
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford President
Marianne C. Sharp First Counselor
Gertrude R. Garff Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Edith S. Elliott
Leone G. Layton
Leone O. Jacobs
Mary G. Judd
Priscilla L. Evans
Blanche B. Stoddard
Velma N. Simonsen
Luella N. Adams
Florence J. Madsen
Evon W. Peterson
Isabel B. Callister
Anna B. Hart
Ann P. Nibley

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Marianne C. Sharp
Editorial Secretary Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 33 SEPTEMBER 1946 No. 9

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
A Message to Teachers Dr. M. Lynn Bennion 579
Fort Lemhi Mission, Idaho Pioneer in Review Dorothy Clapp Robinson 583
Pioneer Stories and Incidents: The Indians and the Mail Route President Amy Brown Lyman 594

FICTION
There Is Still Life Frances C. Yost 590
A Shelter for Their Hearts Maryhale Woolsey 601
Faith Is a Heritage Chapter 6 Christie Lund Coles 607

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 596
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 597
Editorial: Records of Service Marianne C. Sharp 598
Notes to the Field: Ward Relief Society Conferences 599
Bound Volumes 600
United States Savings Bonds President George Albert Smith 600
Annual Report 1945 General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering 611
Notes From the Field General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering 625

LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology: The Relief Society Developed Elder H. Wayne Driggs 631
Visiting Teachers' Messages: Faith President Amy Brown Lyman 635
Work Meeting Sewing: Fitting and Adjusting Patterns and Cutting Work Meeting Committee 636
Literature: America's First War for Freedom Elder Howard R. Driggs 637
Optional Lessons in Lieu of Literature: Faith Elder T. Edgar Lyon 643

POETRY
Autumn Hills Frontispiece Grace Zenor Pratt 577
Three Precious Things Mabel Jones Gabbott 589
Clarence Edwin Flynn 593
Fall Days Are Closing Grace M. Candland 595
Fulfillment Verda P. Bollschweiler 600
His Silences Blanche Kendall McKey 610
Song Margery S. Stewart 630
Autumn Has Spoken Dorothy J. Roberts 647
Heart's Reply Anna Prince Redd 647

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 77,500

AUTUMN HILLS Grace Zenor Pratt It seems but yesterday I walked across the hills And it was summer... But today a soft and purple mist Has crept across their blueness, while The blazing touch of winter's breath Has changed to bright and shining glory The path of summer's death. All this bright splendor I would somehow keep, Like some sweet, cherished dream to hold In pictured memory. There is one hidden secret I should like to know— How autumn hills can make one strangely yearn, Why autumn's magic touches heartstrings so! There are no words to paint these flaming shades, No haunting music to express my need— That autumn's transient beauty may live on Unchanged by time or winter's icy need. I only know when her last, lovely, scarlet leaf Shall flutter by on some unfaltering breath, It is a symbol of some mighty plan, And beauty lives beyond the summer's death. The Cover: "Mouth of the Middle Fork, Salmon River, Idaho." Photograph Courtesy Idaho State Chamber of Commerce VOL. 33, NO. 9 SEPTEMBER 1946 teat Photograph Courtesy Idaho State Chamber of Commerce WILLIAMS CREEK ROAD, NEAR SALMON CITY, IDAHO A Message to Teachers Dr. M. Lynn Bennion Superintendent, Salt Lake City Schools ANY suggestions have been made for improving the quality of teaching in the auxiliary organizations of the Church. A great deal of emphasis has been placed, in recent years, on better teaching methods, but better methods, alone, will not result in effective teaching. Good teachers often succeed with old-fashioned methods, and poor teachers fail to get results with the best methods. Something in addition to better methods is needed. Teachers must be imaginative and have a clear understanding of the purpose underlying their work. What they need, above all, is a sense of challenge, of moral compulsion, as a group who have a mission to perform. 'Teachers who feel this challenge create a zest for learning among their students and thus become superior teachers. Teachers must find their motivation, essentially, from the light within. Each of us, however, can do much to fan the flame. We can make the teachers feel that their work is important—that their ideas count. We can give them the confidence and freedom necessary to do their best work. We can do much to give the teachers the prestige they deserve. Relief Society teachers have already won great prestige in and out of the Church because of what they have stood for. They have played a great role in opening up the minds of women to religion and in helping them aspire to a richer life. Their teachings have included theology, mental and social hygiene, and literature. Their lessons have been built around the real life activities of individuals and groups. They have included the major issues troubling our communities. Let us now ask ourselves the question: How may we improve Relief Society teaching—how make it meet more adequately the needs and demands of our atomic age? The rapid transitions that are taking place in society demand great leadership. Much is at stake. Civilization, as we know it, is actually in the balance. The terrifying task of winning the peace is not only the task of winning back the ground lost through war, but of reaching a new moral summit adequate for the demands of a new day. It will take a spiritual earnestness and conviction manyfold more intense than all our efforts to win the war. It might be likened to the attempt of Pandora to gather into her casket again, the released human ills, for out of the welter of misunderstandings and hates, of wrongs and crime, the world must be brought to a state of mutual faith and confidence. Such a consummation cannot be reached by the improvement of machinery, but only by spiritual power. It is impossible to overstress the fact that the dilemma of man is Page 579 spiritual, nor that this has been long discernible to minds of insight. It was, perhaps, inevitable that the intellectual and social revolt against the norms of decency, the adolescent interest in sex that has moved the literary world, the abrogation of the standards of honesty, the denial of moral values, the contempt for religion which has come to characterize much of our thinking, should reach a grand climax in recurring world wars. These are the fatal genii which the modern Pandora must re-confine in the casket. ONE of the most shocking aspects of recent wars was the revision or abrogation of solemn treaties without notice, and at the whim or advantage of one of the contracting parties. Thus was destroyed the faith which must exist between civilized nations. But the roots of such international unfaith lie deep. Such distrust is based on a deep skepticism. Such faith is essentially faith in righteousness, justice, and truth, as the fundamental realities of human relations. A presumptuous age in its attempt to kill superstition has overshot the mark and has killed faith instead. Superstition still lingers, superstition of the grossest kind. We have only substituted for faith in moral values, faith in the Ouija board, the crystal ball, and the throw of dice. Faith in these does not demand morals, and we have apparently been more anxious to dispose of the sense of moral and spiritual responsibility than we have been to get rid of superstition. We have been very naive to expect the age of science, of organization, and of vitamins, to satisfy souls RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 which can fulfill themselves supremely only through spiritual achievement. As teachers, let us assume that physical survival and the building of a decent world depend directly upon effective teaching, and then determine what can be done about it. Some may say that teaching is too slow, but there is nothing faster or surer than the right kind of instruction. But what is the right kind? It. Is the kind that a good teacher promotes. But what is a good teacher? Is she not one who is developing her students as well as her subject? Is not a good teacher one who promotes goodness? The highest possible achievement of skills, information, and vocation") competency are not all it takes to live successfully. People must have a set of moral and spiritual values firmly rooted in the gospel of Christ, if life is to find its legitimate fulfillment. "Ye shall know the truth and the truth will make you free" (John 8:32). As soon as we have a generation that does not believe in freedom and does net have the moral strength required of freemen, freedom will be lost. Nazi Germany offers a splendid example of what happens when the wrong sort of ideals are instilled into people. How different world events might have been, had their attitudes and ideals been focused on Christianity, implemented by an understanding of what constitutes democratic living. But, has the Church been unconcerned about teaching religious values and in promoting the good life? Indeed it has not. A great and effective work has been done by teachers A MESSAGE TO TEACHERS in the Church. Why, then, is there any real issue about improvement of teaching? The answer is quite clear. In a world which has suddenly learned how to blow itself to bits, goodness must be more directly sought through more effective teaching. Those who say that goodness cannot be taught are talking dangerous nonsense. They interpret teaching as a narrow, lesson memorizing process. In this sense, of course, goodness cannot be taught. But mere memorizing is not teaching. Teaching not only can, but must find its most important duty in changing the minds of people from an egotistic, selfish, materialistic philosophy to an altruistic and idealistic philosophy, that is, it must change the nature of the desire or motive life of people. We must permeate all our teaching with the concept of value. Religious and ethical standards must be brought to bear as bases of judgment upon every possible occasion. Is it right? Is it true? Is it honorable? Is it fair? Is it just? Is it in harmony with the will of God? These questions should become almost automatic. Wisely directed instruction should leave upon the desire-life of the individual the tendency always to gain greater satisfaction from those values termed spiritual; the values which grow with their exercise and sharing. That means that we must do many things more effectively than we have in the past. That is not easy. Why is it not easy? Because we adults are victims of patterns fixed upon us by our own limited experiences, we are inflexible when we should be on 581 a creative search for right solutions to problems. To paraphrase Lincoln, we must disenthrall ourselves from rigid patterns and think and act anew. Our case is new—our day is piled high with new difficulty. Our greatest sin is lethargy—the refusal to become what we might become—to allow the good of today to crystallize—to become a hard mold, carried into tomorrow after it has lost its pertinency. We are complacent in the presence of evil that does not directly affect us. We stop thinking, and our opinions as a result become fixed. We deny the very meaning of life, which is growth by cultivation. RELIGIOUS values cannot be developed independently of national thought, the instrument of intelligence. An elderly gentleman, in attempting to account for the sad deterioration that had taken place in his little home town said: "Dem dat's good ain't able. Dem dat's able ain't good." Goodness, without ability, is a vehicle headed in the right direction, but it has no motive power, and it lacks a skilled driver. Ability, without goodness, is a ruthless mechanism that may jump the track and crush everything in its path. The good life is one "motivated by love and good will and guided by knowledge." The teacher must promote clear thinking. The most important technique of living is the recognition of problems and their solution by thinking which is based on truth. The detection of falsehood, distortion, bias, propaganda, misleading of every kind, and the recognition of 582 truth, whatever its source, is basic to all constructive social functioning. Do our students have the opportunity to think—to put thinking into action, by learning to choose, to evaluate, to discuss, to debate, and to weigh all factors in a situation? Relatively too much attention is being given to mere memorizing, to the neglect of judgment and the power of independent thinking. Teachers need a better background of understanding about people and their individual needs. They need a greater determination to labor at the task with the full backing and support of all of us. This will mean that many teachers will need to extend and broaden their education. Wide reading on current issues of the day is needed, reading critically in an effort to discern truth from error. This does not mean that teachers should have no concern for the past. But it does mean that the great ideas of the past must come alive and become dynamic in the present. History is meaningless unless it has a current application. It is hard, for example, to find an application for these words of Thomas Jefferson: I have sworn upon the altar of the living God eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man. Error is dangerless so long as truth is free to combat it. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 Let us restore to social intercourse that harmony and affection without which liberty and even life itself are but dreary things. Or, the words of Horace Mann, as he took office as secretary of the Massachusetts State Board of Education: The path of usefulness is opened before me—God grant me annihilation of selfishness, a mind of wisdom, a heart of benevolence. Or, his words to a graduating class at Antioch, which words were inscribed on his tomb: Be ashamed to die until you have won some victory for humanity. Have our classes been so dulled and drugged by second-hand text book words that they are out of touch with reality? Is our instruction life-giving? "Man does not live by bread alone." He is a spiritual, as well as a physical being, a creature with a personality and a soul stamped with the imperishable image of God. Good teaching, the kind demanded today—is justified by the degree to which it helps people to develop their spiritual capacities, their qualities of human kindness, their devotion to ideals of truth and justice and beauty in all their relationships. Let us therefore follow after the things that make for peace, and things wherewith one may edify another (Romans 14:19). Fort Lemhi Mission, Idaho CHAPTER IN REVIEW Dorothy Clapp Robinson IDDEN among the rocks and brush in a high valley in East Central Idaho, are some old, old apple trees around which centers one of the most interesting chapters in Latter-day Saint colonization. 'These trees were set out about ninety years ago by members of the Salmon River mission which was established in 1855 and abandoned in 1858. Although of short duration and seemingly a failure, this attempt at colonization left more lasting marks on the face of Idaho than a few antiquated apple trees, or the remnant of a mud wall which still stands. A county, a valley, a mountain range, a mountain pass, a national forest, an Indian reservation, and a tribe of Indians all bear the name given to their fort by those early Latter-day Saint missionaries who reached back into pre-American history for that name. John E. Reese says, "Being twenty-two days in making the journey which was similar in many respects to the exploits of King Limhi, who led a company from the City of Lehi-Nephi to Zarahemla [of Book of Mormon fame] was their journey thither, that they named their fortification for him." The word Limhi was quickly corrupted to Lemhi, and, as such, stands on the geography and in the history of the State of Idaho. The following is given to show how deeply the word is fixed in the thought patterns of the people. The author of this article asked an old pioneer of the State what the Indians called the Lemhi Valley before the Mormons went there. His answer came quickly, "They called it Lemhi. That is an Indian word." Viewed through the softening influence of years, colonization seems a blend of romance and adventure. There may have been adventure in the Lemhi settlement, but there could have been very little romance, for the first settlers were all men. It was in the spring of 1855, only eight years after the first entry of the saints into Salt Lake Valley, that a picked group of twenty-seven men were called to go into the wilds of what is now Idaho to establish a mission among the Lamanites. Contrary to common belief, however, they were not sent specifically to the Salmon River basin. An advance party selected this site. Of these men, Thomas S. Smith, of Farmington, was appointed mission president, and David Moore, mission clerk and historian. The missionaries met near Farmington, and, in May 1855, set their faces north. Each man was required to provide his own transportation and to carry his own equipment and sufficient supplies to last a year. In the caravan there were eleven wagons and forty-six head of oxen, besides the riding horses and some cows. The company traveled north, goPage 583 ing through Malad Valley, over the divide and, eventually, down into Portneuf Canyon and on to the Snake River by means of an old ferry boat near what is now Ferry Butte. They followed along the western banks of the Snake as close as lava, brush, and rocks would permit, until they reached Eagle Rock, now Idaho Falls. There they turned north and west, passed Market Lake, on Birch Creek, and, after crossing the divide, rode at last into the valley that was their rendezvous. Their camp was about three miles from the present town of Tendoy. These colonists may or may not have known that this valley was the birthplace of the immortal Sacajawea and the home of her people, Photograph Courtesy Idaho State Chamber of Commerce the Shoshones. About fifty years before the Latter-day Saints arrived, she had led the Lewis and Clark expedition into the valley on the way to the Pacific Coast, and there she had been reunited with her family. In all likelihood, the colonists knew that the valley was a primitive thoroughfare used by roving bands of Indians, among which were the Bannocks and the Nez Perce. It seems plausible that this fact may have influenced the selection of the site, as the purpose of the missionaries was to convert the Lamanite and to teach him the ways of civilization. Snagg, who was chief of the Shoshones, was either a cousin or a nephew of Sacajawea, and became a great friend of the missionaries. NEZ PERCE INDIANS ON THE LAPWAI RESERVATION, NORTHERN IDAHO 584 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 Photograph Courtesy Idaho State Chamber of Commerce SHOUP, IDAHO, ON THE SALMON RIVER RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 a Photograph Courtesy Tam State Historical Society CABINS BUILT BY THE LATTER-DAY SAINTS AT FORT LEMHI IN 1855 He often stayed with them at the stockade. If the interest of the relatives of the Bird Woman in religion and civilization had not been so fleeting, this story might have had a different ending. However, until late in the year 1857, the Indians and missionaries were on the best of terms. S was always the case with Latter-day Saint colonizers, the men of this company made haste to start farming. They arrived in the valley June 14, and, by the 22d, had planted ten acres of com, peas, and potatoes. Some of the ditches they dug are still in use. Claims have been made that they harvested the first wheat raised in Idaho, but that seems to be a fallacy as the Reverend Spalding, in his mission at the mouth of the Clearwater, had raised wheat prior to this date. The grasshoppers, or crickets, were very numerous that summer of 1855 and, by August, it became evident that there would be little, if any, seed for the next spring. Accordingly, a party of men left for Salt Lake Valley to bring back seed and additional supplies. When these men returned to Fort Lemhi in November of that year, three of them brought their wives back with them, and one, David Moore, brought his daughter Louisa. Thus romance came to this outpost of civilization. Louisa later became the wife of Lewis W. Shurtliff, and old timers tell of her wonderful wedding. In the meantime, there had been a killing frost September 5, which further endangered their supplies. President Smith sent another party to "the settlements" for food and seed. These men returned in early summer, 1856, bringing with them twenty-two more settlers, all men. With all the work of farming and THE LEMHI MISSION, IDAHO stock raising, the men did not forget the purpose for which they had come. A mission school was established, with classes three times a week. Sundays were spent in special services of prayer and song in which the Indians joined freely. Every missionary tried to learn the Shoshone language. Some three or four tried to learn the language by marrying into the tribe. Curiously, this was frowned upon by the parents of the girls, for it is reported they were "not willing.' 'These marriages must not have been successful for, when the settlers returned to Salt Lake Valley, only one Indian wife elected to go along. In May 1857, Brigham Young, with several apostles and a goodly company of friends and relatives of the settlers, visited the colony. Some of the visiting brethren were highly enthusiastic about the country, but it is recorded that Brigham Young Peon — Idaho State Historic 587 expressed his doubts about the wisdom of their having gone so far north. The fort was situated 375 miles northward from Salt Lake City and, with the prevailing modes of transportation, that was a long way. And the settlers were entirely surrounded by Indians. They were advised to build another enclosure, this time for their stock. Until this visit, the farming had been done on a community basis, but afterward, some surveying was done and individual farms laid out. Another fort was built. John E. Reese says it was built of rocks and mud that hardened into "some kind of cement." As a protection from the Indians, the walls were not worth much, for the red men could crouch on the hillside and shoot down into the enclosure. The cabins were much better, for their thick log walls were impervious to bullets and arrows. LEMHI VALLEY, IDAHO Note the log fence and the tall "stock" gate. After returning to Salt Lake, President Young sent north another company of men, which swelled the population of the fort to about one hundred. Several women went with the last company. By the fall of 1857, the colony was in a thriving condition. The crops had been good. Several hundred Indians had been baptized, and pleasant contacts had been made with hunting and exploring parties passing through the valley. There seemed every reason to believe the colonists were there to stay. Chief Snagg and his band of Shoshones often ate and slept at the fort. But, while outwardly peace lay like a blanket over the project, there were various mutterings and stirrings that bulged the blanket here and there, all of which resulted in an open attack against the settlement the morning of February 25, 1858, by a band of Shoshones and Bannocks. The colonists had been warned that an attack was imminent, but as they had little faith in their informer, no preparations for defense had been made. Two men, George McBride and James Miller, were killed; several men were wounded; and most of the cattle were driven away. After three days of intermittent Photograph Courtesy Idaho Chamber of Commerce RANGE CATTLE IN IDAHO 588 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 THE LEMHI MISSION, IDAHO 589 Photograph Courtesy 'Idaho State Historical Society THREE PIONEERS OF LEMHI VALLEY Left to right: John E. Reese; R. B. Herndon; Judge Shurtliff fighting, the missionaries were called to a meeting to determine their course. As a result, two men, B. H. Watts and E. J. Bernard, were sent for help. All this happened at a time when the threat of Johnston's Army lay like a blight against the security of the saints. President Young decided to recall all Mormons living beyond the bounds of Utah Territory. He sent north a company of 150 men to the rescue of the Salmon mission. The men reached the fort, March 21, 1858. The settlers had already made preparations for their return to Utah. It is said that Chief Snagg and his men wept tears when they saw the company leave. The company reached Brigham City April 11, and there disbanded. Thus came to an end the Fort Lemhi attempt to colonize Idaho, but many of the colonists later came back and helped develop other communities. Note: This material has been gleaned from documents and journals in the Idaho State Historical Society, Defenbach's History of Idaho, Beall's History of Southeastern Idaho, from J. A. Harrington, and from articles published in Idaho Daily Statesman. THREE PRECIOUS THINGS Mabel Jones Gabbott Thank God for these three precious things: A needful task to do, a child's Sweet love, an honest heart that sings. There Is Still Life Frances C. Yost gay wind, in sportive play, frisked the high tree tops, and whirled September's leaves of red and gold, to welcome in an Indian summer. Dessie Bartlett, widowed seven years, sat on the step of her back porch. Her three children, like mushrooms, clustered around her. All eyes were on a finished painting Dessie held in her outstretched arms.. "Mother, it's perfect! I never really noticed the beautiful view from our back yard until you painted this picture," LaPrele, age twelve, stated equably. "It's tops, Mom. Why, old Baldy Mountain looks bully! I wonder how he likes his picture taken? He seems so solemn and wise," chuckled Foster, who was more man than boy for all his fourteen years. Then he added seriously, "It'll sure take the blue ribbon at the fair!" "It's awful pretty," spoke up Joyce, the youngest of the three. "Please take it to the fair, Mommie." "It would be the prize winner if I were the judge," LaPrele said with emphasis. "A fair judge studies all entries," laughed Dessie. "But if you children think it's good, we'll just enter it and find out." Dessie beamed on her brood. "It does have good balance, and the perspective is perfect, if I may say so. It is colorful; the little stream and the quaint bridge add a touch, somehow. I might as well put my initials in the corner with ink and call it finished." Page 590 'sobs. "I’ll get the ink right now. Today's the last day to take exhibits to the fair." Joyce raced into the house. "I’ll write it in the house!" Dessie called. Joyce, who was already out of earshot, didn't hear her mother. Before anyone knew what was happening, she was back with the inkwell and pen. At the door she ran into Foster. "Look out, Sis! Grab that ink!" Foster shouted. It was too late. The glass container bounced out of Joyce's tiny hand, over Dessie's shoulder, and broke. A pool of jet black ink splashed over the newly finished oil painting. "The picture! It's ruined! Mother!" wailed LaPrele. "Gosh, Mom, can't we do something quick? Won't ink wipe off?" Foster gasped. "I'm afraid not, Son. You see I] just finished touching it up with fresh oils. It would be just a smudge," Dessie stated calmly, then despair closed her throat. Joyce, realizing the great catastrophe she had caused, sobbed brokenheartedly. Dessie, who had laid the ruined painting on the lawn at her feet, put an arm around Joyce to quiet her "I didn't have a chance of winning anyway, Joyce dear. Why, Mrs. Swartz studied art in the East and she is entering a beautiful scene of Niagara. Then VonVleet, the high school art teacher, has a lovely apple blossom sketch. = Mother Oh, THERE IS STILL LIFE doesn't care, really. We'll go to the fair just the same, and you kiddies will probably all get ribbons. How's that?" Dessie wiped the tears from Joyce's eyes. Inwardly, Dessie was _heartsick. She had worked at odd moments all summer to perfect her painting. She felt certain it might have been a prize winner. All during the day she found herself fighting a hard battle to conceal her deep disappointment. For the children must never know how much entering the art exhibit had meant to her. She busied herself, supervising the children as they prepared their entries for the fair. LaPrele pressed her 4-H dress and made certain there were no cat's whiskers sticking out on the French seams. Foster brushed the fur on the two rabbits he was entering. Joyce picked and trimmed the largest, firmest head of lettuce, and washed and bunched carrots from her 4-H garden. When the children left in the afternoon to make their entries, Dessie could hold back her disappointment no longer. She flung herself into the deep, soft chair that had been Roger's. She had thought all day if she could only be alone for a good cry, her pent-up feelings would wash away. Now, somehow, tears would not come. Roger's dear old chair, vacant so many years, seemed to put its arms around her. Dessie's mind, designed for far vision, chose for the moment to dwell on an autumn day seven years past.....air was tangy as cider. Frozen roses hung heavy on their stems. The sun was brassy; even the chirping of the sparrows had an 591 autumnal sound. Dessie stood by the door, dustpan in one hand, broom in the other. Roger had come in unexpectedly. He stood in the doorway unnoticed, until he placed a loving arm about her waist and released her hold on the cleaning utensils. "You've worked long enough today. How about doing something lasting?" "For instance?" Dessie queried, half ashamed to be caught by the one she loved with her hair resembling damp untwined string, rather than the bubblelike cloud of curls she managed to acquire when Roger came home at the usual hour. "Why don't you spend the afternoon painting me a pretty picture of something?" Roger said succinctly. "For instance?" Dessie again questioned, as her mind raced on to the many household tasks she had planned to do during the day. "Flowers!" Roger answered. "My darling, haven't you noticed? The frost is on the pumpkin. There isn't a flower to be had. And, besides, if I wash the kitchen curtains, as I had planned, you will be able to see more scenery than I can capture with a brush," laughed Dessie, modestly. "I want you to paint today, Des-. Sie, I mean it. If I find something suitable, will you paint it today? Please, today!" Roger's voice was pleading. "I’ll make you a wager. If you can find anything around here fit to paint, I'll do my best. In the meantime, please, may I gather up this debris before the wind whips it all through the house again?" Roger had gone out of the house, and came back in a moment with two large dried onions. He moved a square table into the light from the bay window, placed a clean white doily upon the table, a black bowl on the doily, and there he placed the two dried onions, as if they had just rolled themselves up near the bowl. "Dessie, here's the easel all set up, and your paintbox and everything. Just leave your work, I'll... I'll just sit here and watch you." So Dessie dabbed in her oil paints all afternoon, hardly looking up from her easel. It turned out to be their last afternoon spent together, for Roger had taken a sudden heart attack in the night, which had proved fatal. Quiet, home-loving Roger, who had borne the pain from his heart silently through the years, never allowing even ill health to upset their last hours. Dessie recalled the picture of the onions, which, she felt certain, was the poorest type of art. It lacked lovely, bright colors. 'There she had sat, fiddling with a brush, while Roger's very hours were numbered. Dessie had buried the hateful onion picture deep in a trunk in the attic, and life had become as dust and ashes without Roger. Always, she had put on a false front of contentment while her very heart was breaking within her. Now she heard the children's voices. Laying away her feelings on a secret shelf in her mind, she welcomed her children cheerfully. "Everything ready for the fair tomorrow?" "Everything, Mom!" the three chorused. THE day broke clear and bright, with a pungent scent of autumn in the air. Dessie Bartlett and her three children set out early for the fairgrounds. "I suppose you'll want to see your exhibits first?" Dessie questioned, gay asa lark. "Gosh, Mom, an' miss the horse races? We can see em after they're judged," spoke up Foster, quickly. They took in the races, rode the Ferris wheel, and the whirligigs, bought hamburgers and salted peanuts at the concessions, and were munching large twirls of cotton candy when they finally visited the exhibits, late in the afternoon. When Dessie saw the art display she dropped her cotton candy. Her knees seemed fluid at the back. For there, between Mrs. Swartz's Niagara painting and VonVleet's apple-blossom scene, was her own simple, still-life portrayal of the two dried onions! Surely there was a mistake, for a blue ribbon rippled bravely from the picture frame. Dessie bent over to read the writing on a little white card. This still-life painting is awarded first place for excellent contour, perspective, color combination, and its aesthetic quality. Dessie's heart fluttered in her throat. She looked deeply into the faces of her children. In amazement she asked, "How did this get here?" Joyce, the youngest, chose to be spokesman. "LaPrele knew it was in the trunk in the attic. We brought the picture over and entered it for you, Mommie. We knew you'd win if you just had a picture!" Dessie felt her heart sink back into her breast. She looked at the 592 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946 THERE Is STILL Life picture as if for the first time. There was a contrast of colors, even though they were not vivid reds, blues, and greens! The round bowl, as well as the square table, somehow possessed an artist third dimension! Even the skin on the onions was natural! As her eyes drank in the worth of her own creative art, she felt that Roger was there beside her. Dessie knew, as she gazed at her picture, that as long as she could look upon this very painting, Roger would be there, his presence warming the cockles of her heart. “There is still life!" she murmured. UNTIL Clarence Edwin Flynn None knows how lovely is the door That in the evening swings. Until it welcomes him no more From daily journeyings. None knows how lovely is a gate That opens easily, Till unresponsive hinges wait In silence, drearily. None knows how lovely are the hands That touch him in the gloam. The voice of love that understands, Till he must stand alone. Give thanks, and make each hour that goes, A golden memory; So steadily the river flows On to the silent sea. Pioneer Stories and Incidents THE INDIANS AND THE MAIL ROUTE President Amy Brown Lyman (This is the third in a series of true pioneer incidents to be published by The Relief Society Magazine in honor of the 1947 Utah Centennial celebration.—Ed.] N interesting incident, with a dramatic sequence, which happened away back in 1862 in the life of her pioneer husband, was often related by Sister Elizabeth Caine Crismon, who, for ten years, was a member of the General Board of Relief Society. Charles Crismon, Jr., her husband, crossed the plains with his parents in 1847, when he was but three years old. He grew up with the new country, going through the varied trials and experiences of the western pathfinder. As a young man, he was ambitious, energetic, and a willing worker, undertaking and carrying through successfully many difficult and dangerous tasks. In his early teens he drove a herd of sheep across the plains from the Missouri River to Salt Lake City. With his father and brother, George, he was active in the development of the resources of both Utah and the San Bernardino district of California. They, later, fostered many pioneer projects and became successful businessmen and industrialists. Charles Crismon, Jr., was also brave, public-spirited, _ patriotic, and ever ready to serve his country in time of need. This was demonstrated when, at the age of eighteen, he volunteered his services to the Government to help protect the western mail route from the Indians, who seemed bent on destroying Page 594 not only the stations, but also those who operated them. In the skirmishes connected therewith, a number of men, women, and children lost their lives. It was in the spring of 1862 that President Lincoln called for volunteers from Utah to carry on this hazardous undertaking, and young Crismon readily enlisted for the service, leaving Salt Lake on short notice for headquarters at Chimney Rock, Wyoming. He was a member of the company of Lot Smith, that brave and courageous leader and frontiersman, who, thirty years later, lost his life at the hands of Navajo Indians in Arizona, while helping to defend a Latter-day Saint colony there. Many years after, late in his life, Brother Crismon, who was in frail health, made frequent visits to California. One summer day during one of these visits, while he and Sister Crismon were resting in the sunshine in Golden Gate Park, they made the acquaintance of a very interesting and congenial woman who sat in a chair near them and engaged them in conversation, 'They soon found that they had much in common, all being western pioneers. Brother Crismon, in a reminiscent mood, related some of his early-day experiences, and among them he recalled the following story connected with the mail route expedition. PIONEER STORIES AND INCIDENTS He told that on one occasion, when members of Lot Smith's company were approaching a certain mail station which they feared was in danger, they discovered that the station had already been attacked by the Indians and was all ablaze. As they neared the spot, the Indians fled and the soldiers noticed that a little child was being carried away by them. The soldiers hurried on, and, although they were not successful in rescuing this unfortunate little one, they put forth desperate efforts to do so. They discovered that the agent and his wife, the parents of the child, and her half-grown 595 brother had not only been scalped by the Indians, but their lives had been taken. Throughout the narration of this incident by Brother Crismon, the new-found friend listened with great intensity to every detail of the story, and, at the end, showed unmistakable signs of emotion, as she exclaimed, "And I was that very child!" Then she added, "I was held by the Indians for several years, until some of my relatives who had searched diligently for me, obtained clues, and then succeeded in rescuing me." FALL DAYS ARE CLOSING IN Grace M. Candland The misty canyon's blue is on the land, The stubble fields lie sere and brittle dry; The crickets chant their nightly symphony; Wild geese in wedge formation chart the sky The air is cool and hints of coming frost, A two-point moon glides slowly to the west, A family of birds we used to know Have gone and left their tattered nest. Last night the mountain oak showed signs of age, Today the sumac leaves are lined with red, The junipers now hold an ample store Of gay vermilion berries overhead. There is a touch of sadness in the fall, But let not brooding ever be a part Of all this coloring and quiet charm Now come to soothe, relax, and warm the heart. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 1 5, 1886 "For THE Rights OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women of ALL NATIONS" UTAH: Undoubtedly, today there is no other place, be it state, territory or country, under the broad canopy of heaven, which is so universally observed, as the subject of this sketch. Utah is talked about, written of and lectured upon, until, really, there remain but few, if any, new ideas concerning her, to be formed or expressed. So rigorously is this subject handled, both by friends and enemies, especially the latter, in all classes of society, that we scarcely find time to measure one point, or sound the force of one argument in relation to it, before something else is thrust upon us for consideration.— Hyacinth HANNAH T. KING: Our readers will very likely have noticed that for some time past there have been no contributions from the pen of our gifted sister, Hannah T. King, and possibly they have wondered why she has not written. For years she has been a regular contributor, scarcely a number of the paper having been issued without one or more of her articles appearing, but her health has failed, and she is no longer able to write, much as she would like to do so.—Editorial: RELIEF SOCIETY NOTES: Missionary and Indian donations are included in charitable disbursements. Wheat is computed by bushels. Presidents and secretaries are requested to attach full name and address to reports. LETTER OF APPRECIATION: Hints on household management, home government, the proper training of our human twigs, cookery, hygienic notes and pleasant Paragraphs are all very acceptable in a woman's companion. May the talent of Zion's daughters be fostered and improved by cultivation and demonstrated in the pages of The Woman's Exponent. May it indeed be a true representative of the faith, culture, intelligence and heroism of the noblest... And most self-sacrificing women in the world. —A Friend TEMPE, ARIZONA: Our ward and society are alive to the interest of the Latter-day work, and we are trying to live up to the requirements thereof.—J. D. Wilson HOUSEHOLD HINTS: To clean a bottle, put into it some kernels of corn, and a tablespoonful of ashes; fill it half full of water, and after a vigorous and thorough rinsing, the bottle will be found as good as new. NOTES ABOUT WOMEN: Jenny Lind's daughter, who is spoken of as possessing a marvelous voice, is coming to this country some time next winter. The biography of Queen Victoria, which Barnett Smith has had in hand for some time, will be published this month in one volume of 400 pages. It will contain several portraits. NOTES AND NEWS: Oliver Wendell Holmes, who has received no end of courtesy and good-will abroad, has come home safe and sound, having kept his seventy-seventh birthday on shipboard. Page 596 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon HEN American women, after gaining suffrage, assumed their place and responsibility in local and national affairs, Charlotte Perkins Gilman, an outstanding feminist leader, wrote these lines: Not for herself, though sweet the thought of freedom, Not for herself, though dear the new-won power, But for the child who needs a noble mother, For the whole people needing one another, Comes woman to her hour. RS. AMY BROWN LYMAN, former General President of the Relief Society, is the new president of the Utah chapter, National Order of Women Legislators. While serving in the Utah House of Representatives in 1923, Mrs. Lyman promoted the measure which empowered the regents of the University of Utah, and the board of trustees of the Utah Agricultural College to assist faculty members in these institutions to procure old-age annuities. She also sponsored the Sheppard-Towner maternity and child-welfare bill. Mrs. Lyman was official delegate to fourteen national conventions of the Council of Women. She served for thirty-five years on the Relief Society General Board. To help mothers who occasionally need tenders for their young children, and likewise to help the tenders, the Parent-Teacher Association of Richland, Washington, organized girls into a self-governing body, the Junior Cadets. Making rules to safeguard both the mothers' and their own interests, they blacklist undesirable homes, and discipline girls who raid refrigerators or into drawers. When mothers complained that company distracted girls' attention from their duties, the Cadets ruled out the company. ISS BLAIR NILES has written a beautiful book—an addition to the fascinating "Rivers of America" series. In The James, from Iron Gate to the Sea, she brings to life Pocahontas, Washington, Poe, Patrick Henry, and Jefferson. MBs. DORIS BARNES, a widow, has been elected mayor of Wrangell, Alaska. She is believed to be the first woman mayor in Alaska. RA PATE STEWART, wife of Colonel Robert W. Stewart, United States Army Air Corps, is the author of Pages From the Book of Eve, recently published by the Naylor Company, San Antonio, Texas. This fictional autobiography presents a rich background of western scenes and introduces a courageous and charming family. Mrs. Stewart served as a missionary in the Eastern States and is the mother of five children. Page 597 EDITORIAL 

VOL. 33 SEPTEMBER 1946 NO. 9 Records of Service S each new Relief Society season approaches, there appears before every woman member of the Church a new horizon for her individual development and a new opportunity for her growth through unselfish service. In almost every community in the Church today, however, there are numbers of women who are not: active members of Relief Society and whose time is not fully occupied with other Church duties. While Relief Society needs the support of all Church women, these inactive women need Relief Society even more. They need the satisfaction that comes to one who helps the less fortunate; they need the knowledge which comes from gospel study and discussion; they sorely need the close companionship of Latter-day Saint women who are constantly growing through a continual giving of self. Nor should women wait until their children ate grown before affiliating with the Society. If each girl in the Church would become active in Relief Society as a bride, her married life would be enriched, and she would carry into her everyday living an understanding and a spirit which would aid her in establishing and maintaining a home true to Latter-day Saint principles. This mortal existence is a time of probation, a time of testing, and, once the shades of this life are drawn, there is no returning to add to one's accomplishments. There Page 598 will be time, however, for regrets over wasted hours. 'There will be time for heartaches over misdeeds or omitted good deeds. There will be time to weigh the blessings which might have come from service in Relief Society against social functions or other activities. She who preferred to stand alone here, asking no help and offering none, may stand 'alone there, a benefactor to no one. Her earthly record will be closed. Some records will look thin and tattered, soiled and smudged. Others' records will reveal a bright, brave page here and there, fading into an indolent scrawl. There will be some records, however, well-bound and filled with pages of indelible beauty glowing with the small, daily acts of helpfulness and kindness, radiating a spirit of love written in unselfish and tireless devotion to the Church. Add to these pages of service for others, the greatest chapter of all for a woman an immortal accounting of true motherhood and that woman will have made an everlasting record of righteousness, one in which she may rejoice in the times to come. For, from service given beyond and above one's own affairs, will come an added, rich reward. May each woman in the Church determine, this coming season, to write a record of imperishable beauty, and encourage her sisters around her to do the same.. M. C. S. Notes to the field. Ward Relief Society Conferences, November 3, 1946 CONTINUING the plan first adopted in 1942 for auxiliaries to hold special meetings and annual conferences on fast Sunday evenings, the Relief Society has again been assigned the evening of fast day in November. Fast day in November this year will occur November 2, and the General Board recommends that this evening be used for the anual ward Relief Society conference.
Ward Relief Society presidents may therefore arrange with their respective bishops for holding meetings on the evening of fast day in November. This is a most favorable Sunday on which to hold the ward Relief Society Conference.
It is recommended:
1. That each ward conference be attended by a representative of the stake board who should be present at both the officers' meeting and the general session.
2. That each conference consist of two meetings:
a. An officers' meeting to be attended by the ward executive officers, special workers and class leaders, the ward bishop or his representative, and the visiting stake board member.
b. A general session for all Relief Society members and for the general membership of the ward.
The purposes of the officers' meeting are to discuss problems confronting the ward Relief Society; and to provide opportunity for the stake board member to evaluate the condition of the ward Society; and to advise, instruct, and stimulate the ward officers. In order to accomplish the purposes of the meeting, some stakes prepare a questionnaire or present and discuss data from the last annual report. At least one hour should be allowed for this meeting and, in some instances, a longer period may be required. The time for holding the officers' meeting is optional with wards, but should be at a time convenient for the visiting stake board member and bishop. For example, this meeting may be held immediately preceding the general session, as heretofore suggested, the previous evening, or at some other time convenient for the bishop and visiting board member. This officers' meeting, held in connection with the ward conference, may constitute the monthly ward preparation meeting for the month in which the conference is held.
In order to ensure a large attendance at the general session of the conference, it is recommended that advance announcement of the meeting be made in Relief Society and other ward gatherings. Relief Society members, particularly, should be urged to attend.
A suggestive program for use at ward conferences will be sent to ward and stake presidents in bulletin form. Page 599 Bound Volumes THOSE desiring to have their 1945 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound, may do so through the office of the General Board, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. The cost of cloth binding, including index, is $1.75. I at United States Savings Bonds y= the war period many people have manifested their patriotism and wisdom by purchasing Government Bonds. In many cases the Bonds are still being held and are earning interest for the holder. This investment has been a blessing to many people and what they have saved will be useful to them in the future. Some individuals, however, are disposing of their holdings and spending their money for unnecessary things, and if hard times come, they may find themselves unable to meet their obligations.... If those who have purchased Government Bonds will hold them and gain the benefit that results from possessing them, they will be wiser than if they dispose of their holdings and squander their substance. Surely we have nothing more secure in the way of an investment than Government Bonds. Excerpts from a statement made by President George Albert Smith for the United States Savings Bonds Division Utah FULFILLMENT Verda P. Bollschweiler If you count wealth in worldly goods, I'm poor, I must confess, But a hearth with loved ones gathered round Is a treasure I possess. My time is spent in humble tasks For those I love and who love me, And children's laughter in my home Is like a symphony. To teach some little ones to walk The path that Jesus trod, Can thrill my soul with ecstasy? A paean to my God. To try to ease a neighbor's pain, And wipe her children's tears away; To do my bit in time of need; These are the things that fill my day. To keep a home where those I love Can turn with joy when day is spent. Oh, I am rich beyond compare? A woman who is well content. 600 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1946 A Shelter for Their Hearts Maryhale Woolsey MADGE had known it would M come, known that the storm must break. It could only be a matter of time time, and a final inciting incident. And there seemed nothing she could do about it. Vaguely she blamed herself... And, yet, she knew that if anyone was to blame, it was Coralee's mother. For, after all, Coralee was a younger edition of Carol Santley, gaily thoughtless and selfish and irresponsible. Carol always had played the pretty martyr to her babyish golden haired daughter, bemoaning the insufficiency of the annuity her late husband had provided her which, with any capable management at all, would have been ample for the comfort of both. Carol was accustomed to deposit her child, now and again, with relatives or friends, for times varying from an afternoon to a couple of weeks or more, so that she could go away fora "rest." Still, Coralee adored her mother, and was evidently bent on following in her footsteps. Coralee's and Link's had been one of those swift, unconsidered, wartime romances. Link had been barely nineteen, Coralee not yet seventeen, when they had decided to be married before Link went into the service. And, if Madge and Ken Walters had had misgivings at their son's choice of a wife, they had not had the heart, at such a time, to voice them. Carol, suddenly relieved of responsibility for Coralee, following her marriage to Link, promptly found a romance for herself and went off gaily honeymooning to Mexico. There, in a small seaside town, she and her new husband found Carol's annuity sufficient for two, and there they remained. And Coralee liked living as a guest at the home of Link's parents. And so it had begun. At first, Madge hadn't minded at all. Coralee was lovable and cuddlesome, and her presence relieved the deadly quiet of the house after Link had gone away. 'Then, after awhile, there was the baby, Tad. He was round and pink and adorable, and Coralee worshipped him and turned over to Madge the less attractive duties pertaining to his care. Coralee could never achieve the preparation of Tad's formula without burning her fingers, or breaking a bottle, or spilling something; so next day she'd beg prettily, "Would you mind, Mother Walters fixing his food this time? I'm so nervous about it, I just know I’ll have another accident if I try!" Finally, Madge, on her own initiative, took over making the formula, finding it more convenient and time-saving to do so than to be interrupted in her own work at inopportune times. With the baby's laundry, Coralee would dawdle over it and get hopelessly befuddled among wet heaps of shirts and nighties and didies, and waste precious soap. She might then be called to the telephone by one of her girl friends, to further delay the program. And Madge, in desperation Page 601 would finish the washing-or find her kitchen impossible to work in when she was ready to start dinner preparations. Those were the things that had first begun to irk Ken. "Can't the girl do anything?" he growled. "Leave her to it. I'm not having you imposed upon any more!" A couple of times he spoke his mind to Coralee, and she wept. Then Ken would be embarrassed and ashamed, and, in two days, things would be back where they had been before. Tad was almost three when Link, at last, came home to stay. He was miraculously whole and_ sound, miraculously like the boy who'd gone away except for that older, grave look, deep in his eyes. And Coralee didn't notice that, it seemed. To Coralee, Link was exactly as he had been four years ago, carefree, eager to dance and play, go riding in the car, to consume hot dogs and ice cream at wayside stands. HOSE first weeks, Madge and Ken were more than willing to relieve the young couple of parental cares. 'They were eager for Link to have a period of rest, of fun and freedom. But later, after Link? always happiest when tinkering with the "innards" of automobiles got a mechanic's job in a big garage? then his mother and father expected that the young people would think about a home for themselves. And when the idea didn't seem to occur to them, Ken took Link aside one evening and rather pointedly made the suggestion. Madge guessed what had happened when she discovered certain new wrinkles of puzzlement between Link's eyebrows. Then they began, really, to learn about the housing shortage, which had formerly been a phrase they read of in the newspapers and heard in other people's conversations. It hadn't meant a great deal to them. Now, suddenly, it was a very real, a personal, and individual menace. The friction in the Walters household as in many another home grew and grew, as week after week went by, and Link and Coralee didn't find a home. Link wanted a house, but Coralee was all for an apartment, a hotel apartment preferably, with conveniences and "services"... None such was available, especially to a couple with a small boy. The few vacancies they did find, Coralee rejected. One was "a smelly place," another "too drab for words," still another "too impossible," in one way or another. Time passed and Link had been home seven months. There was-a grimness around Ken's mouth that Link seemed to watch furtively and turn away from. Coralee still played around, going to matinees with girl friends, or alone; spending hours shopping for "wacky" hats, nylons, toys for Tad, shirts for Link. And, when Link would happen to get home before Coralee did and find Madge tending Tad bringing in his newly laundered, small clothes, or ironing them then Link would go around looking worried and angry and sullen. Not infrequently, he and Coralee would have a quarrel; but Coralee did not mend her ways. The last straw came when Tad ruined Ken's choicest peonies. The plants were large and beautiful, and Ken had made plans to enter the 602 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SEPTEMBER 1946 A SHELTER FOR THEIR HEARTS lee had Played with Tad out in the back yard, letting him dig "in the nice, soft dirt." Madge heard them come in, heard Coralee chatter gay baby talk in the kitchen while she gave Tad his noon meal of canned junior foods, Then, all at once, Coralee had come to "T''ve put Tad down for his nap, Mother. I'm going to run down to Jean's for a few minutes to see her new suit. I'll not be gone an hour, but I thought I'd better let you now," Just like that, Madge thought, too listless even to feel resentful. She Sot up, wrapped herself in a warm to be and went to the kitchen to get a bowl of hot soup, sighing at the kitchen disarray as she went weakly back to bed. A little later, she fell asleep, and, when she awakened, it was to hear Ken driving past the windows. The house was ominously quiet. Remembering, Madge hurried to look for Tad. Eis crib was empty. She heard Link's coupe stop in front of the house, and a shout from Ken, behind. Madge hastened to the kitchen door, and from there she Tad was standing by the peony bed, his face upturned to Ken's in bewilderment and fright. The hacked buds and stems of the peonies lay scattered on the ground at his feet: his chubby hands stil] grasped his toy hoe. Ken's face was purple with Tage. After that one angry outburst, he seemed to have turned 603 speechless, the drive, and Coralee came running behind him. Thought, all the players perfectly cued for a climactic scene. Spoke, Daddy, it's Just a shame. | ty Tad?" Link said, "Where have you been, Coralee?" "At Jean's, darling. I didn't mean to be so long?" "You mean, you left Tad with Mom, when she Was so sick?" "I only meant to be away a few minutes?" Ken snorted, "Few minutes! You've no more idea of time than? than that kid has of gardening! Nor of responsibility of any kind." He glanced suddenly towards the house, saw Madge in 'the doorway, and choked into silence. "I’m sorry," Madge said. "I went to sleep. Tad must have climbed out of his bed..." "You were entitled to sleep," Ken. Answered her, his lips grim. Coming you feeling?" "Better, dear," Madge said, dreading the next few minutes, for Link had picked up Tad and was following Ken into the house, by way of the kitchen which was, frankly, a mess! Coralee came after, just as Ken, looking around Said to Madge, "You go back to bed. We'll take cate of this," She went, hearing Link's incredulous, "But, honey! Couldn't you even wash up the breakfast things?" And Coralee's plaintive, "Darling, I meant too, Really I did. But I had to tend Tad all morning?" "Tad's Gramma,' Ken - said, "tends him and gets her work done, too!" "I know. She's wonderfully efficient, isn't she?' Coralee spoke with wistful admiration. "I never hope to be half as smart about? things." Sarcastically, Ken said, "I guess you never will be, if you never begin to try. But you'd better start to begin, night now. Tad's Gramma is through being your baby tender, see? When a couple start getting a family, they should think of of a place for it." "Dad," Link began, "we've been looking for a place?" And Coralee interrupted with, "Just as soon as we can find something suitable?" "'Something suitable!" Ken snapped. "Has it ever occurred to you that my wife and I might like 'something suitable,' also, and that we have priority here?" Madge was sliding in between the cool sheets of her bed. The electric silence seemed to reach through the house, to follow her into this room; the air seemed to prickle with it. After what seemed a long time, she heard Link say, "I see your point, Dad. You're dead right, too. We should take what we can get... And we will. Soon. Coralee, find a couple of aprons. Right now, we'll start on these dishes." Link took the next day off from his work, and he and Coralee went house hunting, taking Tad along. Before noon, they were back. Coralee's face was unhappy; her eyes were red, and tears had streaked her cheeks with mascara. "We found a house, Mom," Link said. "Folks just moving out. It's out at the edge of town, on Knowlton Drive. Not much, but?" "Oh, it's awful!" Coralee began to cry again. "Mother Walters, it's a horrible place that nobody nice would have! I'll be ashamed to be seen in it to have our friends see us there!" "It'll be a roof over our heads," Link said, "and it will give us a chance to be adults, instead of irresponsible kids." "I never, never,' Coralee stated, "could take care of it all by myself. And Link says we can't afford a housekeeper even if we could find one." "Darling," Link told her sarcastically, "I wasn't bad at K. P. At times. If it's two babies I've got, instead of a wife and one baby, I guess I can make out somehow." "You're horrid to me!" Coralee cried, and ran away to sob on her pillow. INK confided to his mother details regarding the "find." "It is shabby and run-down," he confessed. "Rather rough tenants it seems to have had; I don't blame old Harlow for not wanting to do any fixing up. "Take it or leave it,' he said." "Anson Harlow," Madge nodded. "Yes, he'd be like that, knowing some desperate family would take it as it is." "Broken windows," Link went on, "broken old stove in the kitchen, and goodness knows what the furnace is like. It doesn't look good to me! But we'll only need to use it for a few months. We'll have to buy furniture, of course." He called, "Coralee! We might 604 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1946 A SHELTER FOR THEIR HEARTS as well do a little shopping this afternoon, want to?" Coralee came back, somewhat cheered. "Link, let's buy a glass topped table, and one of those corner whatnots and some lovely figurines to put in it!" "T hate to be a wet blanket, honey," Link said. "But we'd better start with the necessities; we haven't much cash, you know, and there's a limit to our credit." "But Jean and Ed have?" "Jean," Link said, impatiently, "worked all the time Ed was gone, Coralee, and she banked every cent of her allotment, and more out of her own salary. That makes it simpler for them, now." "But, Link!" | Coralee looked hurt. "I couldn't work, could I? Having Tad, and?" She turned appealingly to Madge. "Tad's worth three bank accounts," Madge said hastily. "Link isn't complaining; he's simply stating facts. You and Link will have to start, as he says, with essentials." Ken, upon learning what had developed, looked thoughtful. After dinner he went away somewhere by himself, and when, shortly after his return, a telephone call came for Link, Madge had an idea Ken had been up to something. The caller was Anson Harlow. He'd decided, he said, that if Link would sign a year's lease for the small house, he'd repair the broken windows, put in a new range, and in the fall would see that the furnace was in good order. Link agreed. Coralee wailed, "Oh, Link! A year! In that hovel? I-?I just couldn't bear it!" Link gave her a queer, long look ?almost, Madge thought, the look 605 he might have given a stranger whose behavior had displeased him. When he spoke, his tone was icy. "Sorry, Coralee. Tad and I think we'll make out all night. We suppose we'll have a lot of things to learn, of course. You can learn along with us, if you care to." For once Coralee seemed unable to turn on either tears or charm. She just sat. Madge's heart ached for them all. What would happen to them, she wondered, thinking of the numerous war-wed couples rushing through divorces; of the little children, hurt and bewildered. No... No! She cried in her heart. Not Link... Not Tad... Not even Coralee... For Coralee did love Link! But? what would happen! They moved to the small house a week later. They had bought a good rug, dull, soft blue, for their living-room; a sofa and chairs, deep cushioned and comfortable, in brocade of rose and gold-beige. Coralee's colors, and they were lovely, but they turned sickly in the shabby setting of the room, where darkened, streaked wallpaper in a heavy floral pattern, and nondescript brown woodwork were depressingly evident. Even the tall, old, mirrored mantel had been painted that dull deep brown; it towered grimly over everything like an evil spirit. In the kitchen, long ago, the walls and woodwork had been painted a "serviceable" dark gray, the ceiling a lighter gray. Coralee's blithely selected chrome and red leatherette breakfast set wouldn't have been so bad there, except that the linoleum was checkered tan and green, with lines of orange. Madge 'groaned when she saw it, but Ken said, "It's their indigestion, I guess. They'll have to find the cure for it or endure it." Madge had wanted to help the youngsters get settled, but was too weak after her illness, and Ken forbade her doing any extra work at all. In fact, he found a business trip to the Coast a sudden and urgent necessity, and insisted that Madge should go along with him. MACE and Ken were away for a month. On their second day back home, they had an early dinner and drove out "to see how the kids were making out." Link met them at the door. "Well, if it isn't the gadabouts!" he greeted them... Adding in a slightly embarrassed manner, "We'd sort of hoped you'd not show up for a few more days. But come in? we're almost ready for you, anyway!" They stepped inside and began to see his meaning. Coralee, in a pair of paint-besmeared old slacks, and with her head tied in a gay bandanna, greeted them from atop a stepladder at the farthest window. "What have you done?" Madge exclaimed with incredulous pleasure as she looked around. "Is this the same place, or isn't it?" Ken said. "Did you two uh inherit a mint or just rob one, or? what?" For gone was the garish wallpaper, gone the depressing brown woodwork. The walls were restful spaces of clear pale gray-blue that seemed to recede and enlarge the room. Over creamy white window frames hung the gay new drapes, whose colors repeated those of the furniture and brightened the whole effect; everything seemed charmingly right. Link and Coralee were laughing almost boisterously in their pride. "A fortune is what we came into, all right!" Link agreed. "A smart wife... Being more valuable than rubies or whatever the saying is! I know what it means, anyway!" he finished. The look in his eyes was something at which to rejoice. "I never dreamed I could do? things like I've been doing," Coralee said happily. "And Link he's not half bad, himself." With significant, relieved glances at each other, Madge and Ken followed through the doorway into a vision of gleaming new white enamel-finished cabinets in the kitchen. '"Where's Tad?" Ken asked. "Out in back. We've fenced him in," Link said. "Come, see our young man at work!" Tad had heard their voices. He stood expectantly just inside his small play yard, and when they appeared, he began to jump up and down. Amid laughter, Ken remarked, "The kid's got the right idea." Disregarding his good clothes, he went over and knelt in the sand beside the boy. Watching, Madge put her arm around Coralee's shoulders. The girl drew closer in quick response. "You know, Mother," she confided, "this is a kind of a victory, isn't it? What we've done here, I mean... Link and I. We're so? happy, doing things together!" Madge thought to herself, that is marriage, Coralee. But she only said, "It's the together-ness that does it, dear. That's the important thing." The rest she left unsaid; they would discover it themselves, one of these days.... 606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1946 - Faith Is a Heritage Christie Lund Coles CHAPTER 6 Synopsis: Enid Drage, widow of Tom Drage, killed in a factory accident, feels a little strange in the small town where she is going to teach. She takes her small daughter to school the first day and feels a certain resentment on the part of the teacher. She is sure, later, that the teacher is not being fair with her child. She writes her a letter, then decides to pray about the matter. Her eyes to see the beautiful September sunlight streaming through the small east window. She yawned and stretched herself, feeling that it was good to be alive. The heartache of the night before was like dew that had disappeared in warmth and light. She slipped out of bed, picked up the envelope, and tore it into small pieces, letting them fall into the wastepaper basket. Three days later she was sitting at her desk, just as she had been that first day, when she saw Sharon coming through the door. Only now her face was alight, her eyes shining. "Mommie," she called gaily, coming into the room, running toward her mother, "Mommie!" "What is it, darling?" Enid asked her, her own heart filling with joy at the sight of her. Sharon was neat her now and she cried, "What do you think? Miss Hare came up to me today and put her arms around me and said, "You lovely little girl' " Enid choked. Now, there was no need to hold back the tears. Tears T HE next morning, Enid opened of joy, even tears of grief, were a purification. When she had let them fall profusely, she dried her eyes again and managed to say, "You see, I told you. She only needed to know you." She didn't add _ that prayer had helped. But someday she would tell her daughter.  Everything seemed right, and the days passed swiftly. Winter came and passed. Soon more years had gone. Incredible as it seemed, Sharon was first in junior high... And then in high school. Miss Nobbitt's health was failing, and the doctor told her she would have to be careful of her heart. Enid tried to watch over her as much as possible, but she was a hard patient to wait on. One cold, winter night, Enid stood in her landlady's kitchen, making her some chicken soup. Miss Nobbitt insisted upon coming out every few minutes to see how it was going. Finally, Enid said, "Now, listen here, young woman. You go in and rest. I can cook almost as well as you can. And if I can't... Well, all the more reason why I need the practice." "Pshaw," grunted the other woman, "you just want to make me out an ailing invalid and I won't have it" "I should say you won't. That's what I'm trying to avoid. Please do be careful... Just for a little while. Then you'll be perky as ever." Page 607 608 "Oh, you with your pleading, pretty eyes. I still don't see how you've managed to escape the men these many years." Enid brushed a curl from her forehead, said laughingly, "Well, for your information, Mr. Fletcher has asked me several times to go out with him." "Mr. Fletcher, the banker! Hmm. And what excuse did you give for not going?" "Oh, I'm good on excuses. I always have so much to do!" "Taking care of me, I suppose." The younger woman turned toward her quickly, "Oh, no. Of course not. That is one of the pleasantest things I do. I just don't care to go..." Miss Nobbitt was thoughtful as she said, "You could do worse. He'd give you a good life... That beautiful house on the corner..." Enid put the chicken onto the waiting platter, as she answered, "I like this house." "The corner you have of it isn't much, I'd say. If you'd swallow your pride and move in here, we'd both be better." "No. We wouldn't; I'd feel I was taking advantage of you. It's better this way." As the other woman_ turned, wearily, to go into her own room, she made one parting remark, "It might make a difference in Sharon's life...." Enid paused a moment, then shrugged her shoulders. Sharon understood. She wouldn't want to take something that wasn't hers any more than her mother would. She was a level-headed child, and very wise for fifteen. Enid was just putting the dishes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1946 on the table (since "Manda insisted they eat there), when Sharon came in, her long bob falling about her shoulders, her cheeks pink and glowing from the cold. "Hi, Mom," she greeted her mother, "how's Aunt *Manda?" She looked into the other room as she spoke, and Miss Nobbitt answered, "I'm just fine. Or will be when you come here and kiss me." The girl laughed and proceeded to kiss the older woman, affectionately. Then, she said, "I've got to hurry. I'm invited to a party and it's going to be a ritzy affair. Up at the Arnold's." Her mother's eyes widened, "You mean Sally Arnold's place?" "T mean no other." "Well, you are rather getting into high society. How did that happen?" "Oh, Sally's always been nice to me, but today some of the other girls who weren't invited were talking about her, saying she was a snob and stuff. They asked if I was invited and I said 'No,' but I still thought she was a nice girl and had nothing against her. I guess it got back to her because out of a clear sky she asked me to come. "Well, hurry then, child, hurry," Miss Nobbitt told her, "and you'd better wear that new blue taffeta dress. It brings out your eyes." EN ID hurriedly put things on the table. She didn't say anything, but she was well aware of the unusual excitement in her daughter's face, the happiness that hadn't been there before. Enid supposed she had always known that was the set Sharon had wanted to be in, should have been in, but Enid hadn't fully FAITH IS A HERITAGE realized how much it had meant to Sharon.; Instead of sitting down with them to eat, Enid first went into her own small rooms to take Sharon's blue taffeta dress from the closet, to make sure it was pressed and in order. As she carried it back with her, she held it against her heart lovingly, She assisted Sharon with her hair pressing the soft, natural waves into the gleaming bob. She zipped the dress up the side so that it emphasized the slim, girlish waist. When Sharon was ready, she whirled around, laughing, letting the full, billowing skirt go out like a bright balloon. "Do I look pretty enough?" she asked, stopping suddenly, her eyes serious. "Do I look as nice as the other girls will?" "If you weren't prettier than any of them in the first place," Miss Nobbitt said dryly, "I might say I don't know, but since you are, and since I'm sure none of them has a prettier dress, I guess there is only one answer." "Oh, you spoil her out of all reason," Enid protested, smilingly. And Miss Nobbit nodded, "Yes, I know. As if you didn't." "It hasn't hurt her so far," the gitl's mother answered, looking at her daughter, "And it just hadn't better, either." The two women talked seriously about it when the girl had left, wondering how much love and affection could be showered upon a child without turning her head. "It's frost, not sun, that kills a flower," Miss Nobbit insisted, "and it's not love, but lack of it, that spoils a child." 609 "I don't know," Enid said hesitantly, "I don't want her to be selfish... Or arrogant." "Oh, don't even give it a thought. Sharon was born wise and sweet. She'll always be that." "I do so hope she will." Enid's words were fervent, almost like a prayer as she began getting ready to go to her own apartment. She was awake when Sharon came home about eleven. She heard the laughter of young voices outside, heard the gay "goodnights" and she felt happy deep within her. She knew there were mothers whose own happiness seemed to come before their children's, but she was not one of them. If Sharon was happy, she was happy. She switched on the light as she heard the step at the door, sat up in bed, waiting to see the light in the girl's face, eager to hear the details of the party. The door opened and Sharon stepped in. Her face was bright, but only for a moment. She looked about her, and she seemed suddenly to droop. "What is it?" Enid asked her. "What is the matter? Didn't you have a good time? I heard you all laughing... I thought..." "Oh, yes, yes, of course I had a good time," Sharon said quickly, a note of irritation in her voice. "A wonderful time. It was the nicest home I've ever seen. They had beautiful dishes on the table, like those Miss Nobbit keeps in her china cupboard. They had a big fire in the fireplace..."" She stopped, and there were swift, gleaming tears in her eyes. "But what is it, darling?" Enid asked her again, climbing out of bed, going toward her. But Sharon did not come to her to explain whatever was bothering her. In fact, she seemed to draw into herself, to hold herself more aloof. She replied simply, "It's nothing. I I just wonder sometimes We can't ever have friends here. I can't ever entertain. And it won't ever be any different..." Enid caught a note of bitterness in the young voice. She felt as if something had struck her heavily. There was nothing she could say. She could only change the subject, pretend that she hadn't heard. Yet, long after the young girl had undressed and crawled into bed, the words kept burning themselves over and over in Enid's brain: "And it won't ever be any different." She put her hand on the warm, soft flesh of the young girl's arm. Tears were in her own eyes now as she whispered to herself: "It just might be different. It might be." (To be continued) HIS SILENCES Blanche Kendall McKey He wears deep in his eyes an alien look? This changeling who has closed an open door, Yet smiles to touch his desk, his pen, his book, Nor does he fail to cherish as before. A note cries from his voice sometimes at night That halts me, leaves me stranded and alone. What lies unburned, guarded from my sight, To shut him from me by a shaded tone? I did not sleep with pain and halt with death, Nor rise from blows because a dream shone clear, Nor shout above the flames with pulsing breath Because my God had stilled the beat of fear. I may not touch the latchstring of that gate Which holds his silences inviolate! 610 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SEPTEMBER 1946. 1 report for 1 accomplishments of Our more than one Society women 945 reveals the year's hundred thousand Relief Page GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF RELIEF SOCIETY AND MEMBERS Paper December 31, 1965 Membership 
Membership
THE aim of the General Board is to enroll as a Relief Society member every eligible Latter-day Saint woman. It is presumed that there is at least one woman eligible for Relief Society membership in each family in the Church. There are 61,665 Latter-day Saint families in the stakes not represented in Relief Society, while in the missions each family is represented by 1.8 members.
During the year, the missions gained 138 members and the stakes lost 509 members, making a net membership decrease of 371 or .36%. The membership loss is attributed principally to changing the time of Relief Society meeting, in some localities, from Sunday (a wartime expedient) to a weekday, to losses through death, resignation, removal, and to post-war population shifts.
In order to provide development for its members and to accomplish the objectives of the Relief Society program, a majority of the members are assigned to positions of responsibility. The variety of opportunity afforded for this development is indicated in the accompanying chart which shows the membership distribution in positions of leadership.
* 158,063 RELIEF SOCIETY FAMILIES
* 101,691 TOTAL RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS
* (47,523 IN MISSIONS)
* MORE THAN 50% OF TOTAL MEMBERS are active in leadership capacities
MEMBERSHIP BREAKDOWN:
* General Stake Mission Local Other Class Visiting Officers Officers Officers Exec Officers Leaders Teachers Officers: 117 / 1606 / 229 /
* 22,704 
* 18,961
* 29,704 
* 16,828 / 10,540 IN MISSIONS
* R.S. Members L.D.S.
WARD AND BRANCH Meetings & Attendance
[CHART DATA:] 84,477 TOTAL MEETINGS HELD
* 9,617 STAKE MEETINGS
* 29,697 TOTAL AVERAGE ATTENDANCE
* 8,354 VISITING TEACHERS MEETINGS
* 6,934 THEOLOGY & CULTURAL ARTS MEETINGS
* 59,209 IN STAKES
* 2,641 OFFICERS' MEETINGS
[STAKES DATA:]
* AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT REGULAR MEETINGS: 13,145
* WORK MEETINGS: 24,499 OR 28.3% OF MEMBERS
[MISSIONS DATA:]
* 2,575 THEOLOGY & CULTURAL ARTS MEETINGS
* 21,457 OTHER MEETINGS (OFFICERS, ETC)
* 3,236 VISITING TEACHERS MEETINGS
* 25,268 IN MISSIONS
* 7,268 THEOLOGY & CULTURAL MEETINGS
WARD and branch Relief Society meetings of all types held during 1945 numbered 84,477, an increase of 3,622 or 447% over the previous year.
There was a marked increase of 2,323 in the number of regular weekly meetings and an increase of 388 in visiting teacher training report meetings held over the year 1944. However, there was a decrease of 83 in the number of ward preparation meetings, a decrease of 271 ward conferences and a decrease of 59 in officers' meetings held in connection with ward conferences so that the net increase in the total number of meetings of all types was 3,622. This included 1315 March Sunday meetings, now not called for in the 1944 annual report.
The average attendance at visiting teacher training meetings was 3,175 or 9.87%, even though the number of such meetings increased.
While membership in the Society showed a slight decrease, this was offset by an increase in attendance at the regular meetings, indicating greater activity and interest on the part of the membership. The stakes showed an increase in average attendance at regular meetings of 1.09% over 1944, while the missions showed an even higher increase of 5.26%.
Missions AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT REGULAR MEETINGS: 5,198 / 32.84% OF MEMBERS
14,382 TOTAL AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT VISITING TEACHERS' MONTHLY REPORT MEETINGS - OR 48.28% OF VISITING TEACHERS
616 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1946
Visiting Teaching SERVICE
THIS service was inaugurated in 1843, just a year after the Society was organized. In addition to carrying greetings of cheer and comfort and faith-sustaining messages from the Society to Latter-day Saint families, visiting teachers report confidentially to the local president any cases of need they may observe on their visits, and perform any compassionate service requested of them by the Relief Society president.
Messages planned for discussion in the homes, begun in 1916, have ranged from subjects of practical interest to the homemaker to those of deep spiritual import. The "Beatitudes" and "Charity" were the subjects of messages carried by visiting teachers into Latter-day Saint homes through the 1945 period. Out of more than one million visits made, 68.1% of the families called upon were found at home, a slightly better ratio than was found at home during the previous year's visits. Visits made where no one was found at home constituted 31.9% of the total visits. Of the families found at home messages were delivered to 63.6% of them.
Each Latter-day Saint home should be visited once a month, or twelve times annually, in accordance with the Relief Society visiting teaching program. During 1945, there was an average of 7.2 visits made to each family, a slight increase over 1944 when an average of 7.1 visits was made to each family.
An increase of 4602 communications made by mail or telephone in lieu of visits was reported. These communications will, no doubt, be reduced to a minimum, as personal visits to the homes are resumed now that travel facilities are available.
[CHART DATA:] 1,140,373 TOTAL VISITS MADE BY 29,784 VISITING TEACHERS IN 17,228 DISTRICTS 7.2 average visits were made to each family 1945 [Shows illustration of house and visiting teachers] 56,326 NOT AT HOME 24,590
Educational SERVICE
FOR more than one hundred years the Society has carried forward its work of education. The program has been adapted to the needs of women over a period of time extending from a rigorous pioneering era to one of great social and industrial advancement, and it has aided the women of each period to better adjust to conditions. It has contributed to the personal development of Relief Society members, has widened their sphere of influence, and qualified them to better serve their fellow men.
TOTAL AVERAGE ATTENDANCE 29,697 OR 29.2% OF R.S. MEMBERS
[CHART DATA showing attendance numbers for different courses:]
* THEOLOGY: 6,199 / 6,649 / 4,906 / 2,321 / 36,193
* CULTURAL ARTS (LITERATURE): [bars showing attendance]
* SOCIAL SCIENCE: [bars showing attendance]
* HOME NURSING / NUTRITION / FIRST AID / ALL OTHERS: [bars with numbers]
During the past year, 7,335 class leaders conducted courses. Interest in theology, literature, and social science courses increased as evidenced in the average attendance, but interest in work meetings did not keep pace, due, probably, to scarcity of sewing materials. There was a decrease of 270 women in average attendance at each work meeting. Note from the chart that the greatest interest is in the theology course which, for many years, has held first place in the hearts of members. During 1945, an average of 1,064 more women attended the monthly theology meeting than in 1944.
Social science held second place, showing the greatest increase in interest of any of the courses, and an average of 1071 more women at each meeting.
Literature continued in third place with an average of 347 more women participating at each meeting.
Through these courses, an average of 29,697 women each week, or 18.78% of Latter-day Saint families received the benefit of the educational program.
In addition to regular courses of study, Relief Society members are encouraged to enroll in classes sponsored by the American Red Cross with a view to increasing their knowledge of subjects designed to promote health and well-being. The Red Cross, in 1945, certified 806 Relief Society members in these classes.
806 R.S. WOMEN certified in American Red Cross Courses
Compassionate SERVICE
"Said Jesus, 'ye shall do the work which ye see me do.' These are the grand keywords for the Society to act upon." —Prophet Joseph Smith
AT the ninth meeting of the Relief Society, in 1842, the following important instruction was given the Society by the Prophet: "Said Jesus, 'Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.' These are the grand keywords for the Society to act upon."
And the Society has acted upon these words from that day to the present time. During the war years, there has been pronounced need for compassionate services. This type of service has enlisted the time and abilities of tens of thousands of our members, both at home and abroad. It should be remembered that many deeds of kindness, compassion, and helpfulness performed for those in distress which cannot be measured in terms of reports. In these stressful times the Relief Society encourages an even greater spirit of sympathetic service among its members in support of the Prophet Joseph's admonition: "If you would have God have mercy on you—have mercy on one another . . . The best measure or principle to bring the poor to repentance is to administer to their wants." The Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls."
In 1945, there were 118,730 visits made to the sick and homebound, an increase of 2511 or 2.16%, but the number of days' care of the sick declined from 13,883 to 12,946 or 6.74%.
118,730 VISITS TO THE SICK HOMEBOUND 12,946 DAYS CARE OF THE SICK
A total of 594 bodies were prepared for burial during 1945. Of this number, 411 involved dressing only, while 183 bodies were completely prepared for burial by Relief Society. There were 74 fewer bodies dressed for burial during 1945, and 29 fewer completely prepared for burial. These figures represent a decrease of 10.5 or 14.77% in the number of bodies prepared for burial, both in complete preparation and dressing only, which indicates an increase in the services of morticians.
The Relief Society assisted at 4408 funerals, an increase of 341 or 8.38% over 1944. The assistance of Relief Society members at funerals has become traditional and, apparently, is one of the most widely used and deeply appreciated services rendered by the organization. In addition, Relief Society members as individuals perform countless comforting and helpful acts of which no record is made.
Image 1 Transcription
Sewing SERVICE
SEWING for the needy was one of the original purposes for which Relief Society was organized, and it continues today of primary importance. This activity not only helps to provide for the needy, but it also offers a channel for practical training for both the experienced and inexperienced sewer.
Church Welfare sewing is the most important part of the regular work-meeting program, followed by Relief Society quilting and sewing projects. In addition to practical sewing for the needy and for their own families, Relief Society women are increasing rare and beautiful handcraft skills through the work meeting.
Regular interest in aiding the needy is Churchwide, we are showing here a chart depicting war-service figures and Relief Society articles completed. Note that the call for men's, women's, and children's clothing is high, as was the case in 1944.
The average number of women doing sewing work and month decreased 270 during 1945 from 1944. Less than one-fourth of the total membership of the Society participated in the sewing program. The goal of the Relief Society is to have every member experience the joy and satisfaction found in sewing activities.
Approximately one-fourth of the women sewing at Relief Society work meeting during 1945 sewed articles for the American Red Cross. Although more hours of service were given during 1945 than in 1944, the articles completed were only two-thirds of the number reported in 1944.
[DATA FROM CHART:] 206,234 ARTICLES 32,320 R.S. WOMEN 741,378 HOURS
TOTALS: '42: 116,882 '43: 244,636 '44: 254,004 '45: 206,234
QUILTS: 13,044 / 22,114 / 14,919 / 11,443
OTHER BEDDING: 4,610 / 4,609 / 21,866 / 7,268
CHILDREN'S CLOTHING: 25,323 / 18,224 / 30,726 / 30,160
WOMEN'S CLOTHING: 10,141 / 13,436 / 18,508 / 22,531
MEN'S CLOTHING: 7,906 / 14,724 / 12,195 / 13,706
MISC.: 55,966 / 170,531 / 147,690 / 121,118

Image 2 Transcription
Church Welfare SERVICE
THE Relief Society provides service for the Church Welfare Plan by sewing, canning, and doing other types of food processing, by harvesting, and by giving employment service. The value of this contribution is incalculable. During 1945, Relief Society members gave 191,053 hours of service to Church Welfare projects. Work is done in Relief Society meetings.
The number of articles completed for the Church Welfare Plan totaled 42,527, a decrease of 49,855 from 1944. This decrease is due, almost wholly, to the scarcity of materials which prohibited some Societies from filling their sewing budget requirements. (There is no segregated report of the amount of time spent at Relief Society meetings on Church Welfare sewing.)
During the month of December 1945, the Society, in support of the Church Welfare Plan, participated in an extensive relief program for the aid of destitute Latter-day Saint families in the war-stricken countries of Europe. This included the contribution by Relief Society of 5944 quilts and 1403 blankets; contribution of 47,173 bars of soap by Relief Society members, and participation in the collection, sorting, mending, and packing of great quantities of good used clothing. While the ward bishoprics supply the material needs of families under their care, the Relief Society is fully cooperating with them in analyzing, under their direction, the situation of families in need. This past year, 9508 persons in 3231 families were given such service by the Relief Society. This service was in addition to the other types of service given by Relief Society to the Church Welfare Plan.
191,053 TOTAL HOURS OF SERVICE BY R.S. WOMEN - CHURCH WORK NOT INCLUDING SEWING DONE AT R.S. MEETINGS
17,808 HRS. WOMEN SEWING
173,245 HRS. BY ALL OTHERS
42,527 ARTICLES COMPLETED BY R.S. WOMEN - AT R.S. MEETINGS (39,829 IN STAKES, 2,698 IN MISSIONS)
Family Welfare Service Helped 9,508 PERSONS IN 3,231 FAMILIES (951 IN MISSIONS & 8,557 IN STAKES, 163 IN MISSIONS & 2,763 IN STAKES)
Financial Report
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS 1945
FINANCIAL DATA TABLE: Stakes Missions Total Cash Balance on Hand Jan. 1, 1945.... $ 402,174.99 $ 89,579.54 $ 491,754.53 Cash Receipts for Year ................ 389,846.58 84,406.03 474,286.61 Total Funds ......................... $ 792,021.57 $ 174,019.57 $ 966,041.14
Cash Disbursements for Year ............ 354,831.80 79,184.52 434,016.32
Cash Balance on Hand Dec. 31, 1945 . $ 437,189.77 $ 94,835.05 $ 532,024.82
ASSETS Cash Balance on Hand ................. $ 437,189.77 $ 94,835.05 $ 532,024.82 Wheat Trust Fund at P.B.O. .......... 416,583.90 3,128.80 419,960.98 Other Invested Funds, War Bonds 95,127.75 25,256.34 120,384.09 Real Estate and Buildings ............. 137,960.13 3,327.00 141,287.13 Furniture and Fixtures ................ 187,395.58 13,733.18 201,128.76 Other Assets ........................... 52,475.46 16,073.64 69,149.10 Total Assets .................... $1,326,036.59 $ 157,004.99 $1,483,930.68 Total Liabilities ................. 374.63 1,665.12 2,039.75
Balance Net Assets ................. $1,326,551.96 $ 155,338.97 $1,481,890.93
Magazine Subscriptions
[SUBSCRIPTION DATA TABLE:] Number of Per Cent Subscriptions Subscribing General Officers and Board Members ...... 17 100 Stake Officers and Board Members ........ 1574 98 Mission Presidents and Officers .......... 193 84.3 Ward and Branch Executive Officers ...... 6420 72.3 Other Officers ............................ 4371 88.3 Class Leaders ............................. 6499 87.4 Visiting Teachers ......................... 55139 79.0 All Other Members ......................... .......... ..... TOTAL SUBSCRIPTIONS ...................... 74032 72.8
COMPARATIVE Financial & Statistical Data
THIS IS TABLE: A detailed comparative table showing statistics for 1945 and 1944 with changes. Key sections include:
ORGANIZATIONS:
* Stakes: 150 (1945), 147 (1944), +3 (+1.89)
* Stakes Branches: 59 (1945), 56 (1944), +3 (+2.01)
* Local Wards in Stakes: 2230 (1945), 2215 (1944), +15 (+.81)
* Branches in Missions: 1310 (1945), 1336 (1944), -26 (-1.70)
* Branches: 521 (1945), 524 (1944), -3 (-.43)
MEMBERS:
* Membership Total: 101,691 (1945), 102,092 (1944), -371 (-.36) [Continues with detailed membership breakdowns]
L.D.S. FAMILIES:
* Total: 158,063 (1945), 161,865 (1944), -2802 (-1.80) [Continues with family statistics]
MEETINGS:
* Meetings Held Total: 97,533 (1945), 93,508 (1944), +4,025 (+4.81) [Continues with meeting attendance and activity statistics]
Image 4 Transcription (Complete)
COMPARATIVE Financial & Statistical Data
[THIS IS TABLE: A detailed comparative table showing statistics for 1945 and 1944 with changes]
19451944Change 1944 to 1945Number or AmountNumber or AmountNumber or AmountORGANIZATIONS: STAKES AND MISSIONS, TOTAL | 150 | 147 | +3 | +1.89 Organized | Stakes | 150 | 147 | +3 | +2.01 Local | 2230 | 2215 | +15 | +.81 Wards in Stakes | 1310 | 1336 | -26 | -1.70 Branches in Missions | 521 | 524 | -3 | -.43
MEMBERS: Membership Total | 101,691 | 102,092 | -371 | -.36 General Officers and Board Members | 17 | 17 | ... | ... Stake Officers and Board Members | 1,606 | 1,471 | +135 | +9.17 Mission Presidents and Officers | 229 | 215 | +14 | +6.74 Ward and Branch Executive Officers | 8,897 | 8,923 | -26 | -.29 Other Officers | 4,385 | 4,265 | +120 | +2.87 Class Leaders | 6,836 | 7,211 | -375 | -5.15 Visiting Teachers | 29,784 | 29,166 | +756 | +2.69 All Other Members | 49,887 | 50,295 | -1612 | -3.18
L.D.S. FAMILIES: L. D. S. Families, Total | 158,063 | 161,865 | -2802 | -1.80 In Stakes | 147,523 | 146,697 | +1026 | +.69 In Missions | 10,540 | 14,268 | -3728 | -26.12
MEETINGS:
1. MEETINGS HELD, TOTAL | 97,533 | 93,508 | +4,025 | +4.81
In Wards and Branches Regular Weekly Meetings for Members | 84,477 | 80,855 | +3622 | +4.47 Special Workers and Class Leaders Mtgs. | 59,745 | 60,413 | -2,362 | -3.86 Visiting Teachers' Training Meetings | 8,387 | 8,599 | +388 | +4.51 Ward Preparation Meetings | 8,432 | 8,515 | -83 | -.97 Ward Conferences | 1,563 | 1,904 | -271 | -14.26 Visits and (March) Preliminary Meetings | 2,535 | 1,424 | +6 | +.11
In Stakes and Missions | 3,051 | 2,630 | +421 | +15.24 Stake and Mission Dist. Board Meetings | 1,689 | 1,555 | +134 | +8.55 Stake and Mission (Officers & Class) Mtgs. | 879 | 594 | +285 | +47.92 Meetings in Lieu of Union Meetings | 463 | 481 | -18 | -3.74
2. General Board Meetings Held | 95 | 93 | +2 | +1.88
ATTENDANCE: 3. VISITS TO WARDS BY STAKE OFFICERS | 8,229 | 7,235 | +1,073 | +14.79
3. AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT REGULAR MEETINGS FOR MEMBERS | 29,697 | 28,171 | +1,526 | +1.80 In Stakes | 24,499 | 24,333 | +166 | +1.08 In Missions | 5,198 | 3,838 | +1,360 | +35.92
4. % OF MEMBERS REPRESENTED BY AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT REGULAR MEETINGS | 29.2 | 28.58 | +.6 | In Stakes | 29.5 | 29.0 | +.5 | In Missions | 32.84 | 31.5 | +1.34 |
ACTIVITIES:
1. VISITING TEACHING Number of Visiting Teacher Districts | 17,228 | 16,947 | +281 | +15.5 Families Visited, Total | 1,140,373 | 1,175,117 | -145 | -.08 Home | 727,746 | 704,467 | +474 | +.06 Not at Home | 364,942 | 365,022 | -1,874 | -1.27 Per Cent Home | 68.13 | 67.84 | | No. Communications in Lieu of Visits | 24,558 | 19,996 | +4,602 | +23.00
COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL DATA (Continued)
Image 5 Transcription (Complete with all statistics)
COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL DATA (Continued)
19451944Change 1944 to 1945Number or AmountNumber or AmountNumber or Amount2. EDUCATIONAL SERVICE
Average Attendance at Relief Society Theology | 22,897 | 21,813 | +1,084 | +3.34 Work (Sewing) | 27,920 | 28,190 | -270 | -.98 Literature | 22,388 | 23,241 | -853 | -1.52 Social Science | 30,353 | 29,425 | +1,171 | +3.53
Women Enrolled in Red Cross Courses | 806 | 1,820 | -1,014 | -55.71 Home Nursing | 382 | 1,208 | -826 | -58.37 First Aid | 182 | 298 | -116 | -38.37 Nutrition | 117 | 185 | -68 | -36.51 All Other | 142 | 138 | +4 | +2.89
3. SEWING SERVICES AT MEETINGS
Av. No. of Women Sewing Monthly | 32,320 | 32,676 | -356 | -1.08 For Relief Society | 7,805 | 7,874 | -69 | -.87 For All Other | 24,435 | 24,802 | -307 | -1.23
Number of Hours Given | 741,388 | 715,789 | +24,599 | +4.43 For Red Cross | 143,378 | 139,338 | +4,040 | +2.89 For All Other Purposes | 597,990 | 577,451 | +20,539 | +3.55
Articles Completed | 206,234 | 254,004 | -47,770 | -18.80 For Relief Society | 75,525 | 54,441 | +21,084 | +38.72 For Church Welfare | 42,527 | 92,382 | -49,855 | -48.09 For Red Cross | 74,360 | 103,745 | -29,548 | -27.49 For All Other | 13,973 | 3,474 | +10,541 | +303.31
Kinds of Articles Quilts | 11,443 | 14,919 | -3,576 | -18.33 Other Bedding | 7,268 | 21,866 | -14,598 | -66.76 Children's Clothing | 30,160 | 30,726 | -566 | -24.07 Women's Clothing | 22,531 | 18,508 | +4,023 | +21.73 Men's Clothing | 13,708 | 12,195 | +1,513 | +12.40 Other (Miscellaneous) | 121,118 | 147,890 | -26,872 | -17.95
4. COMPASSIONATE SERVICES
Visits to Sick and Homebound | 118,730 | 116,219 | +2,511 | +2.15 Number of Days' Care of the Sick | 12,946 | 13,883 | -937 | -6.74 Bodies Prepared for Burial | 594 | 667 | -73 | -14.77 Complete Preparation | 183 | 183 | ... | ... Dressing Only | 411 | 485 | -74 | -15.26 No. Funerals at which R. S. Assisted | 4,438 | 4,067 | +341 | +8.38
5. CHURCH WELFARE SERVICES (In addition to 42,527 articles completed at Relief Society work meetings)
Hrs. Church Welfare Projects | 191,053 | 524,915 | -333,862 | -63.60 By R.S. Women Receiving Aid | 17,808 | 24,780 | -6,972 | -28.13 By All Other (not Sewing at mtgs.) | 173,245 | 500,135 | -326,890 | -65.36
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
No. of Ward First Aid Kits | 783 | 730 | +6 | +.38 No. of Wards Owning Home Supply Chests | 418 | 253 | +165 | +65.20 No. Wards With Lists of Nurses | 878 | 544 | +134 | +24.63
FINANCES
Cash Receipts | $474,286.61 | $533,032.93 | -$78,746.32 | -14.23 Cash Disbursements | $434,016.32 | $486,931.88 | -$52,915.53 | -10.81 Net Assets | $1,481,890.93 | $1,438,406.15 | +$43,484.78 | +3.02
MAGAZINE
Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions | 74,032 | 71,634 | +2,398 | +3.34
2,230 Organizations with 101,691 Members Held 84,477 Meetings 29,784 Visiting Teachers Made 1,140,373 Visits To 158,063 Families
An Average Education for:
* Theology
* Literature
* Social Science 29,697 Women Received (and 806 in Red Cross courses)
118,730 Visits to Sick & Homebound and 12,946 Days Care of the Sick
32,320 R.S. Women Sewed 206,234 Articles
For Church Welfare R.S. Women Completed 42,527 Articles In Addition to Working 191,053 Hours for Other Church Welfare Projects
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SEPTEMBER 1946 _ Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, Page 104. GENERAL ACTIVITIES AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS MARICOPA STAKE (ARIZONA) RELIEF SOCIETY PAGEANT "THE ELECT LADY" pantomime, verse, and song. The different wards Presented episodes relating to the special work which has been accomplished by each General President. Evalyn B. White, draped in a beautiful white robe, and carrying a glittering gold and blue banner, held the center of the stage as the "Spirit of Relief Society." Young Relief Society women knowledge, etc. As a grand finale, the Singing Mothers took their positions on the Stage, carrying flags of different nations, They sang: "This Is a Choice Land," composed by Flora Hicks. During intermission special instrumental numbers were presented. Photograph submitted by Maricopa Stake Secretary Irene A. Duke. Page 625 626 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1946 FARR WEST STAKE (OGDEN, UTAH) MARRIOTT WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS Seated, left to right: Lola Dinsdale, Frances Reeder, Louise Elmer, Caroline Hewitt, Mary E. Pierce, Zina McFarland, Margaret Mortis. Standing, left to right: LaRee Elmer, Mabel Wahlstrom, Lilly Tracy, Second Counselor Mary Butler, President Frances Pierce, First Counselor Edith Ritchie, Marcia Bingham, Nevada Slater. Nora Jacobs was absent when the picture was taken. The Marriott Ward Relief Society entertained November 15, 1945, at the home of Lilly J. Tracy in honor of the visiting teachers. Dinner was served to sixteen, after which Sarah Slater, the visiting teachers' leader, presented each teacher with a beautiful card expressing appreciation for the faithful work accomplished. This group has achieved 100 per cent in their work for the past three years. The oldest visiting teacher, Mary E. Pierce, is eighty-four years old. She has been a visiting teacher for fifty-two years. Some of the other teachers have served in this capacity for forty to fifty years. Photograph submitted by Nellie W. Neal, President, Farr West Stake Relief Society. REXBURG AND NORTH REXBURG STAKES HATTIE E. BROWN, Secretary of Rexburg Stake Relief Society reports a delightful party which was held March 16th, 1946, in the Rexburg Tabernacle, in honor of the retiring president, Elizabeth W. Stowell and board members, Mary E. Hunt, Loretta Rigby, Jennie Brown, and Emily Clark. More than 225 Relief Society workers attended and a program of music and tributes to the retiring officers was presented. Each honored guest was given a corsage and a card. After the program, refreshments were served in the ballroom. The table was covered with a lace cloth and the centerpiece was a large bowl of jonquils and carnations. A girls' trio from the Madison High School played instrumental music while refreshments were being served. It was an inspirational party and it well expressed appreciation for Sister Stowell and her co-workers. Sister Luseba W. Petersen is now President of Rexburg Stake Relief Society and Hattie L. Rigby is President of the newly organized North Rexburg Stake. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 627 BOISE STAKE (IDAHO), BOISE SECOND WARD, PROGRAM DEPICTING THE WORK AND THE SPIRIT OF RELIEF SOCIETY During the 1945 fall homecoming party of the Boise Second Ward, the Relief Society presented a program illustrating the growth of the organization and its purpose in the Church. In the photograph above, the women in old-fashioned costumes represent members of the first Relief Society. The photograph below represents a modern Relief Society and its accomplishments. During the program, a narrator told the story of the organization of the Relief Society and how its spirit and purpose are guiding forces for Relief Society today. Photographs submitted by Willis S. Peterson, Bishop, Boise Second Ward NORTHERN STATES MISSION, DAYTON BRANCH (OHIO) RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS: Front row, left to right: District President Ila J. Harvey, Mary Jones, President Erma C. Boam, Charlene Blimes. Second row, left to right: Ola Weidenheimer, Jane Jepson, Althea Kreitzer, Second Counselor Margaret Hetrick, Marion B. Wallgren. Third row, left to night: Secretary Mabel H. Weiler, Mary Alexander, Minnie Mae Hunt. Back row, left to right: Letha Scott, Norma Boam, Marylyn Tinney, Lydia Stewart. Photograph submitted by Erma C. Boam. SAN LUIS STAKE (COLORADO), MANASSA WARD SEVEN RETIRED WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS AND THE PRESENT PRESIDENT Front row, left to right: Mary C. Crowther, Bernecie Rogers, Edith Christensen, Annie Dunn. Back row, left to right: President of Manassa Ward, Laura Sowards, Sarah Brady, Gertrude Haynie, Emily Jensen. Photograph submitted by San Luis Stake Relief Society President Jane C. Anderson. 628 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1946 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 629 NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION, GREAT FALLS BRANCH (MONTANA) RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY DINNER This dinner was held March 19, 1946. Eighty-five people were served. Immediately after the dinner a special musical program was presented, followed by dancing. The Great Falls Relief Society has enjoyed a very successful year, with forty-eight active members, headed by President Lucy J. Egan and assisted by Counselors Jennie Dillow and Leah Call, Secretary Alice Harris, and chorister Helen Bergman. 'The class leaders are: literature, Maudell Hartman; theology, Myrle Thurber; social science, Ina Gearhart. Photograph submitted by President Lucy J. Egan. WEST POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO), SINGING MOTHERS Assembled for Sunday. Evening meeting November 4, 1945 630 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1946 ST. JOSEPH STAKE (ARIZONA), THATCHER WARD, SINGING MOTHERS March 17, 1946, at the anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society. Reading from left to right, front row: Manuella Mickelson; Pearl Dodge; Helen Nations; Eliza Tanner; Lettie Busby; Lillie Allen; Louise Robinson; Adelia Mecham; Bernice Stowell; Bertha Green; Marie Farley; Georgia Allen; Pearl Reed; Ruth Hullahan; Lexie Mullenaux; Beulah Daley. Second row: Ella Moody; Cary Thatcher; Velma Nelson; Doris Moody; Grace Allen; Wanda Sparks; Olive Hoopes; Lillie Hawkins; Eunice Curtis; Genevive Woods; Tillie McClellan; Ethel Mortenson; Velda Hancock; Eliza Motes; Betty Ferrin. Third Row: Lillie Smith; Nora Hoopes; Thora Harless; Marjory Layton; Nancy Cutler; Nira Lee; Sophrane Clawson; Irene Woods; Eloise Householder; Velma West: Maud Greer; Martha Mortenson; Olive Robinson. The Thatcher Ward Singing Mothers were organized in 1938 under the direction of Sister Lettie Mickelson, then president of the Thatcher Ward Relief Society, with Tillie McClellan as director and Phoebe Pease as accompanist. These sisters have sung at many quarterly conferences of the St. Joseph Stake, have served as a choir in the Thatcher Ward, have furnished music for nearly every funeral in the ward, and have given much community service. These Singing Mothers are now under the direction of President Lavona Hoopes, with Louise Robinson and Ella Lee as counselors. Marie Farley is the present conductor and Bernice Stowell is organist. Photograph submitted by Grace M. Cluff, Secretary, St. Joseph Stake Relief Society. > SONG Margery S. Stewart I am not one, but three. The girl I was, still walks with me; The woman I shall be tomorrow Goes proud and wise and old in sorrow; And each would claim me for her own, Aching laughter. Aching bone. But I ignore them. Strong, serene, I am the golden years between. LESSON, E, DEPARIMENT Theology Church History Lesson 19 The Relief Society Developed Elder H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, December 3, 1946 Objective: growth and joy of women in service. THE administration of the restored Church of Christ as it now is organized upon the earth comes under the order of the Priesthood. 'This means that God himself is at the helm, that the various offices of his order were created by his will and at his express command, and, that in those who lead in his work there must be an understanding of the meaning of true humility, or the Lord cannot fully bestow his blessings. In other words, "not my will, but thine, be done," must be the devout wish of those who would serve him. It may be a long and weary road men travel before they truly come to the full realization of this perfect order of living, and by the time that many have done so, they are ready to pass on into another life, leaving the world once again to a new generation which must for itself learn, through trial and error, the Lord's way to better living. To help his wayward children, in part at least, to understand the blessings of To trace the steps which developed an organization to provide for the brotherly kindness which lead to the kingdom, God instituted the establishment among men of our constitutional government (Doc. And Cov. 101:77-80). The Constitution and Bill of Rights guarantee justice for all. But men, not mindful of the will of God in their lives, often forget the good, and, if called into public office, seek only to promote personal advancement or the interests of special groups. A constitution with bylaws, while one of the best instruments devised by which the common man may be assured his rights, is yet short of the perfect order for the more abundant life. For the perfect brotherhood of man, there needs to be a complete understanding of the fatherhood of God. When men learn that the Lord's way is the best way, then they will accept those he calls to preside over his people and regard their words of counsel as his own. Such an order literally brings upon the earth the kingdom since those Page 631 632 leading have a direct channel to the source of all wisdom, and power and vision to lead the Church aright. In the rich, but trying days, of "Nauvoo the Beautiful," the long: felt desire of the women of the Church to organize their efforts in service found fulfillment. The ex: acting work of manual labor on the part of the men of the Church could not have been borne for so long a period had not the women been ever at hand to provide the physical and spiritual comforts. During the building of the Kirtland Temple, it will be remembered, the sisters were ever on hand. The wife of Hiram Kimball, Sarah M. Kimball, tells of how the sisters of the Church would cheerfully chum butter and bring it to the workmen even to the point of denying their own tables. The spirit of co-operative industry was ever a part of the restored Church. Men and women put the cause of Zion above self. This, naturally, created a desire among them to organize. It is a most significant fact that, as a result of such a desire, the Relief Society came into being, not so much from the standpoint of its being organized, but rather by the way in which the Prophet of the Lord turned that desire into the more perfect pattern of organization under the Priesthood. Note how it was done as related in an account by Sarah M. Kimball: In the spring of 1842, a maiden lady (Miss Cook) was seamstress for me, and the subject of combining our efforts for assisting the temple hands came up in conversation. She desired to be helpful, but had no means to furnish. I told her I would furnish material if she would RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1946 make some shirts for the workmen. It was then suggested that some of the neighbors might wish to combine means and efforts with ours, and we decided to invite a few to come and consult with us on the subject of forming a Ladies' Society. The neighboring sisters met in my parlor and decided to organize. I was delegated to call on Sister Eliza R. Snow and ask her to write for us a constitution and bylaws and submit them to President Joseph Smith prior to our next Thursday's meeting. She cheerfully responded, and when she read them to him he replied that the constitution and bylaws were the best he had ever seen. "But," he said, "this is not what you want. Tell the sisters their offering is accepted of the Lord, and He has something better for them than a written constitution. Invite them all to meet me and a few of the brethren in the Masonic Hall over my store next Thursday afternoon, and I will organize the sisters under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood." He further said, "This Church was never perfectly organized until the women were thus organized" (Relief Society Magazine, VI, March 1919, page 129). The Lord had something better for them than a written constitution. How significant and most fittingly true have become the Prophet's words. A society founded upon 4 constitutional order would have, by nature, its roots in the customs of men. Officers to lead such a society would tend to look more to the legally granted rights of their calling than to the calling itself. But the Lord, through his Prophet, chose to outline a better way of turning to account the desires of his handmaidens. 'They, in part at least, were to function under the. Administrative order of the Priesthood even though they could not be given the Priesthood itself. Accordingly, 'on Thursday afternoon, March 17, 1842, as the day agreed upon, eighteen attentive LESSON DEPARTMENT women met the Prophet Joseph Smith in company with Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards. The Prophet called Elder Taylor to the chair and appointed Elder Willard Richards to act as secretary. "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning" was sung, and Elder Taylor opened the meeting with prayer. The Prophet then began to organize the women present, who were: Emma H. Smith Sarah M. Cleveland Phebe Ann Hawkes Elizabeth Jones Sophia Packard Philinda Merrick Martha Knight Desdemona Fulmer Elizabeth Ann Whitney Bathsheba W. Smith Phebe M. Wheeler Elvira A. Coles Margaret A. Cook Sarah M. Kimball Eliza R. Snow Sophia Robinson Leonora Taylor Sophia R. Marks In addition to the eighteen women present, the following women, not present, were also admitted to membership at this first meeting: Sarah Higbee Thirza Cahoon Keziah A. Morrison Marinda N. Hyde Abigail Allred Mary Snider Lydia D. Granger Cynthia A. Eldredge President Joseph Smith addressed the sisters: " _ _ to illustrate the object of the Society that the Society of the sisters might provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community, and save the elders the trouble of rebuking; that they may give their time to other duties, 633 etc., in their public teaching" (Relief Society Minutes, March 17, 1842). President Smith further remarked: ?that an organization to show them how to work was sufficient, or how to go to work was sufficient. He proposed that the sisters elect a presiding officer to preside over them, and let the presiding officer choose two counselors to assist in the duties of her office... And if they need his instruction, ask him, he will give it from time to time.... Let this presidency serve as a Constitution all their decisions be considered law, and acted upon as such. If any officers are wanted to carry out the design of the institution let them be appointed and set apart... - The minutes of your meetings ill be precedent for you to act upon your Constitution and law" (A Century of Relief Society, page 15)- "Let this presidency serve as a Constitution all their decisions be considered law, and acted upon as such." To one not knowing the workings of the Priesthood, such a plan of organization might seem dictatorial. In outward form perhaps, yes, but in inward spirit, far from such. To one who understands the gospel call to authority, comes the knowledge that such falls under the words of the Master, "Ye have not chosen me but I have chosen you." In other words, the call to true leadership can come only to one who is worthy in every way to completely forget self in service to fellow man. "He that is greatest among you shall be your servant" (Matt. 23:11). If this principle is thoroughly understood by all Church members, then officer and layman, alike, willingly unite for the sake of the cause, since the cause is greater by far than anyone in it, great or small. By instructing the sisters to counsel together under their presidency, and by directing that presidency to look to the head of the Church for final counsel, the Prophet established for the Relief Society the pattern of government that could lay claim on direct inspiration from the Lord himself. Think how such an organization so conceived and so dedicated can serve! To all its members, there can come the assurance that all services given will go directly to the relief of want and suffering. To the officers of such a society, there can come the peace of mind known only to those who have taken upon them his yoke and learned that his burden is light. Why? Because they have the joy of service that comes because the call came rather than was sought. Today, after more than a century, the golden symbol of the Relief Society circles the hearts of more than a hundred thousand souls. 'The good bread of life and the touch of learning are therein shown, and the phrase "Charity never faileth," forever becomes the watchword of service. Women who belong have found its eternal meaning. Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion: With the help of the suggested readings given below, have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part of the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." 1. On March 20, 1839, just about three years to the day before the organization of the Relief Society, the Prophet Joseph Smith was a prisoner in the Liberty Jail. He gave us at that time one of the most beautiful prophecies on the Priesthood of God and its functioning that has ever been written. In part, he said, "That the rights of the Priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of heaven" (Doc. And Cov. 121:36). Just what does this mean? Give each member of your class a few minutes time to write down her answer. Then have each respond. After the response, have all of the 1215s section of the Doctrine and Covenants read without interruption. At the conclusion of the reading, make especially the verses 33 to 46 the subject of class discussion. 2. If you were asked to name just one joy of service the Relief Society has offered you, what would it be? Get a response from all class members before reading to them the following words, addressed by the Prophet Joseph at the sixth meeting of the Society held at Nauvoo, April 28, 1842: Let this Society teach women how to behave towards their husbands, to treat them with mildness and affection. When a man is borne down with trouble, when he is perplexed with care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of an argument or a murmur if he can meet with mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is going to despair, it needs a solace of affection and kindness. You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation; and I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth; this is the beginning of better days to the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads (Documentary History of the Church, IV, pp. 606-7). For this lesson, the most significant material for inspiration and reading is A Centenary of Relief Society, published by the General Board of the Relief Society, price so cents. The teacher should bring to the class at least one copy of this excellent presentation of one hundred years of Relief Society. 634 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1946 Objective: To show that the pioneers recognized and Practiced the first Principle of revealed religion, namely faith faith in God, faith in their leaders, faith in one another, and faith in a great Cause, Visiting Teachers' Messages—Our Pioneer Heritage
Lesson 3—Faith
President Amy Brown Lyman
For Tuesday, December 3, 1946
Objective: To show that the pioneers recognized and practiced the first principle of revealed religion, namely faith—faith in God, faith in their leaders, faith in one another, and faith in a great cause.
THAT the pioneers had great and abiding faith in their Heavenly Father, in their leaders, in one another, and in the great gospel cause we constantly demonstrated in their daily lives and in their many co-operative undertakings.
One of the severest tests of their faith came in the winter of 1846 when they were forced to choose between relinquishing their religious beliefs or giving up their homes. And they were not only losing their homes, but also their beautiful city, Nauvoo, and their beloved temple which had been built at such great cost in effort and sacrifice.
As dear to their hearts as were their lovely homes, their sacred temple, and their beloved city, dearer still to them was the gospel of the Master. And with the same indomitable faith and courage as that which had been demonstrated by the saints in Missouri, they chose to cling to their religious convictions and meet whatever hazards and sacrifices this action might involve. They realized fully that leaving their homes at this time did not mean merely trying again to locate in another part of the State or in another of the adjoining states, but that it meant a move, a desperate and daring move, into the great, un-
known, western desert, where, far from their enemies, they hoped to establish a home in which they could worship God in perfect freedom and work out in their own way their social and religious problems.
The migration of the Mormon pioneers—their exodus from Nauvoo, their journey across the plains, and their settlement in the desert, is one of the greatest examples of pioneering in human history. The question always arises, how was it ever accomplished? The answer is that it was accomplished through unflinching faith, accompanied by unceasing struggle and matchless hard work.
First, there was implicit faith and trust in the Lord and in his protecting care. Second, there was faith in their leaders and in the inspiration of those leaders. And finally, there was their faith in the great cause to which they were devoted. It was their conviction that theirs was the true gospel of the Master, which had been restored again, and that they had been called to help to prepare the earth for the coming of Christ. Thus it is seen that religion with its dynamic qualities was the most vital thing in the life of these pioneers, sustaining and steadying them in every adjustment they were called to make. LESSON DEPARTMENT 635 636 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1946 Work Meeting Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3?Fitting and Adjusting Patterns, and Cutting Work Meeting Committee, Velma N. Simonsen, Chairman For Tuesday, December 10, 1946 Objective: To decide the proper style of pattern and suitable material for a given individual; to teach how to interpret commercial patterns; to demonstrate the adjusting of a pattern to individual measurements, and the cutting. Reference: Patterns and Measurements SATISFACTORY work is based on accurate measurement. To measure is to verify a given length or space in terms of a_ standard gauge. For all types of dressmaking, a good pattern is indispensable. It is not economy to use makeshift patterns at any time. Widths and lengths of the figure are the basic measurements used in patterns. All patterns should be purchased according to bust measurements, with the exception of skirts, slacks, etc., which are usually purchased by hip or waist measurements. It is better to use a tape measure to compare the size of your pattern with your own measurements, rather than to attempt to pin the thin tissue pieces together and try them on; however, in order to thoroughly understand a given pattern, it may be helpful to pin the various parts together before laying them out. A pattern carefully fitted to your measurements, lines, and proportions, should cut a garment which will need little or no The Complete Book of Sewing, Chapters 10 and 11. Fitting. 'The home sewer can eliminate fitting problems by carefully following, step by step, the instructions given on each pattern for making the proper adjustments. Patterns are made to standard measurements, yet seldom is the human figure standard in every detail. Laying on the Pattern To ensure the proper fit of a garment, lay the pattern over the material on a table, being sure that the pieces are laid either straight of the goods or bias, as the pattern indicates. Cutting Be sure that the pattern and the material are pinned securely together, and are lying flat on the table before beginning to cut the garment. Also, recheck carefully with a tape measure, the bust, waist, hip, and length measurements before doing your cutting. Assignment for January: Bring your pattern and cut-out material to class. Also, bring pieces of different types of cloth, such as cotton, wool, silk, rayon, chiffon, etc.; also, a needle, thread, and thimble. LESSON DEPARTMENT 637 Literature America as Revealed in Its Literature lesson 3 America's First War for Freedom Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, December 17, 1946 Within its shade of elm and oak The church of Berkley Manor stood; There Sunday found the rural folk, And some esteem'd of gentle blood.The pastor rose; the prayer was strong; The psalm was warrior Divid's song. The text, a few short words of might,— "The Lord of Hosts shall arm the right!" He spoke of wrongs too long endured, Of sacred rights to be secured . . . And rising on his theme's broad wing, In face of death he dared to fling Defiance to a tyrant king. A moment there was awful pause— When Berkley cried, "Cease, traitor! cease!" God's temple is the house of peace!" The other shouted, "Nay, not so, When God is with our righteous cause; His holiest places then are ours. . . . In this, the dawn of Freedom's day, There is a time to fight and pray." "The Rising," Thomas B. Read
ABOUT a century and a half had passed since the Virginians had landed on the shore of America. From that band of adventurers, the Pilgrims, and other small groups of freedom seekers clinging through bitter hardships to a new world, the population had increased to more than three million souls. Expanding farms, fur trade, beginnings of manufacturing and of shipping, were adding wealth, comforts, and luxuries. Beyond this, there was also something even more significant: Americans were becoming solidly
grounded in the art of governing themselves.
True, they had gone forward—for the most part willingly—under king-appointed governors. Yet they had a large share, through their own chosen assemblies, in making their own laws and directing their own welfare as colonists. Jealous of their rights as English freemen, they brooked little tyranny from the officers of the Crown.
Under beneficent administration of such prime ministers as William Pitt, their basic liberties were respected. When others of less democratic spirit rose to power, however, trouble began. Such was the situation during the reign of George the Third. Unlike his father and his grandfather, who had played only minor roles as English monarchs, this Third George, under stimulus it is said of his ambitious mother, decided that he would be king in more than name.
Backed by supporters, then of a majority in Parliament, and with king-minded prime ministers, for a time he had his autocratic way. A debt, incurred largely by the French and Indian War, had to be met. Since this had been fought on American soil, it was felt that the colonists should pay their share. To this there was not so much objection; but the way the taxes were levied, with the Americans having no voice in the matter, was in violation of the ancient right expressed in the phrase, "No taxation without representation." When agents of the king tried to enforce the "Stamp Act" as passed by Parliament, on the colonists, they met bitter opposition. Other laws to suppress the patriotic resistance only added fuel to the flames. Finally, alarmed by the conflagration they had touched off in America, the British lawmakers called Ben Franklin, then in London as representative of Pennsylvania, to get some firsthand information as to the situation Overseas. In response to their questions as to what were the causes of the uprising, the American statesman told them frankly of the abuses they were heaping on their fellow freemen in America. He said, further, that by these acts Parliament, formerly looked upon with respect and gratitude for the protection it had given the colonies in their rights, was losing its high place in their hearts. "Don't you think," asked one, "they would submit to the Stamp Act, if it was modified, the obnoxious parts taken out, and the duty reduced to some particulars of small moment?" "No," replied Franklin, "they will never submit to it." "If the Stamp Act were repealed, would it induce the Assemblies of America to acknowledge the right of Parliament to tax them?" "No, never." "Is there a power on earth that can force them to erase their resolutions?" "No power," returned Franklin, "how great so ever, can force men to change their opinions." Largely as the result of Franklin's plain talk, Parliament repealed the Stamp Act except for a small tax on tea. This was kept, it seems, that King George might assert his right - to tax the colonies. An answer to this came dramatically from a group of Americans, when, disguised as Indians, they boarded a vessel in Boston Harbor and pitched its cargo of tea overboard. This so-called "Boston Tea Party" made the king and his cohorts furious. By royal decree the harbor was Closed, and an army sent there to be quartered, in part, in the homes of the people, and to enforce the will of the monarch. Naturally, this set not only Massachusetts but all the other colonies aflame. Literature, expressive of the spirit of the times, came mainly in the form of fiery speeches of protest against tyranny. One of these, by Patrick Henry in the House of Burgesses or Legislature of Virginia, sounded a ringing keynote for the patriot forces. He had introduced a resolution there calling for Virginia to join with the other colonies in the fight for freedom. Other members of the House, whose interests were tied closely with England, voiced their opposition. When they had said their say, young Patrick, brought up on the frontier, rose calmly and said: Mr. President, it is natural for man to indulge in the illusions of hope. We are apt to shut our eyes to a painful truth, and listen to the song of that siren until she transforms us into beasts. Is this the part of wise men engaged in the great and arduous struggle for liberty? I have but one lamp by which my feet are guided, and that is the lamp of experience. I know of no way of judging the future but by the past. And judging by the past, I wish to know what there has been in the conduct of the British Ministry for the last ten years to justify 638 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT the hopes with which gentlemen have been pleased to solace themselves and the House? Is it the insidious smile with which our petition has lately been received Trust it not sir.... Suffer yourselves not to be betrayed with a kiss, Rising in intensity, as he recited wrongs and met the arguments against his resolution, he finally brought his classic address to its close with these burning words: What is it that gentlemen wish? What would they have? Is life so dear or peace SO sweet as to be purchased at the price of chains and slavery? Forbid it, Almighty God! I know not what course others may take; but as for me, give me liberty or give me death! Patrick Henry's resolution was passed, and Virginia joined with full force in the war for freedom. One of her great sons, George Washington, was made commander. In chief of the American armies, Another, Thomas Jefferson, was to write the Declaration of Independence, an immortal document of classic quality. Patrick Henry, chosen governor of the Old Dominion, was to throw all his youthful vigor into the cause. To the north, in New England, War was on. Patriots, led by Hancock and Adams, were openly and secretly resisting the armies of England. A group called the "Sons of Liberty" kept close watch on the enemy's movements. One of these, Paul Revere, getting word of an at. Tack planned by the "redcoats" to destroy stores the Americans had gathered, made a midnight ride from Boston to Lexington to sound the warning, while William Dawes took another route to rouse the country folk. In Longfellow's "Paul Revere's 639 Ride," one of his Wayside Inn poems and a classic in storytelling, we are given the picture and spirit of those times. Just a few lines from the old favorite will serve to bring them back vibrantly: He said to his friend, "If the British march By land or sea from the town to-night, Hang a lantern aloft in the belfry arch Of the North Church tower as a signal light? One, if by land, and two, if by sea; And I on the opposite shore will be, Ready to ride and spread the alarm Through every Middlesex village and farm, For the country folk to be up and to arm." Then he said, "Good night!" and with muffled oar Silently rowed to the Charlestown shore... Two lanterns flash the signal from the high tower; then? A hurry of hoofs in a village street, A shape in the moonlight, a bulk in the dark, And beneath, from the pebbles, in passing, a spark Struck out by a steed flying fearless and fleet: That was all! And yet, through the gloom and the light, The fate of a nation was riding that night; And the spark struck out by that steed, in his flight, Kindled the land into flame with its heat. Benjamin Franklin, meantime, barely escaping capture by the British, had returned to his homeland. With him came Thomas Paine. An. Other lover of liberty, to lend a hand in helping the Americans win the struggle. Through his stirring pamphlets, Paine lifted the cause into the clear, not only for the struggling patriots but for the world. Wo essays, "Common Sense" and "The Crisis," are among the best of these writings. In this para- graph from "The Crisis," by this friend of the early Americans, we catch something of the spirit and the thinking of Thomas Paine: These are times that try men's souls. The summer soldier and the summer patriot will, in this crisis, shrink from the service to their country; but he that stands it now deserves the love and thanks of man and woman. 'Tyranny... Is not easily conquered; yet we have this glorious consolation with us, that the harder the conflict, the more glorious the triumph. What we obtain too cheap, we esteem too lightly: it is dearness, only, that gives everything its value, Heaven knows how to put a proper price upon its goods; and it would be strange indeed if so celestial an article as FREEDOM should not be highly rated. There were staunch friends of the struggling colonies even among English leaders. Some of those in Parliament gave warm support to the cause for which Americans were then fighting. One of them, the brilliant Edmund Burke, indeed, made what is esteemed by literary critics as among the finest of orations. This on the theme, Conciliation with America. Following are illustrative lines which show its high quality as well as expressing its sincere friendship for those fighting for freedom: The proposition is peace. Not peace through the medium of wat; not peace to be hunted through the labyrinth of intricate and endless negotiations.... It is simple peace sought in its natural course and in its ordinary haunts. It is peace sought in the spirit of peace. The use of force alone is but temporary. It may subdue for a moment, but it does not remove the necessity of subduing again; and a nation is not governed which is perpetually to be conquered. Burke's resolution was not passed by Parliament. He was of the minority party at that time. England, however, after about half a century, finally arrived on something of his high plane of thinking, and put his ideas into practice in governing its colonies. This, however, was after she had lost the richest of them all] ?our country. The time came, in the struggle, when American statesmen saw that the freedom sought could be won only through complete separation from the mother country. Our Continental Congress, after earnest consideration, finally unitedly took this step by adopting the Declaration of Independence drafted by Thomas Jefferson, with the help of the other members of the committee? ?Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, Roger Sherman, and Robert Livingston. Its opening lines strike the keynote with the assertion of "man's inalienable right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness," to secure which "governments are instituted among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed." A recital of the wrongs suffered through tyranny of a misguided king, is followed with the declaration severing all connection with the mother country; and then comes the solemn words: "For support of this declaration we mutually pledge our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred honor." After the signing of this document by all the fifty-three representatives of the Thirteen Colonies, John Hancock, president of the body, is reported to have said, "Now, gentlemen, we must all hang together." To which Benjamin Franklin returned, "Yes, or we shall all hang separately." It was a serious, courageous, 640 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT far-seeing action these stalwart Americans had performed that day. As a boy, the writer was brought close to the spirit of that first Independence Day by an unknown poet, who bequeathed to us the poem "Independence Bell." 'Though too young to get the full import of its meaning, the lad took delight in reciting its ringing lines. Among them, these: Will they do it? Dare they do it? Who is speaking? What's the news? What of Adams? What of Sherman? Oh, God grant they. Won't refuse! The story of the boy who stood waiting to give the signal that the Declaration had been signed, was especially stirring for another young American who liked to make these lines resound: Hush'd the people's swelling murmur As they listen breathlessly? "Ring!" he shouts; "Ring, grandpapa! Ring! Oh, ring for liberty!" Final lines from the patriotic poem echoed with waxing import with the years: The old State House bell is silent, Hushed is now its clamorous tongue, But the spirit it awakened Still is living, ever young. And we'll ne'er forget the bellman Who, that great day in July, Hailed the birth of Independence, Which, please God, shall never die. One thing that ever seems born of true inspiration is this: On the Liberty Bell is this line from Leviticus (25:10): "Proclaim liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof." What more fitting line could be chosen for that bell? Magnetized by the Declaration of Independence, true Americans 641 everywhere gave themselves to the testing task of maintaining their bold stand for freedom. The British, stung by the challenge, girded for the fight. A war, dragging through years, came with its discouragements, hopes, and tears. Yet steadfastness and sacrifice on the part of the determined patriots finally brought victory and peace for them. Their enemy, vanquished at last in 1783, signed the treaty that acknowledged the independence of America. A new nation, with boundaries extending from Canada to Florida and westward to the "Father of Waters" was born. Right of self-government had been established. More than this, out of the struggle had come a rich heritage of heroism. Out of the rich materials of this first war for freedom distinctive American literature, naturally, has been woven. Limitations of this study permit only a glance at some of the stirring poems and orations, and brief mention of some of the intriguing novels portraying characters, events, legends, and scenes of those days. Not many poems produced during the Revolution have survived. One that keeps its popularity this because of its sprightly rhythm and humor is "Yankee Doodle." It was created in derision of the ill clad American fighters by some "redcoat," and seized upon by the colonial boys as a battle song. In later years, our poets gave us poems that are vibrant with the spirit of the fight for freedom. Notable among these, are: "Paul Revere's Ride," already mentioned; "Song of Marion's Men," by Bryant; "Nathan Hale," by Francis Miles Finch; "Warren's Address," by John Pierpont; 642 "Molly Maguire at Monmouth," by William Collins; "The Old Continentals," by McMaster; ""Grandmother's Story of The Battle of Bunker Hill," by Holmes; and "Concord Hymn," by Emerson, from which the following stanzas are taken. It was sung when the battle monument at Concord was dedicated. By the rude bridge that arched the flood, Their flag to April's breeze unfurled, Here once the embattled farmers stood, And fired the shot heard round the - world.  Spirit that made those heroes dare To die, and leave their children free, Bid Time and Nature gently spare The shaft we raise to them and thee. Novels, portraying historical events and characters, are usually created some years after the dramatic occurrences have been enacted. This is to get the perspective and the romance, which can hardly be seen when too close to persons and happenings. To use an analogy: when one stands close to a mountain, one is likely to see its roughness, and little peaks may loom large. Set it off in the distance, shroud it in purple haze with a halo of sunset, and it becomes more mystic, more romantic. Its peaks, too, take on their proper proportions. Our war for freedom, in keeping with this illustration, was not portrayed in fiction until half a century or more had passed. Then we began to get such stories as James Fennimore Cooper's Spy based on the tale of a patriot who, at the risk of life and honor, served Washington. Hugh Wynne, Free Quaker, by S. Weir Mitchell, is another novel portraying the times around old Philadelphia. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1946 Janice Meredith, by Paul L. Ford, gives us an intriguing story of a patriotic girl of New Jersey at the time Washington was outmatching the British in that colony. The Seats of the Mighty, by Gilbert Parker, takes us into Canada during those stirring days. In The Great Meadow, by Elizabeth Roberts, we have pictured beginnings that led to the Revolution, and something of the training of Washington for his leadership. Rabble in Arms, by Kenneth Roberts, pictures the days that the Continental Army was finding itself. Drums Along the Mohawk, by Walter D. Edmonds, is another realistic picture of the struggle set among the settlers and Indians of Upper New York, with the Dutch General Herkimer as one of the leading characters. Richard Carvel, by Winston Churchill, gives us a portrayal of the war in the farther south. In Alice of Old Vincennes, by Thompson, we are taken into the Northwest Territory with the stalwart George Rogers Clark. Horseshoe Robinson, by John Pendleton Kennedy, is another novel much in spirit like Cooper's tales, but portraying characters and scenes during the fighting in the Carolinas. These are but a few ?those that have won favor with readers of the stories created out of the rich materials of America's first war for freedom. Obviously, in this necessarily brief lesson, only a few guidelines could be offered to those who would read the worthy literature portraying the days when America was fighting for liberty. What has been given, however, to interpret the inner spirit and true meaning of that struggle, should LESSON DEPARTMENT be of vital value in helping members of the class to find literature? songs, poems, orations, essays, dramas, and novels that are truly American in spirit. This study should also give real aid in the interpretation and evaluation of such literature. Discussion and Activities 1. "Sacred rights" is an expression in the opening poem. What would you give as one of these rights? Z. Why were the Americans so insistent that there be no taxation without representation? How is that principle protected for us today? 3. Under the direction of your class leader, take your part in preparing for a fifteen to twenty minute voicing of a few choice poems such as those named in the lesson which express, with artistry, the spirit, thought, or some stirring event of America's first war for freedom. 4. Join with class members in reporting briefly on some outstanding novel such as those named giving its plot, its major scenes, its main characters. Perhaps some brief scene from a novel could be read, 643 5. Select from the following list of names, one that suggests a story or saying that is linked with the Revolutionary War. Tell in a sentence what the name recalls: Ethan Allen Nathan Hale Betsy Ross Paul Revere Valley Forge Benedict Arnold Kings Mountain John Paul Jones Boston Tea Party Lexington Green John Hancock Lafayette Cornwallis Molly Pitcher Liberty Bell Anthony Wayne Francis Marion The Delaware Major Andre * Robert Morris General References Some good brief text on American history. An anthology of American poetry. Various novels named in this lesson. These may be found in public and home libraries. Paine, Thomas: "The Crisis." "Common Sense' and Burke, Edmund, Conciliation with America. Note: Many of the poems mentioned in this lesson can be found in school readers and school classics. Optional Lessons in Lieu of Literature THE GOSPEL AS A WAY OF LIFE Lesson 3 Faith Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, December 17, 1946 OUR children, ranging in age from four to nine years, were downhearted. It seemed to them that all the joy in life had suddenly ended. Their mother, a normally healthy woman, lay in bed, suffering physical pain and the discomfort of a high temperature. Father was at work, and the children, frightened by the illness that had come upon their mother, were in despair. Then the nine-year-old hustled the three younger ones into the back bedroom and said, "Let's ask Heavenly Father to make Mom better." Kneeling down, the oldest one prayed fervently to God for the 644 restoration of their mother. When she had finished her petition to the Almighty, she said to the others, "Mama will soon be well again." Returning to the mother's bedroom, they found their mother greatly improved. "Mama," said their spokesman, "Father in heaven is going to make you better. We prayed, and I know you'll soon be well." Within an hour she was about her household cares again, all signs of fever and pain having disappeared. This story is one of simple faith that has been duplicated many times in the lives of faithful Christians. Of course, the exercise of faith has not always met with such instant spiritual manifestations, for reasons which are beyond our understanding, but faith is the first principle of the gospel and it is imperative that we develop our faith to the utmost. In the eleventh chapter of Hebrews is found one of the greatest expositions of faith that is contained in the Bible. It defines faith as "... The substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen." Then the writer makes the declaration that through faith the worlds were framed by the word of God (Heb. 11:1, 3). From these declarations it becomes evident that faith is a principle of great power and constructive action. The following explanation of the nature of faith is very descriptive: Faith is a conviction, an attitude of mind, which is not certain knowledge and yet is an assurance far stronger than mere belief, hope or desire. We have a knowledge of things we have already experienced. Our knowledge relates largely to the past, including, of course, the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?SEPTEMBER 1946 immediate past. Faith, on the other hand, is pointed toward the future, toward the possible, toward the unexperienced or larger experience. A man of faith is hopeful, optimistic, courageous, adventurous, confident and forward-looking. Faith is like a searchlight casting its beam far ahead of its present position (Lowell L. Bennion, The Religion Of the Latter-day Saints, p. 115). When the Prophet Joseph Smith was listing the beliefs of the Latter-day Saints, he wrote, "We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are, First, faith in the Lord Jesus Christ...." This was not a mere chance statement. It was a declaration of the prime importance of faith in the life of an individual. It was placed first because upon one's faith depends one's progression. Without faith, one neither seeks to find God, nor attempts to make his life conform to the will of God. It thus becomes the starting point from which one progresses from a condition of ignorance of God and his commandments, to one in which the saving power of God is recognized. So important is the element of faith during mortality, that it is listed as one of the primary purposes for restoring the gospel to the earth. Perhaps the most detailed discussion of the nature of faith and how it can be developed and used is found in the Book of Mormon, Alma 32:16-43. Alma states that "... Faith is not to have a perfect knowledge of things; therefore if ye have faith ye hope for things which are not seen, which are true" (Alma 320). He then tells how one may develop faith, and his teachings are valuable because they are descriptive of the method that we need to use LESSON DEPARTMENT more and more in our present-day lives. But behold, if ye will awake and arouse your faculties, even to an experiment upon my words, and exercise a particle of faith, yea even if ye can no more than desire to believe, let this desire work in you, even until ye believe in a manner that ye can give place for a portion of my word (Alma 32:27). He further likened this experimental method of developing faith to the planting of a seed, which germinates and grows to a mature plant. In similar fashion, Alma admonished his hearers to nourish religious belief until it would grow into profound faith. But if you will nourish the word... By your faith with great diligence, and with patience, looking forward to the fruit thereof, it shall take root; and behold it shall be a tree springing up into everlasting life (Alma 32:41). When the preface to the Doctrine and Covenants was revealed, the Lord declared that because of his knowledge of the calamities that should come upon the earth, he had called Joseph Smith to instruct the inhabitants of the earth how to escape from the coming afflictions. He listed the purposes of the restoration, and one of them is stated as follows: "That faith also might increase in the earth" (Doc. And Cov. 1:21). From this statement it is apparent that the promotion of an increase in faith was an essential goal of the restored gospel. The coming forth of the Book of Mormon, the first vision, the visitations of Moroni, the restoration of the Aaronic and the Melchizedek Priesthoods, and the many revelations on doc- 645 trine and Church government were all calculated to increase faith in the hearts of men, if they would investigate the authenticity of these events and use Alma's method of developing faith. Of primary importance in the life of anyone who wishes to gain eternal exaltation is an unwavering faith in God the Father. We must study his teachings contained in the scriptures and learn his will concerning us. We must recognize him as the Creator of the universe, and as the Father of our spirits. A second requirement concerning faith on the part of the individual is that one must have an abiding and unwavering faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. To many people this requirement appears to call for nothing more than a passive acknowledgment and a confession of belief in his saving grace. The scriptures teach us, however, that this faith must become a dynamic, intelligent thing. We must study, investigate, pray, and gain a testimony of the reality of our Father in heaven. The next -step is to change our lives in such a way that we live in harmony with the spirit of Christ, and thus strive to make our lives Christ-like. True faith must be built upon a foundation of truth, and must be acquired through diligent study. The apostle Paul stated this doctrine | clearly in his letter to the Roman saints. He discussed the tenacious devotion with which the Jews observed the letter of their religious laws, and regretted the fact that their belief would not save them until they changed their ignorance of the truth for correct principles. Then he said: Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they may be saved. For I bear them record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge. For they being ignorant of God's righteousness, and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God (Romans 10:1-3). Paul's teaching indicates that much more than devotion is required faith must be based upon truth. Another requirement is that we have faith in the atonement of Jesus, and his redeeming power, and in the plan of salvation. Through this faith, we are enabled to overcome sin and forsake it. This faith will move us to action, whereby our faith will be manifest in our improved life and conduct. The gospel teaches mankind that no one should live exclusively within himself. Salvation is a collective ideal, designed to save all of God's children. Faith thus includes a belief in others. It asks us to love not only our neighbors, but our enemies as well. It requires us to forgive those who trespass against us. It demands that we work unceasingly to lead those who do not believe, to have faith in the gospel plan of salvation. It asks us to serve those in need, and divide our substance with the destitute. Nothing but an abiding faith in the Godhead and the gospel can lead men to have this great faith in others. Last, but by no means, least, we must have faith in ourselves. We must have faith that we are of divine origin, that our bodies are mortal tabernacles created by God, in which are housed his spirit children. When a person has attained this conviction, impure thoughts and vicious habits that corrupt the soul will be shunned. The Holy Spirit may then be the constant companion of that individual, to inspire and direct in pure thoughts, clean living, unselfish devotion to the cause of the Church and unlimited service to others. Questions and Activity Problems 1. Assign someone to search out important verses of Alma's discussion on the nature of faith and have them read in class. 2. List the five applications of faith that are discussed in the lesson. 3. Under what circumstances did Christ not perform mighty works? (See Matt. 13:53-58. Contrast with Matt. 17:14-21). 4. Suggest that during the discussion period some of the sisters might relate the methods by which their faith grew and increased until it became a conviction. References Smith, President Joseph F., Gospel Doctrine, pages 121-123. Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 270. Talmage, James E., Articles of Faith, pp. 96-108. Talmage, James E., Vitality of Mormonism, pp. 78-82. A Social Science The Family in the Gospel Plan NO social science lesson is printed in this issue of the Magazine as no lesson for this department is planned for the month of December, due to the holiday season. 646 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE SEPTEMBER 1946 AUTUMN HAS SPOKEN Dorothy ]. Roberts Sinks to Planissimo, and bound Is the living lute of wing and melody, The vital flow ls ebbed in bough and blade That through a gold and emerald period Has stirred into a lyrical cascade The summer's winged and Creeping myriad. The breathing wave of music now IS broken, Silencing cloud and clod -+ + Autumn has spoken, SS HEART'S REPLY (A Triolet) Anng Prince Redd From love that came on Wing-swift feet Eagerly and quite as fleet, To love that came on Wing-swift fect As light as thistle flying, Page 647 GOLDEN NUGGETS OF THOUGHT A charming little book that everyone likes. Pocket size carry it with you. Choice quotations from the writings of the wise. The title describes the book. 51.00 HIGHWAY HELPS LIGHTS ALONG LIFE'S GREAT HIGHWAY Short discussions (150 of them) on the gospel and other subjects. Each offers 5 to 15 minutes of inspirational reading and food for more and better thinking. $2.00 AND ALL LATTER-DAY SAINT BOOKS Wouldn't you like to have handy in your home, a price list of all the books of the Church? It is free to you for the asking. Just =e your name and address very plainly and mail to: EZRA L. MARLER BOOKS BY MAIL P. O. Box 267, Salt Lake City, Utah should always be the result when energy is expended. Yet, like a dizzily spinning top, many businesses go 'round in the preparation of advertising and get nowhere. Month after month, the same thing happens again and again and nothing is accomplished but the expenditure of dollars that could be made to produce results. The function of a printing organization today is to help clients to plan printing that builds sales? to take copy and dramatize it, make it so irresistibly attractive that it must naturally draw the reader's attention. The waste of which we speak is often due to lack of understanding. Realization of this has made us sales minded. Your selling problem, and our experience puts us in a position to print your sales story so that it will get results. THE DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah ASK FORA National Bist It's the Original KING JAMES VERSION (Authorized} "SINCE 1862 At YOUR BOOKSTORE A Cherished Gift for Christmas A CENTENARY OF RELIEF SOCIETY Limited number of this beautiful souvenir book, profusely illustrated, setting forth the history of the Relief Society from its organization in 1842 up to 1942, prepared by the General Board, now available at 50 cents per copy postpaid. Invaluable to all Relief Society members. A copy should be preserved in each Relief Society organization. Send to: General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 648 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine OFFERS YOUNG LATTER-DAY SAINTS Standard university training in world's finest social and spiritual environment at Brigham Young University PROVO, UTAH AUTUMN QUARTER DATES Preliminary Examinations and Counseling for New Students beginning September 25 Registration for Other Students September 30 MAKE YOUR APPLICATION EARL({ the | 57 So. Main St. LADIES 3?PART OCTAVO MUSIC Specially Suitable for Relief Society EYE HATH NOT SEEN (Gaul) _...12 HEAR MY PRAYER (James) _._....12 HOLD THOU MY HAND (Briggs).15 HOLY REDEEMER (Marchetti) _.15 JUST FOR TODAY (Ambrose) __..12 O SAVIOUR OF THE WORLD WIEGENLIED (Cradle Song? Mozart).; In Quantity Orders Laws 10%, Plus Postage. Schools and ae Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage Salt Lake City 1 "THE GOSPEL from discourses and writings of President John Taylo "THE GOSPEL THROUGH THE AGES" Milton R. Hunter $1.30 "GOSPEL DOCTRINE" "TEACHINGS OF THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH" $2 25 $1.50 Joseph Fielding Smith.... "THE WAY TO PERFEC- $2.50 9225 $2.25 TION" Joseph Fielding Smith DISCOURSES OF WILFORD WOODRUFF "GOSPEL STANDARDS" President Heber J. Grant BOOKS You'll Need for Reference Upon the following titles are based many important parts of the 1946-47 Relief Society Lesson Course: DESERET BOOK COMPANY THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST "BRIGHAM YOUNG, THE MAN AND HIS WORK" Preston Nibley "ESSENTIALS IN CHURCH HISTORY" Joseph Fielding Smith "ARTICLES OF a Cc T,) James E Talmage "EVIDENCES AND RECONCILIATIONS" John A. Widtsoe... "DISCOURSES OF BRIGHAM YOUNG" "RESTORATION OF ALL THINGS" Joseph Fielding Smith... $2.50 $2.00 $1.25 $1.85 $2.50 $1.75 44 East South Temple P. O. Box 958 Salt Lake City 10, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine (Goss-Ray) _. Music for L. President Joseph F. Smith Enclosed is ?$ Name = 15 S. Churches, AND Music for $2.50 Send the titles as checked above.. Address U. S. POSTAGE ? -2? Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH FOR YOUR DINNER TABLE NEXT WINTER SUGAR COMPANY
