
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1946

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford President
Marianne C. Sharp First Counselor
Gertrude R. Garff Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Edith S. Elliott
Leone G. Layton
Leone O. Jacobs
Mary G. Judd
Priscilla L. Evans
Blanche B. Stoddard
Velma N. Simonsen
Luella N. Adams
Florence J. Madsen
Evon W. Peterson
Isabel B. Callister
Anna B. Hart
Ann P. Nibley

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Marianne C. Sharp
Editorial Secretary Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 33 JUNE 1946 No. 6

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
Fasting Priscilla L. Evans 363
Isabel Barton Callister Called to General Board Lillie C. Adams 368
Contest Announcements 1946 370
The Settlement of Sanpete Valley Part I Leda Thompson Jensen 373
Women Poets in Review Part II Anna Boss Hart 378
A Compliment for Mom Olive W. Burt 382
The Price Marjorie M. Hamrick 387
Choosing Roses for the Home Garden Hazel D. Moyle 388
The 116th Annual General Conference Ramona W. Cannon 393
The Bennetts' Bookkeeping System Alice Whitson Norton 400
Only Human Marguerite J. Griffin 407
The Price T. A. Hunt 408

FICTION
Faith Is a Heritage Chapter 3 Christie Lund Coles 410

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 396
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 397
Editorial: "Enlarge Your Souls" Marianne C. Sharp 398
In Memoriam: Alice Robinson 399
Notes From the Field: General Activities and Special Programs General Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 417
Work Meeting: Mesh-Sack Magic 430

POETRY
For the Coming Night Frontispiece Grace Sayre 361
Dott J. Sartori 367
Jewel Box Jessie Miller Robinson 369
Sanctuary Alice Morrey Bailey 387
My Father Jennie Pyper Johnson 395
Peace in a Garden Celia A. Van Cott 395
Summer Song Margery S. Stewart 401
The Origin of Song Katherine Fernelius Larsen 407
Class Reunion Olive M. Nicholes 416
Little Quails Take to the Woods Lydia Hall 431
Mothers of This Day Gene Romolo 432

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 75,400
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FOR THE COMING NIGHT Grace Sayre Here in the shadow of the hill, I watch a lone star, white and still, On the cool bosom of the lake. _ I hear the whispering winds that shake A willow's lace above its breast... The pool is broken from its rest. The star is scattered into quills That tremble with the pool's small thrills. The voice of water singing low, The cool, sweet winds that come and go, All these the pictured pool, the lace Of. Willows lend enchanted grace; Serenest peace is on the land, The star, pool-bound, puts forth a hand And with slim fingers, shapes the light? A taper for the coming night. The Cover: "The Peace Rose" from a photograph by W. Ray Hastings VOL. 33, NO. 6 JUNE by Grace O. Danie: MEMORY GROVE IN SUMMER, SALT LAKE CITY Fasting Priscilla L. Evans Member, Relief Society General Board total abstinence from food and drink for a prescribed period, or it may mean only a certain restraint in respect to the partaking of food. Fasting is a very old practice, perhaps as old as recorded history. It seems to have developed out of the desire for proper preparation for communion with divinity; hence, its universal occurrence in some form or other in all religions. By curbing the appetites and the passions, fasting becomes a means of moral discipline and induces extraordinary receptivity to spiritual impressions. In the words of an ancient writer (Chrysostom), "it makes the soul brighter and provides it with wings to mount and soar." In ancient Israel, fasting was, in the earlier times, spontaneous not regulated by law. The purpose seems to have been to arouse Jehovah's pity (2 Sam. 12: 22); to avert national calamity (1 Sam. 31: 13) an expression of grief (2 Sam. 1: 12); or to render a man fit for special revelation or communication with God (Ex. 34: 28). When Moses received from God the Ten Commandments, he said:  "FAST" may mean either a When I was gone up into the mount to receive the tables of stone, even the tables of the covenant which the Lord made with you, then I abode in the mount forty days and forty nights, I neither did eat bread nor drink water: And the Lord delivered unto me two tables of stone written with the finger of God (Deut. 9:9). Daniel, before his communion with God, and the visions which he experienced, fasted: I ate no pleasant bread, neither came flesh nor wine in my mouth, neither did I anoint myself at all, till three whole weeks were fulfilled.... And I Daniel alone saw the vision; for the men that were with me saw not the vision.... Then said he unto me, Fear not, Daniel: for from the first day that thou didst set thine heart to understand, and to chasten thyself before thy God, thy words were heard... (Dan. 10: 3, 7, 12). Elijah's revelation, too, came to him after forty days and forty nights of fasting: And the angel of the Lord came again the second time, and touched him, and said, Arise and eat; because the journey is too great for thee. And he arose, and did eat and drink, and went in the strength of that meat forty days and forty nights unto Horeb the mount of God. And he came thither unto a cave, and lodged there; and behold, the word of the Lord came to him... (1 Kings 19: 7-9): The misfortunes that in later times befell the Jewish people brought about the establishment of many fast days. Some are days of penance and humiliation, but many are days of exhilaration and joy? festival. Days. And, too, fasting is prescribed on certain memorial days. An orthodox Jew fasts on his birthday after reaching the age of thirteen, and on the birthday of his Page 363 364 first-born son until the latter reaches the age of thirteen, both in commemoration of the sparing of the first-born of the Israelites in Egypt. The anniversary of the death of parents is also observed by fasting. Fasting with the Jews always means entire abstinence, and lasts from daybreak until "the appearance of the first three stars," excepting only on the Day of Atonement, when the fast begins with sunset of the preceding day. Children, pregnant women, and the sick are exempted from the observance of the fast. The Jewish Passover, combining the fast and its penance with the feast and its exhilaration and joyousness, is one of the greatest of all religious celebrations. It epitomizes the religion and aspirations of a great people, and has been celebrated with great faith and with earnestness for more than thirty centuries. The Passover is an inspiring festival, for it is filled with hope, and the ceremonies attendant upon its celebration are dramatic, depicting in action, by means of symbols, both the tribulations and the gladness of the Exodus. Since all, even the very poor, must share in the blessings of the feast, itis obligatory upon every Jew who can afford it, to contribute money to a fund out of which matzoh (unleavened bread) and other Passover necessities are provided for the poor and needy. This fund is known as Mo'ot Hittim (wheat money). The matzoh is made of dough that has not been fermented. The Israelites were commanded (Ex. 12: 14-15): And this day shall be unto you for a memorial; and ye shall keep it a feast to the Lord throughout your generations; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE 1946 ye shall keep it a feast by an ordinance for ever. Seven days shall ye eat unleavened bread... For whosoever eateth leavened bread from the first day until the seventh day, that soul shall be cut off from Israel. This deprivation is, of course, symbolic of the circumstances of the flight of the children of Israel to the Promised Land: And the Egyptians were urgent upon the people, that they might send them out of the land in haste... And the people took their dough before it was leavened, their kneading troughs being bound up in their clothes upon their shoulders (Ex. 12: 33-34). FARLY in his ministry, our Lord and Savior set the pattern and molded the ideas of Christianity in the matter of the fast, and this has been followed, in its simplicity, by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from its beginning. Although he himself fasted for forty days and forty nights before beginning his ministry (Matt. 4: 2), during his lifetime Jesus seldom referred to fasting. He left no regulations for the fast. He made it clear that his followers were expected to fast, described an acceptable fast, and left it to the Church to make rules for carrying out his teachings. In reply to the question, "Why do the disciples of John fast often.. And thine eat and drink?" he answered: "Can ye make the children of the bride-chamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them? But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then shall they fast in those days." Our Church has interpreted this to be a direct exhortation to fast when the Savior FASTING was no longer with his people in the flesh. In the Sermon on the Mount (Matt. 6: 16-18), the Savior condemns all ostentatious fasting and, at least by inference, all public display of contrition or humiliation. He said: Moreover, when ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance: for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast.... But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head, and wash thy face; That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret, and thy Father, which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly. In the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, a member learns in early childhood that fasting is a matter personal to each individual? a privilege with a blessing promised. He learns, too, that among the early revelations in this dispensation, the Lord revealed his will, even by way of commandment, in this manner: "Also, I give unto you a commandment, that ye shall continue in prayer and fasting from this time forth" (Doc. And Cov., Sec. 88:76). And from that time to the present day fasting with prayer has been a regular observance within the Church. The service which attends this day of fasting and prayer is unostentatious and simple as the Savior directed that it should be. In June 1833, the Lord, in a revelation given through the Prophet Joseph, commanded the saints to "build a house," and directed that the inner court "be dedicated unto me for your sacrament offerings, and for your preaching, and your fasting and your praying..." (Doc. And Cov., Sec. 95). The saints obeyed 365 this commandment, and the Kirtland Temple, the first temple built by special command of the Most High in this dispensation, was erected. We read that the temple was occupied by crowded assemblies on the first Thursday in each month, "that day being observed strictly by the Latter-day Saints, as a day of fasting and prayer." These meetings were called "fast meetings" and it is recorded that they were "hallowed and interesting beyond the power of language to describe." Eliza R. Snow thus wrote of these fast meetings: I have here seen the lame man, on being administered to, throw aside his crutches and walk home perfectly healed; and not only were the lame made to walk but the blind to see, the deaf to hear, the dumb to speak, and evil spirits to depart. On fast days, Father Smith's constant practice was to repair to the temple very early, and offer up his prayers before sunrise, and there await the coming of the people; and so strictly disciplined himself in the observance of the fast as not even to wet his lips with water until after the dismissal of the meeting at 4 P. M. (Andrew Jenson, Historical Record, pp. 74-80). Others of the early saints have testified to the faith-promoting experiences of the Thursday fast meetings in Kirtland. Zina D. H. Young and her brother, O. B. Huntington, in their youth attended these meetings. They have left vivid descriptions of these experiences. Zina D. H. Young, who became the third General President of the Relief Society, was fourteen years old when she came with her father's family to Kirtland. Late in her life, indeed when very aged, Zina spent several days at her brother's home in Springville, Utah, and they relived the fast meetings held in Kirt- 366 land. It is interesting to learn from their narrative that all labor was laid aside on Thursday just as on Sunday. The temple was always well filled, and after the opening exercises, Joseph Smith Sr., the father of the Prophet, would cause the curtains or "veils" (as the Lord had called them in the commandment) to be let down, thus to divide the room into two, three, or four spaces, so as to allow a number of persons to bear testimony simultaneously. All were given the opportunity to speak in tongues, sing in tongues, pray or prophesy, as the spirit might lead them. Many offered a prayer instead of speaking, and when doing so, they knelt, and sometimes all the congregation would kneel with them. Brother Huntington says: "Fast days in the temple were very notable occasions and were looked forward to with a kind of hallowed anticipation." (See "Fast Days in the Kirtland Temple," by O. B. Huntington, Young Woman's Journal, VIII, page 239.) The saints continued to observe fast day on the first Thursday in each month, but on occasion special fasts were observed. Because they were in dire distress and filled with anxiety during and immediately following the Nauvoo period, they sought guidance and assistance from God in fasting and prayer. Not only did they seek the favor of the Lord in this way, but they also gave their expressions of gratitude for favors received. The Prophet Joseph wrote in his diary on Tuesday, January 17, 1843: This being the time appointed by the Twelve as a day of humiliation, fasting, praise and prayer, and thanksgiving before the great Elohim, I attended a public RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE 1946 meeting in my own house, which was crowded to overflowing. Many other meetings were held in various parts of the city, which were well attended, and there was great joy among the people that I had once more been delivered from the grasp of my enemies. AFTER the saints established themselves in the Vallev. They continued to observe fast day on the first Thursday of the month, but on November 6, 1896, the First Presidency and the Council of the 'Twelve issued a proclamation changing the time for the observance of fast day to the first Sunday in each month. It has been so observed since that time. The saints thus assembled in prayer and fasting are privileged to make an offering for the care of the poor. We are taught that man may hope in vain for an answer to his prayers if these prayers come up before the throne of grace mingled with the cry of the suffering and the wail of the destitute and the hungry. This day of fasting and prayer, with the collection and distribution of the offerings of the day, is but one feature in the great system of active benevolence in the Church. But it is an important feature and a very old one. President Brigham Young tells us that "before tithing was paid, the poor were supported by donations" (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 262). Always a consistent advocate of the fast as a spiritualizing influence, President Joseph F. Smith, in clear and direct terms, expressed the law of the fast as today observed by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. He said: The law to the Latter-day Saints, as understood by the authorities of the FASTING Church, is that food and drink are not to be partaken of for twenty-four hours, 'from even to even,' and that the Saints are to refrain from all bodily gratification and indulgences. Fast day being on the Sabbath, it follows, of course, that all labor is to be abstained from. In addition, the leading and principal object of the institution of the fast among the Latter-day Saints was that the poor might be provided with food and other necessities. It is, therefore, incumbent upon every Latter-day Saint to give to his bishop, on fast day, the food that he or his family would consume for that day, that it may be given to the poor for their benefit and blessing; OT in lieu of the food, that its equivalent amount, OF, if the person is wealthy, 4 liberal donation in money, be so reserved and dedicated to the poor (Gospel Doctrine, page 306, quoting from Improvement Era, VI, Dec. 19?3- See also Editorial, Deseret News, Church Section, Dec. 1, 1945:) It must be recognized, too, that in addition to the increased spiritual strength attendant upon the fast, there comes a feeling of quiet re pose and a sense of well-being which is reflected in our physical selves. The abstinence is, excepting in rare cases, beneficial to health, and those individuals who are harmed by fasting are exempted from the fast. Upon the testimony of reputable physicians, the rest afforded the digestive organs during periods of fasting has definite curative powers. The brain 's stimulated during fasts and 367 intellectuality is increased. The public speaker, the singer, the pianist, and others whose success depends upon unhindered mental powers, soon learn that they can give their best effort when the stomach is unburdened. We should keep in mind always that the Lord has instituted this law; that it is simple and pet fect and if we observe it we shall learn that it is based on reason and intelligence. No harm, but only benefit, can come to one through a strict observance of the law of the fast. The spirit in which this commandment of the Lord is obeyed: s more important than the fastings and the prayers and the offerings. Is your fasting "acceptable"? Through the Prophet Zechariah, the Lord declared the "acceptable fast": cy and compassion every man to his brother; and oppress not the widow, nor the fatherless, the stranger, nor the poor; and let none of you imagine evil against his brother in your heart" (Zech. 7: g-10). Fasting is, of course, an act of temperance, a reverential abstinence, but it can find its full perfection only in following the admonitions of the leaders of the Church regarding the fast and the use of the offerings made possible by the abstinence. Ee THE POOL Dott J. Sartori The pool forever contemplates The colored world above, And bears upon its placid breast The mountain and the grove. | Isabel Barton Callister Called to General Board Lillie C. Adams President, Emigration Stake Relief Society ~ ISABEL BARTON CALLISTER HERE are four favorable factors that tend toward the perfection of human personality. They are: a noble heritage, a? rich environment, self-effort, and a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. These four qualifications are possessed by Isabel Barton Callister. With these important prerequisites she has made daily application of them through her diligence and obedience to all the gospel principles. Prophets have said that we should foster a love for religion, culture, and refinement, and we should develop faith, Page 368 save souls, and study and teach by precept and example the gospel of Jesus Christ. Isabel has followed this plan. Her maternal grandfather, Francis Armstrong, while on his way to California seeking gold, visited in Salt Lake City for a short time. He heard the gospel of Jesus Christ and decided that this spiritual message was greater than gold a real "Pearl of Great Price." With the help of his noble wife, Isabel Siddoway Armstrong, a handcart pioneer, he instilled in his children a desire to acquire a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Isaac Barton, the paternal grandfather, was bishop of the Nineteenth Ward for twenty years. Isabel has had a rich environment in her home life, as her mother and father were always interested in the worthwhile things of life. She was born in Salt Lake City, July 23, 1908, a daughter of Isaac R. And Sarah Armstrong Barton. Realizing that faith and works are necessary, she has pursued persistently not only her Church work but also has won distinction scholastically. She attended L. D: S. University and graduated, in 1926, as valedictorian of the class. Later, she attended the University of Utah and graduated in 1930 with an A. B. Degree, majoring in Latin. At the University, she was a member of the honorary fraternities, ISABEL BARTON CALLISTER Phi Kappa Phi, Beehive Club, and Mortar Board. On September 27, 1930, she married Louis H. Callister, an attorney in Salt Lake City, and a former member of the bishopric of the Eleventh Ward. They have two children, Louis Jr., eleven, and Sharee, nine. Isabel is a devoted member of the Church and has served in the Sunday School as a teacher. She has a strong testimony of the gospel and has followed the admonition of the apostle Peter:... Add to your faith virtue; and to virtue knowledge; 369 And to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience; and to patience godliness; And to godliness brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness charity. For if these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Crist (II Peter 1:5-8). Isabel Callister is a member of the University Ward, Emigration Stake. Her outstanding scholastic attainments, combined with her knowledge of the gospel and her devotion to the work of the Church, will make her a valuable addition to the General Board. She was appointed to her new position May 1, 1946. JEWEL BOX Jessie Miller Robinson No gems I crave I own Larkspurs of sapphire-blue, Fuchsias dropping rubies, Poppies of amber hue. Phlox, like amethysts, Pearl-daisies on the grass, Threaded with emerald, As down the path I pass. Faust's box of precious gems Could hold no lure for me? Flowers are lovelier Than stones of luxury. Contest Announcements?1946 HE Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest and the Relief Society Short Story Contest are conducted annually by the General Board of Relief Society to stimulate creative writing among Latter-day Saint women and to encourage high standards of work. Latter-day Saint women who qualify under the rules of the respective contests are invited to enter their work in either or both contests. The General Board would be pleased to receive entries from the outlying stakes and missions of the Church as well as from those in and near Utah. Since the contests are entirely separate, requiring different writing skills, the winning of an award in one of the contests in no way precludes winning in the other. Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest HE Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1946. Three prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize 2 $20 Second prize............---- $15 Third prize.................. $10 Prize poems will be published in the January 1947 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Prize-winning poems become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women, exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board, and employees of the Relief Society General Board. Z. Only one poem may. Be submitted by each contestant. Page 370 3- It is suggested that the subject matter of the poems be based upon the Utah Centennial theme or some other aspect of our pioneer heritage, however poems on other themes will be accepted; and the entries will be judged upon their literary merit and not upon the selection of subject matter. 4. The poem must not exceed fifty lines and should be typewritten, if - possible; where this cannot be done, it should be legibly written. Only one side of the paper is to be used. (A duplicate copy of the poem should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. ) 5. The sheet on which the poem is written is to be without signature or other identifying marks. 6. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the poem. 7. Each poem is to be accompanied by a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 8. A signed statement is to accompany the poem submitted certifying: a. That the poem (state the title) is the contestant's original work. B. That it has never been published. C. That it is not in the hands of an editor or other persons with a view to publication., d. That it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided.. A writer who has received the first O CONTEST ANNOUNCEMENTS prize for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 10. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all poems select- 371 ed for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. 11. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1946. 12. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Relief Society Short Story Contest THE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1946 opens with this announcement and closes September 15, 1946. Three prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize................-.$35 Second prize................$25 Third prize..................$15 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1947. Prizewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the contest: 1. This contest is open to Latter-day Saint women exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. For the 1946 short story contest (the prize-winning stories of which will be published in 1947), it is suggested that the subject matter might deal with a Utah Centennial theme, or with a theme inspired by the historical events associated with this occasion. Other themes may be used, however, and the prize-winning stories will be selected for their literary merit, and not for the subject matter used. 4. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. (A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. ) 5. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 6. A signed statement is to accompany the story submitted certifying: a. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared, or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication. ) b. That the story submitted (state the title and number of words) is the contestant's original work. C. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other person with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 372 7. No explanatory material or picture is to accompany the story. 8. A writer who has received the first prize for two successive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. G. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE 1946 is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. 10. Entries must be postmarked not later than September 15, 1946. 11. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. MY FATHER Jennie Pyper Johnson For Fathers' Day, June 16 I touched his feet, his aching feet That have trodden the narrow way, And I thought of the weary steps They had taken to reach today; I kissed his hands, his toil-worn hands That have known the feel of the sod, And thought of the seeds he planted In fellowship with God. I saw his face, his careworn face, Lined deep with the mark of the years; I saw the love that lighted the way Through the smiles as well as the tears. I heard him pray in humbleness? As good men pray for their own, And I knew that on the path of life He never had walked alone; He may be listed as common clay Along the path he has trod, And yet he ever holds a place With the noblemen of God. Photograph by Grace O. Tuttle The Settlement of Sanpete Valley Leda Thompson Jensen Former Member, Relief Society General Board PART I HE early history of Sanpete Valley is closely associated with the Ute Indians, a tribe of the Shoshone family, who claimed this rich Valley as their own before the white men came. From these Indians the names Sanpete and Sanpitch are derived. June 14, 1849, not quite two years after the first company of pioneers entered Salt Lake Valley, a delegation of Ute Indians accompanied Chief Walker to Salt Lake City to visit Brigham Young, with the request that settlers be sent to the valley of the Sanpitch River to teach the Indians to build houses and till the soil. "HIGH COUNTRY  The valley to which Chief Walker led an exploring party of four men, Joseph Horn, W. W. Phelps, Ira Willes, and D. B. Huntington, lay about a hundred miles south of Salt Lake City in the center of Utah. It was five thousand to six thousand feet above sea level, with the Wasatch Mountains to the east, the Sanpitch Mountains to the west, and the Sanpitch River flowing from north to south through the valley. The Indians treated the four men royally, and, after exploring the natural resources, they returned to report that everything was favorable for founding a colony. A company of about fifty families from Salt Lake City THE PLATEAU EAST OF SANPETE VALLEY Page 373 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE 1946 COUNTY COURTHOUSE, MANTI, UTAH Lake City and Centerville was organized and started for Sanpete Valley. They traveled due south to Salt Creek Canyon, the pass which connects Juab with Sanpete County. They cleared roads, built bridges, and successfully passed through the Canyon. Then they moved on to the present site of Manti, Utah. November 22, 1849, the first camp was made on the banks of the creek that flowed out of the canyon to the east. Wagon boxes were used as temporary homes. In a few days it began to snow, and it snowed almost continually until the ground was covered to a 'depth of three or four feet. The winter was very severe. The settlers moved from City Creek to the south side of the hill on which the Manti Temple now stands. Some of the families lived in dugouts. Two babies, born one January night, were wrapped in a large cowhide to keep them from freezing to death. After the camp had been made in readiness for winter, a company of twelve men, under the command of Jerome Bradley, returned to Salt Lake City for supplies. On the return trip, the supply wagons were halted in Provo because of Indian trouble and, when they reached Salt Creek Canyon in January, they were unable to get through the snow. Men on snowshoes with hand-drawn sleds made their way from Manti to the snowbound wagons over drifts eight to twenty feet deep. Many trips were made until the supplies were removed. The wagons were not able to get through the Canyon and reach Manti until the last day of March 18so. The men and boys were kept busy most of the time shoveling away the snow to bare the grass for feed for the cattle. Only 113, of the 240 head of cattle brought with them, were alive the following June; and only one team of horses had THE SETTLEMENT OF SANPETE VALLEY strength enough to pull a plow. The Indians camped around the colony and devoured the dead animals to keep from starving. Then came spring, and on the evening after the first warm day, the hissing of hundreds of rattlesnakes startled the colonists. Gliding from holes in the mountain, from under the rocks and the shelter of evergreens and shrubs, they writhed and wiggled about in beds, boxes, and cupboards, They attacked the horses and cattle. With the aid of pine-knot torches, the settlers united in warfare against them. One of the brethren killed thirty in one day. Nearly five hundred were killed in one night. The camp was finally rid of the reptiles. The most remarkable thing about the whole SHEEP ON SUMMER RANGE IN SANPETE COUNTY 375 incident was the fact that not one person was bitten. With the coming of spring, the land was plowed, seeds were planted, and, soon, fresh vegetables were available. The soil Proved very productive, and ditches were dug from the creek to irrigate the land. Notwithstanding his pleadings for white neighbors, Chief Walker frequently tried to stir up trouble. Had it not been for an aged, diplomatic chief, Soweitte, the inhabitants of Manti might have been massacred that first winter. Early attempts to make settlements at Spring City, Mount Pleasant, and Ephraim, north of Manti, failed, due to the depredations of the Indians who forced the venturesome pioneers back Manti, to the fort at 376 were made upon the settlements, cattle and horses were stolen, guards were killed and scalped, herders and wood haulers were attacked. The only flour mill in the Valley, located at the mouth of Manti Canyon, was burned after the miller and guard had been slain. The drivers of four teams of oxen hauling grain to Salt Lake were killed, the sacks were cut open, and the grain scattered and wasted. These incidents could be multiplied many times if all the hostile deeds of the Indians were related. The most bitter Indian trouble in Utah was centered in Sanpete County, with the Indians carrying on their depredations as far north as Payson in Utah County, and south to Richfield in Sevier County. Walker incited his braves to constantly harass the settlers from 1852 until his death in 1855. This period of warfare was known as the Walker War. Arropine, the brother of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE 1946 Walker, professed much love for the Latter-day Saints, and, as evidence of his friendship, deeded the entire County of Sanpete to Brigham Young for the benefit of the Church. The Indians saw their lands being taken from them. Land to an Indian is his means of livelihood, his wealth. At this time, also, the government was urging that the Indians be placed on reservations. Undoubtedly, these two factors combined, placed the Indians on the defensive and a number of incidents precipitated the worst Indian outbreak in Utah, which lasted three years (1865-1868) and was known as the Black Hawk War. The area of greatest conflict was centered in Sanpete and Sevier Counties. Small bands of Indians, twenty-five to one hundred in number, constantly harassed the settlements, taking the lives of at least seventy people, destroying thousands WHEAT FIELD IN "THE GRANARY OF UTAH" THE SETTLEMENT OF SANPETE VALLEY of dollars worth of property, and forcing an expenditure of $1,121,037 by the Territory of Utah. The help of the militia of the Territory and of United States Indian agents was necessary before a treaty was concluded by General Morrow of the United States Army at Mt. Pleasant, September 7, 1872. After this, the Indians were placed on reservations provided and maintained by the Government of the United States. In August 1850, President Brigham Young visited the first settlement in Sanpete, named it Manti, after a notable Book of Mormon city, and the county, Sanpete, after the Indian tribe inhabiting the -Valley, whose chief was Sanpitch. February 6, 1851, Manti was made a city by act of the Legislature, and, on February 3, 1852, a bill passed the Legislature creating Sanpete County. After the Walker War, settlements were made at suitable places in the County, the first successful attempt being made in the early spring of 1854, when Reuben W. Allred and fifteen families from Manti moved seven miles north to Pine Creek, the present site of Ephraim. Sporadic uprisings of the Indians made the building of a fort necessary, and the homes were built inside the enclosure. It was not until 1860, that the residents left the fort and erected homes on their city lots. The first two years in the history of Ephraim were days of trials and disappointments, which none but the most determined men and women could endure. The Indians were not the only source of dread and anxiety. A frost killed the first 377 crop of grain, and grasshoppers destroyed almost every other species of vegetation. The settlers men, women, and children fought day and night to rid the land of millions of grasshoppers which devoured everything they could. In 1857, a bountiful harvest encouraged and heartened those hardy pioneers, and the granaries were filled to overflowing with wheat. It was demonstrated that the climate and soil of Sanpete County were well adapted for the growing of grain, and, so bounteous were the harvests, that Brigham Young called the County, "The Granary of Utah." Most of the agricultural lands in the County required irrigation, which led to this science being thoroughly developed by the Sanpete pioneers. In the early sixties, thousands of bushels of grain went from Sanpete across the plains to feed the immigrant trains. Sanpete became an agricultural county of small holdings in farm property. Stock and sheep raising became supplementary industries. In the Production of wool and mutton, Sanpete County at one time lead not only the counties of Utah but all the counties of the entire United States. In March of 1859, Mt. Pleasant and Spring City were resettled and new colonies were begun at Moroni and Gunnison. In August and October of the same year, the sites for Fountain Green and Fairview were located and settled. In December of 1857, Bishop John E. Reese and Chief Tabinan discovered the first coal in Utah in the Sanpitch Mountains west of the (Continued on page 407) Women Poets in Review Anna Boss Hart Member, Relief Society General Board PART II MILY Elizabeth Dickinson? how well I remember the hour at Columbia University when I heard Martha Dickinson Bianchi review the life of Emily Dickinson. Lt was a hot afternoon studies were crowding me but I wanted to hear the niece of Emily Dickinson review the life of her noted relative. We sat in awe as Madame Bianchi entered the room, dressed in black and wearing a huge corsage of pink roses. How different from the delicate white flower Emily Dickinson ?her subject. Emily Dickinson, our distinguished American lyrist, whose poems number some fifteen hundred in all, wrote no prose except some remarkable letters which were published after her death. Her poems, always short and full of the most elevated and ideal thoughts, achieved unexpected popularity after her death and had, strange to say, a wider circulation than those of any contemporary poet. Only two of her poems were published during her lifetime. She was called "the modern Sappho," "a hermit thrush," "a New England nun'?this poet born in Amherst, Massachusetts, in 1830. Her father, Edward Dickinson, of an old Massachusetts family, was the leading lawyer of the town, served a term in Congress as a Whig, and was treasurer of Amherst College Page 378 which his father had founded. It is said of him that once he rang a fire bell furiously so that nobody would miss seeing a sunset. Emily attended Amherst Academy, spent one year at South Hadley Female Seminary, visited Washington and Philadelphia for a few weeks while her father was in Congress, was treated for eye trouble in Boston for part of 1864 and 186s, and died at fifty-five of Bright's disease. That is the record of her outward life. It is the least important thing about her. It would be interesting to write of Emily Dickinson's home, to tell about her family and the community of Amherst. Emily Dickinson, for twenty years, never went farther than her garden gate, saw no one but her family and a few chosen friends, dressed always in white, choosing the gardenia as her favorite flower. She wrote her poems secretly on scraps of paper, rolled and tied them with a thread, and thrust them into bureau drawers. Her personality was alive. There was an infinite sweetness in her voice, which was low and tensely appreciative. Her alert curiosity was a part of life that was youth and magic. She wrote of her environment as she grew to know it, step by step, discovery by discovery, truth by truth? until time merely became eternity. To her, nothing was mean or trivial, WOMEN POETS IN REVIEW and her "fainting robin" became a "synonym of the universe." She is appreciated by the unpoetic, the busy person, the young and old, the school girl and the poet. She is quoted in sermon and in conversation. Dr. John Erskine considered "It's All I Have to Bring Today" as one of Emily Dickinson's most perfect poems: It's all I have to bring today, This, and my heart beside, This, and my heart, and all the fields, And all the meadows wide; Be sure you count, should I forget, Someone the sum could tell, This, and my heart, and all the bees Which in the clover dwell. Here is another example of an exquisite lyric: I dreaded that first robin so, But he is mastered now, And I'm accustomed to him grown, He hurts a little, though. Emily Dickinson's implicit faith is shown in this one: I never spoke with God, Nor visited in Heaven; Yet certain am I of the spot As if the chart were given. Emily Dickinson was one of the American poets of her century who treated the great lyric themes of love and faith with entire candor and sincerity. "Valor in the dark she acknowledged as her Maker's code." There are many other women poets who have made a place for themselves in the last century. Some are living and some have passed beyond, but their poetry will sing on. 379 EDNA ST. VINCENT MILLAY PNA St. Vincent Millay, one of the most brilliant lyrists, was born in Rockland, Maine, February 22, 1892. She is known for her fine imaginative powers, for her sensitiveness to beauty. There is a rare whimsical quality in her poems. Many of her poems echo a response in our souls. "God's World" and her longer poem "Renascence," one of her earliest long poems, are full of unworldly ecstasy. ""Renascence" was written when Miss Millay was nineteen and it brought her name into prominence as one to be reckoned with in the field of lyric poetry. Do you know Adelaide Crapsey, another American poet, and the originator of the "cinquain"? She did most of her work in the last three or four months of her life. She died 380 early, a victim of tuberculosis. Seriously ill for over a year, she knew that her death was only a question of time, but she faced the situation with courage, and with a grim humor. This is one of her cinquains: Triad These be Three silent things: The falling snow. Before the dawn.. Just dead... The hour. The mouth of one Anguish Keep thou Thy tearless watch All night, but when blue dawn Breathes on the silver moon, then weep! Then weep! One could not mention women's names in poetry without naming Amy Lowell who is regarded as the chief American exponent of free verse. Amy Lowell was born in Brookline, Massachusetts, February 9, 1874, and was educated in the private schools of her native State. No biographical presentation of her would be complete without including the statement that her genealogical tree includes the name of James Russell Lowell, the poet. There have been many kinds of nature poets, but none exactly like Miss Lowell. She is the poet of that nature which is the product of landscape gardening. We can easily imagine ourselves in old secluded gardens, with fountains and statues and marble steps. "Patterns" comes to our minds, and other examples of colors, scents, and textures. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE 1946 SARA TEASDALE. ARA Teasdale is almost the direct opposite in poetry from the style of Amy Lowell. She was born in St. Louis, Mission, in 1884, and was educated in private schools in her home city. For the first time in the history of Columbia University a prize of $500 was presented for poetry and to Sara Teasdale for her volume of Love Songs poems of true lyric quality. Her lyrics do have subtle and beautiful word music, simplicity, and brevity. A number of her poems have been translated into French, Spanish, Danish, and other languages. It is no wonder that many of her poems have been set to music. They are pure lyrics. Spring Night The park is filled with night and fog, The veils are drawn about the world, The drowsy lights along the paths Are dim and pearled. WOMEN POETS IN REVIEW We love "Barter", which begins her Love Songs, and we remember "The Coin" and "Stars." She said about her own poems, "For me, one of the greatest joys of poetry is to know it by heart." Lizette Woodworth Reese is another American poet we must remember. Her work has an exquisite and serene distinction, a feminine tenderness we love. We must not forget poems like "A Christmas Folk Song" and her famous sonnet "Tears." -.. Make me see aright How each has back what once he stayed to weep: Homer his sight, David his little lad! And now we should mention in review a score of other poets who have found a place in the hearts of hundreds of people. Elinor Wylie has given us four books of poems, of which the last, Angels and Earthly Creatures, should especially be known. Marguerite Wilkinson, from Canada, has left her contributions and has introduced to us many new friends in New Voices. Another whose work is of exquisite technique and charming fancy is Grace Hazard Conklin, bom in New York City, and author of Afternoons of April and Wilderness Songs. Angela Morgan has stimulated her readers with her fervor and optimism. We should enjoy again Forward, March! Katherine Lee Bates has won her place in the hearts of hundreds of people through her poem "America the Beautiful." Americal Americal God shed his grace on thee And crown thy good with brotherhood From sea to shining sea! 331 There is a certain quaint "otherworldliness" about the poetry of Anna Hempstead Branch, a poet from Connecticut. Her prize-winning poem was "The Road 'Twixt Heaven and Hell." Josephine Preston Peabody Marks obtained the Stratford Avon prize in 1910 with The Piper. One of her lyrics of love is "The House and the Road." The little Road says, Go, The little House says, Stay: And O, it's bonny here at home, But I must go away. Today, Grace Noll Crowell and a host of others express notes of poetry often echoed in the hearts of readers. Doesn't this last stanza of "Recompense" express a satisfaction which life gives us? I never have been where the mountains stand, Majestic, aloof, apart, But nightly, the infinite, star-crowned heights Speak to my waiting heart, And mine are the winds that are mountain-born, And of seas, they are a part. And so the procession goes on and on these women poets in review. This is but a sampling of women poets in the world of literature. Those women of the Orient, those inspired Hebrew women, have not been mentioned. How interesting it would be to pause and greet our Latter-day Saint women who poured out their souls in song through the years. Let us enjoy these women poets we have greeted. Let us delve into the greatest and most universal thoughts with the greatest of women poets. A Compliment for Mom Olive W. Burt (This story relates another episode in the lives of the adopted children, Janet and Stevie. JANET, seeing that baby Carol J was asleep, wheeled the pram into the yard and around the house to her favorite spot under the apple tree. She placed the pram carefully, so that the baby would be protected from the direct rays of the early summer sun, and yet could benefit by the slight breeze that stirred the branches overhead. Then she flung herself on the grass and picked up the book she had been reading. It was a fascinating book, called "Ballet Slippers," telling about the struggles of a little girl Janet's age who wished to become a dancer. Janet was absorbed in the tale, and was not conscious that her parents were in the living room until she heard her father say, "Maybe she won't want to go." Her mother's voice answered earnestly, "But she must go, Robert! That's just the point of it she's altogether too wound up in us. She's got to learn that there are other people, other places, other things to do. It troubles me?" Janet's attention sharpened. She listened fearfully. The phrase "she must go" repeated itself over and over in her aroused mind. There was only one "she" in the house who could go. "Maybe you're right," her father said slowly. "But it's going to be hard for her and for Stevie and for us, too!" age 382 "IT know," her mother's voice was patient but determined. "But we've got to learn to get along without her as much as she has to learn to be away from us. Stevie, too. Janet's eleven, Robert. It won't be so many years before there'll be high school dances and excursions, girl chums, and boy friends. I'd never forgive myself if I selfishly or blindly permitted her to give all her time and affection to Stevie and Carol and us!" ' There was her father's indulgent laugh. "You're right as _ usual, sweetheart!" he said. "How much will it cost?" "Not much, Robert. I can pay for it with the money I've saved to buy me that extra summer dress. I don't really need it, you know." 'No, you can't do that, darling! We'll take it out of the education fund. After all, it is part of Janet's education, isn't it?" "But that's definitely for college! If we start dipping into it, it won't be there after while. When we need it. No, I'll. Use the dress money, please. I want to!" "But let me share it, sweetheart! After all, I've saved a little, too?" "For golf clubs, Robert!" There was silence, and Janet could almost see her father smiling and nodding. Then her mother said swiftly, "Of course, dear. Of course, you'd want to! It's settled then? I ll tell Janet today, and you back A COMPLIMENT FOR MOM me up. It may be difficult to persuade her but she must learn that she can leave our love and come back to it that it is a permanent thing, whether she is here or not." Janet laid her head on her arms and closed her eyes against the tears that pressed for release. So they were going to send her away, somewhere! They were going to send her away from Stevie, and baby Carol, and them! And it wasn't because she had been bad? it wasn't because they thought she wanted to go away it was simply because she had been very good and because they knew she wanted to be with them all the time. It was strange the way things worked out. When Mr. And Mrs. Allen had adopted Janet and Stevie two years ago, the little girl's greatest anxiety had been that she or Stevie might somehow do something that would make their foster parents regret taking them. For Janet knew that they had really wanted only Stevie, and had taken her only when they found that the two could not be adopted separately, and that Janet's anxiety to get her brother a home had been making the little girl very unhappy. But as the months had passed and Janet had become conscious that she and her brother had won secure places in their foster parents' hearts, she had grown to feel so secure that she had forgotten that they might ever be separated. Then baby Carol had come, and Janet had become completely enslaved to the adorable little tyrant. And now she would have to leave! For how long? Where would they send her? For awhile misery and questions blended into a suffocating torture. 383 Then Janet, going over and over the conversation she had heard, remembered something. Mommy was going to take the money she had saved for her new dress to pay for this thing. Daddy was going to put in money he had saved for golf clubs. It must mean a lot to them, then. Mommy had said, "She must learn our love will be here that she can go away and come back to it." This was a gift of love, then. What if she didn't want it? She couldn't let them know. She remembered how Stevie had offered his sixty-seven cents to help Uncle Jim get married. Uncle Jim hadn't wanted to take Stevie's money, but he had taken it. He had made Stevie think it was important to him. That's what folks did when they loved someone. So she would have to go away, smiling and laughing and pretending to be happy, even though she was miserable and lonely and did not want to leave them at all not even for one night. And this must be for quite a long time, if it took Mommy's and Daddy's extra money. WHEN Carol woke up and Janet took her from the pram into the house, she gave no sign that she had overheard the conversation that morning. Stevie came in, rumpled and dirty, from a romp with Spot and the new little boy down the street. Stevie had lots of friends? he never worried about leaving home. In the past two years his position had become, in his mind, absolutely unchangeable. At lunch, Mommy said brightly, "IT was reading in the paper about the Girl Scout camp, Janet. You hadn't told me about it, but it sounds lovely, doesn't it?" 384 So that was it! Janet thought. She said, "I forgot." "Miss Gleason was asking me if you didn't want to go. She says you're such a very good scout that she'd particularly like to have you." Janet wanted to say eagerly, "Oh, I'd love to go! I've been wishing I could!" but she couldn't quite make it. She said, instead, "That's what she said to me, too. But I told her I was going to take care of Carol this summer." "Yes," her mother agreed, "there is that to think of. But I believe I could get along for two weeks, if you'd care to go, Janet." Stevie said, his mouth full, "Soon as I can I'm going to be a Cub. Can I go to camp then, Mommy? Can I?" His mother smiled. "I hope so, Son," she said. "And if Janet goes she can learn a great many things you know, how to build a fire, and leather work, and about birds, and how to cook over a campfire. Somebody ought to know these things to help Daddy when we go camping." Janet managed a smile. "I ll go," she said. She couldn't bear the conversation. "Darling!" her mother said, looking at her strangely, "not if you don't want to! Not if you have to say, 'I'll go,' in that voice!" Janet gulped. Then she took hold of herself and grinned. "I want to go, really I do! I sort of wished I could!" It was all the enthusiasm she could muster. During the next few days Janet became rather adept at pretending enthusiasm for the trip. In fact, once in awhile she found herself actually thinking about it without RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1946 too much unhappiness, even with a fluttering interest. It would be fun to buy the things she needed the heavy oxfords and socks, the knapsack, the toothbrush and soap holder ? to mark her things, to leam to make her bedroll, if only these things had not meant leaving home! She had been to camp once before, with all the children at the Home, and she had thoroughly enjoyed it. But that was different. Stevie had been with her, then. There had been no baby sister to leave to all the unknown fortunes of two long weeks. Stevie didn't seem to realize what was impending. He was rather envious of all Janet's new things, of her being the center of interest, but he didn't actually realize that they would be separated until the very morning of her departure. Daddy and Mommy, with Stevie and the baby, drove Janet to the scout headquarters where the bus would pick her up. Janet hadn't been able to still the fluttering of excitement that made her cheeks pink under the freckles, though her feeling of loss was like a stone in her chest. The little girls and their parents were standing among bedrolls and suitcases on the lawn. Some were chattering and giggling, but others were standing, white-lipped, clinging to their mothers. Stevie stared at the group as his parents got out of the car. Then it burst upon him what this parting meant, and he grabbed Janet. "Don't go, Janet!" he begged. "Don't go and leave me! Take me!" His father looked at him and grinned. "Hey, Big Boy!" he said. A COMPLIMENT FOR MOM little girl in the seat beside ont want to Miss Gleason led the little girl away down the bus to sit beside her, Not her very Own mother? That made it even harder! Ly, homesick, little girl, herself keep up the role, she entered into all the Sports and activities: she elped Miss Gleason with the younger girls: she was a model of the good scout Was Teally fun and she was learning a great deal, By the second day the Omesickness was gtowing faint: by the third, she had actually become shut tight so that her Pillow would not be wet in the moming, have minded all this hidden agony if only the other girls 386 them up before the children as less than the wonderful people they were ?as painting a picture of her home that was ugly and false. Silently, she began to count the days till she could go home again and forget the whole ordeal. But when the last day came, Janet was sorry to leave the woods and the birds, the camp leaders, the fireside story hours, the hikes and outdoor games. Miss Gleason smiled down at Janet as she packed her things. "You look wonderful, Janet," she said. "It's been a nice two weeks, hasn't it?" Janet nodded vigorously. It really had. Then the parents began to arrive in their cars to pick up their daughters. Betty rushed to her mother, flung her arms about her and burst into tears. "Mama!" she cried, "why didn't you come before? I wrote to you I've cried and cried?" Miss Gleason said, very quietly, to Betty's mother, "Betty is not very well adjusted, emotionally, Mrs. Gray. I'd like to talk to you about it some day, very soon." Janet, standing near by, waiting for her own parents, thought, Miss Gleason looks mad at Mrs. Gray. I wonder why. Then the Allen car came into the yard, and Stevie was running toward her, yelling. Janet flung her arms RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE 1946 about her brother. Gosh, she told herself, you mustn't cry now. It'll spoil everything. She kissed her mother and father and the baby. "She said, eagerly, "I'm all packed and ready!" pointed to her bedroll. Daddy went to get it. "How has she been, Miss Gleason?" Mommy asked. Janet hoped Miss Gleason wouldn't look mad at Mommy as she had at Mrs. Gray. But she needn't have worried. Miss Gleason's eyes were warm and her smile was friendly. "Janet's been wonderful!" she said earnestly. "She's a beautifully adjusted child. You can easily tell which children come from happy homes?which ones know they are loved?feel secure and happy. I want to congratulate you, Mrs. Allen, on your little girl!" Janet felt a warm glow of gratefulness as she looked up to see how Mommy took the compliment. There were tears in Mommy's eyes. "Thank you," she said softly, and her arm about Janet's shoulders held her a little more tightly. In the car, with baby Carol on her lap, and Stevie snuggled against her, Janet let a couple of fat tears squeeze through her eyelids, as she whispered, "Coming home is the best part of it!" Then she added, honestly, "But I had a wonderful time. May I go next year, too?" "Check Your Driving, Check Your Car,'Check Accidents!" The Police Traffic Safety Check and SANCTUARY Alice Mortey Bailey The gardener kneels to work with simple faith, Observing laws of petal, root and spathe? So much of earth, and sun, so many seeds; He tolerates no parasites, no weeds. Beneath his hand a rug of sweet grass grows, And chapel walls of ivy, climbing rose. Soft pansies bloom like timid thoughts?in shade, And moonflowers glow at night afraid Of too much day. The cups of tulips lift In lovely hope; bright leaves entreat the gift Of heaven, offering sacrament. These preach The truth and beauty roots and branches teach; All of earth and sea and sky are here And no dissension rifts the breeze no fear. Upon his knees the gardener works the sod And humbly grows his little prayers to God. A ee On Courage Marjorie M. Hamrick i I could teach my children and others one thing, I believe 1 would choose courage, the kind of courage that is an integral part of faith and love an indomitable courage that nothing could shake or move from its place. Life is never one smooth path. The more rugged the slope, the more effort the climber must make, and the more strength it gives to him. The higher one climbs, the broader the view, and the farther one can see into the distance. It is well, too, to remember that the higher the mountain, the more intense and furious the storms, but, after the storm, the rarer and finer and purer the air, and the more beautifully the sun shines. And so it is with life, the deeper the despair and the gloom, the more we appreciate the sunny places the happy days. And so, by struggle and a continual contrast, we progress and grow grace in the sight of God and man. Page 387 Choosing Roses for the Home Garden Hazel D. Moyle In the time of roses Hope thou, weary heart: Spring a balm discloses For the keenest smart. Though thy grief o'ercome thee Through the winter's gloom, Thou shall thrust it from thee When the roses bloom. Anonymous IN every age since the days of Isaiah, poets have sung of the beauty of the rose, the most loved flower of all mankind. It has been a source of inspiration in song and in story since the beginning of time. Kings and queens have paid court to its charms and have willingly bent the knee to cultivate its beauty, while it has been treasured in the gardens of the humble and poor wherever flowers have been cultivated all down the centuries. Rose lovers of today should give thanks that we are privileged to live in the greatest age of rose growing ever known to man. Not only do we enjoy roses during the month of June, the traditional rose month, but modern hybridization has extended the rose-blooming season to continue throughout the entire growing year. Until recently, roses bloomed only in June, with perhaps an occasional later bloom, but the modem rose garden produces roses during every month from May until frosts come to stop all blooming. We also have more kinds and Page 388 varieties than were ever dreamed of by rose lovers of former ages. The most distant lands have been combed by plant hunters to enrich our gardens, but by far the most important modern rose development has been the advent of the everblooming hybrid tea rose which is now so universally grown as to almost crowd other types out of our gardens. We must give credit for this new type of rose (which has made rose growing so popular in almost every back-yard garden) to a famous woman of history, none other than the Empress Josephine, wife of Napoleon the Conquerer. Josephine occupied, perhaps, the highest place ever graced by any woman when she reigned for a short time as empress of a good part of the world. But this exalted position did not prevent her from being an ardent and practical gardener and botanist. The rose was her favorite flower and it was her greatest joy to steal away from the demanding formality of official life to her country home, Malmaison, where she practiced the gentle art of growing roses. History records that, so ardent was Josephine's love of gardening, she even incurred the disapproval of her royal lord and master, Napoleon, who protested at her garden extravagances, a situation not unfamiliar to many a common, back-yard gardener of today. CHOOSING ROSES FOR THE HOME GARDEN It was Josephine's hope to assemble a plant of every known rose in her garden, and she commissioned all botanists, plant hunters, travelers, and even Napoleon's great military expeditions, to bring back new kinds of roses from foreign 389 lands far and wide. At length, she secured 250 different kinds, which included practically all known species and varieties of that day. But, like every true gardener, Josephine was not content with this accomplishment, and she constantly Photograph Courtesy of Jackson and Perkins Company, Newark, New York HYBRID TEA ROSE "MANDALAY" 390 encouraged botanists and nurserymen to practice the then new art of hybridization, in order to create still other improved rose varieties. Under her patronage, many new roses were developed by this method, and it was during this colorful time that the custom of naming new roses began. Most of the new roses were named after the burly and rough generals of Napoleon's army, the popular heroes of that militant age. A few years later, another new rose came from China which bore small flowers not only in June, but in succeeding crops, month after month. This became known as the China Tea Rose. Rose hybridizers pollenized this everbloomer with other large-flowered June roses, and the result was the lovely La France rose, the first of all the hybrid tea roses. This important event occurred in the year 1867, and it ushered in our modern age of everblooming roses. Plant hybridizers of every country, including France, England, Ireland, Denmark, Germany, Spain ?not forgetting our own United States?all produced famous rose hybridizers who were constantly striving to create more and more lovely, better, bigger, and finer, everblooming roses. This world-wide interest accounts for the welter of strange and foreign names of our roses. We now have roses bearing the names of kings and queens, presidents, imperial potentates, actresses, duchesses, German frauen, and Spanish senoras, as well as plain Margaret McGredy?even little Dainty Bess, whoever she may be. Such a teeming multitude of strange names confronts any new convert to gardening, that many RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1946 have been known to cry out with Shakespeare's Juliet, "What's in a name? That which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet." cannot choose blindly from this confusing abundance of varieties, for we soon learn that roses are much like human beings; they have their individual faults and good qualities, their likes and dislikes, their queer traits and peculiar characteristics. We must grow them in order to know them well. Many an amiable-appearing rose turns out to be a stingy, poor bloomer, or perhaps one that tums an unpleasant purplish color when fully open; or it wilts down at the first warm hint of the sun. Many varieties actually attract the villainous rose beetle, while others are prone to mildew. Another bad fault is that of "balling" the buds in wet weather, so that they do not open, but remain a poor blob of unpleasantly limp petals. It behooves the ordinary home gardener to choose those roses of proven worth in the community, rather than the new varieties that are so enticingly offered, for many of these newcomers will prove disappointing. Let us name a few varieties that have won universal approval: Of red roses, we can safely select the variety Crimson Glory as perhaps the finest red rose of today. One might term this the perfect red rose, so rich is its color, so lovely its form, so generous and constant its bloom. It is universally acknowledged as "tops" in its class. But we must also name another older (and cheaper) red rose that CHOOSING ROSES FOR THE HOME GARDEN Photograph Courtesy of Jackson and Perkins Company, Newark New York HYBRID TEA ROSE "MARY MARGARET McBRIDE" is also near perfection, the variety Etoile de Holland. This, too, bears large blooms of clear, rich color and reliable blooming habit. "My love is like a red, red rose, that's newly sprung in June," sang Bobby Burns. At poems he would write to these modem blooms! Next we mention a rose that deserves to be in every garden because of its strong, sturdy nature, its beauty and prolific bloom ? the President Herbert Hoover. No other variety gives more for the space it occupies. Few roses come up to it in desirability, especially 392 "PRESIDENT HERBERT HOOVER" during the fall months when its blooms of warm pink, overcast with sunset tones, develop to their fullest beauty. For years this rose has been voted as the favorite variety in the yearly rose poll taken by the Utah Rose Society, only last season having the red Crimson Glory tie with it for first place. The last named, together with the two Radiance roses, the pink and the red, should be grown by all gardeners living in colder sections of the country, for these are among the hardiest of all roses. Pink roses are a favorite of almost every rose lover, and there are many excellent ones of this color. Dame Edith Helen is a magnificent pink rose, but we must whisper that this is definitely a sparse bloomer and to be classed among the stingy ones. Yet when it does deign to bloom, it RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1946 is well worth waiting for. Our own choice of all pink roses to date is the fairly new one called The Doctor, an amazing flower of dazzling size, sparkling color, and outstanding keeping qualities. Give this variety good care which means an occasional mulch of manure and plenty of moisture and it will reward you with great blooms of excellent substance that last almost twice as long as most other varieties, both in the garden and when cut. Fine perfume is another of its good qualities. Our second choice of pink varieties is Miss Rowena Thom, child of the sturdy Pink Radiance. This rose inherits its parent's hardiness, with blooms of a size to almost vie 'with The Doctor. Countess Vandal has won a high place as a flower of exquisite perfection and almost indescribable coloring, a warm yet delicate pink overlaid with yellow tones. This rose appears in lists of favorite varieties in all sections. Many rosarians name it as a favorite. Good yellow roses are not plentiful, but the variety Eclipse has won a sure place for its lovely buds and fine, clear, lively yellow color. Of the newer varieties, Mandalay is one of the best, an elegant and large rose of glowing, clear golden color. Max Krause is also very fine, an excellent yellow of sturdy habits. Make the acquaintance of these beautiful roses in your neighbor's and near-by gardens while they are blooming this summer and fall, and make your selection of varieties to plant next spring so that you, too, can have lovely roses to contribute beauty during the Centennial celebration, as well as all down the years to come. The 116th Annual General Conference Ramona W. Cannon The many thousands who listened to the 116th annual general conference of the Church, held on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, April 5th, 6th, and 7th, 1946, were comforted by the proceedings with a deep sense of spiritual peace and joy, with inspiration to nobler living, and with the renewal of a pure and simple faith in God, his work upon the earth, and his promises of continued and glorified existence after death. The two meetings held on Friday, the two on Saturday, and two on Sunday, as well as the priesthood meeting held Saturday night, were all broadcast over Radio Station KSL. Elder John A. Widtsoe gave the Church of the Air radio sermon on Sunday morning, "Faith Under the Atomic Bomb," and at 9:30 A. M. Sunday, the Tabernacle choir rendered its 873d consecutive national Sunday broadcast. The opening and closing prayers by mission presidents and stake leaders were particularly thoughtful and appealing, imploring aid for the meek and suffering of the earth, for the leaders of the nations, for those who guide the Church, and for all Latter-day Saints. At the two sessions on Friday, April 5th, the music was provided by the Relief Society Singing Mothers of the Salt Lake region, under the leadership of Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen, member of the Relief Society General Board. The selections rendered were very choice and beautifully executed, and were inspiring to hear. The Singing Mothers and the Relief Society organization received high praise from President George Albert Smith and other speakers. The music of the great organ touched the hearts and brought a tender mood to the congregation. It was magnificent to hear and to see the vast throngs (probably numbering a full 10,000 at each session in the Tabernacle) singing with spirit the familiar and beloved songs of Zion. President George Albert Smith, in his opening talk at the first session, made reference to the spirit that becomes a part of certain places and buildings. In referring to the Tabernacle, he said, "It was erected in the poverty of the people and no other place like it may be found in all the world. Often, when it is vacant, there is a spirit here that you will find in few places in the world. Many people have come here on a busy weekday as tourists, and as they have come under the shadow of this roof and looked through the building and have seen this great organ, with everything quiet, many of them have been moved to tears by the inspiration and influence they have found here." Much of President Smith's address was devoted to the theme of the closeness of God to his children. "What a comfort it is to Page 393 394 realize that there is no mistake about it, we are the children of our Father in heaven, that he does love us... That he does interest himself in our affairs. We are here as sons and daughters of the living God, trying to work our way through until we shall be worthy of an exaltation in the celestial kingdom. What a privilege it is!... I hope that we will come with a prayer in our hearts that those who address us may draw the inspiration from our Heavenly Father necessary to feed his flock." President Smith made a plea that the President of the United States, and those working with him, might live in such a way as to merit the guidance of God. He also expressed deep sympathy for the suffering people of Europe. In the priesthood meeting on Saturday evening, he spoke of the value of an individual testimony of the gospel, and marveled how people could lose their faith by substituting the philosophies of men for the revealed truth. "The philosophies of men... Will never lead anybody into eternal happiness, nor help them to find a place in the kingdom of our Heavenly Father," he declared. At the opening session of conference, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Read the financial report of the Church. Those listening were gratified by the growth of the Church as revealed in its financial matters, and rejoiced in the account of the welfare work accomplished, especially the sending of carloads of clothing and food to the suffering European saints. Saturday morning, President Clark in his address, stated that the only RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE 1946 way to obtain relief from the sorrow, apprehension, and anxiety that overshadow all of us, is to have a firmly rooted testimony like that of Job: "Yet in my flesh shall I see God." He cited other great testimonies connected with the life of the Savior, such as those of Simeon, Anna, and Peter's great utterance recognizing Christ as the Son of the living God. The same kind of testimony, he stated, actuated the Prophet Joseph Smith and has actuated Church members up to the present day. Anyone desiring a testimony may, through prayer and living the commandments of God, obtain such a testimony through the ministration of the Holy Ghost. President Clark, at the priesthood meeting, called for a unity of the priesthood, stating that such unity "would wield an influence that would affect the course of world affairs. He read and briefly answered a list of ten heretical doctrines that are creeping into some Latter-day Saint circles and are destructive of faith. President David O. McKay spoke, on Saturday morning, on the forthcoming Centennial celebration of the coming of the pioneers to Utah, to be held May 15th to October 15th, 1947. He reported that, on account of the shortage of housing accommodations for tourists, the celebration will be principally by and for the people of Utah. Besides using the best that home talent can produce, it is proposed to bring to the State some outstanding educational and entertainment features, symphony orchestras, stars of stage and screen, a national eisteddfod, and sports events. President McKay asked that all citizens co-operate with the mayor and officers of Salt Lake City and other cities of the State in their efforts to reduce lawlessness and vice. He urged the beautifying of our surroundings. "Every man, woman, and child in the State should sense a responsibility to do something to make the State clean and attractive." He stated that the appearance of churches, seminaries, and other Church properties should be improved by suitable landscaping, by painting, and by effecting needed repairs, and that vacant lots should be cleared of weeds and debris. "Make Utah a rose garden by planting additional bushes in every yard; remove all dead trees from the landscape," President McKay also suggested. Speaking on the same subject? the Centennial Elder Stephen L Richards expressed the hope that Latter-day Saints would do their utmost to make this consecrated land "reflect here the minds of those noble men and women who left it as a heritage to us." A letter from Elder Ezra Taft Benson, who is presiding over the saints in Europe, was read Sunday afternoon by President George Albert Smith: Destruction, hunger, and anxiety are on every hand. Many of our saints are without home or country... In the midst of all this there is but one soul-satisfying refuge, the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. The faithful members of the Church face the future with courage undaunted. This is in great contrast to the melancholy, suicides, and discouragement all around them. Powerful testimonies to the divine calling of the Prophet Joseph Smith were given by many of the speakers, who declared that an impostor cannot make history, nor wear the mantle of a prophet. Elder Albert E. Bowen drew a parallel between the iconoclastic writers of the present, who "debunk" George Washington and Abraham Lincoln, and those who approach the Prophet Joseph Smith, and even the Savior of the world, in the same fashion. He exposed the spurious nature of some documents strongly relied upon as furnishing support for certain assertions concerning the Prophet. President George Albert Smith stated that those who belittle the Prophet Joseph Smith "will be forgotten in the remains of mother earth and the odor of their infamy will ever be with them, but honor, majesty, and fidelity to God, exemplified by Joseph Smith and attached to his name, will never die." Among the other subjects stressed by speakers at this conference were the great need for missionaries to carry the gospel to all parts of the earth, and the necessity for Latter-day Saints to uphold the Constitution of this country which guarantees our freedom, bought at so dear a price by our forefathers. PEACE IN A GARDEN Celia A. Van Cott My garden is a friendly place, I neighbor with the flowers; Each one's a personality, I chat with them for hours. THE 116TH ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE 395 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, June 1, and June 15, 1886 For THE Rights OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN of ALL NATIONS FAULT-FINDING: We are all too liberal in showing to the world the faults and weaknesses of our fellow beings. Why do we not stop and scan our own selves and see if all is well if we have not the misfortune to possess some little trifling faults, perhaps unperceived by us, still plainly visible to others? Faults that, however small they appear, will balance equally with the larger, and seemingly more important faults in our neighbor?... Let us cease all such immoral habits, and form in our minds resolves of reform; let us place, in the distant future, a mark to guide us as we journey on through life, and with that mark in view, let us strew along our pathways deeds of love, of kindness, and of truth, that we may thereby lay up treasures in heaven. Hyacinth  HOME AGAIN: At last, after an absence of some months, traveling hither and thither, up and down, visiting scenes of interest and places specially dear on account of childhood's associations, clasping the hands of those of our own kindred from whom we had been many long years separated, and sojourning sometimes temporarily among strangers, it is particularly pleasant to be home once more among the Saints, and to meet the kindly and cordial welcome from familiar friends and acquaintances... The city, too, is in its most beautiful attire, and the air is fragrant with the perfume of roses and honeysuckles, and everything seems to denote happiness and comfort, and nature rejoices upon her thousand hills and in her peaceful vales. Zion is indeed beautiful Editorial by Emmeline B. Wells BRIGHAM YOUNG For His Birthday, June 1st For more than thirty years was he The mouth piece of the Lord; And thus by revelation taught The precepts of His word; And, Moses like, when full of years, F He left his labors here; "T was but to labor in God's cause, Though in another sphere. ?Hannah Cornaby DESERET UNIVERSITY: If I say that a great future is opening up before you, I say it not with the tongue of flattery, but with the solemn voice of friendship. Whether you become great to correspond with that future is another thing entirely, and depends largely upon the uses to which you put the time allotted you, and the talents with which you are endowed. These may be many or few, but they are a sacred trust, a stewardship, for which an account must some day be rendered to the Almighty Giver. It is our duty to ourselves and society to prepare for the responsibilities which life imposes, and then discharge them faithfully and fearlessly. Address by Chancellor O. F. Whitney delivered at the graduation exercises at the University of Deseret. Page 396 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon RISCILLA L. EVANS (Mrs. Frank Evans) of the Relief Society General Board has been re-elected to the post of corresponding secretary of the National Council of Women of the United States. Mrs. Evans was a delegate from the Relief Society to the national organization six years ago when she was serving as a missionary in the Eastern States Mission over which her husband presided. At that time she was made corresponding secretary and has held that office ever since. She will serve two more years. She accompanied President Belle S. Spafford and Edith S. Elliot of the General Board of Relief Society to the inter-continental congress of the National Councils of Women of the United States, Canada, and some of the Latin-American countries held in New York City, May 6, 7, and 8, 1946. MARGARET WEBSTER, daughter of Dame May Whitty, and Eva La Gallienne are two of the leading spirits in a group which will establish an American Repertory Theater. They will produce the plays of all countries which reveal the profounder aspects of society. Public subscriptions to support the movement will amount to $300,000. The first season six plays will be produced, three different ones being presented each alternating week. The companies will tour America from coast to coast.  WALTER A. KERR is the Utah State director of the Global Thinkers, an adult educational society, non-sectarian and non-partisan, the purpose of which is to establish woman's place in the new world. 'The society discourages drinking and smoking among women and girls, and stresses personality, intelligence, and charm. The society, incorporated in 1943, has grown rapidly and sends out four times a year, for discussion among its members, literature of a high order educating people to every phase of these habits. Men, as well as women, belong and take an active part on the programs. Each adult member may sponsor a junior member, beginning with girls in the ninth grade. RS. YSABEL F. RENNIE, as a recipient of a traveling fellowship from Radcliffe College, lived in Argentina from 1941 to 1943. She has written The Argentine Republic, a scholarly and understanding, yet lively and colorful, book on that enigmatic country. OW that the war is over, international interchange of scholars is again becoming effective. In Columbia University, New York City, women and girls are enrolled from many countries, among them Peru, the Philippines, South Africa, and China. 2 Page 397  EDITORIAL  VOL. 33 JUNE 1946 N Enlarge Your THE prophets of the Lord from the Prophet Joseph Smith down to our present prophet, President George Albert Smith, have all given words of counsel to the members of Relief Society. Because they have spoken under inspiration, their advice is applicable to Relief Society members of any day. When a member may be in doubt as to the proper course to pursue, or when she feels the need of counsel, and may desire to improve her life, she can always find inspiration and instruction in the words of the prophets. After the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society, he met with the members often to give them instructions. At a meeting held on March 28, 1842, he told the sisters: Those ordained to preside over and lead you, are authorized to appoint the different officers, as the circumstances shall require. At that same meeting he also gave:. Instructions respecting the different offices, and the necessity of every individual acting in the sphere allotted... Her, and filling the several offices to which they are appointed. He spoke of the disposition of many. To look with jealous eyes upon the standing of others who are called to preside over them... That it was better for individuals to magnify their respective callings...  beware of self-righteousness, and be Page 398 limited in the estimate of your own virtues and not think yourselves more righteous than others; you must enlarge your souls toward each other, if you would do like Jesus.:. You must be long-suffering, and bear with the faults and errors of mankind... Let kindness, charity and love, crown your works henceforward (D. H. C. IV, page 603 ff.). These instructions, given only eleven days after the organization of Relief Society, were necessary to the understanding of the sisters of that day. These pronouncements have been followed and have prescribed the administrative policy of the Society for a hundred years. Relief Society members are all sisters in the gospel, but members of a Relief Society unit may be appointed, by those ordained to preside over and lead them, to different offices as the circumstances shall require. When any Relief Society member is thus called to fill an office of the Relief Society, it is the duty of all other members to sustain this sister, called to preside over the rest, with full loyalty, devotion, and with singleness of heart. Other members, endowed with different talents and. Capabilities, may be called to fill other offices until the organization is completely officered. The duty of each member of Relief Society is twofold: first, to sustain with every power at her command those who have been called to preside over her in any capacity; and second, to magnify her own EDITORIAL calling with every ability at her command. By following these two rules, no taint of criticism or jealousy will find lodgment in the heart of any Relief Society member. On _ the contrary, her devotion to the Society and her unselfish works will constantly enlarge her soul; and the work of Relief Society that of self-improvement and loving service for others will show a marvelous growth. By the united support of the other Relief Society members and through her own prayerful efforts, even a timid sister or one who does not feel herself to be capable of assuming the leadership of a Re- 399 lief Society, will be blessed and strengthened to carry on her work successfully; and, with the policy inaugurated in recent years of releasing officers at more frequent intervals than in earlier years, the terms of office have been shortened and many more women thus become trained in leadership. Only as each individual Relief Society member forgets self and strives through prayer and good works to enlarge her soul, will kindness, charity and love crown her works; and Relief Society fulfill its destined place in furthering the work of the Church. In Memoriam Alice Robinson Richards THE General Board of Relief Society and the membership in all the stakes and missions of the Church pay loving tribute at this time to the memory of Sister Alice Robinson Richards, wife of President George F. Richards of the Council of the Twelve Apostles. Sister Richards passed away April 21, 1946, at the age of eighty-one. Sister Richards, the devoted mother of fifteen children, was an ardent worker in the auxiliary organizations of the Church, and a faithful and inspiring missionary. She accompanied her husband on many of his journeys and was with him during the last part of his presidency of the European Mission. She will be remembered with love and appreciation by thousands of temple workers who recall her faithful ministry as Salt Lake Temple matron from 1921 to 1937. Sister Richards lived a full life, a life of service, kindness, and devotion. She will be long remembered by the women of the Church as an ideal mother in Zion. <i ?? Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her... She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life... She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her. Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all. Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain: but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates. (Proverbs 31:10-12, 27-31). The Bennetts' Bookkeeping System Alice Whitson Norton in the little country town of Martin. Mr. Bennett had come from some northern town to take charge of the bookkeeping department in Lloyd Brannon's grocery. At the end of a two months' trial, both parties were very much pleased with each other, so Mr. Bennett's family moved in. Such a nice family they were, too? such an addition to the town. They didn't wait to be invited to the Church services, but the first Sunday of their sojourn in Martin found the family uniting with the Church; and during the week that followed, the girls, two in number, joined the Mutual Improvement Association and asked for cards of admission to the library. The boy, whose name was Bob, in less than ten days had proved himself a star on the Martin baseball diamond, and was looked upon as a very desirable addition to the Boy Scouts. Of course, there were some who predicted the Bennetts' splendid beginning wouldn't last, but, as time passed, the skeptical were convinced that the Bennetts hadn't started anything more than was their usual mode of living. "Those Bennetts are a_ strange lot," Fred Stone admitted to his sister Lucy one day after a practice game of ball. "One never knows what to expect of them." Page 400 THE Bennetts were newcomers "What have they done now?" Lucy queried. "T don't guess it would amount to anything much," Fred replied, "but you know the ball park is just back of their house, and this morning, somehow, the boys seemed all out of sorts. Nobody felt inclined to play. Bob went to the house and came back with a new bat. Of course, we thought that was what he went for, but in a short time here came his sisters with a big pitcher of lemonade and a plate of cakes, and then we knew that he had only brought the bat for an excuse." "IT think that was fine," Lucy answered. "Certainly, it was fine, but I never knew my sisters to fix any refreshments for my guests even when they knew that company was coming." "You never asked me to," Lucy returned crossly. "I know I never did," Fred answered, "and I never so much as thought about it." "There is something unusual about those Bennetts," Lucy said, more to herself than to her companion, "and I'm going to find out what it is that makes them so considerate of each other." "Leave it to a girl to find out things," Fred chuckled. "But how they live so well on a mere bookkeeper's salary is beyond me." The next morning, Fred was sent to the country to look up a little business affair for his father, and THE BENNETTS' BOOKKEEPING SYSTEM Lucy went over for a week-end visit with the Bennetts. The following Tuesday found them both at home again. "Did you find out what you went for?" Lucy asked, when Fred came in. "Certainly I did," the boy answered, "did you?" "Yes," Lucy responded softly. "I found out the whole Bennett family are bookkeepers." "You don't mean it!' claimed in astonishment. "Yes, I do," Lucy answered, "and they've got a wonderful system. Mary explained it all to me. To begin with, at the first of each year, the father presents each member of the family with a little blank book. He makes a request that, in these books, each one keep a record of what he or she does toward making people happy, and what they receive from other people that gives them Fred _ ex- #1 happiness. Then, there's a column for kind words, a column for angry spells, a column for selfish acts, a column for generosity, a column for real money how much, and what it goes for. At the end of the year Mr. Bennett balances the books according to his method of justice, and to the one whose book averages the greatest per cent of right living, a gold medal is presented." For a moment the sister and brother stood looking at each other in silence, then a smile spread over Fred's ruddy face. "T call that a pretty good system, Sis, for keeping tab on ourselves, don't you?" "T certainly do," Lucy answered, "and I mean to take up the Bennetts' system of bookkeeping for my own personal benefit right away." "Get two books, Sis," Fred called from the door a few moments later. "Tl start with you."! SUMMER SONG Margery S. Stewart I think my front porch has a special grace, When small girls use it for a gathering place. What matter chipped-off paint and battered stair, When they, absorbed and grave, are playing there? At school or house, or baking angel cake. I must step carefully lest I should break Pies made of mud and pebbles; I must not walk Upon the dolls they fashion from the hollyhock. There are so many porches, bright and bare, With only ghosts of small girls Playing there. Only Human Marguerite J. Griffin AMILLA stepped upon the C back porch to shake the dust from a small rug. She was hot and tired, with a weariness more than physical. "Jimmy!" she called petulantly, "Look at your clothes!" The six-year-old youngster, wiry and angular, stopped to look first at his mother and then down at the smudges across his middle. "No one would believe you were clean this morning." "Oh, Dick 'n Bill 'n me was just playing Indians. They bound me up so I got dirty." Now Camilla could see the other two grubby faces peering out from behind the lilac bush by the back fence. Their eyes were wide and solemn. Jimmy spoke quickly, "Never mind, Mama. It's Bill's turn to get caught next, and then I won't get so dirty." "Well, don't be too noisy or you'll disturb Grandma," she said, falling back on the old worry. "But Grandma's out walking in the yard." Camilla turned surprised eyes to the place where the small dirty finger pointed. Sure enough, her mother was coming toward them, light of step as in the old days. Her face seemed more relaxed and Camilla felt a burst of gladness warm her heart, and words rushed to her lips. Why, Mother, you look as you always did! You're yourself again! But she didn't say them. She dared not. Page 402 For after all, this was the first time her mother had even ventured out of her room for five months, since the day the telegram had come from the War Department: "Regret to inform you that your son, Lt. Robert Wynston, is reported missing in a flight over Germany." Mother had collapsed on that day. It hadn't mattered that she had other sons Robbie was her baby in spite of being six feet two inches tall. Her mind had seemed to snap, and she hadn't accepted the fact. Since then she had lived in the past. Jimmy spoke first, "Hello, Grandma. It's good to see you outside." The graying woman fondled the child's tousled head and the lines of her white face softened a little. "Isn't he a sight?" asked Camilla nervously. "You'd never know he was clean two hours ago." "Don't scold him, Camilla," the woman 'said wearily. "Be glad you have him to scrub and care for." So Camilla knew there was no change in her mother. Physically she walked in the garden. Mentally she was no better. All she thought and talked about was Robbie when he was a child at her knee, the things he'd said, the things he'd done. That was all she seemed to remember. Scrubbing grimy knees, washing dirty ears, combing a tousled head, always Robbie. She had reared a large family. She had lived her life bravely, but Robbie, the youngest, she had kept in her heart as her baby. ONLY HUMAN When her other boys had gone to war, she had borne it. They were men. They were self-reliant. But Robbie was only a youth for all his strapping size. She had almost wilted when he left for camp. She had visibly aged when he had been sent overseas. And when he had been reported missing, something in the stamina of her character had snapped, and she had lain crushed and hopeless for weeks on end. It was the flesh of him she longed for, just to know where he lay, living or? dead. Yes, Camilla could see that her mother was still the same, and the grim despair of it weighed down on her once more. BUT Mrs. Wynston could see things, too, for she had not lost all her power of understanding. She realized that Camilla was bearing the brunt of her weakness, and she knew she had no night to burden her in such a way. She did not want to do it and yet she couldn't seem to help herself. How could one fight when fight was gone? Someday, perhaps, she would tell Camilla, thank her for her love and patience, but not today. Today it was all she could do to walk in the garden and feel the warmth of the sun upon her stooping shoulders and wonder if it shone on Robbie somewhere ? somewhere. Tl just walk around a little," she said, trying to smile. Camilla watched her mother turn the corner of the house, thinking, Her step is strong and sure. It's her heart that weighs her down, not her body's heart, her soul's. Mrs. Wynston walked faster and 403 faster as she neared the front yard as if, strangely enough, she were anticipating something. Yet she could not have said why she felt the way she did, but urgency was there, and she went straight to the front gate. For a moment she leaned upon it with one hand, shading her eyes with the other, as if she knew she would see a tall, lithe soldier with air corps insignia coming up the street with a familiar swing swinging stride. And yet, when she did see exactly that, she wiped her eyes as if it were a mirage, as if, fearfully, it would vanish. But the figure came on and on, and her heart beat faster. If it were only Robbie! But it was almost as good as seeing Robbie himself. It was his chum, Don Murphy, who lived a block up the street and another one down. The two had been inseparable, as they grew up, had gone into the same service, had even flown in the same plane in countless raids over Germany. If Don were back? He came inside the gate and took the small gray woman in his arms, tenderly, gently, yet with almost the same affection and strength that Robbie would have done. For a moment she could pretend it was Robbie. She could say to herself, "Robbie is here." But all the while she knew it wasn't so. He held her from him at last, and he saw the question in her eyes that her lips were too tremulous to ask. Tears thickened his voice when he spoke. "I flew with him on every mission. I'd have been on that last one, only I was stricken with appendicitis the night before. But don't worry, Mrs. Wynston, Rob can take care of him- 404 self all right. Lots of flyers parachute and get out through the underground. Just lots." "Its been five months, though." "It takes time. More than you can imagine." "I suppose so. Let's sit here on this bench a minute. Can you stay a little while?" Her knees had no strength. " Sure. No one knows I'm coming home anyway. I wanted to drop in on them and find them just as I left them, with no fuss or bother." But you can't do that, she thought with fleeting panic. Your little sister has married since you were gone. She has a baby now, instead of a doll. And your mother? She was watching Don's face carefully. The face was the same, the same clean-cut lines, the same eyes, but still different somehow, older, with an age beyond the measure of years, tired, too. How would Robbie look could she see him today? Don sensed that her thoughts had turned to her own son. "I ll never forget him," he said. ""He's given me more than I can tell you, and you first gave it to him." Mrs. Wynston's face was puzzled. She didn't understand. "Remember how you used to give him cookies when we were kids? Maybe you thought you were giving just to him, but there were always me and Slim and Spike and that crippled kid just around the corner. Robbie never ate those cookies alone. He always had enough to go around for all of us, even if he had to break them in smaller pieces. We ate them and thought you were swell, then. You could cook so well, and you never said 'No' to Rob when he went in for more. Well, we thought RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE 1946 you were swell and we never told you." He paused as if the memory of those far-off years was good to cling to. She saw that there was a patch of silver hair like a streak over one ear. Don, no older than Robbie! Too young! Too young! "Well, Mrs. Wynston, there are some other fellows who think you're swell, but who may never get to see you to tell you so. The crew on Rob's plane. With them he shared things more satisfying than cookies, soul food that you had stored up in him. You know, Mrs. Wynston, a fellow does a lot of thinking when he knows his mission is to deal out - death from the air, when he wonders if he'll get back to his base again all in one piece." "\ His words were calm, quiet, and unemotional, but he saw the woman wince and he wondered if this comforted her. But he had to tell her how it was. He saw Camilla step watchfully to the front door. He saw recognition light up her face, and then she quickly retreated lest she intrude. "Well, a man's nerve is easily shaken at times like that. He finds out he's afraid, and it isn't fun to know you're a coward." No, it isn't, thought the woman bitterly. "But Rob gave us strength. He knew how to pray because you'd taught him." Like a miracle, she could almost feel the little lad at her knee lisping, "Dear Father in heaven, bless father, bless mother, bless?" She could almost feel the silk of his hair as she had when so often she had placed her hand upon his bowed head. ONLY HUMAN always near if We chose to call upon him. We didn't fee] so lost then," stowing family? So much to share with others while I've made no use of it myself. Her heart was overflowing with emotions she could not name, and then she said,  But if I could only know where he is now  A light warme3d Don s grave face. A light warmed Don's grave face. "Mrs. Wynston, Rob would say that didn't matter. He told us: 'Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? and one of them shall not fall on the ground without your Father .... ye are of more value than many sparrows.' Mrs. Wynston, our plane, the plane in which Rob flew on that last mission, we had called 'The Sparrow'. We had painted the word conspicuously on the nose. Believe me, it has not fallen to earth without the Father!" Oh, Robbie, how much you remembered! When he was small she had told him about the sparrows and he would fight any boy who threw a stone at a bird. "It's not only that your Heavenly Father sees you," he would say, "how would you like a giant or anybody to hit you with a stone?" No, Robbie was not missing. He was somewhere beneath the watchful eye of an all-wise Creator who had time to not even a sparrow fall. Wherever he might be, she, his mother, who loved him, did not know and could not reach him for she was only human, but he could never be lost outside the radius of God's blessings. There was peace in these memories. Words of counsel she had given in more courageous days had traveled far to return to her in her weakness. How could she have forgotten? But, wondering, she remembered other things. This boy had a mother, too, waiting, wondering, not knowing he sat talking only two blocks away. She must be selfish no longer. "I musn't keep you, Don. You don't know how much good you have done me. But your mother " "She doesn't know I'm coming. I wanted to walk in on her and find her doing the things she always used to do, baking, or dusting, or sitting with her mending." How can I tell him she's not doing so much of that lately, she wondered. "Things never stay the same, Don. We shouldn't expect to hold on to the past." She was talking as much to herself as to him, but her concern was for him. Would he understand. "You're tight, Mrs. Wynston, | to see the old town as I Deep down inside I knew 406 it was impossible. -You can't ever go back, really. Even the streets, the houses, aren't quite the same. They're a little older, a little more weather-beaten." "The war has changed everything, Don." "IT know it. Even little Susan Endell. I think I've loved her all my life, Mrs. Wynston, but I couldn't tell her so. Just the sight of her made me tongue-tied." He was flushed and boyish now. "She was so feminine and fragile looking. Well, this very morning as I walked past her house, there she was working in her garden. She wore a big straw hat and her face was flushed with exertion. There were freckles and a smudge of dirt across her nose, too, and because of it I forgot to be shy and before I knew it, I was kissing her and telling her all the things I've dreamed of for so long. And Mrs. Wynston, she said, 'Yes'. We're going to be married. I have a thirty-day furlough, you know. But it was the smudge on her nose that did it." "Maybe so," said the woman doubtfully. "But you've changed, too, Don. You're older and stronger and more sure of yourself." "IT don't know about that, but if I'd seen her in frills and furbelows I wouldn't have dared." "Well, I won't argue. Ill just congratulate you," and Mrs. Wynston was laughing quite zestfully. Camilla had come to the door again, her face puzzled by the sound of her mother's mirth. 'Hello, Don," she called. "Hi, Camilla. I'll see you later. I haven't been home yet, so I must get going." He swung through the old gate RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE 1946 like a school boy. The hinges squeaked gaily. "Hey, don't do that!" shouted little Jimmy, coming up jealously. "My Mom won't let me do it." She won't? Thought Mrs. Wynston. Well, of course, hinges are harder to replace in wartime, but? She had a job to do. She must call up the Murphy's house and tell Don's sister her brother was on his way home, so she could prepare his mother for the surprise. They had never told him his mother had had a heart attack. They hadn't wanted to worry him while he was away. Besides, she was much better now, but a sudden shock, even though a pleasant one, should be avoided. * ek Kk & Camilla sat down weakly in the porch swing. The sight of her mother dashing up the steps and into the house was too much for her, but the firm, commanding voice giving its message over the phone was like music to her ears. When Mrs. Wynston had finished, she came out upon the front porch, and it was as if she had just returned from a long journey. Camilla looked up at her mother anxiously, but in the older woman's face she saw only vigor and courage and, more precious than all, deep love burning there for her daughter. Camilla's eyes filled with hot tears and she looked quickly away. But Mrs. Wynston understood. It's no more than I've done, she thought. I let her bear the brunt of my emotions. She uses a little rebuke to cover up hers. I must talk to her sometime, not now. But sometime, to let her know I understand all she has done. THE SETTLEMENT OF SANPETE VALLEY 407 The Settlement of Sanpete Valley (Continued from page 377) Sanpitch River. Two years later about fifteen Welsh families settled on the beautiful spot, and named the colony Wales in honor of their native country. Settlements began to dot the Valley from north to south, homes were built, the problems of supplying the necessities of life became less hazardous, and the settlers found time to turn their attention to new projects and cultural pursuits which augured well for the future of Sanpete Valley. (To be continued ) THE ORIGIN OF SONG Katherine Fernelius Larsen Man listened, rapt, when storm winds thundered high And made the forest one vast symphony; He caught new cadences, when on his ears First fell the heavy pulsing of the sea. All these and slow year A depth and breadth, A resignation to embattled A hope of peace for h Out of his joy, his toil, s added to his cry of pain and sorrow born; ed life, earts by anguish torn. His need for God, His grief and pain, through man's allotted days, Music, the comforter of man, was born? Music, the perfect medium of praise! GARDEN AND CONSERVE: Add your bit to the world food supply. Grow as much food as you can. Do not waste any food. The Price T.A. Hunt OCR Transcription
IN the State of Utah there is a long, narrow valley that winds tortuously for nearly two hundred miles between mountain ranges. In 1865, there were no fertile farms, no luxuriant vegetation, nothing green except a thin ribbon of cottonwoods and willows along the winding course of the river. Beyond this, on either side, a wide strip of gray-green indicated the greasewood area, which ended at the foot of the silver-blue, sage-covered benches. Perhaps at that time the valley possessed a measure of beauty, but such as it was, it was cold, fierce, and inhospitable, even forbidding. Like the Utes who roamed over its bottom lands and benches and camped by the river and the mountain streams, it had rugged elements of beauty, but, at heart, it was quite cruel.
Late in August of that year, as the sun sank behind the Pavant Range and the shadows lengthened and chased the sunlight out of the valley onto the bench and up the mountainside, there to linger and play in golden glory for a few splendid moments, herders were driving home a motley drove of cattle, the chief wealth of the pioneer settlement. These were to be kept for the night in the corral. Three sides of this enclosure were made of cedar posts, deeply and securely embedded in the earth; the fourth side was formed by the high rock wall of the fort. To the north, and adjoining the corral, lay the small field which had been cleared and broken. It was laid off
in squares, as it is today, but the whole field was golden with ripened shocks of cut and bound grain.
Many things had happened since the time, three years before, when the first camp had been made. The first year's scanty crops had been planted too late to mature. The second year, the crops had been subjected to two scourges, grasshoppers and drought. Long before planting time of the third season, the Ute Indians, incited by Chief Walker and Chief White Horse, had gone on the war path. No conciliatory efforts of the settlers had induced the savages to consider peace. Therefore, much of the time and energy of the men and boys had been required to haul the rock from the bench and build the four thick, high, walls of the fort. That task was now over. It was a homely, but formidable structure of gray cobblestones. Lean-to shanties built against the inner walls afforded a crowded shelter and a minimum of comfort to the inhabitants. Equidistant from the corners, at each end, was a sixteen-foot gate built of hewn cedars pinned together with strong maple pegs.
As yet, the Indians had made no direct attack on the fort. The chief evidences of warfare were the frequent raids on the cattle herders when they ventured too far from the fort, or the theft of such cattle as wandered into the canyons in search of cooling shade or greener feed.
After the sun had set, two men, one from each gate, armed with muskets, came forth to do guard
THE PRICE duty. They walked south and around the corner until they met on the south side of the fort, then turned and walked back, meeting again on the north side of the cattle corral. Thus the time was to be spent until they were relieved. The grain had prematurely ripened of the excessive heat and drought and the harvesting of it was late since it had taken so much time and work to complete the fort. For that reason, the men who ha worked through the long, burning day cradling and binding grain, were red and worn out. Yom ALTON and Andrew Rasmussen were who emerged for duty that night. Each had cradled five acres of grain that day. As Tom approached corral gate, the animals were being not there. "Where are m' cattle, Bill?" he the herders. "When we drove the herd out of the cottonwoods, your oxen were not there, an' your boy, Tommie, went long." As the darkness fell and still no sign of the boy appeared, Tom walked his beat with an increasing anxiety. Returning from the cattle corral on one of his rounds, he saw 4 shaft of light 409 gleaming through the partly opened fort gate. A woman, middle-aged, handsome, and slender, stood in the illuminated space. Her mass of jet black hair was combed back, braided, and wound into a large bob at the base of her head. Her features were finely and delicately formed. The large, expressive black eyes bespake both spirit and tenderness. Peculiarly curved little wrinkles at the comers of her mouth showed that her face was pleasant, and that "she Her chin and mouth have one the impression of strength Everyone in the fort knew that it was not an easy Hannah Alton's mind when she had made it up. In and obstinate. T that she was the kindest and gentlest woman in the world, and the best and most cheerful of wives. He knew what had brought her there. He hoped to hide his anxiety concerning the boy from her, but felt sure he could not do it. He therefore hesitated a moment in Ot der to organize a plan. "Halt! Who goes there?" "Tt is I, thy wife, Hannah," replied. "And I am sorely smitten wi anxiety because OUT Tommie is out lookin' for the cattle and hasna' returned." "Thou mustna worry," comforted Tom. "I havena' doubt that our Tommie will be able to ta' care 0 on 9? Himself and come in after a bit. "Tom, thou wanna tell me that thou are not worried over the lad Thou must leave off standing guard and go and seek him." "That I canna' do without the 410 permission of the captain," replied Tom soberly. "The captain willna' give you leave," said Hannah. "J have already sought him and he says that all the men are tired and that thou must ta' thy regular turn at guard. The captain don'na' like me." She looked toward the blackness, closing them in, the dark that held her boy. "Tom, thou must go. I will ta' thy place and attend guard instead o' thee." "Hannah," answered Tom, "I fain would go and seek the lad, but thou knowest I canna' substitute anyone in my place. I'm disobeying orders even to let thee stand and delay me. Go to the captain and send 'im hither that I may seek my release." "Nay, Tom," she replied. "If thou willna' or canna' go and seek thy son who is out yonder, I shall take thy place there. There's na' rule or order as can stop me from that." She turned and ran into the darkness. Tom ran after her and called, but she was gone. At the corner ot the fort he met Andrew Rasmussen, who was waiting there for him. "Vat und who was dat?" he said excitedly. "Und vy don't you stop im?" "That was my wife," said Tom. "And naught but a bullet could stop 'er. Our Tommie is out there huntin' cattle, and she ha' gone to seek im Tom walked rapidly back to the gate and called loudly to the captain. When he came, he seemed not at all pleased. "What do you want now?" he asked rather irritably. "Mi lad is out yonder at the cottonwoods hunting mi cattle," said Tom meekly, "an' mi wife is greatly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE 1946 worried and excited about it. I wish to be excused from guard duty while I go an' seek 'im." "The boy is all night. He's able to take care of himself! He's nearly aman. Thirteen, isn't he?" "Yes, the lad is past thirteen," replied Tom. "But mi wife ha' gone in search o' him. She willna' retum until she finds the lad and he willna' come back without the cattle. 1 canna' stay here safe while mi own are out there in the dark. For God's sake release me, captain. I must go to 'em." "You have worked yourself into a stew about nothing. It has been weeks since we saw an Indian. The darkness won't hurt them." The captain started to go, then, as one suddenly remembering something, he turned back. "Tom! You have disobeyed orders by permitting your wife to pass. You should never have let her do so. Your wife is too headstrong. Since she has gone, let her stay. 'The experience will not do her any-harm. Continue your guard duty." TOM resumed the patrol of the beat. His heart was heavy and he was greatly worried. He did not speak to the other guard as they met. As he walked, he stared into the darkness. Once he fancied he saw them coming, heard the footfalls of the oxen, but he knew the things he saw and heard were only creatures of his imagination. The temptation to desert his post and go in search of his dear ones was almost irresistible, but he remained. He walked, and listened and stared, he pictured horrible things, until finally he was quite mad. His consciousness seemed to be aware of but one thing. He must THE PRICE walk, walk, walk, back and forth, back and forth. He must walk until he could see the outline of Andrew Rasmussen's broad shoulders and then turn, walk back, meet Rasmussen, tur back. He was almost crushed with the pettiness of it in the face of the greater danger. How slowly the time dragged on. Would this eternal walking never cease? Where were his wife and son? Walk! Walk! Walk! Around the corner. He could see the outline of Rasmussen a rod or so out from the cattle fence. Rasmussen turned and started back. Tom, too, began to retrace his steps. He passed the corner, and made his steady march by the wall of the fort. A hoot owl near the cattle corral called. Another out towards the mountain answered. Suddenly, Tom recalled that he had passed a shadowy something lying against the fence. Becoming instantly alert, he whirled about and walked cautiously back. Yes, there it was! A dark shadow lying against the fence. It might be an animal that had been left out of the corral. Perhaps it was one of his own oxen that had returned. Perhaps Tommie had driven them in after all. He began to walk rapidly toward the dark spot. There was a movement. The shadow began to divide, to take several forms, to become human beings. Was it? Could it be Indians? Yes, he was sure of it now. The forms made a dash for the darkness. Tom's musket came to his shoulder. He fired! Following the report there was a moan, a thudding sound as if something heavy had fallen upon the soft earth. Then for an instant all was quiet. Soon, however, there came to Tom's ears low moans from 411 out in the darkness, which were soon drowned by the commotion from the fort. The report of the shot had aroused the people inside. Having fired, Tom mechanically but rapidly began to reload his musket. He had hardly finished when several men appeared near the corral gate. "Halt!" called Tom. "Who are you?" "What's happened?" asked one of the group. "T think I ha' shot an Indian." Investigation proved that he had, indeed, wounded an Indian, and that several Indians had begun to dig out a section of the corral fence with a view to stampeding the cattle. It was near midnight and Tom sought the captain and obtained his release from further guard duty. The commander did not think it wise to search for Hannah and Tommie until it came daybreak, but Tom did. He entered the low room occupied by himself and family and bade his sleeping children a silent farewell. (The shepherd must seek the lost one, even though the risk to the flock be great.) Stumbling along through the greasewoods, anxious to reach the cottonwoods and their protection, Tom prayed. Now that he could do something, make an effort to aid his wife and son, his calmness and good sense returned. The Indians might be close still. He stopped and listened, and then crept cautiously on. After ages of time had elapsed, as it seemed to him, he finally dared to call into the darkness. But no answer came to him save the noises of the night. As the first streaks of gray appeared in the east, Tom, weary and heartsick, pushed up 412 through the cottonwood thicket. Suddenly, on the still morning air, in came to him. "Tommie, is it thou?" "No, Hannah," he replied. "It isna' the lad, but 'tis I, thy husband, How art thou?" He moved closer to the place where her voice had seemed to come from. "Hast thee seen aught of the Jad?" "I am safe," assuringly, "But I havena' seen Tommie. "God h night. I'm fearful for the safety of our Tommie lad," It was glowing lighter, They wandered on to the edge of the cottonskirted along the southern edge of the cottonwoods, going east toward Tom's attention was or more cattle accompanied by unshod ponies. The trail led from the southwest toward the canyon and, without stopping to reason why, they both instinctively turned and followed the trail. A full mile they something Hannah looked, her face blanched, but she said, "Come. Let us see," Running, stumbling, falling, through brush ? down gullies, up steep RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE 1946 banks, they hurried until they arrived beneath the circling buzzards, "There he is!" cried Hannah, His strong young aIrows, and the life gone from his body. A stone clasped in his brave tight hand and numerous moccasin prints in the soft earth told only too well what had happened. Crushed and dumb with gtief and sorrow, the parents knelt by the side of the dead boy in silence. "Hannah," bitterly ~ exclaimed Tom. "I canna' bear it! 'Tis too much that we have ' give to this terrible land. It is nq' place for women and children. "Tis too cruel, too wild. I shall leave it. Yes. I shall leave it and take thee and our other children away from its consuming terribleness," not become embittered. The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh. Death comes in all lands, to young as well as old. Strong men and women are needed to subdue the wilderness and accomplish the Lord's work here. It had as well be thee and me as some other man and wife. And when 'tis done, 'twill be a good home for thee and me, and a fine inheritance for our children," "Oh, Hannah!" And there were tears in his eyes as he reverently placed his arm about her, "Thou art an angel! Thy courage and fortitude hath shamed away my weakness," Faith Is a Heritage Christie Lund Coles CHAPTER 3 Synopsis: Enid and Tom Drage, a young married couple, are very happy in their humble furnished apartment in a small town until Tom is brought home dead from a factory accident. Enid is frightened by the future she must make for her small daughter, but she feels Tom's influence still with her. NID lay in the tall grass in the back yard. The leaves of the lilac bush above her moved ever so slightly in the hot July breeze. Sharon was playing near by, putting sand into a little bucket, then emptying it again on the sand pile. The child's face was tranquil, full of peace and instinctive contentment. Enid thought of the words, "Except ye be converted and become as little children, ye cannot enter into the kingdom of heaven." She wondered vaguely if that was what it meant that we must accept life simply, accept each day as a good gift, without doubt or sorrow or apprehension. But acceptance was hard when one could see such a little way ahead in the great scheme of things. Already her problems were beginning to loom large and frightening. The grocer who had been so kind when Tom was alive was becoming cool, more hesitant about filling her orders. Her rent would soon be due and the money for it was not there. She knew the moment was near when she must go and talk to Miss Nobbitt. That was difficult, for, though the woman had been kind enough in her way, Enid felt somewhat afraid of her, of her set mouth and her sternness. But money was not her only problem. She was lonely. The hopes she had had of a happy social life were gone. Everyone was very kind when she went to her meetings, but it ended there. The other women went home to busy households, to husbands coming home, to parties, perhaps, where there would be so many couples. There was no place for an extra woman, especially one with a small child. She closed her eyes for a moment, then forced herself to smile a little wryly. She wasn't going to feel sorry for herself. Not any more. It was a beautiful day; the sun was warm upon her face, upon her bare arms. It seemed to hold healing in its warmth, and peace, and a calm reassurance. She looked up at the wide blue sky, endless, incomprehensible. Her world seemed to grow small, her troubles seemed to become insignificant before its vastness. What was one life, one problem, in the face of the great, wonderful universe. Every bird singing above her head was cared for, every wind was guided in its direction; surely the God who kept all things in order, who made all things, would be mindful of her, also. Her muscles relaxed and stretched. Her child laughed in complete happiness. Enid sat up, feeling suddenly that this moment when she had Page 413 414 found new courage, new hope, temporary though it might be, was the time to go and talk to Miss Nobbitt. She stood up, ran her hand over her skirt, straightening it. Then she reached a hand to Sharon, saying, "Come here, darling. We must go into the house." The child shook her head, looking crestfallen. "We will come back," her mother assured her, wiping the sand from her small chubby fingers and putting an unruly curl in place. Miss Nobbitt liked the child. It was wise, as well as necessary, to take her with her when she made the call. As she waited on the porch for her landlady to answer the door, she could see through the screen the part of the house which the woman occupied. It was beautifully, almost lavishly, furnished with substantial, rather old furniture. It looked cool and comfortable after the warm sun. Evidently her family had been well off, enough so, at least, that she had a home for the rest of her life and an apartment to rent. A home of one's own, a place where no one could say, "Now you must move," seemed a wonderful possession to Enid. Something sure, something good, more than a_ shelter, more than most people seemed to realize. She would have felt so much better if Tom and she had owned a home, if it had been their own, if they had put hours into it, painting, planting, furnishing. It would have been an extra bond between them. It would have been an extra safeguard for their child, for she had noticed that the children whose parents owned their homes, who were settled and part of a street or a community, were less likely to go astray, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE 1946 to look far afield for pleasure and happiness. Miss Nobbitt was coming toward her, dressed in her perpetual afternoon black. "Oh," she greeted Enid, almost in surprise, "come in." Enid smiled up at her in friendliness and a little shyness, "I hope I'm not disturbing you." "Of course not. Come into the sitting room. It is cooler there." They passed into the large parlor, across a hall with heavy oak paneling into another comfortable room with chintz-covered chairs, with hand-carved tables, with a shiny, new Victrola in one comer. Enid couldn't resist saying, "How nice. How very nice." ACAIN there was a look of surprise in Miss Nobbitt's eyes as she looked about the room. "It's comfortable," was all she said, sitting down rather stiffly, motioning her guest to do likewise. Enid lifted Sharon to her knee as she gave herself a moment more of time before she approached the subject about which she must speak. Miss Nobbitt waited in silence. Ominous silence, Enid felt, as she cried within herself, "Oh, why don't you say something, make it a little easier. Aren't you human?" Yet, her voice was controlled and soft as she finally spoke. She said, "IT thought I would speak to you about the rent. I know you could rent your rooms to someone who would be more' dependable than we are. I haven't much money left, but I am going to try to find something to do... I'll make it all up _. If you'll let us stay..." She hadn't meant to have her FAITH IS A HERITAGE voice break, to have tears come to her eyes. But it was too late now, it didn't matter. She wiped her eyes, murmuring, "I'm sorry," as she started to rise, afraid to wait for an answer, wondering what had made her believe this austere woman could be touched, could be human. But Miss Nobbitt was telling her to sit down and she was obeying. She looked at her questioningly and was amazed to see tears in the older woman's eyes. "Listen to me, my child," she was saying, "I know you think me unkind and heartless. I'm not. When you first came here with your handsome husband, I used to watch you laughing together. I would see him kiss your hair and I felt I couldn't bear it. I thought I disliked you. When your child was born my dislike seemed to grow. I know now it was jealousy. You had the things I have been denied. Even when your husband died I was still jealous because you had this beautiful little girl. Somehow, today, as you talked I felt almost as if you were my own daughter... You could be, you know. I'm so ashamed." She pressed her hand hard against her eyes and her body shook with harsh sobs. She wept as one who has long forgotten the relief of tears. Enid came over to her, admonishing, "You mustn't cry, it's all right." For the first time, Enid saw Miss Nobbitt smile, a tremulous, gentle smile as she dried her eyes and reached out her arms to Sharon who was standing beside her, looking incredulously sad. "Come here," she whispered, "come here and let me hold you." The next moment she was pressing 415 the child to her in great love and gentleness. "You see," she was saying, "I know what it means to be in love. I loved someone once... Very, very much. My family objected and I sent him away. Of course, I kept hoping he would come back. But I learned later that he married a girl in California. Some said it was done for spite, I don't know. Right now... And for the first time... I hope not. There's so little happiness, I hope he found it with her. I hope she was happy, too." She added simply, "He's dead now." Enid looked at her with great compassion. She tried to imagine her as she must have looked twenty-five years ago, tall and slender and pretty... In love and happy. It seemed to her now that everyone had a cross to bear sooner or later. It helped a little to think that. Miss Nobbit told her, " I want you to stay on here as long as you want. Make it your home, forget about the rent." "I couldn't do that," protested the girl, her blue eyes wide, "I'll pay you when I get to working." "What do you intend to do?" "IT suppose I'll have to just do anything. I was studying to be a teacher. I wish I had finished... Though I wouldn't have missed these beautiful years... With Tom." "Perhaps, if you work, you can save enough to go back to school. You'll have quite awhile to support Sharon if you don't marry again." Enid looked at her as if the thought were incongruous, "Oh, I'll never do that," she assured her. "You're young. You're very pretty. Don't let bitterness spoil your 416 life, as I did. But, to get back to the work, there are several women in town who need help in their homes. I'm sure you could keep quite busy." Enid recoiled from the thought of going into other women's homes as a servant, doing menial work. Miss Nobbitt seemed to know her thoughts for she told her, "Don't be too proud. Any work that is honest is honorable. As long as you have the strength to work... And a clear conscience, you have practically everything." "Thank you," Enid said. "You've been more than kind. You don't know how it helps." "Yes, I do. I should have done all of this much, much sooner. I was too selfish. Now, the two of you' RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1946 come over here a little later for supper. I have a new phonograph and some records. We'll have a pleasant time." They did have a pleasant time. Enid was more happy and more ready for sleep than she had been for many days. Just as she had tucked the child in for the night and dimmed the light, there was a knock on the door. She opened it, looking out into the lavender evening, gathering upon the world. She saw a tall man in a dark suit standing in the doorway. For a moment, she was sure he had the wrong door. But he reassured her, asking her name and adding, "I'd like to talk to you about your husband's death." (To be continued ) CLASS REUNION Olive M. Nicholes Time's measured tread along the campus ways Brings memories back ? one old friend with me still ? As burgeoning of spring, and summer days Point to the crimson sumac on the hill, Bleak winter's sculptures, and the barricade Of crystal bridges on the silent stream. The locust shrills a haunting serenade Where lovers' Jane is but a happy dream, And phantom classmates climb the hill with me, For you, alone, remained to give it grace. Time blots the years with rigid certainty, But grants me largess in your smiling face. Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for 'Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. GENERAL ACTIVITIES AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH), SMITHFIELD FIRST WARD VETERAN RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS Front row, left to right: Betty Olson; Sarah Pitcher; Rhoda Coleman; Jane Miles (age 92); Mary Coleman (deceased); Cecilia G. Nelson (Age 87). Back row, left to night: Lucile N. Erickson, President Smithfield First Ward Relief Society; Lettie Dowdle; Jane N. Tidwell, former counselor; Elizabeth Cannell, former president; Marty Griffith; Eleanor Miles; Matilda Coleman; Mary A. Deppe; Bishop Merlin T. Van Orden, Smithfield First Ward. This photograph was taken in October 1944. All of these sisters, except one, are still living and enjoying fairly good health. They have all served in the Relief Society for many years and all are still active. At the time the photograph was taken the thirteen elderly women averaged more than seventy-seven years of age. The average of the twelve now living is more than seventy-nine years. Photograph submitted by Lucile N. Erickson Page 417 418 Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) Lovell Ward ROM Big Horn Stake, under the presidency of Grace E. Allphin, the report of an outstanding evening of music has been received. The Singing Mothers of Lovell Ward presented a number of very beautiful renditions, including "'Holiness Becometh the House of the Lord," "Holy Redeemer," "Lift Thine Eyes to the Mountain," and "Let All My Life Be Music." The director was Carma B. Johnson, with Ada B. Baxter and Veoma Stahle as accompanists. The organ prelude was played by Sister Daisy A. Tew. So excellent was the rendition, and so satisfying the spiritual RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1946 influence of this program, that Bishop Frank H. Brown of the Lovell Ward wrote the General Board of Relief Society the following comment on the performance: I am herewith enclosing a printed program for an evening of music presented by the Singing Mothers of the Lovell Ward Relief Society. It was one of the finest and most inspiring evenings I have spent for many years. The spirit of the occasion was outstanding, and the ability of the sisters in their presentation of the songs was of the highest type. The public was invited to enjoy this hour of music with the saints, and their pleasure and admiration were very great. You sisters of the Relief Society are to be congratulated on having in your organization a group known as the Singing Mothers. Many people have been brought closer to their Maker because of the very sweet services rendered by these sisters. SOUTH LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA), HUNTINGTON PARK WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND VISITING TEACHERS This photograph, submitted by Sister Viola Thorn, was taken in May 1945, to honor the eightieth birthday of Sister Katherine Kimball (lower right), a faithful Relief Society worker who has served for many years in various capacities. For the last ten years she has been a visiting teacher in the Huntington Park Ward, where she achieved a 100 per cent record. Sister Dora Wagstaff, Huntington Park Ward Relief Society president, stands in the center (top row) of the photograph. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 419 MOUNT GRAHAM STAKE, DUNCAN WARD (ARIZONA), HANDWORK DISPLAY From Mount Graham Stake, under the presidency of Erma M. Stewart, two photographs of an unusually beautiful handwork display have been received from Beatrice Merrell, Second Counselor in the Duncan Ward Relief Society. This display, in addition to the handwork, featured many treasured relics of pioneer days. 420 Pasadena Stake (California) EI Sereno Ward ROM Pasadena Stake, under the presidency of Madge P. Fowler, an unusually effective program is reported by Louise Willard, President of El Sereno Ward Relief Society: "A 'Temple of Life' was constructed, and a program portrayed a radio broadcast by the Relief Society women. This was the introductory program of the year and presented a real challenge to our members. E] Sereno is anticipating the building of a new chapel and the theme of the broadcast was designed for this purpose. Invitations in the form of a miniature chapel were mailed to each woman in the ward. 2 I N c kd RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JUNE 1946 "When the sisters assembled to hear the broadcast, introductions were made by our first counselor, and Sister Marzelle Mangum sang "IT Love a Little Cottage." Then the announcer, Faun Demke, asked what each sister had to contribute toward the building of the chapel. Our president, Louise Willard, made a comparison of the erecting of temporal buildings to the building of character. She placed, as the foundation of the chapel, Faith, Truth, Humility, Love. "The social science teacher, Blanche Calvert, placed the stately pillars, Tolerance, Sincerity, Trustworthiness, Morality. The walls, representing literature, were placed by Selma Child, who named PASADENA STAKE, (CALIFORNIA), EL SERENO WARD "Temple of Life" Constructed for a Program in the Form of a Radio Broadcast NOTES FROM THE FIELD 421 EMIGRATION STAKE, (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), THIRTEENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY Photograph taken on the 103d anniversary celebration and relic show day. Note the young mothers and the many ladies in pioneer costume. Them Knowledge, Confidence, Culture. The Magazine chairman, Dorothy McCallister, opened wide the doors of Industry, Effort, Interest. Our visiting teachers' leader, Agnes Gallagher, gave us light through the windows of Understanding, Sympathy, Hope, Kindness. "Chanity and Service, presented by our work director, Clara Weinberg, constituted the crowning glory of the chapel, the dome. Marzelle Mangum, in music, gave Self-Expression, Gratitude, Joy, Balance; and the secretary, Connie Cleere, placed in the cornerstone, Remembrance. God-given Beauty was last added to this temple by Second Counselor Mary Snyder, when she placed Cheerfulness, Friendliness, Health, Understanding. "Marzelle Mangum sang "Bless This House," and Edna Kidwell gave the benediction. After the program each sister was given a pencil and paper and asked to either draw a plan or to write down the ideas she might have toward the construction and decoration of a perfect Relief Society room." Emigration Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) Thirteenth Ward ILLIE C. ADAMS, President of Emigration Stake Relief Society, submits an account of the accomplishments of the Society in the Thirteenth Ward as reported by First Counselor Thelma Vetterli: "We have just completed an outstanding year of work filled with spiritual development and growth. Our greatest accomplishment was to acquaint the younger sisters of the ward with Relief Society work and interest them to the extent that they are now actively engaged with us as a vital part of the organization. 422 We engaged the services of a competent person to conduct a nurse and play hour for the young children during meeting. "We then gave these younger sisters a job to do and we made them feel needed. On work meeting day, this year, we inaugurated a monthly program luncheon to follow the usual work. The younger sisters have had complete charge of the luncheon and a master of ceremonies from this group arranged the programs and conducted them. To mark the difference from the old work and business day, we call it work and fun day. "We have used the general theme of "Friendship" and we note the birthdays of the sisters each month, making a little ceremony of presenting each Birthday Lady with a corsage. 'This simple act has brought untold joy to many. The speakers for the day are selected with the purpose of offering a wide variety of subjects, including some excellent demonstrations. During the season we presented a well-known local authority on ceramic art who brought with her a beautiful collection of antique and modern figurines. On another occasion, a demonstration of flower arrangements was given with suggestions on interior _and exterior decoration for the holidays. Another time a woman told of her life as a missionary in Tahiti. On this occasion, our members brought their personal treasures of all kinds, handwork and odd and interesting items. When we celebrated the 103d anniversary of the founding of the Relief Society, many ladies wore pioneer costumes and the feature of that day was a relic RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE 1946 show. Many of these items had been carried across the plains by the pioneers. Included were furniture, pictures, china, books, and old letters bearing famous signatures. "Our class attendance on work and business day previously averaged twenty-two. It is now fifty-one." Maricopa Stake (Arizona) ROM Maricopa Stake, under the presidency of Vida D. Brinton, a report of an anniversary program presented in connection with the welfare assignment has been received through the stake secretary, Irene A. Duke: "At ten o'clock a. M. March 13, 1945, the Relief Society sisters arrived to decorate and arrange the ward displays around the sides of the spacious Mezona Hall. The center of attraction at the front of the hall was a beautiful Relief Society birthday cake and lighted tapers at each and of a lovely lace covered table. A profusion of spring flowers decorated the Hall and the tables in the banquet room where each ward served a delicious luncheon for all of its members at noon. During the luncheon hour, former Relief Society stake presidents were honored and presented with corsages. All other former and present groups of stake and ward officers were honored and asked to stand. Mothers with three and four daughters present were also paid tribute. "After luncheon, a unique program was presented in the form of a skit written by our stake Relief Society president, Sister Vida Driggs Brinton. Modern and old-fashioned costumes were displayed. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Two little girls from Tempe Ward, Anita and Carolyn Cox, dressed in modern and pioneer dresses, respectively, stood as announcers at the microphone while a delightful program of modern and old-fashioned music, songs, dances, and readings was presented by the different wards. Many of the Relief Society women were attired in pioneer costumes which created an atmosphere of yesteryears, bringing back loving memories and the spirit of our pioneer ancestors." 423 Maricopa Stake (Arizona) Tempe Ward Irene A. Duke, Maricopa Stake Secretary, reports the following item from Tempe Ward: "Early in the summer, President Lola O. Turley called her counselors together to make plans for a fall bazaar. Realizing the scarcity of cotton material and all types of children's clothes, Sister Turley suggested making all the items for the bazaar from salvage material. "From feed sacks, beautiful dish PAROWAN STAKE (UTAH), QUILT DISPLAY Pioneer quilt and modern quilt. The quilt at the right is fifty years old, is woolfilled and made of green calico and bleached muslin. The quilting is exquisitely done. The quilt on the left is made of white muslin and pastel colors, a very lovely piece of handwork. Photograph submitted by Barbara M. Adams, President Parowan Stake Relief Society. 424 towels, luncheon sets, scarves, and aprons were made. From old socks and knitted materials, rugs were hooked; quilts were pieced from scraps of material. Garments for small children were made from larger garments and from left-over pieces of material. From clothing generally considered worthless the sisters made most of the articles for the bazaar." Texas-Louisiana Mission Corpus Christi Branch ROM the Texas-Louisiana Mission, where Sister Christie J Smith is president of the Relief Society, a detailed report of activities in the Corpus Christi Branch has been received through the president, Phyllis W. Harmon: "The Corpus Christi Relief Society RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE 1946 is composed largely of young navy wives, many of whom are attending Relief Society for the first time. Their enthusiasm and co-operation have made a most successful season. This Relief Society is fully organized, the outline lessons are studied, and the special Sunday programs presented. In addition, the group has undertaken, as a special project, the serving of a monthly dinner for the servicemen. These dinners have been very successful and the proceeds have been donated to the branch building fund. "Our popular activity is sewing. Most of the sewing has been done for the March 17th bazaar. Work for the bazaar was begun in October and every member of the group helped with at least one article. Instructions in machine sewing, embroidery TEXAS-LOUISIANA (FORMERLY TEXAS) MISSION, CORPUS CHRISTI BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, left to right: Mary Warner; Martha Warner, former Texas Mission Relief Society President; Farlina Atkinson, First Counselor Corpus Christi Branch; Phyllis H. Harmon, President; Emereth Mongomery, Secretary; Virginia Douglas; Amazon Ballard; Oliva Monney. Second row, left to right: Betty Glauser; Marjorie Smith; Clara Waterfall; Kathryn Moulton; Louise Mongomery. Third row, left to right: Kay Degner; Wanda Smith; Helen Poll; Virginia Ehlert; Anne Robinson; Irene Buhltmeyer; Louise Linton; Sybil Westlund. NOTES FROM THE FIELD broidering and crocheting were given, and many members learned to do a certain type of sewing for the first time. Items made for the ba- - zaar included luncheon sets, pillowcases, dish towels, aprons, girls' pinafores and sunsuits, boys' overalls, and a complete infant's layette, consisting of embroidered sacques, crib sheets and pillowcases, hand-knit sweaters, bootees, soakers, and shawl. In all, 158 articles were completed and over $200 was made on the bazaar." Park Stake (Salt Lake City, Utah) LeGrand Ward HILDUR E. JOHNSON, President, Park Stake Relief Society, submits an account of unique summer activities carried out in the Le- 425 Grand Ward under the direction of former President Ruby Karpowitz. "For the month of June a 'White Elephant,' sale was held. The members co-operated by donating usable but unwanted items that had accumulated. During housecleaning time. One sister purchased a much needed tea kettle for twenty-five cents, and there was a scramble for the flour sifter and the collection of vases. "In July an all-children program was enjoyed. Children from four to fifteen years old gave a program of singing, instrumental _ selections, readings, and tap dancing. "The month of August brought forth a display of hobbies, fancywork, relics, antiques, and large numbers of souvenirs sent home by servicemen. One aged brother displayed his beautiful collection of water-color paintings. WELLS STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS These Relief Society women sang at the pioneer celebration at Liberty Park, July 24, 1945. The chorus was chosen from members of the wards in Wells Stake under the direction of Josephine Brower, stake chorister, who has served in this capacity for ten years. Lorena W. Anderson former president of Wells Stake Relief Society (now president of Temple View Stake Relief Society), in submitting the photograph, commented: "We feel a deep sense of gratitude to the Relief Society General Board for organizing the Singing Mothers, giving an opportunity for our women to sing." PARK STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) LE GRAND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HOLIDAY PARTY AND APRON SALE In December 1945, the Le Grand Ward Relief Society officers, under the direction of President Ruby Karpowitz, entertained for the members at a holiday luncheon. Eighty women were present. One hundred and twenty-five aprons, made by the members, were displayed and sold. A special feature of the occasion was an exhibit of Christmas table decorations. > Since this photograph was taken the Le Grand Ward has been divided and the new Relief Society president is Sister Lavinia Shurtliff. "And, as a crowning success, in September, a flower show was conducted. The display was very extensive and beautiful, and, according to a ward member who belongs to the Utah Rose Society, our display compared favorably with any flower show held in the State." Northwestern States Mission Astoria Branch (Oregon) the Northwestern States Mission, under the presidency of Lenora K. Bringhurst, the report of an anniversary program is given by Sister Lois Allred, Secretary-Treasurer of the Astoria Branch: "The 103d anniversary social was held under the direction of President Meta Stevens with Lois Allred acting as chairman. Prayer was offered by Jean Poulsen and the congregation sang "Sweet Is the Work." The Presiding Elder, Arthur Stevens, presented an address of congratulations to the Society. This was followed by a dialogue by Thelma Rapp and Lois Leatham. As a special event of the evening, President Meta Stevens played a recording of the addresses of Sister Lyman and President Grant which were given before the Astoria Branch on 426 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE 1946 NOTES FROM THE FIELD the 100th anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society. The congregation then sang, 'America,' and Virginia Germaine gave the benediction. "Then, by way of recreation, Thomas M. Smart directed a series of interesting games in which prizes were given to the winners. Elizabeth Noel and Thelma Rapp had prepared two beautiful birthday cakes decorated with the Relief Society colors. These cakes were served with ice cream." East Mill Creek Stake (Utah) Evergreen Ward ROM East Mill Creek Stake, where Sarah E. Bateman is the 427 new Relief Society president, an interesting note on the recently organized Evergreen Ward has been received through the ward president, Gladys M. Rudd: "Our new stake is small in numbers but strong in faith, with powerful men to guide it. With only 130 families in our ward, our attendance is small, but we feel that the spirit of the Heavenly Father is with us. He has said that where only a few have met in my name there I will be also. "We plan to build a new stake house and chapel with our beautiful mountains as the background, a building where we can come to worship and enjoy ourselves. We hope that when it is completed we will NORTHERN STATES MISSION, PERU (INDIANA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Photograph taken on Mother's Day, May 13, 1945 428 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JUNE 1946 EAST MILL CREEK STAKE (UTAH) EVERGREEN WARD RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, left to right: Second Counselor Grace Keller; President Gladys M. Rudd; First Counselor Ronnie Merrill; Secretary-Treasurer Eldruna Coon. In the picture, also, are class leaders Flora Heugly, Adelila Bagley, Maud Taylor, Ann Perkins, and other Relief Society members. Have one of the finest Relief Societies, and one of the most complete Relief Society rooms in the Church. That is our aim!" Northern States Mission Cleveland (Ohio) Branch GISTER Mary H. Stoddard, former president, Northern States Mission Relief Society, submitted a report of activities in the Cleveland Branch, written by the president, Emma Glauser: "During the months beginning with October and including May, we have our regular Relief Society meetings. Our class leaders are faithful and capable Latter-day Saint women, Our visiting teachers make their regular visits and we try to accomplish this activity 100 per cent, but, due to the long distances the teachers must travel, this is not always possible. The Relief Society women have made many visits to the sick. They have stayed in the homes and in the hospitals when it has been necessary to do so. "A special activity for the past year and a half has been to give each expectant mother in the branch a baby shower. We usually have a large attendance and enjoy ourselves together. 'These occasions have made our members feel more united and have given them a greater understanding of each other's needs and a better acquaintance with the group." Western States Mission LUCILE B. MADSEN, former president, Western States Mission Relief Societies, reported' in December 1945: "As it is near the close of the year and also of my mission, I desire to make a brief report of the condition * NOTES FROM THE FIELD 429 - NORTHERN STATES MISSION, CLEVELAND (OHIO) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Front row, left to right: Lyall Amott, First Counselor North Ohio District; Stella Israelson, President North Ohio District; Emma Glauser, President Cleveland Branch; Hester Henshaw, Scott; Uretta Carle; Belle Gannett: Back row, left to tight: Virginia Sno Hill; Hedwig Schneidereit; Hazel Robison Helena Ray; May Ridges; Thelma Archer of the Relief Societies of the Western States Mission. This year we have organized three new Societies: Fort Summer, New Mexico: Bridgeport, Nebraska; and Rapid City, South Dakota. The Clovis, New Mexico, Relief Society has been reorganized and is functioning again. We have four very fine district supervisors. Annie Ellsworth of Lubbock, Texas, supervises our East New Mexico District; Emma Allen, of Omaha, Nebraska, is in charge of our Winter Quarters District; Lucille Freeman of Grants, New Mexico, supervises the West New Mexico District; Marie Hymas has charge of the Scottsbluff and Black Hills District. All four travel regularly and report to me each week. Their splendid supervision is doing much to help the women in our outlying districts. "Wherever in the districts I have inspected the welfare assignments, I have been delighted with the First Counselor; Violet Platt, Second Counselor; Mary w; Helen Skousen; Alta Gallagher; Margaret n; Eva Pulley; Renee Wright; Cecil Bean;; Gertrude Wilstead; Virginia Howard. Workmanship, the quality, and the quantity. We have a large supply of new clothing and bedding on hand, as well as a huge chest containing cleaned and repaired used clothing. Bazaars and food sales have been held in many of our branches, in an effort to help raise building funds. In Sheridan, Wyoming, $500 was raised this year by a small group for this purpose. "Our October reports were really amazing the best attendance record in the history of the mission. Also, I am very happy to report that nearly 100 per cent of our organizations are holding a monthly preparation meeting. I feel that the fine condition of the organizations is largely due to their holding these planning meetings for unified, purposeful work. "My work has been truly inspiring to me. It is with reluctance I leave the Relief Society women of this mission." Work Meeting Mash-Sack Magic REGISTER Mary A. Hansen, President of the Uvada (Nevada) Stake Relief Society, reports an unusual sewing project which has helped to solve some of the urgent problems confronting homemakers at this time. "During these years," says Sister Hansen, "when the purchase of materials for household uses has been so difficult, many women have tuneed to substitutes. One of the questions frequently asked is, "These mash sacks, what about them? I understand that sheets can be made from them. What do you do to get them white?' "Because of this interest, our stake Relief Society board used the sack project last year. We bought two hundred and seventy-five sacks from the turkey growers for ten cents apiece. Each board member took some of the sacks to bleach and turn into something useful and lovely for our bazaar. "A wonderfully easy way to bleach these paint-marked sacks into snowy white cloth is as follows: Put about eighteen sacks, which have been opened by removing the threads and shaken to remove the mash dust, into a large tub and pour a gallon of kerosene (coal oil) over them. This amount of kerosene will just dampen this many sacks. Let them soak for several hours or over night. Page 430 Then, with hot soapsuds (the more soap used the more quickly the sacks will become white), put them in the washing machine for several minutes, wring out, and wash again with another strong soapsuds. Some sacks may require three or four washings for thorough bleaching. "Ironed well, the mash sacks can be easily made into many useful items for the home many things that we still cannot buy in the stores. These sacks can be made into beautifully decorated dish towels, tablecloths, pillowcases, sheets, boys' shorts, little girls' slips, women's pajamas, and many other necessities. "To make pillowcases, fold the sacks with the selvage at the top for the hems. This makes the cases wider. Put a crocheted edge on them, a bit of embroidery, and when they are starched and ironed they resemble linen. To make dish towels for a very special gift or for your own dishtowel drawer, buy a transfer pattern for use in making embroidery designs, or cut some applique patterns fruits, flowers, or leaves. Even plain, with nice straight hems, you will have dish towels that will be a welcome addition to the household linen closet. These are large towels and are very easy to launder. "To make a pair of pajamas for a WORK MEETING woman, use three and a half sacks: if the pajamas are to have short sleeves. Use braid, rickrack, or some attractive print from the scrap bag for trimming the white material. "Get a pattern and make your little girls some easy-to-launder slips for school. Make some shorts for your boys. Make yourself an apron with brightly colored trimming. "To make mash sacks into lovely little crib quilts, a sack is cut into sixteen even blocks. A little kitten, lamb, dog, or child design can be o 431 stamped on each block. When the blocks are embroidered and set together with colored material and quilted, they will be proudly studied and enjoyed by the small boy or girl. These quilts, fifty-two by sixty inches in size, will provide warm covers for cold nights. "To make something useful and beautiful out of 'practically nothing' is an achievement of which to be proud. Let us help to encourage the home arts, even to the use of a bit of mash-sack magic." Note: The directions for the project ""Let's Make Dickies" which appeared in the April Magazine were submitted by Sister Larene Lindquist of the South Salt Lake Stake; and the suggestions for making the '"'Grosgrain Ribbon Handbag," published in May, were submitted by Sister Blanche Hansen White of the Boise Stake. We wish to thank these sisters for their excellent suggestions. <> LITTLE QUAILS TAKE A WALK Lydia Hall They follow where their mother goes And try to match her stride; Though they are small, they all contain Large quantities of pride. It is adventurous, this trip Which now they undertake, And one with those that history gives To Raleigh and to Drake. There are so many dangers here, And they're so soft and shy; A sharp-clawed hawk is sometimes hid In the wide, velvet sky. But as they march through sun-warmed sand, Past scanty brush and stone, They view the world with wonderment And claim it as their own. Page 432 MOTHERS OF THIS DAY Gene Romolo THE CUP Mothers of this day, the acrid cup That life so often brims and brims anew For woman's lips, is once more lifted up, Brimming with its bitterness for you; And you, whose will would dash the cup to earth, Must dnnk long draughts from it. Do pangs and fears, That you have suffered at man's hour of birth, Appear ill-recompensed in these dire years? Then, Mothers, think of her, who, weeping, stood Beside a cross and watched athwart a hill, Its shadow deep, until a lowered rood Yielded from its nails her Son grown still! Mary drained the cup of Calvary When she beheld her Son's death agony. COMPENSATION When Time shall fold Grief's veil back from each face, And you behold an ideal in a morrow That you have helped to mold, and, by God's grace, You learn that she, the mother of all sorrow, Is not the one whose son, hate crucifies, But she beneath whose heart, in embryo, A Judas lay; then, verily your eyes, Now drenched with tears, will shine with prideful glow, For never falls a hero but is bred A valiant spark that grows into a flare To illuminate the way that lies ahead? You, mothers of this day, who still must share The honor that your loyal children win In conflict to defeat a scourge of sin. TRANSFIGURATION After Calvary, transfiguration As surely comes as day succeeds the night; Blackout now is lifted, and each nation Is flooded with beneficence of light. Young mothers in the crook of their fond arms Will cradle proudly many a wee head, Assured of safety from world-clutching harms, Because another generation bled And died a generation that you bore. Mothers of this day, because of you, the soil Will be resculptured patterned as before Grim-visaged men laid waste the fruits of toil, And the bird of peace again will build its nest, To brood strong fledglings under wings and breast. M: U-S'LC SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY I LOVE A LITTLE COTTAGE (O'Hara) 15 FLAG WITHOUT A STAIN (White), BLESS THIS HOUSE as GOD IS LOVE (Shelley).. 12 ALICE BLUE GOWN (Tierney) PEACE I LEAVE WITH YOU (Roberts)....@ Above numbers in octavo. Less 10% discount plus postage. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos. Band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 57 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 National | BIBLES SINCE 1863 AT YOUR Now as never before you must know how to live well on a restricted diet! To help combat starvation in Europe and Asia, America must share its bounty by eating less. To do your part more effectively READ THIS BOOK? '*"How To Be Well" By LEAH D. WIDTSOE FILLED WITH RECIPES AND VALUABLE INFORMATION BASED ON THE NEWER KNOWLEDGE OF NUTRITION. IT SHOWS YOU AND YOUR FAMILY HOW TO ENJOY BETTER HEALTH, MORE ECONOMICALLY, THROUGH PROPER DIET. SEND FOR $900 YOUR COPY NOW.? DESERET BOOK COMPANY THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST 44 East South Temple P. O. Box 958 Salt Lake City 10, Utah Enclosed is 8.................-.-... Send................ Copies of "How to Be Well" at $2.00 per copy. Name.......000........---....... Address.......... When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine PRODUCT OF AMERICAN FARMS SUGAR PURE GRANULATED
