
VOL. 33 NO 2 FEBRUARY 1946 Lessons for May

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford President
Marianne C. Sharp First Counselor
Gertrude R. Garff Second Counselor
Margaret C. Pickering Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Anna B. Hart
Florence J. Madsen
Blanche B. Stoddard
Mary G. Judd
Edith S. Elliott
Ann P. Nibley
Evon W. Peterson
Luella N. Adams
Priscilla L. Evans
Leone G. Layton
Leone O. Jacobs
Velma N. Simonsen

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Marianne C. Sharp
Editorial Secretary Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 33 FEBRUARY 1946 No. 2

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
American Statesmen Their Attitude Toward God Elder El Ray L. Christiansen 75
Mormonism in the Eyes of the Press: The World Receives the News of Joseph Smith's Death Elder James R. Clark 78
Abraham Lincoln Speaks Again Vesta P. Crawford 81
What the Children Can Do For Dr. M. Lynn Bennion 84
Fifty and One Ideas For You and For Your Home Blanche M. Condie 91

FICTION
The Ring of Strength Second Prize Story Alice Morrey Bailey 86
Ring Out the Old Estelle Webb Thomas 96
And For Eternity Chapter 9 Olive Woolley Burt 100

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 106
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 107
Star in Her Window Ruth H. Chadwick 108
Editorials: "Study My Word" Marianne C. Sharp 109
Congratulations to Sister Lyman on Her Birthday 110
Notes From the Field: Messages From the Missions (Continued) General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering 111
Music Notes Dr. Florence J. Madsen 119

LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology: The Building of Temples Continues Dr. H. Wayne Driggs 120
Visiting Teachers' Messages: Charity Never Faileth Dr. Lowell L. Bennion 124
Literature: Bible Influence as Revealed in Children's Literature Dr. Howard R. Driggs 125
Social Science: Morality and the Church Dr. Harold T. Christensen 128

POETRY
The Dream Is Ours Frontispiece Christie Lund Coles 73
To Elizabeth Olive M. Nicholes 80
The Storm Evelyn Fjeldsted 83
To Marie Adeline J. Haws 85
My Old Green Chest Grace M. Candland 90
Elsie C. Carroll 95
Twilight Ada N. Jones 99
Crucible Beatrice K. Ekman 105
A Prayer Celia Van Cott 132

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 74,000

MAGAZINE VOL. 33, NO. 2 FEBRUARY 1946 THE DREAM IS OURS Christie Lund Coles If Washington could come to Valley Forge And stand where gallant men gave precious life, These are, perhaps, the words that he would say, Beholding man's disunity and strife: "You, living, would preserve your heritage Had you but seen the cost of freedom, known the hope That calls to the downtrodden of the world, Sensed its promise and visualized its scope." If Lincoln could return from out the night, Beyond the misted stars that guard his sleep, He'd stand before us, heavy-laden, sad With eyes too full of weariness to weep. And he would say, I think, if he could speak: 'We fought our battle well. We won the fight. We died for a great cause, that brotherhood Be born and grow into a living light. "How can your hearts betray us, we who died, Who cannot rest with war stalking the earth; Who know how many have been crucified To bring this hard-won freedom into birth. "Now, now before it is forever late, Search well your souls, let go your greed and lust, Unite together for the common good, And make a world to justify our trust." If Washington and Lincoln could return To stand upon these loved and sacred shores, They'd say: "The duty and the dream were ours... And now the duty... And the dream... Are yours!" The Cover: "Bryce Canyon" from a photograph by Dr. Walter P. Cottam —Photograph courtesy South Dakota State Highway Commission, Pierre, South Dakota "THE SHRINE OF DEMOCRACY," MOUNT RUSHMORE MEMORIAL, SOUTH DAKOTA American Statesmen—Their Attitude Toward God Elder El Ray L. Christiansen President Logan Temple HAT America has a divine destiny is shown by the decrees of the Almighty as recorded in the scriptures. In the Book of Mormon the Lord has said: _.. Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall possess it shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the God of the land, who is Jesus Christ (Ether 2:12). This is a wonderful promise, but like other promises of the Lord, its fulfillment is dependent upon adherence to the righteous principles upon which the promise is predicated. It makes no difference how mighty and strong a nation is, how rich in resources or how powerful in military might, if it ceases to have faith in God and fails to govern its people according to principles of righteousness, it faces certain downfall. Nor does our beloved America stand exempt, for the Lord God who brought it into being, and has greatly favored it, decreed that if the American people should forget the Lord and "become ripened in iniquity" they would be swept off. If this should happen, or if subjugation should come to the people of this land, it will come because we in America have reached a fulness of iniquity. It seems reasonable to believe that the fate of a republican form of government is determined by the degree of its adherence to the principles of Christianity, and that governments and people who reject these principles will find themselves slaves to their own evil ways or of some arbitrary power. It is impossible to govern the world successfully without God, for, after all, God governs the world. Justice to man and a settled faith in God should be two of the most outstanding attributes of the statesmen of America. The progress and perpetuity of this great government, and for that matter of any democracy, depends upon the righteous endeavor of its statesmen, as well as its citizens, and their adherence to the religion of the Master. "Righteousness exalteth a nation: but sin is a reproach to any people" (Prov. 14:34). It is encouraging to know that the great majority of the statesmen of America have, in some degree to say the least, acknowledged a faith in God and in righteous living. We can safely say that those who have achieved lasting greatness in America have been God-fearing men who have felt dependent upon an almighty power and who acknowledged that power from time to time. We believe that the Lord prepared for the time when his gospel should be restored in its fulness to Page 75 the earth. We consider that the men in the American Revolution were inspired by the Almighty to throw off the shackles of the mother government. For this purpose Adams, Jefferson, Franklin, Washing: ton, and a host of others were inspired to deeds of resistance and to bringing into existence the Constitution of the United States. To the Latter-day Saints the Constitution is an inspired document, for the Lord has said: For this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood (Doc. And Cov. 101:80). Statements from these early patriots prove that they were humble men who recognized their dependence upon the goodness of God. Let me list a few: Washington openly acknowledged the hand of Providence in shaping the affairs and destiny of America, for he said: No people can be found to acknowledge and adore the Invisible Hand which conducts the affairs of men more than the people of the United States. Every step by which they have advanced to the character of an independent nation seems to have been distinguished by some token of providential agency. There were many occasions during the Revolutionary War when Washington demonstrated his faith in the guidance and protection of the Supreme Being, and often expressed his belief that "God in His great goodness will direct the course of the conflict." In his first Thanksgiving Proclamation as President of the United States of America, Washington declared: edge the providence of the Almighty God to obey His will, to be grateful for His benefits, and humbly implore His protection and favor. How could a nation go far astray in its policies with a leader who looked to God for wisdom and implored others to do likewise? He felt that the determinations of Providence were always wise whether they appeared to be in his favor or not. When in command of the Virginia Regiment, he gave orders for the officers and men under his command to assemble each Sunday and have prayers and devotion. He maintained that "True religion and morals afford a government its purest support." Elbert Hubbard said of Washington, "His purity of purpose stands unimpeached, his steadfast earnestness and sterling honesty are priceless examples." GENUINE religious feeling was deep in the heart of Benjamin Franklin. He prayed that he might be preserved from atheism, irreverence, ostentations, and hypocrisy. His great desire was to be loyal to "my Prince," that he might remain humble and submissive to the will of the Lord. It was he who calmly arose in the Constitutional Convention after days of discord and little progress and said: Mr. President, I perceive that we are not in condition to pursue this business Our blood is too hot... - the different which, having been formed with the seeds of their own dissolution, now no longer exist. In this situation of this assembly, groping as it were in the dark, to find 16 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 political truth, and scarce able to distinguish it when presented to us, how has it happened, Sir, that we have not hitherto once thought of humbly applying to the Father of light to illuminate our understanding? In the beginning of the contest with Great Britain, when we were sensible to danger, we had daily prayer in this room for divine protection. Our prayers, Sir, were heard; and they were graciously answered. To that kind Providence we owe this happy opportunity of consulting, in peace, on the means of establishing our future national felicity; and have we now forgotten that powerful Friend? Or do we imagine that we no longer need His assistance? I have lived, Sir, a long time; and the longer I live the more convincing proofs I see of this truth, that God governs the affairs of men. It is said that after the convention accepted Franklin's suggestion and called upon the Lord for help, distinct progress was made and our magnificent Constitution was the result. There is always hope for progress and safe legislation when our statesmen realize their own limitations and earnestly seek the Lord's help! The religion of Abraham Lincoln was based in both doctrine and practice on the Savior's admonition "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.... And.... Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." He joined no particular church but, nevertheless, he stands before us as one humbly seeking the inspiration, counsel, and help of the Almighty, praying for guidance from above and giving help and sympathy to all about him. He had an unshaken faith in the ultimate success of the right, and in the darkest hours of his days in the White House, he declared that he almost lived on his knees. In reply to an address from the Society of Friends, delivered to him at the White House, September 28, 1862, Lincoln said: I am glad to know I have your sympathy and prayers. In the very responsible position in which I happen to be placed, being a humble instrument in the hands of our Heavenly Father, as I am and as we all are, to work out His great purposes, I have desired that all my works and acts may be according to His will and that it might be so, I have sought His aid. In the life of Woodrow Wilson, religion was so ingrained that there was never speculation, let alone doubt, in regard to Deity. He had an absolutely immovable faith in God. He once declared in public, "I do not understand how any man can approach the discharge of the duties of life without faith in the Lord Jesus Christ." He faithfully observed the Sabbath Day. He knew that the fate and progress of the nation were dependent upon the spir itual integrity of its citizens, for he said, "Our civilization cannot survive materially unless it be redeemed spiritually." Calvin Coolidge states in his autobiography that when the office of President of the United States came to him, following the death of President Harding, he and his wife knelt in prayer before leaving their bedroom where the message was given him, and asked God to "bless the American people and give me the power to serve them." Many times thereafter he approached God in prayer supplicating him for wisdom. Surely here is a mark of greatness. William Jennings Bryan, one of America's distinguished statesmen who swayed audiences with his oratory and who was three times candidate for President, had a most whole some concept of God and a firm belief in the efficacy of prayer. AMERICAN STATESMEN—THEIR ATTITUDE TOWARD GOD 71 Said he: The great need of the world today is to get back to God—back to a real belief in a living God—to a belief in God as creator, preserver, and loving Heavenly Father. When one believes in a personal God and considers himself as part of God's plan, he will be anxious to know God's will and to do it, seeking direction through prayer and made obedient through faith... President Harry S. Truman has indicated his need of God's help since he has already called for special days of prayer for victory, thanksgiving and peace, and has asked the people of America to seek divine aid in maintaining the peace. Surely any nation in the hands of statesmen who habitually seek divine guidance is more certain of realizing its rightful destiny than would otherwise be the case. While a religious attitude on the part of an individual does not place him beyond error, it is certain that, with a genuine desire for righteousness, he is a better man and will more likely be a better servant of the people. This belief is sustained in modern revelation where we read: We believe that governments were instituted of God for the benefit of man; and that he holds men accountable for their acts in relation to them, both in making laws and administering them, for the good and safety of society (Doc. And Cov. 134:1).. From the same source we obtain this admonition, "wherefore, honest men and wise men should be sought for diligently, and good men and wise men ye should observe to uphold; otherwise whatsoever is less than these cometh of evil" (Doc. And Cov. 98:10). Indeed, "Righteousness exalteth a nation!" Se comes TO ELIZABETH Olive M. Nicholes The notes take wing beneath your finger tips; On bright, ecstatic pinions beat the air Like larks, still rising up until the lips, In unison, burst forth in glorious song. Even the scales—like busy little quail Running through blowing grass the whole day long, Twitter and nod each black, top-knotted crest. Beethoven's, Brahm's, and Mozart's melodies Live, re-created in your soul, thrice blest, While I, who held your head against my heart, Can only marvel at the miracle: That of this splendid one, I share a part. 78 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 Abraham Lincoln Speaks Again Vesta P. Crawford TODAY the career of Abraham Lincoln is being remembered with a new vividness and a new devotion. There are many who think once more of his famous "House Divided" speech and of his immortal words—"With malice toward none." Abraham Lincoln has been called the Great American, the Kingly Commoner, the World's Foremost Citizen. More than four thousand full-length books have been written about his life. Songs and plays have celebrated his words and deeds, his name is a household word throughout the land. It is still the American dream that the most humble boy may some day become President. One of Lincoln's best friends analyzed his remarkable rise to power in these simple words: How such a man as Lincoln could walk up to the highest point of human grandeur, from such low origin, God only knows. But he was so ordained from the beginning, and so it is. From among the thousands of poems written in honor of the Great Emancipator, there is one outstanding composition that bears a message for our times. Written with reference to the first World War and what might have been Lincoln's attitude towards it, this poem is just as true, just as vivid, today and there is a world of thought back of each simple line. At this time of remembering Lincoln, this honoring of his birth. Day, it is entirely suitable to recall the words of the poem "Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight." The author is Vachel Lindsay who was born in Springfield, Illinois, in the year 1870. From his boyhood Vachel was familiar with the streets where Lincoln walked, the houses where he lived, the courts where he tried his cases, the fields where he wandered in contemplation. Vachel grew up on the Lincoln stories of how Abraham walked along the streets reading a book, sometimes not even noticing the people who passed, how he stayed very late in his law office pondering over the intricacies of the State code, how he made speeches, homely, understandable speeches, in the days when he was running for office. Vachel Lindsay was familiar with the history of Lincoln's life and he knew also the feel of the same country, the reach of the prairie, the solitude of the forest, the tide of the rivers. He knew the same type of people that Lincoln had known. Very early he heard the story of how young "Abe" came from Indiana to Illinois. This man, this long, tall, bony, homely, wiry, sad, gloomy man floated into our country in 1831, in a frail canoe down the north fork of the Sangamon River, friendless, penniless, powerless, and alone, tagged, struggling for the common necessities of life. In the years between 1905 and 1910 when Vachel Lindsay, the young poet-reformer, was lecturing Page 79 for the Y. M. C. A. And the Anti-Saloon League, he was particularly interested in studying what had been Lincoln's attitude toward the temperance question. He collected the statements of such men as James Gourley, who said: Lincoln was a great temperance man..... He would go afoot five or ten miles to talk..... I got him to join the Sons of Temperance in 1854. And once Lincoln said, "I never drink and am entitled to no credit therefor, because I hate the stuff." Vachel Lindsay studied every phase of Lincoln's character before he began writing his famous poem. The opening lines strike a contemplative mood: It is portentous, and a thing of state That here at midnight in our little town, A mourning figure walks and will not rest, Near the old court-house pacing up and down. No doubt Lindsay was thinking back to what Springfield must have been like when Lincoln first came to the place in 1837, the year that Springfield became the capital of Illinois. Lincoln had left the New Salem country to the east where, two years before, he had seen Ann Rutledge die. She was only twenty-two then, golden-haired and blue-eyed, and Lincoln, who was twenty-six, was already a member of the State Legislature and a man of ability and promise. The poem, in the second verse, tells of the places in Springfield where Lincoln walked: Or by his homestead or in shadowed yards He lingers where his children used to play; Or through the market on the well-worn stones, He walks until the dawn-stars burn away. BY his homestead. That tall house where he and his wife, Mary Todd, lived for many years. The house where Robert Todd Lincoln was born in the year 1843, the place where the other Lincoln boys spent their happiest days, a house where children's voices echoed through the big rooms. The well-worn stones of the street where Lincoln pulled his children in their little wagon. The streets where Lincoln talked with his neighbors who helped him to see the vital problems that faced not only Springfield but every town in America. A bronzed lank man! His suit of ancient black, A famous high-top hat and plain worn shawl, Make his the quaint figure that men love, The prairie lawyer, master of us all. This portrait of Lincoln is familiar to everyone, familiar from picture and poem and story. It has been said that when "Lincoln was moved by some great or good feeling—by some idea of liberty or justice or right—then he seemed an inspired man. It was then that Lincoln's nature was beautiful and in complete harmony with the laws of the great Eternal..... Lincoln was a great man, a good man, and a pure one, and beneath his rough exterior nature wove her fine network." He cannot sleep upon his hillside now, He is among us—as in times before! And we who toss and lie awake for long Breathe deep, and start, to see him pass the door. Upon his hillside. The tomb of Lincoln lies in Oak Ridge Cemetery, Springfield, Illinois. 'The monument which dedicates the burial plot is 80 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 ABRAHAM LINCOLN SPEAKS AGAIN made of brick faced with Quincy granite. An obelisk 135 feet high rises from the monument. BUT Vachel Lindsay, the poet, thinks of Lincoln as still alive in the city he loved. His head is bowed. He thinks of men and kings. Yea, when the sick world cries, how can he sleep? Too many peasants fight, they know not why; Too many homesteads in black terror weep. The sins of all the war-lords burn his heart. He sees the dreadnaughts scouring every main. He carries on his shawl-wrapped shoulders now The bitterness, the folly and the pain, Here the interpretation of Lincoln's character is given in its broad strength. For this American believed unwaveringly in the possibilities of everyone. To him there was no living soul who did not have "a kernel of divinity." One of Lincoln's associates, in analyzing his elements of greatness, said: "He was a kind, tender, and sympathetic man, feeling deeply in the presence of suffering, pain, wrong, Or oppression in any shape.... He was just to men, he loved the night, the good, the true, with all his soul. He was always noble..... Mr. Lincoln now stands up against the deep blue sky, the grandest figure of the age." 81 He cannot rest until a spirit dawn Shall come—the shining hope of Europe fie: The league of sober folk, the Worker's Earth, Bringing long peace to cornland, Alp and sea, Those who were privileged to live in Lincoln's generation have borne witness of his limitless courage. "If he was defending right, defending liberty, eulogizing the Declaration of Independence, then he extended out his arms, the palms of his hands upwards, as if appealing to some superior power for assistance and support. It was at such moments that he seemed inspired, fresh from the hands of the Creator," Lincoln's gray eyes would flash fire when he was speaking against slavery, and they spoke volumes of hope and love when he referred to justice, liberty, and the progress of mankind. It breaks his heart that kings must murder still, That all his hours of travail here for men Seem yet in vain. And who will bring white peace That he may sleep upon his hill again? The poem ends with a question, a challenge—who will there be in this time of need to uphold the ideals of Abraham Lincoln and place them upon a standard high enough for all the world to see? "I go for all sharing the privilege of the government who assist in bearing its burden”—Abraham Lincoln Second Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest The Ring of Strength Alice Morrey Bailey MILLIE WALTERS sat very still. Across from her, Dr. Phelps leaned forward through the shaft of afternoon sunlight, intently searching her face, dreading, she knew, to tell her what he had to say. "Cancer," he said finally. "Is it—is it—? Would an operation—" Millie faltered through dry lips. "If you had. Only come sooner! Millie, it's too late. I could operate, yes, but it wouldn't do any good." "How long?" Millie managed. "Six months. Maybe a little more, with care." Dimly she heard his voice going on in prognostication. "Millie, if I didn't know you so well I wouldn't have told you. You make such precious use of time. Can I take you home?" he finished. "I have my car. I'll be all right." "Yes, I think you will," Dr. Phelps said, an edge of admiration in his voice. It was oddly true that Millie was all right. Strange that she could follow the pattern of gear shifting, could thread her way through the heavy traffic of the business district with some cool, mechanical part of her, while the real woman cowered Page 82 ALICE MORREY BAILEY back, unable to cope with this terrifying lump of truth that sat immovable, blocking every normal thought in the roadways of her mind. Strange that, longing as she did to flee to the cool sanctuary of her room, she could go about the usual preparations of the family dinner. Julie, seven, was already home from school and came presently to ask her for a bonnet. "Not a regular bonnet, Mommy. A pi'neer bonnet, you know, that comes out in the front and down in the back." THE RING OF STRENGTH "You mean a slat bonnet? Yes, I can make one. Great-grandmother Preece wore one across the plains when she was your age." Julie leaned her small elbows on the window sill and looked wistfully up to the blossoming pear tree. "Pi'neers were just about the bravest people in the world. They had just lots and lots of courage. I wish I was a pi'neer, don't you, Mother?" ''I certainly do, Julie." Never more than now, she thought, had she wished for the courage of the pioneers. The need for help was heavy upon her. It was too stupendous a burden to bear alone. Her family would be kind to her when she told them, thoughtful. They would ease her tasks, bring her flow-ers and books. That might help. ''Do you think we'd have been pi-neers. Mother? Or do you think we'd have been too scaredy-cats to come across the plains?" 'The Indians are friendly now, good roads are built for us, food is plentiful— we have our lovely homes —I don't honestly know, Julie. I don't know what courage it would take to leave all this and go into an unknown wilderness. I guess we'll never know." AT the dinner table she looked at her family of five as an artist weighs his handiwork, lovingly but critically, at everything about them, their looks, their mannerisms, for every act revealed the character and identity of each. "For Pete's sake," Tod was saying to Anne. "Mother's right. A guy trying to get through medical school has two strikes already on him when he's married." "Not Bob," said Anne. "He wants it as much as I do. I'd work. I'd help him." "Work! Ha! You can't even boil water, rinse your own nylons or make your bed. First thing you'd do is have a b a by. Then wher e 'd he be?" Anne was crestfallen in momentary defeat. "Mother! Diane goes— all the girls are going to the dance— please say I can," begged Lois suddenly. Millie glanced at their father, but he was subdued in his thoughts as if he hadn't heard. "We'll discuss it later," she said. "Look, Small Stuff, you're under seventeen,” said Tod from his lofty twenty years. "Besides, you haven't got a date . Millie, li stening to this non-rancorous banter thought, with sick misgivings: They're spoiled! And I did it. Tod was right about Anne —Lois, too, in the sloppy clothes she wears, tempestuous, unpredictable and immature; wanting poise at the dangerous age of mistaking sophistication for it. Even Tod was presumptuous and overbearing, though he was on the right track educationally. It w as law for his father, and law for him. His logic was good, his justice unshakable, if only Henry would see it and help him. What would the ugly truth hiding within her do to them? Certainly it would as diabolically shift their valuations as it had her own in a few short seconds. Henry was even more dependent on her than were the children, the sort of man who couldn't find a shirt or tie a tie. Millie knew that these things were trivial beside the deeper needs Henry felt for her, his habit, "Not Bob," said Anne. "He wants it as much as I do. I'd work. I'd help him." "Work! Ha! You can't even boil water, rinse your own nylons or make your bed. First thing you'd do is have a b a by. Then wher e 'd he be?" Anne was crestfallen in momentary defeat. "Mother! Diane goes— all the girls are going to the dance— please say I can," begged Lois suddenly. Millie glanced at their father, but he was subdued in his thoughts as if he hadn't heard. "We'll discuss it later," she said. "Look, Small Stuff, you're under seventeen/' said Tod from his lofty twenty years. "Besides, you haven't got a date . Millie, listening to this non-rancorous banter thought, with sick misgivings: They're spoiled! And I did it. Tod was right about Anne —Lois, too, in the sloppy clothes she wears, tempestuous, unpredictable and immature; wanting poise at the dangerous age of mistaking sophistication for it. Even Tod was presumptuous and overbearing, though he was on the right track educationally. It w as law for his father, and law for him. His logic was good, his justice unshakable, if only Henry would see it and help him. What would the ugly truth hiding within her do to them? Certainly it would as diabolically shift their valuations as it had her own in a few short seconds. Henry was even more dependent on her than were the children, the sort of man who couldn't find a shirt or tie a tie. Millie knew that these things were trivial beside the deeper needs Henry felt for her, his habit, me please, Mother. I'm not a child, you know." The usual arguments. "Ask your father," said Millie. "Ask Father?" Lois' jaw dropped and she searched Millie's face for signs of surrender. Henry looked up from his paper, his face blank with surprise. Millie could see the usual words forming in his mind and calmly beat him to it. "It is entirely up to your father. Anything he says is all right with me." To make it more final she left the room. Anne had already gone up-stairs to g et ready for Bob, who was coming at eight. Millie met Tod in the hallway. "Mom, have you gone out of your mind?" he whispered. "Dad'll let her go, and that place is a den of wolves," Millie looked him straight in the eyes. "I'm sure your father's judgment can be trusted," she said, and passed him, "Well, for Pete's sake!"' Anne met her at the head of the stairs. "Mother what am | going to tell Bob? What have you against him? Why don't you let us get Married? | Suppose it is because he is only a student and you think he isn't good enough—" "I think Bob is a very fine young man!" "Then why—?" "I was thinking of Bob)" Anne's eyes were big and unbe. Lieving. "You mean that you think that I-your own daughter—" Millie took Anne's chin into her hand and tilted the flushed face up, looking deeply into the blue eyes. "Anne, when you marry a doctor you marry someone who comes as 84 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 THE RING OF STRENGTH neatly being above mortals as humans ever get—a good doctor, | mean. And Bob is going to be that kind. Only one thing could stop him—someone he loves as much as he does you." "But Mother, don't you think that [—?" "The truth is, I don't know. No mother ever loved a child more than I do you, but the biggest share of a mother's love is hope, and the rest blind faith." "Mother, I think you're awful," sobbed Anne as she fled. "I'll be eighteen in another month, and no one can stop me." MILLIE stood there a minute while the weakness and heartache reached up in her, but not for long. Lois was rushing wildly up the stairs. "Mother! Mother, he says I can go. You don't need to tell me what to wear—I know exactly, and Julie can watch me dress, like she does Anne." "What a welcome silence—like turning off the washer," commented Millie later, as the front door closed on the chattering girls. Anne had gone with Bob long since, and Julie was in bed. Tod was rumpling his hair over lessons at the living room desk, and Henry was pacing up his legal problem as Millie picked up her darning. "Better than that," he grumbled. "Like turning off the power in a machine shop." "What's on your mind, Henry? You've been thoughtful all evening." "It's that Moody case. I know that man is guilty—but how to drive it 85 into the open. The whole thing is clouded up with clever psychology. The man seems invulnerable. The whole thing is bound to be laughed right out of court." "I know. It has every aspect of the Wilson case years ago. They got him, though," said Millie, biting off a thread. "The Wilson case," ruminated Henry. "Just how did that go now?" Henry knew that case forward and backward but it was Millie's cue, she knew, to be drawn into it. Suddenly she longed intensely for just that. "T saw Tod cramming on it just the other night. Tod, tell your father about that Wilson case." Henry stopped short in the middle of the floor, gave her an amazed look, and glanced at Tod as if he were an intruder. Millie held her breath, but Tod answered: "Sure Dad. It was like this—" and was off to a brilliant summation when Millie made her escape, murmuring vague excuses. She could see surprise and interest registering on Henty's face, and felt a little pang of jealousy. Their voices rose and fell while she lay rigid in her bed staring into nightmare, worrying over them all, but especially Lois. That place was as Tod said—a den of wolves. What had she done, casting a baby like Lois among them? What had she done to Anne? What invisible tides dragged at a girl cut adrift without the assurance of her mother's faith? And to Henry, sidetracking in his need for her? What of Tod? And what of Julie! When Henry came to bed at ten she feigned sleep, though she heard his sigh of satisfaction and knew his problem was settled, clear-cut in his mind. She lay awake while emotion built up in her, slow anger that she should be cut short of life, of her work as a mother and wife, unreasoned anger at Dr. Phelps. In the face of such futility, ignorance would have been easier.. - - SHE was still awake, fighting the frantic worry over Lois at one o'clock when she felt Henry start with the same thought. Lois should be home now. She should have caught the twelve-forty lineup. Henry should have made arrangements to pick up all the girls at the dance. It had been hard not to point it out to him at their leaving; as hard now to keep still and let him worry alone. Anne, too, should be home. Bob never kept her out after twelve, but Henry wasn't giving her a thought. He was dressing now, interrupting himself to look anxiously out the window at every suggestion of a footstep on the street below. Presently a knock came at the bedroom door. It was Tod, fully dressed, in the light of the hall. "Where do you think the kid is? It's anybody's guess at this time of night." "Sh—. Don't waken your mother. We'll get in the car and go find her." It was another hour of weariness and despair before Anne came, Bob with her. A bedraggled Anne with limp hair and white lips. Bob brought her up the stairs and to Millie's door. Millie sat up, clasping the blankets about her. "There was an accident. We came along right after. Pretty gory, but I think they will all live." Bob was exhausted, but there was 4 lilt of pride in his voice. "Anne was right in there with me. She's solid! The ambulance came finally. I have to report to the police. Got them to let me drop Anne off before she passed out on me. She'll do!" He held up his hand in a little signal of valor and was gone. "Don't get up, Mother. I want to get in with you. Oh, Mother!" Anne collapsed sobbing into Millie's arms, shivering with nervous reaction. Millie tucked the covers around her and patted her, letting her cry until she was warm and quiet. "He was magnificent, Mother. He knew just everything to do. There was a man with a broken leg and a woman with a fractured skull. They were all in shock—broken glass every where. I helped. I did everything Bob told me—but I could see what you mean. Oh Mother, Bob knows so much, and I am so—so ignorant!" "The big thing is, Darling, you got through. You didn't faint, or scream, or pout because he didn't ay attention to you. Some girls would have, you know. You had courage." "Did I, Mother? Oh, Mother, do you think I could learn? He may never need me to help him in his actual work again. I realize this was an accident. What Bob needs is just what you are to me—someone reassuring to come home to—a home well-kept and warm and comfortable. I'm not going to work this summer. I'm going to run the house, and you're going to teach me everything about it that you know. And Mother! There's little sweet 86 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 THE RING OF STRENGTH Julie. I want children. Could I learn about them from her? I want to curl her hair, plan her food and her reading, take her places with me, and sew for her." JULIE laughed. "You can start that in the morning, since it is Saturday. She wants a slat bonnet so she can be a 'pi'neer.' Anne, some day I hope you will look back and see what a great load you have lifted from my heart by the things you've just told me." There was a great commotion on the street below. Nothing but a stripped-down car full of high school kids could produce the sputter and roar and too loud laughter. Lois coming home, and immediately the sound of brown car on the drive. There we: e sharp voices in the hallway. Td's demanding: "Does it occur to you, Ant-brain, that someone might be worrying about you? Or that Ye Olde Towne Clocke is still on duty if none of you had watches?" "I've not done a wrong thing, Tod Walters. Why can't I have some fun? Why can't I have some freedom? Can I help it if the other girls got dates at the dance, or if I missed the lineup, or if I had to depend on them to get me home?" Millie turned on her light as they came up the stairs and they all came in, Tod angry, Lois defiant, and Henry sternly judicial. "There's a good deal about this whole affair that could have been helped," he said. His voice was quiet, but edged with a new authority. "In the first place I should never have let you go, Lois, without the 87 proper arrangement and chaperonage. I assure you it will never happen again," That melted Lois. "Oh, gee, Daddy. I'm really sorry. I didn't think anyone would worry. I was all tight." She leaned against the doorjamb in a childish gesture of woe, and wept. "Hi, Kitten," said Tod, unable to bear it. "If you want to step out to dances I'll take you, only not garbed like that. You've got to dress like a lady if you go places with me." "Oh, Tod! Honest?" Instantly Lois was all smiles. "Mommy," she said, rushing over to kneel beside the bed. Anne slipped out to give her a place. "Will you let me have some nylons and a keen dress—the kind Anne wears?" At that moment, a sleepy-eyed Julie appeared in the doorway. Anne smiled and held out her hand as Julie came over to her. "What a family!" smiled Millie looking around at them. There they all were, more closely knit, more welded to purpose, more individually strong than even a few hours back —a circle of growing strength ever so little less dependent on her. And that was her job—any mother's job, to build strength and independence into her family. Tonight was only a pattern of the days to come. There would be the task, there would be the heartache, often despair, perhaps failure, but if tonight were the pattern of triumph, then what could be done in a lifetime—even a short lifetime of six months? Julie broke away from Anne and came to put slim little arms about her mother's neck, 88 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 "Mother, I saw you tonight, with courage on your face. You’d have been a pi’neer!” “Oh, Baby!” said Millie, winking back the tears. She looked up at Henry. He and Anne were exchanging that parental look of astonishment. Alice Morrey Bailey, musician, composer, sculptor, artist, and writer, is a remarkably gifted Latter-day Saint woman. In addition to her outstanding accomplishments in the fine arts, she is a skillful nurse and an exemplary wife and mother, At present Mrs. Bailey is organist in the Eleventh Ward (Salt Lake City) M. I. A. And also choir organist. She has served in many other Church organizations and has written several excellent pageants and dramatized programs. Mrs. Bailey won first place in the Utah State Federation of Women's Clubs Poetry Contest in 1941 and second place in 1939. She has twice (1943 and 1945) received the Deseret News Christmas Story award. Readers of the Relief Society Magazine are familiar with Mrs. Bailey's stories and poems. Her story "The Wilderness" placed first in the 1941 Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest and her serial "The Merry-Go-Round" was featured in the Magazine during 1941 and 1942. THE STORM Evelyn Fjeldsted Dark skies seem strangely ominous Old trees bend in the wooded glen, Rain drenched winds descend.—Then calm, And soon the sun comes out again. And so it is with life at times, The way obscured, we can but wait; The winter of our fear sweeps on, Again we see our course laid straight. MORMONISM IN THE EYES OF THE PREWSS Elder James R. Clark Brigham Young University Copyright 1946 II THE WORLD RECEIVES THE NEWS OF JOSEPH SMITH’S DEATH (Second installment of a series of articles on early Latter-day Saint history.) THE Salt Lake Tribune for Thursday morning, April 26, 1945 New York Times news release on a new experience in journalism. Delegates at the to San Francisco Conference were surprised to have placed in their hands on April 25th, a copy of that
day's New York Times which had been "put to bed" at 2 a.m. in New York, 3,000 miles away. This rather spectacular feat was accomplished in the following manner, according to the news release: The four pages were set in type in the
composing room of the New York Times, and printers' proofs were taken every half
page. Each of these proofs was transmitted to San Francisco Over the Wirephoto facilities of the t he Associated Press, just as photographs have been transmitted for several years. In the San Francisco office of the Associated Press, in the Chronicle Building, each negative of a half page was developed and a print of it was made, A messenger from the publishing plant of the Richmond Independent,  fifteen miles distant, picked up the prints and hastened with them to his office, where photoengravers put together the half pages in correct order,
photographed the resultant full pages and made zinc engravings. From the engravings, 2,000 copies of the four page newspaper were run off on a flatbed letterpress in the Independent plant. Remarkable as is this achievement
in communication of news, it is overshadowed by modern newscasting
through radio. It would have seemed nothing short of a miracle to my
grandfather, who was four years old at the time of Joseph Smith's death,
could he have experienced the rapidity of present-day newscasting over the radio which was in its infancy at is death in 1929. A miracle that within minutes, the news of President Roosevelt's death was flashed to all parts of the world, and
that within hours, the flags of nations known to grandfather only
through books, were at half-mast in honor of a President of the United
States. This modern flight of time is in sharp contrast to the pace of the
world one hundred years ago. At his death in 1844, Joseph Smith was a national figure. His death, too, was news. But there were no radios nor press associations with vast facilities to flash the word over vast spaces and continents. Yet, people then, as now, relied on the press for their knowledge of what was going On. One of the most widely circulated news items of one hundred years ago was the death of Joseph Smith, Mormon prophet, June 27, 1844 at 5:16 p. M. At Carthage, Illinois. Let us see how the news of the death of the Mormon leader reached the American and British publics. I cannot determine, from the newspaper files available, who got the "beat" on the death of Joseph Smith, but I suspect that an extra from the Warsaw Signal or the Nauvoo Neighbor might have had the first announcement off the press. The news was sent in a letter by messenger from Carthage jail at 8:05 p. M. To Nauvoo, but it did not arrive in Nauvoo until sunrise the next morning. In the meantime, two other messengers, George D. Grant and David Bettisworth, were dispatched and, although detained by Governor Ford of Illinois, they reached Nauvoo the night of June 27th and brought the first verbal news to Nauvoo On June 29th, the Lee County Democrat, Fort Madison, Iowa Territory, stopped their presses and inserted a postscript which announced the death of Joseph Smith. The editor said: The news reached here early the morning of yesterday, but little credence was at the time given to the report until about 3 P. M. When we received from the hands of a gentleman direct from Nauvoo the following developments.... ""To the Editor of the Lee Co. Democrat, Nauvoo, June 28, 1844, 9 o'clock a. M. Sir—I hasten to inform you that Joseph Smith, the Mormon prophet, and his brother, Hyrum Smith were murdered in the jail of this county, at about 5 o'clock yesterday afternoon." On July 1st the People's Organ, St. Louis, Missouri, said that it was hard to get correct information, but that they thought Joseph Smith's body had been taken back to Nauvoo. The Missouri Whig, Palmyra, Missouri, for July 3d said: Some miscreants entered the jail and shot Holy Joe... We have received no intelligence from the seat of war, since the last action. The Sangamo, Journal, Springfield, Illinois, on July 4th said: Smith has given himself up... Thus far our news seems to be certain. Rumor says further, that on Thursday of last week Joe Smith, Hyrum Smith, and Dr. Richards were shot by a mob at Carthage. We are incredulous in regard to the truth on this subject; and this feeling is general in this community. On July 10th, the Warsaw Signal, Warsaw, Illinois, published an official reprimand by Brig. General M. R. Deming to the newspapers of the State for misrepresenting the facts surrounding the death of Joseph Smith.: The July 11th issue of the Burlington Hawkeye, Burlington, Iowa, had an account of the funeral for Joseph Smith held in Nauvoo on June 2oth. On July 13th the Lee County Democrat published its regrets over the death of Joseph Smith, but not all papers were sorry. The Jones- ~ burgh Whig, Jonesburgh, Union County, Illinois said in its issue of July 24th: Death of Joe Smith—Some of the public journals, we are sorry to see, regret the death of Joe Smith, the Mormon prophet. The Mormon semi-monthly, published at Nauvoo, Illinois—The 90 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 MORMONISM IN THE EYES OF THE PRESS Times and Seasons—put their July 1st issue in "mourning" and had a full account of the death and funeral of Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum. In England, the Mormon editor and publisher of the Millennial Star ran a special supplement to the August 1844 issue in "mourning" in which he published practically all of the official correspondence between the Illinois State officials and the Mormons over the death of Joseph Smith. In this issue is published also a letter from Orson Hyde, dated New York, July 10, 1844, written to the members of the Mormon church in England announcing the death of Joseph Smith. The issue also contains an extract from the Liverpool Albion of August 5, 1844, which says: With regard to the Mormons, a correspondent of the New York Express, writing from Nauvoo, June 30, says, "The Mormons, greatly to their credit, submit to the loss of their leaders in silence. Not the slightest disturbance has occurred. The prophet and his brother were buried yesterday without parade and in secrecy." The London Record of August 3, 1844, carried an article on the "Death of the Mormon Prophet," by Henry Caswell, curate of Figheldean. To summarize the news coverage of this important event in Mormon history given by the press of the United States and Great Britain: we have the news "breaking" in Carthage, Illinois, June 27, 1844 at 5:16 Pm. It reached Nauvoo, Illinois, twenty-two miles away, that night by horseback. The news reached Fort Madison, Iowa, nine miles above Nauvoo on the Mississippi River early the next morning, but 91 was "not confirmed" until a direct messenger, who left Nauvoo at nine A. M., reached Fort Madison at three p. M. The editor probably set it in type that night and it came off the press in Fort Madison the next day, June 20th. St. Louis, Missouri, 190 miles down the Mississippi River, published the account two days later, on July 1st. SPRINGFIELD, Illinois, doubted the rumor one week after Joseph Smith's death. It took a two-horse carriage five days to make the trip from Nauvoo to Springfield in 1840 when Joseph Smith went there to stand trial. The news was known in New York City at least by July 10th, or just thirteen days after it happened at Carthage, Illinois. By August 3d, thirty-seven days after its occurrence, the London Record (England) had published its account, followed two days later by the Liverpool Albion. In the meantime, the editors in western United States had exchanged papers and as early as July 24, 1844, the Warsaw Signal was engaged in bitter debate with its exchange editors over the whole problem of Joseph Smith's death and its repercussions among Mormons and non-Mormons. Joseph Smith, in the eyes of the press of one hundred years ago, was both an enigma and a great man. Today, April 28, 1945, as I write the concluding sentence of this article, I sit by my radio and wait anxiously to see if the rumors which have flooded the air for the past three hours will really materialize in the surrender of Germany—nearly half way around the world, and if I will know it within a matter of minutes or hours. Even though the passing of a century has brought the transmission of news to a matter of the speed of light rather than the speed of a horse or canal boat, Joseph Smith still remains at once an enigma and one of the world's great men. In the words of Moroni, another American prophet, his name "'should be had for good and evil among all nations, kindreds, and tongues, or that it should be both good and evil spoken of among all people." Note: TO MARIE (Who lives in the "Flexible House" Madeline Haws The light in the Flexible House burns dim Where the windows were all aglow; The big armchair stands desolate Across from the radio. His chair at the table, long or short, Where many eat or few, Is undisturbed. He is not there To be the host to you. Loneliness—yes—in the Flexible House Though it stretch with all its might! For he isn't there, and everyone knows That he won't be back tonight. But the Flexible House can never be Empty or dark or cold, So long as half of its heart remains, There'll be warmth and love untold! The poem "The Flexible House" by Adeline J. Haws, written in honor of Brother and Sister Leonard Tanner of Salt Lake City, appeared in the Magazine for January 1945. Since that time Brother Tanner has passed away. Sister Marie Tanner, however, still opens wide the door and the "Flexible House" still offers its familiar hospitality. 92 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 What the Children Can Do for 1947 Dr. M. Lynn Bennion Superintendent, Salt Lake City Schools Prepared at the Request of the Church Beautification Committee. SCHOOL children of Salt Lake S City will make an intensive study of their home community in preparation for 1947. A workshop was held at the University of Utah, July 30 to August 4, 1945, to prepare material to use in this study. It is planned to have the students themselves write on various aspects of Utah history during the current school year. These materials will be evaluated and organized in a 1946 summer workshop. During the school year of 1946-1947, a significant book on Utah history will be edited ES —Salt Lake Tribune Photograph and published. This publication will be a valuable contribution to our literature on the pioneers and will greatly enhance the understanding and appreciation of our children for their great heritage. A brief, suggested outline for this study has been provided by supervisors and teachers as follows: A Brief History of the Community 1. When and how was the community settled, and why was it settled? 2. Who were the prominent people PIONEER PLOWING IN AN ARID VALLEY Page 93 94  —Photograph by T. J. Howells, M. D. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—FEBRUARY 1946 WHERE THE DESERT HAS BLOSSOMED connected with the early history of the community? _ What made these people prominent? Has there been a change in the way people live—industries, farming, and so on? Did any other important historical events occur in addition to those earliest ones listed? Was your region occupied by Indians before the arrival of white men? If so, by what. Tribe? Did they have a village in this region? What was it named? What are the names of the chiefs of whom you have read or heard? Did you ever see a member of this tribe? Are there any remaining evidences of Indian occupation such as: old trails, implements, mounds, graves, planting fields, shell heaps, markings on rocks, and the like? Who was the first white man to reach your community? Why did he come? What was he doing? How and along what route did he come? Can you find stories about the early people who came to this community? What is the story of the first permanent settlement? What was the life of these pioneers, their occupations, methods of making a living, grinding grains, marketing crops, defending themselves from the Indians, hardships, and amusements? 8. What can you find out about the founding of schools, churches, and other social, political, commercial, and industrial institutions of this early community? Are there any of these pioneer people alive today? G. If your community is in a region that at some time in its history has been held by some other country, how and why did it become a colony of that nation? How and why did it fall into American hands? 10. Has your community ever suffered great disasters, by storm, flood, earthquake, or fire? 11. Has your community any historic sites, famous buildings, monuments, parks, drives, or other attractions for visitors? The outline also suggests a thorough study of the community today, covering the following points: MY OLD GREEN CHEST Grace M. Candland Today I emptied out An old green chest of mine, And came across, to my surprise, A soiled and faded valentine. I read the loving words thereon With somewhat of a start, For there in his handwriting "T love you, dear, with all my heart." I wonder as I look at him If that was just a pretty caper, It seems his keenest interest Is in the evening paper. WHAT THE CHILDREN CAN DO FOR 1947 Topography and natural resources Population Health and safety Home and family life Recreation B95) Government Organized group life Occupations Transportation and communication facilities. Page 96 GRANDMA Elsie C. Carroll "Grandma! I would not let him use that name, If I were you," she said. "It makes me think of wrinkled cheeks, Of nodding gray old head. "It makes me think of tottering feet And eyes that time has dimmed; Of wandering mind and quavering voice, And lips that pain has thinned. "It makes me think of gnarled brown hands, And shoulders bent by years;  It makes me think of winter, death; It chills me with vague fears." I smiled and answered her, "I see That life has not been fair. She took too early from you, dear, A gift I hold most rare. "Grandma! That name to me brings memories Of joys beyond mere words. It's sweet like dawn, and spring, And flowers, and brooks, and birds. "Her feet came swiftly to my need. Her cheek was soft as down; Her eyes were pools of love for me; Her hair a silver crown. "Her hands held strength and gentleness; Her kiss could soothe all pain; The refuge of her arms and lap Gave peace I'd like again. "It makes you think of winter, death; And fills you with strange fears. To me, the name of Grandma makes A blessing of the years. "And when J hear him calling it, I'm thrilled with ecstasy. 'O make me, Father,' is my prayer, "The Grandma I should be.' " Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, February 1, and February 15, 1886 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women OF ALL NATIONS"' MIDNIGHT MUSINGS The fire burns low upon the hearth, The household sleeps, no cares intrude; Without hath darkness wrap'd the earth, Within I sit in solitude. But not alone, dear voices come Breathing soft cadence in my ear, Which through the day, all wearisome, With rush of work, I could not hear. —Lula EXPERIENCES: To some the experiences they pass through are like beads upon a string, and when the thread of life is cut, they simply roll away out of sight and out of mind. A new business here, a new friendship there; here a lucky accident, there a disastrous failure; here a birth and a rejoicing, there a death and mourning; and, as the mind recalls them, it finds no special meaning attached to them and no connection between them, except that of time or place. Another person comes out of each one fuller, stronger, wiser than before He is accumulating experience, not simply to count it over and recall its pleasure or its pain, but to develop out of it all power and wisdom by which his own life and the lives of all who approach him may be improved.—Editorial. DAVIS STAKE: The Relief Society quarterly conference of Davis Stake was held at Farmington, January 8, 1886, Sister Mary Clark presiding. Presidents William R. Smith and Anson Call met with us for the purpose of re-organizing, or rather appointing a president, as our former president had been called to labor in another capacity. Sister Susan Grant was chosen****Sister President Kimball and Doctor Ellen B. Ferguson were present. They gave us some very good instructions, and urged the mothers to look well to their children; be careful to implant the principles of truth and virtue in their young minds. We had a splendid meeting, a good spirit prevailed, and all seemed to manifest a lively interest in the cause—Rhoda Hinman, Secretary.  A HAPPY HOME: "Six things," says Hamilton, 'are requisite to create a happy home. Integrity must be the architect, and tenderness the upholsterer. It must be warmed by affection and lighted with cheerfulness, and industry must be the ventilator, renewing the atmosphere, and bringing in fresh salubrity day by day; while over all as a protecting glory and canopy, nothing will suffice except the blessing of God."—Selected. Page 97 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon WE wonder how Japanese women will react to suffrage, demanded for them by General MacArthur. It comes to them with stunning suddenness, whereas American women struggled for it seventy-two years, from 1848 to 1920. Since 1920 our country has sent only thirty-nine women to our national Congress, and the nine present incumbents are all in the Lower House. Yet what means of attaining a better world could be more sure than for determined women, the world over, to use their opportunities to mold public opinion, to vote, and to hold office? THE British Red Cross and other agencies packed 1,672,579 food packages per week for prisoners of war who were natives of India. Ig was largely through the efforts of the women of America that Mount Veron, home of George Washington, was purchased and preserved as a national shrine. LADY SIMON of England says Britain's government has only now accepted as its goal what has been part of the American way of life for neatly one hundred years, equal educational opportunities for all children irrespective of the financial status of their parents. THE international world of art has lost one of its great figures in Page 98 the death of La Argentinita, Spanish dancer born in the Argentine. Graciousness, a supreme dignity, and womanliness characterized her personality both off and on the stage. She was unselfish and often worked hard to help struggling fellow artists. MBS. MARIA KRISTINA PERSSON of Logan, Utah, has reached the age of ninety-nine years and may be the oldest Relief Society teacher in the Church, both in age and in length of service—more than sixty years. For fifty-three years she has been a worker in the Logan temple. FIFTY-SIX women doctors, graduated from Western Reserve medical school, have given their communities a total of six hundred and eleven years of medical service, besides engaging in many useful civic enterprises. Thirty-three of them have been homemakers, but unfortunately only twenty-nine children have been born to this group of such high intelligence. AMONG the 27,000,000 people of Indo-China, the women of the Annamese tribe are noted for their grace and beauty, and for their skill in the fine arts, music and poetry. The Mois are more savage. Some of their tribes are ruled by women. Women dispose of property, buy at markets, and make marriage proposals. Editorial Vol 33 February 1946 

Vol 33 February 1946 NO 2 Study My Word Study my word which hath gone forth among the children of men, and also study my word which shall come forth among the children of men, or that which is now translating, yea, until you have obtained all which I shall grant unto the children of  men in this generation, and then shall all things be added thereto (Doc. and Gov. 11:22) . EVERY Latter-day Saint should study the word of the Lord and copies of the standard works of the Church should be in every home. As a child grows to maturity, he should be given, on appropriate occasions, copies of the standard works to form a nucleus for his own library. When the oldest child in a family reaches the age of understanding, simple stories from the scriptures may be told him, showing an appropriate picture to illustrate the story and help fix it in his mind. Then, as the oldest child grows in years, a convenient time each day may be chosen when the entire family can gather as a group and hear portions of the scriptures read. Different methods may be used in order to ground the children in the doctrine of the Church. One mother tried the plan of reading to her children in a chrono-logical order with the Bible as a basis. For instance, after reading the account of Adam, as given in Genesis, then the fuller account, as told in the Pearl of Great Price, was read and commented upon. Following this, any verses which referred to Ad-am in the Doctrine and Covenants were studied, and then remarks which the Prophet Joseph Smith had made concerning Adam, were add-ed. By following such a procedure, as the reading from the Bible progressed, not only were the truths contained in the scriptures studied, but also the inter-relationship of the standard works was made clear, and the necessity for searching out all the light possible on a given subject was emphasized. Reading the scriptures together as a family draws the members more closely together and opens up vistas of understanding and inspiration which will prove a source of strength to them throughout life. To read of the dealings of God with his children in any dispensation is to bring comfort and enlargement to the soul. When trials come, there enters a calmness in one's thoughts on reading the words of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith during his trials: My son, peace be unto thy soul, thine adversity and thine affliction shall be but a small moment; and then if thou endure it well, God shall exalt thee on high, thou shalt triumph over all thy foes (Doc. and Gov.121:7).Page 99 100 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE? FEBRUARY 1946 What comfort came to those who lost a loved one during this last conflict to read: And it shall come to pass that those that die in me shall not taste of death, for it shall be sweet unto them (Doc. and Cov. 42:46). Whatever the occasion, whether it be one of rejoicing or one of sorrow, the student of the scriptures can find encouragement and solace from reading particular passages which relate experiences of others similar to his own, and the words of the Lord to them under such circumstances. Mothers should realize that the responsibility of teaching their children the doctrines of the Church rests, not upon the Church auxiliaries, but upon the parents (see Doc. and Cov. 69). Early training from hearing the scriptures read and taking part in the reading, will bear fruit throughout the life of the child, and, at the same time, add enrichment and joy to be gained in no other way. Rays of living light will thus early enter the soul of the child and serve to guide his footsteps throughout mortality. M.C.S.  Congratulations to Sister Lyman on ter Birthday?February 7th THE General Board, on behalf of Relief Society members throughout the world, extends birthday greetings to Sister Amy Brown Lyman. Her years of service to the Church and her devoted efforts for the advancement and welfare of women everywhere are recalled with appreciation and pleasure. We take this opportunity to express our gratitude for Sister Lyman's years of service to the Relief Society, an organization which she understands thoroughly and loves greatly. We wish Sister Lyman many pleasant returns of the day and may she be blessed with health and happiness in the Sister Lyman's kindness, sympathy, and encouragement are especially remembered at this time. She has helped many women to realize that the teachings of the Church, if followed, will be a source of help and direction in solving the complex problems of a world facing the challenge of organizing for brotherhood and peace. Best wishes to you, Sister Lyman, and may our love and appreciation be a source of happiness to you. 100 coming years. FIFTY AND ONE IDEAS FOR YOU AND FOR YOUR HOME IT is true that the people in a home make the home, but there are other things needed, too. We must work to make and keep our homes more attractive, gayer, and happier. How can this be accomplished? By keeping them simple. Simplicity is beauty, simplicity is charm. If your home looks cluttered up, do you know why? It may be that there are too many things in it for which there is no need. New furniture, new materials, and many other things people have been waiting for will soon be in the stores. But before one starts to buy, one should take an inventory of what one has and then plan what is needed. In buying furniture, it is better to look for quality; a little good furniture is far better than much that is indifferent. A living room should be arranged so that the family and friends can talk easily together. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?FEBRUARY 1946; ?Salt Lake Tribune Photograph A WINDOW WITH GLASS SHELVES FOR FIGURINES, PLANTS AND VASES. Choose the most important piece of furniture in the room and then arrange the other pieces to be a part of this group. If the central piece is a couch with a table at each end, then place two chairs facing each other to form a group arrangement. If all the larger pieces of furniture seem to be too near the wall, try. Taking a long table or a desk and placing one end to the wall. Set a bench or a chair at the other end of the table or desk and a chair on each side. This makes a good conversation group. If possible, it is a very good idea to have the center of interest in front of a window or between two windows. The daylight brings out the beauty of the grouping, and at night the lamps make an inviting picture from the outside. A room will have better balance if everything in it is not the same height. This can be accomplished by using lamps, pictures or mirrors, anything that attracts the eye in an upward direction. Another decorative touch is the use of bell cords, or imitation ones, which may be hung from the ceiling on each side of an upright piano or any other wide piece of furniture. 'These may be made of needle-point or crewelwork. If there is a window in a room that is difficult to handle, put glass shelves across it, or make a scalloped wooden frame around it to give the 102 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?FEBRUARY 1946 FIFTY AND ONE IDEAS appearance of a cupboard. Use these shelves for your beautiful old and authentic treasures?porcelain, old American glass, old copper, and Victorian colored glass, Every family Owns some of these charming objects which may have been hidden away in attics or trunks. Perhaps there are some beautiful plates in the collection. Hang them on the wall in tiers on each side of the mantel. MALL rooms need special attention. Furniture should be on the same scale. Brilliant tones and sharp contrasts give a sense of restlessness. Soft neutral tones, such as yellow, browns, cinnamon, and ?Salt Lake Tribune Photograph 103 beige, enlarge a room. It is wise to have walls painted or papered in much the same scheme in all adjoining rooms so that they seem to be an extension of each other. Mirrors Placed flat against the wall give width, but be sure they are placed so that they reflect something beautiful. As a rule, people would rather not sit and face a mirror. Sir Joshua Reynolds, the painter, says: "A room hung with pictures is a room hung with thoughts." Painters have re-created life; out of the emotional intensity of their own perceptions they have done this that others, too, might share their ecstasy. Good pictures and good books in a home make a mansion. Public libraries have copies of the great masterpieces where you may go and see what you would like. A FIREPLACE GROUPING THAT ILLUSTRATES COMFORT AND CHARM ?Salt Lake Tribune Photograph A GIRL'S BEDROOM, SHOWING EFFECTIVE USE OF RUFFLED SKIRTS ON DRESSING TABLE AND STOOL. The art stores have catalogues from which you may make a selection. Through these pictures, you can add color and atmosphere and give the family an appreciation of art. What could provide a more delightful touch to the decorative scheme in a girl's bedroom than the two pictures: "The Blue Boy" by Gainsborough and "Pinkie" by Lawrence. Color is that quality which develops temperament in a room, which separates a particular room from all others. Color can give you peace and quiet. Study the color charts that portray different shades of each hue. Color produces an effect of warmth or coolness. Red is the warmest and most stimulating color. If used to excess, it becomes irritating. Dark red, used with cream or ivory, is a pleasing combination. Light pink is warm, but it makes a very good background in any room. Yellow reflects more light than any other color; it is warm and cheerful. Use yellow in a north room; combine it with purple or blue Or green or gray. Blue is cool and restful. Light blue or blue-gray walls make a small room look larger. Use blue with ivory or cream, light shades of brown, gray, and green. Green is restful. 104 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?FEBRUARY 1946 FIFTY AND ONE IDEAS Dark green is best for carpets, light- ?r gray-green may be used for walls as it is a good background for more vivid colors. Color Schemes 1. Walls cream, carpets green, green curtains, a dash of red. Z. Walls gold, curtains apricot, chairs covered with plum and pink. 3. Walls Chinese yellow, carpet brown, red in the cushions. 4. Walls sage green, draperies red, couch red, oriental carpet with red predominating. 5. For a study: walls light cream, furniture Oregon pine, scarlet pillows and vase. 6. Music room: tones of beige, brown, and dull gold. Practical Decorative Touches Have you a piece of heirloom needlepoint that is getting worn? Mount it on a small table with a metal railing around the edge. Then place a glass over the top to protect the needle-point. Pieces of genuine tapestry may be used for the top of a piano bench. Add fringe or braid around the edge. Make a table lamp out of an old copper hanging lamp. Any metal art shop will help you design it. If you have an old clock cabinet that is large, remove the clock and have shelves 105 put in. Then paint it in a color suitable to the room. The old clock will make a charming cabinet for a girl to keep her treasures in. Sturdy old kitchen chairs make attractive slipper chairs. Pad the back and seat with some soft material. Make a taffeta slip cover with a gathered or pleated skirt. Then make a cushion with a ruffle around the edge and you will have something that girls will like. Make bedspreads out of the baby quilts. Use plain material to match the background of the quilt for the ruffle around the sides, top, and bottom. If you have a maple bedroom suite, make your own curtains out of unbleached muslin, then decorate them with tufting like your candlewick bedspreads. You can use the same design. A special type of needle and thread will be needed. Paint an old iron bed to match the color of the walls in the bedroom. Cover an old round table with a round piece of material that reaches to the floor all around. Sew fringe or braid on the edge. Use this table in a bedroom. Always keep something green growing on the mantel, on glass shelves, on book shelves, or in hanging baskets or pots in the window. This green may be English ivy, yams, chives, parsley, or any hot-house greenery. You may accomplish wonders around a home if you have a lot of imagination, plus artistic ability. The results will afford pleasant surprises. BS Ring Out the Old Estelle Webb Thomas THINKING things over on the T front steps that afternoon, Cora decided she had better hide Miss Johnson until Aunt Coralee's visit was over. But even as she mused, a car stopped in the street, the gate clicked and Aunt Coralee came up the walk. Cora experienced her usual sensations at sight of her. First, amazed admiration at so much beauty, then an unconscious bracing of herself for the familiar, "Ha, Speckles!" which was her aunt's inevitable greeting. Today, however, Aunt Coralee seemed different. She said soberly, "Hello, Cora!" but her quick eye took in Miss Johnson, whom Cora had hastily thrust behind her and she added, "Still playing with that disreputable old camel? We've simply got to get rid of that thing!" Disreputable was a new word, but Cora supposed it meant the same thing as hideous and disgraceful. She wondered, irritably, why Aunt Coralee had come again so soon. They had hardly got settled into their old comfortable routine since her last visit. And she wondered what there was about this visit that made Granny's eyes red when she read the letter. She could say she had been peeling onions if she wanted to, but Cora felt it an insult to her going-on-seven intelligence that she was supposed to be fooled so easily. Well, she would probably find out sometime. They had no idea how many things she found out that she was supposed not to know. Granny's habit of talking aloud to Page 106 herself in moments of excitement and the fact that Granddad had to be yelled at, both contributed to the sum total of her knowledge. And when people mentioned Little Pitchers in a significant tone she had learned to prick up her ears. It all helped to make life more interesting for a rather solitary little girl. She gathered Miss Johnson in her arms and gave her a fiercely protective kiss on her long cotton-flannel nose. Then she noticed that the young man coming up the walk with Aunt Coralee's two large suitcases was not Uncle Guy and also that he had a very unpleasant-looking little dog tucked under his arm. He smiled engagingly at Cora, but she was busy glaring at the dog, who glared as steadily back. It was a case of dislike at first sight and Cora mentally bestowed on him all the epithets with which Aunt Coralee used to designate Miss Johnson. She waited until Aunt Coralee had admitted the strange young man and then slipped silently around the corner to the little summerhouse at the end of the grape arbor. This spot, delightful in summer, was rather forlorn in the pale winter light, with dead leaves rustling on its walls and drifted onto its floor, but it fitted Cora's mood and provided a refuge for Miss Johnson during her period of unpopularity. She knew why Aunt Coralee disliked Miss Johnson, Cora thought morosely, huddled on a bench with that unlovely lady in her arms. It was because of Gloria. Gloria had been RING OUT THE OLD Aunt Coralee's gift last Christmas and a more gorgeous doll it would be hard to imagine. Aunt Coralee had said maybe Cora would be willing to throw away that frightful old camel. But, while worshipping her beauty, Cora had never been able to feel very familiar with Gloria. The doll's exquisite perfection made her conscious of her often mentioned freckles and straight dark hair and the plain little dresses which Granny made and which were somehow subtly different from the other little girls' clothes. So, though she played with Gloria dutifully when little friends came and glowed at their squeals of admiration, she placed her carefully in her box and turned with relief to Miss Johnson for companionship when they were gone. WHEN, almost three years before, a sad-faced camel had been among her Christmas gifts she had seized it with cries of joy, completely ignoring all the other toys, and shouting that it looked exactly like Miss Johnson, a well-loved and now departed kindergarten teacher. Miss Johnson it had been from that time forth. In vain Aunt Coralee coaxed and ridiculed and presented beautiful rivals, but Miss Johnson continued to hold first place in Cora's perverse little heart. A Though in some subtle way this visit of Aunt Coralee's was different, she was even worse than usual about changing things. For Aunt Coralee was never happy unless she was changing something. Granddad said it was a disease. He said that after she had moved his easy chair from the chimney where it had sat for fifteen years, to where he could get a better light from the window for his 107 reading, that he had come into the shadowy room and sat down plunk on the floor. He said tommy-rot, too. 'Tommy-rot was a good round word and Cora liked it, especially when Granddad said it, looking like a ruffled Santa Claus with his round, shining, red cheeks, his snapping blue eyes and his fringe of white hair standing irritably on end. He said tommy-rot several times when Aunt Coralee changed Granny's sewing table to a less conspicuous position beneath the book shelves, and Granny, blindly hunting her glasses, fell over it and almost broke her leg. Coralee took down the chaste muslin curtains from Granny's bedroom windows and put up pink taffeta, thereby causing Granny to feel slightly wicked and to steal out surreptitiously to see if they showed very plainly from the street. But all the changes and upheavals she could institute in her mother's home failed to use up Aunt Coralee's restless energy. It was not long before she was up to her ears in preparation for the program to be given in the church on Christmas Eve. Only a few years had passed since Coralee had been the prettiest and most popular girl in the village and the committee was flattered that, as the beautiful Mrs. Carter, she was still willing to help. Between times she worked at a costume for Cora to wear in the Christmas pageant. She was to be one of a group of angels and sing, "Ring Out the Old, Ring in the New," at the end of the program. "I wish I'd insisted on them making her one of the carol singers." Coralee complained to Mr. Dick, the young man with whom she had 108 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?FEBRUARY 1946 arrived and who had "happened by and dropped in," several times. "I don't believe there are any freckle-nosed, straight-haired angels. What do you think, Speckles?" Mr. Dick laughed, and Cora squirmed. She wished Aunt Coralee wasn't always calling attention to her looks, some people might not notice. '"Where's Shep, Aunt Coralee?" she asked, hastily, to change the subject. "He was too large for a city apartment," Aunt Coralee answered, carelessly, holding the costume at arm's length to inspect it, "I got rid of him and got dear little Jiggs, instead." "Got rid of him! The big, friendly collie Uncle Guy loved so!" Cora eyed dear little Jiggs with secret dislike. He returned her regard from bilious, protuberant eyes. Cora heartily resented the fact that this sleek, overfed little autocrat was always underfoot, while poor, faithful Miss Johnson lurked in the dismantled summerhouse, with only stolen visits from her mistress to cheer her exile. GRANDDAD, it seemed, also cherished a secret dislike for Jiggs, but that night, having tripped over him and wrenched his rheumatic knee and been bitten sharply in the calf by the ill-natured and affronted dog, it was a secret no longer. And Cora, awake in her little bed. With the door open a crack so she could see the light, learned the meaning of Uncle Guy's mysterious absence, of Aunt Coralee's unseasonable visit and why Granny's eves were red.. "House is no place for a dog!" roared Granddad, limping to his chair, which he had dragged indignantly back to its original corner with the muttered remark that if he wanted to ruin his eyes he guessed he was old enough to be allowed the privilege. "But he's a house dog, Father," said Aunt Coralee, aprops of his comment on her pet, in the sweetly patient tone one uses to a dull-witted child. "A house dog is he?" repeated Granddad, very much ruffled and rubbing his injured knee. "I s'pose this Dick fellow is, too, isn't he? Seems to be underfoot a good deal of the time. What's he mean, hanging around a married woman, and what does Guy mean, letting him? Eh?" "Now, Father," Coralee's tone was still carefully patient, "You know, I wrote you and Mother before I came all about everything. I told you I'd decided to leave Guy." Cora, propped on her elbow listening, gasped. Did she mean leave dear Uncle Guy and never go back? Did it mean he would not even come for Christmas? And, awful thought, did it mean she could never have Miss Johnson in the house any more? "Why?" Granddad was demanding, flatly. "Now, Henry,' Granny cuss but Aunt Coralee cut in clearly, "He makes me unhappy, Father. He doesn't understand me." "Tommy-rot!"" Granddad could make tommy-rot sound threatening, Cora thought admiringly. "What is there to understand? I guess he understands you well enough. I guess he understands if he has hard luck and can't furnish you all the doodads you crave you'll RING OUT THE OLD come running back to Dad and Mother and they'll be fools enough to take you in and keep right on spoiling you!" Cora shivered ecstatically. My, Granddad was brave! He was talking right back to Aunt Coralee and using all those terrible words. "Now, Henry," Granny said with spirit, "Coralee knows she's always welcome in her own home and if she's spoiled, why I guess you?" "Sure, she's welcome and she knows it!" admitted Granddad, grudgingly, limping off to bed, "but when it comes to house dogs?human or canine?that's different!" HE weeks dragged by with their usual pre-Christmas deliberation, and now but one remained before the eventful day. Every day Cora and Aunt Coralee repaired to the church and with the other youthful villagers, went through the pageant which was becoming wearily familiar. More or less tunefully, Cora helped shout, "Ring Out the Old," and tried hopelessly to look as angelic as she felt was necessary. Between rehearsals, Aunt Coralee was going over the house from cellar to attic, though Granny always cleaned it in the fall within an inch of its life. Granny was already preparing rich and fragrant fruit cake. Cora, coming suddenly into the kitchen, heard her saying to herself. Vigorously beating batter in time to her words, "I don't like it a bit, not a bit, and I?ll tell her so, too! Why, the very idea, inviting that Mr. Dick to Christmas dinner and _ poor Guy?" She jumped guiltily when she heard Cora's step and looked relieved when she saw who it was. Cora, fortified with an apple and 109 a cookie, wandered out into the back yard. Aunt Coralee, in a baggy old sweater of Granddad's was burning trash in the still snowless garden. Jiggs, usually so moribund, was romping about, worrying something quite playfully. "Look, Speckles," called Aunt Coralee gayly, as she drew near, "See what Jiggs has! That horrid old camel you used to play with! I found it in the summerhouse. I'm glad you finally threw it away, Honey, Christmas is coming and you'll have a lot of clean, lovely new toys!" Cora, speechless with horror, now suddenly came to life and made a wild dive for the playful Jiggs. "No, no, Cora! Let him have it, please do!" cried Aunt Coralee, "I'll give you Jiggs, himself, when I go away, if you will!" Cora, choking with anger, threw herself bodily on Jiggs and rescued Miss Johnson. Emitting a wild yelp of anguish, Jiggs fled, but his vicious little teeth had torn a final three-cornered wound in Miss Johnson's side, through which her cotton innards protruded. "T don't want that f-frightful old dog!" sobbed Cora, clutching poor Miss Johnson close. "I-I wouldn't ha?have him for a million dollars, no, not even a_ thousand! Ch-changed sweet old Shep for that ?that?hideous thing!" She had heard an awful word at school and saved it to use on Jiggs sometime, but in her excitement could not remember it, but some mental dam seemed to have broken and she rushed on, quite as much to her own surprise and horror as to Aunt Coralee's, 'Always ch-changing something! Granddad says its a disease you got! Al-ways trying to change my darling Miss Johnson for some 1?lovely toy! I'm not going to sing your old song so there! I'm not going to ring out the old things?I like my old things! And now?" A fresh burst of sobs shook the slender little body and almost cut off the violent rush of words, "Now you're going to get rid of my dear good uncle Guy and change to that?that disrepabul old Dick!" BLINDLY she turned and started to stumble away, but as another awful possibility struck her, she turned back and, leveling a shaking finger at her aunt shouted, "And if you ever dare to try and change Granddad and Granny for somebody you?you think is nicer, you?you just watch out?I?I'll get the law on you!" Aunt Coralee, silently and with a strangely stricken face, watched the sobbing little figure until the house had swallowed it. Then, absently, she raked the embers together and in the same stricken silence, walked slowly through the back garden gate and down the river path, a favorite walk of her girlhood?in whose leafy lane she and Guy had spent many a magic hour. But today she did not enjoy it, although it was lovely even in winter and the pleasant tang in the air brought the bright color into her cheeks. She had been accustomed to think of her visits to the old home as gleams of sunshine in the drab existence of her parents and little niece. It was disturbing to learn that they were something to be lived through with what patience they could muster. When she turned homeward in the early winter dusk her meditations had resulted in the decision to wait until after the holidays before precipitating a personal crisis. She would telephone Guy to come as usual and Dick that his invitation was off. Smiling at the pleasant picture of herself thus moving her human pawns about at will, she ran briskly up the walk. "Where's Cora?" demanded Granny peering down the dim path behind her, "Didn't she go with you?" It was a long way to Centerville, it seemed, much longer than Cora had imagined. But she had no intention of letting Uncle Guy spend Christinas all alone, without even Shep for company. However, she had stopped hiding when she heard a car and wished with all her terrified little heart that one of the neighbors would happen along. Perhaps she could persuade them to take her on to Uncle Guy instead of back home, which meant only Aunt Coralee and the hateful Jiggs to her now. As the cold dusk began closing in around her, she even began praying in little gasping sobbing breaths that God would send someone, even?even Mr. Dick she pleaded desperately. Before it got any colder and darker. So she was not at all surprised when presently a large automobile stopped suddenly beside her and an amazed voice said, "Why, it's?yes it's Speckles!"' But if she was not surprised, Mr. Dick certainly was, and as soon as she had climbed, quite willingly, into the seat beside him, he demanded an explanation. "You better be going on toward Centerville while I tell it, cause I'm not going back home," said Cora, as firmly as Aunt Coralee herself might have done. But she started crying again when he insisted she must be taken back at once and so, through sobs and tears and puzzled questions from Mr. Dick the whole story finally came out. ''And so I just had to get Miss Johnson away from there, 'cause her life wasn't even safe/^ she finished, hugging that battered camel closer as she spoke, "but what made me maddest of all is Aunt Coralee wanting to trade off good old Uncle Guy for a (miraculously the bad word she had heard at school came back) for a lousy? she glanced up into Mr. Dick's startled face? "for you, just 'cause she's always changing some-thing! But maybe he's too big for a city apartment," she muttered, placatingly, as her head drooped drowsily against his shoulder. time." "Honey," said Aunt Coralee next evening, when Cora was trimming the Christmas tree entirely according
to h er own ideas of the artistic, without a single criticism or suggestion, "Maybe it was a disease. If it was, I think you've cured me. Anyway, I've decided not to ring out the
old, after all. You'll be glad to hear that I am not planning to change Uncle Guy for anyone at present." Here she and Uncle Guy exchanged a look that made Cora think of all the lovely stories of knights and ladies she had ever heard. And Aunt Coralee was certainly beautiful when she smiled like that and said, "I'll mend and clean Miss Johnson till she won't know herself and we'll give her the place of honor, right next to the angel, on the Christmas tree!" 110 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?FEBRUARY 1946 RING OUT THE OLD TWILIGHT Ada N. Jones Twilight ? faint blush of pink on blue mountain. The sun's golden fingers withdrawn from the sky; A deep settled hush on the murmuring fountain- A silence, a promise, a prayer, and a sigh.  CRUCIBLE (Benedict Amold and Nathan Hale) Beatrice K. Ekman Two there were of illustrious name, Two were baptized in the fire and flame Of freedom's cause. Where lay the blame? One crowned in honor, one smirched with shame. The scroll is written and rolled away. One loving his country with valor strong Bore the burden and brunt of the battle long; Where the struggle for freedom marches on His deeds live ever in word and song. The scroll is written and rolled away. One, under the smart of his wounded pride, Let mounting resentment become his guide, Until honor and duty were laid aside And the role of a traitor seemed justified. The scroll is written and rolled away. Only God can know when the sands are run How the crucible testing of these was done, What tempered the steel in the soul of one And what tarnished the soul of the man undone. The scroll is written and rolled away. Page 112 And For Eternity Olive Woolley Burt CHAPTER IX Synopsis Delsa Marriott, who has been jilted by Hugh Temple, has been trying to find a way to hide the truth from her friends. At first she showed an interest in Jeff Holden, widower Principal of the school, but the people of the town condemned her for being unfaithful to Hugh. Then she tried to fall in love with Alec Windsor, a visiting marine, but when Alec wants to marry her, Delsa is afraid because Alec thinks of marriage as a temporal contract, while to her it is binding for time and for eternity. Appalled at her failure, she decides to tell her friends the truth and re. Sign herself to the thought of a loveless life. URING the days that followed, Delsa constantly gave thanks for her job?for the children grown restless under the spring sunshine and demanding all her energy during the school hours; for the morning and afternoon chores at Jeff's house; for the spring tasks that absorbed her mother and her aunt Martha and the neighbors. She had at last found courage to tell Hugh's mother of Hugh's letter; had even let her read it. She had found, then, that she needn't have worried about the woman's reaction. In fact, Delsa had felt rather hurt when Hugh's mother had said, after her first uncomprehending exclamations, "Well, I'm glad that it's Hugh that has changed, Delsa. I had almost begun to think that you were going to throw him over for, say, Jeff Holden. I couldn't have borne that, Delsa?having Hugh thrown over while he was out fighting." Delsa thought bitterly, no, but she can stand this. She loves me, too, but she loves Hugh more. Hugh's her son and I'm just the girl he had planned to marry, And she found it not too difficult to tell the girls, They, too, were astounded at first, but they accepted that fact as they accepted so many others, so many facts that meant infinitely more to them, with an exclamation, a shrug, and then forgetfulness in the busy world they had all entered. When Delsa said doubtfully, "I suppose now I am ineligible for the War Widows Club," they laughed and winked at her. "You'll Probably be eligible again when Alec goes," they said, "so you might as well keep right in!" So that's settled, Delsa thought, and wondered just how much her happiness meant to anyone but herself and her immediate family. Then she shook her head at her bitterness, realizing that there were so many harassing events, so much personal worry and work in the world that each one had all he could do to keep going with his own troubles and had little emotional energy left for other people. Alec was a godsend, Delsa admitted. True to his promise, he refrained from "rushing" her, but he was constantly on hand to take her Page 113 to the picture show, to walk home with her from school, to go riding with her after school or on Saturdays. This helped immeasurably, for instead of pitying her because she had lost Hugh, the other girls envied her because she had a good-looking escort in days when escorts were more highly prized than ever before. Even Jeff wasn't too difficult. He'd come into her schoolroom after the children were dismissed on_ that Monday following her announcement, and had stood looking down at Delsa, his eyes remote, but his smile friendly. "I want to apologize, Delsa," he said quietly. "I acted like a fool yesterday. It is none of my business, of course, what you do. I guess I just let my own feelings get the better of me." "I was hurt that you would imply that I had so lightly tossed away Hugh," Delsa answered him, just as seriously, just as honestly. "You'll forgive me, Delsa?" his voice was urgent. DELSA nodded, and went on in "~ spite of herself, "And I'll tell you this, Jeff. Hugh had asked me to release him from his promise long before I ever saw Alec Windsor." Jeff held up his hand as if to stop her. "It's none of my business, Delsa. That's the main thing for me to remember," he couldn't keep the bitterness out of his voice. "If that's the main thing, Jeff, there is no need for us to discuss it. I had a notion that my happiness?" "Oh, Delsa, Delsa, let's not quarrel. We are adult enough, I hope, to refrain from hurting each other just for the fun of it." Delsa looked at him. If that was the way he wanted it, it was all right with her. She was hurt, though, because she had always thought of Jeff as a tower of strength, one to whom she could speak freely. But if he wanted to hide behind this hurt front and let her work out her problem alone, there was nothing she could do about it. She said, "All right, Jeff. Everything is back to normal." She went to the board and began erasing the lesson written there, and Jeff turned silently and left the room. When school was out, Delsa hadn't known whether to go over to Jeff's to take care of the children or not. She hesitated just a moment, and then, seeing Jeff busy with his older boys cleaning up the school yard, she thought, why make the babies suffer for our troubles? I'll just dash over and see what Mrs. Reeder is doing, give the children the once over, and be away before ever Jeff gets home. When she went into the house she was glad of her decision. Davy had upset a saucepan of boiling water, and while only a little of it had splashed over him, the scalded spots were dreadfully painful. He was sobbing distractedly, his face buried in the pillow. Mrs. Reeder had put some soda and water on the spots and wrapped a cloth over them, but it was clumsily done. Delsa gathered the little boy close, kissing his tousled head. "There, there, Davy, don't cry. Aunt Delsa will fix it up. Aunt Delsa knows where Daddy has some 114 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?FEBRUARY 1946 AND FOR ETERNITY magic salve?it'll stop the hurt in no time. Come and see." She carried him into the bathroom, opened the medicine chest and let him look in it with her. She held up the bottles and tubes, attracting his attention until she found the tube of tannic acid jelly. It was a bright green tube, and she held it up crying, "See, Davy, here it is. This is what Daddy uses." Davy looked at her, only slightly curious, but his sobs had ceased. She took some sterilized gauze and said, "Do you want to squeeze the salve out, Davy? It is kind of hard for Aunt Delsa. You have to be real strong to make it come out." Davy accepted the challenge and squeezed the end of the tube. When the salve came squirting out onto the gauze he smiled. Delsa made a neat, expert bandage on the chubby little hand, and Davy watched her, half forgetting his pain in the excitement of being done up so prettily. "Now let's go show Trudy our bandage, just like a big soldier's," Delsa said, and led Davy in to show his sister. Mrs. Reeder said crossly, "He ought to be spanked, that's what! He's always into something. I told him to get away from the stove?" Delsa understood that the woman was trying to salve her own conscience for her negligence, and she answered coldly, "He's been punished for his misdeed, but what punishment should be given to the one who was in charge of him?" "Don't you threaten me, Miss Delsa!" the woman cried angrily. "I don't have to work here! I don't have to stay here day after day, chasing that kid from morning till night 115 for a measly few dollars a week. I can get a war job, I can, and make big money and take no one's sass!" Delsa was frightened. What if Mrs. Reeder did take a notion to leave? What would Jeff do then? She went over to the woman, smiling placatingly in spite of her anger. "Now, now," she said quietly, "we're all upset. It hurts us almost as much as it does the child to see him suffer. Sit down, Mrs. Reeder, and let me make you some toast and cocoa. The children are trying, I know." So now, Delsa thought, as she waited on the woman, I have Mrs. Reeder to take care of, as well as the babies. Oh, why did I ever get tangled up in this anyway? But after that night, even though Jeff seldom spoke to her and never let down the bars of reserve he had put up, Delsa went to his house faithfully every night, and took care of the babies. JEFF acknowledged her kindness? he made it a point to thank her and to tell her how much it meant to the children. But aside from that and from the routine business of the school, they exchanged few words. Jeff was never in the house while Delsa was there, and that made it easier for her. If Jeff watched her coming and going?if he noted how rapidly she finished her self-appointed chores, he probably laid it to her haste to get through and to meet Alec Windsor, who was usually waiting to walk home with her. There was a funny old gnarled tree. About a block from Jeff's gate. Alec would sit there on the rough seat made by the roots that had pushed up from the ground, and wait for Delsa. When she came even with him he would leap up, take her arm, and walk along beside her, talking nonsense, making her laugh, making her forget the worries of the day. 'And if she was particularly lonely or depressed or weary he would be especially gentle with her, sensing her mood, matching his own temperament to hers. It was a sweet knack, Delsa thought gratefully, Hugh had had it, too. She caught herself remembering Hugh when she was with Alec, and in spite of the pleasure of being with him there was an ache where happiness had once glowed. One evening Alec said, "Delsa, darling, ten whole days of my leave have gone. Can you realize it? Ten whole days! There aren't many left." He stopped, waiting for Delsa to acknowledge the unspoken plea behind his words. She walked along silently, her eyes on the dusky roadway ahead. "I?ve done everything I could to make you love me," he went on wistfully, so much like a small, earnest boy that Delsa smiled in spite of herself. "And all you do is laugh!" he added disconsolately. "Alec, Alec! I don't laugh at you. I am too fond of you for that." "Fond!" he spit the word out. "Is that all? Fond!" Again the smile curved Delsa's lips. She couldn't make herself believe that Alec was in deadly earnest. She knew he had had letters from Helen, his faraway betrothed, and she couldn't picture him as one who could actually throw himself into a permanent alliance with one girl while still promised to another. He was too much like Hugh. He would write and ask for a release first. Had he done so? She said seriously, "Nellie Gibson tells me you write to a WAC, and that you get letters from one. You are not really in earnest with me, Alec. You don't love mean you love her, do you?" He was not angry, but he tried to sound so. "Doesn't that postmaster know it's illegal to read a person's mail?" he asked. "He has to read the address?or at least that's permitted, isn't it? And if he mentions it at dinner, say, why then Nellie knows it, and she feels obliged to let her teacher know how much she knows." Alec kicked at the dust of the sidewalk, like a small boy meditating. Then he said, "Look here, Delsa, you?re in a sort of jam, I know. I'm no more deaf than Nellie Gibson is, and I hear what's going on. I do love you, too," he added on a deeper note. "And I may never see Helen again." There was such a wistfulness in his words that Delsa laid her hand on his sleeve. "Listen, Alec," she said softly. "I know you love me?and I love you, too, really. But neither of us loves as we should love to stand up before God and the world and promise fidelity to each other through time?" "And eternity," Alec breathed softly. After a moment he went on, "Maybe you're right, Delsa. I don't know. I only know that when I look at you, when I hear your voice, I want to take you in my arms and 116 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?FEBRUARY 1946 AND FOR ETERNITY hold you close. And when I can't look at you, when I can't hear your voice, I ache with longing for you." HER hand was still on his arm, and she stopped and turned toward him, lifting her face toward his. The early moon shone down through the branches of the trees where small buds were swelling with the urgency of life, and the Sweetness of springtime came to them from the hills and the fields. "I know, I know," she whispered. "Oh, believe me, Alec, I understand what you feel, I feel it, too?" is arms went about her and drew her toward him, but she did not yield in his embrace. She said, "It must be more than that longing, Alec. It must be more than that ache. That may be just loneliness, just the desire 'for love. If you really loved me there wouldn't be any Helen?anywhere at all?" "There won't be, if you'll marry me, Delsa. There won't be, ] Promise you." remembrance was enough to make him cling desperately to any semblance of stability that he could grasp. Oh, if he really loved me, she thought, I would be tempted to give him that feeling that there was some- 117 thing permanent in the world. But could I? Could I, unless my heart that sense of reality. Or did you take in your young eager hands only a shadow? Did you, who had been reared to look for more than this life promises, who had been taught to look far, ? past the g world?did you find the treasure that would fill your heart and your days for ever and ever? Alec bent his head, but he did not try to kiss her. He laid his cheek against her hair. "Don't be troubled, Delsa darling whispered, troubled." He was silent for a long time and then he went on with a anyway, I'm sure it is teal And what more can we ask, Delsa, what more?" The spell was broken. Delsa drew away from him, took his arm and started walking slowly beside him. "You're asking a childish question Alec, and I won't answer it. Come, we must hurry, or we']| be late for Supper?and Mother Promised you biscuits, remember?" (To be concluded ) NOTES FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. MESSAGES FROM THE MISSIONS (Continued ) Danish Mission Ev=VA M. GREGERSEN, President of the Danish Mission Board, reports on the extensive activities of the Relief Societies in her country. "The Mission Board today is the same as the one President Garff set apart before he left Denmark almost six years ago. In spite of many difficulties we have been happy that we have succeeded in keeping together all these years and in doing what little we could to keep the Relief Society work up in the Danish Mission. We hope that the time is not so far away when we again can receive help and instructions from Zion. We need them badly. "However, we are happy to say that the Lord has blessed us wonderfully in our work in spite of everything. We have had board meetings in my home every month and, if necessary, oftener. Besides the more ordinary things, such as visiting the sick and needy, helping with funerals, giving financial aid when deemed necessary, and especially at Christmas time, when all our old members have received some little encouragement, giving at least one good yearly outing for our old members, etc., we have during the war taken up the work of helping our Page 118 starving brother-land, Norway. Together with the mission office, we have been giving money to this purpose and every month many nice packages with food have been sent to our brothers and sisters in Norway, who have been thankful beyond words. "Even if the food situation in Denmark has been better than in other European countries, we have also had our difficulties to fight, and the Mission Board has felt the necessity of sending instructions to all our Relief Societies about gathering extra food supplies for an emergency. And the different Relief Societies have responded wonderfully and have had in store many valuable things which ordinarily were very hard to get. We are very, very thankful to the Lord that peace came instead of invasion at the time when we dreaded it most, so our food supply was not needed as badly as it might have been, but the Relief Society was prepared to help in every way possible. Now, the things have either been sent to Norway or given to the saints, and some of them were sold to get money for other purposes. "On March 17, 1942, we had a great celebration all over the mission NOTES FROM THE FIELD 119 DANISH MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS Left to right: counselor; Valborg Johansen, First Counselor; Eva M. Gregersen, President. Fanny Jacobsen, Secretary-Treasurer; Johanne Ostrup, Second Coun- (Photograph submitted by Eva M. Gregersen) and the Mission Board was busy a long time ahead. I wish you could have seen our celebration here in Copenhagen. For once we got permission to have a banquet in the big hall, and a wonderful banquet it was. The program was excellent and the Mission Board was represented, too, of course. Sister Ostrup had written a lovely poem for the occasion, and I wrote a prologue with the title "You Are Needed, O Woman, on Earth.? I had likewise translated a suitable play for the occasion. All these things, of course, were sent out to the mission branches. We had reports from all branches of good socials and meetings. The Sunday night program had been sent out by the Mission Board and had been a great success. "Another occasion we remember with joy was the Centennial Memorial of the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith. On this occasion we had saints from all of Denmark gathered here in Copenhagen and President West gave us permission to have one day "for Relief Society work. We had a wonderful meeting in the big hall, where all the branches were represented. All the members of the Board talked to the sisters. Sister Valborg Johansen, my first counselor, talked on the subject 'Recreation in the Relief Society.' My second counselor, Sister Johanne Ostrup, talked on "What Can We Learn From Our Sisters in Relief Society in the U. S. A., Especially Concerning Ward Teacher Work? Sister Fanny Jacobsen, Secretary-treasurer, talked on "The Financial Side of Relief Society Work,' and I talked on the lesson work, and, besides, tried to answer all the questions the sisters asked, and they were many. We wish we could have many meetings of that kind. "At this meeting our new choir, the Singing Mothers, sang for us under the direction of Sister Valborg Johansen. The Board has taken a great interest in this work. Sister Ostrup has written about it in the Star and has done what she could to encourage it. "Of course, the lesson work has been a great problem, but we have tried to keep it going with old lessons. Sometimes we have borrowed material from other organizations, and for a long period I wrote some lessons in letter form, 'from heart to heart,' presenting practical and religious problems in question form, and sent them out once a month. The saints wrote and asked for more of the same kind. We always have the three kinds of lessons in the month: theology, literature, and social science. 'The fourth meeting is free to be spent as the sisters see fit, either work-meeting, testimony, or special programs. "In the whole of Denmark there are only 174 members on the books, but when one sees the yearly reports, I feel that we have reason to be thankful for the results. Visits to the sick amounted last year to 1024 and 119 families were helped. "But we are longing for help. We long for the Magazine and for the lessons and instructions. Please give our co-workers our love and greetings. Tell them we pray for them and will be very happy to hear from them. And when the time comes that we again can receive visits from the US. A., words cannot express how great our joy will be." British Mission EXCERPTS from a letter, dated July 31, 1945, from Sister Eda V. Longbone, secretary in the British Mission office, to Sister Maude F. Hanks, president of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society: "It has been raining, now don't you go and say that it is always raining in England, most Americans do, you know. However, the sun does shine at times and today is one of those times. It really is lovely out. Ravenslea stands on the corner and faces the park so we get plenty of open space and can view lots of green trees, grass and some flowers. As I say, it is fine today; yesterday it was raining. The thing that has come to me is that our trees, etc. Look all the greener and fresher for the rain, wind and storm they have gone through. Today they are able to look up at the sun, seemingly smile, and are able to stretch out long arms upwards, strong, green, lovely and sweet scented. Why? Because yesterday in the storm they took it properly. They just dug their roots in farther, took in all the nourishment they could from the rain and just held on until all was over. We humans are not much like that, for when the storm comes, often we wilt down under it, we forget that it is for our good and advancement. Then, when the sun does shine again, we are not able to take full benefit from it, because we are not any stronger, nor sweeter nor fresher for the storms of yesterday. 120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?FEBRUARY 1946 "This past week-end has been a busy one for us at the mission home. We always take in what service boys we can, and this time we had four staying for the two days. The other day one of our boys (our boys are the finest the world over, you know) did one of the sweetest, and finest he did not do it with that object in mind. He did it because his heart is in the right place. His name is Millard Earl Gooch, a lieutenant in the Air Force. His job at the moment is, as I understand it, to take U. S. troops from various parts of Europe to England, on leave and on duty, so he gets here at times for a night.
"This lad is one of my lambs. Each of us missionaries has special boys that we sort of like and mother or sister particularly, and we call them our lambs. Earl Gooch is one of mine. He comes from Salford, Avizona.
"Apparently at times he is some where in Poland, and there has become acquainted with some of the Poles. When he came to us at first he told us something of these people, how nice they were, also how ragged up they were for clothes, even to needles and cotton for sewing. They were not members of the Church, he said, but that did not make any difference. He would get anything for them in the way of knitting yarn on ships. As you know, he could not, but we did get some colored silks for stitching, and one or two little knick-knacks like that. Then two of us gave him five coupons, I gave two, another gave two. We fixed him for bed clothing or two things, two pairs of stockings, the not fully fashioned are only one and one-half coupons each, and two colored head scarfs, one coupon each.
"When he returned to the office you would have thought he had been able to buy the wealth of the Indies he was so pleased. Then mission mother, Sister Florence Dunn, got to know of this little project of his and made him up a parcel of used clothing. She felt that the need was indeed justified.
"He is a very young, smart lieutenant, but he did not mind hugging his cumbersome parcel off with him when he went back to Poland. Now we have had two letters from two of the little girls he helped in Poland. I enclose one of them for you to see. I dare say, like me, you will not be able to read it. According to his letter ' (very beautiful clothing) girls are so happy, and were eager that he should send their letters right away, in case we thought they were ungrateful. Several have benefited by his sweet act of kind thoughtfulness, for he goes on to say 'You should see them. Polish, Russian, Dutch, and French all promenading with their felt slipshoes on their (very beautiful clothing).'
"President Brown has gone on the Continent to hold services with the boys, and according to reports, the one he held in Paris was a great success. He was before a thousand present for the three meetings of the trip, and their spirituality was enjoyed by all who were privileged to be present."
On the passing of Britain's oldest Church member, Sister Fola Longbone writes:
"Sister Johanna Porter, affectionately known as 'Granny Jo,' was at the home of her daughter, Ruth Amy Tomes, in Waterlooville, near Portsmouth, Hampshire, England, 17th July 1945, in her 101st year. She is survived by three children, twenty grandchildren, seventeen greatgrandchildren and two great-greatgrandchildren. "She was born at Cowes, Isle of Wight, England, 5th October 1844, and was baptized first into the Church at the age of fifteen years. Later she received baptism again, as many of her day did. "Granny Porter was an old Relief Society sister. In her early days she acted as a midwife, and as the scenes of her activities were situated far from any existent branch, she made it a practice to carry with her a bottle of consecrated oil, which, on rare but urgent occasions, she used with humble prayer on newly born infants. In each case, the use of it was efficacious. "Of later years, when her activities were curtailed by age, she would read from cover to cover The Relief Society Magazine, and give many of its wise teachings to the younger ones who liked to gather round her. Another book she loved was the Doctrine and Covenants. She would pour over it for hours, often with difficulty, for her sight grew weaker with her passing years. She used a magnifying glass and would pick out the words slowly and painstakingly with the aid of that. "Another thing Granny Porter used to recall with great satisfaction was that her mother, Mary Ann Tippett, one of the very early converts to the Church, used to spend hours tracting and preaching the newly restored gospel in her district, and at times her daughter accompanied her. "The funeral ceremony took place at her home. Duning it, her body lay peacefully among a host of floral tributes, sweet scented and colorful, from many relatives and friends who loved her for her gentle ways and kindly words. London's District President, George F. Poole, conducted the ceremony and later dedicated the grave. 'The speakers were Sister Eda V. Longbone, representing the mission office, and Elder Darwin Gubler of the American Army. "The last earthly resting place of this aged sister is in a little cemetery situated among the green fields near her home. From this place many miles of English countryside can be seen, cultivated fields, and away in the distance lies the blue strip of sea, known as the English Channel. "The day she was carried there was, though windy, sweet and fresh. It seemed just the setting and right send-off for this small-built woman who had spent the greater part of her 100 34 years in active service to others. To the very last she was a faithful Latter-day Saint." Stuttgart Dist. (German Mission) MARIA R. SPEIDEL, President Stuttgart District Relief Society, German Mission, reports on the activities of the branches in her district, the first report to come from Germany since the beginning of the Wal: "May we, your sisters in the gospel from across the waters and from a war-torn world, greet you and wish 122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?FEBRUARY 1946 NOTES FROM THE FIELD upon you our Heavenly Father's choicest blessings. "The past five years have been difficult ones and we have become very humble. Our trust in the Lord and our testimony of his Church have been our pillar of strength. He has kept us mercifully, and although there was much to suffer, he has given to us a measure of his strength. Some of us have lost all our earthly Possessions, every tangible thing ever dear to us, and when we sav It is better to walk with God in the darkness than without him in the light, we know whereof we speak. "Since July 14, 1933, it has been my pleasure and responsibility to Preside over the Relief Societies in the Stuttgart District. We number five districts: Esslingen, Feuerbach, Goeppingen, Heilbronn, and Stuttgart. "I am thrilled to inform you that all during the war we were able to hold our meetings regularly every week. The sisters are working together in love and harmony. Hardships have brought about 'a closer understanding. "On September 30, 1945, we held our belated spring conference. The Relief Society had charge of the Saturday night meeting. We chose 'Women of the Bible' for the topic. "We are looking forward to the time when we shall be privileged once more with a representative from headquarters. We remember with fond emotions Sister Laura Salzner, Susan Kelly, and Evelyn Wood. "The coming winter will be a most difficult one. We are short of everything, but we want to feel that the trials of today are Preparing us for the blessings of tomorrow1. 23 MARIA R. SPEIDEL President, Stuttgart District Relief Society, German Mission.. With  joy we sing the songs of Zion and put our trust in the Lord. He maketh all things well." Southern States Mission From the Southern States Mission Relief Society comes the following report: "As a part of the cultural program of the Relief Society in the Southern States Mission, Sister Effie Meeks, Relief Society President, has been stressing the art of homemaking. Believing that the visual method is the most effective way to teach, Sister Meeks has been conducting demonstrations of different home arts at the district quarterly conferences. "These demonstrations have been carried out most successfully in most of the districts and have been found very satisfactory to the Relief Society members in developing within them a greater appreciation of culture and refinement in the home. "Sister Meeks has also suggested to the members that they acquire a hobby, a hobby that has a purpose other than the utilization of their leisure time. It is suggested that hobbies be selected which are related to the art of home building. "The following is a list of hobbies which have been suggested and are being used by members throughout the Mission: Shell Craft: We are not only making shell jewelry, but decorating perfume bottles, rosebud vases, tea bells, and many dishes with shell designs. In the South Carolina District artistic vases were made of olive bottles covered with the long pine needles, varnished and trimmed with the pine cones. They are very attractive and unique. Inexpensive glassware with an edge of pretty colored nail polish was also demonstrated. The products of home gardens, flowers and vegetables were displayed in the Mississippi District. Inspirational talks were given along with the demonstration as to how the children were taught to love the life of the seed, and to watch the development of the plant as it grows so that the children will learn to love gardening. Garden clubs are being organized out in some of the districts. The making of negro dolls was demonstrated in the Georgia District. Our sisters have been thrifty in buying mill-end materials from the cotton mills to make sheets, pillowcases, and quilts when they could not go to the stores and find these utilities. JACKSONVILLE BRANCH, SOUTHERN STATES MISSION Sister Clarice Skinner displaying her hobby. These attractive bedspreads and curtains were made from feed sacks which a less artistic and frugal woman might have used as dish towels. Through her hobby Sister Skinner has added much beauty to her home. 124 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?FEBRUARY 1946 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 125 JACKSONVILLE BRANCH, SOUTHERN STATES MISSION Miss Clare DeLoach demonstrating the table appointments and correct arrangement of the silver for a formal dinner. She states: "Few opportunities to display one's tast that which is offered in arranging the table. E and individuality can be compared with Candlelight and flowers, the sparkling luster of glass, are attributes that assure the success of a dinner, be it formal or informal, for as the guests sit down to a charming table they readily respond in a festive mood to such a setting." "Sister Lena Johnson of Cowley, Wyoming, while here on her mission, traveled in several of the districts and taught in the Relief Society meetings the different arts that could be developed by using up scrap materials. She did a beautiful work. "Not only do our sisters learn the necessity of the different art crafts to beautify their homes, but they learn to love this part of the country in which they live by converting materials into articles which are characteristic of the Southland. They build up this part of God's vineyard, which is so attractive, and acquaint the rest of the world with it. "Through the development of these arts the most humble home may be a place of culture, refinement and beauty. Such a home will always be more attractive to the family, and the spirit of our Heavenly Father will abide in all good Latter-day Saint homes." Music Notes Dr. Florence J. Madsen Member Relief Society General Board "We can impart to others only that which we know." THE truthfulness of this statement comes  sooner or later to all of us who try to serve in the organizations of our Church. Just as soon as we are required to give from our meager store of knowledge, we realize that if the giving is to continue for long, we must find ways and means to replenish the storehouse. Fortunately, through the printed page, there have been preserved for us the finest thoughts and ideas of the greatest men and women throughout the ages. Whatever the chosen subject, there is printed material in abundance to cover any phase of that subject. Those who are called to take over the music of any of the auxiliaries of the Church should have access to some standard music textbooks. The Relief Society library of each ward should have in it three books on music which are at all times available to the chorister and to the accompanist. These books are: a music dictionary, a book on the fundamentals of music, and a book on conducting. The conductor and the accompanist should always work together in perfect harmony. Each should give and take to better the cause. All problems should be solved before new music is presented to the singers. Rhythm patterns should be rehearsed sufficiently so that they are not merely attached but are a very part of oneself. Foreign words indicating tempo or speed of the rhythm should be pronounced correctly and defined accurately. All expression marks or signs should be understood and adhered to. The aim should always be to understand all things that appear on the printed page of music and to impart this knowledge to the singing group. Those who are learning to conduct will find it most helpful to practice before a large mirror where they can see their motions and bodily posture. All conductors should use a baton as it is much easier to follow and understand than the varying gestures of the hand. The accompanists should be thoroughly familiar with all the. Accompaniments of songs to be rehearsed or sung. They should be able, at any time, to leave the accompaniment and give help to any part or parts that need help. This often requires that the accompanist read from three different staves simultaneously. This is rather a difficult thing to do and requires considerable practice. A great musician said: The conductor of a singing group may be quite ordinary, but with the help of a fine accompanist, can do extraordinary work, while, on the contrary, the fine conductor et a poor accompanist can accomplish little. MUSIC NOTES The singing group can progress to no greater heights than the leadership can take it. We never reach perfection, but we are ever on its trail. Joy comes with every new thing learned and shared with others, so we should avail ourselves of any opportunity to improve our talents. Note: The General Board recommends that each ward Relief Society purchase three of the five books listed below and keep them available for reference. It is suggested that these books be carefully preserved in order that they may be used from year to year, and that someone be held responsible for them. 127 Suggested References: CORNWALL, SPENCER, Fundamentals of Conducting....................$.50 Etson, Louis Charles, Pocket Music Dictionary Paper COVER..........$..50 Cloth cover .........-$1.75 GEHRKENS, Kart Witson, Essentials in Conducting................----$1.75 GEHRKENS, Kari Wison, The Fundamentals of Music............$1.50 SMITH, Leo, Musical Rudiments $1.00 These books are available at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. A PRAYER Celia Van Cott Lord, we give thanks? The sword is sheathed; the bullets cease, Across the earth we hope for peace; White doves are loosed to fly Unmolested through the sky. Bring comfort, Lord, to those who yearn For loved ones who will not return, To crippled lads and those in pain? Teach them to live and laugh again. Cleanse hearts of hate, O Lord, with your giving, Touch eyes gone blind; teach us Christ's way of living. DEPARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 16?The Building of Temples Continues Dr. H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday May 7, 1946 Objective: To show that God provides for the fulfillment of all his purposes. AMONG the many glorious things that came to Joseph Smith on the night of September 21, 1823, were the words concerning the coming of Elijah. There in the celestial brightness of his humble room, this young American Prophet received wisdom from the heavenly messenger, Moroni. Joseph wrote of the event as follows: After telling me these things, he commenced quoting the prophecies of the Old Testament. He first quoted part of the third chapter of Malachi; and he quoted also the fourth or last chapter of the same prophecy, though with a little variation from the way it reads in our Bible. Instead of quoting the first verse as it reads in our books, he quoted it thus: For behold, the day cometh that shall bum as an oven, and all the proud, yea, all that do wickedly shall burn as stubble; for they that come shall burn them, saith the Lord of Hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch. And again, he quoted the fifth verse thus: Behold, I will reveal unto you the Priesthood, by the hand of Elijah the prophet, before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. Page 128 He also quoted the next verse differently: And he shall plant in the hearts of the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers. If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming. In addition to these, he quoted the eleventh chapter of Isaiah, saying that it was about to be fulfilled. He quoted also the third chapter of Acts, twenty-second and twenty-third verses, precisely as they stand in our New Testament. He said that that prophet was Christ; but the day had not yet come when "they who would not hear his voice should be cut off from among the people," but soon would come. He also quoted the second chapter of Joel, from the twenty-eighth verse to the last. He also said that this was not yet fulfilled, but was soon to be. And he further stated that the fulness of the Gentiles was soon to come in. He quoted many other passages of scripture, and offered many explanations which cannot be mentioned here (Joseph Smith, 2:36-41). Today, some one hundred and twenty odd years since that evening in the early fall of 1823 on the Palmyra farm, a great Church with followers throughout the world, has LESSON DEPARTMENT come to know the mighty mission of Elijah and the explanations of his work which then the Prophet said could not be mentioned. It has been within the sacred temples of the Lord built by the Latter-day Saints within this century that much of the work of turning the hearts of the children to their fathers and the hearts of the fathers to their children has taken place. The Lord knew that giving men their free agency would, of necessity, bring waywardness and heartaches. But he was willing to suffer these things to be, since he also knew that the greatest joy comes through the personal struggle to conquer self and sin; that salvation is not something that comes suddenly, but rather it is that process of day-by-day living that teaches us the folly of our weaker ways and the blessings of our stronger moments. We must learn to know?through firsthand experience?why the Lord's way is always the right way. Then, when living has made this truth ours, we will love him the more dearly because of his infinite patience and understanding. There, too, will come the joy of seeing others dear to us rise in the majesty of self-control. The great mercy of our Heavenly Father provides in such a plan for life the encompassing of man's preexistent, mortal, and post-mortal years. Further, the Lord's plan provides that a place be established where links between the earth and the heavens may be bound, a place in the world where men as well as heavenly beings may find communion. Such a place is in the temples of the Most High. And since there are ordinances to be performed and endowments to be received here on 129 earth, the binding effect of which is to be realized both in this world and in the world to come, again the reason is apparent why such a place of meeting should be. With the coming of the dispensation of the fulness of times which the Prophet Joseph Smith was called to usher in, the Lord had said that the fulness of the Gentiles was at hand. Now he would bring about the fulfilment of prophecies pertaining to the last days and hasten the work of redemption of the faithful both for those upon the earth and those who had gone beyond. His word should be preached in the spirit world as well as to men here and, by means of his temples which should steadily be built until they would dot the earth, all the righteous could become his people. By the thousands, then, men and women in the flesh could become saviors on Mount Zion (Rev. 14:1) by helping to redeem their dead and bring about the great family of elect in Israel. So important was to be this work that the gathering of names of dear ones long since gone would become a major assignment of those living, that, by proxy, the steps not completed for entrance into the kingdom through the waters of baptism might be performed. The Christ was indeed to draw all men who would come unto his bosom. Greatly aware of the need for this work and the weight of responsibility which rested upon him, the Prophet Joseph Smith soon made clear to his gathering saints that they must sacrifice to obtain the blessings of heaven. And so within six years after the organization of the Church, there stood up- on the rich soil of Ohio the first house of the Lord in this dispensation erected by the saints at a cost of inestimable sacrifice. This simple but solid and stately temple was set upon a hill and lifted its spire above the majestic trees of Kirtland. Writes Edward W. Tullidge:... It was commenced in June, 1833, under immediate direction of the Almighty, through his servant, Joseph Smith, whom he called in his boyhood, like Samuel of old, to introduce the fulness of the everlasting gospel. At that time the saints were few in number, and most of them very poor; and had it not been for the assurance that God had spoken, and had commanded that a house should be built to his name, of which he not only revealed the form but also designated the dimensions, an attempt towards building that Temple, under the then existing circumstances, would have been, by all concerned, pronounced preposterous... Its dimensions are eighty by fifty-nine feet; the walls fifty feet high, and the tower one hundred and ten feet. The two main halls are fifty-five by sixty-five feet in the inner court. The building has four vestries in front and five rooms in the attic, which were devoted to literature and for meetings of the various quorums of the priesthood. There was a peculiarity in the arrangement of the inner court which made it more than ordinarily impressive?so much so that a sense of sacred awe seemed to test upon all who entered. Not only the Saints, but strangers also, manifested a high degree of reverential feeling. Four pulpits stood, one above another, in the center of the building, from north to south, both on the east and west ends.... In front of each of these two rows of pulpits was a sacrament table, for the administration of that sacred ordinance. In each comer of the court was an elevated pew for the singers?the choir being distributed into four compartments. In addition to the pulpit-curtains were others, intersecting at right angles, which divided the main ground-floor hall into four equal sections, giving to each one-half of one set of pulpits From the day the ground was broken for laying the foundation of the Temple, until its dedication on the 27th of March, 1836, the work was vigorously prosecuted. With very little capital except brain, bone, and sinew, combined with unwavering trust in God, men, women, and even children, worked with their might. While the brethren labored in their departments, the sisters were actively engaged in boarding and clothing workmen not otherwise provided for?all living as abstemiously as possible so that every cent might be appropriated to the grand object, while their energies were stimulated by the prospect of participating in the blessing of the house built by the direction of the Most High, and accepted by him. ?TULLIDGE, E. W., Life of Joseph, the Prophet, pp. 187-189; See Lundwall, N. B., Temples of the Most High, pp. 7-11. One week following the dedication of the Kirtland Temple, it being the Sabbath, April 3, 1836, Joseph Smith the Prophet and Oliver Cowdery had retired to the pulpit, the veils being dropped. They bowed in solemn prayer. As they arose a marvelous vision was opened to both of them (See Doc. And Cov. 110). How glorious had been the fulfillment of the words of the Angel Moroni! Since this day of the coming of the Lord to his temple, the saints have gone on, at times under the most trying circumstances, to build other houses to the Lord, and within these have found the soul-enriching experiences promised those who would go about the work of salvation for their dead. As the work of the Lord progresses, the great temple to be erected in Missouri will one day be a reality, the corner stones of which were laid August 3, 1831. Pointing to that day and in preparation for it there have been built upon the earth the following temples erected by a people devoted to the King of heaven and the fulfillment of his excellent word. The Genealogical Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, which was established in 1894 as the Genealogical Society of Utah, to forward the vital program of the Church in the matter of temple work for the living and dead, was reincorporated for one hundred years on November 20, 1944, and its name changed as given above In addition to the many services offered to members of the Church in assisting them to do temple work for the living and dead, the Genealogical Society also maintains a library for g enealogical research which includes at the present time over 30,000 printed volumes and over 4,000 volumes of microfilm records (including over one million pages of original records from North Carolina and three-quarters of a million pages from Tennessee). It has the largest foreign section of any genealogical library in America and includes many unique collections among which is a copy of Boyd's Marriage Index containing the names of six million Persons who Married in England.. 130 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?FEBRUARY 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT  The only other copy of this Marriage Index is in London, England. Names of temples, dates of dedication, and by whom dedicated follow: Kirtland?March 27, 1836-  Prophet Joseph Smith. Nauvoo?May 1, 1846?Elders Orson Hyde and Wilford Woodruff. St. George?April 6, 1877? Daniel H. Wells. 131 Logan?May 17, 1884?President John Tayor Manti?May 21, 1888?Elder Lorenzo Snow. Salt Lake?April 6, 1893?Presjdent Wilford Woodruff. Hawaiian?November 27, 1919? President Heber J. Grant. Alberta?August 26, 1923?President Heber J. Grant. Arizona?October 23 President Heber J. Grant. Idaho Falls?September 23, 1945 ?President George Albert Smith,  Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion P of the Suggestive readings given below have the class carry on discussion as follows: first, answer the questions, second read the assigned part of the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word.? 1. To understand more fully the things of God and the great blessings given in his temples one might well begin by learn. 46:10-33 with the notes following found in the Commentary 2. Within the temples of the Most High the saints are drawn closer to the world beyond. How can one here in life learn to know the true from the false spirit in Preparation for the finer things of the Lord? Read Doc. And Coy. 50. The supreme joys to be found in the temples of the Lord cannot truly be discussed, they are to be lived in sacred places. It is hoped, therefore, that this second series on Church history has in some way awakened a desire for those who have studied to make themselves worthy of the Lord's greatest blessings to be given in his holy temples. For pictures of Latter-day Saint temples see A Relief Society Century, page 64. Visiting Teachers' Messages Sources of Strength?Charity Lesson 8?Charity Never Faileth Dr. Lowell L. Bennion For Tuesday, May 7, 1946 Objective: To encourage people to put their trust in charity as the unfailing means of improving themselves and of influencing others for good. Charity never faileth: but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away. For we know in part, and we prophecy in part. But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away.... For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face: now I know in part; but then shall I know even as also I am known. And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity (I Cor. 13:8 ff). Paul wrote these words to the Corinthian saints because they were disputing among themselves about the relative importance of certain spiritual gifts. Some saints were making a show of the gift of tongues ?causing confusion, envy, and strife in their meetings. Paul did not intend to minimize the value of prophecy, the gift of tongues, and knowledge, but he knew that the things we know in part shall "be done away" with when a fulness of knowledge comes. He asked only that the Corinthian saints entertain a proper sense of values and cease having disputations concerning divine gifts. Love is at the heart of the gospel of Christ. The development of love and of the other great attributes of Deity in the lives of individuals and in society is the chief aim of the gospel. Prophecy, knowledge, and spiritual gifts inspired of Deity will always contribute towards this purpose. The passing of time has not changed the value of Paul's emphasis on charity or love. Love is still the first commandment and the end of our religious striving. Other things in life, not in harmony with love, shall pass away. Knowledge alone, for example, will not bring us peace; knowledge alone will not enable us to rear our children in paths of righteousness; prophecies, the gift of tongues, a theoretical knowledge of the gospel alone will not guarantee us a happy and successful life together in the Church or in the world. All of these things, to be of value, must be accompanied by the spirit of love. It is growth in love and good will based on gospel-living which will endure and never fail us. Paul's counsel to the Corinthians applies with equal force to us today. Let a husband and wife make decisions with charity as well as with knowledge, for their decisions will pass but their love will endure. Let a mother counsel her children with love as well as with knowledge, for a proud youth may not heed his mother's words but he will not forget her 132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?FEBRUARY 1946 love. Let the worker in the Church Or a tinkling cymbal," Let us put labor with the love of Christ lest his our faith in love and never neglect Words "become as Sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal.? Let us put our faith in love and never neglect it. Literature The Bible in Our Literature Lesson 8-Bible Influence as Revealed in Children?s Literature D. Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, May 21, 1946 LITERATURE for children had its beginning in folk lore. Out of the wealth of stories created in the long-ago for fireside entertainment and to impress life lessons have come many stories of appeal for both young and old. Youth enjoys the story; age gets more of the inner meaning from it. In this time tested literature is a rich heritage for all.
Among these treasures are Aesop's fables?a collection of little tales, mainly of Greek origin, each carrying its moral. Legend has woven some interesting stories about Aesop. He is said to have been a pedagogue or teacher, full of quaint wit and wisdom. Certain it is that the tales credited to him preserve in living form some helpful maxims; for example:
THE BOY WHO CRIED WOLF
A young shepherd tending his flock on a hillside not far from a village, decided to have some sport; he suddenly cried, "Wolf, Wolf!"
Immediately there was a scurrying of the men from town up the hills to help tend his sheep. But when they came puffing up to where he was, they found him laughing at his trick.
Next day he tried the same foolish trick. Again the men came by his help, and again they were laughed at by the silly shepherd. On the third day, a wolf really did come. The boy shouted and shouted but no one walked up his help. Some of the flock were killed before the men, in the tow. A liar is not believed even when he does tell the truth.
Action centered in a simple but interesting plot, with appropriate conversation to add life, makes these fables of Aesop rare stories. Added to this they impress practical life lessons. Each class member will recall some of the good old fables that Aesop, or someone else, has bequeathed to us. These stories are not linked with the Bible, but they are in keeping with its helpful teachings.
Legends are another type of stories which not only charm but often teach. One the writer has carried in pleasant memory for years is that of Androcles and the Lion. It tells a tale of a Greek slave who was saved by a lion from whose wounded foot he had extracted a large, painful thorn.
 LESSON DEPARTMENT 133 Later, Androclus, captured by the Romans and trained as a gladiator, met the same lion in the arena. The beast bounded forward to attack, but stopped. It would not fight its friend. The Emperor, learning the reason, ordered both Androclus and the lion freed. This is just a legend?blending some historical facts with fancy? but it impresses the value of kindness to animals. The story of Damon and Pythias is another legend portraying loyal friendship. Many similar stories have been passed down to us. Like Aesop's fables, they were created before Christianity came to the Greeks, but many of them are in consonance with the Christian spirit. Another type of story created and preserved by the common folk is the fairy tale. To the Grimm Brothers ?early day students of language and folklore?we are indebted for a wealth of these and other folk stories. Created for fireside entertainment and told and retold down the years, many of these old stories have not only rhythmic charm but everyday goodness. Each will recall a favorite among these tales. One that has literally gone round the world is Cinderella. A story basically like it has been found even among the Indians, but instead of dainty glass slippers, the little red heroine wore beautifully beaded moccasins; and the hero, of course, was a fine young chieftain. Folk think of the Cinderella story as purely fanciful. It is all that and far more. It is true to life and true to truth. At heart its lesson is: Real worth will one day come into its own. An interesting thing about these old folk tales is the spirit of democracy that they radiate. Cinderella, the faithful little kitchen maid, wins the prince. In Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, recreated recently in a colorful photoplay by Walt Disney, we have the same intermingling of folk of high and low degree. Those characters possessing home virtues always win in the best of the fairy tales preserved by Jacob and Wilhelm Grimm. Mother Goose, of course, must not be forgotten. Where this quaint old creature came from, with her jingles and her interesting folk of every type, no one surely knows. Some like to think she was a real person, but that seems not true. Nursery thymes that are linked with the name are probably just creations of the common people, mainly, of old England. No matter what the source of nursery thymes, they have fascinated children through the years. They are the first literature of tiny tots; they charm grandparents, too, or others who take time to share their music and fun with the lively boys and girls. Wholesome humor and entertainment sparkle in the best of the Mother Goose rhymes. They hold a wealth of human nature, too. This heritage of time-tested literature provides not merely recreation, but a basis of understanding and appreciation for all literature. No finer examples of storytelling can be found than in the folk tales. Having been passed in oral form along the stream of time, they are like the water-tumbled stones, rounded and polished. To survive folk criticism, the story had to have appeal for common people. 134 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?FEBRUARY 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT This is why homely virtues win praise; and good triumphs over evil in these classic tales. They offer a standard measurement with which to judge more modern creations. Further, because they have been woven into many of the more recent stones for old and young through language, allusions, and characters, it becomes doubly necessary that children and grownups get closer to this literary heritage. Best of all the story treasures from long ago are those from the Bible. Children, under the guidance of their parents, should grow up with these. Beginning with the ones that deal with childhood and youth as "Abraham and Isaac," "Joseph and His Brothers," "The Boy Samuel," "David, the Young Shepherd," the "Story of the Christ Child," boys and girls can be led into a love of the Book of Books. No better practice than that of reading aloud in the home choice selections from the Bible can be recommended. This applies both from the viewpoint of implanting a love of gospel truth, and cultivating literary appreciation; for the Bible as we have it in the King James translation, is superb English literature. This may be plainly seen when its stories are properly voiced. Excellent books to help foster such appreciation are Hulbert's Story of the Bible for Young and Old and The Illustrated Bible Story Book by Seymour Loveland. Attractive 'other books portraying the Bible for young folk are also available. Of course the Bible itself is always a first reference. Literature created especially for children did not make its appearance to any great extent before about the middle of the nineteenth century. 135  What the little folk were given before that time was what might be called family literature?stories young and old might enjoy. One of the fireside favorites, along with Bible stories, was Pilgrim's Progress by John Bunyan. In her Little Women, Louisa M. Alcott pictures the joy she and her sisters had in following Christian, the hero of this allegory, in his soul-testing adventures on the way to the "Delectable Mountains." Robinson Crusoe, by Daniel Defoe, and Gulliver's Travels, by Jonathan Swift, are other adventure stories widely enjoyed round the hearth-sides of earlier days, except those of severely Puritan cast, where fiction was strictly ruled out. What these folk wanted for themselves and their children was the Bible. To train their young folk in the reading of the scriptures, they established their schools. An easy step to this end was provided in the New England Primer, which begins with this couplet: In Adam's fall We sinned all. School readers created later varied the strictly Biblical offerings somewhat, yet they kept a strongly religious tone. Even the famed McGuffey Readers, first published in 1879, keep close to the Bible in spirit and content. Love of God, love of nature, of home and friends, respect for parents, kindliness, charity, honesty and the other Christian virtues are all impressed with a choice selection of stories, poems, and other literature in the McGuffey Readers. "Rather old-fashioned," someone may remark, Yes, but in tribute to his great contribution to character building, American leaders ?Henry Ford among them?not so long ago joined in honoring the memory of James McGuffey, creator of the pioneer texts which bear his name. With the rise of the common schools came an increase in literature designed especially for children. Stories and poems for the young began to appear. Authors turned their talents more towards the creation of literature of appeal for little folk, and for youth. A few of them won literary fame through such creations. Among the first thus to rise was Hans Christian Andersen, of Denmark. His delightful stories, for children of all ages, spread beyond his native land to become a treasured possession?the best of them? of children everywhere. Some of these tales are, like those of the Grimm Brothers, just old folk stories preserved with Andersen's artistry. Others are of his own creation. In The Ugly Duckling we are given, so many think, a life picture of the author himself, as he was transformed from a boyhood of poverty and struggle to the life of a graceful writer, like the swan, admired by all. It is a story beloved by children everywhere for its sweetness of spirit and happy outcome. Five Peas in a Pod is another of Andersen's created tales that tells of God's gift of a little flower to bring health and happiness to a humble home. In our own country and England, a number of talented writers have bequeathed to young folk a wealth of choice literature. Any list of these authors would not, of course, represent the favorites of all our youth or their parents. Tastes and reading opportunities vary. Certain authors, however, will have place in practically every well-chosen selection of stories for the young?and this because what they create is interesting, artistic, wholesome. Their books can be safely read round any home fireside. A story of how one family built up a choice library may be helpful here. Inspired by the mother who read choice literature aloud to her children for evening recreation, the boys and girls of this family decided to help her enrich the home library. Their plan was simple. Carefully selected books were to be given as birthday and Christmas presents for several years. With the help of teachers and the mother, the books were chosen. As a result of this concerted effort new volumes began to brighten the o]d bookcase. Among them were the following: Little Women and Old Fashioned Girl by Louisa May Alcott; The Prince and the Pauper and Tom Sawyer by Mark 'Twain, Bird's Christmas Carol, and Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm by Kate Douglas Wiggin; Helen's Babies by John Habberton; Adventures in Friend: ship by David Grayson; Hoosier School Boy by Edward Eggleston; Birds, Bees and Other Studies in Nature, by John Burroughs; Wild Animals I Have Known by Emest Thompson Seton; Boy's Life of Lincoln, by Helen Nicolay; Story of My Life by Helen Keller, A Watcher in the Woods by Dallas Lore Sharp; Wonder Book and Tanglewood Tales by Nathaniel Hawthorne; Sketch Book by Washington Irving; The Crisis by Winston Churchill; Boy Life on the Prairie by Hamlin Garland; Captain Courageous and The Jungle Books by Rudyard Kipling; The Honorable Peter Stirling by Paul Ford; Hero 136 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?FEBRUARY 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT Tales from American History by Theodore Roosevelt and Henry Cabot Lodge. Added to these were poems by Riley, by Stevenson, by Eugene Field; and a collection of readings in prose and verse under the title of One Hundred Choice Selections. Best of all, the library was enjoyed; it was the center of the home. Not only the family, but many of the neighbors came informally to enjoy the sharing of its riches, especially when there was a story-sharing hour or an evening with the poets. Observe that there was a rich variety in the selection of books for that home library. All need a wholesome, varied diet for mind and spirit as well as for the body. One division that would seem to be lacking in this collection is books for little folk; but remember, it was boys and girls in their early adolescent years who helped build up the library here referred to. Had there been little ones among them, the list would doubtless have included Little Black Sambo by Helen Bannerman; Peter Rabbit by Beatrix Potter; Pinocchio by Collody; Heidi by Spyri; Mother Goose Village by Madge Bingham; Nursery Rhymes selected by Charles Welsh, or the richly illustrated Denslow's Mother Goose; and surely, if the choice were made now, Bambi by Felix Salton would not be forgotten. Neither would Little House in the Big Woods, and Little House on the Prairie, etc., by Laura Ingalls Wilder be omitted from the home library. Children's literature in these days is coming off the press in rapidly increasing quantity. "Of the making books," to quote scripture, "there is no end." Most of these created, 137 however, ate butterfly-like, showy, and just for a season. What ones will live and last only time can tell. Some are cleverly written; too few seem to possess classic qualities which give continuing joy. We need literature for entertainment, of course. It is only that which is read and reread, however, that brings recreation, uplift, wisdom. Our people should not only seek out choice literature for children from what has been and is being created; but also should encourage the creation by our own authors of children's literature of lasting quality. Great literature, we should remember, is lived before it is written. Out of the courageous living of the Latter-day Saints of more than a hundred years, materials of rarest quality have been made for great literature for young and old. The spirit of true authorship should be more assiduously cultivated. More attention should be given to studying and developing artistry of expression? not sophisticated style?but that which rings true, which is simple, concrete, Bible-inspired. Another vital need is more voicing of beautiful literature in our homes. 'There is no academy on earth," says Horace E. Scudder, "equal to a mother's reading to her child." Further, there is for all mothers the equivalent of a good many college courses in an earnest study of children's literature. 'There is joy also in cultivating a love of literature in children and guiding wisely their book companionship, in helping them tactfully to find for themselves the real gold. And now, may the writer pay loving tribute to his own mother. Whatever love and appreciation he has for literature has come primarily because she inspired it during his boyhood by voicing beautifully choice literature in the home. It is a precious memory. A reader sent me a short verse by Strickland Gillilan called "Wealth." I hope it impresses you as it did me. You may have tangible wealth untold, Caskets of jewels and coffers of gold. Richer than I, you never can be? I had a mother who read to me. Discussion and Activities 1, a?What is a story you have treasured from childhood? B?What Biblical qualities are revealed in the story? 2. A?Why is it of basic importance that both parents and children know the best of the fables, the legends, the fairy tales, the nursery rhymes? Give two good reasons. B?What choice selection of any of these tales or rhymes?in well-printed, artistically illustrated form?do you know? Bring, if you can, some such book to class. 3. A?What vital values are there in having parents and children share through oral reading round the fireside choice old tales, Bible stories, and good poetry? B?Why should this reading be done by both parents and children? 4. A?How can parents and children cooperate in building up a choice library in the home? B?What good help can teachers, librarians and booksellers give in this bringing of better books to children? C? Why should young folk themselves have a part in this gathering of choice literature for the whole family? 5. A?What classic stories have been used in photoplays within recent years? B?What, as you observed it, was the effect in restoring interest in such stories? 6. A?Write the name of two books? one of earlier creation, one of more modern production?which you would strongly recommend for children. B?What qualities are common to both of them? 7. A?What plan would you suggest for guiding boys and girls during adolescence in their book companionship? B?Name one wholesome love story you would be happy to have them read. 8. A?How can artistry in authorship be encouraged among our people? B?What stories or other literature already created out of the wealth of materials available would you recommend for youth? G. A?Why is wholesome literature for entertainment, for cultivating good humor essential? B?Why also should children be provided with a goodly supply of books that give recreation, that will be reread? that are Bible-inspired? Suggestions to Literature Class Leaders The following practical suggestions for teachers of the literature course have been sent to the General Board by the author of the 1945- 1946 literature lessons, Brother Howard R. Driggs. During his extensive traveling he has talked with many Relief Society class leaders. As a result of these conversations he has prepared the following suggestions: First: My advice to you teachers is?Study the Discussion Questions First. See whether, without reading the lesson, you can answer some of these questions in part or completely. Whether you can or not, you will be better prepared to _ study the lesson proper. You will also be better prepared to gather additional materials to enrich it. Second: Do not look too far afield for helpful materials. First of all, these lessons call for a better working knowledge of the Bible. They will serve as a review and give a new view of many of the well-known stories and other parts of that great book. Another thing: The lessons are so planned that most of the literature needed to make them come to life can be easily obtained from books in the home library, from literary texts that are being used by children in grades or in high school, and certainly, in the public library where such libraries are available. 138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?FEBRUARY 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT I am making these suggestions because I feel that, first of all, teachers and class members are not appreciating the study questions and suggestions that follow the lessons. These have been worked out with great care and with the general membership of your organization in clear 139 view. They point the way towards fruitful activity that will help make the course alive and interesting. By considering these discussion questions and topics first, teachers will be helped to get away from the lecture method. One way to do this, even more effectively, is to let members of the class be assigned to lead in discussing the various questions. This will bring them to the class prepared for action. Social Science Modern Applications of Moral Principles Lesson 14?Morality and the Church Dr. Harold T. Christensen For Tuesday, May 28, 1946 Lesson link: Last month we applied principles of social ethics to the problem of economic inequality, racketeering, political corruption, and war. It was shown that justice is often violated in the modern world, and that real peace and happiness can never come until man learns how to be fair, equable, and charitable toward his fellowmen. Lesson aim: To examine religion as a moral force in life. Ig was Jesus who said, "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled" (Matthew 5:6); and Nephi makes this more clear (III Nephi 12:6). Religion supplies an urge to righteousness, a motive for morals. Just as the family is the seedbed of character so is the church the climate under which it can best develop. Religion views righteousness against the background of eternal life, and by helping people to see mote clearly and feel more deeply it supplies the spiritual lift so necessary in times of temptation and moral crisis. Soul Erosion There is considerable talk these days about the waste of natural resources, about the problem of soil erosion and the necessity for conservation. All of this is well and good. But an even more serious problem, and one that is receiving too little attention, is the problem of soul erosion and the importance of conservation in the field of human resources. What good is material wealth if it is used for dissipation and destruction? What good is technological advancement if it fails to bring peace and happiness to a world that is tired and sick from centuries of sin? Scientific learning and material progress are of little value if they leave man in misery; it is socially, spiritually, and morally that we lag. With war come many frightful things, including the publication of long lists of casualties. But there are other casualty lists, more serious even than these, which go unpublished. 'These are the lists of the countless numbers who become calloused to suffering and hardened to sin; of those who give up to temptation, who let down their standards, and who start downhill. It is better to lose a life than to lose a soul. Ethical progress, and the happiness it insures, depend much more upon the method of living than upon life alone; much more upon right than upon might; much more upon morals than upon money. There are only three possible approaches to truth: (1) the approach of the scientist through observation, investigation, and analysis; (2) the approach of the philosopher through meditation, speculation, and logic; and (3) the approach of the religionist through inspiration, revelation, and faith. Most of us rely somewhat upon all three of these sources, leaning more heavily upon one or the other according to individual taste. But some people exclude religion entirely, claiming that it is based upon weakness and naivety and that it leads to superstition rather than truth. These people are mistaken, as the testimony of millions has and will bear witness. The genuine religious experience goes much beyond the sensory experience of the scientist or the rational experience of the philosopher; and those who fail to reach it, fail to really live. But there are those who fail to reach the heights of religious expression; who are content to remain in the world of physical reality alone, skeptical of everything that may lie beyond. And this is one reason for man's inhumanity to man. There is too much materialism and too little spirituality among men today; too much worldliness and too little godliness; too many hedonists and too few moralists. On the Fringe of Righteousness Many who profess religious belief fail to demonstrate it in their conduct. With many, religion is a mere verbalism, or at best a mannerism, but certainly not a way of life. Sometimes institutional religion fails to mesh with society and to vitalize the lives of its people. Sometimes religion doesn't "carry-over." Sometimes people are content to remain on the fringe of righteousness, going through the motions but missing the spirit and the substance of the thing. A few of the ways in which this is done are listed below: (1) Escapism. This is sometimes spoken of as otherworldliness. 'The tendency is to run away from life and to find refuge in the hope of another and better world. This is all right if it isn't carried too far. The church should provide a haven for the oppressed and an incentive for eternal living, but where people become too obsessed and preoccupied with the afterlife they often fail to live properly as they go along. 'They overindulge in wishful thinking, living in a dream world, failing to be realistic. 140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?FEBRUARY 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT (2) Opportunism. This is the tendency on the part of many to turn religion to their own temporal advantage, to use church membership as an opportunity for private profit. Salesmen will intentionally make contacts at church services that they hope to capitalize on later in the year; merchants will purposely build up good will in church so as to increase business; politicians will attend church and become affable in manner in order to get in the public eye and build up their vote-getting strength; et cetera. This might even be called "business religion," for those who practice it turn their worship into a mere business. (3) Conspicuous performance. Here we have the practice of religious activity for the sake of showing off. There are those who like to be socially conspicuous and are willing to use the church services for this purpose only, or mainly. The overplay on fine clothes, the arrogant snobbery so prevalent in some churches, the tendency on the part of a few to monopolize class discussions and to even seek church positions; all of these are examples. Conspicuous performance in church programs is immoral because it distorts true religion and makes of it a mere technique for social intercourse and selfish display. (4) Hypocrisy. The opportunists and the conspicuous performers are also hypocrites, but there are other varieties as well. Whenever preachments fail to square fundamentally with practice, or Sunday manners do not conform to week-day performances, the person is a hypocrite, for he seeks to deceive. 141 Piety alone is hypocrisy, for it leads to neither spirituality nor righteousness. Sometimes hypocrisy is caused by sinister motives, as indicated above, but often, too, it results from a simple desire for a social approval or a weakness in carrying out good intentions. (For a good scriptural passage on hypocrisy see Matt. 6:1-18.) (5) Sterile orthodoxy. We do not imply by this term that orthodoxy itself is wrong. As a matter of fact, those Latter-day Saints who are completely orthodox will accept the dynamic principle of creative expression and progression along with the idea of obedience to specific commandments. (See Doc. And Cov. 58:26-29. Refer also to the third Social Science lesson for last year, "The Road to Righteousness," and particularly to that section of it called "Obedience plus." ) It is when orthodoxy becomes sterile that it is wrong; when it is satisfied with mechanical conformity alone; when it stifles the divine spark in man, the creative urge, and makes of him a mere robot or puppet that can be pushed around. Sometimes people lose the real spirit and substance of religion by overstressing mechanical adherence to its forms alone. ("The letter killeth, but the spirit giveth life.'?II Corinthians 3:6.) (6) Fanaticism. This refers to a lack of balance in religious perspective; a tendency to be dogmatic, narrow, and oppressive. Religion to be valuable should harmonize with life. We can have tolerance without indifference; broadmindedness without shallow-mindedness; conviction without fanaticism?and we should have. There is little room in real religion for the narrow bickerings and the dogmatic assertions that sometimes find expression within the portals of the church. (7) Passivism. This is the practice of taking religion passively, of being a member of the church but not doing anything about it, of remaining inactive and indifferent. To be really effective religion must be of the active variety. There are sins of omission as well as commission, and to get the most out of the church one must participate in its programs. It will be a sad day for many when they look back and realize "what might have been." Church membership can and should mean much more to the individual than passive convenience or expediency. (8) Crisis religion. Closely related to passivism is the practice of turning to the church only when in trouble. Coming out of World War II is the statement that "There are no atheists in foxholes." It is good that men will usually turn to God when their backs are against the wall, so to speak, but it is unfortunate that they don't turn to him more at other times. A religion that is based primarily upon fear tends to motivate worship in times of crisis only, and because of this it fails to lift men to the greater joys that life has to offer. (g) Compartmentalism. Religion to be effective should be integrated with total life. But with many, unfortunately, it is kept as an undigested segment of life, good for Sunday but impractical for any wider application. Men too often compartmentalize their lives; pigeonhole their morals; segregate their principles and practices. Theology is too often divorced from practical present-day application. Spirituality is too often missed. Religion should be taught more in terms of life. The church should be a vital part of every community, willingly and actively engaged in the war against sin and injustice as they exist today. (10) Institutionalism. Sometimes we err by shifting too much attention from the individual to the church; by emphasizing the church for its own sake with little thought of the people it is to serve; by over standardizing worship and morals. When Jesus said "The sabbath was made for man, and not man for the sabbath" (Mark 2:27), he might just as well have said "The church was made for man and not man for the church." All institutions are made for man, and when they cease to serve him they end their usefulness. It is dangerous to promote any institution for its own sake. Religious programs should spring from the interests and the needs of the people more than they sometimes do; there is no virtue in putting over a program for its own sake. Records should be emphasized less and actual achievement more; there is no real value in a "one-hundred per cent" achievement record unless it stands for work well done. It is the people who are important, more than the institution, and the programs and measuring devices used should always be constructed with their welfare in mind. Moral Guides for Modern Saints Being a Latter-day Saint is a good guarantee of righteous living. The great moral principles of the ages are entirely compatible with the teachings of Mormonism, and the visions of truth and eternity which Mor- 142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?FEBRUARY 1946 LESSON DEPARTMENT monism supplies are enough to inspire man and call forth the best that is in him. But being 4 Latter-day Saint means more than just having your name on the books, more even than obeying blindly the letter of the law. It means honesty based upon truth and intelligence, industry based upon activity and effort, and justice based upon love and courage. Being a good Latter-day Saint means living righteously in every sense of the word. With a love for God and a desire for righteousness, modern saints should strive for the good life in all of its aspects, including the following: Eternal joy in place of sensual pleasure Struggle and growth rather than immediate comfort Responsible freedom rather than reckless license Honesty in place of expediency Truth instead of proof Right instead of might Principle rather than profit Vitality instead of conformity alone Courage in place of cowardice Conviction without intolerance Tolerance without indifference Love in place of hate Optimism instead of pessimism Faith instead of skepticism In concluding this lesson series, let us resolve to live above the petty and 143 the commonplace; to be large in vision and big in soul; to look up, and laugh, and love, and climb, and fight, and do. Let us resolve to devote all our might for the right. Problems for Thought and Action 1, Explain the phrase "soul erosion"; ""unpublished casualty lists." What are the three approaches that can be made to truth? Why is it a mistake to exclude any one of them? Show how a denial of religion can lead to both error and immorality. What is meant by the "fringe of righteousness'? Show how religion to some is a mere verbalism; a Sunday mannerism, Why must real religion be more than these? What is meant by "religious carry-over'? Discuss each of the ten religious perversions outlined in the lesson. Do you agree Or disagree with these points? Why or why not? Selected References Standard Works: Bible: Joshua 24:15; I Samuel 16:7; Proverbs 28:1; Matthew 5:6; 6:1-18; Mark 2:23-28; John 7:24; II Corinthians 3:2-6. Book of Mormon: II Nephi 1:23; 27:25; 28. Doc. And Cov. 58:26-29; 121:33-43- Books by L. D. S. Authors: TALMAGE, JAMES, The Vitality of Mormonism (Boston: Gorham Press, 1919), "Religion and Daily Life," pp. 193- 196; "The Glory of God Is Intelligence," pp. 276-285; "Ethics and Religion," pp. 324-330- BENNION, MILTON, Moral Teachings of the New Testament (Salt Lake City, Utah: Deseret Book Co., 1928), Part II, "The Moral Standards of the New Testament," Pp- 39-92: Se Page 144  STAR IN HER WINDOW Ruth H. Chadwick She looked beyond the silhouette of trees, Those blackened forms against a studded sky; A waning winter moon, now cupped, spilled seas Of fluorescent light to vivify The calm and tranquil pattern stars must live. They twinkled unperturbed, aloof, secure; Out there was peace, no man-made force to sieve The souls of men, and leave their goals obscure; No treachery, fomenting underneath, Would change their ways, now eons old and tried; They lighted up the infinite's great wreath Of circling firmament at eventide. For myriads can live in harmony, The stars would show the way that all might see. She looked beyond the view of naked eye, Around the globe's great seething holocaust; Hell's bursting fury, rockets in the sky, Rained death below; the red and deafening blast Of force was everywhere; decay and rot Attacked the brave and good with poisoned dart. And some of her was out there, too! The thought Set tingling echoes pounding in her heart. With hope and faith she touched the fringe that framed Her star; an earthly painted satellite, Devoid of warmth or glow, it mutely claimed To share the world's mad chaos, greed and spite. But this she knew, her star would prove its worth, And win the right to signal "Peace on earth." National BIBLES ? KING JAMES VERSION There's one to meet almost every Bible need of young or old ? student or teacher. Look for the National trade-mark before you buy. It identifies a book you can be proud to give ? or to get. SINCE 1863... AT YOUR BOOKSTORE MUSIC SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY I LOVE A LITTLE COTTAGE.., 15 FLAG WITHOUT A STAIN (White) 5 BLESS THIS HOUSE. 15 GOD IS LOVE (Shelley) ALICE BLUE GOWN (Tiersney) 20 PEACE ILEAVE WITH YOU (Roberts) 10 Above numbers in octavo. Less 10% discount, plus postage. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 47 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 price of only... 44 East South Temple Just Received... LATEST COMPLETELY REVISED EDITION BARTLETT'S FAMILIAR QUOTATIONS Edited by CHRISTOPHER MORLEY and LOUELLA D. EVERETT Priced regularly at $5 through many printings, this beautiful eleventh edition, with twice as many quotations as heretofore, is offered at the very special "Everyone who puts words on paper for others to read, everyone who speaks to an audience, even though it be an audience of three, needs 'Bartlett.' " ORDER YOUR COPY NOW! DESERET BOOK COMPANY "The Book Center of the Intermountain West" P, O. Box 958 mt he Salt Lake City 10 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine U. S. POSTAGE 2c Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 Are your children secure against the financial hazards of the future? Wise parents know that life insurance provides an income when earnings stop. BENEFFICIAL LI LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY HOME LIFE BUILDING SALT LAKE City 1. UTAH GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. PRESIDENT BAG A 2715 VOL. 33 NO 3 MARCH 1946 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - President Maryanne C. Sharp - - - First Counselor Gertrude R. Garti - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Anna B. Hart Florence J. Madsen Blanche B. Stoddard Mary G. Judd Edith S. Elliott Ann P, Nibley Evon W. Peterson Luella N. Adams Priscilla L. Evans Leone G. Layton Leone O. Jacobs Velma N. Simonsen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Editorial Secretary - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Vol. 33 - MARCH 1946 No. 3 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES Relief Society and the Future 2... Leah D. Widtsoe 147 A Few of Our Gifted Utah Women. Artists?Part III Alice Merrill Horne 151 The First Easter?A Fantasy = a Evelyn Wooster Viner 156 An Open Door to Happiness 222... Wilford D. Lee 162 Our Parks and Playgrounds Fred Tedesco 166 The Clouded Window ?? _. Caroline Eyring Miner 172 Lady-in-Waiting Marguerite J. Griffin 203 FICTION All Is Known?Third Prize Story Irva Pratt Andrus 157 Prelude to Spring........ Beatrice Rordame Parsons 173 Even the Frail Christie Lund Coles 186 The Best Little Shrub Mabel Harmer 192 And For Eternity?Chapter 10 (Conclusion)---- Olive Woolley Burt 198 GENERAL FEATURES 168 . Ramona W. Cannon 169 Editorials: ''A Thing of Beauty is a Joy Forever' Gertrude R. Garff 170 New Serial to Begin in April Notes From the Field: Messages From the Missions (Continued) General Work Meeting: Save Those Precious Scraps -SONG POETRY Renewal?Frontispiece ?.......Alice Morrey Bailey 145 Her Staff a ?? Hortense Spencer Andersen 150 The Difference 2... Cleo Gordon 155 Easter Lily ~...... Evel Fjelsted 161 Late Motherhood..........-.-..------------ Eva Willes Wangsgaard 165 Remember Love. Anna Prince Redd 171 Lesson. Katherine Fernelius Larsen 180 Lesson Roberta Bates 185 She Hangs the Linen on the Line Dott J. Sartori 196 Call of Spring -...-............. Beatrice K. Ekman 202 Springtime in the West: Lydia Hall 205 March Promises..Aileen M. Overfelt 215 New Things.....Watson Anderson 216 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10ce. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 74,000 Thrift Begins In The Garde 20. Vesta P. Crawford 181 Eleanor Welch Schow 196 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE RENEWAL THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 33, NO 3 MARCH 1946 Alice Morrey Bailey The cleaning wind of March is riding high And jubilant across the smoke-thinned town. Before his cutting breath, the ice flows down; Beneath him, mud-choked streams go swirling by. He sweeps exuberant clouds across the sky, While swelling earth appears in naked brown, And timidly puts forth her new green gown. And with the wind there comes the wild bird's cry. Swing wide your doors and windows, oh, my soul, Long closed against the stinging winter's blast; Look far in heaven's blue inverted bowl. Let light and laughter wash you clean at last, Remove all petty hurts and nurtured pain, And let eternal springtime in again. E The Cover: 'Dry Valley," the desert between Moab and Monticello, Utah. Photograph by Willard Luce. VOL. 33, NO. 3 MARCH 1946 "SINGLE ROSES" From a Water Color by Artemesia R. Romney Relief Society and the Future Leah D. Widtsoe FAMILY life is best lived when man and wife form a real partnership, each pulling an equal share of the load and sharing equally in responsibility. It would be unfair and results would be far from happy if the man received most of the advantages and possessed any great gift from which his life partner were excluded. This is especially the case if the exclusion is simply because she is a woman. A Glimpse Into the Past When the true Church of Christ was restored through the instrumentality of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the equal rights of men and women on earth and before God were assured. From the first, women were asked to exercise their religious franchise, the same as were the male members. Their votes in sustaining officers were accepted as were men's, and that practice continues to this day. 'The great and primal right of free agency belongs to all God's children?to his daughters as well as to his sons. In order to give women greater opportunities for progress, the Relief Society was organized through inspiration by the Prophet Joseph Smith on March 17, 1842. It was organized to "purge out iniquity" from their midst, but always to be "armed with mercy" in pursuance of their righteous labors. And, while the purpose which caused the sisters to want an organization was the desire to aid the poor and needy, yet the Prophet greatly enlarged its scope by declaring: "The Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls." 'This incentive should stimulate the women of the Church to be active in this Society and to carry on incessantly. When the priesthood was restored, it was bestowed on all the righteous male members of the Church, but the blessings accruing therefrom are for the benefit of all Church members, men, women, and children. This is a wise provision, for as the mothers of men, potential or actual, women have a calling which is so time-and-energy consuming that added duties would be burdensome. In one of the Prophet's instructive discourses to the sisters, "he spoke of delivering the keys of the Priesthood to the Church, and said that the faithful members of the Relief Society should receive them in connection with their husbands, that the Saints whose integrity has been tried and proved faithful, might know how to ask the Lord and. Receive an answer" (D. H. C. Vol. IV, page 604). The sisters should accept this as a challenge to be wise and circumspect, and truly in harmony with God's laws and ordinances, or they may lose this precious gift. At another time the Prophet stated to the sisters: "I now turn the key in your behalf, in the name of the Lord, and this society shall rejoice, and knowledge and _intelligence shall flow down from this Page 147 148 time henceforth." This glorious promise is for us today, as well as for the women of the past, and should stimulate every woman in this Church to participate in the activities of Relief Society. The Present Speaks That the women of the Church have profited and do appreciate these blessings is proven by the continual growth of the Society. From the original eighteen members at the organization meeting, it has grown to a membership of over 102,000, with active groups in most of the civilized countries of the world today. The program includes the provision for the mental and spiritual growth of the members, as well as for the care of the poor or ill or needy in any way. The promise of the Founder is being fulfilled! But growth and Church membership demand progress. What of the Future? And now to us all today comes the challenge of the Future! What may we, the members of Relief Society do to help heal our sick and war-torn world? How it needs the administrations of the Great Physician, the Father of us all! I often wonder whether the women of the world, and especially of this Church, really understand the great power that they possess. If every mother were to impress upon her young and growing child that to love is so much more fun than to hate, that men are essentially good and are intended to love righteousness, and that everyone's difficulty may be settled by finding out what is right and then doing it?if that could be done, then wars would be impossible. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 The mother has this definite responsibility, because through nature it is she who gives birth to and nurtures the child most closely during his early formative years, when his character for his entire future life is being formed. There are two great truths with vast implications that all should understand: (1) all great causes have small beginnings; (2) a chain is no stronger than its weakest link. The mightiest rivers on earth have their beginnings hundreds of miles away in the tiniest trickle from a melting snowbank. Many of these "trickles" unite to form a rivulet, many rivulets make a stream, the streams make a river, and many rivers uniting form the mighty Mississippi, Amazon, and Volga rivers, with their majestic power. Similarly there is an ultimate beginning of every war, and it is in the homes in which the children of men are reared?in your home and mine and all the countless homes of earth. The individual home may be likened to the tiny trickle which begins the mighty river. If a child is loved and cared for and understood from infancy, and all his problems met with fairness and justice by wise parents, he grows up with faith in his playmates and later in his fellow men, prepared to expect and to give justice and mercy 'in all his dealings in later life. These are undoubtedly the "men (and women) of good will" of whom the angels sang on the first Christmas morn when they promised peace! On the other hand, if a busy, distracted, selfish, untrained, wrongly brought-up mother, or father, treats the child with unfairness, punishes him unjustly (as the child feels), RELIEF SOCIETY AND THE FUTURE | and fails to give time and patience and love enough to understand him and his problems, even though they think they love him, then this child is very likely to grow to maturity feeling that the world is unjust, that evil is everywhere. He is sure to feel that only he succeeds who looks out for himself, and it does not matter what happens to anyone else so long as he gets what he wants. Such a child grows to maturity with a burning determination to "get even," to get revenge for the wrongs he feels were innocently forced upon him. That is but human. Of such children grow the future overlords, dictators, and all their kind who think might is right, and any means justify getting the power to rule others. War will cease only when men learn from infancy the power of love, justice, and the true worth of all God's children on earth, with their right to "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." The first and greatest teachers of these noble truths are the mothers of men; they can be ingrained into one's character in no other way. When the chain of world peace is forged, it can be no stronger than the men and women who have come from homes such as yours and mine with their determination, OT lack of it, to be truly "men of good will." to place on the shoulders of the mothers of men. Indeed, it is too big a job to be left to chance. Motherhood is indeed and should be the greatest of all professions, for its results are far-reaching and 149 tremendously important. Yet this profession is practically the only one today which is ignored, as such, by our schools, colleges, and universities. One must be trained for any and every other profession?even for trimming fingernails of curling hair ?and especially for the "fine art" (?) of killing one's fellow men, women, and children! The tremendous increase in juvenile delinquency and crime ls rightly laid, as first cause, to faulty or broken homes, and they are surely the result of ignorant and untrained mothers and fathers?but especially mothers. Yet, what are we doing to make better mothers? Girls should learn the technique of homemaking. To trust to home training or instinct is not enough?in too many cases it is negligible. The condition of the world today proves this to be true. This, then, may be one of the greatest opportunities for the active endeavor of every mother of Zion: to work for better motherhood in the Society and to demand special intensive training in homemaking and parenthood in all our schools, even in the grades?for many girls do not reach high school or college.. This training should be as fundamental as the "Three R's." Its neglect can bring greater disaster to the entire human race. Our Relief Society program has included instruction for better motherhood and such training will be continued. Are we doing all we can in the Society,: n the communities, as in our homes, to inculcate justice, fairness, and nobility into the lives of our children and their friends? Are we making our convictions known so that our schools and other agencies will 150 provide training for parenthood and homemaking for every boy and girl in the land? If the hundred thousand voices of Relief Society are raised in any cause, they are sure to be heard. The second century of Relief Society will have many tasks for our willing hearts and hands, but surely this is one way of meeting the needs of the hour and extending our usefulness for world betterment. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 Our Heavenly Father will help us in this great task, if we ask him, and activate the truths he has given for our guidance in the gospel of Jesus Christ. This is but one way we may fulfill truly our destiny as members of this great God-given Relief Society! HER STAFF Hortense Spencer Anderson The years had brought despair, and vicious sting Of loneliness and want; yet she toiled long For many others, always mastering Herself, and in return her faith grew strong. With service, she had won serenity Like cool, refreshing shade on a summer lake Surrounding her, she the willow tree, Which trembled in the storm, but did not break. And then, as if outraged, in jealous mood, That she should stand with grace and fortitude, The storm redoubled; in fury the lightning flared; And she lay ravaged by grief and pain, ensnared. Grief and pain, because she now was blind. No more could she behold this wonderland, Nor toil for others, seeking through the grind To mend.... What had she left to help her stand? Bereft of sons and home, in woe complete, She asked, "Is there a staff within my scope, Or was it for this chastening defeat Time led me through delusive fields of hope?" She found her staff, made ready, on the shelf Of tested treasures, where it had always lain, Unbroken, guarded still, within herself. Her staff of faith would help her rise again. A Few of Our Gifted Utah Women Artists Alice Merrill Horne Former Member Relief Society General Board PART III Note: Part I of this series appeared in December 1944, and Part II in January 1945 EACH year it has been my cherished privilege to introduce at least two young would-be-artists with a one-man show at Z. C. M. I. The latest addition to the ranks of our artist colony is Maude Maye Nebeker, whose work already reveals strength, courage, and a good selection of subjects. You will like her work. Mrs. Nebeker's husband is the son of my old friend Aquilla Nebeker, the President of the Senate while I served in the Third Legislature as a representative. But once, instead of choosing a young artist, I happened on a lady of dignity and charm who had been painting around for years. 'That is how, at sixty-six years young, Artemesia Redd Romney had her first exhibition at Z. C. M. I. Tiffin Room. Mrs. Romney has mothered ten "GARDENIAS"?Bessie Alice Bancroft Page 151 152 children besides looking after many missionary lads. Indeed, she has the ease and grace of the mother of a battalion. Her life story reads like the book of fate. Of late, the whole world has been celebrating V-J Day, August 14. Artemesia Redd first saw the light August 14, 1874. The parents, Lemuel Hardison and Louisa Chamberlain Redd, were pioneers of experience. Louisa was born in Salt Lake City in the early 1849's. Her father, Solomon Chamberlain, was one of the original pioneer company of 1847. The Redd family was called by Brigham Young to establish New Harmony in Washington County in Southern Utah. Lemuel Redd was a sheep rancher. Louisa Redd reared twelve sons and daughters to manhood and womanhood. Artemesia, the eldest daughter, became an expert baby tender. She was habitually creating pictures with any mediums at hand. Even that did not prevent this ambitious girl from helping her mother to reel yarn, card wool, spin, and knit her own stockings. Artemesia went to school until she was thirteen years of age. At this period the family moved to Bluff, San Juan County. Next they moved to Old Mexico when the subject of our sketch drove the team much of the way to Colonia Juarez where the Redd family settled. In Juarez, Artemesia met her future mate, George S. Romney, to whom she was married December 5, 1894. Mr. Romney, a carpenter and builder, had larger ambitions. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 He was very studious and worked for years taking out his Master's and Doctor's degrees, after the family was driven out of Mexico by the Mexican rebels. Seven children had been born to them in Mexico and three others were added in Los Angeles and Oakley, Idaho. In Salt Lake City, and later in Chicago, Mr. Romney pursued his education. For thirteen years at Cassia Academy, Oakley, Idaho, while her husband served as president, Artemesia studied courses in art. While her husband studied at the University of Chicago, Mrs. Romney painted pictures. Her husband then was chosen head of the Northern States Mission. Responsibility doubled on this, our artist, as she mothered missionaries and supervised thirty Relief Societies. In the midst of this exacting work, her husband passed away. Upon the death of her mate, she plunged into painting for relief and comfort. At Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, Mrs. Romney studied under B. F. Larsen and Verla Birrell. In Kaysville, she continued under Le Conte Stewart. Finally, she returned to the Art Students' League in Chicago where she prepared to exhibit her water colors. On her return home, at the age of sixty-six, Artemesia Redd Romney saw her work hung at the Z. C. M. I. Tiffin Room in a one-man show. So this intrepid pioneer woman is busy painting exquisite pictures of flowers. BESSIE ALICE BANCROFT, former art instructor at West High School and Horace Mann School, died last May 23d at fifty-eight years of age. UTAH WOMEN ARTISTS "COTTONWOOD CANYON"?Maude Maye Nebeker With a powerful mentality, though a weak body, she accomplished very much, seeking to in spite young people to love and understand the beautiful. Each year of her many years of service, Bessie would be found at a university devoting her vacation to study and travel, At the time of her passing she had almost completed her Master's degree. 154 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 The school collection at Horace Mann was the first to be established in a Utah junior high school and was eventually named the Bessie Alice Bancroft Collection. Bessie cast her bread upon the waters. May it long continue to return and enrich those in whom she sought to create a love for and understanding of the fine arts. "PATH TO PEACE"?Alta Margene Stirk UTAH WOMEN ARTISTS ALTA MARGENE STIRK ALTA MARGENE STIRK is a beautiful young woman, daughter of an artist mother. She was presented in her first one-man show at Z.C.M.I. Tiffin Room, November 1945. The collection portrayed a variety of art interests. Flowers, the moods of spring, early autumn, and November are revealed in twenty-five water colors by Mrs. Stirk. Her study has covered Utah and the Northwest and her teachers have been Le Conte Stewart, Paul Smith, Joseph A. F. Everett, and others. Mrs. Stirk's husband has served our country in the South Pacific for three years and is now stationed at Fort Douglas."CONTRASTS" Alta Margene  THE DIFFERENCE Cleo Gordon A black wind shrieked, but you and I Went out to battle with heads held high; And fighting through it, arm in arm, Found weird beauty in the storm. Today I watch in sheltered pain Frail flowers whipped by driving rain; Now, fearfully, I shrink to see How wild and bitter a storm can be. The First Easter A Fantasy Evelyn Wooster Viner
THE lush grass ran in rippling waves before the whispering breeze. Unyielding spikes of hyacinths starred the shimmering green, and heavy-headed daffodils gleamed golden and nodded with each undulation. Dew-diamonds trembled on leaf and blade and melted into prismatic color.
In the lovely garden of Joseph of Arimathea birds welcomed the new Sabbath with a burst of song. Into the peace and quiet of the garden came a woman bearing in her hands a box. Her voluminous robe brushed the wet grasses bordering the path and tumbled a multitude of the translucent jewels to the moist earth where they at once disappeared, their brief beauty gone.
The sweetness of her face was accentuated by a sadness which deepened as the path neared the sepulchre that had been hewn from the solid outcropping of rock which showed where the hill veered sharply skyward.
Preoccupied with her own sad thoughts, she noticed nothing wrong until the trail ended under the ancient olive tree whose glossy leaves drooped in silent benediction above the tomb.
Now, however, she saw that the great rock which had so carefully been sealed into the opening was rolled back and the cavelike place yawned vacantly. Peering into it, she perceived that it was indeed empty. Fear and wonder were written on her face, and turning she ran swiftly away, her robe fluttering wildly.
After a short interval she reappeared, accompanied by two men. Both men entered the sepulchre, but, finding it empty, they soon went away, but the woman stood weeping under the olive tree.
As she was turning away, she saw a man whom she mistook for the gardener, and when he inquired the cause of her distress she said pleadingly, "Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away."
What a wealth of tenderness he condensed in that one word, "Mary." With a glad cry of recognition she threw herself at his feet. To Mary Magdalene's joy and wonder, the resurrection had been accomplished, and as she bowed in reverence it seemed as if the sun shone a little brighter, the birds sang a little louder?and why not? It was only fitting that all nature should celebrate the first Easter day. Page 156 Proverbs 16:7. Third Prize Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest All Is Known Irva Pratt Andrus LIKE the winged seeds of the dandelion, the word was wafted over the land. In the village of Bethany, Sarah, the daughter of the widow, Tabitha, heard it, too. At first she paid scant attention to the strange tales, "Did you hear that at Capernaum a centurion's servant, sick these many years, was healed of Palsy by this Carpenter of Nazareth?" "Did you know that it is said two blind men could see as well as anyone after this man Jesus touched their eyes?" "Did you hear? Did you hear?" Everywhere, of a sudden, people were talking of strange happenings in the land about the Sea of Galilee. Must the only daughter of a poor widow, Sarah heard these things, and gradually she became filled with a great need to know more of this man of Nazareth. Now she paused often in the shadows before the inn to hear the latest word of Passing travelers, "Never have I heard such doc. Trine," one dusty traveler said. "He was in Galilee and great multitudes of people were gathered about listening. IRVA PRATT ANDRUS Do you know what he said? He said, 'Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of meek would inherit "I was there, too," traveler, "and he looked down at us, but he said, plain as anything: ?Ye world." "Whence hath this man this wisdom and these mighty works?" many asked, Page 157 158 Whence, indeed, thought Sarah. I wish he would come to Bethany. Perhaps he could heal Tabitha of the swelling and pains in her arms and legs and take the tired look of suffering from her face. Perhaps he could cure Simon, who is good and wise even though a leper. Perhaps? oh, there was so much to do in Bethany. So much to do in Bethany for all the poor, the sick, the lame, the blind, and so much to do for Sarah. She was ashamed of the thought. She, who was young and strong, who often heard those less fortunate call after her: "Bless you, my child," and yet she was so desperately in need of help. Deeply hidden, where others could not know, a great bitterness and discontent had been growing for many weeks within her. Sometimes she saw it reflected in her eyes as she stooped to draw water from the well, and she was afraid; afraid that Tabitha, who was so patient and good, would some day see it and be hurt by it. When trying to think back to find when this terrible thing within her had begun, Sarah thought it must have been when she first began to notice the tired, drawn look upon her mother's face. Tabitha was so good, so kind, so generous, and yet she must suffer so. Together they scarcely were able to earn a bare existence, and each time Sarah carried a bowl of soup or a morsel of food to others she knew that Tabitha would say she was not hungry when evening came. All this, and more, of need Sarah knew, and yet often on the road to Jerusalem she saw gay and laughing people dressed in rich robes and followed by numbers of slaves. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 Upon the masters' hands and about their throats were shining jewels, and they were rude and haughty to any who chanced to be at the well as they drew up. Here, in the village of Bethany, daily she saw the rich and she knew the poor. This, and many small things, fed the discontent within Sarah. She could not know of what all the bitterness was made. Of what value the many tasks she must do daily if they led only to old age, to disease, to poverty? Why should bright jewels and jingling coins make such a difference? "This Jesus cares nothing for money or goods." one traveler said. "He got Matthew, who was a receiver of customs, to leave everything and follow him." What could he have said to Matthew? Was there an answer to all the suffering and struggling that piled up into days? Did he tell Matthew something that made security and comfort seem as nothing? "What does he look like?" many asked. What would such a man look like. Sarah felt that she must know. Some day she must see this Jesus, for perhaps he knew the answer to the hopelessness and fear within her. Some day he may come to Bethany, she thought. Perhaps she would meet him on her way to the well, or by the olive grove where she watched the sunset when she was not needed by Tabitha. At the thought she felt breathless and frightened. She had heard that he answered great multitudes freely, and they were strangely comforted. Word had come that Jesus had even quieted a storm upon the Sea of Galilee; perhaps he could still the storm of doubt and discontent within her. ALL IS KNOWN ONCE it was rumored that Jesus was, indeed, coming to Bethany, but Sarah was kept close at home with the sickness of Tabitha who was at times unable to move from her bed. For days she administered to the needs of her mother, and in her solicitude almost forgot the coming of Jesus. When Tabitha was well enough for Sarah to once more go about the village, she learned that Jesus had been to Bethany. He had been to the house of Simon and had cured him of his leprosy. Sarah could scarcely believe that he had come and gone. She went to see Simon to hear from his own lips of this Jesus of Nazareth. "Yes, my child, indeed he was here." The old man was fairly bouncing with excitement. "Oh, Sarah, you never have heard such doctrine." Sarah listened to all that the villagers had to say of Jesus and his teachings, and still the turmoil was with her. Her sleep now became troubled with strange dreams. Often she dreamed that she was old and sick, and that Tabitha was gone, and all the rich people were riding wildly around her shouting taunts at her. In her unhappiness she thought of going out upon the road in search of Jesus, but the thought of Tabitha tugged at her heart. She could not leave her mother. She must wait until he came. Nearly three years had passed since the first word had come to the village of the work of Jesus, and as 159 the third springtime touched the hills about Bethany, travelers again brought word that this man who had so moved the people throughout the land, was on his way to Jerusalem. At evening Sarah went to the house of Simon. Had he seen Jesus? Was he coming to Bethany? "I am afraid for him," Simon said, shaking his shaggy head. "He is even now in Jerusalem, and the chief priests will do all they can to destroy him, my child." "Destroy Jesus?" Sarah was unbelieving. "He does only good to the people. Why should the priests want to destroy him?" "Why, indeed," answered Simon, "because too many people are beginning to want to live as he teaches, that's why, Sarah. Did you not hear he has even driven the moneychangers from the Temple and declared that it is to be a house of prayer? The priests cannot fill their moneybags with prayers." "Did he? Did he, really?" Sarah cried. "When will he come again to Bethany?" She could scarcely hide the trembling that had come upon her. "At any hour, Sarah girl, at any hour!" the old man replied. At any hour! Perhaps even now he neared the village. With urgent haste Sarah left the house of Simon. Half running, she took the winding path toward the olive groves. The sun was lingering upon the edge of a distant slope, sending forth long shoots of light to push against the persistent shadows slipping among the trees, when Sarah sat down to watch the road from Jerusalem. The dustv green of the 160 olive trees was softened contrast for the blossoms of the almond trees nearby; the ground was smooth with the softness of emerald shoots stretching upward. Intently Sarah watched; she must not miss Jesus this time. Even as she waited her fear was close beside her. What could he say to her? What could he do to change this hard ball of bitterness and discouragement? "Sarah," said a voice so close beside her that, startled, she sprang to her feet. Such a deep, rich voice she had never heard before. How had he come upon her so quietly? How had he known her name? The sunrays were full upon his face as she looked at him; he seemed as no other man she had ever seen. His eyes had such a steadiness within them, yet he looked very tired. "Why fret you, Sarah?" His words were like music of running RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 water. "All is known to your Father in heaven." Sarah did not answer; instead she dropped her eyes and her breath swelled within her. How could he know? Yet she. Was sure that he did know. All that was within her heart of doubt, of fear, of hurt, of defeat, he knew. Other words he spoke, and as she listened it was as if the strange radiance of the sunset were melting away her bitterness. What his words were, Sarah could never recall afterwards, but she knew that they were peace, courage, and hope. When he left her Sarah stood very still watching as he went down the winding path. The last strong rays of the sun glowed around him, and to her it seemed that his robe was Of shining gold. Into the house of Tabitha, in the town of Bethany, she carried a warm bright reflection. Irva Pratt Andrus, Provo, Utah, is the wife of the artist, J. Roman Andrus of Brigham Young University faculty. Mrs. Andrus, daughter of Orson W. And Emma J. Pratt, was born in Kanab, Utah, and attended Dixie Junior College in St. George. She is the mother of four young children. Her literary work has appeared in The Relief Society Magazine, the Improvement Era, the Children's Friend, in the poetry anthology Utah Sings, and several of her poems have been read over the radio. At present she is working on a biography of Jim Andrus, Dixie pioneer stockman. A devoted Relief Society worker, Mrs. Andrus is now a member of Utah Stake Relief Society Board, acting as Visiting Teachers' Messages Leader. She writes: "You may be interested in knowing that the story 'All Is Known' began to take form last winter as I prepared the Teachers' Messages lesson on the Beatitudes." If all the countries would accept the Sermon on the Mount as their common denominator there would be no more wars, and troubles between nations would cease. ?Honorable Louis Ludlow of Indiana, from a speech in the House of Representatives, November 12, 1945. EASTER LILY Evelyn Fjelsted We stand in breathless awe before The Easter lily now in bloom; In silence it has long designed To glorify our living room. The bulb, so still, a secret held? A secret of a coming dawn, A proof of life renewed where once Another bloom had come and gone. "They toil not, neither do they spin," And yet a king was not arrayed Like one of these whose royalty Presents a roseate parade. Each lily seems to hold a scroll That tells in sweet humility, The story written in a bulb? A treatise on eternity. "CONSIDER THE LILIES" From a Painting by LeJeune A Perry Picture Page 16] An Open Door to Happiness Wilford D. Lee FROM the time that the boy first tastes great juicy apples from his father's orchard, and plays hide-and-seek in the gigantic sweet clover which grows between the trees, to the time that he comes into manhood, he becomes more and more convinced that God made this unusual world as a place to be enjoyed. Because the boy was raised on a farm he came in contact with nature early, and as far back as he can remember, these contacts have been pleasant. Moreover, the things which were pleasant when they were experienced have continued to give him joy when the experience itself is gone. It is interesting to step inside the boy's mind and find what is stored there?to see how the sights and sounds and tastes and smells of natural life help to give the man happiness. His father was a beekeeper who placed his hives on the sunny southwest slopes of those low Idaho hills just east of the upper Snake River. When the spring came the boy was chosen, because of a special skill, to stay near the apiary and watch for swarms. The boy had learned to whistle, but not in the little girls' way, nor in the manner of the bird imitator. His whistle was a loud and lusty blast, a piercing sound which, on a clear day, could be heard half a mile away. What marvelous beauties he experienced on those first warm days of spring! He lay on his back with his hat over his eyes, there on the Page 162 sun-splashed hillside, soaking in the warmth which so long, through the winter months, had been denied. And even with his eyes shut, he could tell what was going on in the valley below him. Just a few rods away, the canal skirted the hill, and in the willows that fringed its banks, the red-winged blackbirds caroled their melodious harmony. In the silences, when they flew away, the boy could hear his father plowing in the field below the canal, the steady squeak of stretching leather, the click of singletrees, the musical tinkle of chains, the rhythmical stamp of the horses' hoofs as they thrust their shoulders into the creaking collars, the scrape of the plow as it grated upon a rock. IN the lull of the noontide, when the horses were in the stable, and the birds were resting in the shade, the smell of wild things crept into the silences like shy welcome creatures which were always present, yet unnoticed in the medley of sound. The sweet damp earth steamed in the warmth of the strengthening sun; the rotting vegetation sent up the smell of ripe fertility; the plowed field exuded into the breeze its own particular smell of new-turned earth. The snowdrops, the sweet william, the docks, and the little snowballs all hinted at perfumes which could not be really smelled without picking the flower. AN OPEN DOOR TO HAPPINESS The newly opened leaves of the willow and the poplar mixed the scent of their sticky sap with the smell of dandelions and apple blossoms which was brought to the hill by the giant-legged bees, But all of these perfumes were drenched and strengthened by the sage which dashed its tangy perfume on every puff of the south wind. Into the drowsiness, just when the boy was farthest away in a sleepy ecstasy, the sound of the bees rose in quick crescendo, singing with a high whining hum; then he sat up to find that the bees were swarming. They poured from the hive like water from a break in the canal. The boy leaped to his feet, and cupping his hands to his mouth, sent forth his shrillest blast again and again until his throat pained him. The sound streaked away, like a stream of light, to the house a quarter of a mile away. The father, coming to the door, waved, then started at a trot for the hill. When the lad saw that the father had heard, he turned, and dipping up water, from tubs prepared beforehand, flung it into the air among the circling bees. By the time the father got there, the bees were clustering on a Sage or willow bush while the man squatted unveiled, breathing hard from his run up the hill, and tried to find the queen. Failing in that, he took the box of frames which the boy had brought, and shook the bees into it. This was the spice of life which made existence interesting. And a lazy life it was, for, although the child helped to capture hundreds of swarms, he has yet to see the vanguard of one issuing from the hive. Always he was too busy lying on his back, looking up into the clear blue sky, preoccupied with seeing, and smelling, and tasting, and feeling the joyous excitations of nature. Never 163 until the swarm was a spiraling, circling cyclone of life, did the boy realize that the bees were swarming. With the declining sun, a chill crept into the air, and the child awoke from his reverie, it was then that his senses became as acute as pain. He rose and shook himself into wakefulness, and started for the house. As he moved along, the evening robins filled his ears with chirping, but through the gaps in their song, he heard the wind whizz through the dry stems of last year's grass. The shadows gathered in purple splotches in unexpected places; the western horizon, lit up with reds and golds, sent aloft long fingers of light as if in thankfulness to God for the perfect day. The hum of all living things as they gathered in peace for the night, the tang of willow bark on the lad's tongue as he crossed the canal to the house, the Caress of the south wind as it swept his cheek, all moved and thrilled him as he ended his day. AND so it is that we love nature, and get joy from all her sounds and smells and delicate hues. Who can resist the splashing loveliness of a mountain stream as it dashes along its bed? It is like a mischievous boy whose play is never ended. We love to sit so close that the roar of it is in Our ears, and the splash of its spray is On our faces. It is abundantly true that from the nature which is intensely smelled, and tasted, and felt, we get one of the purest types of happiness; and not only happiness, but truth as well, for poets, and musicians, and artists everywhere come to nature for their inspiration; and Philosophers and Prophets use her 164 every mood as proof for their principles of right. Many of the experiences in nature are either painful or ludicrous; yet as they pass into the background of the mind, they lose their sting and remain in Our memories as sweet Or beautiful events. The lad came to know about cows in some such way. All his life he had been fond of milk, and when the old white-faced cow went dry, which seemed to him entirely too often, he stood at the house and looked up to the canal where the animal stood knee-deep in clover placidly chewing her cud, the picture of patient contentment. And then she calved. What rejoicings there were when the nine milkings had been fed to the pigs! Then, one day an older sister and brother took the lad out to see the new-born calf. The cow, which had always been so mild and docile, was feeding in the field. How were they to know that she would object to the sister's red dress? With a snort and a bellow she charged! And only by flying like the wind, whisking the child between them, did the brother and the sister save him. They popped into the honey house and slammed the door just as the old cow lunged against it. She bellowed and pawed the earth until the father came and drove her away. In somewhat the same way, the children came to know the habit patterns of geese. Certainly they should have known better, for they all had helped to pick the feathers from the birds at molting time. Woe to the person who let go of a wing. With the knobs of his pinions the goose can strike a blow like a prize fighter. One spring the old gray goose RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 laid her eggs in an overturned barrel. In the allotted time she brought out eight beautiful puffs of yellow down. How the children wanted to touch them as they followed their mother in military order to the water! One day the boy slipped up behind the old goose while she was feeding on the new green alfalfa, and caught a little gosling. Though he held it carefully, its cries brought the old goose charging. Such a beating fury hit his back and shoulders that he was knocked to the ground, where the old goose beat him and pulled his hair until the boy's mother, answering his screams, came and drove the old goose off and saved him from being completely gobbled up. It is said that happiness is dependent upon the possession of a certain amount of the physical comforts of life, such as food, clothing, shelter; yet it is surprising how many people have these things and yet are not happy. In fact, the overindulgence of the appetite in physical enjoyments is certain to bring weariness rather than the expected joy. The man who tastes lightly of the good things is the one who enjoys them most. With an appetite that is unsated, the person goes on through life, still enjoying, still experiencing keenly, still adding to the happiness which is already his. An appetite that is gorged, whether it be with food, or drink, or entertainment, can never give its owner a satisfying thrill of happiness. Thus, some of the most subtle experiences come from the stored images which, as Wordsworth says, "flash upon the inward eye, which is the bliss of solitude." The storing of the soul with beauty is the process by which real culture is accomplished. AN OPEN DOOR TO HAPPINESS The type of culture which grows from within is in abrupt contrast to the semi-polite veneer which can be, and often is, removed when the individual is away from the ones whom he wishes to impress. It is a type of inward training which makes "endless additions to itself..... Endless expansions to its posers..... Endless growth in wisdom and _ beauty." Such a culture is not having and resting, but growing and becoming. It is an idea of perfection which is totally at variance with the ideas of culture which a material and a mechanical civilization gives us. The time may come when materialistic people will completely satisfy their desire for things, for gadgets, for machines, and for new inventions. In that time when their desires are satisfied, when their appetites are surfeited with clothes, and automobiles, and houses, intelligent people will wake up to the fact that they have minds, and _ that, through the development of the mind, the greatest happiness can be achieved. 165 Yet the obtaining of happiness is a complex process, and cannot be completely accomplished with only one source. Joy is a stream which flows from many fountains, only one of which is the overflowing spring of stored-up beauty. Happiness comes also from the thrill of creation, whether that creation is a wicker basket or a Paradise Lost. And happiness comes from a sense of inner purity, a joyous oneness with God. The feeling of love for all the world steals in when sympathy replaces envy, when love replaces hate, when exquisite satisfaction follows a legitimate wish. LATE MOTHERHOOD Eva Willes Wangsgaard She has waited long for this Marvel of maternal bliss; Joy illumining her face Wells from love as deep as space. Here is proof that love can wreathe A room till you can feel it breathe; Rapt with joy, she has not heard Our steps. Retreat, without a word. Let no movement nor mischance Startle moth-winged radiance. Our Parks and Playgrounds Fred Tedesco Commissioner, Parks and Public Property, Salt Lake City, Utah (Prepared at the request of the Church Beautification Committee. THE concerted effort of every worthwhile and up-and-coming organization in Salt Lake City will be pointed toward the 1947 Centennial. This is a twelve-month celebration set aside to commemorate the arrival of the Mormon pioneers who suffered untold hardships and privations to reach this promised land. It is fitting, then, that our efforts be bent in preparation for a celebration worthy of their memory. The creed of the pioneer recognized the necessity of setting aside a certain portion of each day for the purpose of recreation. His day was a full one devoted to working, playing, sleeping, and a certain amount of time set aside for worship and prayer. The youth of our City are a living commemoration of the progeny of the Utah pioneers of one hundred years ago. The leaders of our community, as well as our mothers and fathers, have recognized the value of our young people and their need for play and recreation. Our playgrounds, parks, and other recreational facilities have been established to fill the leisure-time hours of our youth, as well as those of adults. Brigham Young designated certain areas to be set aside for parks and recreation. Liberty Park, Pioneer Park, and others still stand. His successors met new occasions as they Page 166 arose and established other parks to meet the current needs of their day in areas undesignated by him. Today, with the exception of one section, parks and playgrounds are well distributed throughout our City. Salt Lake City now has thirty-two playgrounds, of which twenty-five are supervised during the summer months by qualified recreational directors. Our community has eighteen beautiful and well-groomed parks, rated on a par with any city comparable in size in the United States and far surpassing at least seventy-five per cent of them. In these parks we have seven swimming pools, which are used and enjoyed by thousands of children and adults. Today, Salt Lake City is rated a national leader in boys' club and girls' club activities, having established and operated with increasing success five completely equipped and well-supervised boys' clubs and girls' clubs. 'These clubs have a present membership of 10,000 boys and girls. These, together with the parks described below, as well as specific facilities for every other recreational pursuit, stand in readiness to pay a worthy tribute to our courageous and far-sighted forefathers. OUR PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS 167 SWIMMING POOL AT FAIRMONT PARK, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH THE Tracy Aviary is one of the most outstanding bird sanctuaries in the United States. Its varied and complex collection of birds and small animals presents two hours of full and complete enjoyment to any visitor. Hogle Zoological Gardens situated at the mouth of the Emigration Canyon, where the pioneers made their dramatic entrance into this valley, is a picturesque setting for the lions, tigers, bears, and other large animals that live in pens depicting their natural habitat. This place is a definite source of education and interest, especially to the young people. Memory Grove Park, established to the memory of the fallen soldiers of World War One, is a beautiful spot to behold. It is placed on the canyon floor between two mountainous walls of well-shrubbed, grassy expanse. Mothers and loved ones of our fallen heroes gain much solace in its beauty and reverence. The three municipal golf courses, Nibley Park, Forest Dale, and Bonneville, whose grounds and fairways provide many happy hours to thousands of golfers each year, appeal to adults in preference to the youth. Down through the century, with inspiring zeal, the Mormon pioneer constructed, alongside every chapel, an edifice designed for recreation and amusement. Today, his descendant children, fully aware of his gift to them, live in fulfillment of this most cherished dream, among expansive provisions for their leisure-time moral and physical development. We Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, March 1 and March 15, 1886 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE Rights OF THE WOMEN OF ALL Nations" WRITE TO ME VERY OFTEN Write to me very often, If you but send a line, For the ocean rolls between us, Yet your life seems linked to mine. I am tarrying with strangers, But when your letters come, My heart is high with rapture, For they speak of love and home. ?Anonymous ee Re HOUSE-FURNISHING: In house-furnishing a little money and a good deal of taste go much farther than a little taste and a good deal of money. The first rule, and 4 most important one, is to go slowly. Learn what you want, and having decided this question, never accept anything else until all possible expedients are exhausted for procuring it. Do without until the moment of absolute necessity rather than accept unsatisfactory substitutes ?Selected a CONVERSATION: One of the chief benefits of conversation is that each can learn that which his companion knows and he does not; but this benefit can come only to the modest and receptive mind. Most of the argument held by persons of opposite views is quite futile for the want of this mental condition. The object is not to find out the truth about the mooted subject, but to shine and to conquer. Neither party becomes wiser, neither is convinced. The humiliation of the one and the triumph of the other are alike fruitless. Editorial Note UTAH STAKE: Relief Society Conference, February 26, 1886. President John felt well in meeting with the sisters in conference once more and thought we were doing a good work. We know that this is the Kingdom of God, and feel that the Lord is blessing us here in Provo****Let us honor those who are called to preside over us and pray for them. We must learn to build up and not pull down. Let us cultivate a spirit of peace, for our strength lies in the power we have with God.?O. Daniels, Secretary MISCELLANEOUS: Many a small man never ceases talking about small sacrifices he makes; but he is a great man who can sacrifice everything and say nothing. Let any man in middle life look over the list of those he has known and ask himself whether those have always succeeded best whose minds were most intent upon success. OUR CHILDREN: It is a great boon to the rising generation that the old custom of "telling ghost stories" and "witch stories" is pretty much abandoned. Pleasant and true stories are the best for the little ones to become interested in ****In connection with this subject, it may be observed how very important it is that little ones should be early taught to pray.?Lula Page 168 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon A poll of women's page editors of Associated Press Newspapers throughout the nation has chosen as the ten outstanding women of 1945 the following: Lise Meitner, for her research on the atom bomb, is named the woman of the year. In business, Mrs. Ogden Reid, Vice-president of the New York Herald Tribune. In politics, Mrs. Clare Boothe Luce, congresswoman. In music, Patrice Munsell of the Metropolitan Opera. In beauty, Hedy Lamarr. In stage and screen roles, Ingrid Bergman. In sports, Babe Didrickson, champion golfer. In radio, Dinah Shore. In military service, Captain Mildred McAfee, Director of the Women's Naval Reserve. In literature, Mary Chase for her whimsical comedy, Harvey, in which the leading character always takes around with him a rabbit the size of a man. The rabbit, however, is invisible, and the family is embarrassed by Elwood's behavior. NORA KAYE, in her early twenties, ranks next to Markova in the American ballet. She has danced the lead in three out of five new ballets introduced by the Metropolitan Opera. LIEUTENANT COLONEL MARY AGNES BROWN has been appointed to serve on the staff of General Omar N. Bradley of the Veterans' Administration. Lieutenant Colonel Brown went to the Pacific in March 1944, winning many awards for her courageous service. A former attorney, she was president of the Women's Bar Association of Washington. She will handle the problems of the women veterans. MRS. ANN JANE PEEL NOBLE, a valiant pioneer of 1862, passed away in Mesa, Arizona, December 17, 1945. As a girl of ten, Mrs. Noble walked the entire distance from the Missouri River to the Salt Lake Valley. She was married January 30, 1870, in the old Endowment House to Edward Alvah Noble. Mrs. Noble was the mother of thirteen children and, in addition, reared two other children to womanhood. Her life was a beautiful example of love and devotion to her family and to her Church. With her husband, Mrs. Noble helped to pioneer the settlements of Kanab, Utah, and later, St. Johns and Alpine, Arizona. At the latter place, she made her home for a period of sixty-five years. She would have been ninety-four years of age on February 15, 1946. Six sons and daughters survive her passing. Page 169 EDITORIAL 9 MARCH 1946 ?A Thing of Beauty Is a Joy Forever" MANY Relief Society women have in their possession treasured heirlooms that are the handiwork of a member of the family. These heirlooms, in many instances, represent the skills and crafts of pioneer ancestors and forebears who brought from the old country the domestic arts peculiar to the country from which they emigrated. The articles have grown in value as they have been handed down from generation to generation not only because of their age and beauty, but also because the knowledge of the skills required to produce these articles is gradually disappearing. This is a very unfortunate condition and there are many reasons for it. The chief reason, however, is one of neglect?neglect on the part of the younger women to learn from the older women how to do ?this handwork. The knowledge of many skills and crafts has gone to the grave with women who would willingly have passed the knowledge on to others had the opportunity presented itself. Because this is a mechanized age and modern women lead very active lives, few have taken time to learn and use this precious inheritance from the past. It would be tragic to lose this part of our inheritance because the developing of these skills to produce handwork can enrich life in many ways. Page 170 ?The arts and crafts can beautify the home and bring pleasure to guests as well as to members of the family, This developing of skillful hands has a very hygienic effect on the mind and it also helps to produce a confident spirit. The Relief Society program presents two distinct opportunities for the encouragement, preservation, and teaching of the skills and crafts to women. The desire of the Relief Society General Board to encourage and preserve the skills of Mormon women was a vital factor in establishing the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop. Many women throughout the Church again took an interest in handicraft and found a ready outlet for the work of their hands. Crafts that had been thought "old-fashioned" were revived, and the articles made have been much in demand. Many family incomes were thus bolstered and supplemented by the proceeds from the sale of handwork contributed to the Shop. The work meeting provides an ideal opportunity for teaching skills and crafts to those desirous of learning these arts. In every ward there are women, skillful in some phase of handicraft, who would be willing to teach others at a work meeting. EDITORIAL 171 The work meeting could be made more interesting and valuable to the women by teaching them old and new crochet and knitting stitches, how to et (almost a lost art), how to make a rag rug so that it will lie flat, and how to do the many interesting embroidery stitches and where to use them. Many women who would not be interested in the arts already mentioned still could not resist learning to do needle or petit point. The Relief Society will always endeavor to encourage and preserve the crafts and sills of Mormon women. G.R.G. New serial to Begin in April A new serial, "Faith Is a Heritage," by Christie Lund Coles, will begin in the April Relief Society Magazine. The problems of a young widow and her adjustment to a changed social and economic environment are graphically presented. Through patience, hard work, and faith, Enid Drage solves her problems and rears her daughter to young womanhood. The author, a gifted daughter of C. N. and Cecelia Peterson Lund, was born in Salina, Utah. The family later moved to Mount Pleasant where Christie attended grade school. When the Lunds came to Salt Lake City, Christie completed her high school work, attended the University of Utah, and, in 1933, she was married to Elroy Coles. Their eleven-year-old daughter, Christie Caroline, is already writing poetry.
Stories and poems by Mrs. Coles have appeared in magazines and newspapers of national circulation, including the Saturday Evening Post, Good Housekeeping, the Washington (D.C.) Evening Star, The Saturday Review of Literature, Tomorrow, The New York Times, and many other publications. Her story "Victory Girl," published in a recent issue of the Rocky Mountain Review, has been rated by critics as one of the best short stories written by a Utah author. Mrs. Coles has published one volume of verse, Legacy, and has a second volume compiled.
Our readers are familiar with the stories and poems, many of them prize winners, which Mrs. Coles has contributed to the Magazine.REMEMBER LOVE Anna Prince Redd
My heart looks up, accepts its meager boon! There is no Gilead oil in bitter pride. No sesame for joy in cynic mood, But love, remembered, ever will be mine.
The Clouded Window Caroline Eyring Miner THERE was once a woman who called to her neighbor and said, "My dear, just look, if you will, at Sarah Brown's washing on the line. It is so grimy it's a disgrace to hang it out," and she peered through her window again at the line hung with damp clothes, as if to justify her remark. That glance, through her own soot-covered, dusty, and spotted window was the only possible justification for her cruel words. Outside, or viewed through shiny windows, Sarah Brown's clothes swung white as freshly fallen snow in the crisp morning breeze. Too often the windows of our souls are sooty and grimy with dirt so that they obscure the true state of affairs. I am thinking of the soot of envy, and jealousy, the grime of slander and gossip and alibi. My neighbor has succeeded in winning prizes on her canned vegetables and fruits at the county fair. I have seen her products and feel that mine are better and I have desired and coveted just such recognition as she has received. Looking through a clean window I would see things as they are. Her products, which she made a great effort to display, were really the best at the fair. I should be glad for her justified reward, but I am viewing the incident through a clouded window and so I am envious and jealous of her recognition. I slander her work and alibi my own position. Almost every moment of our lives is colored or discolored by the window through which we view it, or in other words by our individual point of view. I know a woman intimately who looks at the world through a rose-colored window. She is enthusiastic about everyone and everything. She is uncritical and each experience as it comes to her, whether objectively good or bad, is the very best thing that could have happened to her. What a delightful view she enjoys from her window. We are not all alike, though, and perhaps it is as well that we are not all looking at the world through tinted windows. The essential thing is that we see things as they are through clear windows and not distorted and sullied, through sooty and clouded ones. Page 172 Prelude to Spring Beatrice Rordame Parsons THE last tiny edges of snow had melted into small rivulets across the yard, and daffodils lifted tiny yellow, lavender, and pink heads among the last winter's leaves.
Gram Latimer and her young neighbor, Alicia Tremayne, who lived in the big, white farmhouse halfway down the road, stood on the porch of the old Latimer farmhouse and glanced eagerly towards the state highway.
Far off in the distance a yellow car moved against the horizon. Gram's voice quivered. "It's him, Lissa. It's Val. He's coming home at last."
Her fingers pulled the woolen shawl closer about her shoulders, though the early March sun was warm against her snow-white hair. Excitement showed in her features?excitement and happiness, with just a tiny shadow of fear. She looked at the girl.
"Will . . . will he be changed, dear? It's been such a long time. It's been out of the army for eight months. And yet he hasn't been home."
A tiny pain suspended itself in Alicia's heart. Why hadn't Val come? What had happened? It had been a long time. Four years since he had gone away. So much had happened in between. The war. The wound in his hand. His engagement to Winni. . . .
Almost as if she had read Alicia's thoughts, Gram said sharply, "She's coming with him?she and her brother, Hank Carter, who has that band in town. Val wants to show her off."
The pain in Alicia's heart grew stronger. Once she had dreamed of Val as a girl dreams of the man she loves. But with his engagement to Winni she had wrapped those dreams in the tiniest corner of her heart. She spoke quietly. "I'm glad he's happy, Gram. He deserves to be."
Gram shook her head and her faded brown eyes were shrewd. "Val's a farm boy, no matter what high-falutin' notions he's got since the war. He belongs on the farm." Her voice died to a fraction of its tone and she whispered. "He's got to want to stay on the farm, Lissa."
Alicia knew what it meant to Gram to have Val back. She knew how hard it had been for the old lady all these years. She had done the best she could, but fallow land, unplanted fields and broken fences attested to her lack of help. Alicia tried not to see how shabby things were. She spoke almost fiercely. "Soon it will be beautiful. Right now everything's sort of . . . well, dark brown and . . . and ugly. But pretty soon the apple trees will be spreading a pink carpet over the orchard, and the gulls will be following the plow."
GRAM did not seem to hear her vehemence. The cab was turning into the long lane that led towards the house. As Alicia finished, it stopped at the white picket gate. Page 173 174 In another minute Val stepped out and Alicia's eyes shone in spite of her resolution not to show how much it meant to her to have him come home. ~ He looked the same, tall, wide-shouldered, with rumpled brown hair and laughing brown eyes very much like Gram's. He put out his left hand and helped Winni out, and Alicia's eyes filled with tears. His right hand hung stiff and useless at his side. The girl was beautiful in a tall, haughty way, with smooth dark hair rolled into a great chignon at her neck and blue eyes that examined everything carefully. Her brother, Hank, was round and cheerful, and he carried his violin case carelessly as he came up the walk. Winni called to him sharply, "Hank, do carry my bag! You know Val can't manage it and the little one, too." Dutifully, Hank turned and picked up the bag, but in spite of Val's smile, Alicia saw him wince. Then he was striding up the walk, and his left arm was holding his grandmother close against his side while he kissed her. "Gram, Gram, darling, it's good to see you." He kissed her again, then looked across her thin shoulder at the girl standing beside her. His eyes widened, then he began to laugh, as he offered his hand. "Is it really you, Lissa? I'd never have known you! Where are all those freckles, long legs and fiery hair?" He looked at her until she blushed furiously, and Winnie's cool voice asked, "Darling, aren't you going to introduce us?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 She held out a formal hand and her fingers brushed Alicia's for an instant. 'Then she turned and stared at the old stone house. "How quaint, Val. It's just like a picture of some old pioneer home." A smile lighted Gram's face. "It is a pioneer home, Winni. My grandfather built it, clearing the rocks from the land to build the house." Hank tapped one of the big stones in the pillar of the porch and remarked smilingly, "Your grandfather must have been quite a guy, Mrs. Latimer." They all laughed as Gram ushered them inside. She hurried off to the kitchen to see about lunch and Val stopped on his way through the hall to poke and pry into every corner. Winni followed Hank and Alicia into the living room and stood in the doorway, a tiny disdainful smile crossing her lips as she saw the rose-sprigged, old-fashioned wallpaper. All at once, Alicia saw that Val had joined them. He was standing just inside the door, his eyes going slowly around the room. When he spoke it was almost as if he were speaking to himself. "Funny, but out there on the islands I kept remembering the pattern of this carpet." HIS toe traced the outline of a big, red rose, and Alicia knew that he meant he had remembered the pattern of everything?the way Gram's soft white curtains framed the big bay window, the pictures on the wall, the way the sunlight caressed the piano keys. She saw him straighten as his eyes turned towards the piano and almost at once his face set itself into a hard, gray mask. Before he had gone PRELUDE TO SPRING away, Val had played the piano. He had been better than most of the boys who had taken lessons from the one country teacher. Val had something that set him just a little apart. Now that thing was gone. He would never play again. Alicia found herself shivering as she watched Winni cross the room and strike a few chords on the piano. As the girl lifted her throaty voice in a crooning sort of song, Alicia wondered if she had ever known the grim, unsmiling man who listened. When she was through, Hank clapped a little. "That's the idea, Win. You've got it now. It'll go over big with the band if you sing it that way at the opening of the season at the Bronze Club." All at once Alicia knew she was going to cry. She had to get away. Her voice was smothered as she said: "I... I must go. Mother will be expecting me for lunch." She turned and hurried away. But Val followed her through the hall and out to the porch. There he faced her almost angrily. "Why are you running away? Aren't we friends any longer, or... " his lip curled bitterly, "... Or is it that you don't want to talk about my hand?" His words battered at her defenses and the tears rolled down her cheeks. "Oh, my dear, my dear," she whispered, and caught her lower lip in her teeth to stop the words. But it was too late. Everything she had ever dreamed was in her voice, her words. He looked into her clear, fine eyes, then turned abruptly away. "It's not myself I'm thinking of," he muttered, "it's Gram and Winni. Both have a right to something better than a one-handed man!" He 175 looked out over the bleak landscape, at the barren fields, the leafless cottonwoods, the little brook that wandered through the muddy meadow, and his voice was scornful. "I can't ask Winni to live here. Gram wants me to. But this is ugly... Dead. Winni's beautiful and talented. She has a career before her, singing with Hank's band. Gram belongs here, but she's got to come away with us. Someone's got to look after her, now. She's worked too hard. She's old. ['ll sell the farm and get a job...." But he stopped and held up his hand, his eyes filling with sardonic hurt, his lips twisting into a smile that cut into Alicia's heart. "There must be something a one-handed man can do," he said harshly. "There is, Val!' It was Winni's voice and though it was meant to be soothing, Alicia heard a rasp to it that was meant for her. Winni's eyes accused her of upsetting Val. Of hurting him. Winni said defensively, "Val's going to play the piano in Hank's orchestra." At Val's quick little movement of dissent, she said sharply, "I've told him again and again that he can do it. He was always beating out left-hand melody at the hospital when I sang there. He's good. I've been trying to convince him that he can join the band and make a living in spite of his hand." As if the matter were settled, she put her hand on his arm and drew him towards the door. "We'll see you sometime," she told Alicia cooly. It was several mornings later, while Alicia was pruning her roses, that Val came down the road and stopped at her gate. "A thorn among the roses," he said teasingly, reminding her of the young lad who had come 176 down the lane when children. "You can't get on the best side of me," she said sternly, though her eyes laughed, "by handing, out compliments." His legs were long enough to step over the gate without opening it. He came to her side and caught her hand. "The way you're digging among those roses, I doubt that they'll ever bloom. Winni's getting her beauty sleep. She's used to being lazy. I woke early and Gram set breakfast on the kitchen table just like she did when I was a youngster." His eyes were young and gay. "Now I want to look things over, everything that I missed when I was away. You're going to show them to me." OE pulled her to her feet, his left hand strong and warm about her fingers, and pushed open the gate. Alicia knew she had never been so aware of anyone as she was of this tall, firm-shouldered man striding along that she must skip a step every once in a while and run a little. He wore brown slacks and a brown wool sweater that matched his rumpled hair, and for the first time he looked rested and happy. But grimness crept back into his face as they walked around the farm. Though the sun was growing warmer no green shoots, except the dried breeze. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 At a board nailed crooked against the barn, and his voice was hoarse. "Gram's been carpenter, handy man, and everything else since I've been ay. It makes me sick to think of der-length veil and said softly, "She's loved doing it, Val. She?s done it a stick in his left fingers and slashed at the tops of the dried grass. His voice chilled her with its scornful tone. "Remember, Lissa, when we were kids, we used to pretend that sticks were ships going out for treasure." He tossed the bit of stick in his hand into the water and watched it out of sight. His lips curled "Fine treasure my ship brought in.? The defenselessness of his young face stabbed her to the center of her She longed to put out her and to touch him, to hold him closely in her arms. If only were some way she could help him! This was Val's problem. He must solve it alone. He one who could help. Her voice was crisp in spite of what it cost her to speak. "Each man fights for his own treasure, Val.? He turned on her angrily "I?m sick of fighting. The world?s sick of fighting. All we know is peace? ?Not the sort of peace,? objected Alicia fiercely, ?that makes us weak.? For a moment she thought he waws going to shout at her, put his hand against her shoulder and shake her. PRELUDE TO SPRING Then his shoulders drooped and he appealed to her with childlike simplicity. "Tell me, Lissa, what can I do? How can I fight against..." he waved his broken hand towards the cold, dark land... "all this!" There was so much pain in his voice that she swayed a little towards him, then drew sharply back. Her eyes as they met his were darkly blue and earnest. "You could plow that field!" He looked at it, his eyes lighting quickly. "Gram would like that," he said. "She wants to plant some sugar beets...." his voice trailed despondently away. "It takes two good hands to plant and plow. It's easier to sell." 'The old hardness was back in his face. "I've got a buyer," he finished curtly. "Winni's going back to town for the opening of the club. I've decided to join the band. As soon as I've worked up some good left-hand tunes, I'll be going too. Winni's going to find Gram an apartment..." ALICIA found hysterical laughter bubbling towards her lips. Val looked at her curiously. "What's the matter?" he exploded. "I've got everything worked out, and you don't seem to like the idea." "He fixed her with a baleful glare and asked, "Just what do you think I should do?" She didn't mean to say any more, but in spite of her resolution she found herself repeating the words: "Plow that field." He sputtered angrily, "I'll bet you think I don't know how. I'll bet..." Then he stopped, turned. Furiously on his heel, and marched across the meadow. It was several mornings later that 177 Alicia woke to the sound of gulls following a plow. She went to the window and her eyes widened swiftly. Val was plowing the field! As she watched, the plow slipped from his fingers and she saw him angrily dash the perspiration from his forehead with his shirt sleeve. For a moment she thought he was going to leave the team standing just where it was. Then he snatched up the plow and followed it doggedly up and down the furrows. They wobbled crazily, but he went on and on. Alicia's smile was tender as she let the curtain fall into place. He came down the road that evening and sat on her front steps in the early spring twilight. He lifted his left hand and showed her the blisters that stood out red and angry across the palm. He smiled shamefacedly. "I started to plow because I was so angry at you. But I got to liking it. It took me back to when I was a kid and followed Dad when he plowed." She laughed joyfully. "I used to follow, too, and get in the way. Do you think I'd get in the way if I followed you tomorrow?" "Td like it," he said, and added slyly, "if you won't be shocked if I grumble a little." Within a few days the field was plowed and planted. Gram smiled as she brought them tall glasses of cold milk and big wedges of spice cake. "It's like old times to have you two kids under foot again." She turned and looked at the house. 178 "The house would look the same, too, if it had a coat of paint on the windows and doors." "If that's a hint," said Val flatly, "I can't hear a word. Let Mr. Thurgood paint his own house, when he buys it." Mr. Thurgood seemed anxious to do it when he 
came to look the farm over. He strode about, a running fire of words falling from his lips. "I?ll paint the woodwork gray to blend with the stones. And I'll
pull down those sheds and coops and build new ones.? He put his fingers in his vest and his chest swelled. "This can be the slickest farmhouse
in the community, once I get it fixed up." Gram grew pale as she listened to
him. "But the woodwork's always been painted white," she began, then turned and hurried away to look after her chicks. When Mr. Thurgood was gone,
Val asked Alicia to come with him to the tool house. There was a sort
of little-boy determination in his face. "There are some unopened cans
of paint in the shed. I bought too many five years ago when I painted the place. Gray woodwork will look homely with those gray stones. Mr. Thurgood doesn't know a thing about painting. He hasn't had much experience with farms. I'm sure
he'll like the woodwork painted white." He looked through tools and boxes,
baskets and gunny-sacks which had been pushed helter-skelter into the shed for four years, and emerged, dusty, yet triumphant, with the paint. Alicia helped him mix it and got a brush. Together they found the ladder and set it against
the bay window. Alcia was a great help. She handed Val things and ran back
and forth fetching and carrying. Once, her heart almost stopped when Val took something in his right hand. He doesn't know it, she thought breathlessly, hoping he wouldn't see the happiness shining in her face as she hid it beneath the soft veil of her lovely hair, but his fingers are beginning to respond to his need of them. When he doesn't think about his hand, he uses it a little.
CHE felt she had never been so happy in her life, watching this miracle happening to Val. In the evenings she and Gram sat on the porch and listened while Val worked out runs and arpeggios with his left hand, and once when he struck a wavering chord with his right. Gram's eyes filled with tears. "It's God's great work," she said simply to Alicia. As the days grew longer, a transformation took place in the land. The middle of April brought the
first rich ripples of growing things. The grass along the brook tossed greening fronds to peek into the flashing water. The buds on the trees in the orchard swelled and burst into the first white touches of blossoms-to-be.
Then, one night while Alicia and Gram were listening to the soft strains of Val's music, he stopped abruptly and came out upon the porch, standing there in the shadows so that they could not see his face. Words came haltingly, as if he
wanted to say them but was a little ashamed. "I've been thinking, Gram. Things look a lot different around here than they did when I first came. Today the farm looked almost beautiful, like it did when I was a kid." He stopped, stared
out into the shadows, and said more slowly than ever. PRELUDE TO SPRING "I've been wondering if I should sell it. After all, you like it here, and it's always been a good living for the Latimer men." The rocker Gram sat in creaked a little, and through the dusk Alicia saw the joy and wonder that flooded her faded eyes. "Yes," she said softly. "Yes, it's been a good living, and more than that, Val, it's been home." Val was silent for a long time. Then he said: "Winni's coming back tomorrow. I'm going to try to make her see it the way I do now. I'm going to ask her to stay." He swallowed quickly, and added: "I'm not going to ask her to give up her career. We're close enough to the city so that she can still sing with Hank. But this would be our home." He stepped back through the screen door and closed it softly. Alicia heard Gram's voice whispering a little prayer: "Thanks! Thanks, so much." 'Then Val's left hand swept over the keys and in another moment his right followed carefully. To Alicia the music was the sweetest she had ever heard. When Winni and Hank came back Winni jumped from the taxi and kissed Val. "Let Hank take care of the things, darling," she said, linking her arm through his. She gave Gram and Alicia a careless nod and began explaining about the club. "They were crazy about me, darling. People are hungry for music and a good time. I do hope you've been practicing your music lessons like a good little boy." Her smile was teasingly lovely. "Because I'm sure you'll make a hit with the left-hand beat." She followed him up the walk, 179 scarcely listening to what he was telling her about the paint and the plowing. At last, hearing a certain note of importance in his voice, she stopped and looked around. "It does look better, Val," she admitted carelessly, "if an old house and farm can look better. But you should see the apartment I've picked out. It's small, yet big enough to hold a grand piano. We'll both need it, you know." He did not answer as he opened the screen, but Alicia saw the old defeated look in his face. When he sat down to play the piano, he did not attempt to use his right hand. As time went by, Alicia realized with a sinking heart just how much ground Val had lost. He sat alone a good deal and the bleakness in his eyes hurt her. She found herself listening to hear his laughter, but it did not come. Winni mothered him prettily, assisting with the smallest tasks, worrying lest his hand bother him. The farm was neglected while Val banged out blue notes on the piano. Then Winni's short vacation was done, and Hank was packing his violin back into its case ready for the morning. Val was picking strains out upon the piano keys while Gram and Alicia washed up the milk pans. "Let's run through that Chopin polonaise once more," said Winni, and began the words in a low, pulsing tone. Val's left hand stumbled against a note, and she broke off angrily: "It's too lovely to spoil, Val. Try the Tschaikowsky. It's a novelty the way you do it with the left hand." "Yes," agreed Val harshly, "'it's a novelty," and Winni stared at him with astonished eyes. 180 "You say that as if you didn't like to play it," she said sharply, and burst out, "I don't know what's come over you Val, but you're changed. You don't seem to like doing my songs any more. I've tried to be kind when you missed the notes. I've tried to understand and be patient. I've tried to make you interested in a Career. But I've failed, Val. You'll never make a hit at the club. 'There's no use kidding yourself. If you could play with both hands..." She shrugged the matter away as quite hopeless, and said flatly, "Well, from now on, you've got to make up your Own mind. Do you want to be a left-hand pianist, or do you want to stay here on the farm and go to seed?" He didn't answer, and she followed Hank to the stairs. There she paused and said: "Things can still be the same if you want them to be, Val. Hank and I are leaving in the morning. If you decide to come, all you have to do is pack a bag." Her heels clicked sharply as she went up the steps. Val stood quietly in the hall until her bedroom door closed sharply. Then he went outside and Alicia heard him pacing up and down the walk. When she left to go home, he did not speak to her. A week later, he came marching along the road and entered her back door without more than a perfunctory knock. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 "The pussy willows are bustin' out all over," he said smilingly. "And those sugar beets are almost big enough to weed." He took the dish towel from her hand and drew her away from the sink. Without even waiting for her to put on a hat, he led her across the meadow to the edge of the brook. There he stopped and picked up a stick. He tossed it into the water and it slipped out of sight. "1 eft-handed solos aren't treasure enough," he said, and his eyes held hers, "I want my ship to bring back something more precious." His right hand stole up and cupped her soft chin, and his eyes looked deep into hers. "Tell me that it will, Lissa, darling. Tell me that it will bring love and happiness and everything a man wants from the world." His hand came down from her chin and went about her waist, strong and firm and determined, and he waited for her words. "Yes, Val," she said softly, "Yes, my dear. He held her close and kissed her. Then he let her go and stood arm in arm looking over his land. "Soon you'll be a Latimer, darling," he said softly. "Then as long as life lasts we'll watch through the winters of life for our preludes to spring. And they'll always come. No matter what happens now, spring will always come."  LESSON Katherine Fernelius Larsen I once rebelled at humdrums; now I find It is the lowly task, well-done, that frees the mind. Thrift Begins in the Garden Vesta P. Crawford With Illustrations by Betti Williamson THE most confirmed flower ???T rower has a new thrill coming - when he starts raising vegetables and fruit. Your own radishes for breakfast, your own strawberries '1 that shortcake for dinner?it's quite a different sensation from going daily to the market, and much more satisfying both to your palate and your purse. Vegetables and fruits can be ornamental as well as useful. An apricot tree pruned to climb a wall looks quite as well as climbing ivy. Red tomatoes hanging on a trellis are quite as handsome as a lace vine. Dwarf currant bushes and gooseberries make excellent foundation plantings, and a border of curled arsley or dainty alpine strawberries is delightful. The ashen-leafed gatden sage is attractive in the rockery, Perennials GR Fruit trees 1 ESPALIER 2 ASPATAGUS| = 3StrawdeTrIEs | | 4PATSs\eyY 5Chives 6GAPIIC TONIONS 8Rhubarb scutrants wRaspberries nBlacK berries WALL and mint and watercress are beautiful edgings for the lily pool. It is surprising how much food can be produced on a small plot of ground. In the suburbs, and even in the city, if you have a space six by ten feet, or larger, you can grow vegetables and fruit. The requirements are sunshine (for at least half the day), water, if the season is dry, either by "row" irrigation or sprinkling, and a reasonable amount of cultivation, at least enough stirring of the soil to eliminate weeds and keep the surface loose. The ground should be deeply spaded and heavily enriched with old, well-rotted manure or a balanced commercial fertilizer. Your county agent or State Department of Agriculture can furnish you with detailed Annuals a yCucumbers 2Tomatoes 3cress 4Radishes SLettuce 6Beets 7Carrots 8Turnips q Peppers 10C\imbins Beans Page 18) information Teg: your locality and ment needed. Wilted flowers, st meat scraps fr all help to make more easily worked. Coars such as leaves or Ja first be used as a may be dug under. It is all a matter From the short row of to the long row of car box of herbs to the arding the soil in the type of enrichDecaying leaves, ems, peelings and om the kitchen, the soil richer and ? material, wn Cuttings, may mulch and later of planning. Bunch lettuce Tots, from the asparagus bed, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 it is all a matter of working out a pleasant problem. This is the most important thing to remember: Plant vegetables and fruits which wil] give the greatest yield for the smallest space. And, if you wish to be very economical, don't waste a spot large enough to grow a seed. In planning the plot use a large Piece of paper, some good seed catalogues, a stack of Magazines, and all ? criticism and encouragement your family or the neighbors can give. In the first place, sketch in what you will want to do with the fence or border of your property and how you want to make use of the arbor or trellis. Here you may wish to make a decision between perennial vines, such as blackberries, boysenberries, or raspberries, and the quick-growing annuals such as beans, cucumbers, and tomato vines. It may take several years for the berry vines to produce in quantity, but annuals Sprout up quickly and can be trained to climb fences or decorate the arbor. They produce heavily and the crop will last until frost. ? From the cucumber vines along a single short fence, one may make pickles for winter, and tomato vines yield many quarts of juice for sunless days. E best tomatoes for the home garden are some type of the Earliana or Farthest North, hardy varieties which mature quickly. Fora novelty which will make 4 good showing on the fence, the small yellow-fruited varieties are excellent. Try the Yellow Pear or Yellow Plum for a bounteous yield of small, well-flayored fruits that are delicious in salads and convenient for garnishing and for marmalades. The long, slender varieties of cucumbers are by far the most satisfactory for slicing, THRIFT BEGINS IN THE GARDEN ter are especially making, Fora Permanent household garden that will cedure little work, it is well IS an old-fashioned deli- 183 is required. The Victoria yields more heavily, ? gardener who wants quick results will buy rhubarb Toots rather than tty his luck with slow, UNcertain seeds You May not have thought of Onions as Perennials, but jf you get the bunch, or "multiplier," Sets and take care of them, they wil] glow telish. This Plant spreads Tapidly and once started is hardy as any weed and just as P?rsistent, ? secret of making the Most of 4 small garden Plot is either to Talse root 'Tops that go down deeply 184 tiful leaves that are crisp and green and full of vitamins. A succession of radishes may be obtained by following the method used by our pioneer grandmothers?each time a radish is pulled a seed is dropped into the hole. The small, bulb-shaped radishes are best for early planting and the slender white ones are more satisfactory for fall and winter use. Space should be utilized to its fullest extent, also, by setting out pepper plants and eggplants among the early radishes so that by the time the radishes are gone the other plants will be reaching their maturity. Some gardeners use the space where early vegetables have been harvested for planting head lettuce for late fall and early winter use. It is an interesting game to see what an amazRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 ing succession of crops may be achieved in a midget garden. No household plot should be considered complete without a corner for herbs. These plants are divided into three groups?aromatic, medicinal, and pot herbs. If one has space to spare he may wish to raise aromatic herbs or experiment with medicinal varieties, but the pot herbs are almost a necessity. Among the best known and most commonly used are: Perennial Annual Chives Dill Parsley Sweet Marjoram Mint Sage Sweet Fennel THRIFT BEGINS IN THE GARDEN For salads, Soups, and for flavorin Meats, these herbs are Miracle work. Ets. Some Clever Cooks use differ-- Even the Frail Christie Lund Coles ITA BERNSTROM looked through the open window and knew that this was the hardest time of day to bear?this hour between light and darkness?when the earth and sky seemed luminous, belllike in their clarity. It was as if every sight and sound might break the heart?the gilt of the sun sifting through the window, the cool, dark shadow of the lilac bush across the foot of the bed. She could hear the neighbor women clanging kitchen utensils as they Prepared the evening meal. She could hear the shouts of children, the slide of their roller skates. She could even hear the gtunt of the rope as two children "pumped" each other in the back-yard swing. Men were coming home from work, dogs were barking, running after the occasional car that passed on the quiet street, sending the dust spiraling upward. She closed her eyes, listened as the radio played softly an old tune that swept over her in waves of light and darkness, waves of memories that were gay and tender. She was in a pink tulle dress, leaning backward in Brock's arms, laughing, saying, "You wouldn't fool me, would you, Mister?" dancing, whirling. Brock was smiling his one-sided smile, slowly, briefly, telling her seriously, "I'll never fool you, Rita. I love you too much. ['m going to malty you and we're going to have..." She murmured softly, "Yes. | know. We're going to have a white Page 186 house with green shutters... And five sons and maybe a daughter." His arm tightened about her and she felt his lips on her hair. And maybe a daughter! What casual words. Sons weren't so important, she supposed, not when the daughter was Eleanor?Eleanor with her dark hair and blue eyes, blue as the sky at noon, like morning glories in the sun. She turned her head on the tumpled pillows. She was terribly tired. That was strange because one shouldn't get tired just lying, just thinking.... After a moment, she opened her eyes. She heard footsteps on the porch. Through the window she could see Mrs. Smith's tall, gaunt form, her bony fingers clutching a Stay sweater about her. Rita's heart began pounding. Instinctively, she reached over to close her doot. She didn't want to see anyone. But Mrs. Smith gave a brief knock and walked in. She stood in the doorway, looking appraisingly about the room before she said, "Still down? Oh, d@r..." There was no point in reminding Mrs. Smith that she would be down for a long time yet, so Rita only repeated the words, "Still down." Then, "Sit over there, won't you?" The other woman shook her head, "No, I haven't time. I've got to get Supper going. There's always so much to do. You're lucky to be able to lie here and test. Sometimes, I think if I gave up..." She sighed 4S if words could not tell of her f. Rita & ssed her Smooth, Ictio Cheek, ? 8," she told her 'Tm sorry," Said, "wha ??s remember gh ach time her the Doctor think ig Wrong?" aughter w Out to play she would "The Docto Pshaw! Edo place 8'ass of wat ?side h they know" Once more she lookeg Some tiss es, her digitalis She 40ut the room ita Was aware Would say "yy you won't eed ) of the dust, of the beq's disorder. Anything unti] I come back," Then Mrs. Smith was leaving, SaySuzanne Stood back smiling Shying, "Ig there's anything I can do ly. Rita WaS sorry she had even moeyes. Her Weariness was alive Children to World on faith with a s ? &Mawing unha Pr She reach d to ? child ang ness. She wa ted t ?P,_ but Suzann ? int a there were no als, not a 'Y more naturally Vapor MEIges into sun Y did th oman ?, why light did anyone me, with their Curious 'You'r awful] cet," Suzan cyes. ? wanted ? alone, to said, Squeezing > "Tove you ? shut h or, to w,. T here in the Elean 0oke Puzzled gs She stillness wh ?ven pain Wasn't as asked her f;; "Wh you love?. En every grief | meet with analytic fyes. "Shall 7 Tead you the funnies?" She ? heard Eleanor and her friend ? would Stop skating, Swinging, Coming in at the back door. For 2 just to ask how a sick P?rson felt o+ Tusion, Sh istened hem as Each of he Curled UP on the they discus 210 program of bed beside her hile she d, but he night before anor was Saywhen sh ad finished he did not ing, "She said ce ve, S00dbye ?ep the here ? tried to do Steve.' sp was j with him, Other Mghts, tellin them Bib] ?n she Crashed,' " anne, the Stories or Jit le jokes She was in no Other child, added, "Yes. Said ?MOood for Her Orld had: Oodbye, 800dbye Steve,' on't strangely beco ? a dark snoog shut. Get it,' " ng out the; lity of everything e bringing in the ?vening paper. They care. WETE SO sweet each emerging into But Brock would be Coming soon 8itlhood. | ] m e - Eleanor Squeezed her tightly ang ing about his feet, He would put his hands, splash water over his face and dark hair, whistling as he did so. "Hello," he would say slowly, coming into her room, drawing the word out into almost three syllables. He would pick up the evening paper _where Eleanor had left it, glance at it, and finally, bend over and kiss her. Even after nine years of marriage it was not a perfunctory kiss. It was tender and warm and sometimes, she was sure, it said all the things, the "How are you, my dear? I hope you've had a good day," that he was too inarticulate to say. At times it hurt her that he didn't say more, ask more. Then she would remember one night when he took her in his arms and cried, brokenly, "Oh, I'm so sorry for you. So terribly sorry." She knew it was better this way. Neither saying what was in the mind, each pretending. And it wasn't hard to pretend when he was here, for something within her bubbled with warmth and elation... Especially on Sundays when he and Eleanor would prepare Sunday dinner, then bring it in on a gaily bedecked tray. Each would take credit for whatever was best, each would deny having made the lumpy gravy. FTEN, when the dishes were washed, Eleanor would come in and they would play Chinese checkers. Brock would pretend complete interest in whatever he was doing in the living room but soon he would be drawn in, would ask with his slow, one-sided smile, "Do you think you can beat me?" "Oh, I daresay," she would assure him, smiling up into his eyes, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 watching him as he picked up the board, arranging the brightly colored marbles so they could all three play until she was tired and forced to sink further into the rumpled pillows. She knew she was lucky to have Brock, but there were times, like this, when she was overcome by a horrible, clawing ache. She resented this frail body with its great weariness, its swift heartbeats. She even resented him and his kindness. She didn't want him doing her work, having the neighbors pity him. She turned her head to the wall and@let her eyes travel for the unnumbered time up the pink wall paper, trace the white flower upon it. Brock had papered a few months ago. He thought it would make lying here easier. But already there were smudges on it where Eleanor touched it when she crawled into bed with her after her daddy left in the morning. She sighed as she heard Brock's car in the driveway. Now, the game would go on. He would pretend he didn't mind having a wife who couldn't measure up to the name. She had been gay and _ vivacious when he had married her, though not as strong as some women because of an old heart ailment. But she had kept the house, taken care of things until after Eleanor's birth. Then, she had gradually grown more tired, less able to make her ener, teach... Until the collapse. She recalled the small, intent doctor telling her she would have to have complete rest for at least a year, maybe longer. She remembered telling Brock, "Some people in the world would make quick work of my kind of per- EVEN THE FRAIL son. They don't let them hang on and suffer." He had looked at her "Don't be silly." But it was true, and perhaps, it was better. Suddenly, she put her hands over her eyes as her mind's shutter opened on the picture of a little girl, her beautiful little daughter. Each day, almost each time she came into the house she called to her mother immediately after opening the door, called and waited. If there was no answer she called again, an urgency, a fear in her voice that, please God, should never have been there. Darkly, ROCK seemed slower in coming to her room. It seemed more of an effort for him to take his eyes from the paper and kiss her. And as he bent down, she saw new lines about his mouth, lines put there, no doubt, by worry and unhappiness. She asked him, through force of habit, "How is everything at the plant?" "Fine," he assured her, not noticing her preoccupation, the look in her eyes. Then, "what would you like to eat?" "It doesn't matter," she said quietly. It didn't matter. It would probably be the same as always, meat and potatoes, string beans or carrots, canned fruit from the basement. What would she like, really? Creamed chicken on toast, shrimp salad, something green and crisp and appetizing, something cool and light. He left her room and shortly afterwards she heard Gloria at the back door, Gloria Ross, the neighbor girl who came in on Saturdays and helped with the cleaning. "Hi" she greeted Brock now, "how'd you like me to come and help get supper?" "Fine," he assured her, "you said you would some time. I'm getting tired of my own cooking. Not that it's not good, mind you." Gloria laughed, "Oh, I'm sure it is delicious." She was soon rattlin pans in the small, bright kitchen, the kitchen Rita loved with its crisp white and red curtains, the huge bay window which caught both the morning and the afternoon sun. She had so loved working there, baking on cloudy days, ironing. They talked of the good weather, Gloria's school work. Then she squeeled, "Turn on the radio! Har. Ty James! And is he the stuff?" After a second she went on, "Or can Mrs, Bernstrom stand it?" "She doesn't mind," Brock assured her, stepping into the other room to snap the radio on. Ordinarily it wouldn't have bothered her, but tonight it seemed the jive music was pounding upon her. But she didn't speak of it. She reached over to close her door and as she did so, she could see into the kitchen, could see Gloria holding out her dress, doing a little dance step as she told Brock, "This is getting in the groove." ITA could see the smile on Brock's face, the youngness there that she hadn't seen in a long time, too long. The thought came to her and she couldn't get it out of her mind? that he might care for Gloria. After all, it could be. She was young and vivacious, all the things his wife had left behind. And she couldn't blame him. It didn't matter. She was in 190 a place apart from them, a place with a closed door between. She heard a car door close outside just as Brock and Gloria were taking out her dishes. Brock said, "I guess that's Peter. I met him yesterday and he said he was coming out." Rita brushed at her hair with fluttering hands, "Why didn't you tell me?" she asked. "T guess I never thought of it," he answered casually, "I'll let him im." loria hurriedly gathered up the paper on the bed saying, "Til fix these then beat it through the back door." As Gloria slipped away Rita heard the voice of her husband's brother. He was successful, immaculate, somewhat condescending. She knew where his sympathies lay. And why not? Why shouldn't he pity Brock with his nose to the grindstone, paying doctor bills, growing old before his time. Once more she wanted to close the door, but Brock was bringing him in, he was asking how she felt, saying cheerfully, "You're going to be all right." "Of course," she agreed. Course." Just like that! After a few more words the two men went out and she reached over and closed her door quietly. She wouldn't need to see him again since it was an agreement between her and her husband that when it was shut she did not want to be disturbed. She thought she could sleep, but sleep was for those who were at peace, those who were weary from work or play. She heard the two brothers step out onto the front porch. She heard "Of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 Eleanor talking to her dolls in her own room. The spring evening was sweet and still. Through the open window she could have heard the two men talking but she didn't listen, she didn't want to listen until she heard Brock say, "How is Erma?" Erma was Pete's wife. She was everything that Rita wasn't, "disgustingly healthy," she described herself. Impervious, and beautiful. Peter answered, "She's fine I imagine." Then, "I seldom see her. She's forever at this luncheon or that club." "War work, too, I suppose," Brock went on. She was amazed at the irony in Peters voice, "Erma? Don't be funny." Brock told him that she, Rita, had written many letters to soldiers, and knit a couple of sweaters. He was trying to justify her lying here, she thought. Peter said, "She doesn't look too well. She's lucky to have you." Her husband didn't speak and she held her breath as she waited. She heard him laugh shortly before he disagreed, "Oh, I don't know." He seemed to be trying to find words and she thought: Now, all the bitterness and tiredness and resentment will come out. After a moment, he said, "No, Peter, she's not especially lucky. I'm the lucky one. She's so darn sweet. She has taught me a lot of things." After a moment, he went on hesitantly, "You know, Pete, if we were all strong we wouldn't ever need fight a defensive war. In many countries they 'take care' of the weak, put them out of the way, here, we fight for them, for the right of EVEN THE FRAIL even the frail to live and do good in their own way. Who knows, it may be a farther-reaching good than that of the strong." Suddenly, her nails dug into the flesh of her palms, they were wet with perspiration. Peter laughed good-naturedly, almost enviously, "Then I suppose you are both mighty lucky." Brock agreed, "Yes. I think we're ALL mighty lucky. Just living in America is really something." There was no tiredness in his 191 voice, no bitterness, just the honest goodness that was Brock. He wasn't sorry for her. He thought she was lucky, AND SHE WAS. She was. She turned her face to the pink wallpaper and lay very still looking at it, at the gray smudges. Tears, good, healing tears filled her eyes, spilled on her cheek. She reached over to the closed door, opened it wide, calling as she did so, "Eleanor, darling, don't you want to come in and say your prayer by my bed?" SHE HANGS THE LINEN ON THE LINE Dott J. Sartori Here is snow impervious To March's melting weather. Here is white unsullied as An egret's flowing feather. Here, in intermittent drifts, In cities without number, Are hung the linens of the land, Companions of our slumber. Here will snow shine glacier-clean As long as there shall be A home and need, and one who smooths A pillow tirelessly. The Best Little Shrub Mabel Harmer LINE MORTENSEN arose A briskly from the luncheon table and started putting leftovers back in the refrigerator. "What's the rush, Mother?" asked her husband mildly, teaching for another of the fresh, sugar-coated doughnuts, "are Tidwells having another remnant sale?" "It's my day to go visiting teaching and?Henry!" she exclaimed, stopping short in the midst of sclaping the jelly dish, "that's at least five doughnuts! Is that what you call watching your waistline?" "You shouldn't tempt me," he sighed. "T'll start cutting down tomorrow?I think. What was that song you were singing a while ago?" "Oh, something I heard at Church the other day, It goes like this: If you can't be a pine on the top of the hill Be a shrub in the valley, but be The best little shrub by the side of the rill Be a bush if you can't be a tree. That's all I can remember. I just thought it sort of fitted me. I've always been the shrub type?never had any big positions in the Church like Emmaretta and some of the others. She's been put in the Relief Society stake presidency now, you know. I guess being a visiting teacher is about as high as I'll ever get." "Well, you're a pine around this house," said Henry gallantly, as he pushed back his chair, "and don't let any of those female women keep you talking until you're late for dinner." "Don't you ever think of anything but eating?" sighed Aline, taking off her kitchen apron and hanging it in the broom closet. "Sure. Right now I'm wondering if I have time fora ten minute snooze before I have to get back to work." "No. But take it anyway or you'll be worrying about it all afternoon. Shall I wear my navy dot this afternoon or the rose print? Isn't it nice to have two dresses so that you can choose between them?" "Wear the rose, of course," answered Henry, breaking his yawn in the middle. "If you're going to be a shrub you might as well be a rose shrub. And don't forget to come home. When you and that Janet Meeks get together?" "Janet can't go today," said Aline, bustling off to the bedroom. "I have to go alone." "Well, don't forget to come home anyway. I get mighty lonesome while you're making up formulas for the Wilkins baby and reading to old Sister Ballard." "Why, Henry," chuckled Aline. "You know that I don't do that very often." "No, just once a month," he answered drowsily. ALF an hour Jater Aline, fresh as a June morning in her rose print and white linen hat, was hurrying down the street. "I do hope that Retta Hubbard has good news of her grandchild by now," she mused, "and that Ellen Crabtree has decided to try and get along with her THE BEST LITTLE SHRUB mother-in-law. Dear me, it's always something and it's so hard to decide just how much I can do without going too far." As she turned onto a neat walk, lined with brilliant petunias, she added, "I wish that everyone was as nicely settled as Daphne Rhoades here. A pretty new home, a fine young husband and a darling baby. I'll just peek in here for a minute and then hurry on." *? * Daphne Rhoades sat staring across the luncheon table with unseeing eyes. The sound of a back door as Rod had slammed it shut barely registered on her consciousness. A door crashing was nothing when her whole world had just gone to smash. This was most certainly the end. There was no use trying to make a go of it any longer. She might just as well get out and find a job now while she was still young and had only one child to support. Mentally she rehearsed the bitter scene that she and Rod had just been through as if trying to convince herself that it had really happened. Within ten minutes after he had come home for lunch she had known that something was wrong when he failed to go in to the baby or mention the scones which were his special favorite. Pausing by his chair, she had laid down the plate with the piping hot scones and, tweaking his ear playfully, had said, "All right, out with it. Have you quarreled with the boss or lost that wallet I gave you for Christmas?" "Tt's worse than that," he had answered heavily. "Sit Daphne. I night just as well tell you first as last. Uncle Steve came in down, 193 this morning to see me. He's in an awful jam. Aunt Marty's just had an operation and he had to have three hundred dollars for the hospital. 3 told him how it was with us but?" "Qh, Rod!" she cried. "You didn't give it to him? Not again!" "But Daphne," he pleaded, his eyes looking tragically old in his young face, "what else could I do? He had to have some money and there wasn't another soul he could turn to." "He'd have had to turn somewhere else if you hadn't given it to him," she answered stonily. "Everyone else comes first with you and it's your own family last. You know how badly I want this house. And we've worked so hard to make that down payment. When I think of how I've scrimped and saved?one nickel at a time?to get that three hundred dolJars and then you hand it over without even asking me. Now Jones will sell it to someone else." The first of the hot tears came, to be followed by many more. "There wasn't any need of asking you," said Rod tonelessly. "He had to have it. And he'll make every effort to pay it back." "He may have the best intentions in the world but it will be the same story over again," she retorted. "Your father intended to pay his back too, when he got the money for that extra piece of land." "But he will, just give him time," interrupted Rod. "Two years is quite a bit of time," said Daphne icily. "And then your sister had to have the next bit to go to New York." "But Jed only had a week's furlough and maybe it's the last time 194 she'll ever see him. I couldn't refuse ?not my own sister," he pleaded. "Don't I know it?" she snapped. "And now here it is again. And not even one of your own family. Next you'll be handing out our savings to every acquaintance that comes along and happens to be in a tight pinch and I never will have a home of my own or any security. Well, I'm not going to stand for it. I'll get out and earn my own money and keep it where your relatives can't get their hand's on it." It was at this point that Rod, white-faced and shaken, had risen from the table, without ever having touched his lunch, and gone out of the house, and now Daphne, in her agitation, sat rocking the baby and giving vent to her angry thoughts and emotions by talking aloud to the baby. REALIZING, half unconsciously, that she would have to act quickly while her resolve was supported by anger, she set the baby down in his crib, brought out a couple of suitcases and started to pack. She was interrupted by the ringing of the doorbell, and hastily dabbing a bit of powder over the tell-tale streaks on her face, she picked up the baby and went to the door. She drew a quick sigh of relief when she saw that it was Sister Mortensen, the visiting teacher. She was such a pleasant, understanding soul. Just the sort of person to whom she could tell her troubles?if she knew her a little better?or if this were the sort of thing that she could tell to anyone. "Do come in," she said, opening the door, and while her guest was being seated she smoothed the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 baby's clothing and her own feelings at the same time. "T love to come here," said Sister Mortensen, sinking down intoa large chair. "It's such a delightful room. I believe you said that you were thinking of buying the house." "Yes?we were thinking of it," replied Daphne, a bit unsteadily. "But I'm afraid we've changed our minds " now "Oh, dear! I do hope that you aren't going to move away," exclaimed Aline. "I'd be terribly sorry to lose you from my district. It's such a pleasure to know a fine, normal young family like yours in these days of change and divorce." "Yes," agreed Daphne hesitantly, "there is more divorce now than in your day, but perhaps times are different?perhaps there is more reason for it now." "Bosh, child, times are no different and people are no different. I guess there've been mighty few couples that it didn't take a lot of stamina and forgiveness and just plain intestinal fortitude to stick a marriage out?what with _ taxes, measles and plumbing repairs always cropping up at the wrong time." "But not you, I'll bet," ventured Daphne with a smile. "You look so good-natured and even-tempered that I imagine an'. Earthquake wouldn't upset you." "Yet, even I ran home to my mother once," she returned with a chuckle. "That is, I went part way before I realized how silly I was behaving and turned back. And it was all on account of a sick dog that Henry brought home and was nursing on my best satin living room pillow. I still want to laugh when | THE BEST LITTLE SHRuB 195 think about It but I was Plenty upset be tearing his hair out jg I'm late at the tim getting home p njoyed visiting Daphne took off the baby's Shoes th you again," 80 that he could le his toes lux "Thank YOu, it's be nice having unously d, lowered ?s, you Call," Teturned D as she asked, "But there are times?don't Walked with her guest + ? door you think, when 4 Couple js Justified The Nute j? Closed she In S?parating?" Tushed back to the b om and put "Per 4PS, On very rare Occasions MMy in his cx with such violence ut, my 800dness, wha 4 Woman, 0 that he Sent fo Protesting niek er, will ?n she lifteg her h If-fille Suit. Sve up for what IS called 'freedom,' Case to the cedg Chest and Started to all the love and heartach ? JOYS and unpack, J Only a Matter of sorrows, that g0 into the aking of a minutes before } T dresses Were once full life The person ho hasn't h d more hanging the closet and other 4 chance tg Petience some of the things rety d their Toper Cartaches has Missed g Wwonderf,] Places in th dresser drawers Chance for growth." "It's a 800d thing that I didn't 'Tm sure Oure right," Said have time to Pack your stuff, uster," Daphne, quietly pattin Jimmy's 9. She said h th dorably Plump little Je ere | L s Pushed the Other Suitcase out of sight, ith that #?complished, ME?ssage,"" sai Aline, sud. D denly diving j t ?n floor or dig u i 4 patch of the aCK yard before you to Nd, not the giver Nor the do anything diculous nd don't sift, but need and joy ? person orget," she continy Who is to 5 the Tecipient of one's love and good ull The baby gurgled happily and ? then went back ? ini e; Pink toes. Daphne Walked aphne, dropping her head to the dressing table and brushed her baby's So that Visitor Wouldn't soft... ) Gainsborough Painting, and Henry Pretends to * Re & y 196 Aline glanced hastily at her watch as she came down the walk from the away generous Pieces, Don't that's the celery?or lettuce, What RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?Marcy 1946 kind of an afternoon did you have? Any hing new on the beat?" "On the distri e commented, han Ng Over the Paring knife. T a pine, Darling, Just a she reminded him with q PATTERN Eleanor Welch Schow I Father, the world Is filled with Pain and Woe, y night the terror walks; ? hearts of men wax Y day; gaunt hunger 5 he weak den, the orchards be d In gorgeous colors blend cold; the aITOw flies talks Ith grasses &teen, like orient Carpets spread t PATTERN II Over a hundred years ago, a Prophet called A smal] assembly, gathered in Christ's name To do the deeds of loving charity That everyone must do who dares to claim Christ as a brother, He revealed to them A plan, a call to women to unite In loving kindliness and sisterhood To help the erring find the Path of right. This way they passed along the stretch of years And grew in strength and knowledge every day; Today, one hundred thousand members march In strength of womanhood. This is no wraith Of something that has been; this sisterhood Has shown the world one hundred years of faith! The hearts of these fail not in times of stress, But bravely show the weak the way to cope With sin; they nurse the sick and aid the poor, Supported by one hundred years of hope. The lamps of loving kindness ever burn Behind them on the trail with clarity, To show the path their steady feet have trod, Throughout a century of charity, III Dear God, forgive the selfish ones who hoard their food While hungry children cry; Forgive the petty stores of pretty silks, ?n men must chill and die. Help us, as they, along the ways of want To let our light so shine That all may see and glorify thy name! May we true Christians be; Give us the eyes to see, the will to show Unfailing charity, To leave for all who follow through the strife This pattern along our path of life. 197 And For Eternity Olive Woolley Burt CHaPTER 10 (Conclusion ) HE spring days floated by as lightly as almond blossoms, each one filled with the perfume of growing things and the sweetness of spring breezes?but each one bringing closer the day when Alec's and Jim's leave would end. Now Alec begrudged the hours that Delsa spent with Jeff Holden's children. "Don't go over there tonight, Delsa," he would beg. "I've such a few days left. Let's go riding up to our boulder." Sometimes she would listen to his pleading and would barely glance in on the children and then would hurty home, slip into her rodeo pants and plaid shirt, saddle and bridle Blue Star, and meet Alec. 'Then they'd ride, galloping along the road, cutting across the brush-covered flat, urging their horses up the steep canyon paths. Delsa liked these afternoons best of all, because while they were riding Alec looked almost completely happy. Of course, when they stopped, he was bound to look gloomily into the future, but often she could think of places to go that were far enough away so that they had no time for these pensive talks. At other times Delsa would have to stay at Jeff's till quite late, taking care of the youngsters, soothing Mrs. Reeder's ruffled spirits. Davy, though still a baby, was almost more than the tactless and inexperienced woman could handle. Page 198 Delsa understood what was wrong with the little boy?no, not wrong with him?but what caused him to act as he did. It was spring. The warm air invited the youngster to come outdoors and play. And he would answer that invitation, playing until he was too weary to mind what he was told, too utterly worn out to obey even the simplest com-- mands, and Mrs. Reeders commands were not always simple. Then again, the spring thaw made many fascinating mud puddles, and Davy could not keep his hands and feet out of the inviting mixture. 'T'his made extra work for his guardian, and extra work meant irritability. So, very often when Delsa went to the little house she found Davy in tears, and Mrs. Reeder scolding. It took time to bring order out of this chaos, and Delsa would forget that Alec was waiting impatiently while she bathed the little boy, gave him warm supper, and got him into bed. Trudy, still too young to make the mischief her brother made, and yet old enough to care for herself a little, was a different kind of worry to Delsa. Mrs. Reeder would put the baby in her pen and leave her alone for hours. Because she was a good baby and happy under most circumstances, she was left alone too much, and Delsa could think of hundreds of accidents that might happen to the child. The truth was, Delsa admitted to Alec one night when he was scolding her for neglecting him, the children AND FOR ETERNITY were becoming so dear to Delsa that she hated to be away from them. She might chafe at the responsibility that included keeping Mrs. Reeder happy, but the care of the children was sheer pleasure. BETWEEN Jeff and Delsa had risen an icy barrier of reserve. Jeff seldom came into the house while Delsa was there, but as it was planting time and he had his farm to care for as well as his job, his staying outside until after she left was excusable. At school he talked to her quietly, friendly enough when there was soething that had to be said; the rest. Of the time he left her to herself. One afternoon Alec was waiting outside the schoolhouse when Delsa came out on her way to Jeff's. "Listen, Delsa," he said eagerly, "let's saddle the horses and ride down the valley this afternoon. Jim's been telling me about an old Indian that lives out about four miles and I want to see him. A real Indian! I don't know why no one ever told 22 me about him before! "Old Chickup!" laughed Delsa. "I guess no one thought he was worth telling about. We never even think of him." "Jim says he has a wonderful collection of authentic arrowheads. I do want to see them, Delsa. Let's go. Youcan show me the way." Delsa shook her head. "I'd love to, Alec, but I can't tonight. I promised Davy that if he'd be a good boy today I would show him how to make windmills like the first graders. I can't disappoint him." "You can disappoint me, though," 199 Alec said sulkily. 'Look, Delsa, you'll have those kids to tend as long as you want them. I think Jeff Holden has imposed on you long enough. He can hire someone to tend his kids for him and not tie you down this way all the time. Tell him you're not coming tonight." "Tt isn't Jeff's fault that I go over there, Alec," Delsa said soberly. "I really think Jeff would be glad if I didn't have to come, but I do have to. He can't get anyone else. You know for yourself how busy everyone is. "Don't I, though!" grumbled Alec, and added angrily, "If I could have found anyone else to show me, I wouldn't have bothered you, knowing that you'd rather play nursemaid." "You're being childish, Alec," Delsa said quietly. "T've really got pe) to hurry! "Well, hurry then; nothing's stopping you!" he answered shortly, and turned and walked swiftly away. Delsa felt as if he had actually slapped her, and her face burned with anger and resentment and shame as she ran down the road to Jeff's house. Davy hadn't been a good boy, she found when she entered the house, and Mrs. Reeder, exasperated beyond her forbearance, had taken matters into her own hands. Delsa found Davy sobbing as if his heart would break and when she went to pick him up she cried out in anger and surprise. He was tied to the table leg with a short length of rope ?tied so tightly that the rope cut into his fat little middle, obviously hurting him. Delsa's hands were shaking as she 200 undid the rope, and, with the child in her arms, went to the kitchen to face Mrs. Reeder. D=ELS4: was so angry that she took no pains to hide her feeling, and Mrs. Reeder, evidently chagrined at the justice of Delsa's complaint, took refuge in her old challenge. "You ain't my boss, Miss Delsa, and you can't talk to me that way. I got along all right with Jeff till you came buttin' in, and I don't aim to stand and listen to you any longer. I'm quitting!" She grabbed her shawl from its peg and threw it over her head and walked majestically out of the house. Delsa sat down in the kitchen rocker and held Davy close. She had butted in. And now she had lost Jeff's only help. Well, there was nothing she could do about it just yet, though she would have to find a way to make things right later. She comforted Davy and picked up Trudy from her play pen to find the baby wet and cold and unhappy. Delsa set to work in her usual brisk way and almost forgot her anger at Mrs. Reeder and at Alec as she held the tiny body close and whispered _ comforting words to the whimpering child. She was so busy that when she heard the door open she thought only that Jeff had come in. She started in surprise when she heard Alec's voice, "Delsa, I'm sorry. I've come to apologize." "That's all right, Alec," Delsa said. "I suppose you do think it's unnecessary for me to put so much time in over here, but if you only knew the truth of it! If you only knew Mrs. Reeder!" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 Alec came across the room, and Delsa was so absorbed in her task that she didn't think how strange it was for the marine to be using Jeff's house so freely. "Where's Jeff?" Alec asked, and Delsa said without looking up, "He's outside, plowing, I guess. I hardly ever see him," she added, scarcely knowing she did so. Delsa put the last spoonful of mush into Trudy's mouth, wiped the baby's face and hands on a damp napkin, untied her bib, and sat back in the low rocker to cuddle the little girl for a moment or two before putting her into her crib. Alec stood above her, looking down, smiling in a queer sort of way. "You look like a madonna, sitting there, Delsa," he said huskily. Delsa laughed. "T don't feel much like one. I have been so angry?I've scared Mrs. Reeder clear away, and I'm afraid it's for good." She rose and carried Trudy into the bedroom and laid her down gently. "Go to sleepy-bye, darling," she whispered, and turned to leave the room. Alec had followed Delsa in, and now he said, putting his arms about her, "Delsa, darling, now the kid's asleep, you can break away, can't you?" Delsa drew back sharply, saying, "Don't, Alec!" He looked at her and anger began to burn in his eyes again. '"What's the matter?" he asked gruffly. "What's so horrible about me putting my arms around you? I've done it often enough, haven't ir' AND FOR ETERNITY DELSA had been surprised at her own reaction. She had never before felt the dislike toward Alec that she felt at that moment. It was almost as if he had asked her to be unfaithful..... Delsa caught her breath at the thought that had sprung into her mind. She looked up at Alec and the wonder of her discovery gave a special glow to her eyes. "Delsa!" he cried, forgetting his anger in the radiance of that look. "Please go, Alec!" she said, and there was such finality about the request that Alec turned slowly, unquestioningly, and left the house. Delsa went into the kitchen. She wanted to sing and dance. She caught Davy up from the chair where he had been busy making his pinwheel, and held him close, kissing him. Then she set him down again, took Mrs. Reeder's abandoned apton from the nail behind the door and set to work to get Jeff's and Davy's supper. Davy laughed in delight at her. "You look funny in that apron!" he said. 'You look like a?a?",, he couldn't think of a word. "A good old witch!" Delsa said, laughing back at him. "A good old witch that's going to get supper now for Davy and his daddy. Do you want to help, Davy?" It was growing dark in the kitchen and Delsa lighted the kerosene lamp, smiling to think that Jeff's house was so old-fashioned. Then she remembered that it was off the main line and she thought, as soon as the war's over, he can have a line run up here, I guess. Davy was putting the knives and forks on the table and Delsa was at 201 the stove with her back to the door when Jeff came in. She heard the door shut and turned, but she was in the shadow and Jeff hardly looked at her. Davy ran to his father. "Daddy! Daddy!" he cried, "Aunt Delsa's here. She's getting supper! I'm helping her!" Jeff turned then, and looked at Delsa, as she stood there in front of the stove with Mrs. Reeder's apron almost hiding her. "Delsa!" he said "What's the matter? Where's Mrs. Reeder? Delsa thought his voice was harsh, and her own voice caught a little as she went toward him. "Oh, Jeff! I'm so sorry! But I got angry at Mrs. Reeder and she left?for good, I'm afraid." Jeff looked at her blankly. "Tll help, Jeff, until she comes back or we find someone else. That's why I stayed tonight to get your supper. It's all ready." She was trying to appear nonchalant, calm, but there was a strange radiance in her heart. Jeff turned without a word and went into the bathroom to wash. When he came out, Delsa was leaning over Davy, putting some hot scrambled eggs onto his plate. She straightened up, the serving dish still in her hands. Jeff stood just inside the doorway. He looked at her with such a strange intensity that Delsa set down the dish she was holding and went across the room and stood in front of him. "Delsa," Jeff said quietly, "I appreciate all you have done. But you had better go now." His voice broke suddenly. "I can't bear to have you here like this and not?" 202 GUDDENLY his arms went around her and he was holding her tight against him. He bent his head, pressing his lips against her hair. "Delsa! Delsa! I love you so! I can't bear to have you near me and know that you do not love me!" Delsa lifted her face to his and the same wonder that had dazzled Alec an hour before now shone out, unafraid. "But I do love you, Jeff! Oh, I do!" Jeff's arms dropped to his sides and he leaned back against the door frame, as if he needed some support to steady him in what he was going to do. | "No, Delsa," he said firmly, "you don't love me. You feel sorry for me, maybe, and I know you love the children?but not me!" Delsa put her hands 6n his shoulder, lifted herself on tiptoe, her lips raised. "Kiss me, Jeff! Kiss me, and you'll know that I love you?truly, deeply, as a woman should love the man she marries." Unbelief stood stark in his eyes as he whispered, "You don't mean? you can't mean?" "Jeff, listen. You need so much convincing. Alec was here a little while ago. He put his arms about RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 me, here in your house, and I felt so alarmed?I thought to myself, it is just as if he had asked me to be unfaithful to my husband?because I was thinking of you, Jeff, though I didn't know it. I do want to marry you, Jeff?I've loved you so long only I didn't know it, Jeff! I didn't know it!" Jeff didn't need any more convincing. His arms went close around her, he kissed her uptumed face and she answered his kisses and he knew then that her whole heart was his. And Delsa, standing in the circle of his arms, feeling Jeff's kisses, was at last content. Gone were her doubts and fears, her anxiety over what others might say or think. There was only Jeff?Jeff and the babies, and later, of course, other babies of her own. This was what she wanted, above everything else in life and in etemity. Her hands went to Jeff's head, felt the soft, thick hair, pressed his head down toward her. Her lips were on his. They were oblivious to everything but this moment of surrender. Then Davy ruthlessly startled them, crying, "Supper's getting cold, Aunt Delsa! Come 'n eat!" Laughing, hand in hand, Delsa and Jeff went to the table and sat down in the circle of light from the little lamp. ? CALL OF SPRING Beatrice K. Ekman Over the sodden fields, the March winds blow, And dormant seeds within the wet, cold sod, Long under cover of the winter's snow, Stir, as the warm sun sends its rays abroad. Soon now we'll hear again the sweet refrain Of mourning doves' soft cooing in the lane. _ OFS. Lady-inWaiting Marguerite J. Griffin HE little old lady was so small T and slight that she hardly made a swell in the bed covI wondered what I would say to her, meeting her for the first time this way. Her granddaughter whom I was visiting would not let me leave until. I had seen her. "For she will not be with us long, you know. She is very old, almost ninety-five. She isn't sick. Her body is just wearing out, becoming weaker and weaker. There isn't much for her to do, just waiting like this, and she has always loved people. Seeing you will brighten her whole day." This suggestion did not make me happy. I dreaded going into her room. I had always thought old age at best was a tragic time of life. And now to meet a human being who was just waiting for her mechanism to stop functioning, who was waiting for death to walk in at her door? But there was nothing I could do. I couldn't refuse if I might brighten one last moment. But how? What should I say to her? I had worried needlessly. I realized that the moment I saw her bright brown eyes twinkle at me from the wrinkled parchment of her cheeks. They told me at once that within her frail body was a spirit very much alive and alert. Her hands upon the counterpane were almost as white as the cover, and transparent so that the blue veins were plainly visible. Her hair was white like soft wavy strands of silk, a little scanty, but gently circling her face. She patted the locks in place as her bright eyes looked up at me eagerly. A smile scattered the wrinkles into new places but filled her countenance with a warm glow. "Sit down, my dear." Her voice was a little thin and tremulous. "I'm so pleased to meet you. You look so full of life. I bet you have children to care for." "Yes, three of them. But sometimes I don't feel so full of life." "They are wearisome, the little ones. But it's the happiest time of your life. Still, I don't know. All of life is good. I've seen a lot of it, too, my dear. And there's nothing quite like grandchildren and greatgrandchildren, and even great-greatgrandchildren. Oh, I'm very old, you know. I've seen a lot of things, a lot of change." Her voice faded away as if her thoughts were traveling faster than she had the power of speech to convey them. Then suddenly she started on another subject. "Jenny," she said to her granddaughter, "show the lady my new dress." A new dress at her age, in her bedridden condition? It was fantastic. Was there vanity still left, after all these vears, in this little gnarled creature? Jenny brought it as if there were nothing unusual in the request. It was white silk crepe, dainty with lace. I know astonishment was on my Page 203 204 face, for the old lady said: "It's my burial gown, you know. And ['ll be wearing it soon." THE words were so gentle I couldn't gasp, but my heart was beating fast. It was the strangest thing I had ever seen. A beautiful gown like a bride's, and the little old lady positively anticipating the wearing of it. "Show her the rest, Jenny. The slip and the stockings. "You seem surprised. Maybe you hadn't thought the resurrection would be such a practical affair, but it will. There is no death really, only a change, a separation. The spirit leaves the body until the morning of resurrection." I could see why she could be so calm with a philosophy like that. I could see why her granddaughter was so sweet, so patient in her attentions toward the old lady. "It is a beautiful belief," I said. "Not a belief, my dear, but a truth." Her words were calm and quiet. She was not filled with the fire of a fanatic, but she was sure of her convictions. Besides, I didn't want to argue with her. I envied her peace of mind, her assurance. "It's a wonderful story, the story of man," she went on. "It's the story of change and progression, and we must be ready for each new thing. We lived before we came to this world, you know. Before this world was built. Our spirits were sons and daughters of God our eternal Father, and we lived with him." There was a soft glow on her face. Her eyes were mellow almost as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 if the vision were before them, or, as if being so close to death, to returning from whence she came, she caught the gleam and could remember. Then she looked at me quickly, as if sensing my thoughts. "It's all in the Bible, you know. It's not something I've made up. It's there, but the world tries to explain it away. Man thinks he is so great and, being a son of God, he does have a noble heritage. But can he hope to understand the business of our Heavenly Father any more than a child can understand the works of his earthly father? A toddler cannot comprehend how his mother makes cookies, but he accepts them, none the less, and munches upon them happily. So should we eat of the Bread of Life. So should we accept it, without worrying about how it will be accomplished. God has spoken. That should be enough. Jenny, hand me my Bible and my glasses." HAT! Could this little shrunken creature still use her bright eyes to read? What a blessing when she loved the Book so much! You could tell the gentle way she handled its worn pages. You could tell she had spent a lifetime reading it, for she found her passages with ease. "Listen to the words of the Lord to Job: "Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? Declare if thou hast understanding.' " Her sharp eyes peered at me over the spectacles as if she were challenging me to answer. "When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy,' we were there LADY-IN-WAITING and we were that glad over the earth the Lord was building for us." She closed her book and removed her glasses. "But time is short, my dear. We are born, we live and grow, and just as we reach our prime, when our mental powers are at their best, our bodies wither, wane and die. It is as Paul says." And now she was quoting her scripture from memory. If there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen.... And if Christ be not risen, then is your faith vain.... If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. But now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the first fruits of them that slept..... For he must reign, till he hath put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death..... Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? I was speechless. I, who had come in to brighten an old lady's moment, 205 had found it was she who had so much to give. She misinterpreted my silence. "But I'm sorry. I've tired you with my preaching. You must forgive ime." "Oh, no. I must thank you very much." For even then I knew I would never forget her. What a triumph to gtow old so gracefully, and even in her weakness be a source of strength to all who came her way! When next I saw her, and it was not very long after, she lay in state, daintily gowned in the dress whose beauty was its purity of color, its simplicity of style. Every lock of her white hair was neatly in place. Her hands, unadorned save for a heavy gold wedding band, lay quiet and at rest. Death had softened her features as if it had been welcome. No bride ever looked more lovely. It was as if she slept ever so gently, just waiting for her Master's voice to bid her rise. Oa SPRINGTIME IN THE WEST Lydia Hall Bright spots of heaven shining through The petals of a blossomed tree, A greening field whence, throbbing, comes The lark's loud song of ecstasy; The changing crimson of a hill Agleam with rain and flowers bright, A well-loved river's wide expanse Reflecting shadows and the light; The scented fingers of the sage Upon the desert's sunburnt breast, The pulse of life and loveliness, And springtime comes again?out West. 'SX FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. MESSAGES FROM THE MISSIONS (Continued) Finland District, European Mission HE following excerpts are from a recent report from Europe sent to Elder Thomas E. McKay: "The acting Mission President, Elder C. Fritz Johansson and Elder Claus A. Person from Malmo, accompanied by Sister Astrid Johansson, a representative from the Mission Relief Society Board, made a journey to Finland August 7, 1945. "Journeyings in Finland are at present very fatiguing on account of heavy railroad traffic, worn-out equipment, engines and cars being in repair, and facilities at hand being far below the needs. 'The crowding of cars forced our party to stand up one whole night. "However, to the good and faithful saints in Larsmo Branch, situated close to Jacobstad, it was a great joy when the travelers arrived August 10, at 5:28 a. M. A special meeting was held on Saturday, the 11th, under the direction of the acting mission president. The first Relief Society in Finland was organized. A glorious spirit reigned, and often our thoughts turned to the day when the first Relief Society in the world was organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith. "The Spirit of God Like a Fire is Burning' was sung and prayer Page 206 was offered by Elder Claus A. Person, after which 'If the Way Be Full of Trial Weary Not' was sung. "Acting Mission President C. Fritz Johansson thereupon greeted the saints present and Sister Astrid Johansson spoke of her appreciation of the opportunity to come to Larsmo to assist in organizing a Relief Society. She invoked the guidance of the Lord upon all present and explained that the purpose of the Relief Society organization was to help and to serve the members and our fellow men and to disseminate light and sunshine in a dark and dismal world. "The following points were discussed: 1. The fundamental aims of the Society. 2. The proper organization, president, counselors, and secretary. 3. The duties of teachers. 4. Meeting regulations. 5- Manuals. 6. The use of the help fund. 7. Reports and yearly dues. 8. Dressing the dead. G. Unity of board members. 10. The slogan: 'And above all these things put on chanty, which is the bond of perfectness' (Coloss. 3:14) was read. "Sisters were thereupon appointed to the different offices in the organization they had just completed and NOTES FROM THE FIELD were set apart in the branch meeting the following day. All expressed their joy and appreciation for the privilege of working in the Lord's cause, knowing that if they sought God in prayer, he would assist them and the work would go forward. Elder Berg said this was such an organization as they had been longing for, and he appreciated the visit of the mission authonities. "Be Ever Glad, Ye Daughters of Zion' was sung by Sisters Viola and Inga Ronnkvist, Vera Numan, and Georgina Back. Elder Claus A. Person spoke on the work of the Relief Society, a labor of love which will be written in the Book of Life. "Acting Mission President C. Fritz Johansson was the final speaker. He referred to the important event when. The Prophet Joseph Smith in the name of the Lord turned the key for this Society. Brother Johansson wished the sisters success in their work. The meeting closed with singing 'O Lord, Let Me Come to Zion's Land' and the benediction was pronounced by Elder J. Viktor Berg. All felt that the spirit of God was present in rich abundance and our hearts were filled with thanks to God for our membership in his Church. Besides the authorities from Sweden, those present were: Branch President J. Viktor Berg and the First Counselor Anselm H. Stromberg. The following were appointed to preside over the Relief Society: Sister Anna Stromberg, President; Sisters Johanna Soderholm and Inez Ikalainen, First. And Second Counselors, respectively; Viola Ronnkvist, Secretary-Treasurer; Inga Ronnkvist, Assistant Secretary; Sisters Georgina Back and Inez Ikalainen to act as teachers in Jacob- 207 stad, and Sisters Lena Renlund and Viola Ronnkvist to act as teachers in Larsmo." North Central States Mission ANN J. KILLPACK, President of the North Central States Mission, reports a mothers' and daughters' banquet, a social, and an old folks' party: MOTHERS' AND DAUGHTERS' BANQUET BILLINGS BRANCH "As a fitting climax for the year's Relief Society activities, sisters of the Billings Branch met together May 29, 1945 at a mothers' and daughters' banquet at which more than a hundred were in attendance. One of the oldest mothers present was Sister Mercy Elery who was a convert to the Church four years ago. This dear sister is very faithful in Church activity and many times has expressed her joy and gratitude for having been privileged to live long enough to find the true Church of Christ. She is now making plans to go to the temple to take out endowments. "Relief Society officers, Lucy Call Taylor, President; Johanna Sanderson, First Counselor; Edna B. Collins, Second Counselor; and Mary Grebe, Secretary, feel very grateful for the fine spirit of co-operation manifest among class leaders and fellow members. A great deal has been accomplished through this combined co-operation of the sisters. Visiting teachers have been very active and have awakened active participation among a large percentage of the branch membership. A_ Singing Mothers' group is very active and has contributed much toward musi- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 BILLINGS (MONTANA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY North Central States Mission, Mothers' and Daughters' Banquet Photograph submitted by Ann J. Killpack, President, North Central States Mission Relief Societies. Cal entertainment, and the branch organization attained placement on the honor roll of The Relief Society Magazine. All of this has been accomplished through combined effort and co-operation which is the spirit of all true Latter-day Saint women." MOTHERS' AND DAUGHTERS' SOCIAL "The ladies of the Minneapolis Branch Relief Society entertained at a mothers' and daughters' social Wednesday, June 27, 1945. An invitation to attend was also graciously extended to the fathers and sons. The crowd was delightfully entertained by a program of poetry, dancing and music. Later they re tired to the recreation room where a tasty luncheon was served, and some danced to polka music. This was especially fitting as most of the members are from Scandinavian countries. "This social terminates what has been a very successful year of Relief Society activities. The sisters are especially proud of a rummage sale which they recently held. This sale netted them a profit of $103.84. All of the goods sold was donted by the sisters in the branch. A willingness to serve is manifest by all, and this is the true spirit of Relief Society work." OLD FOLKS' PARTY MINNEAPOLIS BRANCH "The ladies of the Minneapolis NOTES FROM THE FIELD Branch who were over sixty years of age met together at the North Central States Mission Home, March 22, 1945, for an afternoon of renewing friendships with sisters in the gospel. Ten of the thirteen women in attendance were converts. Most of them had heard the gospel in foreign lands and had given up friends, family, and all they held dear there to join the Church and come to the land of Zion, yet none of them felt that the sacrifice was too great, for through the gospel, they have learned to know real joy. They are happy in the knowledge that they have found the true Church of Christ. These sisters have been very faithful in Relief Society and other auxiliary work and are very regular in their attendance RES Sg OM... Fl 209 when the weather and their health permit. "An afternoon's entertainment and refreshments were provided by President William L. Killpack; his wife, Ann Jane Killpack, Mission Relief Society President; and missionaries Norma Baldwin, Marjorie Yeates, and Caroline Stucki." Northern California Mission MARY S. ELLSWORTH, President of the Northern California Mission Relief Society, reports: "Salinas, like twelve other branches in the mission, is doing all it can to assist the priesthood in obtaining money for a new church building. I think throughout the mission that they all realize how much better 4 MINNEAPOLIS (MINNESOTA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY North Central States Mission, Old Folks' Party. Standing, left to right: Ellen Johnson, Helen Novak, Betsy Holm, Eliza Stevens, Mary Swenson, Ingborg Malmgren, Laura Servold, Gunda Larsen. Seated, left to right: Emily Titze and Olive Larson. Photograph submitted by Ann J. Killpack, President North Central States Mission Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 Pope creer agama ? ao 4 a "Se ? a 4 7" me "ly SANTA ROSA (CALIFORNIA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Northern California Mission, Singing Mothers. Front row, left to right: Judith Lindelof, First Counselor, Santa Rosa Branch Relief Society; Agnas Gross, President; Ada May Wilson, Second Counselor, and Pearl Ferris, Secretary-Treasurer. Center row, left to right: Effie Christian, Martha Fisher, Mary Corl, Mabel Shick, and Anna Lindgren. Back row, left to right: Jessie Stubbs, Grace McPeak, and Mary Sanders. Photograph submitted by Mary S. Ellsworth, President Northern California Mission Relief Society missionary work can be accomplished with a church of their own. As President German E. Ellsworth said, "The hall is not a church. The meetings held in it seem to be just group meetings. All are determined, as soon as the priority is lifted, to have money ready to do something toward their own church building. "The sisters of the Salinas Branch gave a dinner, charging $5.00 a plate, and they were enabled to clear $215. During the summer months they are having a luncheon at each other's homes, taking their husbands and whoever else will join them, charging them fifty cents each and the other day they cleared $40." Sunderland, Durham (British Mission ) MARGARET WALKER of Sunderland, Dutham, England, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 211 SALINAS BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY, NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, Building Fund Dinner given by the Salinas Branch Relief Society, March 17, 1945. Photograph submitted by Mary E. Ellsworth, President Northern California Mission Relief Society writes a summary of conditions in own, and, we hope, are progressing. The Relief Society of her district: The sisters appear to be receiving "In spite of war conditions, our The Relief Society Magazine more Relief Societies are still holding their regularly now." We protest earnestly and with determination. We protest existing policies which encourage the consumption of liquor, with all the far-reaching consequences of that consumption. We protest the expansion of the liquor traffic and its freedom from the reasonable restrictions which would contribute to reconversion. We protest the use of thousands of tons of raw materials in making intoxicants. ?Deets Picket, from The Voice, December 1945. Ze Work Meeting = ??? Save Shose Precious Scraps 6sT)yON'T throw away your tiny print scraps until you have seen this quilt pattern," says Sister Ivie H. Jones, Relief Society President of the Spanish American Mission. "Whether it be called a 'String Quilt Block,' because it uses those long, narrow wedge-like strings from the side of skirt gores, etc., or whether it be called "The Scrap Bag,' "The Four Point Star,' or 'Economy Quilt Block,' it is a very practical way to use those tiny, irregular scraps that are too precious to throw away and yet too small to cut up into other types of quilt blocks. In fact, the smaller and more irregular the scraps, the prettier the finished quilt will be. It really might be called the 'Prism,' for the octagon wheel, made of the print scraps, looks pretty much like a prism of different shapes, sizes, and colors. "Making this quilt is especially suitable as a Relief Society project, since the sisters can work on the blocks at home and be assured that they will all be the same size when finished, and that is quite an item. But it is like seeing the Carlsbad Caverns or the Grand Canyon. No one can properly explain its beauty. You'll just have to see it for yourself." Materials Needed: Sufficient wrapping paper to cut forty squares, 1314x1314". (Newspaper is not satisfactory. ) Two yards plain colored material or two dyed flour sacks. However, the pattern adjusts itself nicely to any material on hand. Two yards will make strips 2" wide. 114 yards makes strips 114" wide, etc. Two feed or flour sacks (or mulsin) for the stars. Scraps of material. Page 212 WORK MEETING PAPER STEP NO. 1 Cut 40 squares of paper 1344" x 131%". Be accurate. This makes a quilt 72 x 90 inches finished. METHOD STEP NO. 2 Fold in half and cut on dotted line. Each triangle is a block. FOLDED MUSLIN STEP NO. 4 Fold muslin or flour sack (for stars) lengthwise. Press exact, fold again making six or eight folds, depending on width of muslin. FOLDED MUSLIN A STEP NO. 5 The width of the folded muslin (a-a) determines the width of the pattern for the star A-A. Use a ruler and mark with pencil A-C, leaving the width of one seam between C-C. STEP NO. 7 Place pattern No. 6 in exact center, mark with pencil. Fold pattern in half, reverse ends and utilize all material No. 7. 213 7 7 7 7 7 7 ?. STEP NO. 3 Fold in half again and crease at dotted line in order to get star in exact center of paper triangle. STEP NO. 6 Star pattern made from Step No. 5. STEP NO. 8 Now tear plain colored material or dyed flour sacks into strips lengthwise. If you have 2 yds. Material, make strips 2 in. Wide. If 1/2 yds., 14 in. Wide, etc. 214 STEP NO. 9 Pin muslin star onto paper, being sure star is in exact center of paper pattern. STEP NO. 12 Sew a scrap of print material as in No. 10. Fold back. Press and cut off to paper pattern. If strip is too wide, cut it down. Narrow. Uneven strips are prettier. There is a knack in removing the paper. Next to the stitching and paper can be easily removed. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 STEP NO. 10 Stitch on machine, over paper, a strip of plain colored material, being sure to sew in the edge of muslin star at the same time. '/ STEP NO. 11 Fold back and press. Trim to fit pattern. STEP NO. 13 Sew another strip of print on in same manner Material can be on straight or bias so long as seam stitching itself is straight. LY STEP NO. 14 Completely fill both points with prints. Trim off to paper pat- 'tern. Start at the point, take hold 2, By x xX 2. STEP NO. 15 Sew triangles B-D together, matching plain strip. Sew triangles E-F together Sew from X'to Y prarap y TENS OS serattnanstcantrantnk SA BACSACDSACINC yy, x ot a vas ' c fs K um RPOSEU RPP STEP NO. 16 Sew these large blocks together, making the quilt 4 blocks wide and 5 blocks long. This makes 12 full octagon '"'prisms," with half prisms on the edge. MARCH PROMISES Aileen M. Overfelt March winds are blowing, High, clear winds of spring, Mysterious with promise? Adventure on the wing. Promise of a primrose Blooming on a hill, Promise of an orchard Filled with robin's trill. Best of all, the promise In a woman's heart, To greet a man's returning From a foreign port. Voices in the high wind, Blow across the sea, Take this message to my love, "T will wait for thee." Page 215 216 Welcome Moon Handicraft Gift RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?MARCH 1946 NEW THINGS Belle Watson Anderson I like new things in spring, Such as tiny bows of blue The violet weaves into rosettes With beads of shining dew. I like new things in spring, Such as soft, pink eider down The apple blossom uses To make her petaled crown. I like new things in spring, Such as yards of willow laces Orchard fences use for veils To hide their wrinkled faces. Berore You BUY A BIBLE Look for the National trademark. It identiShop Make Your Selection For WEDDING, BIRTHDAY and GRADUATION GIFTS ? ? * Hand-hammered Copper Unusual Quilts Infants' and Toddlers' Clothes Original Design Bookends Water Colors Many other handmade gifts of distinction fies a well made book with helps that are really helpful? regardless of the edition you select. KING JAMES VERSION National BiBLes SINCE 1863 AT YOUR BOOKSTORE When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine bSrigham oung University is proud of its many ALUMNAE Who Serve As Officers And Teachers In The RELIEF SOCIETY SPRING QUARTER begins March 25 M: U's'IT-C SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY I LOVE A LITTLE COTTAGE (O'Hara) se 5 FLAG WITHOUT A STAIN (White) BLESS THIS HOUSE. 15 GOD IS LOVE (Shelley) - al ALICE BLUE GOWN (Tierney) _....20 PEACE I LEAVE WITH YOU (Roberts) _.. A ae.) 0) Above numbers in octavo. Less 10% discount plus postage. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 47 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 price of only... 44 East South Temple LATEST COMPLETELY REVISED EDITION BARTLETT'S FAMILIAR QUOTATIONS Edited by CHRISTOPHER MORLEY and LOUELLA D. EVERETT Priced regularly at $5 through many printings, this beautiful eleventh edition, with twice as many quotations as heretofore, is offered at the very special "Everyone who puts words on paper for others to read, everyone who speaks to an audience, even though it be an audience of three, needs 'Barilett.' "' ORDER YOUR COPY NOW! DESERET BOOK COMPANY "The Book Center of the Intermountain West" P. O. Box 958 et Salt Lake City 10 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine U. S. POSTAGE 2c Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 Prepare for Life' oe Years by investigating in a Beneficial Retirement Income Policy. INSURANCE (=) ? OMPANY HOME OFFICE??BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING SALT LAKE City 1. UTAH GEORGE ALBERT SMITH. PRESIDENT OLa33?NO 4 i aprilioac? THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of JesusChrist of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Gertrude R. Garff - - = - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering -. - - - Secretary-Treasurer Achsa E. Paxman Anna B. Hart Florence J. Madsen Blanche B. Stoddard Mary G. Judd Edith S. Elliott Luella N. Adams Evon W. Peterson Priscilla L. Evans Leone O. Jacobs Velma N. Simonsen P. Nibley Leone G, Layton RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Editorial Secretary i - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - = - = - - - Belle S. Spaftord Vol. 33 Contents SPECIAL FEATURES "Concerning Jesus of Nazareth": 219 An Aria for Easter The Infallible Spirit Our Number One Enemy?Cancer Vesta P. Crawford 229 Etta Mai Scott 237 Opinions on Alcohol Utah Division American Cancer Society 245 Selected 254 Magic Word Mary Ek Knowles 255 Digging For Happiness Elizabeth Adamson 260 Between the Dusk and the Dark Alice Whitson Norton 264 A Floral Symphony Betti Williamson 266 FICTION Faith Is a Heritage?Chapter I There Is Truth The White Picket Fence Emulating Grandmother The Scar Christie Lund Coles 233 Eva Willes a 238 Sarah O. Moss 256 Linda S. Fletcher 269 Martha Robeson Wright 275 GENERAL FEATURES. Editorial: ''Patient in Spirit'': Marianne C. Sharp 250 Congratulations to President Smith. 25} Notes to the Field: Relief Society No Longer to Share in Use of the Evenings of the Stake Quarterly Conference Sundays Notes From the Field: Messages from the Missions (Concluded) eneral Secretary-Treasurer, Margaret C. Pickering 279 POETRY Olive M. Nicholes 217 secestesensereeeeee-l VY Houtz Woolley 220 _.... Genevieve Van Wagenen 225 vecsareceecssesvscseesnesceesesenenteets lsDott J. Sartori 228 once Ruth H. Chadwick 232 Anna Prince Redd 236 senwensillRebecca Merrill Ostler 244.. Jo Adelaide Stock 253.. Katherine Fernelius Larsen 259 Return of Se Penis Springtime Knol Father, Forgive Them.................... When He Returns, Remembering........... When the Choir Broadcasts Aftermath 000 The Merrill Locust Tree - Voice of Cumorah................. Apple Tree in April. Spring Sonnet Gene Romolo 285 God Must Love the Beautiful... Mabel Jones Gabbott 286 PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 74,000 APRIL 1946 Before the Dawn Echoes of Hope Sixty Years Ago Woman's Sphere Work Meeting: Let's Make Dickies Offerings...-........ Se--e-c0-- Spring Shadows o. O. Nc. C. Oececececccececceeceeeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeeenaeeseeesesseseeeeeee SSBF osasecsacncsnorossesnecsnsnsnsonnsennscesasceecessevensecesvensceceeseesencunscaeseecentececseneceeesensees No. 4 Alice Morrey Bailey 221 Marguerite { Griffin 226 248 Ramona W. Cannon 249 287 Etta S. Robbins 274 Elsie E. Barrett 274 Beatrice K. Ekman 278 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE RETURN OF SPRING Olive M. Nicholes Orion waves his jewelled sword on high And marches onward with the frosty stars; Fair Venus rises in the evening mists And hangs her lantern in the April sky. The crocus stirs beneath the frozen clod, The river slips its crystal barricade; The warm earth stirs and lives and breathes again And pours its bounty in the hands of God. The pale narcissus blooms in dappled shade, Blue violets embroider woodland trails; Among the pussy willows by the brook The veery flutes his vernal serenade. Why should I tremble when the planets swing Their sure, celestial pathway through the stars, When blighted gardens and the frozen hills Pass on to blaze a trail for fragrant spring? Though mankind barters for his brother's soul? This do I know, if all the world forgets, That the eternal mind of man shall move With certitude, unhurried to its goal. The Cover: "Desert Roses" from a photograph by Dr. Walter P. Cottam VOL. 33, NO. 4 APRIL 1946 "ON THE WAY To EMMAUs" Tom a Painting by Plockhorst "Concerning Jesus of Nazareth" 6? A ND, behold, two of them went that same day to the village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about threescore furlongs. And they talked together of all these things which had happened. And it came to pass, that, while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them. But their eyes were holden that they should not know him. And he said unto them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another, as ye walk, and are sad? And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in these days? And he said unto them, What things? And they said unto him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people: And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and have crucified him. But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel: and beside all this, to day is the third day since these things were done. Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the sepulchre; And when they found not his body, they came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive. And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre, and found it seven so as the women had said: but him they saw not. Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken: Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they went: and he made as though he would have gone further. But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us: for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with them. Page 219 And it came to pass, as he sat at meat with them, he took bread, and blessed it, and brake, and gave to them. And their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he vanished out of their sight. And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us, while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures? And they rose up the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them, Saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon. And they told what things were done in the way, and how he was known of them in breaking of bread. And as they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you. (Luke 24:13-36) SPRINGTIME KNOLL Ivy Houtz Woolley God's carpet is a springtime knoll. The Master Weaver's best, A garden pattern on display, Superb from foot to crest. Aglow with green?bedecked with buds, And sunshine gleaming through, A mindful skill this carpet shows Beneath the sky's cool blue. My carpet is a springtime knoll, Bloom-spattered meads my shrine? I worship in this lovely place, This house of God's?and mine. 220 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL 1946 Before the Dawn Alice Morrey Bailey There is an hour of darkness in the night Beyond reflected rays of yesterday, Too eatly yet to catch the coming light Refracted from tomorrow' s newest rayhour is just PS ore the dawn, ght was the culminating pom is more matter of Mg night when their long figh was to and day, more than a certain num be given he test? ether this new ber of hours ch of light and dart medicine ould work on humans aS "and to shed the light of hope into might meat death. The darkness of despair. They fed him an ounce of pure 7 couragement \f-doubt at the medicine in with hypodermic, an soundless falling of cate ully built waited?One hour; two hours Noth structures ? ho d jar with this form of darkness. Banting, 2 obscure Canadian docA different type of "darkest hour" often comes to one who has was in his Jaboratory at the Univer paid too high a cost, and, having at sity of Toronto. With him were tained it, finds that it;. Dust and two ne was Charlie Best, ashes im hs hands. In this category his faithful helper through months are all who forfeit morality, virtue, a wee ? grilling research, OF honesty for people, possessions? ot nights of sleeplessness: and days of causes?things that may seem 1) an nxie Je they had ursued an of themselves to be fine nd desit elusive life-saving th that ha able. Come to Dr. Banting in 4 flash of inAnd yet "The leopard never spiration during the night of Octochanges his spots," 15 3 human docber 30, tw years before. The other tnine, foreign to the teachings of One man was Joe Gilchrist, Dr. Bantwho died between two thieves. Ing's deat friend, who was dying the Those who have gone beyond, the Page 22\ 222 moral boundaries are most in need of the helping hand. They have lost the power to discern tight from wrong; they are most dependent upon the clear and unselfish thinking of others, after floundering in a Se4 of confused values. Creative people are particularly prey to moods of exhilaration or despondency, S? much so that fits of "temperament" are expected of them. Perhaps itis because emotion is an integral part of creativeness, and emotion ls by turns a flatteret and a depressant, but never a Te liable pair of spectacles through which an artist may view his own creation. Robert Louis Stevenson, at Sherryvore, Bournemouth, England, once wrote feverishly for three days on a new story that had come to him in a dream?ten thousand words a day, while the household went about masterpiece, ished, called his wife and her son, Lloyd Osbourne, sn and read them the manuscript with an intensity that made shivers Tun UP and down Lloyd's spine. When Stevenson came to the end, gazing Up at them in triumph and self-satisfaction, waited for the outbreak of enthus!- asm from his wife, whose fine powers of criticism and analysis he relied upon. "Robert, you have missed the whole point," she said. "You've missed the whole allegory." angry, Lloyd trembling from the room, and his mother in tears to her apartment. Ee * *. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL 1946 RIGHTEOUS indignation at un just treatment is justifiable, but it is effective only when something can be done to relieve the situation, to undo the wrong: Henry Collins Brown sat in the hopelessness of an insane asylum contemplating suicide. He felt that death was a doot behind which were the mental door; that he had the power to tum it, with every reason to do so, and no good reason not to. He had lost his lifework. He had formerly been curator and founder of the Museum of the City of New York, into which position he had put the best years of his life. He had fought for the preservation of valuable historical relics, for a home in which to collect and care for them. He had delivered many learned lectures and solicited funds for the cause. For many ye" he had strug: gled against the indifference of people until he had accomplished his He knew that, whether he lived or died, the museum was established and the work would go On, It was then that the Museum officials decided he was too old for the job?he was sixty-five?and removed nim, supplanting him with a "popinjay" from the West, who had nevet seen New York, and who affronted the cultivated patrons of the institution. Dr. Brown went down un der the weight of these injustices an from overwork. He believed there was nothing left to live for; it was too late to start over again, and this seemed to be the end. BEFORE THE DAWN These are isolated pictures of seemingly different human crises, but they have some things in common, as all human beings have certain things in common. As mortal beings, all people are subject to disappointments and even defeats which are inevitably to be met in one form or another during our sojourn upon the earth. The bottom drops out of the bucket of hope. Nature betrays the young; death assails security. Each man may look at his neighbor with envy, thinking he sees a man with no burdens, no problems. The soldier returning with the loss of an eye or an arm does not see spiritual death, mental and moral cripples, in the physically whole. The beautiful dreams of aspiring souls?peace, brotherhood, wise parenthood, unselfish love and religious perfection?are more often ideals to strive toward rather than realities which are ours. Nevertheless, they must be striven for, because they can be achieved, and simply, too, by obedience to divine and eternal laws of truth. "He that loseth his life shall find it," said Jesus. Death was not the end for him, but a new and glorious beginning. The morning of the resurrection was sweet and fair. The brightest hour in human history was when Mary, stooping to peer into the tomb, saw the empty linens of death, the angels robed in white at the foot and head of the tomb, and when Jesus revealed himself to her, asking: "Woman, why weepest thou?" (John 20:11-16). The Son of Man was not only personally victorious over the great enemy of life on earth, he laid a pattern through death to life again that every mancan and will follow. 223 Moreover, the words of his wisdom, that fell some two thousand years ago on the ears of herdsmien and farmers, high priests and moneychangers, are still the patterns of wise living, and in no less measure applicable to men of today.... "And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free," he told them (John 8:32). X Ke K CHARLES Banting had been doing just that?seeking the truth to make men free. His story might well have ended on that night of September 11, 1922. The short time and sparse materials allotted to him for his research had been used long since. Any day now he would be dismissed by the more important heads of the institution, who had no patience with his harebrained idea anyhow. His thoughts were dark with discouragement as he boarded the train to go to his home. He didn't know that he had left too soon, that, back in Toronto, Charlie Best was saying: "Let's have another go at it, Joe," and that Joe was breathing much better, that suddenly, after months, his head was clear again and his legs had lost their heaviness?that he was able to eat a good supper, after which he took a stroll, grinning and "walking on air," as he put it. By the time of Banting's arrival at his home the news had been telephoned, and Banting was given the message that freed millions from death by diabetes?for Banting had discovered insulin. So narrow is the margin between success and failure! So small is the 224 moment when the heart touches bottom and wavers between disaster and the will to go on! Robert Louis Stevenson brooded for three days over his disappointment in his wife's verdict. Finally, he called her in, told her he had accepted her judgment, and, over her tearful protests, threw his feverishly written manuscript into the fire. If he tried to mend it, the result would be a patchwork of good and bad, he declared, so he was going to write it over! He wrote steadily for three more days, 10,000 words each day, and the tenth day after he had begun it, he sent off to the publishers the manuscript, replete with significance and rich with allegory, that lives to this day as one of the greatest stories ever to come from the pen of an author?Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. * ee * '<T can forgive, but I can't forget," is another fallacy humans cling to, though it is entirely foreign to the gospel of "seventy times seven." Dr. Brown, now gone down the long hall, beyond reach of human influence or the written word, reached toward the knob of suicide on the door of death, and, as he teached, he learned some eternal truths, notably that lack of controlled thinking had put him where he was, and that self-control was the only road back. He took that long way back, slipping many times, losing ground that had to be regained. With part of his mind "mislaid," the rest of it RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL 1946 went on functioning. He observed his fellow inmates and analyzed their difficulties. After three years at the Bloomingdale Hospital, Dr. Brown was a member of the free world once more. He carried with him a message of hope and encouragement from the most hopeless of all worlds, the world of the insane. He delivered lectures and gave verbal encouragement to hundreds who were in danger of losing their minds. At the age of seventy-five, his book A Mind Mislaid was published, a book particularly helpful to those subject to nervous breakdown, for in it are constructive truths that he learned at the doors of selfdestruction: No matter how hard it is, one must forget, and once having forgotten, it is not hard to forgive. There is absolutely no virtue in repining; there is positive harm and real danger in thinking back to what might have been. The gentle gospel of the Master of "Beginning Again" contains all the essentials of joyful, successful living, and his words about faith, repentance, and forgiveness?peace, and brotherly love?are not platitudes, as we sometimes regard them, but hard and fast rules by which men must live, or come to the grief of war, failure, self-destruction, and even the destruction of others. Despair and discouragement are the tools of evil, and they are too much at hand in the darkest hour. April, with its returning life, holding, as it does, the resurrection of the Savior, is truly an especial time for new beginnings. It is the bright morning after the dark night of winter.. Echoes of Hope Marguerite ]. Griffin HERE is peace in the scriptures, and purity of thought, poetry of form. There is poise for the perplexed, paeans of praise for the joyful, prophecy for the student, prayer for the tormented. There is strength in the scriptures, and sustenance for the soul, satisfaction for the heart. There is hope for a happier day, to which the anxious soul may cling as a weary bird to a haven of safety and refuge. Then read, O ye people who are weary and heavy-laden! Read the pages in which there is life, in which there is hope and strength, in which there is peace, the "peace which passeth all understanding," the peace that must first be born in the human heart before it can permanently live in the world of men. The kind of peace that alone can heal the bitter wounds of war, that alone can eliminate racial hatred and prejudice, that alone can make all people feel their brotherhood, their kinship. It is the peace that God, the Father of mankind, waits quietly to implant in the seeking heart. Though today the world suffers with the aftermath of war, I can find peace when I read the sacred word. I can keep that peace as a wall of strength about my vulnerable soul, only as I remember, only as I live by those words. I am weak. The winds of confusion, of fear, of pestilence, of death; blow hot upon my citadel. They 'scorch my defenses. They roar with terror in my ears. I must retum Page 226 again and again, and yet again, to the well which is never dry. I must drink cooling draughts from it, else I cannot bear the heat of this perplexing day. Over and over I must remind myself, as King David did long years ago, that "the Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want." There is solace in this song because it rings with an answering echo from the spoken words of the Man of Galilee whose sojourn among men, though brief, can never be forgotten. His lips spoke gentle comfort to all men everywhere. His words were meek and kind and understanding. His life was lived to fulfill his Father's will and was offered on the cross because of his great love for you and me. Think upon him for a moment, how he lived only to give the world one great message, the simple story of love, love of God and love of all men. The world listened. The world remembered. But the world has never wholly heeded the precept. Yet the memory of this Man has endured and will always endure as long as there are souls who love truth and freedom?as long as there are yet those who will read his words. Sit in the quiet of your room. Shut yourself in with the quiet precepts of this Jesus of Nazareth. Or, if your world has been blacked out, if all is dark around you, if your eyes have for the moment lost their vision, or if your Book is not at hand, let your heart repeat the ECHOES OF HOPE Christian's universal creed: "The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want." You know the words. Let them peal with the solemnity of sweet-toned bells, and before the sound of each line shall have died away, like an echo, you can hear the words of the Son of God, speaking again, as he did so long ago, words of assurance, words of hope, words of peace. Listen! You can hear them even now. THE LORD IS MY SHEPHERD; I SHALL NOT WANT. I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep. But. He that is an hireling, and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep and fleeth: and the wolf catcheth them, and scattereth the sheep. The hireling fleeth, because he is an hireling, and careth not for the sheep. I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known of mine. As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father: and I lay down my life for the sheep.... My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me: And I give unto them eternal life; and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My Father, which gave them me, is greater than all; and no man is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand (John 10: 11-15; 27-29). HE MAKETH ME TO LIE DOWN IN GREEN PASTURES: I am the door: by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, and find pasture (John 10:9). HE LEADETH ME BESIDE THE STILL WATERS. Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again: but whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life (John 4:13-14). HE RESTORETH MY SOUL: I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live (John 11:25). HE LEADETH ME IN PATHS OF RIGHTEOUSNESS FOR HIS NAME'S SAKE. If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.... For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul? For the Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels; and then he shall reward every man according to his works (Matthew 16:24-27). YEA, THOUGH I WALK THROUGH THE VALLEY OF THE SHADOW OF DEATH, I WILL FEAR NO EVIL: FOR THOU ART WITH ME; THY ROD AND THY STAFF THEY COM.- FORT ME. Fear not, little flock; for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom (Luke 12:32). Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? And one of them shall not fall on the ground without your Father. But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear ye not therefore, ye are of more value than many sparrows (Matthew 10: 29-31). And, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world (Matthew 28:20). THOU PREPAREST A TABLE BEFORE ME IN THE PRESENCE OF MINE ENEMIES: THOU ANOINTEST MY HEAD WITH OIL; MY CUP RUNNETH OVER. If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you. If ye were of the world, the world would love his own: but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you (John 15:18-19). SURELY GOODNESS AND MERCY SHALL FOLLOW ME ALL THE DAYS OF MY LIFE: AND I WILL DWELL IN THE HOUSE OF THE LORD FOREVER. 228 In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also (John 14:2-3). And then, like a benediction, I think I hear him praying, as he did when his life was so near its end, praying for you and for me. Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we are.... I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from evil.. O nghteous Father, the world hath not known thee: but I have known thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me. And RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL 1946 I have declared unto them thy name, and will declare it: that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in them (John 17: 11, 15, 25, 26). O hear, all ye people! Hear and remember the words of the Man who has redeemed you with his blood. Hear and understand the message in this greatest Book of books. Hear, not alone with the ears, but with the mind, the heart, the soul. Hear and be comforted! Hear and be strong! Hear the words that speak of life eternal, the words that tell of hope, glorious and tnumphant, of love, deep and everlasting. Hear and know! When there is hope for the future, there is strength for today! WHEN HE RETURNS, REMEMBERING Dott J]. Sartori After he has known suffering? This lad in khaki, in navy, in white? The thunder of hate, the rapier of greed, The heat and cold intemperate, After the white sheet of mercy is laid Cool and quiet across his wound, He will remember the Testament Where love was kindled and hate disowned. He will loose Christ from the printed Book, He will bring Easter against the tomb, When he returns, remembering, Back to this city and to this room. An Aria for Easter Vesta P. Crawford "I know that my redeemer liveth...." (Job. 19:25) HE greatest words in all the world, the most magnificent music?this has been said for almost two hundred years by the millions who have heard the faultless aria from Handel's Messiah. Particularly, in a time of change and uncertainty, it is not surprising that so many Christian people are finding new beauty and new strength in this Easter message. The words carry the simple, eternal beauty of scripture, "I know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth...." In these phrases there is no faltering, no question. Here is truth for the ages, for all who have doubted, for all who have believed. The music is a treasure that glows with brighter radiance through the years. Who was the matchless musician, the man Handel, who wrote this lofty and sacred music, who touched the utmost heights of composition? In the year 1685, a boy was born in Halle, Germany. His father said at once, "This child must be a lawyer. The shape of his head shows that he will have a great mind." His was a great mind, but not destined for the practice of law. Per. Haps, if he had become a lawyer, his name might long ago have been forgotten. Now, so long as music is repeated in the world, the name of George Frederick Handel will be imperishable. The young musician learned to play the harpsichord when he was only four years old and he was Teally no more than a child when he mastered the keys of the magnificent church organ in the Halle cathedral. This was the beginning of Handel's devotion to organ music. "The tones of the organ," he said, "bring harmonies from the immortals, and surely the angels are near when the great organ sings its theme of praise." The violin was the next instru. Ment mastered by Handel. He turned, then, to composition and wrote several operas in the style used by the Italians of his day. After his first opera was produced in London, in 1711, Handel was so toyally welcomed that he felt himself being adopted by the music-loving people of "green and rainy" England. It was not long before the German-born Handel became court musician to the King of England. George the First had a beautiful boat equipped with throne chairs. The boat sailed up and down the river Thames carrying the King of England and Handel, the King of Music. "Water Music" was the name given to the compositions that Handel played for the King as their boat plied the famous river. ANDEL, however, was seeking a medium greater than solitary compositions, greater, even, than operas. There was in his nature a deep spiritual yearning that finalPage 229 230 A Perry Picture GEORGE FREDERICK HANDEL ly found expression in writing oratorios. An oratorio resembles an opera in its telling of a dramatic story to the accompaniment of music. The oratorio, however, is usually based upon a sacred theme and the message of inspiration is delivered without a scenic background, without acting, and without costumes. The chorus, the orchestra, and the solo singers perform in magnificent unity. Sometimes, in a vast audience, you may see some of the listeners close their eyes in order that the message may come to them entirely through the medium of music. Handel's oratorio, using a Biblical text, possessed a lofty grandeur new to the world of music. His Israel in Egypt, Saul, and others, won the plaudits of the English nation. But it was the Messiah that held the people speechless with its strength and beauty. Here, the story of the life of Jesus is told in the matchless poetRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL 1946 ty of the Bible, and the music carnies the words sublimely as clouds are carried across the blue heavens. It is said that when the oratorio was completed, George Frederick Handel stood in his room, a sheaf of papers in his hands. Tears streamed down his face. The door slowly opened and a servant entered. Handel turned and cried out, "I thought I did see all heaven before me and the great God himself." The gifted composer was then fifty-six years old and this was the climax of his career, the high point of achievement. Although he could not then foresee the future, he realized, to some extent at least, that he had written immortal music. The narrative of the Messiah begins with the ancient prophecy, "Comfort ye, comfort ye my people. Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem... The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness." (Isaiah 40:1-3). These words are sung by tenor. The chorus takes up the refrain, "And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed. The first part of the oratorio tells the story of the birth of Jesus, using the words of St. Luke to describe the shepherds "abiding in the field." With a joyous refrain, the chorus repeats the glowing words, "Unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given... And the government shall be upon his shoulder...." But the joyous phrases of the holy birth fade away as the story of Christ's life upon earth is unfolded. With shadowed intonations, the alto soloist sings the heart-breaking aria, "He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief...." And the AN ARIA FOR EASTER tenor takes up the dark measures, "Behold and see if there be _ SOTrow like unto his sorrow. THEN, from the shadows that precede the dawn, there comes the message of the resurrection, the thythm of new life, the measure of springtime, the eternal resurgence of the spirit. In words more clear than the tones of a bell, more lucid than falling water, the soprano sings, "I. Know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth......" This is the beloved Easter aria, words of hope and comfort, words that have sustained the followers of Christ for centuries. These are the Biblical words that were treasured long before Handel set them to mu- 231 sic. Yet, with Handel's spacious talent, these words have acquired an added luster, a brighter illumination. The exquisite words are sung against a background of violin music more elusive and beautiful than the gray dawn shadows that dissolve into the opal morning. One feels the ineffable unity of this earth, its past, its present, and the ages tocome. One feels that this earth is but a part of the vastness of creation. The treasured words of the Easter aria fall in silver cadence, each note a jewel. "But now is Christ risen from the dead, the first fruits of them that slept." It is a majestic thing to remember that when Handel was an old man and the tide of his health was ebbing low, he played the organ at one of the numerous renditions of HANDEL AND GEORGE I OF ENGLAND From a Painting by Hamman 232 the Messiah in England. He had been blind for many years, but he could not give up his music. Especially he could not live without touching the organ keys to make them speak the message of faith and hope. On this occasion, the skilled hands of the master musician stopped in the middle of a phrase. He trembled and almost fell from the seat. Ina few moments he recovered his powRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL 1946 ers and finished playing the accompaniment with his accustomed grandeur. But that was the last time his fingers touched an organ. On Saturday, April 14, 1759, early in the morning, the man who composed the Messiah was himself wrapped in sleep. He lies with EngJand's honored ones in the vast crypts of Westminster Abbey. His spirit lives forever in his unrivalled music. WHEN THE CHOIR BROADCASTS Ruth H. Chadwick The Temple of God stands within my walls, Lifting its spires to heaven above, While Angel Moroni's clarion calls Proclaim the gospel of love. It comes on the wings of music and song, As the organ's rhythmic harmonies Sustain the cadenced tones and prolong The celestial melodies. It rises in splendor as each vibrant chord Mingles with praise from the choir unseen, To swell in hosannas to our Lord? And my reverent heart is serene! Faith Is a Heritage Christie Lund Coles CHAPTER I on the wooden washboard and brushed a wayward curl from her forehead. Then she stepped noiselessly to the door leading to the front room which was both livingroom and bedroom. She smiled gently at the sight of her small daughter sleeping soundly, one arm thrown above a tousled, dark head. "You Angel," she whispered, kissing the pink cheek. Rising, she placed her hands on her hips to say, "T'm thinking you get to look more like your father every minute." As she went out into the April sunshine, with the blue skies overhead and the spring sunlight falling upon the expectant earth, she laughed with the sheer joy of living. A song found her lips as she took each piece of clothing, shook it, then pinned it upon the clothesline. A neighbor, hanging clothes across a high board fence, called, "One thing, it'll soon dry in this sunshine." Enid called back, "Yes, isn't it wonderful?" The other woman looked at her rather sharply, "I can't say it's so wonderful. Mud to be tracked in and out of the house... This sudden thaw. Wait till your baby can run in and out by herself. And wait till you get a couple more to wash and iron for." Then, as a last gloomy thought, she added, as she turned to enter the house, '""There's death in this weather, too, if you ask me." |e ID piled her starched clothes But Enid did not let her neighbor's pessimism spoil her day. She was twenty-three, she had a husband whom she loved and who loved her. She was strong and well and had the most beautiful baby in the world... She thought of these things as she cleaned up the large, old-fashioned kitchen before starting to set the table. Yet, catching herself pausing in her work, she thought, "I have no time to be dreaming?even though it is wise to be counting my blessings. I must dress Sharon and feed her so she will be sweet for her adoring Daddy." There was none too much time. She was just wiping the last crumb from the small girl's mouth when she heard Tom's footsteps on the porch.. She would know the swift, strong sound of them any place. She hurriedly took Sharon up and rushed forward to meet him as he came in... Large and brown and smiling. Her husband, her Tom, her world... "Enid, Doll," he called her, taking her chin in his hand to tilt her face upward for his kiss. 'Then, to the baby, "If it isn't my big girl. Come here, you blue-eyed rascal." "Wonder where she gets those beautiful blue eyes?" Enid asked archly, looking at him from under dark, heavy lashes. "Now I wouldn't have the slightest idea," he returned laughingly, Page 233 shoulder where she was carried into and mo a sunny bay ndow the two-r00?m 4 rtmen which they You are going to have the best 0 were rentin! Use it was the OP y eve thing," thing availa "Don't you that might be ?. I As Enid served the meal which she 4 little bit selfish?" she teased, adhad put into the oven before hang: ding soberly, "L think what you said ing het clothes, Tom said, "1 like first 18 right. Dreams and faith are washday. } know well have sc the things ? live by. Espect# y loped potatoes-" faith." "And today, fruit cobbler," she He got up from the table, looked told him. Down at het fondly, "Be sute to keep "No kidding? Whatever didido your faith in me Sweetheart. To deserve th go" H ook his head the future in wonde nt at his good fortune, re then his eyes be grave and his yoice serious as he looked at her, say WEEN the clo had been ing, "someday, nid, and soon, we gathered in the dishes done be building our own home. WwW d put away, t on a clean won't live here very long ov yoile dress, prushed het hair, an have everything yo be the with the baby rt, starte finest lady 19 Pleasant Vl Ymin toward t do het shopping line to becom foreman 4 the fac: The peop! She on the stree tory ineteen twen new = friendly Though she was 4 foreman T wont dt men like howevet, w het because her hus Hutchins There'll b fewer! Band had lived het when he was a accidents, to better wor ' poy. His parents had been among "Ym not worried about yout makthe leaders f the church and ing good, 1 kno you'll suc: commun! She tho ght, as $ e ceed. But, as far as mi concerned, walked along, that it was strange I have everything 1 want right now. That poth of them should be orphans, If 1 thought being the finest lady 19 without any Neat relatives. Het pat: mighty good ighty good, inwas dead now, too, and both of deed." After a moment he took up Tom's parents died during the thread of their conversation, flu epidemt was thirteen 'Yes, Em have many ?00 Her heart earned tenderly over him things. M ybe the pest part of life as she though f him lef alone is when you are young, and full of with aging grandparents. She dreams, full of faith in the future. Thought of his hewilderment and Even so, I'l be glad to get you out his hurt. It seemed even greater FAITH IS A HERITAGE than her own because she had been had to work to get through school. She would see that as soon as there Was enough money put away, he would return ini | neering course, a trained electrical engineer, They had back after a few years... But Sharon changed that. Have it any different, not for worlds. The grocer was most kind when time," speaking about her as she left the id, "That's. Tom Drage's wife. Isn't she pretty?" The other answered, "Yes. We'll eee ee NID was tolling Tom's socks to put in his drawer when she heard a knock on the door. Rising to open it, she saw the tall gaunt woman from whom they rented standing in the doorway. She hoped they had done nothing to displease her. She was not married, and certainly not being too occupied in her own full life. "Miss Nobbit," she gteeted her, 'Do come in," 235 The other woman looking at her oddly for a long second. Enid felt the blood move to her face as she wondered again what could account for the unprecedently, kindly, "My dear, you must be brave...." Then, her words falling swiftly over one another, "They just phoned me from the sugar factory. Something happened to your husband. Yoy musn't look 'like that, child, Here, let me get you a drink," way under her. She found herself on the bed, dazed and trembling, her breath coming fast, "He... He - +. Wasn't...?" She couldn't say the word, but Miss Nobbitt said, honestly, "T don't know. They told me they were bringing him home." Suddenly, Enid got to her feet, tan to the window. She could see several men cartying an improvised stretcher upon which lay a still, oh, an alarmingly stil] figure. Tom's figure, She heard Miss Nobbit say, "I've Phoned for the Doctor. He should be here any minute." She heard herself saying, "Thank you..." as her feet started toward the door, toward the street.... But, instead of going out, she suddenly turned and ran into the kitchen. Once there, she fel] to her knees, buried her face in her hands, crying, "Oh, God, please give me strength. Give me strength. Please Jet him be all right," adding, almost gtudgingly, "If it be thy will.. Please..." 236 When she returned to the room her face was paper-white but she carried her head bravely and her voice was almost calm as she said to the men, "Put him there, please. And do be careful." When they had laid his unconscious body on the bed, one of them awkwardly tried to explain that he had been trying to save time and, instead of stopping the machinery to adjust a belt, had tried to push it on with his foot. He had been caught in the horrible wheels. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL 1946 She shuddered as she thought of it. Somehow, she remembered his words that if he were foreman he wouldn't drive the men... She knelt beside him, stroked back his hair from the quiet forehead. She whispered, "Tom, Tom, darling. It's Enid...." But he did not hear her, and somehow, as she heard the doctor at the door, she knew with a dreadful certainty that he was dead. (To be continued) _- ~ AFTERMATH Anna Prince Redd Chimney weeds and broken path? The fire's sterile aftermath. Defiantly the chimney stands alone Divorced from every board and stone That once was home. Rubbish clutters up the lot, String and papers from the town are caught Upon the ragged shrubs. A yellow rose bush tries to bloom Without the care that once it knew; The grass that was the lawn Has gone to seed along the path And weeds usurp the bed Where flowers grew. My chimney shaft of mortared rock Has weathered storms, Withstood the shock Of winds that laid huge trees along the ground, Yet not a crack nor seam is found Breaking its strength. Standing there, its tall straight length Awaits the work of builder hands; I'm going back to where it stands, For there, is home. P 3A cf Se ae A Perry Picture "CHRIST AND THE HOLY WOMEN" From a Painting by Golz The Infallible Spirit Etta Mai Scott "Help us, O Lord our God; for we rest on thee" (II Chronicles 14:11). WHEN this statement was made, Asa saw himself confronted by a vast army, steeds, and chariots, with no sign of any reinforcements to come to his relief. Holding his own in the face of all of this, was a feat he felt that he could not attain. Therefore, he turned to the Lord and made entreaty. Asa's problem was only the case of the normal human being confronted with tragedy. We rush out to battle with our fears, and just as long as we have them under control, or as long as we are sure we have reinforcements to back us up, we move along at a gallant pace. But just let the walls of sorrow, grief, or despair confront us, let the wall of friendship, with which we thought ourselves surrounded, crumble, and our fortunes disappear, and we find ourselves lost and dazed. Then it is that we, like Asa, turn our eyes toward God?that great infallible Father to whom a flood of prayers is constantly ascending, that great Power whose word can stay the waves, move mountains, and calm the troubled souls of men. If only we would keep our eyes fixed upon him all the time instead of calling in our hour of distress: "Help us, O Lord our God; for we rest on thee." Page 237 My father wanted me to Marty been Made back East. They had Eph Wilson, and Brother Matt Wij. Shiny Pointed toes and high heels son, Eph's father, was a8 eager as and hig tops. Se. When father askeg ie, Wily ting basques and lined them and had don't you like Eph, Elvira?" all J very full skirts, ] knew I'd be hap. ? has big feet om i kag uew calico, much ag I'd love u |: But there Was one reason Why ] enjoyed being Squired around b Ph, and that was Melissa Bates. 1?r eyes t that's another stor ance? Suddenly i shouted "No!" he best dance of ? year wa Father went White and got u held on a dwinter's n ght, and the and strode Outside. When he came man you went S SUPPOsed to back in, he said, "I've been figurin THERE IS TRUTH [ looked up at him so relieved and happy that I must have shone. He fumbled for words before he added, "That is, if you'll consent to go with Eph." I laughed and hugged him and promised. How I did regret that promise! It was the very next day that I met Henry. I had two buckets of water I had just drawn from the well. I looked up from the windlass, and there stood a young man by the corner of the mill. He was bareheaded, his hair thick and yellow as wild currants, fit to dazzle my ey?s. I stood with my mouth open staring like a little girl at her first boughten doll. Then | caught myself and turned away, my face burning clear back to my ears. But Henry called out, minute." So I stopped, and he came up to me and said, "You must be Elvira Lowham. My brother says you are working for his wife. I'm Henry Comer, Jim's brother, and I've come to live with them. Here, let me take that water." "Wait a HE lifted both buckets. "They're too heavy for you," he said. "Jiminy cricket! You're no bigger than a linnet. Honest, are you sev" enteen? Jim says you ame." I owned up to being seventeen and he carried the water into the house. But we didn't see much of each other after that, for all we worked so close together. We were too busy. But we did get snatches of talk now and then, evenings after the dough was set. Sometimes we stood out by the well, looking at the stars and the snow and the cold hills. I told him about the big dance 239 and found out that he was Crazy about dancing, too, and that he would be there. He wanted me to go with him, but there was my promise to father, and what could I do? Nobody was ever sortier about a bargain than 1 was ovet that one. But how else could I get the hoops for my dress? I didn't lie awake nights, though, much as I was scheming and figuring. When you're up at five-thirty of a morning and are kept busy washing dishes, scrubbing floors, and bending over washtubs you're glad to hit the pillow at night, and you go to bed to sleep. My! My! But I hardly got a chance to see how pretty the sun was, shining on the snow, unless I was out after water or hanging out clothes. The Comers had a little boy, David, who was a joy to be around. The first day I came he treated me like a guest, taking me to see a tree that he said was a "tree-apple" because it had apples on before the snow came. He showed me the mill and the well. He was a happy little coot, in spite of his solemn talk and his grown-up ways. Henry adored him. He told me once that heaven could offer a man no greater blessing than a son like David. So the days went by and I was contented seeing Henry at meals, and sometimes in the evenings. I decided that it was better to go to the dance with Eph and get a few turns with Henry than to miss both, and I kept busier than corn in a poppet. First thing I knew, Mrs. Comer's niece came to help her and I was free to go home, and there were only three days left before the dance. Wilson's store had a piece of red calico with small figures of blue, 240 black, and white. I bought that because red was my color, what with my dark curls and brown eyes. I got some big black buttons, too. The colors in our calico were much harder than in the prints we buy now, but I thought that was pretty. It was, too, lots prettier than homespun. Mother was a good hand with the needle and she helped me cut out and fit the dress. But stitching at night by the unsteady flame of a small coal-oil lamp made doing a good job difficult, especially with so little time, and I was hard pressed to get my dress done. Fact is, I didn't get the buttonholes worked. I just cut them and hoped that, what with the lining, they'd hold, and what with the big buttons, they wouldn't show. But the worst of it was that the afternoon of the dance it started to snow, and by evening it had whipped up into a right smart storm. The dance hall was a good two miles from our home, and father began to worty. He kept window-watching the weather, and finally, he said, "Elvira, my girl, it looks as if there'd be no dancing for you tonight." I looked up from the dishes I was washing and turned toward him, "Why not?" He said, "Look at the weather." "Who cares about the weather?" I asked, and slashed at a plate that was already clean. "T do," said father, "you can't go out in that blizzard. You'd freeze." I began to cry and said, ""Why did I work that hard all those weeks? And what is there to live for?" and a lot of other things. Then I went out the back door to throw out the dishwater. The wind nearly tore the pan from my hands. I returned and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL 1946 pushed the door shut by backing up hard against it, and wiped the dishpan and hung it up. ATHER said, "You're not going out in that storm tonight." His gray eyes were getting narrower and narrower and he'd begun to twist his heavy black forelock. I began to be afraid that I really would have to stay at home. So I began to pet and coax. Finally, he picked up a chair and set it down hard and said, "'All right. If you can stand out in that weather for five minutes, I'll let you go to the dance." Whew, it was cold! And the wind! I could barely pull the door to behind me, but I did, and I went out and stayed out. I couldn't tell how long five minutes was and I didn't dare to go back in for fear it would be too soon and I'd lose out. Father gave in first. He came out after me. So I got ready for the dance. I slipped on my new red calico and stood on a chair to see, by the mirror in mother's dresser, how the hoops hung. I climbed down and did a turn or two to view the tips of my new shoes before I calmed down and began to pin up my side curls and to coax my bangs to lie flat. I rubbed a little of the over-bright color of my cheeks down with a stolen pinch of mother's precious potato starch. After awhile Eph came and mother gave us some bricks she had warmed and wrapped for my feet, and I put on my heavy coat. We had quilts and robes, and the going wasn't so bad. Anyway, when I was off to a dance, I was too excited to feel cold. THERE lS TRUTH But on the road I kept scheming for a way to get a little extra time with Henry. I thought and thought so much that I didn't notice when we drew up in front of the dance hall, till the team stopped and Eph made ready to hop down and help me out. I felt his big hand on my shoulder and reacted without thinking. I gave a little kick at just the wrong time at just the wrong angle. He caught his foot in my hoops and down he went sprawling onto the snow where the horses had trampled it hard. I scrambled down to help him, and there, in a strip of light from the doorway, stood Melissa. The sight of her gave me an idea. Melissa lived only a short way from the hall; she was crazy over Eph. What a set-up! I knelt down and began to make over Eph. I knew he wasn't injured, but Melissa didn't, and she'd give anything to walk into that party with Eph, or, at least, to keep me from doing it. Melissa was beside us instantly and was helping Eph to his feet. She put her hand on his head, feeling for the bump. I stole a peek at the folks gathered around, and there was Henry, so I couldn't say another word. Besides, Eph was in tender hands, and capable ones, too. More capable than I knew. Melissa said, "Elvira, you can't do anything more to help. Why not go inside out of the cold? I'll take Eph over home. It's so near. I'll get him fixed up a little." She looked at Henry. "Do you know each other? I suppose not. Mr. Comer, may T present Miss Lowham? Perhaps, you wouldn't mind escorting her inside. That's a dear." And that set- 24) tled it for Melissa and Eph, and, I thought, for me and Henry, too. But I didn't know Henry. He crooked his arm and I took it and we hurried into the hall where the fiddlers were striking up a polka. I was thrilled! I do believe that if the lamps had been suddenly blown out, no one would have missed their light for the shine of me. And then I caught Henry's eyes. They were as cold and forbidding as winter seas. He danced the first number with me, as it was his duty to do, but after that he kept as far away as the hall allowed. I tried not to show how it hurt, and I danced madly, a polka, a schottische or two, and a quadrille. We were tripping a varsovienne when Eph came in with Melissa. He had a headache, mostly plain temper, and he was dour as a camel. He danced a little, but not with me. Mostly he sat on a bench and sulked. I saw Melissa arguing with Henry. After a time she came to me and said, "Eph isn't feeling well and wants to go home, but he doesn't want to disturb your pleasure. Mr. Comer will take care of you," and she was gone before I could say a thing. SOME fellow swung me off in a Virginia reel and it was then that the accident happened. He caught his finger in one of my unfinished buttonholes and made a rip in my basque. I grabbed it and held it together while I ran for my coat. When Henry asked if I wanted to go home, [T had no choice but to go with him, bad as he had treated me. All the way home all he'd sav was. "Yes." "Wiel" "No." When he got out to lift me down 242 from the sleigh I asked him pointblank what had come over him. He said, "Miss Lowham, there is truth and there isa lie. One is good and the other is bad, and a man lives by his choice of the two. It's like a fork in the road. You can take the one on the right or the one on the left, but there is no middle way." He climbed into the sleigh and drove off without a glance at me, and I stood there in the path, realizing now why Melissa had been bossing Henry around all night. They had come together and he had been standing in the shadow when Melissa stood in the light. He had seen and heard the whole show I had put on over Eph and had seen through it. I just stood and wondered how much shame and misery a_ heart could hold and still beat, and then I turned and went into the house. One thing I gained, I was rid of Eph. Melissa took care of him for me for life. They were married the very next month with a big reception and everything. Henry was at the party, but he might as well have been in Klondike, so great was the coldness and distance in him. I tried to act merry, but I made a sorry mess of it. Father thought that it was losing Eph that kept me low, because he knew nothing about me and Henty. Ill say this for him, though, he didn't give me one word of censure. Spring came, and the spring dances, and I went with a different fellow every time, but even the dancing had lost its fun. Then the news came about the Comers. David had scarlet fever. Mrs. Comer's niece had got scared and gone home and left Mrs. Comer sick herself and with no help. I told Mother that I was going back, and I went. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL 1946 When I walked into the Comer house everything was at sixes and sevens, dishes piled on the table, floors dirty, beds tumbled, and Mrs. Comer, who was so ill she should have been in bed herself, was fussing over David. "Why, Elvira," she said and lit up with relief. Then her face clouded and she said, "But it's catching, you know, unless you've had it. Have you?" I hurried into the kitchen before she could go into details. For two weeks I was too busy to know that I was alive. The men weren't staying at home, so there weren't the heavy meals and housework to do, but David was very sick, and Mrs. Comer was too weak to help much. The little shaver grew worse and we were afraid that he couldn't pull through. I prayed and prayed, silently, as I worked. My heart ached, and when there wasn't something pressing to be done I went into the kitchen and washed. I washed until there was nothing left with a speck of soil on it, and the time went by. The doctor came every day and I tried to do everything that he ordered as well as a nurse would have done, if we could have found a nurse, and finally David began to improve. The fever went away and he lay, a small white ghost of himself, and my throat ached when I looked into his great dark eyes. "Vira," he'd say, "tell me a tory." And I told him all the wee-wee stories I knew and made up others. When I'd say, "I don't know any more, David," he'd say, "Shing to me then." And I'd sing even when the deep notes came out more like sobs. And when his appetite was so ? | we Cried as | had never dare fore. ? next 4 sore throat and jt got more a Come to apologiz rg Te Taw, and | beOat or the know]. UP from his hat, but his glance fel] agai Vv Henry would know at I had taken the rame very jl]. Don't know, wh Jagoe 244 He THE MERRILL LOCUST TREE Rebecca Merrill Ostler My thoughts go back to the little house Of long remembered days, In dear simplicity it stood With unpretentious ways; And yet it was a restful place, Beneath the locust's shade, The spreading branches guarded well The home my parents made. I long for that old locust tree And for the birds to sing? My father often rested there In early days of spring. He brought the seed from old Nauvoo In the pioneer wagon train And planted it deep in the desert soil When he found a home again; The tall old tree brings memories More dear than I can tell? Long may the locust lend its shade To the home we loved so well. Our Number One Enemy?Cancer Compiled by the Field Army, Utah Division of the American Cancer Society HAT is cancer? Cancer is not a disease. It is the wild growth of lawless "gangster" cells that infiltrate the surrounding area and, if not treated or removed in time, "metastasize" (that is, break off and travel in the bloodstream or in the lymphatic fluids to other positions, where they set up in business again). The result is death to the individual by interference with vital organs, either at the site of the original growth or at a new site after metastasis. We dread cancer above all other diseases. Therefore, it stands rightly among the causes of suffering and death as mankind's Number One Enemy. Every year scientific advances make it possible to save more people from cancer. Every year we grow older, however, cancer increases as a personal danger. The race between these two factors is the vital thing which concers us. Weare concerned with it in every age of life. Even among _ babies, children, and youths, cancer takes an appalling toll. This year it will kill nearly 2,000 American boys and girls who will never live to see their twenty-first birthday. Statistics indicate that between the ages of five and nineteen years, cancer kills more children than all of the following diseases combined: scarlet fever, infantile paralysis, typhoid fever, meningitis, peritonitis, diphtheria, dysentery, diarrhea, and malaria. One in every six deaths among people of middle age is caused by cancer. Even among the aged, cancer is not as high a cause of death proportionately. Thus, a vast number of cancer's victims are stricken when still at the height of their powers?fathers and mothers with dependent children, men and women whom society and business can least spare. The Facts We Must Face The proportions of the cancer tragedy are shocking. Cancer killed 607,000 Americans between Pearl Harbor and V-J Day ?more than twice as many as were slain by the Germans and Japs. Right now, cancer is killing 175,- ooo Americans a yeat?478 every day?twenty every hour?one every three minutes. Cancer is the greatest killer of American women between the ages of thirty-five and fifty-four?the second greatest killer of American men. In Amenica today, it is estimated conservatively that more than 700,- ooo persons are suffering from cancer, and the total may approach 1,000,000. Yet, we can face with real hope facts even as terrible as these. When detected in time and treated effectively, cancer can be cured in a large proportion of cases. In ninety-five per cent of the cases, cancer of the skin or lip can be cured in its early stages?cancer of the breast or uterus in seventy-five per cent of the cases, if treated in time. It is estimated Page 245 246 that, on the basis of present knowledge alone, from thirty per cent to fifty per cent of all cancer can be cured through early recognition and effective treatment. For our nation as a whole, the cancer death rate is still alarmingly on the increase. But in those communities or among certain groups or citizens, where people have learned to recognize the danger signals of cancer and have proper facilities for treatment to which they turn quickly, cancer death rates are beginning to go down. For instance, one of our large insurance companies recently reported, for the first time, a definite downward trend in the cancer death rate among its white industrial policy holders over an entire decade. We ought to be turning the tide, however, not just for a part of our people, but for all of our people. This year, due largely to the efforts in which the American Cancer Society has played a leading part, the lives of 30,000 Americans will be saved from this terrible disease. But at least another 50,000 will die needlessly. They will die mainly because they lacked the knowledge to seek help early enough, or did not get the treatment they needed. We also have failed so far to do as much as we should to relieve the terrible suffering of those who cannot be saved and to increase constantly the proportion of those with good hope of salvation, through an adequate program of research. What We Must Do. We must press a comprehensive and relentless attack against cancer, upon all fronts?through education, adequate treatment, and_ research. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL 1946 To do this, we need, first of all, an effective means for organizing and directing the fight against cancer. The basis for such an organization was laid in 1913 with the founding of the American Cancer Society. Although handicapped by insufficient funds, it pioneered the educational program which proved that an ever-increasing number of lives can be saved. The American Cancer Society now has enlisted the highest leadership, both medical and lay, that can be had. Last year it established a beachhead for a really comprehensive attack on cancer. With the aid of the National Research Council, it began the organization of a far-reaching program of cancer reseatch. This year, it plans not only greatly to increase its research, but to increase facilities for the treatment of cancer patients. It is essential that people learn to consult a doctor at the first sign of possible cancer and that new and better ways to fight cancer be found through research. People must have places to turn for effective treatment. No matter what programs the government may propose for the study of cancer, there remains the need for private institutions to carry on cancer and other related basic research. In order to make a real start toward providing better care for cancer patients, the goal of the American Cancer Society this year is to raise $12,000,000. Utah's goal is $35,700.00. This will provide funds for more and better diagnosis in cancer clinics, including x-ray film and radium, to help establish can- OUR NUMBER ONE ENEMY?CANCER cer detection centers at key points within the State, to help establish Visiting-nurse service for care of can. Cer patients, Pose of developing a gteat nationwide, co-ordinated Tesearch attack on cancer, comparable to the comPrehensive scientific Tesearch attacks Which our nation made upon its wartime problems. Composed of the Nation's leading vises the government, but is not un. Der government control. ? Council has appointed a from thirty per cent to fifty per cent, based on Present knowledge of cancer, No thinking person will deny that the threat of cancer IS very real to each and every one of us. ? time has come in the fight against cancer to strike and to strike hard. ?Discourses of Brigham Young, Page 565 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, April 1, and April 15, 1886 For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NATIONS TOOELE: The quarterly conference of the Relief Society was held in the Tooele meeting house, March 13 and 14, 1886, with M. A. Hunter presiding. After the usual opening exercises, President Hunter made a few opening remarks, during which Sisters Presendia Kimball and Helen Mar Whitney arrived from Salt Lake City. Sister Kimball was the first speaker. She gave a great deal of good counsel and advice, suitable to all the saints, both old and young. Sister Whitney spoke very interestingly, with remarks to suit all, and encouraged all to live up to their privileges, for we live in very critical times. ****Sisters Kimball and Whitney stopped all the week and visited and cheered the sisters for they were full of blessings, and on Saturday returned home to the city. ?Ann Tate, Cor. Sec. For Tooele Stake. X ue & PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT: There is almost no limit to the physical development and health that may be gained and maintained by walking that is done for the purpose of exercise. Any one can find time and space in which to walk, and one can find congenial company for such trips. A prospective husband is not the best company at such times, for with him the walk will almost inevitably degenerate into a saunter; further, no woman can walk freely when custom or affection compels her to lean upon a masculine arm. To be beneficial, walking must be done in shoes broad enough to let the feet be placed firmly upon the ground at every step, and in clothing which will allow free play to the lungs and arms. The step should be as quick as can be maintained without causing uncomfortable increase in the action of the heart. The pedestrian should breathe through the nose, carry the head erect, and not be afraid of being high shouldered. ?Selected see NOTES AND NEWS: The criterion of true beauty is that it increases on examination; if false, that it lessens. There is something, therefore, in true beauty that corresponds with right reason, and is not merely the creation of fancy. ?Lord Greenville eek x MISCELLANEOUS: Silence does not always mark wisdom. The hardest useful labor is less exhausting, in the long run, than exciting pleasures, as most of their devotees in middle life sadly confess. Truth is as impossible to be soiled by any outward touch as the sunbeam. Eee 6 Then raise up your voices, fair daughters of Zion, Stand forth in the pride of your honor and worth; There's a power above us, whose hand we rely on, More potent than princes and kings of the earth. ?M. J. Tanner Page 248 Woman's Sphere = Ramona W. Cannon ITH famine, disease, and injustice still stalking the world, we are confronted at every turn with sharp reminders of that second great commandment of Jesus?to love. One's neighbor as oneself. The people of America have done a valiant work in relieving suffering; but must we not come yet closer to the literal following of the Savior's pattem for living? RS. ELEANOR ROOSEVELT, our country's one woman delegate to the United Nations Organization conference in London, said, after traveling in Germany, that if people wanted to know the reason for the UNO, they should have a look at conditions in Germany. ORA WALN, Atlantic Monthly correspondent in the American zone in Germany, writes that out of 2866 births in August, 1148 deaths occurred, the principal cause being lack of food for mothers or babies. ANY young people in France have only half the daily amount of calories considered essential to health. A reputable French doctor believes that ninety-five per cent of the young people of Paris have tuberculosis. The French infant mortality rate is thirty-three per cent. The Chinese, East Indians, Malayans, and Filipinos have suffered excessively and still hunger. In India, in 1943, three million died of starvation. The present famine there is expected to be even worse. U4, since becoming a state in 1896, has had eight govemorts, including the present executive. The wives of four ex-Governors are still living. A fifth, Mrs. Charles R. Mabey, is only recently deceased. The surviving ladies, all widows, are: the State's first first-lady, Mrs. Heber M. Wells (1896-1904); Mrs. William Spry (1909-1917); Mrs. George H. Dern (1925-1933); Mrs. Henry Blood (1933-1941). S a small Indian girl, Rose Daniels, now ninety-one years old, was captured from her Navajo tribe by the Utes. As was done in many cases, the Mormons purchased her freedom. Living among her rescuers, she learned their ways. Later, married to a Ute and living on the barren reservation, she planted as the Mormons did, devising an irrigation system from the ditches, and improving her strains by working with the best seed. She has developed the only Lima bean that can be grown in the short, dry seasons of Utah, Wyoming, and South Dakota. Page 249 VOL. 33 EDITORIAL c?~2 APRIL 1946 Patient in Spirit" PATIENCE is a virtue which is enjoined many times in Holy Writ upon those who would be, in reality, the children of God. It is classed with such other qualities as faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, and diligence. Patience, as an attribute of character, is extolled in the Epistle of James: Be patient therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long patience for it, until he receive the early and latter rain. Be ye also patient; stablish your hearts: for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh.... Take, my brethren, the prophets, who have spoken in the name of the Lord, for an example of suffering affliction, and of patience. Behold, we count them happy which endure. Ye have heard of the patience of Job, and have seen the end of the Lord; that the Lord is very pitiful, and of tender mercy (James 5:7, 8, 10, 11). The "patience of Job" has come to be a common saying among men, and anyone can learn a lesson in patience from studying the life of this "perfect and upright" man. It is usually the case that one who _ habitually exercises patience has acquired this virtue from years of constant striving for its possession. Few individuals seem to be so fortunate as to be endowed with patience from Page 250 birth. It is a priceless acquisition for the wife and mother. Children rately realize the major role which patience plays in their home life as the mother guides the daily affairs of the home. But when a daughter assumes the responsibilities of wifehood, she soon awakens to the necessity of being patient in order that her new home may be permeated with a spirit of love and understanding. With the addition of the duties and cares of motherhood, a still greater need for patience is felt. If it is difficult to be patient in one's own affairs, it is still more difficult to be patient in directing the conduct of others. Too many mothers impulsively slap or berate a child without stopping to use a more effective means of correction for the lasting benefit of the child. It also requires patience to cheerfully perform, hour after hour, day after day, month after month, the same household tasks over and over again. A spint of patience is needed in order that joy may come from such inevitable tasks and not discontent or grumblings at the monotony and drudgery of a woman's housework. Only one who has learned by patience to curb hasty actions and goverm an unruly tongue, allowing matters to proceed in a natural manner, realizes the constant surveillance he EDITORIAL must impose on himself. The tendency on the part of most people to seek to force an issue without letting the individual, properly guided, work out his own problems and thus gain invaluable experience for himself, is directly traceable to a lack of patience. Blessed is the home where patience abides as a cultivated and nur- 251 tured member of the family. Blessed is any group which is presided over by one who is "patient in spirit." From an intimate association with patience one grows ever stronger in living according to the admonition of the Lord: "In your patience possess ye your souls" (Luke 21:19). MCS. Se Congratulations to President Smith ON HIS BIRTHDAY, APRIL 4th HE Relief Society General Presidency, on behalf of its world-wide membership, wishes to congratulate President George Albert Smith on the seventy-sixth anniversary of his birth. May this important milestone in his long career of outstanding service be a day of joy to him and a source of great satisfaction. We particularly remember that this is President Smith's first birthday as the President of the Church, and we wish him many more joyful anniversaries. May his health and strength be preserved, and may the prayers of the Relief Society sisters in his behalf, and their daily conduct be such as to help sustain him in his many responsibilities. May our love and appreciation go with him in his travels and abide with him in his home. May we teach our children the principles of high resolve, courage and devotion that President Smith has exemplified as a leader of his people. O Se Wotes. TO THE FIELD Relicf Society No Longer to Share in the Use of the Evenings of the Stake Quarterly Conference Sundays The following letter from the First Presidency is published for the information of stake and ward Relief Society presidents: February 21, 1946 "TO: PRESIDENCIES OF STAKES GENERAL SUPERINTENDENTS AND GENERAL PRESIDENTS OF AUXILIARY ORGANIZATIONS Dear Brethren and Sisters: In a letter dated April 25, 1942, addressed to presidencies of stakes, bishops, presidents of missions, and presidents of branches, it was recommended that 'during the emergency the several stake auxiliary organizations will share in the use of the evenings of the stake quarterly conference Sundays for their stake auxiliary conferences and other programs under the assignment, direction, and discretion of the stake presidency.' At the regular meeting of the First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve held January 31, 1946, it was decided, after due consideration of the matters of Sunday evening meetings held in connection with stake quarterly conferences, to advise that these meetings be given to the Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Associations instead of being alternated among the various auxiliaries. Therefore, commencing as of this date, presidencies of stakes, superintendents and presidents of auxiliary associations will please arrange their programs in accordance with this recommendation. Regarding the holding of special auxiliary meetings in wards, we repeat the instructions heretofore given as follows: 'In the wards the Relief Society, the Sunday School, the Mutual Improvement Associations, the Primary Association, and the Genealogical Society will hold all their special meetings and annual conferences on the evenings of Page 252 Fast Sundays. The assignment of these evenings to the various auxiliaries will be made by the bishopric of the ward after consultation with the auxiliary organizations.' Sincerely your brethren, (Signed) Geo. Albert Smith J. Reuben Clark, Jr. David O. McKay The First Presidency" VOICE OF CUMORAH Jo Adelaide Stock I am a hill of stone and clay, Of grass and tree; A sacred record, ancient, lay Hidden in me! The earth which long my treasure kept Is holy earth; Within my bosom close it slept Until its birth. To me a righteous prophet gave The work of years; To keep, to cherish and to save Through trial and tears! I've felt the blessed holy tread Of Angels' feet! I heard the words Moroni said, And oh, how sweet! Call me thrice blessed! Hark to mel Reward is mine! To every saint o'er land and sea I am a shrine! NOTES TO THE FIELD 253 StOW faster." ?Benjamin Franklin ?; hear, and Your soul shal] live; and ting covenant With you, ?ven th e sure METCcies of Let the Wicked forsake hi and let him S Way, and the unri Teturn unto the L Our God, fo Shteous man his thoughts t he wil] abundantly ardon than you; Ways, and my thoughts th ?Isaiah 55:2-9. In 1340 A. D., the Poet Chaucer Said: "Character and name depart Standing as lights in the dark ages. 5 Dr, n Rush resolutely under, took by ex e?Nnsive effo ts, long Petsevered in, mid the ardy ti | Profession, to withstand th; Steat and deya Press and by Personal influen | "For the dryn Ness shal] clothe 4 man with Page 254 Ord, and he OF as the heavens are higher than the When wine Comes in," "Other men had incy cated temperan ? both by Precept and ex, I hay, Mercy upo him; and to ? 6 ~ le, Magic Word m Mary Ek Knowles HEN at last she reached the foot of the tortuous path, the woman sank exhausted to the ground, A moment she lay there, her Jabored breathing coming from fevercracked lips, the pain and weariness of her body almost more than she could bear. Then she raised her head and looked back up the dark way from whence she had come, and bewilderment seized her. Ere was she? Why was she here? All about her was darkness?heavy, crushing She began to whimper as a child does when it awakens from a nightcame to her echoing and re-echoing down the dark chasm. "Come back! Come vack to me!" ?, woman recogrized her mother's voice; and, at the sound, all the jtughing carefree days of child- "Yes, yes, Mother!" to cry eagerly. "I am coming back." But she could not open her lips, could not move her tired body. Owsiness her?a drowsiness that numbed her senses and With difficul through a silvery mist, was a peaceful, green countryside with a cool stream winding lazily through a lush meadow. She had but to cross a small bridge and she would be in this coo] Paradise. Slowly she pulled her body over the hard ground toward the bridge, and one hand teached up and clung to the narrow railing. Again a dear voice called to her: "Come back! Come back to me!" It was the voice of her husband. The woman's head went up. Oh, she must go back! Somehow she must drag herself back up that steep Path. Her lips formed the word, "Coming!" Desperately she tried, but she could not tise, could not make her body do her will, And she was tired SO very, very tired. Suddenly, walked across the bridge she would become as strong and carefree as the child who had once raced through and rest?peace such as she had never known, She raised herself up and put one foot on the bridge, As she did S0, a child's voice came to her. "Mother! Mother!" it called. ? mother turned her head, and her body straightened. It was as "if the magic word, "Mother," had tapped a hidden spring of strength. Without hesitation, she turned her back on Paradise and started to climb the long, stony path to earth. Page 255 The White Picket Fence Sarah O. Moss ATRICIA hurriedly placed a half dozen card tables about her spacious living-room and spread dainty lunch cloths on each one with meticulous care. She took infinite pains with the one long table in the southeast corner and placed a centerpiece of roses in a glass bowl on the center of the lace cloth. Patricia) glanced with - satisfaction through the corner window at the majestic scene before her?high, rolling mountains spread with autumn color, and then she looked at her own tailored lawns flanked by cleankept flower beds. She frowned at the broken pickets in the white fence that divided her yard from the tiny structure on the prized corner lot adjoining. "Tom," she called in a distressed voice, "you've promised me ever since that load of topsoil was delivered, that you'd fix those pickets the truck ruined, and here it is, the one day of my life when I wanted everything to be perfect and my guests will have to stare at the jagged fence. A broken fence, plus that little matchbox of a house." Tom came in from the breakfast room carrying a napkin which he laid on the hall table, as he picked up his hat. "T'll fix it tonight sure," he said, coming forward, and then, remembering, he added, "Sorry, Pat. That won't do you any good?the patty''ll be over." "If you only hadn't been so slow, Tom," said Patricia busying herself with the table, "we could have Page 256 owned that lot and had it all to ourselves. Now look at it." She threw him a pouty look. Tom put his arm across her shoulder, detaining her as she rushed about the room. "Say, listen," he told her firmly, "you are going to grow old hating that little house next door.. Those people have to live, too. They're a decent sort and mind their own business. I think they'll make good neighbors." Patricia gave him a wry smile. "I suppose you're night. Still, neighbors are the least of my worries. I rather enjoy being alone. But that little tiny house and those pickets, Tom, that's all Doris Banks will see if she sits at this table." Tom went toward the door. "Well, put her in front of a wall. She's nobody." "Oh, but she is, Tom," said Patricia suddenly and with firm confidence. ''She's vice-president of the Betterment League. She is important. And think of it! Mrs. Mathew James, a national figure, when it comes to civic affairs, will be here. They say she's a marvelous talker, too. I'm so glad for my lovely home, and thanks to Isabell Cottam, my party food will be perfect." "And I suppose you wear the new suit today?" said Tom with a satisfied. Smile on his face. "A swelllooking president." "Uh hu, and I'll try to make time to stop in and see you," Patricia told her husband as he hurried away. There was so much to do. She THE WHITE PICKET FENCE picked up and polished silverware from the buffet and began placing it on the tables, but at the telePhone's urgent tinging, she left her task to answer it in the back hall. It was Isabell Cottam on the line. Patricia's face turned red and white at intervals as she listened to a long speech from the other end. "But what shall [ do, Isabell?" Patricia groaned. "Of course I'm sorty about your mother having a stroke, but goodness, I'm in a spot. I couldn't fix all that food and besides it worries me, J] get confused and my party'll be a flop." She hesitated again as she listened. "No, I don't know any of my neighbors well enough to ask them to come in and help. I've just never felt close enough to them." Again advice came from Isabell. "T wouldn't feel confident about that colored girl, Isabell. I'm sure she wouldn't know what to do if I left her as I'd planned." The conversation went on. Pa. Tricia became more discouraged the more she talked. Finally, she said. "Tl: manage somehow, Isabell, ] know you have your hands full, and I'm terribly sorry about your mother." At last. The conversation ended. ATRICIA sat frozen to the chair in the hall. How perfectly awful! She did the only thing she felt like doing. She cried brokenly, without restraint, and her sobs shook her small body. "Ts something wrong?" Patricia jumped, then, seeing the little figure from the small house, she rose to open the door, still crying. She told the neighbor as steadily as she could what had happened. "Perhaps T can help," said the 257 neighbor, who spoke with an accent. Patricia smiled. "You're ve kind," she said, with Tegret that she hadn't been more friendly through the month that the new people had lived next door. Without confidence, she led the way to the kitchen and surveyed the Prospect of creating a luncheon. "This is the menu I'd planned, but it's too elaborate. Now, let's see?I'll have to stay and help. You see, I was to go to the airport to meet Mrs, James, our guest of honor, and then there was to have been a sight-seeing trip. Luncheon is scheduled for one o'clock, so ['ll have to get something together that won't take too much time, or be too confusing.": She thought of all the lovely things that Isabell could make. She wished that the aged woman who was Isabell's mother had delayed having her stroke for a day. How silly! How selfish! Patricia managed to smile at her neighbor who stood waiting to start her work. "Tm sure everything will work out," said Mrs. Jarmen. But nothing was working out today. Patricia answered the telephone again, and before she had time to tell Doris about her own troubles, Doris told her that she wouldn't be able to 80 to the airport because her dressmaker who had altered her suit had to take out the hem. "It's just a half inch too long and you know what a half inch in a hem can do toa suit," she told Patricia. Patricia swayed. Doris, who was vice-president of the Betterment League, -couldn't go to the airport. That meant Patricia had to go. But the luncheon! What a morning! Patricia went back into the kitch- 258 en. "I'll have to dress right now," she told Mrs. Jarmen. "Order some Parker House rolls from the bakery." She thought of Isabell's beaten biscuits. "And order some ice cream _chocolate, from the Sherbet Shop. When I get back we'll make a salad of that chicken and some hot chocoJate. If you'll wash the lettuce and drain it, and prepare the chickens, ['ll run and dress." Patricia vanished. She dressed quickly, then hurried down to pack out the car. She remembered that she hadn't taken time to prop: erly thank Mrs. Jarmen for her proffer of help. She rushed back into the house.. "Mrs. Jarmen, you're like a Christmas gift. I don't understand how you happened along when you did. 1 do appreciate what you're doing." Patricia looked at the calm face before her. "Well, don't worry, Mrs. Wright. I'm glad that I didn't go out to work today." Her Mona Lisa smile disturbed Patricia. She felt that the woman was laughing at her. "Tl get back as soon as I can," she told Mrs. Jarmen, with small spirit. "And will you order the tolls at once, and the ice cream?" Mrs. Jarmen waved and nodded. PATRICIA arrived at the airport with five minutes to wait, but when the plane arrived Mrs. James was not on it. "She's probably on a special plane that's due in half an hour," the clerk at the window told her. "A delegation of some sort is coming through." He proved to be right. Mrs. James was among the passengers. She was very charming, and Patricia was glad RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL 1946 when she expressed a desire to go directly to her hotel to freshen up. That would give Patricia an hour extra, and by that time Doris ought to be free to take over. She could take Mrs. James around the town, and the luncheon might turn out right after all. But nobody had figured on the press. Judy Raymond knew about Patricia's party and wanted to make the most of it for her society page. She talked long and freely to Mrs. James and seemed to take ages to get the proper pictures. If she'd only hurry. At an opportune interval, Patricia slipped to a telephone booth and called her home. "Did you get the order in for the rolls?" was her first concer, as Mrs. Jarmen answered. "No, we were too late for special orders, and the ice cream delivery doesn't get up this way in time for lunch, but I can make some biscuits Mrs. Wright. Don't worry." Worry! The woman didn't know what she was saying. The worry was sending her frantic. "Tl pick up the ice cream, or run down for it, after I get home. I'm delayed, but T'll come as soon as I can." She didn't wait to hear what Mrs. Jarmen was saying. She couldn't wait. Mrs. James was looking for her. She was probably tired and was anxious to clean up. It was twenty minutes to one when Patricia finally turned the job over to Doris. She breathed a sigh of relief when she at last reached her own yard and rushed in through the back hall. She raced up the stairs to find a pretty apron, and, smelling the brown of hot biscuits, she conjectured what they might look like. Would they be big, fam- THE WHITE PICKET FENCE ily size discs, or what? Well it couldn't matter now. Things couldn't be any worse. With freshened face and a dainty apron, she went down the front stairs. She stood breathlessly still at the scene before her. The tables gleamed with beautiful creations? salad that looked like an advertisement, made of melon balls, cantaloupe, and grapes. Jellies in dainty dishes, rosebud radishes, and olives looked invitingly tempting to Patricia, as she came down the stairs and into the roomy kitchen. Mrs. Jarmen was bending over a huge pan of dollar-size hot bread, crusty and golden. On the stove stood the hot chocolate ready to pour. Chicken a la king was waiting to be served, and the concoctions in the other dishes Patricia couldn't name. On the table stood rows and rows of dainty tarts, her own menu carried out more elaborately even than she had dreamed. Patricia was overwhelmed. "Mrs. Jarmen," she said accusingly, "you should have told me you were a cateress." Mrs. Jarmen spread her honestlooking smile across her features. "No need," she said, "that's the fun of having neighbors?finding out about them." "It's all so lovely," said Patricia, 259 now understanding the Mona Lisa smile. Mrs. Jarmen had wanted to surprise her and she had succeeded famously. "How I can ever make this up to you will take me the rest of my life to figure out. You're a dear," she said as the doorbell rang and she went with pride to answer it. It was seven o'clock when Patricia stood by her kitchen window looking into the yard next door. She had already thought of a dozen ways she might show her appreciation to Mrs. Jarmen. The two girls might as well have the use of the piano that stood in the hall, so they wouldn't have to walk six blocks to the home of an aunt each day to practice. They must be persuaded to use the library upstairs, too, for their school work. She'd make Mrs. Jarmen an afghan and perhaps 'Tom could take Mr. Jarmen on a fishing trip. Tom spoiled her reverie when he came into the room with a saw and a hammer. "Have you seen any nails? I need some Pat, to fix your pickets." He looked at her questioningly. Patricia smiled slightly. "Tom," she said, with a sudden thought, 'let's not fix those pickets. Let's make a gate instead. It'll be so much handier than going way around." ?1-oAPPLE TREE IN APRIL Katherine Fernelius Larsen Dew-washed and fragrant, at the very edge of day She stands, glowing with the prescience of dawn. To whisper her poem to the tantalizing breeze, Then, after, scatter pink-edged pages on the lawn! Digging for Happiness Elizabeth Adamson YRA'S thoughts, as she walked home from Relief Society meeting, were a trifle confused. She had hated to tell Sister Packham that she had definitely decided she wouldn't keep on with her class lessons. And Sister Packham had been so nice about it; but her parting words traced an indelible line through Myra's mind. "I hope you'll reconsider, Myra. You'll make a wonderful teacher. Just try it once more. We all have hidden talents that give us a pleasurable surprise when we dig them out and use them. And it's surprising how much. Genuine joy and satisfaction we get in the process of digging." The last sentence, particularly, kept running through her mind, once in awhile interspersed with a remark of Tim's, "If you would only try, use a little patience. Big things aren't done in a hurry." Even Tim thought she had something that so far had failed to materialize. Myra was at her own gate. This time, instead of hurrying into the house, for some reason, she stopped to gaze about her. It's funny, she thought, I've never especially noticed how inviting Tim has made our yard. It's taken a long time to make things look like this?the white arbor, the flower beds, and even the grass. It's so orderly and peaceful out here that I hate to go in. She dropped down on the grass. Her thoughts kept on. What's the difference between Tim and me? He Page 260 gets results. He's happy and contented. He seldom complains. And I am practically the opposite. Why? Myra rested her head on her arms. Could there really be some magic in trying and doing instead of just dreaming and wishing? Suddenly Myra jumped to her feet, a look of resolution in her eyes. She would give Sister Packham's and Tim's hints a thoroughly honest try. She would stop dreaming about what she would like to have and do, and really find out for herself what applied effort would bring. Immediately upon making this decision, her blood began to pulsate with new life and she was filled with the need to go into action. Her mind raced ahead to the tasks and work she had to do. As she enumerated them one by one, and the list became longer, her determination began to ebb. There was Nancy's dress to finish, dishes to wash, ironing to be done, and dinner started, besides the other tasks she had left until she felt more in the mood. Oh, there were too many things! She never could get them all done. Ig was by sheer will power that Myra commandeered her fleeing energies to stop and come back to the battle front. "For," she said aloud, "it looks as if I really do have a battle, one of habit. That must be the way I've always been. When I have a stack of things to do, I either somehow back out and do them as I feel the urge, or rush through them DIGGING FOR HAPPINESS so fast nothing is done quite right. No wonder I'm never satisfied. But not this time. I'm going to prove to myself I can do things and do them well. I will! I will! I can, especially if the Lord will help me." She pushed open the door. As she glanced at the upheaval she had left when she went to Relief Society meeting she winced. But, undauntedly, she continued to her room. Here, at least, everything was in order. Tim generally came in here to do his work, and so she had thought he didn't particularly notice the rest of the house if this room was kept spic and span. Myra changed her clothes to some she could work in. Then she knelt down to pray and ask the Lord for help in carrying out her new resolution. When she arose, her eyes traveled to the desk. Of course, she thought, a schedule is what I need. It won't make so much difference if I'm slow getting started tonight if I know exactly what I'm going to do from now on. She sat down and began her list. She put in everything, including preparation for her Relief Society lesson. When she had completed it, she was astounded at the things there were to do, especially if she did things right. There was meal-planning, housework, sewing, time for the children, and all the little things that make a home seem to run on oiled wheels. After puzzling over her problem for several minutes, she decided to divide her list into a daily program, making sure each day saw something other than routine tasks done. Eventually, she was satisfied that her program covered all her duties. 261 She considered places to put the program, and at last decided that inside the cupboard door was handiest, where no one would be likely to notice it. For awhile that was what she wanted?secrecy in making herself over. Also, being in the cupboard, the schedule would always be close at hand for checking on herself. Dinner was well under way when Tim Morgan opened the door. "Um-m-m. Something smells good. What are you cooking?" he asked, by way of greeting. "Just the usual thing," Myra said, looking up at him from the finishing touches of Nancy's dress. She wanted to surprise him tonight, and anyway getting interesting meals was to be a regular feature in her schedule. "Well, that's that," said Myra as she held the dress up for a final scrutiny. "It's finished." And, to herself, added that it did look pretty and neat. At least she wasn't ashamed of this one. She'd had to do a good deal of unpicking and resewing to get it satisfactory. The feeling of something well done began to exhilarate her. It was with some constraint that she refrained from telling Tim about her decision, especially when he remarked, "Things must have gone pretty well in Relief Society today." "But they didn't. I made such a mess of the lesson. I thought maybe I would resign. I did start to. Then Sister Packham asked me to think it over again before I really said no." "She's night. You should never quit until you are absolutely certain within yourself that you cannot do the job." Tim had encouraged her 262 to take the class. He thought they both might get something out of it. Dinner was over, and Myra had completed her dishes. It had been worth the extra effort to make the steamed pudding. Tim had seemed to really enjoy everything, even though there were no remarks made. But she dreaded doing her next job ?sitting down to read over her next lesson. However, she reasoned with herself, if she started now she could think about it as she went to sleep and tomorrow she would be able to locate one of the references. She settled down to her reading. While she was finding her place a few paragraphs from an article in The Relief Society Magazine caught her eye: To live affirmatively, abundantly, is possible for each of us, and to do it is a major achievement. To fill one's days with useful work, to do well the task immediately in front of one is to be happy now and to make secure the future. A wellordered life is free from lost time, lost motion, desultory effort, and needless worry. One of the secrets of really great living is having ideals and standards and then living up to them. When we cherish lofty ideals and strive heroically to attain them, we are made both strong and happy. Even the Magazine has remarks of strength in it for me, and are applicable to me, she thought. OMETIMES it was hard for Myra to carry out her resolution. Unexpected things came up. Her old habits were very strong upon her. And on those days that she let them RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE-?-APRIL 1946 conquer she was as dissatisfied as she had ever been. But, on the days that her willpower won, she always went to bed happy. She even caught herself bursting into snatches of song. Tim, too, noticed the change. At first, he said nothing. Then, as things began to be easier for her to keep up with, he asked her if she had found a new formula for living. He had never seen things quite so nice, nor her quite so hapPy: But Myra told him nothing. She simply smiled and resolved to carry on even more strongly. Each day, too, she devoted a few minutes to study. Her crowning point of happiness was the ease and fluency with which she was able to present her Relief Society lesson. Not once did she falter, not even during a lively discussion. Tears of joy were in her eyes when Sister Packham put her arm around her after the meeting was over and said, "I believe that was one of the very best lessons | ever participated in. You do have a real knack for explaining the lesson and drawing us out." Silently Myra thanked the Lord and prayed for more help to carry on and gain even higher success and confidence in her abilities, that she might ever enjoy the satisfaction and joy of well-earned happiness. She knew she had only just begun. There. Were many more things to overcome and accomplish. But she would continue digging for happiness, for there was a veritable and great treasure to be gained. Ke w 3 a & nm & BO Ax iF 2) ? G6 my ? Et 2 B=) Ques Between the Dusk and the Dark Alice Whitson Norton 66 ETWEEN the dusk and the dark?did you ever stop to think of that one hour in the day, what it means to the countless mass of people who go and come by the clock?" asked a tired little saleswoman one afternoon, of a thoughtless customer who sat at one of the lace counters in a big department store, carelessly fingering the laces. "No," said the customer, "I never thought that that particular hour could mean very much to anybody; to me it's the hour that means I must be hurrying home in order to be there when my husband gets in. He is very particular about my being in the house when he comes home." "Isn't it wonderful," responded the saleswoman, "to be waiting for a kind man at the door of a home at the twilight hour?" "Sounds well enough for one who's never experienced the feeling," laughed the customer, "but to me twilight means getting home in time to let my husband in?nothing more." With that, the customer arose and made a hasty exit, and the saleswoman turned to me, who, being a customer, was awaiting my turn to be served. "Funny expression, wasn't it?" she said with a meaning nod towards the departing figure. ""That's all some people see in the twilight hour?but to me?" "You must love the twilight hour," I interrupted. "Love it?" she asked, "It's the Page 264 sweetest time of day to me?that one hour between dusk and dark, when every home-loving person begins to seek his own shelter." This statement was new to me, and believing the young woman on the other side of the counter had a vision worth sharing, I questioned her further. "TI call it the ecstasy hour," she said presently, "for in that one hour of the day I honestly believe that joy tules the world. You see," she went on softly, "it's the one hour in the whole twenty-four when people seemingly leave off their troubles? the thought of going home fills their minds, and trouble and _ business worries are laid away. You can feel the spirit of joyousness in the crowd that jams the street-cars at the twilight hour, and in their faces you can almost read what awaits them at the end of the journey. "You'll see the tired little mother eagerly watching for the glimpse of the street lamp where she leaves the car; the weary father leans anxiously towards the little bell on the car wall three blocks before it's time to ning it. The young husband, pretentiously reading the newspaper, folds it six blocks from his stopping place. That's the street-car side of it. Of course, that's a very small part now, for so many folks go and come in autos and buses. Even the auto, to me," laughed the girl, "plays an important part in this home-coming hour of mine." "You are quite an observing young lady," I said, by way of response. BETWEEN THE DUSK AND THE DARK "Perhaps," she answered, "1 am a little too observing?but back to the home-coming hour: I happen to live in the North Street '[riangle apartment house, and from. My window I can view three streets, and from close observation, have learned a lot about home-comets. CofrOR instance," she continued, "I often sit at the window and watch the cars come down Long Avenue. I can tell almost at a glance just where they are going to stop. One car, with four blazing lights, turns the corner slowly, stops before the biggest house on the street; then, even more slowly than the car aproached, a man gets out and drags himself wearily up the long walk. Indifferently he turns the keys in the door and goes in." "Why indifferently?" 1 asked. "Because," answered the young woman, "nobody lives there but himself." "One little two-eyed car turns the comer like an ice skater, making a curve, and rolls swiftly to the curb before a tiny house. The driver gets out and, going in, is in keeping with the movement of the car?he's in a hurry to get home." "You're sure about that?" I asked. "Quite sure," she answered sweetly, "there's a wife and baby waiting for him within the little house." "Next," she went on, a bit slowly, "usually comes a small coupe. This car belongs to a business woman. She drives her cat just as cate fully as she manages her business, and doesn't stop until she's inside the garage." "Ts she in a hurry?" I questioned eagerly. 265 "No," said the saleswoman, "she is neither rushed nor slow. To her this coming home hour is just part of the busy day. 'True, she has her parents to look after when she arrives, but, having provided for theit comfort before she left home in the morning, she feels no need to hurry in the evening. "Then, there is another cat?" For a minute the speaker paused and I was just beginning to feel as if she were going to leave off the most important one of all, when she smiled bravely. "I know it," she continued softly, "the instant it turns the curve on Long Avenue, because it doesn't run as smoothly as the others do, for the driver has only one arm, but as it comes wiggling up the street, my heart seems to come right up into my mouth, for in it comes the most lovable man in the world. He is my ?my husband. We met each other in the twilight, we were married between the dusk and dark?he enlisted in the great World War, between the dusk and dark, was wounded in action just as day was kissing the world goodbye. He came home pruised in body and broken in spirit, and for months it seemed as if nothing could save him. It was then that I began to work at this store, and, coming home one evening in the dusk, I found him waiting for me with a smile. So you see," she fin- 'shed softly, "what the home-coming hour means to me." "T see," I answered huskily, "and henceforth and forever the twilight hour will have a new meaning for me?the home-coming hour?the hour when troubles are laid aside in the joy of coming pack to those we love." A Floral Symphony Betti Williamson on a winter-darkened world like a miracle. Children's footsteps echo in glad rhythm along the sidewalk, and the "swish-swish" of the housewife's broom, sweeping the path, is a sound that comes to the eager ear with pure delight. Even the sound of the rake, gathering last fall's leaves from the driveway, is a note closely tuned to joy. The welcome sunlight ? slants across the garden wall and turns the brown grass to verdant green. Almost beneath the gardener's watchful eye, the crocus unfurls its bright aureole of satin petals, and the tulip bud expands into a colored cup of waxen beauty. Regal as a queen, wearing the royal purple, the hyacinth reigns ia first spring day breaks upin the court of springtime flowers. And yet the busy housewife, the hurried mother, may not find time to truly enjoy the most exquisite season, to breathe in the fragrance of flowers that fade all too fast. For this reason, many homemakers bring some of the springtime flowers into the house.. Pansies and violets, dug up in small clumps, with the roots protected by soil, may easily be transferred to a yellow bowl to grace the comer table or to adorn the top of the bookcase. Tulips, hyacinths, and daffodils, when the buds are ready to open, may be dug up and placed in flower pots for indoor blooming. A single blossom or a simple flower arrangement will delight the A FLORAL SYMPHONY family and bring to the housewife that abiding sense of beauty so necessary to the spirit of the home. Many time floral arlangements that bring the bright colors of the hills and fields and orchards into the house, Owers may be arranged into harmonious designs by blue grape hyacinths cari) make a d the atmosphere of April. If your child's birthday happens very special center. Piece. Candy rabbits or Plastic rab. 267 bits may be combined with a vegetable platter. Use a border of curly endive or cuisp lettuce, with tadishes, carrots, watercress, and turnips for the center arrangement. Children will like vegetables much better when they see how teally beautiful these necessary foods can be. Perhaps you haye a guest ora relative visiting in the home. Perhaps you have asked a few of the neighbors in to spend the afternoon. Why not prepare a luncheon with an interesting and attractive color scheme? You might spread a yellow linen cloth with a springtime "floral symphony" for a centerpiece. Here are some suggested combinations: Yellow daffodils in a pale green bow] with green vases or figurines. Ite hyacinths airanged with q pair of porcelain bluebirds, Multi-colored Pansies in a yellow bowl. Circle the bowl with alternating blue and yellow candy Easter eggs. The menu, also, may be planned to harmonize with spring. As a yellow-green color scheme, the follow. 268 ing menu will prove delightful: Minted Fruit Cup Souffle Radishes and small green onions Hot rolls Leaf lettuce Tiny cup cakes frosted with pale yellow and green icing Beverage made of lime, lemon, and orange juice The minted fruit cup may be made with various fruit combinations, but you will find this recipe delicious: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL 1946 Crush a half pound of mint candy. Add one cup of pineapple or orange juice. Pour this mixture over individual servings of sliced pineapple, grapefruit, and oranges. When flowers and food and springtime are properly combined, the result is sure to be delightful. Try this artistic accomplishment in your own home, and you will know that April has come to the inside of the home as well as to the outside. Emulating Grandmother Linda S. Fletcher HE occasional angry chord that T crashed out from the piano under the touch of Elaine Norris' fragile-looking, but very strong, pale hands betrayed the indignant climax to which her thoughts kept building. The emotional turmoil thus expressed had been started on its incendiary way by her husband's suggestion the previous evening after dinner, as they were enjoying a game of dominoes in their comfortable living-room, that they join a group which was planning to rent land and produce a four-acre vegetable garden. For a moment Elaine had been stunned by the proposition. Then: "But, John," she had almost wailed, "my music?my Hands!" Elaine had always thought of her hands with a capital "H." John had smiled just a little, she remembered, as he had paused briefly to place the domino which had scored him a "twenty." "But it won't be as bad as all of that," he had assured her soothingly. "There will be a dozen families tending the garden, and so we shall each need to spend only a few hours two or three evenings a week to keep it in a first-class condition. I think it will be good for us to work in the soil." "T'm sure I'm in very good physical condition," Elaine had retorted haughtily. "I do my exercises every day." "But I'm sure you'll find a few unused muscles if you get to tending a garden," John had smiled in return. "But my USO work," Elaine had further protested, "and the Civic Opera! And do you forget that I am doing almost all of the work in keeping up this big house? As for you ?don't you get enough contact with Mother Earth in caring for our grounds?" "With Tommy Wells mowing the grass, I don't have too much to do. A couple of hours in the morming will give me time to keep things in good condition. And you will not have to give up your weekly evening at the USO. I wouldn't want you to be unable to play for the Service Men's Broadcast. As for the opera?the work in the garden at that time will not be so heavy that you'll be prevented from assisting with its presentation. Everyone, now, should raise a garden." "But you and I can afford to buy what we need." "Of course?if there is food to be had. But I look at it this way, with Mary and Beth both moving so frequently from place to place in order to be with their husbands, they aren't going to be able to do any canning, and I'm sure Robert will be much better fed in the army, if we help to increase the food supply for ourselves here at home." Elaine's eyes had softened then, as they again softened now, and nostalgic notes throbbed from the piano. Her three children had departed almost simultaneously from the home nest, leaving the big house very empty. Though she had left much of their care to others, Elaine Page 269 270 had loved her children dearly, even if her accustomed aloofness toward everything except her music had prevented her demonstrating that affection. Under this softening spell, she had agreed rather vaguely that perhaps they had better join the garden group, and she and John had turned to the discussion of other things. THs morning, however, alone at her piano for her usual several hours of practice, her resentment flared anew. John knew how carefully she must guard her hands, those members which had been given such painstaking care for as long, almost, as she could remember. "Your hands are just like Grandmother Elaine's,' her mother had told her, as she was growing through the period of small girlhood. "If we take care of them, you may some day become the great concert pianist which she gave promise of being." And John knows, too, that I don't care for intimate association with people?that most of them bore me, Elaine told herself. This dwelling apart had begun early for Elaine, for while still very young, she had given proof that she had inherited, at least in some measure, her grandmother's gift. Her whole family had been trained by her mother to cherish her "Hands," though not without some grumbling on the part of her two sisters when they had to wash the dishes, scrub the floors, do the laundry, and perform numerous other tasks that the mother had thought would coarsen and stiffen Elaine's cherished fingers. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL 1946 To do Elaine justice, she had spent long hours practicing and had really become the outstanding musician in the small town where her family lived. Later, due to her mother's indomitable determination, the family's limited resources had been taxed to send her to Salt Lake City for further study. There, she had developed adequately, if not brilliantly. But before many more years had passed, various auditions had proved to her that she lacked the spark of greatness. Rather than admit this, however, she had married John Nomis, a young architect who was fast becoming well established in Denver. This marriage had given her the excuse for not attempting a concert career. They had been able to afford a maid almost from the first days of their life together, and later, a cook and a gardener. John had encouraged her to keep up her music, feeling, as Elaine had agreed, properly contrite that he had accepted so great a sacrifice at her hands. She had soon established herself in the musical circles of Denver, where her services were soon much in demand in connection with various civic enterprises. So meticulously had she devoted herself to her piano ever since that, even now, when she was well over forty, she was still considered one of the city's leading pianists. She was vaguely conscious at times of late, however, that there were better musicians who could take her place and she had to stifle a desire to let down a little?she did have to practice very hard to keep up?and give these younger ones a chance. EMULATING GRANDMOTHER UT habit was stronger than the voice of this inner desire. That was why it had dismayed her s0 sirable employment, Now, she was able to get a woman only twice a week, and that at an exorbitant wage, grateful that she owned sO many Jabor-saving devices and that the place Was in perfect repair, Otherwise, she was sure she could not have managed to keep it up, Something an imPelling force within her had told her tomed tasks, thinking! But, perhaps there be much work for her to do at the garden, after all. Toom and ended in 4 circling landing that gave access to the several Tooms on the second floor. Made from an old tintype and exhibited it proudly, although she laid much more stress on her ancestor's on her Pioneering achievements. Elaine's mind worked that way. Ere was the same oval face, with its wide-set haz. El eyes; the same golden-brown hair, "Grandmother," she told the portrait softly, "I know that if you could give me advice, you would tell me to cherish my ability to play well above was denied you. Well, don't worty, dear, wherever you are. I won't let you down. [']] keep our music where it should be?first and fore. Most. You had to give up your life of culture. I don't have to forsake Grandmother smiled serenely 272 down upon her. Grandmother did not look like a frustrated woman, Elaine thought, uncertainly. Her first few times at the garden bore out Elaine's belief that it would make but few claims upon her. A man who had the implements came to plow and harrow, and she and John drove out to survey the work he had done. Elaine found herself unwillingly aware of the sweetness of the early spting evening. It seemed to her the materialized spirit of great music. As the evening advanced a little, and moonlight whitened the earth, she felt that the silvery cadences of The Moonlight Sonata had become visible beauty. It was not until several weeks later that Elaine began to realize how demanding the garden was to be. John came in one evening to tell her that all of the women who could go would be needed the following evening to help in their first big planting of beans. "Well, I can wear gloves," Elaine promised herself. But the beans were hard to control with gloved hands; too many rolled out at a time. Finally, she removed the gloves and really got interested in placing her beans into the rows as fast as the other women could drop theirs. After a very short time, however, her muscles began to protest. So she was in condition, was she? She remembered her boast to John, and pride made her work doggedly on. Soon she got her "second wind" and was able to finish triumphantly. When John inquired rather anxiously as they were driving home how she felt, she answered that she was fine. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL 1946 "Not so much out of condition as you would have me believe," she laughed gaily. "Well then," he told her, "you'll be available for the corn planting tomorrow night." HUS it was that Elaine found herself planting corn the following evening. This wasn't as hard as the bean planting had been. She found she could stand upright and toss the kernels exactly where they should go. She helped plant corn again the next evening. However, when John made ready to go to the garden for the fourth consecutive time, Elaine protested. "But you said we'd have to spend only two or three evenings a week there," she reminded him. "So I did," agreed John. "However, the corn must be planted. We should have had it done if we had had a large enough turnout the other evenings, but we didn't, so those of us who will come out will have to complete the job. Of course, you don't need to go unless you want to." But Elaine found she had something within her that wouldn't allow her to be a quitter. She was rather chagrined the next day to find that she was too sleepy to practice effectively. She decided that she had better take a short nap. On her way up to her room, she paused before Grandmother's picture. The eyes above her seemed to twinkle. "I suppose that's why you went on, too," Elaine thought. "When there was a job to be done, you couldn't quit, either." Now, as weeds began to make their appearance, the garden became more and more demanding. Elaine hoed EMULATING GRANDMOTHER without regard for her hitherto carefully tended hands. Blisters and then callouses appeared, but she could not stop. The hoe could not remove the weeds from between the plants, therefore Elaine took off her gloves that she might carefully pull these by hand. Would they ever be able to catch up with the intruders! It seemed not, for there was never more than half of the garden group present to work. "If everyone would come out and help, we could keep this garden looking as it should," she wailed to John. Because the work was so pressing, Elaine found herself reluctant to take time off for the USO. She wasn't really needed there. 'There were others, younger women, who could do the job as well as she could, and she knew that the soldiers, for all their appreciation, preferred that the girls play for their song fests. Therefore, after a few weeks, Elaine automatically put on her slacks and went to the garden each evening. It was payment enough to see those tows of vegetables become clean and sturdy. "Well, Grandmother," she told her ancestor's portrait, as the protests within her subsided and were being replaced by patient content: ment with her exacting work, "I'm getting to know you better, You found joy in doing a worthwhile job tight and were willing to take the consequences, just as I am." Soon the canning season arrived, and the days became crowded from dawn to late at night. To Elaine, it seemed that a new woman was emerging from the aloof, cool chrysalis of her former self, which had dwelt apart as the rather mechanical interpreter of music. The 273 piano was now much neglected; certainly the masters were, for Elaine found that when she sat down to the instrument, new melodies clamored for expression. Her fingers wandered over the keys, striving to give these life. HERE was something of the garden in these melodies and ev- ?n something of the community canning kitchen and the people who worked there with her. The melodies also held the deep contentment which she felt at the end of each work-filled day. And now she found herself set. Ting down notes: a Piano concerto was being born. She had never dreamed that she might compose! In the concerto she traced wonderingly her contact with reality? with truth. Here, was the mauve of evening, the flame of sunset, the satisfaction of toil, the thythm of growing things, and the expanding of a soul. Here, also, was the fruition of the harvest?the jade, tuby, and gold treasures of the storehouse. Elaine played her composition exultantly. Interpreting the music of others was a delight, but in creating something of truth and beauty herself, her most marvelous experience had come to her. "So that was your secret, Grandmother," she told the portrait after her awakening. "You knew the supreme joy of creating, and your whole life, consequently, made music, 'Tm glad I'm truly like the real. You, now, Grandmother. I am not merely 'Hands,' but mind and heart as well." The inner Elaine has been set free. OFFERINGS Etta S. Robbins Thanks from our hearts we give For blessings small and great, For homes and ties that bind In this estate. For liberty, we still maintain? That heritage sublime; For faith in him of Calvary, Our Lord divine. O Thou, who freely ministers, Supplying all our needs, Accept the offerings we bring words and deeds. Ke SPRING SHADOWS Elsie E. Barrett In A filigree of shadow Is loomed upon the wall From warp of empty branches Whose woof decayed in fall. Now throbbing spring is busy eaving winter's tested mold, and roses, Rew A weft of leaves New patterns from the old. Page 274 The Scar Martha Robeson Wright R. Bowen's hand was gentle on her arm, though his voice was firm. "It could be much worse, you know, Rowena. It's a clean scar; no infection, and it's on the side of your face." Rowena Marshall sat stiff and upright in her chair. Her left hand was moving on her face, following the ridge from the left temple down to her neck. "It isn't fair to have such a scar, just from tripping over a rug. If only that vase hadn't been there. I was always going to get rid of that big ugly thing." "That's the way it is, sometimes," the doctor said. "You musn't worry too much. You know, Rowena, most women would consider themselves lucky to be as good looking as you are, right now, scar included. Well there's nothing more I can do for you. I'll be on my way." "You?you really think a plastic surgeon could take this away?" The doctor closed his bag with a snap. "Absolutely. But it takes a lot of money these days?if you can find a good man who isn't busy patching up the wounded soldiers. Goodbye, Rowena." "Goodbye, Dr. Bowen," she answered dully and allowed him to let himself out of the apartment. When the door closed behind him, Rowena buried her face in her hands. Tears ran through her fingers. Then, as if on puppet strings, she jerkily took her handkerchief from her pocket and dabbed at her eyes. She arose woodenly from her chair and walked to the large oval mirror that hung on the west wall of the pleasantly furnished living room. Her glossy black hair had not begun to whiten. Her large, deep, violet-blue eyes were as flashing as ever, with brows like blackbirds' wings. Long thick lashes threw shadows on her cheeks. Rowena turned her head, first one side to the mirror and then the other. If people could see only the right side of her face, they would not see the scar. But, on the left side, they would see the thin, but rough and jagged line that stood out in contrast against the fine whiteness of her skin, the lovely ears, the classic outline of her jaw. Without the scar, she was lovely. People on the street always turned to watch her. Now they would tum to stare?at the scar! Don would have felt sorry for her, but he would have had more pathy for himself. She could alenast see his handsome face with its golden curls, a huge, blond viking of a man with all the charm and arrogance of a young god, laughing over her shoulder. He loved perfection in everything. "You are beautiful, gorgeous! We belong together. Two perfect specimens," he had always said. When he was in the right mood he was the most thrilling man Rowena had ever known. But he was too mercurial to remain in one tempera: ment for long, and the sudden changPage 275 . 276 es were extremely trying to her emotions. He would be just as dramatic in his penitence as in his anger. THEN, it seemed to Rowena, that Don's personality faded from the mirror, and Basil came into view. Basil, with his kind heart and his patched-up face that showed the patches only when he smiled. Dear Basil. He understood how she felt about her scar. He would never be chagrined because she was not a perfect specimen now. She was glad that it was Basil who was alive instead of Don, though she had loved Don more than anyone in the world. But she couldn't have borne Don's growing indifference because she wore a flaw. Rowena turned away from the mirror and began pacing the room. There was thankfulness in her heart that she was married to Basil now. He would do anything she asked, no matter what the personal sacrifice might be, to make her happy. He knew what her beauty meant. And she was glad that she had been beautiful, for she felt that such loveliness had procured for her everything she had felt worth having in life. Rowena could remember the first time Don had brought Basil home with him. She and Don had just returned to town from their honeymoon. Basil hadn't known Don was married. Don had insisted that his old friend come home with him to dinner and to meet his lovely bride. Rowena had been shocked almost beyond good manners when she saw the left side of Basil's face when he smiled. It hadn't been noticeable when his features were in repose. All that evening she had managed to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL 1946 keep her eyes away from the disfigurement. She noticed that Basil always tried to have this unmarred side toward her. When Basil had gone she had asked Don about the scar. "If you must know the truth, my precious, that is the man who saved my life. I might have been the one with the false jaw and the grafted skin. I never could have stood it. I''d have committed suicide. Thank goodness, it's only noticeable on him when he smiles." "Poor thing. He's the kind of a man who has a smiling disposition, too. He rescued you and paid that price? Oh, Don, you owe him such a debt." Don had fidgeted impatiently. "Yes, my dear. He wasahero. He is my best friend. But I hadn't seen him in fifteen years. He was in the hospital and went through so many operations. He sort of kept to himself." "T like him, Don. He is sweet and kind. And very lonely." "Good! We'll be the Three Musketeers." They had been. 'Three good friends until the day Don died; both Rowena and Basil balance wheels for the effervescent Don. Don had been a petulant and exacting patient. He left Rowena with two little boys and no money. His illness had taken everything, and the life insurance went to pay accumulated bills. Rowena stopped her pacing by the living room windows to look out and see the cold bleakness outside. It was on just such a day that Basil had asked her to marry him. It had surprised her. It had never occurred to her that he would have the temerity to think that she would THE SCak marry him. It presented a way out of her difficulties. Basil would be a good father to the children, and he loved her. She knew that if she hadn't been beautiful he would not have asked her to marry him. He didn't expect too much of her. He had said, "I know it couldn't be like it was with Don; but we aren't youngsters now. I want to take care of you and the boys." He had taken care of them. Her life with Basil had become sweet, peaceful, gracious. She had never known such a quiet happiness. The boys were grown now, and in college trying to complete their studies before being called into the army. Basil had been successful in business, though now things were becoming a bit difficult. He gave her everything she wanted. His sympathy over her accident had given her the courage to face things. He said very little; it hadn't been necessary. It was all there in his gentle eyes. He would think of some way that would enable them to get the money for a plastic operation. She would have to ask him more about it when he came home. The sound of a key in the latch caused Rowena to turn from the window. "Anybody home?" called Basil from the front hall. She hurriedly replaced her handkerchief, and pushed back her hair. "In the living room," she said. Basil came in, his cheeks red with the cold. He looked happy. "You're home early." He took her hands. News. Want to hear it?" "Of course." ""Let's sit down." He led her to the sofa, and sat down, as he always did, automatical- "T've good 277 ly, so she could see the right side of his face. Only now, he could see the left side of her face. "T've managed to get some money to have that scar taken away. Dr. Condon, the best in the world, is here at the Veteran's Hospital doing some special work. He'll do it." She sat quite still. "Basil, it would take an awful lot of money." "T have five thousand dollars." Her eyes filled with tears. "Oh, Basil, you are wonderful!" "IT want my wife to be happy," he said softly. "I?I suppose men take things differently. Your face?I?I suppose you have become so accustomed to it that you forget you have the scar." He did not speak for a moment. Then he shrugged his shoulders. "My face doesn't matter. I've never been beautiful." OWENA sat stunned. In a flash she knew what she had never been sensitive enough to realize before. Basil had never become accustomed to his disfigurement. He had gone through his first realizations of things just as she had done. He might not have been beautiful, but that was not the point. Feeling the pity of his friends and family as they tried to appear casual about his scar must have been torture. But Basil's scar had taught him tolerance, understanding, and kindness. Her scar had taught her nothing but self-pity. Basil's deep, quiet philosophy of life, she realized, had been the background of her happiness. Her life with Basil, from her point of view, had been based on a compassionate tolerance of his affection, like that of a beauty for one who worships at her shrine. 278 Basil had been a much better father to her sons than Don would have been. They had called him Uncle Basil at first, but it soon became shortened to Basil. Then, no one knew exactly when, he had become "Dad." Rowena knew she had been a good wife. She had never given herself to him unreservedly; but he hadn't expected her to. He had said so. He had been happy to bask in the warmth of her lovely graciousness, a family man with a hearth to warm his toes and the children's laughter to warm his heart. It came to her now, in this moment of self-revelation, that she had never tried to understand his real feelings. His one thought, and hers, had been for her happiness. She knew now what she wanted to do. Basil put his hand in hers as it rested on the cushion of the sofa. "Aren't you happy?" She curled her fingers inside of his but did not look at him. "S-suppose I didn't want the operation?" she said softly. His hand convulsed quickly over hers. "It's all right. I have the money. We won't go into debt. I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL 1946 know, you see, how it feels to be marred. You're so lovely, I couldn't bear to see you so hurt." "T'm not so lovely with the scar, I know. But I think I'll keep it. To keep me humble. It may grow fainter after awhile. Unless?unless you feel that it spoils my appearance too much. I know most men marry first with their eyes." He released her hand and stood, facing her. "Your scar doesn't matter to me. Did you think I married you because you were beautiful? Haven't you realized what a contrast we make? I loved you for your gallant spirit with Don, your kindness to me. And, I knew Don's nature much better than you. You?you and the boys have given me the most wonderful years a man ever had. These are the things that count. Beautiful faces grow just as old and wrinkled as the plain ones." Rowena arose to face him, her eyes level with his. Her arms went around his neck. As he began to understand her, a flush of happiness spread over his face. His eyes were illumined by what he saw in her eyes. She kissed him. On the left side of his face. SPRING Beatrice K. Ekman The April sky is blue and clear; After the gentle fall of rain Warm sunlight floods the fields again The spring, the spring is here! = FROM THE FIELD Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. MESSAGES FROM THE MISSIONS (Continued) New England Mission, Concord Branch (New Hampshire) FROM the New England Mission where Sister Bertha S. Reeder is President of the Relief Society, the following communication has been received from the Concord Branch through Sister Donna S. Fletcher, President: "T understand that with the establishment of this Relief Society, that now we have a Relief Society in every state in the Union. Even though New Hampshire was the last state to have a Relief Society, I feel that our little group has made great progress in its year of organization. "We hold meetings every Tuesday. Every member except myself is a convert to the Church. Sometimes our members are few, as the NEW ENGLAND MISSION, CONCORD (NEW HAMPSHIRE) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Left to right: Violet and Edna Jessman, Lela Hammond, Stella Jessman; Jennie Anderson, First Counselor; Donna S. Fletcher, President; Geril Monahan. Beatrice Smith, Secretary, was not present when the photograph was taken. Page 279 heavy snowstorms and distance of travel make it impossible for everyone to attend regularly. "Last year we made a quilt and sent it, along with many bundles of clothing, to the New England mission home. My husband and I, as natives of Utah, are greatly enjoying our work in the Church in Concord. We feel it a privilege to be able to have so many wonderful people with whom to associate. May God bless The Relief Society Magazine for the fine service it renders." Southern States Mission EFF IE MEEKS, Relief society President, Southern States Mission, writes under date of October 20, 1945: "We are happy to get back to work after such an inspiring conference. I feel now as if I might be able to do double duty, and in fact, we have had it to do since we came back. Work really piles up when one is away for awhile. "Enclosed is the picture of the pillowcases which I promised to send you. These were all made from feed sacks and the women drew their own designs. They were made by the Sylacauga Branch in Alabama. In order to bleach the lettering from the sacks they are soaked in bleaching solutions, 'following directions on the package. "The Georgia District started a cookbook several years ago by gathering favorite recipes from people in their district and also from all mission president's wives that have been in the South. The book has never been completed and now I have an idea that I would like to suggest to them, that we encourage RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL 1946 all the women of the Mission to contribute their favorite recipes and make it a real Southern State's cookbook." Danish Mission THE following excerpts from a letter written to Second Counselor Gertrude R. Garff from Sister Eva Gregersen of the Danish Mission will prove of interest to Relief Society members everywhere: "President Benson and two other American elders here were supposed to arrive tomorrow, Saturday, and stay over Sunday. Suddenly my husband came running home and told me that they had arrived unexpectedly and that President West was not at home until later, so we had better go down to the mission home and help entertain them until President West came. "Oh, what a lovely time we had! The new apostle seems to be a very wonderful man. I was just thrilled to sit and listen to him. It was just like the good old days to have Americans around again. I am sure we will have some wonderful meetings on Sunday. "We have had many people out to the meetings lately. One of the reasons, I am sure, is that we have received these wonderful gifts from you, our dear friends of the United States. We have all received something. Especially am I happy for the wonderful blanket and the good quilt. Every member has received some kind of blanket or quilt, and I can tell you that it is badly needed. Ole [her son] got a nice pair of pants. It is his only pair. To say that we are thankful is putting it mildly, overwhelmed is the better word." NOTES FROM THE FIELD 28) SOUTHERN STATES MISSION, SYLACAUGA BRANCH (ALABAMA) HAND-EMBROIDERED PILLOWCASES Pillowcases made from feed sacks, with original embroidery designs made by the Relief Society members. Photograph submitted by Effie Meeks, President Southern States Mission Relief Society. 282 Samoan Mission j= OQ. ADAMS, President of the Samoan Mission, reports an interesting activity in the islands: "Annually, in Samoa, the Relief Society goes over the mission with a fine-tooth comb inspecting, scrutinizing, pondering, suggesting, commending, condemning, judging, and even fining! It is a procedure effected in the spirit of kindness and the genuine desire to help raise the standards of the family, and hence of the Church as well. May we briefly follow such a group? "Relief Society officers and members of all ages are arranged in groups convenient in size and in proximity to the field to be inspected. The date is fixed so that each district knows when to expect the goingover. "T saw one group in very efficient jovial operation at Pesega Mission headquarters. How the dozen keeneyed sisters, all faultlessly gowned, chuckled when one of them hoisted an office chair on our desk and found dust on its underside! They went over our spacious domicile from cellar to garret?then ended up with the proverbial singing and dancing that make Samoa what it is?a land of music, rhythm, and joy. "Where I have observed the plan in operation, it produces good results. Each family gets out all its dishes, utensils, bedding, mats, pillows, sheets, blankets, clothing, etc. All are expected to be clean, mended, and usable. First, the visiting party all bathe and change into clean clothes, and have the customary greetings of speeches, etc. It is the custom to give the people being visited crackers and cocoa. Then, the work is begun. A scrutinizing peep RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL 1946 ?or more than a peep?is taken of the house and its contents and surroundings. If all is up to requirements, all well and good, the family receives commendation. If not, kindly and constructive criticism and suggestions are made, and the family may even be fined a few shillings, which goes into the Relief Society fund. "A house of a certain size requires a certain number of coarse floor mats, with better ones covering them, as the pebble floor would soon ruin the finer top ones. The same applies to fine beautiful bed mats. The woven shutters, which are always raised high unless it is raining hard, are part of the requirements. Pillows are filled with the native 'tree' cotton. Many families have mattresses made of this cotton and it serves well. The sisters also work beautiful designs on pillowcases in colored thread, also, on bedspreads, doilies, etc. There must be enough of everything to make the home comfortable for all its occupants?enough mosquito nets, for instance. If the house leaks, renovation is pointed out as a pressing need. If the ground about the house is littered or weedy (and it seldom is in Samoa), pressure is brought to bear to have it cleaned. If cooking utensils and dishes are insufficient, getting some cheap ones is recommended. In no case are hardships imposed upon anyone, for almost any native can cut, dry, and sell enough coconuts to buy these necessities and comforts. "So these middle-aged and older Relief Society sisters of Samoa, with their unique, consistent and_ thorough system of encouraging their members to maintain model homes and surroundings, are pioneers in NOTES FROM THE FIELD 283 what might wel] be followed elseby bit, so 4s to make Cakes, Cookies where, Many a home in the U. S. A. And candies. Some of the members would not Pass inspection in Sa. Donated Sugar and others took the moa!" time to Prepare cakes, etc. Ma. North Western States Mission 00s Bay ( Oregon) Branch tuffs < forth' wh MARTHA HUNT, Preident of time rollale ??? 208 Bay Branch (Oregon ? Teceipts this year were work to make it 4 success and saved is no task too big for the Coos Bay their Sugar throughout the year, bit Relief Society.' " ESTERN STATES MISSION GON) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Standing, left to right: Wilma Smith; Lucille Guinan, Literature Leader; Hannah in Northwestern States Mission Juneau (Alaska) Branch RYELYN P. TANNER, President of the Juneau (Alaska) Branch Relief Society, describes a sacrament meeting program and other interesting activities: "March 4th (1945) the branch presidency gave the time in sacrament meeting allotted to speakers to the Relief Society. We carried out the program suggested in the Bulletin as closely as possible for our small group. The dialogue, all the talks, and: most of the musical selections were given. We enjoyed preparing and carrying out this program which was acclaimed as very interesting by the audience. "For further commemoration, on March 8th, our business and social evening, we prepared a special lunchRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL 1946 eon for our group and spent the evening sewing and relating reasons for our interest in Relief Society and the great need we have for the association and the uplift and knowledge we receive from the activities." Northwestern States Mission Buckley (Washington) Branch NORA SMITH, President of Buckley Branch Relief Society, reports on a very successful bazaar: "The Relief Society bazaar and bake sale of the Buckley Branch of the Northwestern States mission was held December 5, 1945, in the Relief Society rooms of our church and was very successful. The members began preparing for the bazaar immediately following the New Year and worked willingly and diligently all through the regular year, as well NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION JUNEAU (ALASKA) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY Back row, standing, left to right: Margaret Skinner, Trudy Nielsen, Ruth Bost, Doris Clift, Doris McClellan, Ethel Westfall, Norrine Kunz. Seated, left to right: Vesta Lorz, Secretary-Treasurer,; Maude Kunz, First Counselor; Evelyn P. Tanner, President; Una Kershaw, Second Counselor. NOTES ROM THE FIELD 285 as meeting once each week duting raisin bread, cakes, pies; cookies, the summet months. One hundred candy and popcorn balls. Proceeds seventy pieces were made, which infrom the sale were very satisfactory - cluded one satin quilt, other quilts, There are thirteen members in the jllowcases, tea towels, juncheon branch, all of whom are willing sets, aprons, shopping bags, clothesworkers. We took in $268 at our pin bags, laundry bags, dolls, sewing bazaar. This money is being used bags and doilies. Out bake sale conto furnish out Relief Society with 3 sisted of W ite, d beautiful new stove, dishes, etc." see Peek. Ers = NORTHWESTERN STATES MISSION, BUCKLEY (WASHINGTON) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR Left to right: Nora Smith, President, Arvilla Loomis, First Counselor; Rubs Smith, Secretary; Henrietta Fisher, Nettie Blessing, Bette Blessing, June Klink, Helen Gene Romolo [f a thousand springs, for me, should come and go Of each one, 1 would poignantly. Remember The April tears an smiles that pring the cup Of tulip, crocus, and the daffodil, And from a brown pulb, Easter blooms lift up No long?t walks, each spring has prought to me Assurance of his love's infinity. Se GOD MUST LOVE THE BEAUTIFUL Mabel Jones Gabbott God must love the beautiful; He made his world so fair, He crowned the earth with hills that stand Jewelled in the high blue air; He nestled lakes among the trees, And curved the seas with care. God must love the beautiful; His heaven, high and free, Splashed with brilliant patterned stars In chorused harmony, Circles round about his world, With gleaming symmetry. God must love the beautiful, What colors he has planned: Pink and white of blossomed trees, Ocean-tinted sand, Greening fields, and earth-brown clod? All fashioned by his hand. Sie Page 286 Let's Make Dickies GPRING is here in all its glory. How about a "Dickie Day" for the Work-Meeting Tuesday? A change of dickies gives an old suit a teal rejuvenation. Where shall we get the material? Dickies require comparatively small pieces of material and they are easily cut. The only shaping necessary is at the neck, back and front, and a slight slope to the shoulder. Let's look in the scrap bag. Here is a piece of lawn. A twenty-inch length by a_ twelve-inch width will make a plain front. A strip one-inch wide, when finished down the front with narrow rickrack, and a bow at the neck to match, makes an interesting finishing. If there is enough material, the back of the dickie may be cut of the same material as the front. If not, a bleached sugar sack will do as well. Make an opening in the center back seven or eight inches long. 'This same style works nicely with plain or corded rayon and rayon rickrack. Tape is placed about one inch from the bottom and tied on each side to hold the dickie firm. Now, find a piece of georgette about seventeen inches wide and twenty inches long, plus some scraps for a bow, and we shall soon have another dickie. This one will be pintucked in groups of threes, three C4 = groups on each side of the front. Shape the neck, then make a net back which has an eight or nine inch opening down the center back, and bind the neck with a bias piece of the georgette. At the center front, place a bow made of a double piece of georgette. Pin tucks, lace, and insertion will work together effectively in a dickie of either lawn or batiste. A frilly jabot may be added; or the dickie may be left with a plain neck. A discarded organdy evening dress may be used to advantage in making sheer dickies. The tail of a man's shirt makes a neat, easily laundered dickie. These, and many otherwise unused materials, may be used advantageously in a "Dickie Day Project." Page 287 = == = a ? RELIEF SOCIETY GIFTS FOR MOTHER'S DAY Gift Cards Included When Requested Wicial Keliof Society in No. 1 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 24 carat gold-plated. Price $1.20, postpaid. No. 2 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid-gold front gold filled, with 24-carat gold-plated back. Price $2.00, postpaid. Both pins are identical as to design, size, and coloring, and bear the organization date. 1842. These prices include Federal excise tax. _A Contenary of Kelief Society A panorama of Relief Society's first hundred years in picture and story, containing much material heretofore unpublished. Invaluable to all Relief Society workers. Bound in a blue paper book cover, with its title 'A Centenary of Relief Society'' and the centennial insignia beautifully embossed in gold. 96 pages. Size 9x12 inches. Over 500 pictures of historical interest. Special price 50 cents per copy. Postpaid. Kelief Society Magazine Kindor A durable binder of blue imitation leather stamped in gold with the name of the Magazine. Into which twelve single copies of The Relief Society Magazine may be inserted or removed at will. A great convenience to all stake and ward Relief Society officers, class leaders, and to all Magazine subscribers who like to keep a current year's issue of the Magazine together. Price $1.20 postpaid. ADDITIONAL SONGS Still available are the additional songs issued in 1941 for insertion in the Song Book at 15 cents for the set of three?'In Thy Form,'' "A Song of Triumph."' and "'O Father, Keep Us We Pray." All articles listed above are obtainable only from General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. NO LONGER AVAILABLE The supply of Relief Society centennial plates and of Relief Society Song Books is entirely exhausted, and the General Board is not at present planning to restock them. OUR LEGACY?Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse?out of print. X =e ?? = = Page 288 SINCE 1863... AT YOUR BOOKSTORE You can trust the National trademark... For more than three quarters of a century it has been found on fine Bibles. There is one to fill your every need. KING JAMES VERSION M-U's:'I-C SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY I LOVE A LITTLE COTTAGE (OvMGnea)) =e ee FLAG WITHOUT A STAIN (White) BLESS THIS HOUSE __...............15 GOD IS LOVE (Shelley) - ALICE BLUE GOWN (Tierney) ?_. PEACE I LEAVE WITH YOU (Roberts) _... ? AG Above numbers in octavo. Less 10% discount plus postage. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 57 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 National b IBLES Books Every Director off Music Should Have at Hand Essentials of Conducting BY J. SPENCER CORNWALL Director of the Salt Lake Tabernacle Choir and former Supervisor of 50c Music in Salt Lake City Schools. Paper-bound TWENTY LESSONS IN CONDUCTING BY KARL WILSON GEHRKENS 60c By simple diagrams and clear text, these books show the proper method of obtaining best results from small or large groups of singers. Mail orders filled promptly. DESERET BOOK COMPANY "BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST" 44 East South Temple P. O. Box 958 Salt Lake City 10, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine U. S. POSTAGE 2c Paid SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH PERMIT No. 690 at (A) ere (| 2? Syren! Paa~or "Thono's No Place Like Home!" As worn as this phrase is, the sentiment it expresses will always be true. There is no substitute for a home with its children's laughter and a mother's love. Parents?make sure that your family will always enjoy the protection and security of a home. You can protect yourself and those dependent upon you from the uncertainty of tomorrow by investing in life insurance. BENEFICIAL LIFE HOME OFFICE??-BENEFICIAL LIFE BUILDING SALT Lake City 1. UTAH GEORGE ALBERT SMITH, PRESIDENT 