Guide Lessons LESSON I. Genealogy and Testimony (Required) First Week in February. TEXT: "History of the Church," Vol. II, page 380;  Vol. . page 13-16; 472; page 231;  Doc. and Cov. sec. 110: 124:26-48. AIM: All descendants of Adam living and dead, shall hear the Gospel Message. Salvation on the Other Side. Modern scripture, found in our Church works and in the sermons of our leaders, abound with explicit counsel and commandments concerning the doctrine of salvation for the dead. Like all truth, this principle in its application to our everyday needs and requirements has undergone a natural process of evolutionary growth. The principle itself, after being revealed to the prophet, was gradually built up until the entire structure was presented by him, in his later ministry to the people in its beauty and glory. The thought of hope beyond the grave, of regeneration and entrance into the kingdom of God by spirits who had once lived upon this earth and failed to reach that mark, was so stupendous that the prophet himself was carried away with the marvelous doctrine. Out of the forty-three billion people who, it is estimated, have lived upon this earth, barely three billion of them have ever heard the name of Jesus Christ, and of that three billion, only a handful, just subsequent to the crucifixion and since the restoration of the gospel in 1830 — these few alone have known and accepted the gospel in its fulness. What then should become of the nearly three billion so called unconverted Christians as well as the other forty billion who never heard His name. First came the vision of the prophet's brother at a meeting held in Kirtland Temple, January 21, 1836, just prior to its dedication. This vision will be found in volume II of the "History of the Church," page 380, and contains the following revelation: "All who have died without a knowledge of this 
 gospel who could have received it if they had been permitted to tarry, shall be heirs of the celestial kingdom of God;  also all that shall die henceforth vithout a knowledge of it, who would have received it with their hearts, shall be heirs of that kingdom, for I, the Lord, will judge all men according to their works, according to the desire of their hearts." Next and even more significant was the vision given to the prophet and Oliver Cowdery shortly after the dedication of the temple, found in section 110:13-16, in the Doctrine and Covenants. As there shown, Elijah, who has been expected by the Jews for three thousand years, and whose symbolic entrance is typified every Passover night, in all Jewish households, by opening the door to admit his coming as the forerunner of Messiah, came to the Prophet Joseph Smith at the Passover period, April 3, 1836, presenting to him the keys to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the children to their fathers, committing the keys of this dispensation into the hands of the great latter day prophet. The prophet's mind must have dwelt, at times, upon this glorious development, although mobbing’s and driving from Kirtland to Missouri and then to Nauvoo absorbed his every waking hour. In an epistle to the twelve, written October 19, 1840, shortly after arriving in Nauvoo, as found in volume IV of the "History of the Church," page 231, the prophet has this to say: "I presume the doctrine of 'baptism for the dead' has ere this reached your ears, and may have raised some inquiries in your minds respecting the same. "Without enlarging on the subject, you will undoubtedly see its consistency and reasonableness;  and it presents the gospel of Christ in probably a more enlarged scale than some have imagined it. But as that performance of this rite is more particularly confined to this place, it will be not necessary to enter into particulars, at the same time I always feel glad to give all the information in my power, but my space will not allow me to do it." Meanwhile his mind dwelt upon the erection of a temple in which could be given not only the ordinance of washing of feet, such as was attended to in the Kirtland temple, but the higher blessings which can only be given in a temple built for that purpose. On January 19, 1841, the prophet received a revelation concerning the building of a temple in Nauvoo (section 124 in the Doctrine and Covenants, verses 26 to 48), wherein the Lord says: "For a baptismal font there is not upon the earth that they, my Saints, may be baptized for those who are dead. For this ordinance belongeth to my house, and cannot be acceptable to me, only in the days of your poverty, wherein ye are not able to build a house unto me." Following this announcement the Saints went eagerly forward to do the baptizing for the dead. Not yet complete in form, however, men were baptized for women and women for male relations. Nor was there any record kept of those earliest baptisms. Pres. Emmeline B. Wells was thus baptized. Later developments proved the incompleteness of this labor, as we shall see in subsequent lessons. In an epistle, written December 13, 1841, in volume IV, page 472 of the "History of the Church," occurs the following: "The building of the Temple of the Lord in the city of Nauvoo, is occupying the first place in the exertions and prayers of many of the Saints at the present time, knowing as they do, that if this building is not completed speedily, we shall be rejected as a Church with our dead;  for the Lord our God hath spoken it." QUESTIONS. 1. What do you understand by the scriptures? 2. Who wrote scriptures in ancient times? 3. Who wrote them in modern times? 4. Describe the vision of the Prophet in which he saw his brother Alvin Smith. (Vol. II, page 380, "History of the Church.") 5. Who is Elijah? What is the custom of the Jews concerning Elijah? article on Jews.) (See April, 1919, No. of "R. S. Magazine," 6. What prophet promised that he should come to turn the. hearts of the children to the fathers? 7. Describe the vision of Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, as given in the Doctrine and Covenants, sec. 110. 8. What are the keys of this dispensation? 9. In what way will the hearts of the children be turned to the fathers, and the hearts of the fathers to the children? 10. What is the necessity of building a temple? 11. What is a temple? 12. Why should this people be rejected if they fail to look after their dead? 13. What does the Prophet say about the ancient Jews' acquaintance with the principle? 14. How, and under what circumstances were the first baptisms for the dead performed? See Jensen's "Church Chronology" and Vol. IV of "History of the Church," page 545. Read description of baptismal font on Nauvoo, found on page 454. 
 LESSON II. Work and Business (Required) Second Week in February. LESSON . Book of Mormon (Optional) THE LAND OF JOSEPH. Third Week in February. TEXT: Genesis 49:22-27;  12:7-8;  15:7-18;  26:3-4;  28:4;  Deut. 33:13-18;  Gensis 48:15-20;  48-4. Both the Book of Mormon and the Bible, King James' translation (as far as the latter book is translated correctly), are accepted by us as a people to be the word of God. Further, it is common teaching among us that the two records each testify to the divinity of the other. We take the Bible to mean just what it says and not what we would have it say or how we would have it say, and as the standard by which we may safely draw our conclusions when examining the testimony contained therein. There were definite and explicit Bible predictions uttered in the days of the Patriarchs, and of Moses and the Prophets, to the effect that this continent should be occupied, at some subsequent time by a people from the Orient;  designating who they should be and the object and reason for their coming. This people, the Bible clearly sets forth, are a line or remnant of Joseph of Egypt who should at some time change their inheritance from the land of Palestine to a country far removed from Canaan. The Bible is insistent and positive in its declaration that such a people did actually leave Palestine about 590 years before the birth of the Savior and during the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah, and that they would be under divine guidance. They should journey to a land which would exceed their present home in everything that should make a country desirable above all others. Decisive and to the point concerning the foregoing is that part of the text recorded in Genesis 49:22-27. Jacob (Israel), head of the twelve tribes, in his last blessing upon the twelve sons whose children were destined to play such an important part in the history of mankind, made clear the following facts in his blessing upon the head of Joseph: 1. That the posterity of Joseph, at some future period of time, would change their habitation. 2. That the country which would be their inheritance would be far greater in extent, and exceed in desirableness any country then known to them. 3. That the history of the branches (posterity) that "should run over the wall," should be greater by virtue of the promises, being greater than the history of Jacob's progenitors, Abraham and Isaac;  for, says Jacob, "the blessings of thy father have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors, unto the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills." (It is a curious fact that when George Washington opened the Bible to take his first oath of office, his hand rested exactly on this blessing of Joseph.) 4. The blessings of Jacob's progenitors, entitled Abraham and Isaac to the country east and south of the great sea (Mediterranean) from the river of Egypt to the great river, the river of Euphrates, including the entire land of Canaan. This fact is clearly established by the following references: Genesis 12:7-8;  26:3-4;  28:4;  and 48:4. 5. The possession of Joseph's posterity as forecasted by the prophetic blessing, were designated as a land far removed from the land occupied by Jacob's progenitors, even "unto the utmost bounds of the everlasting hills." In connection with the foregoing, listen to the words of Moses, the children Israel’s of great Israel lawgiver before and his man death, of recorded God as been blessed Deut. 33:13-18: "And of Joseph he said, Blessed of the Lord be his land, for the precious things of heaven, for the dew, and for the deep. that coucheth beneath, and for the precious fruits brought forth by the sun, and for the precious things put forth by the moon, and for the chief things of the ancient mountains, and for the precious things of the everlasting hills, and for the precious things of the earth and fulness thereof, and for the good will of him that dwelt in the bush;  let the blessing come upon the head of Joseph, upon the head of him that was separated from his brethren. His glory is like the firstling of his bullock, and his horns are like the horns of unicorns;  with them he shall push the people together to the ends of the earth;  and they are the ten thousands of Ephraim, and they are the thousands of Manasseh." Associating the foregoing with Genesis 48:15-20, wherein promises made in a blessing upon Ephraim and Manasseh who were the sons of Joseph (but adopted by Jacob and given their places as leaders among the twelve tribes), the character and 
 location of Joseph's land is made more definite. The land is to be situated "in the midst of the earth." Bearing in mind that the patriarch who pronounced the blessing, stood in the land bordering on the Mediterranean sea, we can safely conclude that "in the midst of the earth" could not reasonably locate the promised country on the eastern continent. Another significant fact in the blessing is that wherever the land should prove to be, a "multitude of nations" will be found, and will be the descendants of Joseph of Egypt. There is no disagreement among the foremost students of prehistoric America that the American continent, with its many tribes of Indians, is also properly called a land inhabited by a "multitude of nations." ASSIGNMENT LESSON II. Text: Same as contained in the lesson. Subject: The Land of Joseph. Aim or Central Truth: Through his prophets God gives us glimpses of his unfolding purposes, and our faith is enriched to the extent that we seek to know them adequately. L Analyzing the text as contained in Deut. 33:13-18, what characteristics must attach to Joseph's land? 2. If the land, as Moses sees it, must be a land of great diversities of soil, climate and temperature, what would your inference be as to its size and location? 3. Aside from the American continent, has there ever been a land from the time the prophetic blessing was uttered until the present time, which has been particularly blessed "for the good will of him that dwelt in the bush?" Be able to support your conclusions by clear and distinct statements. 4. Somewhere in the text you will find evidence that Ephraim and Manasseh were practically adopted by Jacob and given equal place among the tribes. Be able to give this evidence. Literature (Optional) Alfred Tennyson and the Abolition of
War. Perhaps more than any other English poet Alfred Tennyson has looked forward to a time when war shall be no more. In the presentation of this lesson we shall first ask that you note the beautiful poem, "Morte d'Arthur," a poem having a French name, which translated means, "The Death of Arthur." The legend in relation to King Arthur is that he left the