Oh TheWatchJower© James H. Anderson. Eastern Europe is yet without peace, and the rest of the world cannot boast of an excess of the -desirable article, industrial oi otherwise. • Capt. Ross Smith, an Australian aviator, reached Australia on December 10, on an 11,500-mile airplane trip on which he left England November 12. Food statisticians in Great Britain, analyzing world conditions, announce that a great scarcity of food is due for 1920 and 1921. They have good basis for \heir conclusions. Indians in the United States have increased more than 50,000 in numbers during the past four years. Is the significance ofthis trend on the part of the "remnant of Jacob" apparent to our Society? Over 68,000 girls ran away from home in the United States during 1919. Is the fault with the home, or with the school, or society outside of home life? Emma Goldmann, a Russian by birth but naturalized in America, who has been preaching anarchism in this country for more than thirty years, was deported to Russia on December 21. Emmeline Pankhurst, noted English suffragette, was in Salt Lake City on December 6, and recorded a protest against industrial strikes. She says women have as many rights as men, and inquires what would happen if housewives went on strike for an eight-hour day. Many others than women are in sympathy with Mrs. Pankhurst's views on that question. WATCH TOWER 99 The "right to strike" in this country has grown into an alleged right to prevent other people from working, as exemplified by labor strikes in Utah and elsewhere during the closing months' of 1919. Fashion journals in the United States announce that society women are having butterflies or mice painted on their arms, backs, breasts, knees and thighs. Comment is offensive. Earthquakes occurred during the month of December in Alaska, Hawaii, Mexico and California. During the same period the weather was exceptionally severe all along the Pacific coast of North America. United States courts made an order on November 8 for the great coal strike to cease, but the order was not obeyed. The strike ended on December 15, after President Wilson assented to naming a commission to fix wages. Georges Carpentier, the champion French pugilist, who is a single man, was being urged, in December, by certain eugenists, to get married, for obvious reasons. Some people forget that brute power is not the prime requisite for parenthood. Jews still are being killed off in large numbers in Russia. With these massacres going on, Palestine soon may be large enough to accommodate all of the house of Judah that remain in Europe. Ireland is yet seething with rebellion. On December 18, an effort was made to assassinate the lord lieutenant. Lord French, who commanded the British armies in France and Belgium during the early years of the war. Cardinal Amette, Catholic archbishop of Paris, forbids women who are immodestly dressed entering the churches under his control. Possibly he figures that under the "rule of contrary" the women will dress decently to get into the forbidden precincts, and thus improve church attendance. Indians of different tribes and classes were the first settlers of New York State, is the announcement of State Archeologist Arthur Parker of New York, based on the A. H. Dewey archeological collection in the State museum there. His classification of time accords with the Book of Mormon distinctions in their order — Jaredites, Nephites, and the later Lamanites, but he does not use the same names. 100 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Italy gets Fiume after all, and even more than she asked at first, notwithstanding the opposition of the American delegates at the Paris peace conference which has caused so much trouble. Paris, France, is described by reputable authorities as being "the loveliest, wickedest, crudest place in the world for young girls visiting there." And this is "bleeding France," for which country much sympathy has been expended. Gen. Felipe Angeles, a fullblood Indian of learning and ability, was executed in Mexico on November 26, for opposing the Carranza government. A few days later, Francisco Villa executed nearly 600 Carranza soldiers as an act of vengeance. Miss Anne Scott, aged 35, of New York, has been elected president of the Bantam Ball Bearing company, a million dollar corporation. She says that she is now "too busy for matrimony"— and too rich for other than a money-lover. Miss Florence King, president of the American National Women's Association of Commerce, and a lawyer, says that in the present age "women must lead men." Mrs. Stuyvesant Fish, New York society matron, cynically inquires, "Where to?" ' Decency in dancing is being urged up
on the young people by the Church social advisory board. Where is the responsibility for deficiency in training that requires this admittedly needed advice? Can the fathers and mothers say? Victor Berger, socialist, convicted of syndicalism, and expelled from Congress therefor, was re-elected to Congress from Wisconsin on December 19. Such straws of public sentiment indicate coming trouble in the United States Central West. "The end of the world" named in Scripture often is interpreted as meaning the destruction of the earth — hence many fake predictions;  may not the true application of the term be the destruction of the wicked as a necessary prelude to a reign of righteousness? A German savant who is familiar with conditions in Europe figures that within a few years Russia, under Bolshevist doctrines, will be the most powerful force in Europe and will even menace America. His forecast is not without good foundation, in the present trend of society. MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN President Emmeline B. Wells* Birthday. President Wells is the most remarkable woman on the earth today, not only because of her advanced age — she is 92 years old on the last or Leap Year Day of this month of February; she is remarkable, not only because of her long and eminently useful life;  not only because she has done many things and has travelled in many lands;  not only because she has known and taken part in all the great and glorious movements in the Church which promoted the advancement of w-omen — all these things she has done and many more, but chief of all wonderful things which today mark her career is the fact that she represents in her position the greatest and earliest organization of women in modern times. And, moreover, she herself in large and generous measure truly represents the very spirit and genius of that great work. This is her first actual birthday in four years, and few there were who thought four years ago that she would live to see this day. She has lived to see it. Her will is still as strong, her spirit is as indomitable, and her testimony is still as unflinching as it was eight and eighty years ago. This Society, each and every member thereof, officers, both of wards, stakes, and of the General Board, join in loving congratulations and in continued loyal prayers for her peace, her health and her happiness here and hereafter. Mexican Feminist Council. Recent efforts by so-called U. S. philanthropists to establish charitable propaganda by the expenditure of millions was thwarted by the Mexican Woman's Council who protests that the scheme was designed to bring about ultimate inter- 102. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE vention in Mexican affairs. These Mexican women declare that Mexico is amply able to settle its own problems and invite other people to attend to their own affairs, and let Mexicans have the same inalienable privilege. Vanity Boxes in Egypt. It is now proven by scientists and explorers that ancient Egypt invented vanity boxes for women of that fashionable and corrupt country, over five thousand years ago, while the Africans in those dim ages as well as ever since have carried lip sticks and color aids to their ebony complexions that modern girls do. Empress Eugenie Visits Paris. One of the most pathetic sights of the past month was the figure of the aged ex-Queen Eugenie who travelled from her asylum in England to Paris peering with her dim eyes at the scenes of her former glory and power. It looks today as if all the other crowned heads will soon be in the same rather pitiful class. And the irony of it! English Women Magistrates. A tremendous step in advance has been made in England for suffrage by the admission of women magistrates through the sex-disqualification act. December 23, the Lord Chancellor appointed the following women to act in that capacity, when required: The Marchioness of Crewe, the Marchioness of Londonderry, Mrs. David Lloyd George, Mrs. Humphrey Ward, Mrs. Sidney Webb, Miss Elizabeth Haldane and Miss committee Tuckwell. Gertrude They Lord to advise the are Chancellor to constitute as fitness woman's of women for the office of magistrate when vacancies occur. He adds that women are especially qualified for work in children's courts, several of which have been established in large English cities. They do things well over there in England when they start. Check Your Baby. New York has set a new pace. She has risen to the sex situation in department stores and especially in the movies. Mothers of half-grown children can go a-shopping and to movies without too much trouble, for children can be left at home or on the street while mother is so engaged. But baby — only the most callous mother in the world would leave baby alone or with only irresponsible children to look after the helpless little thing. And New York has myriads of mothers of young babies — in the tenement districts, however — and these ROUND TABLE 103 mothers constitute a very large proportion of patrons at department stores and movies up in Harlem and on the west side. So enterprising storekeepers and movie directors have established rooms where qualified caretakers, nurses, and doctors also in attendance — care for the baby for fifteen cents an afternoon. Can you imagine it? Columbia University. Has just offered a special short course to train directors of recreation, in co-operation with the National League of Women Workers. One wonders if we will need trainers by and-by to teach us how to wink the eyes. Woman Stage Manager. The first woman stage manager, who is Mrs. Lillian Trimble Bradley, has made good in New York. Women Census Takers. Portland will have 237 women and 42 men census takers this winter. Miss Mary Garret Hay. A long time suffrage worker has been chosen by the Republicans of New York state as a delegate for the National Convention of 1920, the other two delegates being United States Senators. Women in Los Angeles. Were denied a place on a jury in December. We still have some battles to fight. But just why some women should want to serve on juries is a mystery to other women. We do claim, however, the right to do that or anything else, or not to do that or anything else. When women get the full right of choosing what they will do and what they will leave undone, then they will quietly swing back into their rightful place and the world will move on in its usual circles. Kamas Relief Society Women. A recent tribute in the "Deseret News" to the fine work done by the Kamas Relief Society women refers to the cleanup campaign instituted there by these women who began by painting up their own fine hall, cleaning the lot on which it stood, repairing the fence and grading and gravelling the sidewalk. We suggest that here is a wide field for our sisters to enter in the stimulation of clean-up campaigns in the districts where they live. What has been one can be done again. 
 NOTES FROM THE FIELD. Eastern States Mission. Miss Marie J. Haselman has just returned from the Eastern States where she has performed a splendid mission for the L. D. S. Church, and where she, in addition, presided over the Relief Societies of the mission. She reports the various branches in good condition, and greatly interested in all phases of the Relief Society work. Miss Haselman had the pleasure of visiting all of the thirteen branches where she gave detailed information and instruction. Miss Haselman's work was greatly appreciated by President George F. McCune, of the Eastern States mission, and by the General Board of Relief Societies. Hawaiian Mission. A Relief Society was recently organized at Kokoike, Kohala, by Elder Joseph D. Daynes, and the members of this branch have presented a beautiful mat to the Honolulu Mission Home. Mrs. Naomi C. Bliss, an L. D. S. graduate nurse, who is laboring in Honolulu with her husband, is assisting very greatly in the Relief Society work. California Mission. A Relief Society has been organized at Sacramento, and much enthusiasm is shown by the members of this branch, who greatly enjoy the opportunity of meeting together in a common cause. During the summer vacation members of the Long Beach Relief Society, under the direction of the president, Christina Larsen and counselors, assisted by Mrs. Louisa W. Jones, president of the Relief Societies of the California mission, were busily engaged in sewing articles for a bazaar, the proceeds of which were to be donated toward the building fund of the new L. D. S. chapel in Long Beach. Weekly sewing meetings were held and were the means of bringing out many of the younger women who had heretofore not been affiliated with the Relief Society, and who became very enthusiastic in the plan. A program was given in connection with the bazaar which was very greatly enjoyed. $200 was realized from the sale of quilts, aprons, rugs and various articles and from the sale of refreshments. In addition to the splendid results financially the occasion was greatly enjoyed from a social point of view. ,