We are almost appalled at the importance of early religious character building, the foundation of which is belief in God; and to neglect it is to assume a fearful responsibility.

Project Four.

The Work for the Dead.. In this project men and women come close to the line of redemption chains and tying knots of love.

If all the dead one works for should reject the work done for them, still would the worker be richly paid; because trying to save is as heroic as saving.

A dollar sent to the temple is like one spent to keep a boy on a mission; it goes in the service of salvation.

If our eyes were adjusted to spiritual waves, what signals for help might we see over there; and if our ears were spiritually attuned, what songs of gladsome gratitude might we hear for what we do for them who cannot help themselves.

Questions and Problems 1. Distinguish between a purpose and a project. 2. Name the projects set forth in this lesson. 3. What is our duty concerning the book that was the product of the first great project of the dispensation? 4. Name the workers in the project (a) mortal; (b) immortal. 5. To what point was the organization of the Church completed on the sixth of April, 1830? 6. Name the six charter members of the Church. 7. Give evidence that the organization of the priesthood of the Church was years in being completed. (See Essentials in Church History, by Joseph Fielding Smith, p. 84.) 8. Make as complete a list as you can of the names of beings who have taken part in the projects of this dispensation and state the special mission of as many as you can. (See D. & C. 13, heading; 128:20-21. 110:3, 11-13.) 9. What evidence have we that many angels other than those of record have taken part in the project of this dispensation? (D. & C. 128:21.) 10. Who was Raphael? (See Commentary Doctrine and Covenants, pp. 998, 999.) We 11. What are the beliefs and the conduct that make up Latter-day Saint Christian Character? (Articles of Faith, 1 and 13.) 12. What fearful responsibility is assumed by neglecting to teach and train children? (See D.& C. 68:25, 28.) 13. What great Project of the dispensation points to the necessity of a skilled genealogist in every family? - 14. Discuss: Our salvation depends on our interest in the salvation of the dead. (See D. & C. 128:15.) 15. Discuss "What is Life Without a Project?"