[Vol15 | April 1928 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial—The First Editor's Birthday]

The First Editor's Birthday
A prim little woman with keen eyes and a smile that lights up her countenance sometimes frequents our office. On the eighth day of April, 1928, she will be seventy-nine years of age. Should you meet her casually you would not suspect such a thing for there are still dark hairs among the gray and there is no sign of falter in her step. It is a long time since she did the editorial work on the Woman's Exponent in a room in the house of Lorenzo D. Young in the Eighteenth Ward, when Zina D. Young, Eliza R. Snow, Mary Isabelle Horne and Sarah M. Kimball gave her such staunch support. Lula Greene Richards was a mere girl then with dark curls and florid cheeks. Fate did not decree that she should long be the editor of the paper, for one day there happened into her office a young man by the name of Levi W. Richards who evidently fell in love with her. In any event, she was wedded to him on the sixteenth day of June, 1873, just one year and sixteen days after the first issue of the paper.
She tells us that among those who contributed in early days to the magazine were Lou Lee Dalton, a sister of Mrs. George Sutherland, and Mrs. Ellen Jakeman, Mary Cook, sister of Ida Cook, Mary J. Tanner, mother of J. M. Tanner, Eliza R. Snow who wrote a history of the Relief Society which was published in some of the early numbers.
Since Sister Richards' marriage her home has been in the Twentieth Ward in Salt Lake City. Her family consisted of three daughters and four sons. Mrs. Richards' experience is a contradiction to the maxim that boys are harder to rear than girls, for her four sons have grown to manhood while her three daughters died at very tender ages. It was in the days when she was rearing her little family that we first knew her; in the days when her mother-in-law, who lived near her, gained the admiration of all the young people because of her white silk bonnets and capes of crimson velvet and other colorful materials. She used to come to my mother's home sometimes. There was always a benign smile and soft, tender words, for Lula Greene Richards has always been an example of self-control. Lee, the little boy with the curly hair, is now a man of fifty and an artist of outstanding reputation. As Mrs. Richards rocks back and forth in her comfortable living room she has before her, always, a life like portrait of her husband painted by her gifted son. Her son Willard has his mother's gift, that of writing verse. Evan is a dentist and Heber a member of the English faculty of the University of Utah.
It is a matter of more than passing interest that this issue of the Magazine that contains the story of the placing of the bust of Emmeline B. Wells, in the hall of fame, at the Utah State
Capitol, should also contain the story of Mrs. Richards' seventyninth
birthday. These two women first met at a dinner given by
Mrs. Elizabeth Hyde. They were the only guests. JWhen Mrs.
Richards turned to the duties of her home life it was Emmeline
B. Wells who assumed the responsibility of editor. Long life is
a blessing extended by our Heavenly Father to both these
gifted women whose names must ever appear in the spotlight
whenever the periodicals of the Relief Society are discussed. We
congratulate our first editor on having reached her seventy-ninth
bitrhday, enjoying the vigor of mind and body which is hers.
We trust there are other joyous years ahead of her; and that she
may each day partake of a full measure of our Father's blessings.
The Memorial Theatre at Stratford-on-Avon
For a number of years American students and lovers of drama
have been reading a play by George Middleton called "Now-adays."
The plot of the play is concerned with a young woman who
has artistic ability and who enters a contest for a statue which is
to be placed in the city hall in her home town. The heroine wins first place because her sketch, all things considered, is the most
desirable.
In the selection of the plan for the new Shakespearean Memorial
Theatre at Stratford-on-Avon, we have the realization of
this story. Miss Elizabeth Scott, who is the "daughter of a
Bournemouth doctor," is only twenty-nine years of age. In accepting
her plan the committee seemed to feel that it incorporates
more desirable features than does any other plan submitted. In
fact, George Bernard Shaw, the dean of English playwrights,
stated that Miss Scott's was the only plan that had "theatre sense."
He meant that she had grasped the essentials of the interior of a
theatre as well as those of the exterior. 4
Women everywhere will feel 'proud of Miss Scott's achievement.
Women are lovers of the stage, and among outstanding
dramatic stars there are many women. Shakespeare's women
stand 'out conspicuously; the mere mention of them will bring to
mind those who have successfully played Shakespearean roles. The
names of Ellen Terry, Lady Tree, Laura Cowey, Julia Marlowe,
Genevieve Hamper, and Jane Cowl will suggest others who, in
England and the United States, have starred in Shakespearean
roles. It may suffice to say Miss Scott's achievement is exceedingly
pleasing to women, many of whom will look forward to
visiting the new Memorial Theatre at Stratford on its completion.
On the Stratford stage at the present time one may see the
best talent of London; since it is possible for the foremost English
players to put on a performance in Stratford in the afternoon
and return to London in the evening in time to fill an engagement
in the city theatres.

The Purchase of the Hill Cumorah

We hear a great deal at the present time about doing things at
the psychic moment. Certainly the Church is to be congratulated
on having selected the psychic moment for the purchase of the Hill
Cumorah. It is quite the custom to select the centenary of an
event in which to do some outstanding thing in commemoration
of the event; and to commemorate the centenary of the coming
forth of the Book of Mormon the Church elected to do the
one thing appropriate and satisfying above all others. Any other
act in connection with the event might have fallen short of imparting
the same satisfaction. As it is, a deep-seated desire of the
Latter-day Saints has been fulfilled. Thousands of them have
already visited the hill, and it is safe to say that the desire to visit
this place will increase. As interest deepens in the Book of Mormon,
so will the feeling for the sacredness of the place from which
the plates were taken. To the Latter-day Saint this place can
never be other than a hallowed spot.