"Little Pretty Pocket Book" By Florence Ivins Hyde
The material for this article has been gleaned from encyclopedias, histories, magazine articles and pamphlets by Miss Caun of the American Library Association
THE awarding of the first Newbery Prize in 1922 gave rise to a new interest not only in literature for children, but in John Newbery, himself. Students were led to search old bookshops and records here and in Europe for the story of the evolution of juvenile books, which proved to be as romantic and fascinating a story as any in literature. The beginning of the story for the purpose of teaching is lost in antiquity, but the development of juvenile books can be traced by several definite landmarks.
THE first implement for teaching children to read was known as the Horn Book. It was a leaf of paper about 3 in. in width by 5 in. in length, containing the alphabet, some letter combinations, and the Lord's Prayer, mounted on wood with a hole for a string which fastened it to the girdle. The paper was covered with a piece of transparent horn (to save it from being "spoiled by the wet and dirty fingers of the little ones") fastened to the wood by brass edging and small nails. This little Horn-Book is what the poet Cowper described as—
"Neatly secured from being soiled or torn, Beneath a pane of thin transparent horn, A book to please us at our tender age. 'Tis called a book (though but a single page), Presents the prayer our Saviour deigned to teach, Which children use, and parsons when they preach."
This Horn-Book was the type used by the common folk but for the aristocracy, the wooden backs were sometimes covered with stamped leather or silver, or made of bone, ivory, or other fine substitute. At the top of the page was a cross for at that time the children were all good Catholics and at the beginning of each lesson they were taught to cross themselves and say. "God speed me, A, B, C." Until the art of printing became perfected, these little Horn Books were made by using wood cuts for both the letters and illustrations. When the first English Primers were printed this original Horn Book formed the first page and so it became the germ from which all subsequent primers have developed. The Pilgrim fathers brought it to America with them. There is a record of one clergyman who had the crosses erased before he passed them out. Now, they are exceedingly rare, only three or four specimens being in this country. One sold in London in 1865 for $350.
From this the famous New England Primer developed. It is said that there never was printed a work in America without any claim to inspiration, whose influence in its day was so extended as that of this book, which for a century and a half was the first book in religion and morals, as well as in learning and in literature. It was called the "Little Bible of New England." It contained hymns, prayers, proverbs, etc. The following quotations are taken from the first page:
"Children obey your Parents in the Lord, for this is right." "God will have no time to save us, if we find no day to serve him." "Shall we have six days in seven and God not one?"
Children, probably, liked better to read such verses as these: "The dog will bite the thief at night," or "An idle fool is whipped at school." Children, perhaps, didn't enjoy so much hearing the teacher say, "Stand up and say your catechism," for if the child had been idle and had not learned it, he was likely to feel the whip about his legs or the pinchers on his ears; and he might even spend the rest of the day on the dunce stool. This primer was compiled by Ministers of the gospel for the children of Puritan parents as is indicated by this rhyme on the last page:
Thus end the days of woeful youth, Who won't obey nor mind the truth; Nor hearken to what preachers say, But do their parents disobey. They in their youth go down to hell, Unto eternal wrath to dwell Many don't live out half their days, For cleaving unto sinful ways."
THE next landmark was known as the Battledore, which was printed on cardboard and folded down the middle. These little books contained fables, stories, pictures, and reading lessons such as the following:
"I pray God to bless my Father and Mother, Brothers and Sisters, and all my Good Friends, and my Enemies. Amen."
"He that learns not his A, B, C, Forever will a Blockhead be, But he that learns his letters fair, Shall have a coach to take the Air."
They were sold at one penny each, plain, and two pence, colored.
THEN followed the little Chap Books, so called because they were sold from door to door by Chapmen or traveling Peddlers. They were first printed in the latter part of the eighteenth century, but many of the crude illustrations date from a hundred years before that time and the stories, themselves, are often still older. Many thousands of these little books were sold, for they were the only literature of the people, old and young, for many years. They, too, are very rare. As long ago as the time of Sir Walter Scott, he wrote, "These books, once sold at the low and easy price of a half-penny, are now worth their weight in gold." The finest collection in America is owned by Harvard College.
BEFORE this time, children's books had had education rather than entertainment for their main purpose. It remained for John Newbery to make use of the little Chap Books for entertainment. He is called the "Father of Children's Literature" because he was the first bookseller to make the business of children's books important. He was born in 1713 in a small village in England. While a boy he read all the books he could obtain, and, although he had little schooling, he became a very good English scholar. He was not satisfied with being a farmer as his father had been, but went to work as an apprentice to the editor of a newspaper, laying the foundation for his later work as a publisher. In his own bookshop in London, called the "Bible and Crown," John Newbery published a book under the intriguing title, "Little Pretty Pocket Book," which so far as it is known, was the first book ever published solely for children, and for which he became famous. On the frontispiece appeared the words, "Instruction With Delight," but written in Latin. This was a bold inscription for those times for no one before had dared to suggest that children's books should give them delight. Other books which have since become children's classics, such as Aesop's Fables, Pilgrim's Progress, Robinson Crusoe, and Gulliver's Travels, had been written much earlier, some at least two centuries before. They, however, were not written for children but, rather for adults. John Newbery was the only person of his day to establish a permanent shop for the publication of juvenile books, and the first publisher to issue them for the "enjoyment of children."
Not only was the subject matter of his books important to Newbery, but he was also particular about their form. Some of them were bound in plain calf, with an open back in green vellum and green paper. Many of them were strongly bound in gilt and flowered Dutch paper. This was rather thin with floral patterns in red, blue, green, and gold. All the coloring was, apparently, done by hand. The covers when new, looked very gay; but as they aged, they faded out, so that they gave the effect of old chintz; and later they turned to mahogany brown. The secret process by which this paper was made has long since been lost.
This typical newspaper advertisement indicates that Newbery understood well the art of advertising: "This day was published Nurse Trueloves New Year's Gift, or the book of books for children adorned with cuts, and designed as a present for the very little boy who would become a great man and ride upon a fine horse; and to every little girl who would become a great woman, and ride in a lord-mayor's gilt coach. Printed for the author, who has ordered these books to be given gratis to all little boys and girls, at the Bible and Sun in St. Paul's Churchyard, they paying for the binding, which is only twopence each book."
For the first time in history, through the effort of Newbery, writers of distinction became interested in children's things. Such men as Oliver Goldsmith and some of the finest artists of the time, wrote and compiled with Newbery, juvenile books. Very few of them remain. "Goody Two Shoes" is best known to us. It was written by Goldsmith about 1766, The original manuscript was placed in the Vatican at Rome. On the frontispiece the publisher has written, "for the benefit of those
Who from a state of rags and care, And having shoes but half a pair, Their fortune and their fame would fix. And gallop in a coach and six."
Another little book. "Mother Goose's Melody," was compiled by Oliver Goldsmith. The binding is in Gilt Pattern Dutch paper used to "gild the pill" of knowledge. On the front page is the following:
Mother Goose Melody; or Sonnets for the cradle. In Two Parts, Part I. Contains the most celebrated songs and lullabies of the Old British Nurses, calculated to amuse children and to excite them to sleep. Part II. Those of the sweet songster and Nurse of Wit and Humor, Master William Shakespeare. Embellished with cuts and Illustrated with Notes and Maxims, Historical, Philosophical, and Critical.
Some of the rhymes and maxims are coarse and free, like the humor of the time, but some are really funny, and some are wise as, "The surest way to gain our end is to moderate our desires." And some are very fine such as, "Hark, Hark, the Lark." This is the original collection of rhymes and jingles of Mother Goose from which all other editions have sprung.
"THE Old Woman and Her Pig" was the original "Toy Book," published by John Newbery. All these little books are charming in color as well as in design and it is sometimes questioned whether we realize as well as the publishers of old the value of simplicity in books for the young. The illustrations are done in colors of red, blue, green, yellow, with plenty of white spaces and not too much design.
THESE quaint little penny books. Are highly prized today. The Originals are owned by only the great and rich collectors. Mr. Charles Welch, an American publisher, has spent large sums of money duplicating these rare old books for the children of this country.
Helen Martin has written, "To the child of the eighteenth century, life was pictured as a harsh time. Into the midst of this dreary scene came John Newbery. Charming little books, all flowery and gilt. Created by some of the great of the day, were published and sold in the shop of this 'genial friend of all mankind.' On shelves close at hand, as though to complete the circle of childhood's pleasures, were shining new red balls, blue pincushions, gay green tops. Smiling, indulgent mothers were drawn into this colorful shop by pantaletted, organdie-gowned little girls, or sedate, black-dressed little boys, who sighed for 'Goody Two Shoes' or 'Tommy Trip.' When John Newbery died, he had participated in a literary revolution; he had encouraged the best authors of the day to write for children; he had attracted the parents into buying these gay little books for their children; he had introduced the children, themselves, to the joys of reading and the pleasant ownership of books."
THIS, then, was John Newbery's contribution to child welfare. 154 years after his death, as a means of encouraging the writing of more worthwhile books for children by authors of real ability, it was proposed by members of the American Library Association, that a medal be awarded each year for the best children's book published. It was fitting that the medal be called the "John Newbery Medal" in honor of, as they said, "the Bookseller who seems to have been the first to realize that children have reading interests of their own, and who sought to meet their needs by finding authors to write for them." The medal is done on bronze. On one side are a man with a book, and two children. On the other side, around the edge are the words, "John Newbery Medal. Awarded annually by the Children's section of the American Library Association. In the center is an open book with the inscription, "For the Most Distinguished Contribution to American Literature for Children." It was designed by a young American ex-service man, Rene Paul Chambellan.
Eleven Newbery awards have been made in the following order:
The Story of Mankind—Hendrick Van Loon.......1922 The Voyages of Dr. Doolittle—Hugh Lofting........1923 The Dark Frigate—Charles B. Hawes.............1924 Tales from Silver Lands—Charles J. Finger........1925 Shen of the Sea—Arthur Chrisman..............1926 Smoky—Will James........................1927 Gay Neck—Dhan Gopal Mukerji...............1928 The Trumpeter of Krakow—Eric P. Kelly..........1929 Hitty—Rachel Field.......................1930 The Cat Who Went to Heaven—Elizabeth Coatsworth....1931 Waterless Mountain—Laura Adams Armer..........1932 Young Fu of the Upper Yangtze—Elizabeth Foreman Lewis....1933
Mr. Coryell's criticism of one of them is true of all; that it "is worth reading because it widens the mental horizon and deepens the spiritual understanding of its readers by the glimpse that it gives of life as it really is in the far away or long ago. The boy or girl who reads the book lives for the time being in a different world with the satisfied feeling of having gone places and done things." Most of them can be read by children and adults with equal interest.
(To be Continued)