The Universal Mother
A DRAMATIZATION FOR USE IN A MOTHER'S DAY PROGRAM
By Mary Grant Judd
For the opening music a chorus of young girls' voices (off stage) sings "The Call of Womanhood," from Beehive girls Handbook.
INTRODUCTION
At eventide in philosophic mood, I pondered on that high calling of Motherhood. I seemed to see the universal Mother. In different phase and circumstance She came before my view And yet did ever represent The common lot of all— The gift of life, In which she plays a part: The toil she knows, The faith which she instills, The patience growing out of trial, And last of all the wisdom Coming with the years.
Vocal solo, "Cradle Song," by Kate Vannah. (Beesley Music Company, 61 South Main St., Salt Lake City—Price 50c.)
As the lullaby concludes the curtains part, discovering a young mother bending over a baby in a cradle. The music, softly played, continues while "The Young Mother" is read.
THE YOUNG MOTHER
She holds the torch of life aloft and carries on, Full well she knows the price it costs to keep the flame aglow. And if it smoulders, dies, her very breath she gives To fan it into life again. The link 'Twixt ages past and those which are to come. Her part of God's great plan was known before earth-life began. She is And should she falter, flinch or turn aside From path of thorns, redemption's plan Could not be consummate. She knows the price. Ah, yes! The price in pain, in fear, in sacrifice. But, too, she knows the recompense. Her great reward the clasp of chubby arms about her neck, The loving smile, the trusting hand in hers, The peace surpassing understanding in her heart, The sense of duty done that in her stirs.
Music, "Come, Come Ye Saints." played, or sung, softly off stage. The second tableau shows a woman in pioneer dress, one child in her arms, another tugging at her skirts. Covered wagon, etc., in background. ("The Pioneer Mother" is read without music.)
THE PIONEER MOTHER
Hail to Thee, brave wife! Amongst brave mothers How courageous Thou! Who took thy lonely trek Across the trackless plains. Left behind Those comforts dear to woman heart. Who stood beside thy mate, and faltered not. Who helped to plan, to build, to realize The dream that had been his. Our heritage We owe to thee and him. And ever thou shalt typify That courage which is part of mother hearts, That willingness to toil, to serve, With never thought of self, Of which all mother love is made.
Music appropriate for missionaries sung off stage. A male quartet humming "Let the Lower Lights be Burning," is good. Tableau shows mother on one side of the stage, son standing back of pulpit on extreme opposite side.
THE MISSIONARY MOTHER
How big are mother hearts! How all embracing mother love can be! Not only for her own is she concerned, But towards those others waiting, as in night, She yearns. And willingly her son as envoy sends, To guide them towards the light. Her missionary boy looks back to her, And seems to say as bard of old; "And she of whom you speak My mother, looks as whole as some serene Creation minted in the golden moods Of sovereign artists; not a thought. A touch, But pure as lines of green that streak the white Of the first snowdrop's inner leaves; One, not learned, save in gracious household ways, Not perfect, nay, but full of tender wants, No Angel, but a dearer being, all dipt In Angel instincts, breathing Paradise, Interpreter between the Gods and men." (From Tennyson's "Princess.")
Vocal Solo, "Resignation," by Caro Roma. (Beesley Music Co., 61 South Main St., Salt Lake City—Price 40c.) In fourth scene a sort of altar (may be draped steps) is placed backstage. The Gold Star Mother enters, carrying a sword and a formal wreath; she walks slowly and reverently to the altar and places the symbols upon it.
THE GOLD STAR MOTHER
When on her country's altar, the gold-star mother laid Her precious sacrifice, then motherhood was sanctified With chastening sorrow's load. As one of old who gave a son Her anguished heart cried out: "How hard to travel Calvary's road; Yet depth of soul results, and understanding heart While resignation bows her head in prayer: "The Lord hath given; The Lord doth take away: But blessed be his name."
Fifth tableau shows Grandmother seated in arm chair, with sewing, etc.
THE GRAND-MOTHER
And her we call Grand-mother! How fitting is that name. Serene and wise she looks on life. Nor let's its petty cares Affect her calm, untroubled soul. A glad philosophy is hers; Long, long ago she learned that all comes right at last. Her sons and daughters go to her. She helps them bear their trials, For well she knows that life in any age is largely Repetition of the past. The children too are drawn to her, In that dear presence bask, as flowers in the sun. She guides, directs, advises, and blesses every one.
In the concluding picture each mother re-enters as the reader mentions her, and walks to the Grandmother, who has remained seated. The five mothers thus grouped form the final picture. The reader turns from the mothers directly to her audience on the final verse.
FINALE
With grave responsibility is fraught, the mother's task, So to a higher source she looks for aid. And may the one who sees the sparrows fall, Be not unmindful of her need. For her we pray the vigor of the youthful mother, And too, the courage of the pioneer, The resignation symbolized by golden star, The faith of missionary mother, and the zeal. And for us all, we ask the help to be What they would have us be—real sisters, brothers— And thus to pay, if only in a part, The debt we owe to them. Our angel mothers.