For Young Mothers By Holly Baxter Keddington
FOR nearly a year now our home has been made more cheerful by the beautiful singing of a canary that was given to me on Mother's Day by my husband and sons. It was such a delightful gift and the pleasure "Richard's" song has brought to us is unmeasured. Many people don't like pets, but in a home where there are children, some sort of a pet is a necessity. Every child needs the responsibility of the care of a pet, besides the companionship some pets afford. I am sure many homes have had spells of pet fever, as we have. From canaries and dogs through the list of rabbits, kittens, fish, turtles, pigeons, and maybe white rats. We mothers are really the caretakers of most pets or I'm sure there would be more casualties than there are. Maybe through your kindness to these pets good fortune will smile on you, as she smiled on me once. Sometimes I think Dame Fortune shouted aloud, as well as smiled, for this is what happened: I was detained in town longer than I expected to be and as I got off the car, an impulsive, weeping son met me and cried out, "You would be late the time I had a chance to buy a white rat for a dime. Now it's too late." Well, my sorrow at his misfortune was only surmounted by my own joy. So it goes.
A YEAR or so ago a very splendid woman died in the east. She was deeply mourned for her kindness, her charities, philanthropies of many descriptions, yet she claimed her life was a failure because she had never been privileged to be a mother. All the splendid women in the world are not mothers. Millions of mother-like women have spent or are devoting their lives to the growth and care of some one else's child. Probably you know of just such a person. If you do, is there some way you can show appreciation? Can you imagine the emptiness of a Mother's Day to them? So to the Mothers of one to many children and to those also who are mothers at heart, may I extend this wish? That this and all other days of yours be filled with the comfort, contentment and joy that you so rightly deserve.
God thought to give the sweetest thing In His almighty power To earth; and deeply pondering What it should be—one hour In fondest joy and love of heart Outweighing every other. He moved the gates of heaven apart And gave to earth—a Mother. —Lovejoy