Since Mother Went Away By Coral J. Black
I've learned a lesson bitter—sweet— That Life is only made complete By burdens, difficult to meet, And bear from day to day;
I've learned to look with broader view To leave the false, and seek the true, Humbly my destined way pursue Since Mother went away.
The world's still beautiful to me— The lilac plumes, the cherry tree, The mating birds, the pilfering bee. She loved them so alway.
I gaze into the tranquil skies— The star-strewn path to Paradise. And see Life in a Holier guise, Since Mother went away.
I've learned to look, with kinder eye, On all the crowds that pass me by. For each must suffer, just as I Upon some fateful day,
But somehow, Heaven seems more near. I've more of faith and less of fear Pervading Peace has come to cheer. Since Mother went away.
A sad sweet something fills the place— A memory of her dear face, Filled with the calm of Heaven's grace To be our guide and stay:
Oh help me, Lord, that I may be All that my mother wished for me— My faith and love abide in Thee Since Mother went away.
The Cost of War
From the Annual Report for 1933 of the Division of Intercourse and Education, by Nicholas Murray Butler, Director
If it be even partially true that the economic motive is dominant in the mind of most human beings, then there is no more important task before the world's intelligence and the world's scholarship than to make it clear to the public opinion of the people of every nation which hopes to be deemed civilized, how directly the loss, the suffering and the distress which they are now compelled to endure are the effect and the result of the World War. The colossal destruction wrought by that stupendous contest was dramatically set forth in the following statement published in the Congressional Record of January 13, 1928, page 1446.
According to the best statistics obtainable the World War cost 30,000,000 lives and $400,000.000,000 in property. In order to give some idea of what this means just let me illustrate it in the following: With that amount we could have built a $2,500 house and furnished this house with $1,000 worth of furniture, and placed it on 5 acres of land worth $100 an acre and given all this to each and every family in the United States, Canada, Australia, England, Wales, Ireland, Scotland, France, Belgium, Germany and Russia. After doing this there would have been enough money left to give each city of 20,000 inhabitants and over in all the countries named a $5,000,000 library and a $10,000,000 university. And then out of the balance we could have still sufficient money to set aside a sum at 5 per cent interest which would pay for all times to come a $1,000 yearly salary each for an army of 125,000 teachers, and in addition to this pay the same salary to each of an army of 125,000 nurses. And after having done all this, we could still have enough left out of our four hundred billions to buy up all of France and Belgium, and everything of value that France and Belgium possess; that is, every French and Belgian farm, home, factory, church, railroad, street car—in fact, everything of value in those two countries in 1914. For it must be remembered that the total valuation of France in 1914, according to the French official figures, was $62,000,000,000. The total of Belgium, according to Belgian official figures, was in the neighborhood of $12,000,000,000. This means a total valuation of the two countries in 1914 of less than $75,000,000,000. In other words, the price which the leaders and statesmen of the Entente, including the statesmen of the United States, made the people of the world pay for the victory over Germany, was equal to the value of five countries like France plus five countries like Belgium. These figures are of well-nigh astronomic proportions. Even they, however, do not tell the whole story. No account is taken of the stupendous additions to these losses which have been and are the result of the economic international war which is raging today with great violence. Unless the world's leadership and the world's statesmanship can bring that economic war to a quick end, it must result and can only result in happenings which would in effect constitute both national and international economic suicide. Had the march of progress toward a brighter and a happier day not been first slowed down and then halted some six or seven years ago, mankind would certainly have been spared a large part of the suffering which it is now called upon to endure. If the world is to return, and without delay, to the path of progress, it must be given leadership which is not only national but international. It must find minds and voices which can see the whole world and its problems and not merely those of one neighborhood, since important problems which are pure