Vol. XXI MAY, 1934 No. 5
EDITORIAL
New Government Relief Plan
THE C. W. A. has been superseded by a new form of work and direct relief. The new plan of the Federal Emergency Relief Administration is divided into three programs. First, direct relief. This will give relief to all who are unable to work and who are in need. Second, work relief. This division is for the city unemployed. The plan is to limit the work of the jobless strictly to their subsistence needs. Case workers will establish budgets of necessities, determine whether any member of the family is working, or can work, or whether it possesses any available resources. Employment will be given for not less than 54 hours a month, nor more than 24 hours a week at the current wages of the locality. The Government will plan "work programs which could not normally be undertaken by public bodies but which are at the same time outside of the field of private industry." Work projects may be carried out in: Parks, recreation grounds, reforestation, water works, sewer systems, streets, municipal power plants, airports, traffic campaigns, musical and dramatical activities, scientific and social research, public buildings, weed eradication, repairing or tearing down houses, cooperative associations, self-help associations, public health programs. Nursing, adult education. Third, relief for rural districts. Here the effort will be to rehabilitate needy families. Cows, pigs and chickens will be bought for them and land provided together with work on projects to pay back as far as possible the capital advanced. No family will be given aid that does not plant and properly care for an adequate garden when the facilities are available.
The needs of "stranded populations," i. e., those living in single industry communities where there is no hope of future re-employment, such as miners in worked-out fields, will be carefully looked after.
It is to be hoped that this new plan of the President's will help very materially in solving some of the pressing needs of the people.
Mother's Day
MOTHER'S DAY, this year, we are glad to note is to be observed by women's clubs, men's clubs, medical societies, chambers of commerce and other professional and civic groups all joining in community efforts to make Motherhood safe for Mothers. The Maternity Center Association, a voluntary organization supported by private contributions, has for its object the teaching of the vital need of adequate maternity care and helping to bring such care to all expectant mothers. The need for such work is evidenced by the fact that though tuberculosis, typhoid fever, diphtheria, and many other enemies of humanity have been brought largely under control, yet mothers still die in childbirth at a rate as high as they did twenty-five years ago. Mrs. Krech, the President, states that an important step forward is to be taken this year. "In three previous Mother's Day Campaigns, the effort was to arouse the public to the importance of the fact that two-thirds of the maternity deaths are preventable; that 10,000 of the 16,000 women who annually die in childbirth could be saved. The next move, which is to be taken this year, is to do something quite specific and definite about it, with groups working in every community." Specific changes cannot be made to improve conditions until people study their own local maternity facilities, and determine just what is needed, as phases requiring attention may differ widely in various communities. The Center will furnish blank appraisal forms free by the use of which any group of persons may conduct an investigation into the adequacy of what their own town or county is doing for mothers. Among the questions to be answered are these: Number of maternity beds? Total number of births in the last year? Number of deaths in the last year? Is organized prenatal nursing service provided? Is your hospital approved by the American College of Surgeons? "Mother's Day in the past," says Mrs. Krech, "has been surrounded with a great deal of sentiment. In the last few years there has been a successful effort to direct this fine feeling toward the important subject of saving mothers from unnecessary death. But emotion alone is not enough. We must have facts, pertinent facts, local facts, so that groups in every community may work with their own physicians, health officers, nursing associations and hospital authorities to alter those factors in the situation which are a barrier to safe motherhood.
"Only by an appraisal of maternity facilities in every community, and study of their quality, can the great step forward be taken. Prizes are to be awarded those groups which have the highest rating for making a thorough-going survey and presenting a plan for improvement based upon that survey. Programs for club meetings are also available without charge, as well as publicity material for local Mother's Day Campaigns designed to direct sentiments surrounding this occasion into channels that will be productive of results in terms of human lives saved."