[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		ALBERTA STAKE.
	A special conference of the Alberta Stake
Relief Society convened in the Cardston As-
sembly hall, Sisters Ida S. Dusenberry and
Amy Lyman of the General Board, Salt
Lake City, being present.
	Stake President Mary J. Hinman pre-
sided. After the usual opening exercises,
Counselor Rhoda C. Hinman welcomed all
who had met together, felt the Lord was
mindful of us as a people. Felt pleased with
the presence of the sisters from Salt Lake.
Sister Amy Lyman addressed the meeting.
Had been much interested in listening to the
minutes of the previous conference, and also
with the lecture given on Amusements for
Our Growing Boys and Girls. Gave an in-
teresting talk on the same subject. Repeated
a saying of Mrs. Stetson, a noted American
lady, who once said that women must have
something to do to take up their time and
energies or they would be apt to gossip.
She had taken up Relief Society work re-
cently and felt it the most beautiful in all the
world. Said the good to be gained from
this work is not all in doing good to others,
but it is a great benefit to the individual.
She had seen and appreciated our outlines,
felt that current events would be a good
subject to add to our program, it will keep
us in touch with the news of the world.
	Sister Sarah Easthope of Mt. View, aged
seventy-five years, very beautifully sang a
solo entitled, “The Daughters of Zion.”
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry of the Gen-
eral Society addressed the meeting. Said
she had enjoyed very much listening to
the song of our aged lady. Spoke of her
kindergarten work and of the enjoyment
she has in that work. Referred to the in-
fluence mothers and teachers have on the
minds of their children. Parents must listen
to the childish talk of their little ones, and
sympathize with their confidences, if they
would claim the same privilege later in their
lives. Told the story of the temptation and
the gradual downfall of a most beautiful
young girl, whom she had recently seen in
death. Warned fathers and mothers against

[Column 2]
allowing their boys and girls to go away
from home without a proper person to
accompany them. Keep them from tempta-
tion, and you will never be obliged to draw
them back; children’s lives are affected more
by the influence of parents than by what is
said to them. Example goes much farther
than words. Spoke of a number of interest-
ing things she had seen and heard in the
Juvenile court in Ogden; and of the soul
hunger of boys and girls for love and sym-
pathy; felt thankful for the struggles of this
life, as well as the blessings. Told the story
of the woman with the cross. Said to each
one of us is given an individuality that no
other can assume. It is God-given and
given to each of us to enable us to perform
our mission in life.
	Miss Ida Archibald rendered a solo enti-
tled “Love divine.”
	President Edward J. Wood spoke very
highly of those of the sisters who have trav-
eled so far from their ranches and towns to
attend this special conference, after having
attended their regular conference but a few
days ago, and mentioned our beloved Sister
Rhoda Hinman having been baptized by the
Prophet Joseph Smith. “A good Relief So-
ciety is a great support to the bishopric of
any town, or ward. May we never tire in
having a constant watch-care over our chil-
dren. Let us live a part of their lives for
the future of this work depends upon the
kind of boys and girls we have today. Sister
Millie Matkin gave a recitation entitled,
“The Martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph
Smith and his Brother Hyrum.”
	President Mary J. Hinman felt to thank
the brethren and sisters for their presence
today appreciated very much the presence of
our visiting sisters from headquarters, who
have given us what we needed.
	Sister Nellie Pitcher felt the spirit of
blessing resting upon her and proceeded to
bless the sisters and congregation through
the gift of tongues. The interpretation was
given by Missionary Elizabeth Hammer.
	Closed by singing, “Do what is right.”
Benediction by Elder J. A. Hammer.
		JANE W. BATES, Secretary.


