HOW THE VOTE WAS WON.
	STATE OF WASHINGTON.
	Miss Adella M. Parker writes from Seat-
tle, Nov. 9, to the Woman’s Journal, Bos-
ton.
	“It was a great victory.
	“The women at the polls were wonder-
fully effective. Many young women, many
middle-aged women and white-haired grand-
mothers, too, stood for hours handing out
the little reminders. One was a girl of 13,
and one a grandmother in a wheeled chair,
the mother of a former councilman.
	“It rained our gentle, but very insistent
kind of rain; and the men were so solicitous!
They kept dragging us off to get our feet
warm, or trying to, or bringing us chairs to
sit in, or offering to hand out our ballots
while we took a rest.
	“One woman would not go into the poll-
ing place as invited, because it was against
the law, but persisted, in spite of all the ap-
peals of the men, in standing in the rain till
she was soaked; and that precinct went five
to one for suffrage.
	“Another young woman had a piece of
carpet fetched for her by a voter for her to
stand on. The men were everything to be
desired, real Westerners, shall I say? and
they voted for us two to one, all over the
State.
	“Women would not leave their places un-
til relieved, even for lunch, for fear of ’los-
ing a vote.’ The whole thing appealed to
the men irresistibly. It was the first really
tangible evidence they had had of the strong
desire to vote on the part of the women,—
an ocular demonstration—and it told in the
count.
	“Everybody seems positively happy. No
women but are glad. Even those few who
have coquetted with anti-suffrage ideas are
now inquiring if they may vote for presi-
dent, and the men are all smiling blandly, as
if they had all voted the same way.
	“The newspapers stood by us nobly. The
press of the whole State has helped us; and
I shall always feel personally grateful to
Mrs. Catt and Alice Stone Blackwell for
their generous gifts of money, and to Mar-
tha Gruening and Mrs. Minnie J. Reynolds
for their invaluable personal aid, and to the
dear Woman’s Journal for the great work it
has done helping to educate the press of the
State. Those Journals have been precious,
every one of them, and they have helped out
our ‘propaganda by literature’ wonderfully.

[Column 2]
	“We have won in a clean, educational
campaign, and the men feel as happy about
it as we do, realizing that they have done a
just and gracious thing, and that they have
simply been expected to do it, as soon as it
was drawn to their attention.
	“We are receiving praise from all quar-
ters for the kind of campaign we put up—
no personalities, no boasting of what we
would do, no promises, no meddling with
other issues, just ‘Votes for Women,’
straight through, because it is just and rea-
sonable, and because it has everywhere been
found expedient.
	“In some polling places women were given
places, and in some our little ‘Don’t forget
to vote for the Amendments’ were tacked
up on the wall.
	“We had a difference of opinion as to just
what was the best reminder, so had three
kinds printed. I enclose them.
	“The university precinct went in favor of
suffrage three and a half to one; the City
Hall precinct, two to one; one precinct,
twenty to one—all in Seattle.”


The Swedish Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion is making elaborate preparations for
lavish entertainment of the International
Congress to be held in Stockholm, June 12
to 17, 1911.
	The Scandinavian countries lie somewhat
outside the usual line of tourist travel, but
no countries in Europe repay one more gen-
erously for a visit than do these picturesque
northern lands. Many a traveler has pro-
nounced Stockholm the most beautiful cap-
tal in Europe, and one more modest de-
clares that, if this is not true, it at least oc-
cupies the finest position of any European
capital city. It is built on islands where the
waters of the Maren, often called “The Lake
of a Thousand Isles,” meet those of the
Baltic, and form a broad, deep bay, studded
with innumerable forest clad, rocky islets.
It is rare that scenery so near the busy cen-
tre of life retains its untouched freshness as
is true of the surroundings of Stockholm.
	Max Nordau in writing of Stockholm de-
clares that “the Almighty must have select-
ed a section of Scottish lake scenery, a por-
tion of the sea coast of Naples, a few of the
islands of Hyeres, some granite hill-tops
from the Ural chain, and then, shaking them
well together in a large caldron, poured the
mixture out upon the banks of the bay of
the Baltic, where they form the capital of
the kingdom of Sweden and bear the name
of Stockholm.”—C. C. C. Woman’s Jour
nal.


