[Column 1]
BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.
	The birthday anniversary of the Presi-
dent of the Church of Latter-day Saints,
which occurred on Sunday, November 13,
was kept very quietly in the family, and
some friends of the President who are fa-
miliar in the home at the Bee Hive, called
to pay their respects and congratulate the
President, wishing him every blessing life
can offer to one so dear to the hearts of the
people, who sustain him as Prophet, Seer
and Revelator, and who in the bonds of
brotherly and sisterly love hold him in that
good fellowship that knows no limit.
	That President Smith is beloved by this
people among whom his life has been spent
in loving service, needs no individual testi-
mony. Very little, comparatively speaking,
has ever been said concerning the birthday
anniversary of President Joseph F. Smith,
and it is high time the children of this peo-
ple were informed of the birthday, that they
may observe and keep in mind this memor-
able day, and do honor to the great leader,
who is using all his time, energy, and talents
for the furtherance of the work of the Lord,
in which he has been engaged all his life
long from earliest childhood, as every one
knows who is acquainted with Church his-
tory.
	When a very little boy, previous to his
father’s martyrdom, he was almost con-
stantly near his beloved father, and still re-
members, although so very young, many
stirring incidents in which his father took
part on memorable occasions that are thrill-
ing with interest, relating to the times when
this people were passing what might be
termed a turning point in the lives and
events of the most remarkable religious per-
secution in the history of any people in
America.
	It is safe to say that no other President
since the Prophet Joseph Smith has such a 
unique personality and a life so rich in that
which constitutes strength of character, wis-
dom and knowledge of affairs within and
without the Church, as our present Prophet
Seer and Revelator.
	Joseph F. Smith is the only President
born in the Church. This in itself is a sig-
nificant fact, cradled in Mormonism, inher-
iting it pre-natally, fed and nurtured with
the wisdom that comes through obedience 
to the word of the Lord, from the very first.
Coming to his own at a time when extra-

[Column 2]
ordinary events were transpiring; full of
zeal in the cause of truth and righteousness,
and possessed of that indomitable courage
that makes for progress and the establish-
ment of monuments of renown, to stand as
waymarks to the latest generations of time,
that all who follow him may point to with
pride, for they herald forth the dawn of
peace and good will to all mankind, and re-
late to a period of time when the watchword
of the people was significant of the greatest
epochs of the last days, the fulness of times,
when all things are to be gathered into one
to prepare for the coming of the Messiah.
	The children are taught to reverence
Mother Lucy Smith as the mother of the
greatest prophet of this dispensation; added
to this they should be taught that Mother
Lucy Smith is the grandmother of the pres-
ent Prophet, Joseph F. Smith, and by no
means should they be allowed to forget the
mother of Joseph F. Smith, our present
Prophet—Mary Fielding Smith, who en-
dured toil, privation, and hardship, and
whose courage and heroism was equal to
that of any man of her time, or to the great
women of the heroic past.
	Teach his history  to the children of our 
own time.


