[Column 1]
elemate. You have just such a family as
I could love. My house shall be their home.
I will adopt them as my own. For the
present I would advise you to sell your ef-
fects, place the little ones with some kind
friends, and the four eldest shall come to
my house and be received and treated as
my own children, and if I find the others
are not content or not treated right, I will
bring them home and keep them, until you
return.” I wrung my hands in the agony
of despair at the thought of our being brok-
en up as a family, and being separated from
the loved ones. “But,” said the Prophet,
“my home shall be your home, eternally
yours.” My father sought to comfort us by
saying two years would soon pass away,
then we might be together again. Soon af-
ter he left, my sister Lydia, aged eight
years and eleven months, was attacked with
brain fever. We had visited her several
times and found that all that was done did
not relieve her sufferings and when we told
the Prophet how very sick she was he told
the boys to put a bed in the carriage and he
went with them. Told the family that they
must excuse him but he was under the
greatest obligation to look after their wel-
fare and had come to take her to his own
house where he could see to her himself.
He took her in his arms from the carriage
and baptized her in the Mississippi River;
but in a few days she too passed away.
Everything that could be done was done.
But she was to join her dear mother in the
spirit world and we were left more lonely
than before. Here allow me to say that our
own father and mother could scarcely have
done more or manifested greater solici-
tude for her recovery than did the Prophet
and his wife Emma. They watched with
us by her bedside and when all was over ac-
companied us to her last resting place be-
side her mother. One after another were
brought home until all the younger mem-
bers of the family were there except the
baby. Judge Adams and wife, of Spring-
field, Ill., came to Nauvoo and desired one
of the girls to live with them. We reluc-
tantly consented for sister Jane to return
with them, where she had a pleasant home
until after their death, when she returned to
Nauvoo. My brother William married Miss
Olive Hovey Farr, in the fall of 1843. They
boarded at the Mansion six months then
went to housekeeping and took the children
with him. I begged the privilege of going
with them. I thought it too great a task for
his wife to assume so great a responsibility.
The Prophet and his wife introduced us as
their sons and daughters. Every privilege
was accorded us in the home. Every pleas-
ure within reach was ours. He often re-
ferred to Brother Lorin as his “Edwin.”
He was indeed his confidential and trusted
friend. He was ever by his side; arm in arm
they walked and conversed freely on various
subjects. He was with him when he was
arrested at Dixon by Wilson and Reynolds,
who were determined to take him down the
river into Missouri but were foiled in this
attempt. It was in this case “Uncle Billy”
Rogers, as he was familiarly called, made
himself conspicuous in his defense, declared
with an oath that they could not come there
and kidnap a man and take him away in that
manner. Said he would be damned if Smith
would not have fair play. They were forced
to take him through the state by way of
Nauvoo. Lorin hurried on home, brought

[Column 2]
his favorite horse Charley, and met him on
foot, weary and covered with dust. He
warmly embraced him, mounted his horse,
and rode into Nauvoo. As they drew near
the city the people turned out en masse to
greet him. Brother Lorin went with him
to Springfield to attend his trial and had the
exquisite pleasure of seeing him acquitted.
	At the time he crossed the river and was
actively making arrangements to go beyond
the Rocky Mountains, he said, “I have the
promise of life for five years if I listen to
the voice of the spirit.” But when Emma
and some of his brethren besought him to
return, he said, “If my life is worth nothing
to you it is worth nothing to me.’ He well
knew it was in the programme that he must
sacrifice his life for the principles God had
revealed through him. Death had no terrors
for him although life was dear. I have often
heard him say he expected to seal his testi-
mony with his blood. He anticipated great
joy in meeting his parents and friends be-
yond the grave. He believed that as soon
as the spirit left the body we were shaking
hands with and greeting our friends.”
