		SNOWFLAKE STAKE. 
	The Relief Society Conference convened
at Snowflake, Aug. 19th, 1910, at 10 a. m.,
President Mary J. R. West presiding, Sister
Annie Kartchner conducting the singing. 
	Singing, “Our mountain home so dear.”
	Opening address of welcome by President
Mary J. R. West. She expressed her pleas-
ure at having Sisters Harker and Jensen of
the General Relief Society Board of Salt
Lake City, with us. Spoke of the great good
the Relief Society had done. Also of the
words of the Prophet Joseph Smith when
the Relief Society was organized. Each
mother should strive to gain the Lord’s
Spirit to guide them in rearing her chil-
dren. 
	Recitation, “God seen in the phenomena
of nature,” by Laura Baird. 
	Relief Society Officers of General Board
and Stake were unanimously sustained. 
	Showlow Ward Relief Society reported
by President Adah Owens. Snowflaks Re-
lief Society reported by First Counselor
Nellie M. Smith. St. Joseph Relief Society
reported by President Nina Porter. All were
in good condition Lakeside Relief Society
reported by Sister Margaret Larson The
sisters had been helping one another with
their sewing. Their scattered condition kept
them from holding meetings regularly in
winter. 
	Remarks by Sistetr Hattie Harker: She
was pleased to meet with us. All have their
cares, and can find excuses to remain home
from our meetings. Economize our work,
laundry, housecleaning, etc. This life is not
all and we must prepare ourselves for a
better one, by enlightening our minds every
day. Learn to be forgiving and charitable
toward our fellow men. Follow the exam-
ples Christ set for us. Prayed God to bless
all the sisters, and aid them with His S[-]irit
to guide and protect them. 
	Song by Sister Ellen Adair. 
	Remarks by Sister Hattie Jensen: She
was pleased to meet the sisters of the Snow-
flake Stake, and was delighted with our lit-
tle town. Spoke of the many inventions to
lighten work, since the Gospel was restored. 
How we should be thankful and take advan-
tage of these helps, and improve our minds
by study. How the sisters of the Relief So-
ciety should learn to love one another. Al-
ways think whatever comes is best, when we
are striving to live right. Cultivate cheer-
fulness. 
	Organ solo, by Sister Nellie Hunt. 
	Talk on Mother’s Work by Prest. May H.
Larson.
	Benediction by Sister Emma S. Smith.


Afternoon service convened at 2 p. m.,
President Mary J. R. West presiding
	Original paper, “Education of Women,”
by Sister Lulu J. Smith.
	Remarks by Sister Hattie Harker: There 
are other duties besides keeping the
home spotlessly clean. The mother who
passes away and leaves a family of honor-
able children will be remembered longer
than the mother who neglects her children
to keep her house clean. The children are
better off in the home circle than running
the streets. Protect your sons and daugh-
ters. Be companions with them, enter into
their pleasures, and see that they are inno-
cent pleasures.
	Music by President Ida Rhoten of Shum
way Ward.
	Taylor Relief Society reported by Sister
Ellen Bates, first counselor. The Society
was in good condition, but the average at-
tendance could be improved.
	Remarks by President Samuel F. Smith,
Commended the sisters of the Stake for
their loyalty. Also commented upon what
Sister Harker had said, “that all women
should be virtuous, and the greatest mis-
sion on earth is that of motherhood. Every
child she bore added beauty to her. Prayed
God to bless the mothers and all the Relief
Society workers.
	Remarks by Sister Hattie Jensen: She
also spoke of a woman’s great mission in
bearing and rearing children. The husband
should love and caress the wife and show
her that he loves her, and she in turn
should be devoted to her husband. As Lat-
ter-day Saints we should strive to be exam-
ples. Get your children’s confidence in child-
hood and grow to be companions with them.
Spoke of our girls being attracted by smooth
gentlemanly actions on account of their in-
nocence. Talk plain and teach them how
to protect their virtue and their bodies.
	If we live up to the requirements of the
Gospel we will be able to overcome all ob-
stacles.
	Remarks by President James M. Flake:
We always need encouragement to help us
do our duties at all times. Asked God’s
blessings upon our righteous efforts and up-
on our Relief Society.
	Closing remarks by President Mary J. R.
West: Was pleased to know that God had
blessed us so much. And thanked the sis-
ters who had come so far to visit us.
	Singing, “Praise to the man.”
	Prayer by Jenet M. Smith.
				LAURA BIRD,
					Stake Secretary.

