[Column 1]
REPORT OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN’S
		RELIEF SOCIETY.
	By Emmeline B. Wells, President.
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, Oct, 25, 1910.
Madame President, Officers and Members
		of the National Council of Women of
		the United States,
	DEAR FRIENDS: The Relief Society as it
was originally named was first organized in
Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17th, 1842, with
eighteen members, including the officers. Of
this select company, who met together on
that memorable day, 68 years ago, not one
is now living; the last surviving member was
our late President, Mrs. Bathsheba W.
Smith (who passed away September 20,
1910). Mrs. Smith was then a young
woman, nineteen years of age; she wit-
nessed every phase of the Society’s growth
from the very commencement, being one of
its founders, and lived to see it increase in
membership to over forty thousand, and
like a tree, its branches have spread abroad,
bearing fruit in many lands and among
many peoples.
	The object of the Society is really what
the name implies: relief from want, assist-
ance to the needy, relief from ignorance
through simple forms of helpfulness, charity
for all, of all creeds and races. Philan-

[Column 2]
thropic endeavors, temporal, spiritual, edu-
cational, and industrial, entering into every
department of home and of public life, from
those early years until the present time, as
far as the day and age admitted of woman’s
fitness and efforts for humanity.
	It would be quite impossible to tell in
one brief article of the many industrial lines
of work that have been undertaken in the
interest of woman’s advancement.
	The Society is so perfectly and system-
atically organized that it has been compar-
atively easy, to reach every individual mem-
ber when necessary in any important move-
ment for the public good.
	The Society consists of over 750 distinct
organizations, with executive officers in each
to transact business and plan work, and all
these are under one general head or depart-
ment, who are constantly in receipt of in-
formation and as it were in touch with every
phase of the work undertakne in each sep-
arate organization. One of the underlying
principles is to teach those women who need
assistance how to help themselves and to
give employment to the unemployed, when-
ever possible.
	Many lines of work have been undertaken
and carried on sucessfully, certainly there
have been failures, but never discourage-
ments, but in most cases “Try Again” has
been the motto.
	There are organized branches of this So-
ciety in more than twenty states in the
Union, in Canada and Mexico, in Great Brit-
tain and Ireland, the Netherlands, in Ger-
many and Switzerland, in Norway, Sweden
and Denmark, in Australia, New Zealand,
the Sandwich and Society Islands, and in
South Africa.
	The benefits resulting cannot be estimat-
ed: social, industrial, economic, educational,
in the best sense of the word. The training
of nurses in order to have skilled help in
charity cases, and as an employment for
young women and a preparation for moth-
erhood—a mother’s department in every dis-
tinct branch of the great whole, the gather-
ing of grain, and storing it against a time
of need—building of houses for Society pur-
poses, and such industries as silk culture
have been fostered, nurtured and maintained
and desirable results achieved.
	There is scarcely any enterprise undertak-
en by women that has not been helped by
this organization, which reaches into every
home and hamlet. Perhaps no other organ-
ization enters as fully into the domestic de-
partment of the realm of home life as does
the teaching and developing of the principles
embodied in the Relief Society.
	We feel this report is inadequate to the
subject and yet it covers the ground. One
of our mottoes in this work has always been
“Charity never faileth,” and it is the most
applicable to relief work of any phrase in the
English vocabulary.
	Since our last report to the National
Council, this Society has moved into its own
headquarters where also other woman’s or-
ganizations are located—the Y. L. M. I. A.,
which is auxiliary to the Council also, and
the officers will take great pleasure in re-
ceiving calls from the women from all parts
of the world, and especially the members and
friends of the National and International
Councils with which these two organizations
are affiliated.
	The most important and significant event
that has transpired since our last report is
the recent demise of our beloved and hon-


ored President, Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith,
whose name has been inscribed on your roll
call of Presidents for the last nine years.
Her death occurred on Tuesday morning,
September 20, 1910, after an illness of three
months. Her name was known throughout
the world, and her beautiful and blameless
life stands as an example worthy of emula-
tion, and an incentive to all women in every
land to go and do likewise.
	Mrs. Smith was active and efficient in
many directions and had learned in her long
experience, the richest and best lessons of
wisdom from the open book of life itself.
	The best description that can be given of
this great woman in brief is portrayed in
the following verse:

