PAST AND FUTURE.
Relief Society, ah well art thou named!
Thy mission has ever been one of succor;
Comfort and cheer have been thy watchwords;
To minister unto the afflicted to bind u[-] the
	broken hearted,
To aid the needy and the distressed in all the
	land.
Skillful have been the hands of thy workers,
To fashion fabrics unto useful forms.
Industry and thrift have characterized thy mem-
	bers;
Self-supported hast thou ever been; independent,
Giving thine assistance freely without return.
Not pleasure, but “pleasure in duty” has been
	thy motto,
And when the work of thy hands was com-
	pleted,
Thou hast not given thyself to idle recreation.
But ever hast thou turned thy mind to study.
For wisdom and knowledge hast thou sought.
In good books and in counsel together.
To what, then, shall we liken thee?
To a colony of ants, toiling indefatigably;
To a hive of bees gathering the golden honey
Of wisdom, and from thy precious store,
Sweetening the daily life of all around thee.
This has been thy history—one long labor of
	love.


And were this to compass thy destiny.
It were enough to send thy fame ringing down
	the ages.
But grander yet awaits thee:
Thou shalt in time to come assist in freeing
	woman
From all restraining shackles which yet en-
	circle her about;
Conventions, prejudices, senseless fashions,
And all that seems to raise her up but holds
	her down.
Preventing her from gaining and adorning.
The loftier summits of a nobler womanhood.
Thou shalt encourage, stren[-]then, lead her
Along the steep and thorny path which she
	must climb
To grander realms of thought, a broader vision,
A wider scope of action, clearer light.
Then, since the woman is the great regener-
	ative power,
Uplifted and renewed the race inevitabl[-] must
	be.
Thus with thy fellow organizations
As auxiliaries and aids unto the priesthood
Still must thou labor for the right,
The spread of truth, the welfare of the whole,
To usher in the great millennial day.
To social motherhood thou wilt yet attain,
Continuing the relief of physical distress.
Relief of moral suffering, social wrong, thou
	then wilt undertake.
Humanity calls upon thee to relieve the crush-
	ing burden
Of dire oppression and injustice which doth.
	weigh it down.
Then here upon thy glorious natal day,*
Whilst thou lookest back with joy and pride
Upon the toilsome path whhich thou hast climbed,
Forget not upward still to cast thine eye
To heights thou yet shalt scale, and, gaining,
Make clear the way to all who watch thy pro-
	gress,
Earth’s mighty sisterhood who must follow in
	thy steps.
—Mariam Adams Gudmunsen.

*March 17.


