			SEVIER STAKE. 
	The Relief Society conference convened
at Richfield, June 28, 1910, at 10 a. m., Pres-
ident Christine W. Sorensen presiding.
	President C. Sorensen spoke of the busy
time our conference is held. It is dangerous
for sisters to drive teams; horses are afraid
of automobiles. I love Relief Society work;
we are united in the Stake Board, and in vis-
iting we are united with the different boards. 
Let us continue and improve. We have Sis-
ter Julia P. M. Farnsworth of the General
Board with us. 
	Dr. Gledhill gave a lecture. In addressing
mothers, I have chosen the subject, “The
Child.” Spoke of wayward children. There
has been mismanagement, sometime in life,
also of physical and mental defects. Spoke
of pre-natal influence. Many are at disad-
vantage. Strong minds need strong bodies. 
Children are crowded through school, and
many nervous breakdowns follow too much
study. Don’t tax children too much while
growing. Spoke on nursing of children:
Mothers’ milk is most natural and best. We
must understand how to govern unruly chil-
dren. Meat is a bad article of diet, influ-
encing child to be stubborn. Strong sea-
soned foods have an influence on children,
inclining them to strong drink in later years. 
Spoke of destroying confidence of our chil-
dren by one parent saying yes and another
saying no. The most important thing in life
is raising of our children. Lectured very in-
terestingly. 
	Song by Mrs. Josie Christensen, “Will it
be a joyful harvest, when I reap what I have
sown?”
	President Minnie Nebeker (Richfield 1st
Ward): Mother’s mission is a great one. 
We hurry too much in our lives, and don’t
take time to study our opportunities. Do
we appreciate our privileges, improve every
moment and each day and accomplish some-
thing, encourage our daughters to study
their mission, and educate ourselves in the
Gospel and teach the same to our children?
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth of General
Board said Sister Emily Richards, who
came with her, had to go home on account
of sickness, also that our dear President
Bathsheba W. Smith, being very feeble, she
wished the sisters to pray for her. Enjoyed
the lecture by Dr. Gledhill, also minutes read
and all exercises of this morning. Spoke of
her extended trip through Europe. Encour-
aged mothers to tell boys of the Relief So-
ciety before going on missions. The Relief
Society work is the greatest and grandest
work of women in the world. Spoke of priv-
ileges and blessings of wives and mothers,
and of evils abroad. Let us indeed be help-
mates to our husbands. Invited all the sis-

[Column 2]
ters to visit the apartments in the Bishop’s
building. Song, “Earth with her ten thou-
sand flowers.”
	After benediction by Brother L. P. Jen-
sen, conference adjourned until 2 p. m. 
	Afternoon session commenced at 2 p. m.,
President C. Sorensen presiding. After
opening exercises the General and Stake of-
ficers were sustained unanimously. Sister
Mina Hansen gave a lecture on the Life of
Christ. Spoke of the parables and other
teachings of the Savior. The Gospel teaches
poor and lowly as well as the rich. Men-
tioned the good Samaritan. Every one in
need is our neighbor. 
	Counselor Mary E. Magleby had enjoyed
our conference thus far. In the lecture by
Dr. Gledhill, also the remarks by Sister
Farnsworth, many beautiful points were
brought out. Spoke of the Prophet Joseph
Smith as the greatest man in this dispensa-
tion. Let us use our time in adorning the
souls of our children and not so much their
bodies. 
	Song by Sister Bolinda Young, “Beyond
the gates of Paradise,” very beautifully ren-
dered. 
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth: “The Gos-
pel has the sublimest truths.” Spoke espe-
cially of our sustaining the Exponent also
spoke of the book, “The Life of President
Woodruff,” and said the Nurse Class had
been discontinued for this year, and later
other arrangements would be made. Thought
more care and love should be given our
children. Prayers learned at mother’s knee
will never be forgotten. She had seen the
original picture of “the Lord’s Supper,” in
Italy. Sister Farnsworth then spoke of sav-
ing grain; it will surely be needed; also
urged us to get up a plan of mothers’ work
for our stake. Asked the Lord to bless us
in all things, that we may be able to advance. 
	Sister Mary Swindle bore faithful testi-
mony, and spoke of many blessings. En-
couraged sisters to make average attendance
greater in future, and appreciate the priv-
ileges we have, and embrace all opportuni-
ties. 
	Brother Morton Jensen was satisfied with
the appointment to labor in the Relief Soci-
ety. Sisters are capable of doing their work. 
Am very much pleased with instructions giv-
en today. Mothers should teach their sons
so when asked in mission field to organize a
Relief Society, they would be able to do so. 
Spoke of the sisters in Denmark, holding
work meetings and gathering means to help
the poor. 
	Bishop Heber Christensen (Richfield 1st
Ward) said conditions to do evil are just as
great today as conditions to do good. Spoke
of duties of parents, also on keeping the
Word of Wisdom, and that a full percent-
age of good may be reported by parents in
future. Let us look after our girls and try
to keep them at home, and as Sister Farns-
worth suggested, that they may not attend
these dangerous places of amusement, and
all will have to help to bring about a better
condition for us. 
	Brother P. L. Jensen appreciated teach-
ings given. If we put these into practice
we will succeed. Am pleased to belong to
Relief Society of this stake. When we do
our duties we feel blessed; we also should
set an example worthy of imitation. 
	President Christine Sorensen: We have
had much good instruction; am thankful for
brethren being present, also appreciate the
visit of Sister Farnsworth, and the efforts of

[Column 3]
choir singing for us. Spoke of plan to be
gotten up for Sevier Stake. Encouraged Sis-
ters of different wards to attend Relief So-
ciety business meetings, asked the brethren
to assist the sisters to come to conference. 
Spoke on wheat question and Exponent. It
is our paper, and each Relief Society should
get a few more subscribers. “Lord bless us
that we all may return to our homes in safe-
ty,, and that Sister Farnsworth may accom-
plish her labors and return home in safety. 
	After singing and benediction conference
adjourned until further notice. 
	Singing, “God be with you, till we meet
again.” Benediction by Sister Louisiana
Hepler.
