RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIALS.
	On Saturday, October 29th, 1910, the
Halifax Branch Relief Society held their an-
nual sale of work. An excellent tea was
provided, also a splendid program, which
was very ably rendered. The room was
crowded, about one hundred and fifty saints
and friends being present. The sum of about
£10 was realized, which will be used to re-
lieve the wants of the sick and needy in the
branch.
	The Relief Society of the Belfast branch
(Irish conference) gave a party at the Meet-
ing Hall, 40 Donegal Street, on Hallowe’en.
The elders were invited to be present. All
had a splendid time. An impromptu pro-
gram was rendered, after which delicious re-
freshments were served, conspicuous among
which was a surprise pie, made of cold pota-
toes and mustard, furnished by the elders.
Searchers for curious facial expressions, had
they been present, would have been amply
rewarded for their attendance.
	On Saturday evening, October 29th, 1910,
a very successful and entertaining social was
held at the Latter-day Saints’ Chapel, Ne-
ville Street, Middleton Road, Oldham (Man-
chester conference), for the purpose of pro-
curing means with which to purchase forms
for the meeting-room. It was held jointly
by the Manchester and Old ham branches
respectively. There were about one hundred
and fifty saints and friends present, the net
proceeds being £2 5s. 9d. There were many
excellent numbers on the program, each per-
son rendering the part in a pleasing and
satisfactory manner. All present expressed
themselves as having enjoyed the program
exceedingly.
	On Saturday, October 29th, 1910, was
witnessed the largest gathering of its kind
ever held by the members of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the
Keighley branch. The occasion was a con-
cert prepared by the elders, and a pie sup-
per kindly given by Sister Elijah Midgley
of the Relief Society. The hall was filled to


overflowing with saints and investigators,
many of whom were at an assembyl of the
Latter-day Saints for the first time. All
seemed highly satisfied, and many expressed
a desire to come again. The proceeds, £1
18s., will be applied on our piano account.
	The Relief Society of the Gainsboro
branch (Hull conference) gave a very nice
social on November 7th, 1910, at Vamplews
Hall. More than one hundred saints and
friends were present. Several of the friends
donated their services free, both with the
program and also with accommodations. Re-
freshments were served and a very enjoyable
time had, and great credit is due those who
had the undertaking in hand, for it was a
decided success. The money received will
be used to buy material for the Relief So-
ciety.—Millennial Star.


