“UPHOLD THE RIGHT.”
Though few may praise, or help, or heed us,
	Let us work on, with head, or heart, or 
		hand;
For that we know the future ages need us.
	And we must help our time, to take its
		stand.				—R. A. V.

	How many there are who complain and
grow discouraged on life’s journey, because
they do not get the help, the encourage-
ment they feel is needed in some good work
undertaken; and often we hear it said, Well,
we cannot get the support of the people in
this or that good work, and it is for the
public good; and we shall be compelled to
let it go—and so many good efforts made
have been cast aside—and those first deeply
interested have not had the courage needed
to pull through. What a blessing it is to
have great moral courage. We are as a 
people very proud of our loyalty to each
other, and, generally speaking, our people
have been able to stand together, and in this
course we are sure to gain ground, and often
overcome great obstacles, that oppose our
onward progress, but not always; now and
then some few get an idea that they know
better how things are going to turn than the
majority know, and instead of trusting to 
the people as a whole, get a small following
and are so confident they are right, and sure
of ultimate success, that they win to their
cause those who are unwary and easily per-
suaded, yielding to entreaty without mak-
ing themselves sure before hand.


It is good to know one is right, and there
are sure ways of knowing—there is always
“the still, small voice” within one’s own
breast—if one cultivates his conscience; 
the first whisperings, when one is in doubt
and at times when one is not in doubt—but
we were not proposing to analyze this sub-
ject, only it is quite apparent all Latter-
day Saints who are diligent in season and
out of season, desire to be on the right side
of all important questions, consequently 
when grave matters are pending it is ob-
viously a duty to be on the right side.
	Watch the signs of the times, weigh care-
fully the propositions made by those who di-
rect affairs for the city and state or the na-
tion, seek for wisdom from the Lord as well
as from the best sources of worldly knowl-
edge. All these things are waymarks, but 
one may have to pick and choose when
traveling on life’s journey as when travel-
ing over country, new and strange, where
there are cross-roads and by-paths, and
sometimes it transpires one has to decide for
himself which road will take him on the 
way to his “desired haven.” In such a case
one can turn back when he finds he has
gone the wrong way; that is fortunate--
but so on the journey of life—if one can
only see he or she has gone wrong; but
how hard it is sometimes “to see ourselves
as others see us.” And this is where great
moral courage is necessary, and true no-
bility of character is displayed—when one
is willing to right the mistake. How
many great ones have fallen, who might
have been “bright and shining lights” had
they been willing to retract, or turn back
after departing upon the wrong way, sim-
ply, perhaps, through an error in judgment,
or being over confident in certain measures
that confront the people and need radical
treatment in their opinion, but when the 
men and women are cautious, and do not
rush blindly into difficult places, but soberly
ponder when the time is ripe for action.
The old proverb, “Fools rush in where an-
gels dare not enter,” is applicable at times
when strenuous help is needed, but the man
who watches most carefully and solicitously
that which will be “the greatest good to the
largest number” is the one to lead; when a
ship is in danger, who gives the orders, the
man at the helm, who sees the danger, who
is in charge of the lives and safety of those
on board, his word is the signal--everyone
familiar with leadership knows that when 
dangers threaten there need be no hesitancy
about the methods of standing united in de-
fending the right for righteousness sake.
Let us hope and pray that hereafter, when
there is so much at stake the loyal people
may take the right course to obtain the vic-
tory—the triumph of right that means suc-
cess to those who have peopled the country
and made “the desert to blossom as the
rose.”


