	LUCY WALKER KIMBALL.
		(Autobiography.)
	Early next morning a fine looking young
officer rode into camp and said he had come
as a friend to save us from the fate of those
at the mill. He referred to the dreadful
scene with words of sympathy and regret;
said he was forced to join the military to
save his own life, but had done and would
do all in his power to save the oppressed. If
we would follow him he would lead us to
a place of safety in a friendly neighbor-
hood, where he would find shelter from the
cold storms of winter. We followed him
and there was where my father found us.
James Flanagan, the young misionary who
died with smallpox in England in 1848, was
one of our company. He was an exem-
plary young man, in fact an exception
among men. His zeal for the cause of truth
was unexcelled.
	We left the State of Missouri in 1838;
went with the Saints to Quincy, Illinois,
and to Nauvoo in 1841.
	My father performed two missions to the
Eastern States, emigrated with the Church
in 1846 to Council Bluffs, and was appoint-
ed president of a branch of the Church in
that locality. In 1850, he came to Utah and
settled in Farmington, Davis County, where
after many years of suffering, caused by the
hardships he had endured, he passed away
October 18, 1869, aged seventy-five years,
five months and eight days. Thus ended
the life of one whose great grandfather
came from Scotland and was one of the first
settlers in Connecticut. His grandfather,
Jos. Walker, was born in Connecticut, town
of Woodbury. His wife’s name was Eliza-
beth. They had five sons and several daugh-
ters. The sons’ names were as follows:
Joseph, Simeon, Caleb, Timothy and Reu-
ben. The names of the daughters I do not
know. He subsequently moved to Peacham,
Caledonia County, Vermont. He was over
ninety-five years of age. His wife died at
ninety. His father, Simeon Walker, was
born in Connecticut, town of Woodbury,
and in the Revolutionary war served his
country faithfully, being severely wounded
by a cannon ball in the thigh, which pro-
duced lameness during life. I fancy I see
him now as he comes down the hill from
Peacham bowed with the infirmities of age
and hardship, leaning on his staff. He takes
me on his knee and tells me the story of the
war; how he became lame; how bravely
they fought for freedom; “Liberty or death”
was the watchword. My grandfather was
one of the first settlers in Peacham. There
they were compelled to stand guard to pre-
vent being kidnapped by the Tories. After
the Tories were subdued he made a farm,
married Mary, daughter of Reuben and
Beulah Miner, and had a family of nine
children, namely, Solomon, Simeon, Abel,
John, Charles, Ruth, Clarinda, Mary and
Elizabeth.
	William Holmes my grandfather, on my
mother’s side, was born January 15, 1770,
in Kingston, Plymouth County, Massachu-

[Column 2]
setts; Lydia Adams, his wife, was born same
town, county and state.
	Lydia Holmes, my mother, was an only
daughter, almost an idol in the home where
there were seven sons. There was great
grief in the hearts of, her family and friends
when she received the gospel and came west.
Their sorrow knew no bounds when they
received news of her death, which occurred
January 18, 1842, at Nauvoo, Hancock
County, Illinois. I will state here, however,
that my father and second brother, Lorin,
came to Nauvoo in the spring of 1840, to
attend conference and secure a home. Fath-
er concluded to leave Lorin with the Proph-
et until harvest, with the understanding that
he should then return and help him through
harvesting; but when the time came, the
Prophet told him to write to father to hire
some one in his stead and at his expense, as
he could not part with him. In the spring
of ’41 father took his family to Nauvoo.
My brother met us with an invitation to
dinner, which we gladly accepted and were
introduced to the Prophet and his wife Em-
ma, and the dear children, who in after years
I learned to love as my own brothers, and
Julia, an adopted daughter, as my sister.
During the summer mother was taken with
chills and fever. At length one after an-
other of the children were attacked with
the same disease until all were in a help-
less condition. Mother was invited to spend
a few days at the Prophet’s house, they
thinking a change would benefit her. But
she could not be content away from her
afflicted family. At her earnest solicitation
they sent her home to her family, by plac-
ing a bed in a sleigh, as the summer had
passed and it was now good sleighing, cov-
ered her closely with blankets and, besides,
sent many comforts to those at home, as
they had often done during her stay.
	My mother lingered until January, ’42,
then passed away. Calling her children
around her bed she bore a faithful testi-
mony as to her convictions that Joseph
Smith was a Prophet of God, and that
through him the Gospel of the Son of God
had been restored in its fulness, whereby
we might return into the presence of the
Father; exhorted her children to never de-
part from the truth, but to live so that she
might meet them in that world where there
would be no more sorrow, no more suffer-
ing, no more tears of anguish at pronounc-
ing the sad word goodbye. She then closed
her eyes and her sweet spirit passed away,
leaving a beautiful smile on her dear face.
It did not seem to us that it was possible
she was dead, but only in a sweet sleep.
When at length we were forced to believe
she would never speak to us again we were
in the depths of despair. Ten motherless
children! And such a mother! The young-
est was not yet two years old. What were
we to do?
	The Prophet came to our rescue. He
said: “If you remain here, Brother Walk-
er, you will soon follow your wife. You
must have a change of scene, a change of


