[Column 1]
		THANKSGIVING.
	Thanksgiving in November dates back
to an early period in the history of Amer-
ca. The earliest one known on this side of
the Atlantic was appointed by William
Bradford, Governor of Plymouth, in 1621,
and history tells us that the great old Gov-
ernor issued the mandate in form: “Through
virtue of vested power ye shall gather with
one accord and hold in the month of No-
vember Thanksgiving unto the Lord.”
	If any people have reason to offer thanks-
giving to the Lord this people gathered here
in these mountain vales had good reason on
the day set apart this year. 
	Not that we as a community had every-
thing we wanted, but we had very recently
gained a victory that was most gratifying
to a large number of people and though
the utmost quiet was observed outwardly,
there was rejoicing more or less in the hearts
of those that knew what it meant to the vi-
cinity of Salt Lake.
	In this matter women may be counted as
having stood courageously for the right and
rights of the ballot in their hands, and
thankful, indeed, are the women of Utah of
whatever creed or party that they have equal
suffrage, and a voice in matters pertaining
to “life, liberty and the pursuit of happi-
ness.” And even if the women of this fair
state have not yet attained to all the rights
and privileges they are in reality entitled to,
they have the opportunity of getting educat-
ed in matters pertaining thereto, and by and
bye, for it is sure to come, they will be bet-
ter qualified to take the places assigned to
them in the gift of the people.
	Perhaps the reader may say, What has
this to do with Thanksgiving? and we an-
swer, Very much indeed! The women of
Utah, so far as the writer knows, have been
thankful for the suffrage ever since it was
accorded them through the state Constitu-
tion, and before, when the Territorial Legis-
lature granted it in February, 1870.
	When one considers the great efforts be-
ing made in the several states in this free
country, and the desperate struggles in for-

[Column 2]
eign lands, one need be exceedinly thankful
to those noble, generous men, who were
among the first to pave the way to equal
political and civic liberty to women without
discriminating; but this article is not a dis-
sertation on equality of sex or any other po-
litical question, but merely a few thanksgiv-
ing thoughts applicable to all men and
women who reverence a Supreme Being,
who holds in His hands the lives and des-
tinies of all nations, kindreds, tongues and
peoples.
	Thanksgiving is a day on which the needy,
the sick and the sorrowful should be remem-
bered with real substantial gifts, that would
fill their hearts with joy and gratitude, and
in no other way can people who have where-
with to give make an offering so acceptable
as thanksgiving to the Lord as by giving to
those in need of assistance, not waiting for
Christmas or some other festive occasion,
but with the true spirit of benevolence and
loving kindness, give of the means you have
so abundantly received from the Lord.
	“Kind words are more than coronets,”
So said one of the great poets, but through
the perfect system of charity under the
Church management of this people, the
Bishopric and the Relief Society, the needy
are seldom neglected, and never, we hope,
forgotten; though many are unwilling to
receive help when offered, yet there are in-
genious and delicate ways of bestowing help
that cannot possibly give offence.
	The Latter-day Saints have the greatest
reason for thanksgiving to the Lord for
His manifold blessings to them, and espe-
cially for their homes and habitations in
these mountain vales, and the freedom they
enjoy under the flag of their country, while
tyranny and oppression still exist among
many nations, against which they are as yet
struggling, and find no way of escape from
the intolerance.


