[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		PIONEER STAKE.
	Minutes of morning session of Pioneer
Stake Relief Society conference, held in the 
Stake Hall, October 28, 1910, President
Annie Wells Cannon presiding. Com-
menced by singing, “Come, Dearest Lord.”
Prayer by President Wm. McLachlan.
Singing, “Let us oft speak kind words.”
	Stake well represented and reported by
the President. The wards were all in a 
good condition, fully organized with a band
of sisters who were working for the benefit
of the people. It was reported that there
was not much sickness at present, but sev-
eral cases of needy whom the Relief So-
ciety were looking after. Several of the 
wards have appointed sisters to look after
the different departments of work.
	Sister Jacobs of Pleasant Green said that
she had noticed that the best workers they
had in Relief Society were the young moth-
ers, after they had once become interested;
and to get them acquainted with this work,
she had found that the best means was to 
personally invite these young women to the
meetings and give them something special
to do.
	The President reported that there was a
slight increase in the attendance and the
work progressing. 
	Solo, “One sweetly solemn thought,” by
Minnie Poulton.
	Counselor Claire L. Clawson spoke on
the “Testimony Meeting.” Commence on 
time and make metings interesting by oc-
casionally introducing music and reading. 
Invite young sisters to do something. Have
hymns selected before meeting time. Re-
lief Society to look after the Sacrament ta-

[Column 2]
ble, under the direction of bishopric also
the drapery of meeting houses for use of
funerals. Was pleased with reports of sis-
ters, and felt to encourage the Relief Soci-
ety workers. 
	Sister Romania B. Penrose of the Gen-
eral Board spoke of her labors in the Re-
lief Society while in Europe. Said that
these organizations were increasing and the
sisters were doing a good work, as through
them many doors are opened to our elders.
Relief Society also a great help to the mis-
sionaries in helping look after the poor. Six
to seven hundred women of England inter-
ested in Relief Society and are all united.
Urged the young women to learn nursing 
and how to care for the dead. Prayed that 
the Lord would bless the Relief Society
workers in the Pioneer Stake.
	Sister Sarah Jenne Cannon of the Gen-
eral Board expressed her pleasure at being 
able to attend our conference. Encour-
aged the sisters to strive to go ahead and
not be content to stand still, said she knew 
that in times of sickness, a visit from some
of the Relief Society sisters was very help-
ful and through the faith that was mani-
fested, it was all that was needed to raise
up the afflicted. Thought that if we all had 
the desire, we could get to our meetings,
no matter where we lived.
	President A. W. Cannon said that she
was proud of Pioneer Stake Relief Soci-
ety; they were a noble band of sisters.
“We are made up of wage earners in Pio-
neer Stake, but we have a fine record in our
charity work. Told of the duties of moth-
ers to their children; and of the object in
preparing the present Outlines. Time is 
about up for our morning session, and we
hope that all will be here for the after-
noon meeting and that many more will at-
tend. Asked a blessing on all Relief Soci-
ety workers in the name of Jesus. Amen.”
	Closed by singing, “The Spirit of God.”
	Benediction by Sister Mary A. Hadley.
	Afternoon session opened by singing,
“Our Mountain Home so Dear.” Prayer by
Sister Bosina Lambert. Singing, “Jesus, I
my cross have taken,” by Primary children
from the Twenty-sixth Ward.
	The General and Stake Officers were pre-
sented and unanimously sustained.
	Sister Cannon greeted the sisters. Re-
ferred to the extremes of fashion and un-
becoming behavior among the young people
and felt it was the mother’s duty to see
that their young people do not overdress,
and to look after their conduct. “Sisters,
try not to burden yourselves with needless
work; be more moderate in dress and thus
 save time to spend with your children. En-
tertain them with stories from your own 
life, your parents and the Pioneers; and thus
make them acquainted with the history of
their ancestors.” Expressed the joy she
felt in working among the sisters of Relief 
Society.
	Sister Penrose said, “We can’t hear good
advice often enough. Glad to meet again
with the sisters. Relief Society sisters ac-
complishing a good work. Had been in the 
world, but no place like Zion. Churches in
the world are being depopulated. Spoke of
the different customs among the churches 
in Europe. “Many people of the world do 
not understand parts of the Bible; call
them mysteries. Through the Spirit of 
God these things are made clear to the Lat-
ter-day Saints. Mothers should be proud

[Column 3]
if they have sons carrying the Gospel to
the world. “Felt that Americans do not
rejoice enough for their liberty. Related
some experiences of our misionaries, where
they had been imprisoned and even banished
for the sake of their religion. Described
some of the places and scenes they had vis-
ited. Urged the sisters to do their duties
as Relief Society workers, and hoped that
the people would be united and not let our
enemies get control over our beautiful
homes here in the mountains.
	Counselor Louie P. Giauque had greatly
enjoyed the conference thus far. Felt it a 
pleasure to raise her voice in song and
prayer with her sisters. “Latter-day Saints
have no time to waste as there is work for
all.” Spoke on “The Sewing Meetings.”
Open by singing and prayer, and close with
prayer when possible. Commence at 2 p.m.
and sew perhaps until 5 o’clock, instead of 
a few working hard all day. Introduce a 
little music and reading in sewing meetings.
Sewing teachers prepare work for the
younger women who do not care for quilt-
ing or sewing carpet rags. “Prayed the
Lord would bless us in our work.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells, General Pres-
ident said it was very beautiful to meet
on such a lovely day, and to see so many
present. Pleased to see President Mc-
Lachlan. Felt it an honor to be associated
with men who hold the Priesthood. Relief 
Society the first organization of women that
there is known anything about. This or-
ganization the mother of other organiza-
tions. Relief Society has done a wonderful
work among the women of the world. Re-
ferred to the sewing meeting and the good
that is there done for the poor in the way of
quilts and clothing. Felt that the people
should pray that they might do the right
thing pertaining to our government. In-
vited the sisters to visit the Relief Society
headquarters in the Bishop’s Building. Said
the last time she was here, President Bath-
sheba W. Smith was also present. Felt
that the Lord had spared the life of Sister
Smith to an advanced age so that she could
bear her beautiful testimony of the truth of 
this Gospel and of the Prophet Joseph 
Smith. There are only a few living now who
personally knew the Prophet and President
Brigham Young Sister Smith was anxious 
that the sisters keep up the old fashioned
ways in Relief Society; the teachers are the
backbone of this organization. Knew of sis-
ters who had visited their blocks as teachers
for forty years. Said she was sorry that 
she could not have been here this morning
to hear the reports of the wards. Had ex-
pected her counselors, Clarissa S. Williams
and Julina L. Smith to be present, but they
were detained on account of sickness. Urged
all to be faithful and introduce only those
things that are good and helpful; prayed the
Lord to bless us. 
	President Wm. McLachlan had enjoyed
the remarks of the sisters during this con-
ference. Bore testimony of the good work
of Sister Cannon and knew that her judg-
ment was good. Greatly enjoyed her visit-
ing with them at the ward conferences now
being held through the stake. Urged the 
sisters to bear their testimony to their chil-
dren. Felt to condemn the fashions among 
our people. “We do not need style if we
have the Spirit of the Gospel. Urged the
mothers to see that their girls are more mod-
est in their dress. Pleased with the work
the Relief Society sisters do among the sick


