[Vol40 | November 1953 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: by Roberts]
Counselor  Christie  C.  Robertson. 
Back  row,  extreme  left,  Eva  Newton,  chorister,  and  standing  next  to  Sister  New- 
ton, Barbara  Buchanan  Tuttle,  organist  for  this  occasion.

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
763 
Photograph  submitted  by  Leah  Kirk 
TWIN  FALLS  STAKE    (IDAHO),  TWIN  FALLS   FOURTH   WARD   RELIEF 
SOCIETY  PRESIDENCY  SPONSORS  MEMBERSHIP  AND  VISITING 
TEACHING  PROJECTS 
Seated,  left  to  right:  Theda  Grant,  Second  Counselor,  and  her  four  children; 
Laura  May  Galloway,  First  Counselor,  and  her  two  children;  Millicent  Jarman,  Secre- 
tary, a  grandmother;  Mona  Brown,  President,  and  her  four  children. 
Leah  Kirk,  President,  Twin  Falls  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports  the  outstanding 
achievements  of  this  executive  group:  "We  feel  they  deserve  some  special  recognition 
for  their  outstanding  work  in  the  past  year  and  a  half.  Upon  the  division  of  the  ward, 
they  were  released,  and,  except  for  the  secretary,  they  were  immediately  re-appointed 
in  the  new  ward.  In  their  first  year  and  a  half  of  administration,  a  record  of  one  hun- 
dred per  cent  visiting  teaching  was  achieved  every  month  but  one,  and  only  one  dis- 
trict missed  the  one-hundred-per-cent  mark  that  month.  When  the  teachers  could  not 
make  their  visits,  the  presidency  did.  Theirs  was  a  large  ward,  with  202  families  to  visit, 
which  makes  the  record  even  more  commendable.  Under  this  presidency  the  attend- 
ance at  Relief  Society  meetings  increased  twenty-five  per  cent — mostly  young  mothers. 
The  sisters  render  many  compassionate  services  and  have  wonderful  work  meetings." 
PASADENA  STAKE   (CALIFORNIA)   RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
READING  PROJECT 
Madge  P.  Fowler,  President,  Pasadena  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports  an  interesting 
and  unusual  project  which  was  successfully  carried  out  in  her  stake.  "Our  stake  Maga- 
zine representative  asked  each  ward  representative  in  her  department  in  union  meeting 
to  write  a  brief  letter  on  the  subject:  'Why  I  Read  The  Relief  Society  Magazine.*  She 
asked  the  stake  board  members  to  be  judges,  and  she  gave  a  prize  to  the  winner.  All 
but  one  ward  turned  in  a  letter,  and  it  was  a  difficult  task  to  choose  the  best.  Sister 
Blanche  Calvert,  stake  Magazine  representative,  asked  if  we  could  have  a  standing  roll 
call  each  union  meeting,  asking  how  many  had  read  the  Magazine  from  cover  to 
cover.  .  .  .  Many  have  told  us  they  were  glad  we  did  this  ...  as  they  were  forming 
the  habit,  where  before  they  read  some  of  it,  but  missed  many  wonderful  things." 
Ardella  Hackford  was  announced  as  the  winner  in  the  letter-writing  contest.

764 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1953 
Photograph  submitted  by  Alice  W.  Carlisle 
ALPINE  STAKE   (UTAH),  HIGHLAND  WARD  OBSERVES  ONE-HUNDRED 
PER-CENT  DAY  March  24,  1953 
Front  row,  seated,  left  to  right:  Henrietta  Larsen;  Mary  Lee  Myres;  Kate  Rogers, 
First  Counselor;  Marie  Greenland,  President;  Verda  Jepperson,  Second  Counselor; 
Maud  Greenland,  Secretary. 
Dorcas  Hyde,  author  of  the  winning  slogan  and  verses  used  on  the  poster,  stands 
in  the  back  row,  at  the  left  of  the  slogan. 
The  sisters  of  this  organization,  realizing  that  their  average  attendance  was  low, 
decided  to  have  a  "One-Hundred-Per  Cent  Day"  during  the  Relief  Society  anniversary 
month  of  March,  "We  had  our  social  science  lesson  as  usual,"  President  Marie  Green- 
land reports,  "as  we  wanted  the,  women  to  see  how  our  meetings  are  conducted  and 
get  them  interested  in  attending  and  enjoying  all  the  meetings,  instead  of  just  the 
parties  and  the  special  events.  We  had  seventy-eight  per  cent  of  the  enrolled  mem- 
bership attend  this  meeting." 
Alice  W.  Carlisle  is  president  of  Alpine  Stake  Relief  Society. 
Photograph  submitted  by  Media  C.  Hochstrasser 
TACOMA  STAKE   (WASHINGTON)    VISITING  TEACHERS  CONVENTION 
June  23,   1953 
One  hundred  twenty-five  Relief  Society  women  attended  this  convention,  and  five 
were  especially  honored  for  outstanding  service.  Four  of  the  sisters  are  between 
seventy-eight  and  eighty-three  years  old  and  have  served  from  twenty-nine  to  fifty  years. 
They  are  still  active  in  their  wards. 
Luella  C.  Ricks  is  president  of  Tacoma  Stake  Relief  Society.