[Vol40 | November 1953 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Toward Remembering]

toward remembering. Just Like Edison Molly Johnson T was late November.
Winter had stamped an icy foot on the rural community in northern Wisconsin where we lived, and the harvest had been gathered in.
With all the heavy work finished for another year, the inevitable happened. My father began tinkering. Now we had seen father through many a tinkering spree.
Doll cradles, magazine stands, bookcases, and even little chairs for us children to sit in, but this time it was different. It was worse, sort of grim and scary. My father wouldn't even talk to us while he worked, and this was so unusual we were frightened. Evenings, when play was over and everything would begin to turn velvety-black outside, Mama would call us in, and we would sit—all four of us in a line—on a basement step near the musty potato bin, and watch father while he stuffed batteries, wires, tiny nuts, and bolts, and all kinds of other things into a big oatmeal box. We were sitting there one evening with questions just about exploding inside us when my brother got up and slowly inched over to where Dad stood at his workbench. He had a bunch of wires in his hand and was staring so hard at a magazine we wondered if he was angry at it. Big brother watched him a little while, then asked in a voice you could hardly hear, ""What's it gonna be, Dad?" We didn't breathe till we saw Dad's face soften a bit. He looked up and answered, "'A radio, son." Page 738 I sighed and thought it must be - nice to be the only boy in the family and not be afraid to ask questions whenever you wanted to. But my sister, the one who was two and a half years older than I, gave a big gasp. "A radio. Golly!" She flew up the stairs, and my tiny sister and I tagged after. We ran to the kitchen stove where Mama stood mixing something that smelled wonderful. "Mama!" my sister cried out, "Mama, you know what Dad's doing? He's making a radio!"
Mother looked at all three of us and nodded her head slowly. "Yes, I know. I asked him to buy us a radio for Christmas and he said, 'Buy you a radio! Hah, I'll make you one!' " After that things were worse than school at our house. Dad was silent and never played with us as he had before, and Mama was quiet, too, so we would be quiet. We were quiet because we had to be.
Another funny thing was the way the news of Dad's contraption went all over town. He told us not to tell a soul what he was making, yet it got so I just never went anywhere without people asking me how Dad's radio was coming, unless Dad was with me. If he was there, they didn't say much of anything. T last the big day came, the Saturday when Dad would test his radio to see if it worked! He didn't tell us until that morning. He wanted to be sure. 'Twice before he had disappointed himself and us, too, by hinting of this a few days ahead of JUST LIKE EDISON time. In each case something had gone wrong, and each time he had had to go into town again and get a new part and then work late into the night fitting it in. But this time he was sure. For Saturday night, he said, because that should be a good testing time.
There were more programs on, and it was going to be a cold, clear night. Of course, he didn't tell us not to tell anybody.
After all, who knew he was making a radio? We spent that afternoon in the crisp, squeaky snow and bright sunshine, sledding down School Hill with all the neighborhood youngsters. I don't remember now if we said much of anything about radios, but we could have, because an awful lot of people just happened to sort of drop in at our house that evening.
They sat in the living room, the dining room, on the stairway going upstairs, and in the downstairs bedroom—strung along the edge of the bed where Mama would never let us sit.
Most of them were packed in the big kitchen, though, where my father was seated at the table with his contraption. The ladies were talking about sewing and babies that had colic, so I shoved through them to where three men stood arguing in a corner of the dining room. "Tl bet you: my first spring calf that this thing don't work. You got to be a 'lectrician to make radios," one man was saying. I didn't know him well. "Takes courage to try something like that," another man mumbled, hardly opening his mouth when he talked. "You wouldn't catch me doing it." He had hurried it up 739
The third one had a face that was round and red as a tomato. He had red hair, and he was always smiling. "You gotta hand it to that fellow, though," he laughed. "He never starts anything he doesn't finish. If it doesn't work tonight, it'll work some other time, and I'm going to tell him so right now!" He shoved through the tangle of people till he reached my father. "Look, Fred..." he began, and his hand made a big gesture. It hit the oatmeal box and spilled it to the floor. Crash went the biggest dream we had ever had for Dad's tinkering, and crash went the radio that was going to work for us tonight. For sure—in front of all these people! My father dropped his head into his hands and braced his elbows on the table. He wouldn't even look at the pile of spilled things on the floor, and for a long time everything was awfully still. Tomato-head mumbled again and again that he was sorry. Slowly my brother began to pick up the stuff. "Don't worry, Dad," he kept saying. "We'll put it together again. If you did it once you can do it again. Watch and see if you can't. And this time I'll help you." M* father didn't look up. He just sat there, his head in his hands, shaking it from side to side slowly. My brother set the oatmeal box with some of the stuffings still in it on the table. Next he picked up piece after piece and tried to fit them in. My mother came and made the people move back in a circle in case anything had rolled a little ways. "Is this how it went, Dad?" my 

 —NOVEMBER 1953 brother asked over and over again. My father wouldn't look up. "Is this right? Dad? Look, the soldering is all right...
Just these other pieces came loose."
Father lifted his head. He looked as if he were sleeping with his eyes open as he straightened the box on the table before him. He didn't say a single word, just took piece after piece and began fitting them in.
Some of them took a long time, and he wanted to give up, but my brother made him keep on working. It was getting late, and my mother came up twice to make me go to bed, but I wouldn't go. I wanted to see the thing work. My eyes hurt with heaviness as I watched my father and brother working with all the things that were growing out of the oatmeal box again. How long they worked! Dad tinkered and tinkered with them.
Then he put on the earphones. He listened, turning buttons all kinds of ways for the longest while. Suddenly, he took off the earphones and then took part of the stuffings out of the oatmeal box and changed two little things halfway down to the bottom. My mother came up to me where I was sitting on a neighbor's lap and begged me to go to bed, but I shook my head and jerked my hand out of hers so hard she went away kind of angry. At last the earphones were on my father's head again. He wound up buttons on the contraption and waited. By now he looked like he had a gray and a brown tissue paper stretched over his face. All at once he smiled. "Yes! Yes I think I hear something!" he said.
Everybody in the whole house seemed to take a quick breath and move just a little bit. Dad put the earphones on my brother. I was standing close to him by this time, so I got them next.
There was music coming over them. I was disappointed.
After all that work it didn't even sound as loud as our old phonograph that stood in a corner of the living room.
Mama must have read my face. She usually did because when Dad took off the earphones she said, "Just think, dear, that music is coming from Milwaukee, or maybe even Chicago.
Three hundred miles away!" Then I realized what a wonderful thing my father had done. It took someone smart to build wires and things in an oatmeal box that could bring music from that far away without records or a phonograph— or a needle. The earphones had been on my big sister and were being passed around to other people now, and nobody spoke. I held on to Mama's skirt and tagged after while she moved somehow through all those people to put on the big, gray enamel kettle for cocoa.
Next she cut up the cake she had made for our Sunday dinner. "Just like Edison!" shouted Tomato-head, pushing himself toward my father and shaking his hand.
Then everybody was talking and laughing at once, and I just stood there feeling all warm inside to. See Dad laughing again—and thinking how proud we would always be of him. Wayne Davis THE ROAD TO MONUMENT VALLEY, ARIZONA * \ * ¥ My Sather $ Shy Norma Vance I saw the spired church—the noble tree, Reaching to the heavens. I could see The trembling leaves, the turrets high, — In the blue expanse of my Father's sky. I paused by a window, dingy and small In an office building, dark and tall; I stopped and looked, though I knew not why, Until I saw it—my Father's sky. I watched a restless wind-storm blow; I saw the clouds race to and fro, And heard the lightning's splintering cry Between me and my Father's sky. It lifts my heart for me to know That anywhere I'm called to go, To places great or small or high, It's always there—my Father's sky. Page 741
Sixty Years Ago | Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, November 1, and November 15, 1893 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" VANITY: We are told by an ancient Apostle that we are subject to vanity as the sparks fly upward; this being the case would it not be well to cultivate a sound mind, a sincere and devoted heart, that we may not lose the prize of our high calling through vanity, for this being called the spice of life, is there not danger that we flavour our lives or character too much with these spices so that the simple food so necessary to sustain life becomes to a degree hurtful, losing the nutritious quality which the plain food would give us? —Zion's Convert ITEMS FROM MESA, ARIZONA: I would like to pen a few lines in regard to our condition and prospects in this far off, sun-kissed Jand.... The Mesa society has a hall which the sisters have reason to feel proud of. It was built by the united efforts of our society with some backing from our good brethren. It is built of brick and neatly finished and furnished.... I can say with pride that our society has filled its mission faithfully in caring for the sick in our midst, frequently hiring experienced nurses to care for those who were not able to help themselves, and also assisting those faithful sisters in the Indian Mission. —S. M. Pomeroy
SOMETIME WE'LL MEET AGAIN
You'll greet me as of old, dear, And I'll remember you, Your presence shall uplift and cheer The heart that's ever true, And though the world is cold, dear, The tie which binds us two, Shall stronger grow each year And link my soul to you. —E. L. G. WOMEN AND HAPPINESS: Now I have thought much on some women, who want positions and do not appreciate being a wife and mother.
Woman should make her home happy and beautify it, also take care of the little ones who are given unto us. We should meet together and have our minds enlarged, and become more intelligent.... Our duties are not inferior to man's, but our natures are different, and our missions are different. Do not women bear the souls of men? The highest mission that can be given. Is not her kingdom her home? To keep that home orderly and well requires as much intelligence as anyone can attain to. She is a helpmate to her husband, and all honor to her in her sphere. —L. D. Alder A TRIBUTE TO LUCY STONE: In the death of Lucy Stone all advocates and ardent workers for the enfranchisement of women must indeed feel they have lost a friend and fellow laborer, whose strength and individual effort were felt wherever her name was spoken.
Honor and praise to the heroine Lucy Stone, her name is a talisman of good. —E. B. W. Page 742 S a girl, breaking through the barriers of conventionality for women by taking a degree at the University of Mexico, and since, as a writer and a teacher, Senora Amalia de Castillo Ledon, fifty, has worked toward improving the lot of Mexico's women. For years she has projected the message that the best way for women to overcome low wages and legal discrimination is through political action. Now, chiefly as the result of her efforts, the new president, Adolfo Ruiz Cortines, has presented to the Mexican Congress a_ constitutional amendment designed to give the women of Mexico full citizenship, including the right to vote. R. LOUISE PEARCE, a researcher at Manhattan's Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, recently received a $10,000 prize and other honors from King Baudouin of Belgium, for her work in the Belgian Congo in treating African sleeping sickness with the drug tryparsamide. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs. Ellen Peterson, ninety-nine, Logan, Utah, and Mrs. Lydia Ann Butterworth Cole, ninety-two, of Salt Lake City. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ECENTLY, Utah has had many distinguished women visitors.
Among them was Mrs. Nazli Tlabar, member of the National Assembly of the Turkish Parliament, Ankara, who is enthusiastic about women's suffrage and advancement in her country.
Another was Miss Aleyamma Mathew of New Delhi, India, brought to the United States with nineteen other foreign girls through the Ford Foundation.
Many girls now work outside the home, and India is striving for universal education. Miss Margaret Bondfield, former British Minister of Labor, and first woman ever to become a member of a British Cabinet, reports finding Utah people pleasant and friendly. HE figure we see on our telephone directories represents the "Genius of Electricity," a statue surmounting New York City's Telephone Building. The sculptress is Evelyn B. Longman, the first woman sculptor to be elected to full membership in the National Academy of Design. In the grounds of the Naval Research Laboratory stands a bust of 'Thomas A.
Edison by Miss Longman.
Five times lifesize, it honors Edison's ideas for setting up a government laboratory. Page 743 O-> EDITORIAL —~© 
VOL. 40 NOVEMBER 1953 NO. 11
After Mluch Sribulation Come the Blessings, 6OMAAN is of a few days, and full of trouble" (Job 14:1). So wrote Job who might certainly be called an authority on trouble. Yet with all his trials and afflictions, at the conclusion of the book of Job we read, "So the Lord blessed the latter end of Job more than his beginning" (Job 42:12). In the life of each person trials and tribulations come as a test, but if the hand of the Lord is acknowledged in all the trials with faith, the spirit increases in wisdom and understanding. Sometimes years afterwards one can look back on a sorrow or trial and, even with limited, mortal vision, see good that has come out of an affliction. One man's wife was struck with a dread and terrifying disease. He was courageous and devoted through it all. She had always been a Latter-day Saint, but he was not a member of the Church. 'The months went by and even the years. The wife's recovery was remarkable, but the anxiety remained. However into the heart of the husband, little by little, faith entered and grew and blossomed into a testimony of the gospel. Forgotten are the trials of that home in the gift of the knowledge of the Savior. A young couple who had been anxiously awaiting their first-born were overcome by the loss of their baby soon after birth. As the saddened months passed, there was Page 744 borne in upon the husband the fact that their marriage had not been for time and all eternity, and that their baby would not belong to them. With the birth of a second child, the father began to set his house in order that he and his wife might claim both their children forever. In the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord made this promise to his saints, "For after much tribulation come the blessings. Wherefore the day cometh that ye shall be crowned with much glory" (D. & C. 58:4). One blessing that may enter with tribulation is the closeness to the spirit of the Lord. A realization comes that the one person to whom one can turn is the Eternal Father, in the name of his Son. When days pass and the anxiety remains, advice applicable to any particular situation may be searched for in the scripture, "And again, be patient in tribulation until I come" (D. & C. 54:10), comforts the soul and brings fresh courage. If death strikes, one finds sure promises,. He that is faithful in tribulation, the reward of the same is greater in the kingdom of heaven" (D. & C. 58:2). Why tribulation is needed to refine the soul, the finite mind of man may not fully comprehend, but ever before. One is the example of the Savior who descended below all things that he might rise above all EDITORIAL things, and "though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered" (Hebrews 5:8). If the eternal plan were clear before man's eyes, perhaps he might even rejoice in tribulation, because 745
Know then that the soul that is anchored in a sure faith, will not rebel nor faint in the midst of tribulation, but ever forge a stronger chain for its anchor through submission, acceptance, and a looking forward to the eternal blessings to of the eternal blessings to follow follow tribulation. One who remains faithful. —M. C. S.