[Vol40 | November 1953 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: From Near and Far]
woman,  nearing  sixty,  with 
black  eyes  and  iron-gray  hair.  She 
surveyed  the  house  like  a  general 
anticipating  a  field  of  battle, 
clucked  her  tongue  in  disapproval, 
and  attacked  the  vital  spot,  the 
kitchen.  Steve  put  himself  at  her 
services,  and  the  headway  they  made 
was  phenomenal. 
Dinner,  plans  for  sleeping,  the 
routine  of  undressing  the  other  chil- 
dren, all  passed  as  in  a  dream.  Steve 
sat  with  the  baby  until  midnight 
while  Miss  Grain  slept,  only  awak- 
ening her  when  it  was  time  for 
medications  and  hypodermics. 
Watching  Phyllis  alone  was  an 
ordeal,  for  the  child  lay  inert,  her 
cheeks  too  bright.  It  seemed  as  if 
her  whole  strength  went  into 
breathing.  Gonviction  that  she  was 
going  to  die,  crept  upon  Steve. 
Self-blame  was  heavy  upon  him, 
and  Miss  Grain's  coming  at  mid- 
night to  relieve  him  was  a  blessed 
reprieve.  She  told  him  to  go  to 
bed,  and  Steve  went,  for  it  had  been 
a  long  twenty  hours  since  he  had 
awakened  at  the  Kettle  Greek  mine. 
He  went  to  sleep  instantly  on  the 
living  room  couch,  but  jumped  up 
in  alarm  several  hours  later,  when 
the  nurse  entered  the  room. 
"The  baby's  temperature  is  down 
this  morning,"  she  told  him.  "She 
is  tolerating  the  drugs,  and  if  her 
temperature  doesn't  go  too  high 
this  afternoon,  it  will  look  encour- 
aging. Why  don't  you  get  back  to 
your  work?" 
"I  will  if  you're  sure  it's  all  right," 
said  Steve,  relief  flooding  over  him. 
Nevertheless,  he  didn't  go  to 
work.  He  had  shaved,  showered, 
and  eaten  breakfast,  was  just  ready 
to  step  out  the  door  when  the 
telephone  rang.    It  was  J.  T. 
"Steve,  that  Kettle  Greek  deal  fell 
through,"  he  growled. 
"J.  T.,  I'm  sorry.  I  thought  it  was 
a  sure  thing.    I'll  be  right  down." 
"You  thoughtr  snorted  J.  T.  "As 
for  coming  back,  you  can  save  your- 
self the  bother.  I  counted  on  you 
to  put  that  deal  through.  I  knew 
you  could  do  it,  but  an  unreliable 
man  is  no  better  than  an  incom- 
petent one." 
Steve  had  been  on  the  verge  of 
pleading  his  case,  but  these  words 
stung  his  pride. 
"All  right,  J.  T.,  so  Fm  fired,"  he 
said  coldly  and  hung  up. 
He  sat  staring  at  the  telephone. 
The  bottom  had  dropped  out  of 
his  already  leaky  world.  What  was 
he  going  to  do  now,  in  a  strange 
town,  with  a  family  to  support,  a 
sick  baby,  and  no  job? 
"Why  didn't  you  tell  him  about 
the  baby?"  Miss  Grain  asked  behind 
him. 
Steve  jumped. 
"I  wasn't  eavesdropping,"  she 
hastened  to  add.  "I  couldn't  help 
hearing,  and  I  think  he  is  unfair." 
"I  don't  blame  J.  T.  That  would 
have  been  a  twenty  thousand  dollar 
profit,  and  it  is  gone.  I  can't  imag- 
ine  what  happened.    That   much 
(Continued  on  page  782)

From  The  Field 
Margaret  C.  Pickeiing,  General  Secretary-Treasurer 
All  material  submitted  for  publication  in  this  department  should  be  sent  through 
stake  and  mission  Relief  Society  presidents.  See  regulations  governing  the  submittal 
of  material  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  in  the  Magazine  for  April  1950,  page  278,  and 
the  Handbook  oi  Instiuctions,  page  123. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  ACTIVITIES 
Photograph  submitted  by  Hattie  B.  Maughan 
NEW    ENGLAND   MISSION,    CAMBRIDGE    (MASSACHUSETTS)    BRANCH 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  BAZAAR,  December  1952 
Left  to  right:  Elaine  L.  Jack,  Counselor;  Romaine  B.  Romney,  Counselor;  Leo- 
nora B.  Cox,  President;  Elsie  Ann  Unopulos,  Secretary;  Hattie  M.  Maughan,  President, 
New  England  Mission  Relief  Society. 
President  Hattie  B.  Maughan  reports  that  this  branch,  the  largest  in  the  mission, 
is  an  energetic  and  enthusiastic  group.  "We  are  delighted  with  the  vigor  and  en- 
thusiasm of  this  group,  composed  largely  of  young  mothers."  The  Cambridge  Branch, 
early  in  1953,  had  an  enrollment  of  forty  members,  an  increase  of  twenty-four  per 
cent  over  the  previous  year.  The  bazaar  was  a  successful  and  happy  occasion;  the 
displays  were  varied,  and  the  individual  articles  beautifully  made.  A  baked  goods  sale 
was  conducted,  and  a  chili  supper  was  served. 
Page  759

760 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1953 
Photograph  submitted  by  Arvilla  M.  Swindlehurst 
BEAVER  STAKE  (UTAH),  BEAVER  SECOND  WARD  VISITING 
TEACHERS  CONVENTION 
Seated  in  the  front  row,  left  to  right:  Arvilla  M.  Swindlehurst,  President,  Beaver 
Second  Ward  Relief  Society,  third  from  left;  Floral  Lee,  First  Counselor,  second  from 
left;  Darle  Smith,  Second  Counselor,  fourth  from  the  left;  Caroline  Smith,  Secretary- 
Treasurer,  fifth  from  the  left.