[Vol40 | November 1953 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Pilgrim Lure]
The  world,  tonight,  in  pilgrima[;e 
Goes  seeking  down  Judean  plains, 
Along  the  beaten,  dust-held  paths 
For  trace  of  angels'  lost  refrains. 
'Teace  on  earth!  Good  will  .  .  .  good  will!" 
Oasis  words  to  thirsting  men, 
Manna,  for  longing  no  bread  can  fill; 
The  echoes  of  echoes  surround  us  still. 
There  is  no  peace  in  Bethlehem, 
Or  elsewhere  in  this  restless  night 
Except  where  men's  hearts  build  the  scene 
Of  straw  and  stone,  of  light  on  light, 
A  young  boy's  clear  and  glowing  cheek 
Beside  the  doctors'  grizzled  beards, 
The  lost  words  when  he  rose  to  speak, 
The  hungry  soul  goes  back  to  seek. 
In  humble  minds  the  shepherds  kneel. 
In  winging  thoughts  the  wise  kings  ride; 
The  star  shines,  lighted  miracle. 
In  all  where  dreams  of  him  abide. 
Oh,  world,  not  faithful  and  not  wise. 
Yet  turning  ever  back  to  this. 
Pray  him  to  give  us  thoughts  to  rise 
On  caroled  ladders  to  the  skies. 
The  Cover:  "Madonna"  from  a  Painting  by  Feruzzi 
Frontispiece:  "Christ  in  the  Temple  With  the  Doctors"  from  a  Painting  by 
Hofmann,  a  Perry  Picture,  Copyright  1912 
Cover  Design  by  Evan  Jensen

Woman's  Influence 
President  D-^vid  O.  McKay 
[Address  Dcli\eicd  ;it  the  Aiiuiial  Ceiiernl  lleliet  Society  Couterence,  October  i,   r95 
A  
few  months  over  one  hun- 
dred and  eleven  years  ago, 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
met  with  the  newly  organized  Fe- 
male Relief  Society.  It  was  April 
28,  1842,  on  which  occasion  the 
Prophet  said: 
I  now  turn  the  key  in  your  behalf  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord,  and  this  Society 
shall  rejoice,  and  knowledge  and  intelh- 
gcnce  shall  flow  down  from  this  time 
henceforth.  This  is  the  beginning  of  better 
days  to  the  poor  and  needy,  who  shall  be 
made  to  rejoice  and  pour  forth  blessings 
on  your  heads. 
On  that  occasion  divuie  sanction 
was  bestowed  upon  the  Relief  So- 
ciety by  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord. 
No  wonder  you  have  wielded  and 
will  continue  to  wield  such  influ- 
ence in  the  Church  and  country. 
Today,  I  have  nothing  but  com- 
mendation in  my  heart  for  the  work 
of  the  Relief  Society  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  congratulate  the  members  of  the 
presidency  and  general  board  par- 
ticularly, and  you  presidencies  of 
stakes  and  wards  upon  the  increased 
enrollment  during  the  past  year. 
Nearly  8,000  new  members  have 
joined  the  ranks  to  render  service  to 
the  poor,  to  increase  testimonies,  as 
we  have  learned,  and  to  improve 
and  stabilize  our  homes. 
I  was  pleased  to  note  in  one  of 
your  reports  that  8,422  women  par- 
ticipated in  weekly  welfare  sewing 
and  work  meetings,  and  nearly  4,000 
took  part  in  sewing  at  sewing  cen- 
ters—a real  service  to  the  needy, 
preparing  the  necessary  clothing  and 
equipment  for  those  who  need  your 
Page  790 
assistance.  This  service  was  rendered 
by  12,358  women,  and  that  is  only 
one  project.  Nearly  9,000  were  active 
in  other  projects,  or  a  total  of  21,343 
women  rendering  voluntary  service 
for  the  good  of  others.  "Inasmuch 
as  ye  have  done  it  unto  the  least  of 
these,  my  brethren,  ye  have  done  it 
unto  me." 
When  I  think  of  the  influence 
you  are  exerting  upon  the  lives  of 
your  fellow  sisters  in  the  various  Re- 
hef  Society  meetings  throughout 
the  Church,  my  heart  is  filled  with 
gratitude,  and  I  look  upon  you  as 
benefactors  in  very  deed  to  human- 
kind. Your  lessons  in  social  science, 
in  literature,  in  nursing,  in  The 
Book  of  Mormon,  so  frequently 
quoted  this  afternoon— who  can 
estimate  the  good,  the  cultural  in- 
fluence, of  these  teachings  upon  the 
Church  and  upon  the  communities! 
There  is  not  a  remote  hamlet  in  any 
part  of  this  Church  but  is  benefited 
by  the  lifting  influence  of  the  Relief 
Society.  Anybody  who  travels  from 
stake  to  stake,  or  from  mission  to 
mission  is  impressed  with  this  uni- 
versal uplift.  Anybody  who  goes 
into  the  homes  in  any  part  of  the 
Church,  if  he  opens  his  eyes,  will 
see  the  beneficial  effects,  probably 
in  better  housekeeping,  in  neatness 
of  dress,  in  the  tone  of  conversation, 
in  care  and  training  of  children,  etc. 
Truly  when  the  Prophet  turned 
the  key  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  he 
bestowed  a  power  upon  that  organ- 
ization which  has  wielded  an  influ- 
ence beyond  comprehension  by  anv 
individual.

WOMAN'S  INFLUENCE 
791 
Sister  Spafford  nnd  your  coun- 
selors, members  of  the  general 
board,  you  presidents  of  Relief  So-
