[Vol40 | November 1953 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Theology The Record of]
Zeniff made hasty preparations, had the women and children hidden in the wilderness, and equipped all men who were able to bear arms, both old and young. The Nephites, fighting in the strength of the Lord to protect their wives and children and property, drove the Lamanites out of their Jands. Those Lamanites were a wild and ferocious people, who were filled with a spirit of hatred and revenge.
From childhood they had been taught that the Nephite forefathers had wronged their forefathers, that Nephi had assumed authority over them, and had stolen their records.
This spirit of envy and hatred was a result of training from infancy. The contrast is striking between the two people. The Nephites fought for that which was just and true, and knew the Lord was on their side. The -Lamanites were LESSON DEPARTMENT fighting with the spirit of hatred and murder, seeking to make others suffer that they might have revenge. Noah Becomes King As a result of the battle, the Nephites were able again to settle down to their peaceful pursuits, to tend their flocks, and to till the ground. It was about 160 Bc. When Zeniff found it necessary, because of old age, to confer the kingdom upon his son, Noah. But Noah who received the kingdom, did not walk in the ways of his father and was not fitted to rule a people. He dismissed his father's righteous priests and installed wicked men in the priestly offices.
Noah and these wicked priests refused to obey Nephite law, which required that one man should have but one wife and that he should not have any concubines. For the purpose of satisfying their lustful desires, they had many wives and concubines; and they felt that the people should support them in luxury, which they did by paying a fifth tax of their gold, silver, ziff, copper, brass, iron, fatlings, and grain. King Noah built many elegant and spacious buildings. He planted vineyards throughout the land and his people became wine-bibbers.
Abinadi the Prophet Cries Repentance One man named Abinadi went forth among the people calling them to repentance, saying, | Behold, thus saith the Lord... Go forth, and say unto this people... Wo be unto this people, for I have seen their abominations, and their wickedness, and their whoredoms; and except they repent 767 I will visit them in mine anger. I will deliver them into the hands of their enemies; yea, and they shall be brought into bondage; and they shall be afflicted by the hand of their enemies.... And none shall deliver them, except it be the Lord the Almighty God. Yea, and it shall come to pass that when they shall cry unto me I will be slow to hear their cries.... And except they repent in sackcloth and ashes, and cry mightily to the Lord their God, I will not hear their prayers, neither will I deliver them out of their afflictions (Mosiah 11:20 ff.).
Noah was wroth and said: Who is Abinadi, that I and my people should be judged of him, or who is the Lord, that shall bring upon my people such great affliction? (Mosiah 11:27). He planned to take the life of Abinadi, but the Lord delivered him out of their hands. Two years later Abinadi returned in disguise to warn the people again according to the commandment of the Lord.
This time he was more specific as he prophesied, saying: It shall come to pass that this generation, because of their iniquities, shall be brought into bondage, and shall be smitten on the cheek; yea, and shall be driven by men, and shall be slain; and the vultures of the air, and the dogs, yea, and the wild beasts, shall devour their flesh. And it shall come to pass that the life of King Noah shall be valued even as a garment in a hot furnace.... I will smite this my people with sore afflictions, yea, with famine and pestilence. I will cause that they shall have burdens lashed upon their backs; and they shall be driven before like a dumb ass (Mosiah 12:2 ff.). The people were angry, and they delivered Abinadi to King Noah, who had him committed to prison, and finally brought before him and the priests for questioning.
Abinadi withstood them in all their questions, and confounded them in their 768 |  words. One of the priests, in order to trick him, asked him to explain a quotation from the scriptures.
Abinadi responded: Are you priests, and pretend to teach this people, and to understand the spirit of prophesying, and yet desire to know of me what these things mean?... Ye have not applied your hearts to understanding; therefore, ye have not been wise. Therefore, what teach ye this people? (Mosiah 12:25, 27). He then reproved them bitterly for not keeping the law of Moses, for setting their hearts on riches, and following harlots. After Abinadi rebuked the king and priests, Noah said, "Away with this fellow, and slay him" (Mosiah 13:1).
Abinadi withstood them, however, and said, Touch me not, for God shall smite you if ye lay your hands upon me, for I have not delivered the message which the Lord sent me to deliver (Mosiah 13:3). The people dared not lay hands on Abinadi for the Spirit of the Lord was upon him and his face shone with luster.
Abinadi finished his message. He read to them the ten commandments, asserting that the people had not lived them, and gave them another prophecy, saying: But this much I tell you, what you do with me, after this, shall be as a type and a shadow of things which are to come (Mosiah 13:10).
Abinadi then told them that the Lord had given the children of Israel the law of Moses, "A law of performances and of ordinances to keep them in remembrance of God and their duty towards him" (Mosiah 13:30) but he warned that without the atonement people "must unavoidably perish, notwithstanding the law of Moses." He quoted Isaiah (compare Isaiah chapter 53) to establish the fact that Isaiah had prophesied that God himself should come down and redeem his people.
Abinadi delivered a powerful and wonderful discourse. He said that the Son would offer his life to expiate the sins of all men who would repent, and would redeem all mankind from the grave, and he taught of the resurrection and judgment. Abinadi Burned at the Stake When Abinadi finished his sayings, Noah commanded the priests to have Abinadi slain.
After three days in prison they bound him and scourged his skin with faggots.
Amidst the pain of burning at the stake, he made his final prophecy, saying:... Ye shall be taken by the hand of your enemies, and then ye shall suffer, as I suffer, the pains of death by fire (Mosiah 17:18).
Abinadi sealed the truth of his words by his death. King Noah Slain by Fire Contention crept among the people, some being for and some against King Noah.
Gideon fought against King Noah, who climbed the tower to save his life, but Gideon pursued him. However, seeing the Lamanites coming to battle against them, King Noah pleaded for his life, and Gideon spared him. King Noah commanded his people to rush for safety into the wilderness with their women and children. 'The Lamanites soon over- LESSON DEPARTMENT took them and began to slay them. As a precautionary measure, and as a means of saving his life, Noah commanded the men to desert their wives and children and to flee.
Those who refused to flee and remained with their wives and children had their fair daughters plead with the Lamanites to spare them. The hearts of the Lamanites were softened and they agreed to let them live in Lehi-Nephi if they would deliver up King Noah and forfeit one half of all their property. Limhi, -a son of King Noah, was among this captive group. He did not wish his father to be destroyed, but Gideon and his men secretly searched for King Noah.
They found his followers, except for the wicked priests who had escaped by fleeing, but they had already burned Noah, thus fulfilling the prophecy of Abinadi. Limhi Made a Tributary King These Nephites now returned to the land of Lehi-Nephi with Gideon.
Limhi had the kingdom conferred upon him by his captive people. He covenanted with the Lamanites to pay one half of all they possessed as tribute. The Nephites had peace for a period of two years at the expiration of which time the wicked priests of King Noah spirited away twenty-four of the daughters of the Lamanites. The king of the Lamanites, supposing the Nephites to have committed the crime, sought revenge of Limhi and his people. In the battle which 769 followed the king of the Lamanites was injured and left behind. 'The Nephites cared for his wounds and took him to Limhi.
Soon the misunderstanding was cleared up. 'The Lamanite king pacified his people, and the Nephites returned to their land.
Subsequently the Nephites fought three battles with the Lamanites in an effort to free themselves from captivity, but each time they failed.
