[Vol40 | November 1953 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Macaulay]

| cman Literature of England Lesson 37—Thomas Babington Macaulay (1800-1859) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: The Literature of England, II, Woods, Watt, Anderson, PP- 418, 419, 427-444) For Tuesday, February 16, 1954
Objective: To relate Macaulay's theory and practice of literature and history to the Victorian period for which he spoke. T some time or another all reading adults should have asked — themselves the questions, "What is history?
What good is it? I never liked it, yet I had to take it in school. Why?" Or, "T like history, even though it is just some man's opinion, but can I accept someone's opinion or editing of facts as the whole, fair truth?"
Basic questions, these, particularly to a "record-keeping people" as are the Latter-day Saints. Can we believe, with Mme. Bertin, that "There is nothing new except what is forgotten?" Or should we agree with Napoleon who said, "All history is a lie," and then exemplified his definition by sitting in his island exile and deliberately falsifying the facts of his life to make his past appear as he would like it to have happened? How terrifying would be the thought that no written account of the past can be trusted, because all history constantly is being revised to flatter the present regime and to prove that it can commit no error or evil!
When we come to realize how rampant are systematic perversions of history in our own day, we turn with a larger gratitude to such writers as Macaulay, the most popular historian of the Victorian age, and one of the great historians in the English tradition. Life Sketch Thomas Macaulay was born in 1800, the son of a country minister who was as conservative in his Tory political views as he was devout in his religion. The senior Macaulay risked his entire future security by campaigning vigorously against slavery in the British colonies and gave large sums of money to the cause, yet at the same time he gave full support to the home government in its refusal to improve in any way the unhuman lot of English workingmen.
Long before the young Macaulay 7714 -  became a Member of Parliament at thirty, he had changed from Tory to Whig (Conservative to Liberal).
Throughout his life he stated his belief in new laws which gave the new commercial classes more control of their country, stating his views so vehemently that at the time of his death he was the most powerful spokesman for Victorian progress. His views dominated British policy until the first World War. At the age of four Macaulay demonstrated unusual mental powers, and before his seventh birthday he had written a compendium of universal history, a long narrative poem, and numerous hymns. At Cambridge he was awarded prizes for his outstanding record, and in his twenty-fifth year his first published essay on Milton appeared in the Edinburgh Review.
Immediately he was famous, and for the next twenty years he was the most popular contributor to this influential periodical. In 1834 he was called to be a member of the Supreme Council of India for four years.
There he did outstanding work in prison reform and in establishing the British system of education. A glimpse into his study habits while there reveals that in three years he read The Illiad and Odyssey, Virgil, Horace, Tasso, Don Quixote, Gibbon's Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire, Mill's India, all the seventy volumes of Voltaire, Sismondi's History of France, and seven thick folios of Biographia Britannica.
Later in life Macaulay stated that he could repeat all of Paradise Lost and Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress from memory.
Thus we can realize more fully that his being described by his admiring friends as "a book in breeches" was not a chance phrase.
From his annual salary in India of ten thousand pounds, (about $50,000 then) he had saved enough that, with an additional ten thousand inherited from an uncle, he was financially independent for life at thirty-eight.
Returning to England, he was re-elected to Parliament, then to the office of Minister of War.
When the Whigs were forced out of office in 1842, he retired from public life to devote all his energies to his life-long interest: the writing of a history of England in the late 18th century.
This was Macaulay's major achievement. His history remains one of the most readable accounts of English history ~ ever written. Let us proceed to discuss these three phases of Macaulay: his style, his theory and practice of historical writing, and his value as an accepted representative of Victorianism. 1. Macaulay's Style Throughout today's schools the cry (by the teachers, of course) is almost universal that our students cannot express themselves clearly. Yet for generations in the excellent English schools "every schoolboy" (a phrase made famous by Macaulay) was trained for years in writing clean, direct sentences, tight, guided paragraphs, with the writings of Macaulay as the model. His most characteristic construction is the balanced sentence identified by the use of but, yet, or a semicolon. 'The following examples are from the first three pages of his "Essay on History" (text, pp. 429, 431): LESSON DEPARTMENT A perfect historian must possess an imagination sufficiently powerful to make his narrative affecting and picturesque. Yet he must control it... Absoluteae [Herodotus] has written something better perhaps than the best history; but he ' has not written a good history; he is, from the first to the last chapter, an inventor No picture... And no history, can present us with the whole truth; but those are the best pictures and the best histories which exhibit such parts of the truth as most nearly produce the effect of the whole. For his ability to dramatize a person we must quote from his essay on Boswell, the immortal biographer of 'Samuel Johnson.
Consider how 'much more intimately you know Boswell after reading the following: [Some] men attained literary eminence in spite of their weaknesses.
Boswell attained it by reason of his weaknesses. If he had not been a great fool, he would not have been a great writer. Without _all the qualities which made him the jest and the torment of those among whom he lived, without the officiousness, the inquisitiveness, the effrontery, the toad-eating, the insensibility to all reproof, he never could have produced so excellent a book,. He was... An unsafe companion who never scrupled to repay the most liberal hospitality by the basest violation of confidence... And because he was all this, he has, in an important department of literature, immeasureably _ surpassed such writers as Tacitus, Clarendon,' Alfiery, and his own idol Johnson. How better can one know seventeenth century London than to read Macaulay? The houses were not numbered.
There would indeed have been little advantage in numbering them; for of the coachmen, chairmen, porters, and errand boys of London, a very small proportion could 775 read. It was necessary to use marks which the most ignorant could understand. 'The shops were therefore distinguished by painted or sculptured signs, which gave a gay and grotesque aspect to the street.... The walk from Charing Cross to Whitechapel lay through an endless succession of Saracen's heads, Royal Oaks, Blue Bears and Golden Lambs.
When the evening closed in, the difficulty and danger of walking about London became serious indeed. The garret windows were opened, and pails were emptied, with little regard to those who were passing below. Falls, bruises, and broken bones were of constant occurrence. For, till the last year of the reign of Charles the Second, most of the streets were left in profound darkness.
Thieves and robbers plied their trade with impunity: yet they were hardly so terrible to peaceable citizens as another class of ruffians. It was a favourite amusement of dissolute young gentlemen to swagger by night about the town, breaking windows, upsetting sedans, beating quiet men, and offering rude caresses to pretty womCH). 2.
Theory and Practice of Historical Writing As well as demonstrating the logical precision of his words and thoughts, the above excerpts reveal Macaulay's remarkable ability to narrate the realities of the past until history becomes exciting and alive.
This zestful style of writing had never before been used in English history; few have employed it with such skill since. And by writing this new type of history, Macaulay merely applied the principles of historical writing which he praised in his Essay on History some twenty years earlier. (See text, pp. 428-439. ) The modern historians, says Macaulay, excel the ancients in realism, but they have been "seduced from truth by reason."
Instead of looking at facts impartially, pre-eminently 

 —NOVEMBER 1953 they have slanted the facts to prove some favorite thesis or bias which possesses the author. Furthermore, the moderns have shown an unfortunate contempt for minute bio- ~ graphical detail and for the skills of narration (page 434). How is one to decide whether a fact is important? Macaulay writes: No past event has any intrinsic importance. The knowledge of it is valuable only as it leads us to form just calculations with respect to the future (text, page 535)- Macaulay says that, to tell the true history, the writer must know the average man, because in the average man's home the true, quiet revolution is born before ever a shot is fired. He points to Sir Walter Scott as having usurped the tools of the historical romance from history, and that, before great histories can be written, the technique of the novelist and the historian must once again be blended into one. Both the imagination and the reason must be employed. Then, Macaulay prophesied that the history book would be written which would cause the circulating library to be mobbed while the latest novel would lie uncut. How exactingly Macaulay worked out the fulfillment of his own prediction! Macaulay, Representative Victorian It is self-evident that Macaulay wrote what many Englishmen of his day believed. His early poetic work Lays of Ancient Rome sold more than 100,000 copies, his history was almost fabulously popular, and, for more than twenty years, his writings dominated the influential A Perry Picture—Copyright 1904 THOMAS BABINGTON MACAULAY Edinburgh Review. We might well ask for an explanation of his appeal. The values of his style have already been discussed. A related virtue was his strong belief in order, and system, and thoroughness. Previous to writing his history he spent almost a decade reading letters, journals, minutes. His diligence in digging out facts was tremendous; it made possible the realistic, authoritative tone of his writings. He said that sometimes he read as many as twenty books, that he might write one accurate sentence. When he could find no accurate population figures for English villages in the seventh century, he spent years in digging out the actual statistics, yet his findings were stated in one modest paragraph in the history.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Even more important than his diligence was his ability to sketch the psychology of a character until he seemed real and immediate; he could also attain this same living reality in re-creating scenes and events based on historical fact. For changing, uncertain Victorians his positive, forthright, even belligerent statements had a solid appeal. Once he had proved a fact to himself, Macaulay proclaimed it with fierce certainty, never doubting, never accepting the possibility that anyone else was right. As Lord Melbourne said, "Would that I could be as certain of one thing as Macaulay is of everything." He was completely at ease in England, the promised land, and believed passionately in her destiny of inevitable material progress. Rarely interested in intangibles, Macaulay likewise held little esteem for any person or achievement not English. A liberal Whig who believed in distributing more wealth and power to the middle classes, he nevertheless still distrusted democracy as practiced in America; for him Jefferson's contribution to civilization 777 was a negative, almost a dangerous one The keystone of his life, his history, his literary standards and his age might well be found in his statement, "The history of our country during the past one hundred sixty years is eminently the history of physical, moral, and of intellectual improvement." Such a statement, fearlessly uttered with no qualifications, might also prove to be the keystone of his popularity with his contemporary Victorian world. -Note to Class Leaders A special assignment might be given to a class member in regard to "Lays of Ancient Rome" which is not in the text. Questions for Discussion 1. In-writing his History of England, what did Macaulay hope to prove to his contemporaries? 2. Was Macaulay for or against the idea of progress? 3. Why may Macaulay's history be described accurately as "'literary''? 4. To what extent is the writing of history a science (or objective)? An art (or subjective)?