[Vol40 | November 1953 | Sequence: 35 | Category: Home | Title: Homemaking in Action | Author: Ouida Johns Pedersen]
7.  "A  Message  in  Action,"  a  playlet  based  on  the  story  "A  Message  in  Action," 
by  Maggie  Tolman  Porter,  published  in  The  Relief  Society  Magazine,  July  1952,  page 
450,  arranged  by  Ethel  W.  Brothers.     Visiting  teaching  principles  put  into  action. 
Characters:  Six  women,  three  children  —  Time:   15-20  minutes. 
8.  "Charity  Never  Faileth,"  by  Marion  Clegg.  A  clever  playlet  dealing  with  the 
visiting  teaching  program. 
Characters:  Five  —  Time:  Approximately  25  minutes. 
General  Relief  Society  Program: 
1.  "Spirit  of  Rehef  Society,"  by  lone  Spencer  Bennion.  Pageant  portraying  the 
fact  that  the  teachings  of  the  Savior  are  exemplified  in  the  spirit  of  Relief  Society. 
Characters:  Reader  and  a  number  of  persons  who  speak  from  audience. 
Time:  Approximately  20  minutes. 
2.  "Ma  Learned  That  in  Relief  Society,"  by  Thora  Page.  Humorous  skit  in  three 
scenes,  dealing  with  the  Relief  Society  program. 
Characters:  Seven  —  Time:  Approximately  15-20  minutes. 
3.  "If  You  Do  It  Unto  the  Least  of  These,"  by  Ida  R.  Aldredge.  Published  in 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine,  1935,  page  30.  Playlet  dealing  with  various  aspects  of 
the  Relief  Society  program. 
Characters:  Five  —  Time:  Approximately  20  minutes.

NOTES  TO  THE  FIELD  747 
4.  "All  in  a  Day,"  by  Rosannah  C.  Irvine.  Published  in  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine,  1939,  page  252.  Humorous  play,  dealing  with  the  Relief  Society  program 
and  its  influence  upon  the  newly  married  woman. 
Characters:  Five  —  Time:  Approximately  30  minutes. 
5.  "Rejuvenation  of  Adehne,"  by  Edna  May  Irvine.  Humorous  skit  in  one  act, 
three  scenes.    How  Relief  Society  transformed  the  lives  of  two  "stay-at-home"  women. 
Characters:  Four  adults  and  one  child  —  Time:  Approximately  25-30  minutes. 
6.  "Results,"  by  Dorothy  Clapp  Robinson.  Published  in  The  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine, 1937,  page  165.  One-act  playlet  deahng  with  the  diversity  of  the  Relief  Society 
program. 
Characters:  Fourteen  Relief  Society  women  —  Time:  Approximately  20  minutes. 
7.  "Relief  Society — Why?"  by  Esther  Olson.  Humorous  playlet  about  two  women 
who  felt  they  could  not  leave  their  housework  to  attend  Relief  Society.  Good  mem- 
bership play. 
Characters:  Five  —  Time:  Approximately  30  minutes. 
8.  "This  Could  Be  You,"  by  Barbara  Olson  Gabbitas.  Features  of  Relief  Society 
program  portrayed  in  three  unrelated  scenes.     Each  episode  could  be  used  separately. 
Characters:  Three  in  first  scene,  two  in  each  of  the  others. 
Time:  Approximately  20-25  minutes  complete. 
9.  "Birthday  Program,"  by  Elizabeth  Hill  Boswell.  Dramatic  program  written  in 
blank  verse  dealing  with  general  Relief  Society  program. 
Characters:  Two  —  Time:  Approximately  25  minutes. 
10.  A  group  of  suggestions  for  very  short  programs,  based  chiefly  on  material  pub- 
lished in  The  Relief  Society  Magazine  upon  the  following  subjects: 
Family  Hour  —  Music  —  Christmas 
The  Home  (Relating  to  the  work  meeting  program) 
Freedom  (Relating  to  the  social  science  course) 
The  Written  Word  (Relating  to  the  literature  course) 
Home  and  Family  Hour: 
1.  "We  Found  the  Way,"  by  Mary  G.  Judd.     A  dramatization  in   two  scenes 
dealing  with  family  life  and  contrasting  the  atmosphere  and  attitudes  in  two  homes. 
Characters:  Seven  in  each  scene  —  Time:  Approximately  10  minutes. 
Theological  —  Book  of  Mormon  and  Bible: 
1.  "Know  the  Scriptures."  Theological  playlet  dealing  with  a  New  Testament 
reading  project. 
Characters:  Parents  and  four  children  —  Time:  Approximately  10  minutes. 
2.  "Book  of  Mormon  Reading  Project."  Program  dealing  with  The  Book  of 
Mormon  reading  project  with  scriptural  quotations,  from  II  Nephi  and  Alma  34. 
Characters:  Four  —  Time:  Approximately  15  minutes. 
3.  "We  Walk  Today  Where  Jesus  Walked."  A  religious  program  dealing  with 
the  life  of  the  Savior  with  appropriate  music.  To  be  presented  by  a  reader  or  several 
readers  representing  various  wards  of  the  stake. 
Time:  Approximately  30  minutes. 
4.  "Other  Sheep  I  Have."  A  pageant  portraying  the  coming  forth  of  The  Book 
of  Mormon  and  a  resume  of  its  contents.  Musical  numbers  interspersed.  Narrative 
continuity  is  given  by  a  reader.  A  number  of  tableaux,  involving  important  characters 
are  suggested  by  author,  i.e.:  Joseph  Smith,  Lehi  and  family,  Nephi,  Mary  and  infant, 
Columbus,  Washington,  Mosiah,  Jared,  Coriantumr,  Abinadi,  Alma,  etc. 
Characters:  Reader  —  Time:  Approximately  one  hour. 
Organization  of  Relief  Society: 
1.  "A  Great  Day  for  Women."  A  re-enactment  of  the  organization  of  Relief 
Society  written  in  the  spirit  of  the  occasion,  historically  accurate,  although  not  all 
statements  are  direct  quotations.

748  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1953 
Characters:  Eight  who  speak,  thirteen  who  represent  others  present. 
Time:  Approximately  25-30  minutes. 
2.  "Rehef  Society  Memory  Book,"  script  by  Virginia  Driggs  Clark.  Additions 
by  Marianne  C.  Sharp  and  Alberta  H.  Christensen. 
Characters:  Reader  and  nine  women  from  album  representing  the  different  general 
Relief  Society  presidents. 
Time:  Approximately  30  minutes. 
3.  "On  Your  Birthday,"  by  Alberta  H.  Christensen.  A  very  short  playlet  in  one 
scene  dealing  with  the  organization  of  Relief  Society  in  a  generalized  way. 
Characters:  Three  —  Time:  Approximately  10  minutes. 
Literature: 
1.  "An  Awakening,"  by  Mona  Wilcox  Cannon.  Published  in  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine,  1936,  page  28.  Playlet  promoting  interest  in  the  literature  course  of 
Relief  Society. 
Characters:  Four  —  Time:  Approximately  15  minutes. 
General: 
1.  "The  Light  Within,"  by  Blanche  Kendall  McKey.  PubHshed  in  The  ReJiei 
Society  Magazine,  1932,  page  216.  Very  short  playlet.  The  effectiveness  of  this 
simple  demonstration  will  depend  upon  the  "earnestness  and  spirituality  of  the  actors." 
Characters:  Five  and  other  persons  to  represent  a  Relief  Society  meeting. 
Time:  Approximately  15  minutes. 
Mothers  and  Motherhood: 
1.  "Universal  Mother,"  by  Mary  Grant  Judd.  Published  in  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine,  1934,  page  259.  Dramatization  for  use  on  Mother's  Day  program. 
Time:  Approximately  10-15  minutes. 
2.  "Of  What  Is  Woman?"  by  Clare  P.  Hansen.  Short  pageant  dealing  with  the 
virtues  of  womankind  and  specifically  with  Relief  Society,  who  is  personified  as  ex- 
emplifying these  virtues. 
Characters:  Reader  and  four  women  who  briefly  characterize  educational  program. 
Appropriate  tableau  groupings  suggested. 
3.  "Mothers  of  Our  Nation,"  by  Mabel  S.  Harmer.  Published  in  The  Relief 
Society  Magazine,  1935,  page  308.  A  pageant  for  Mother's  Day,  featuring  a  reader 
and  costumed  tableaux  for  the  following  scenes:  Pilgrim,  Washington's  farewell  to  his 
mother.  Pioneer,  Civil  War,  World  War,  with  the  minuet  dance  by  small  group  or 
single  couple  and  a  finale  which  is  a  general  tribute  to  mother. 
Characters:  Reader  and  tableau  groups  —  Time:  15-20  minutes. 
Miscellaneous: 
1.  "A  Typical  Case,"  by  Edna  May  Irvine.  Published  in  The  Relief  Society  Maga- 
zine, 1936,  page  167.  Play  in  three  scenes,  depicting  the  life  in  home  of  a  Relief  So- 
ciety president. 
Characters:  Eight,  including  five  children  —  Time:  Approximately  30  minutes. 
2.  "Let's  Get  on  the  Relief  Society  Train."  A  hvely  program  with  the  object  of 
increasing  Relief  Society  membership  and  suitable  for  opening  social. 
Characters:  Twelve  board  members  —  Time:  Variable,  depending  on  whether  it 
is  used  for  a  meeting  or  social. 
3.  "Pioneer  Portrait,"  by  Mary  G.  Judd.  Dramatization  from  diary  of  a  Relief 
Society  woman.    Planned  for  radio  presentation. 
Time:  Approximately  20  minutes.