[Vol35 | November 1948 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Preface to Winter]

PREFACE TO: WINTER Jessie M. Robinson Thready weeds in buff and brown, Brittle, silvered grasses, Milkweed pods of fairy down; A crying blackbird passes. Meadows rimed with pearls of white, And oaten stubble trembling Like a wave of copper light; Honk of geese assembling. Sulphur sunset burning low Past boughs of late. November; Indian summer's warm red-gold Is now a graying ember. Dolls Do Not Grow Old Dorothy J]. Roberts OU lucky ladies who are mothers of little girls know that dolls do not grow old. Mari Etta has told you so, with proper six-year-old emphasis, and she will not surrender her dolls to the gaping mouth of the trash can. Many of these, to you, wan and bedraggled beauties of last year or years before, may be glamorized for next Christmas and reside, unashamed, beneath the lighted tree with the newest doll. Spirit the retrievable ones away in the weeks before the great day and in solitary moments try transforming them into pert and new someones. Begin by examining the dolls in shops and noting the dressed-up beauties in magazines, for ideas on hair arrangements and costuming. Also, keep in mind the beloved little heroines of fairyland and fable and Page 752 those well-loved ladies who lived long ago or who are still with us, and don't» forget the period and nationality dolls, Dutch, French, and Oriental. Now examine your doll's hair. If it is still present in any quantity, you can comb it carefully, separate it into locks, and put it up in bobbypin curls and leave it pinned up until the day. Or you can rebraid it and tie it with fresh ribbons. If the hair is scanty and the pate looks bare, switches of gleaming locks may be purchased at the dime stores to transform the plainest miss into a glamorous heroine. One hairpiece, cut in half, should be enough for two wigs. Some stores carry bright, short curls, at very little cost. With artificial hair, plus glue, and the help of a hat, you can arrange a new wig for the doll. The hat may have to be sewed on with the wig, but a young mistress will be pleased, nevertheless. To brighten up the pale doll, wash her carefully. With a damp cloth, then with a steady hand, repaint the lips with red nail polish. Paint the finger and toenails red also. Dutch Hat Fold of Material Seam DOLLS DO NOT GROW OLD Faded eyebrows may be touched with a bit of brown oil paint. Clothes may not make the man, but a doll is different. Since her small bisque body claims no soul (except to her little mother), habiliments become her chief charm. So let her have as many and as elegant costumes as your purse and inclination allow. Gather — bright, clear-colored pieces of materials— cottons, satins, velvets, laces, braid —from scrap bags or remnants from dime stores. Basque waists and bouffant skirts are easily made and are loved by children, being a refreshing escape to elegance from their own simplified wardrobes. Ribbon bows placed here and there, a touch of gay embroidery, or a flower, will make of these clothes much prettier ones than can be purchased at average prices. If you have no time for sewing doll clothes yourself, perhaps a cousin or a young neighbor 753 would like to take over the project for a fair sum. Hats can be made of scraps of felt or velvet or braid (sewed on a paper pattern in rounds for a beautiful, floppy hat). Dutch hats, made of one piece of felt, folded and stitched down one side, are pretty and suitable to sew on to the new hair. You will find that making a doll's trousseau is a fascinating little labor of love and one both you and the daughters will remember long after they are no longer little girls.