[Vol35 | November 1948 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Margery S. Stewart]

Seasoning Margery S. Stewart snowy plains of Wyoming. John Fenton leaned against the window, staring unseeingly at the endless wastes, How could a returning missionary not look like a returning missionary? He fished in his pocket for Susan's letter, He held it in his hands but did not read it. He knew it off by heart, f train fled through the Darling, I've planned this Thanksgiving It has to be I've asked all my friends from school and some of yours, don't come home ail stirred up about things.°.; I to love you and some of them just don't understand. John grinned at Clara Wells, who sat opposite him. She was returning from her mission in the Eastern States, "How do returning missionaries look, Sister Wells?" he demanded. Clara Wells looked at the letter in his hand. "So that's what she said. Well... How do I look?" "Nice," John said thoughtfully, "and sort of shining." "Do I?" She nodded her smooth brown head. "Well, I've had enough experiences in the last two years to keep me shining for a lifetime." She looked at him critically, "You look very nice, too, tall and dark, and purposeful... And something else, indefinable. Don't let the world rob you of it." € porter came through calling, "Rock springs... Rock Springs, five minutes 'Home?" Clara's voice wavered. On her coat. Have to look after Maury McClaughlin from now on." "Maury McClaughlin!" John demanded. "That wild Scot?" Clara laughed. "{ know she's been a handful. But it's that impulsive Curiosity of hers. She couldn't help getting lost in Chicago. After all the things you were up against in the British Mission, you ought to be able to handle a seventeen-year-old youngster," "But she's not just any youngster," John stated flatly. "I can't do it." "You have to do it," Clara pointed out reasonably. "You're the only missionary left, It's just a few hours to Salt Lake. Her aunt will be at the station." The door was flung open at the back of the car. "Sister Wells," a Clear voice shrieked. "Your station it is," John pulled his neck into his collar as the quick footsteps rushed down the aisle, Maury McClaughlin brushed past him and flung herself into Clara's arms. "Oh, it's lost I will be with you gone! Not to see your bonny face or hear your voice!" Maury's own voice rose despairingly. JOHN Fenton's mouth twitched as he watched the girl burrow her face into Clara's shoulder. Maury's bright red hair shimmered like silk. She was g tall girl and very slender. She lifted her face. SEASONING Her eyes were a deep, gemlike blue. She owned the freckled skin of the redhaired. Her gestures were dramatic and sincere and terribly young. "You've been an me, that you have!" Maury possessed a radiance that made John feel he was in the path of a prairie fire, Clara kissed Maury. "You have a big job ahead of you, dear, making a home and a Place for your mother and father and your small sisters. But you can do it. You'll have them with you in no time at all. I only wish I could be close enough to help." "But you've been so good to me!" Maury wailed. "And I've been a grief to you. That I have.": "Nonsense." Clara reached for her bags. "Now you stay close to Elder Fenton and don't leave his side at any station." "Aye, that I won't," vowed Maury Passionately. She turned to John. "I promise with my hand on my heart not to give you a moment's worry." John bit back the chuckle. He knotted his brows firmly. "You'll not be getting off at any station. Own sister to Understand?" She asked reluctantly, "Not even if I see an Indian?" "No," said John, "and please don't scream when you see another cowboy. It's... It's embarrassing." They stood on the train platform and watched Clara step into the circle of joyous friends and relatives, who hugged her furiously one after another, their faces wet with tears. Clara waved her hand at John and Maury as the train pulled away. He put her arms around an elderly, 739 gray-haired woman, who made John think of his own mother, The train gathered speed. John felt a wild tug of homesickness, He wanted to get off and push the cars, They seemed to move with such deliberate Maury pulled at his sleeve. "We'd She "Of whom do you think when you look like that? "Someone very nice?" "The nicest," John agreed. "I'm just hoping she won't have changed her mind about me, | Was mighty lucky to get her." For an instant the light seemed to vanish from Maury's face, but she slid into the seat beside him and folded her hands demurely on her lap. "Susan Meredith, isn't it? Sister Wells told me you are engaged to marry her," John Fenton stared ahead. He saw Susan's small, delicate face, her dark curling hair, her competent, assured manner. Susan knew exactly what she wanted from life. He still found it hard to believe that she had included him in her plans, that she was willing to marry him when she could have so many others. "re was a small rustling beside him. John turned. Maury was sit. Ting quietly, her hands in her lap, her eyes on his face. "Ts it so large then, the city?" she asked. "You recall MacBrogan town. I shall: be quite lost in a large place," 740 John grinned ruefully, recalling the Chicago episode. "I think I should warm the city fathers that you're coming." He sobered. "But I do remember MacBrogan town, the good times we had there. I remember the first night we came, two missionaries cold, hungry, and tired, and how your father took us in and fed us and listened to us." Maury's eyes grew large and brilliant, "Always it was so. The best for the poor who had no roof or Cover. That was my father all his life long." "He's a wonderful man." patted her hand. "It won't be long. You'll get a fine job and work and save, and your family will be saving, too, and then you'll be together, perhaps next Thanksgiving." She tubbed the darned place in her plaid skirt. "Tell me then about this Thanksgiving. I don't understand." John chuckled. "It's a wonderful] day, Everybody gets a turkey or a £00se and calls in all the relatives and friends, Why, in St. George the women start getting ready two weeks ahead." He took a deep breath. "Gosh! I can almost smell the dinner now, mince and apple Pies, turkey browning." Maury sighed in wonder and delight. She slid down in the seat. "So many days for just fun here in America. I love it, In the war we were so often hungry, never, until on the Queen Mary was I full…here.” She pressed thin hands over her stomach. John Fenton felt a quick pity, remembering the pinched faces of the people he had left. Behind, their austere tables, their uncomplaining RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1948 their sharing. But he gunned down on her, remembering. "Tl never forget the look on the waiter's face, when he Saw you stow away your third breakfast' on that ship. I think you set a record." He laughed at her quick blush. "Never mind, your aunt will no doubt have a marvelous meal waiting, then you'll find out about Thanksgiving." But her white hands pressed in as though the Pain persisted still. "Where will you be, Elder Fenton?" "With Susan. She promised me a fabulous dinner. Then my brother is driving up to take me down to St. George, and I'll have another celebration," "Will Susan g0 with you?" He shook his head. "She goes to the University. There are so many things going on at Thanksgiving parties... She may come later," "She must be very beautiful?" "She is!" She smoothed her cheek. "Would -+- would anyone find me... Fair?" JOHN regarded her critically, "There are a lot of men who really like red hair, Oh, you'll get married all right, to a fine young man, no doubt." Her small face tightened. Her lower lip quivered. "That I'll not!" she said tartly and rose. She tossed her flaming hair, "I shall stay unmarried forever and ever, aye, that I will." _ Now what was wrong with her? John. Turned to watch her swinging, determined stride down the aisle. Suddenly, in spite of her height, she seemed very small and alone, an alien in a strange land. € porter came. "A telegram for Miss McClaughlin, Sir." SEASONING
741
'I'll take it." John went in search of her. He found her two cars down, the center of an admiring group who pleaded for more details of her beloved Scotland. “A telegram?” She rose to her feet and followed him back to their car.  ''Now who would be spendin' of their good money?" John coughed to hide his laughter. "Open it and see." She obeyed him. Her eyes flashed across the lines. "Ah, 'tis not as bad as I feared." John took the extended telegram. It was from her aunt. Sorry. Will not be at station. Neil sick in San Francisco. Key in mail box. Love, Aunt Nora. "I”m sorry." John handed the telegram back. Compassion shook him, remembering her parting from her loved ones, the lonely journey. She should be welcomed with banners and drums. Suddenly, he turned. Of course! She could come along to Susan's dinner. It would take the edge off the loneliness. He started to tell her. No. He would ask Susan to ask her. That would make the invitation warmer, more welcoming. THE hours inched away. John's impatience mounted with every mile. Maury sat beside him, pale and still with excitement. The early dusk had settled and the lights had been turned on. In their glow her hair gleamed like bright gold. John thought of the moors she had left behind, the little cottage that housed her warm, friendly family. He found himself saying a prayer for her, silently, that she would find joy in the city for which she had sacrificed so much. At last, after incredible waiting, the porter came through, calling, "Salt Lake City, Salt Lake City . . ." John drank in the name. His heart seemed to crowd in his throat, making it difficult to breathe. Maury jumped to her feet. ''Did you hear. Elder Fenton! Salt Lake City, the man said. It's here! It's really here!" She reached for her shabby green coat. "Oh, if only  I had someone of my own. Someone to share this moment. It is the greatest of my life. I know it." John handed her hat to her. She surveyed it ruefully. "I'm afraid I don't look very grand." John looked down at her flushed, shining face, her brilliant eyes. His heart climbed back in his throat. He grinned. "With that hair you couldn't look any way but grand. Queen's color. That's what my mother calls it. We’re stopping!” He went before her down the aisle, but so many people were ahead of him that he was stalled to one impatient step at a time. He looked through the windows. Suddenly he saw Susan, standing in the center of a group of friends. Her thin face was rosy with cold and excitement. She looked very smart in her beaver coat with the brown hat to match. Her dark hair had been cut short. It curled around her face. John recognized one or two of the group around her, girls he had known from the University. Gladness welled up in him until he could hardly bear the weight of it. Maury stumbled against him. "Just wait until you meet them,” he told her. "You'll feel as much at home as if you sat on a moor.” At last the crowd thinned. I stepped down. Susan ran to him hands outstretched. "John, darling! How handsome you look." She flung back her head for his kiss. ''Come and meet everyone. Mother put dinner at nine so you'll have plenty of time to make an impression." John laughed at her flow of words. "Susan, you haven't changed either. Bossing me around just like always." He kissed her again and put his arm around her while she made the introductions. He shook hands with them all. His eyes searched theirs. It was a habit he had acquired in the mission field. In all of them he found the blank, uncomprehending stare of the stranger. "What a lovely place!" Even the smoke-grimed platform and the black, ugly gates had the beauty of familiarity. Susan laughed. "Now you do sound just like a missionary. Oh, John, it's been hideous with you gone. I want to catch up on all the fun we've missed." She stopped short. "John? That girl? She keeps looking at you?" Contrition seized him. Maury. He had forgotten her. He turned. Maury was standing some distance away, a slim, waiting figure, something patient and forlorn about her. John took Susan's arm. "Come and meet her. She's a convert from Scotland. Darling, would you do me a favor and ask her to your dinner?" He stumbled over words in his haste to tell of the aunt who could not come, of Maury's family in Scotland. Susan drew back, impatience on her pretty face. "John! I couldn't possibly ask her! Mother has RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1948 stretched the table to its last inch. It would ruin the decorations." "But Susan, we just have to ask her. This is her first night in this place. She hasn't a soul. It's Thanksgiving. Please, Susan, for me?" Susan shook her head. "John, you'll never learn. Things just aren't done that way. I'll ask her some other time. We'll put her in a cab. You'll see, she will be perfectly all right." AURY looked up and saw them coming toward her. John winced away from the blinding relief in her smile. He turned to Susan. "I can't just put her in a cab. That's what we did in Chicago.