[Vol35 | November 1948 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Grace Sayre]

I WAIT FOR SPRING Grace Sayre I shall pause long when autumn's golden flame Burns in the maple's glory, to its last Dim ash. I cannot bear earth's poignant claim, Graying to embers in a wintry blast. The leaves that drift beyond the garden wall Will rest in golden layers on the sod; But I must not look back to see them fall. I pause.... While empty boughs commune with God. And who am I to gaze on nature's pall? I wait for spring where autumn's gold is massed, And by these symbols, know the year has passed. A Party for You Sara Mills HERE'S party blood in your veins. Read one of the old pioneer diaries. It will tell of furniture pushed outside to make room for dancing feet. Any pretext was enough: a visitor, a person about to go visiting, or no pretext at all. Often as not the party lasted through the night to morning chore time. It was these parties that kept gaiety alive in the bleak days. Now, in farremoved 1948, you have an essential need to keep gaiety nourished. Give at least one party this holiday season. The memory of it will leave a warm glow to help you up the steep, cold ascent of the January and February hills. We're passing on to you a menu for a party dinner you can engineer single-handed, if need be. The dinner is an easy one, but so good it will set the tempo for a fine, blithe evening. Roast turkey is the main dish (as cheap as any other in these days). It is abetted by potatoes au gratin in an elegant guise; a salad that can be made the day before, and a fruitcake. This may be the one you made in November, or the mincemeat fruitcake listed on the menu. For bread, buy clover-leaf rolls and break them in threes for serving. Dress your turkey the night before, down to the last stitch. Also make your salad the day before, and prepare your potatoes. The dinner ls self-serving, of course. Because your oven will be turkey occupied in the afternoon, set your Page 760 potatoes to bake in the casserole the first thing in the morning. Then keep them covered on top of the oven, popping them in the last thing to be re-heated. For a drink, use your favorite fruit-juice concoction, hot or cold. MENU Roast turkey with dressing warm ) Potatoes au gratin Pear jello Celery with avocado cheese relish Cranberry sauce Mincemeat fruitcake Clover-leaf rolls Fruit drink POTATOES AU GRATIN Potatoes (boiled in skins, approximately one large one to two persons) Thin cheese sauce (about 1/2 cup of grated American cheese to each pint of thin white sauce) Bread crumbs (fine and dry) 1 large onion, sliced Worcestershire sauce Butter, salt, and pepper Boil the potatoes in their jackets. When they are cool, slice them in smallish pieces and place them in a large dish. Season with salt and scatter slices of raw onion throughout the potatoes. Cover and leave in a cool place overnight. Next morning, remove all onion slices. Make a thin white sauce of butter, flour, and milk. Add the seasonings and the grated American cheese. In a large casserole, place alternate layers of potatoes, bread crumbs, and cheese sauce, topping the dish with a thin layer of crumbs. Dust lightly with pepper and dot with butter. Place in a low oven, about 250°, and bake for two hours. Taste well for seasoning, have plenty of the thin cheese sauce, and bake slowly. You will have a dish of rarely blended flavors. A PARTY FOR YOU PEAR JELLO 1 package lime jello 2 cups liquid 1 can or quart bottle of pears 2 small packages cream cheese 1 pinch ginger 1 tbs. Vinegar Dissolve jello in 1 cup of boiling water and add 1 cup of pear juice. Pour half of the jello, with vinegar added, into a flat pan. Put in ice box. Place remaining jello in bowl and when it is congealed, beat with a rotary egg beater. Cream the cheese smoothly with a fork; add gradually to the beaten jello. Add ginger and pears cut in pieces, and place on top of plain jello. Chill. For a large party you will need to double this recipe. Avocado CHEESE RELIsH 1 cup finely mashed avocado 2 tsp. Lemon juice 4% cup sieved Roquefort cheese 1 tbs. Thick, sour cream Dash of Tabasco and Worcestershire sauces Salt and pepper to taste Mix all the ingredients well and chill. Just before serving, place a portion of the relish in celery stalks chilled in ice water. 761 MINcEMEAT FRUITCAKE 2 cup shortening 1 cup brown sugar 1 ¢gg 1 cup mincemeat 2 cups flour 2 tsp. Baking powder "a tsp. Salt % tsp. Each cinnamon and cloves % cup milk ' cup chopped nuts "2 cup, chopped, candied fruits This is a cake you can make with utmost confidence. Cream the shortening and sugar together. Add the egg and mincemeat. Beat well. Sift together the flour, baking powder, salt, cinnamon, and cloves. Add alternately with milk to mincemeat mixture. Fold in chopped nuts and fruit. Bake in a greased paperlined loaf pan in a 350° oven for 1% hours. Serve in thin slices. You may need to double this recipe, also. At the last minute, while your husband is carving the turkey and you are tending to heating the rolls and potatoes, ask one of your guests to arrange the salad and celery stalks. You can now enjoy the party with unruffled ease. Remember the Women of Your Family with a Subscription to the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE zine for one year, beginning with Use this Coupon Enclosed please find $1.50 for which please send the Relief Society Maga- (Name) to: (Street and number) (City and State) (Ward or Branch) (Stake or Mission) Shall we send a gift card to the recipient of this subscription. Subscriptions which begin with January 1949 must be received by December Shall we send a gift card to the recipient of this subscription? NOTES FROM THE FIELD Margaret C.