[Vol35 | November 1948 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social Science: "The Declaration of Belief Regarding Governments and Laws in General" Elder G. Homer Durham]
cieties which  meet  on  Tuesdays  present  the  February  22  social  science  lesson  on  March 
22  and  the  March  22  lesson  on  the  fifth  Tuesday,  March  29,  or  combine  the  February 
and  March  social  science  lessons  and  present  them  together  on  March  22. 
Objective:  To  study  section  134  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  as  the 
belief  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  regard  to  earthly  governments  and  laws  in  general. 
CECTION  134  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  ''A  Declaration 
of  Belief  regarding  Governments 
and  Laws  in  General,"  is  the  work  of 
Oliver  Cowdery,  ''the  Second  Elder" 
of  the  Church  in  the  new  dispensa- 
tion (Progress  oi  Man,  page  367). 
The  Latter-day  Saint  doctrine  of  di- 
vine authority  to  build  a  real  king- 
dom of  God  on  earth  occasioned 
persecution  and  conflict.  The  mem- 
ories of  the  American  revolution  of 
1776  were  still  fresh  in  the  Ameri- 
can mind  and  the  American  revolu- 
tion had  been  a  revolt  in  which  the 
idea  of  divine  authority  in  secular 
affairs  had  been  repudiated.  The 
views  of  the  English  philosopher, 
John  Locke  (1632-1704)  had  become 
very  popular  in  the  United  States. 
In  1690  Locke  had  published  Two 
Treatises  on  Civil  Government.  The 
first  treatise  was  an  attack  on  and 
an  utter  repudiation  of  a  work  writ- 
ten earlier  by  Robert  Filmer,  en- 
titled Patriarcha,  which  contended 
that  God  ordained  true  government 
with  Adam,  and  that  priestly  power 
to  rule,  or  divine  authority,  had  de- 
scended from  Adam  on  down  to  the 
British  monarchy.  Devastating  this 
argument  in  the  first  treatise,  Locke's 
second  treatise  contended  for  pop- 
ular representative  government  and 
the  natural  rights  of  man  to  "life, 
liberty,  and  property."  Now  came 
along  Joseph  Smith  with  a  doctrine

782  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1948 
misunderstood  as  being  similar    to  portant,  in  order  "that  our  belief 
the  odious  one  (in  the  American  with  regard  to  earthly  governments 
mind)  of  Filmer,  with  the  Prophet  and  laws  in  general  may  not  be  mis- 
and  the  Latter-day  Saint  Priesthood  inteipieted  nor  misundeistoody'  the 
substituted  (in  the  American  mind)  Declaration  may  be  considered  the 
for  the  British  monarch  of  "divine  direct  ancestor  of  the  very  important 
right."  12th  Article  of  Faith,    which    has 
Joseph  Smith's  reconciliation    of  made  it  possible  for  missionaries  to 
divine  authority  to  build  "the  king-  preach   "the   kingdom"   in   foreign 
dom"  was  subsequently  developed  countries  without  being  subject  to 
in  terms  of  the  doctrine  of  the  di-  the  charge  that  they  were  subversive 
vinely  inspired  Constitution.    At  a  in    undermining   support   by   their 
special  general  conference  on  Aug-  people  of  foreign  governments: 
ust  17,  1835,  following  the  approval 
by  those  assembled  of  the  revela-  ^J  ^f^''^  ^"  ^^S  ^"^i^f  *°  ^^"g^' 
y        .     -L     •     1     1    J  •     ,1      -L      1      r  presidents,  rulers,  and  magistrates,  in  obey- 
tions  to  be  included  in  the  book  of  ^^g^  honoring,  and  sustaining  the  law. 
Doctrine    and    Covenants,    Oliver 
Cowdery  read  an  article  written  by  Can  a  man  divide  his  allegiance 
himself  on  "Governments  and  Laws  between  kingdom-building  and  di- 
in  General"  . . .  "which  was  accepted  vine  authority  in  a  gospel  embrac- 
and  adopted  and  ordered  to  be  print-  ing  "all  truth,"  with  citizenship  in 
ed  in  said  book"  (D.H.C.  II,  page  the  American,  British,  or  any  other 
247)  now  known  as  section  134  of  nation?     This  was    the    problem, 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenant^.  Why?  And,   from  the   beginning,  it  was 
As  the  printed  book  still  states,  in  charged  that  a  Latter-day  Saint  could 
order  "that  our  belief  with  regard  not  remain  a  good  Latter-day  Saint 
to  earthly  governments  and  laws  in  and  be  a  loyal  citizen  at  the  same 
general  may  not  be  misinterpreted  time.    The  "Declaration  of  Belief," 
nor  misunderstood  .  .  ."  adopted  by  the  voice  of  the  people 
August  17,  1835,  ^^  ^^^  ^^  ^^^  ^^^^^ 
Significance  oi  the  Declaration  and  best  answers  to  this  question 
The  Declaration  regarding  gov-  and,  as  such,  presents  some  of  the 
ernments  and  laws  is  most  signifi-  interesting  contributions  Latter-day 
cant.  In  the  first  place,  it  occupies  Saint  experience  has  made  to  po- 
an  official  position  in  the  cove-  litical  thought, 
nants  of  the  Church,  moved,  sec-  Implicit  in  the  Declaration  is  the 
onded,  and  adopted  in  open  meet-  theory  that  both  Church  and  State 
ing  by  the  people  of  the  Church  were  "instituted  of  God  for  the  ben- 
themselves,  upon  the  initiative  of  efit  of  man."  When  to  this  is  add- 
one  of  its  members.  Not  designated  ed  the  doctrine  of  the  inspired  Con- 
as  a  direct  revelation  from  God,  the  stitution,  a  unique  theory  of  Church- 
Declaration  recommended  itself  to  State  relations  (suggested  in  lesson 
the  friends  and  enemies  of  the  three)  is  furnished.  In  general 
Church  as  a  democratic  statement  of  there  are  two  theories  of  the  proper 
belief  which  could  not  be  derided  relation  of  Church  and  State,  typi- 
as  emanating  from  outside,  extra-  fied  by  two  of  the  great  reformers 
mundane    sources.    But   more   im-  who  had  to  meet  the  question  head-

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
783 
on,  Luther  and  Calvin.  In  Luther's 
theory,  the  Church  is  subordinate  to 
the  State.  In  Calvin's  view,  the 
State  should  subordinate  itself  to 
the  Church.  American  experience, 
commencing  with  Roger  Williams, 
has  urged  the  doctrine  of  separation 
of  Church  and  State.  But  when  sep- 
arated, what  is  their  relationship? 
The  Latter-day  Saint  attitude  and 
experience  suggests  the  answer:  their 
relationship  is  co-ordinate.  Both  are 
responsible,  or  should  be,  to  God; 
and  both  are  responsible  to  the  peo- 
ple in  building  a  great  world  society 
in  which  liberty  and  toleration  can 
prevail.  By  this  means  God's  king- 
dom can  be  built  and,  although  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  doctrine  suggests  that 
eventually  everyone  will  acknowl- 
edge Christ,  yet  everyone  will  have 
his  liberty— even,  said  Brigham 
Young,  ''to  worshipping  a  red  dog." 
In  case  of  conflict  between  Church 
and  State  as  they  pursue  their  twin, 
co-ordinate  missions,  the  98th  sec- 
tion of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
indicates  (as  does  the  Declaration) 
that  conflicts  should  be  reconciled 
by  reference  to  that  law  "which  is 
constitutional,  supporting  that  prin- 
ciple of  freedom  in  maintaining 
rights  and  privileges  . .  ." 
This  implication  of  co-ordinate 
roles  and  responsibilities  for  Church 
and  State  may  be  also  stated  as  a 
broad  social,  as  well  as  political, 
theory,  deriving  from  the  funda- 
mental "facts"  of  (a)  God's  exist- 
ence and  (b)  man's  existence.  Thus, 
all  social  institutions  bear  the  same 
responsibility,  in  Latter-day  Saint 
doctrine,  as  Church  and  State— to 
make  a  better  world  and  assist  in 
bringing  to  pass  "the  eternal  life  of 
man." 
The  Declaration,  of  course,  sug- 
gests answers  to  the  two  fundament- 
al questions  of  pohtical  theory  (1) 
the  nature  of  the  State,  and  (2)  the 
nature  of  man.  The  State  is  limited 
by  the  rights  of  men: 
We  do  not  believe  that  human  law  has 
a  right  to  interfere  in  prescribing  rules  of 
worship  to  bind  the  consciences  of  men, 
nor  dictate  forms  for  pubhc  and  private 
devotion  .  .  .(D.  &  C.  98:4). 
In  return  for  the  liberty  granted 
men,  and  which  the  good  State  must 
respect,  men  on  their  part,  it  is  ex- 
plained: 
.  .  .  are  bound  to  sustain  and  uphold 
the  respective  governments  in  which  they 
reside,  while  protected  in  their  inherent 
and  inalienable  rights  by  the  laws  of  such 
governments;  .  .  .  and  that  all  govern- 
ments have  a  right  to  enact  such  laws  as 
in  their  own  judgments  are  best  calculated 
to  secure  the  pubHc  interest;  at  the  same 
time,  however,  holding  sacred  the  free- 
dom of  conscience  (D.  &  C.  98:5). 
This  is  one  of  the  great  docu- 
ments of  human,  political  experi- 
ence. Full  analysis  of  the  entire 
Declaration  will  be  made,  step  by 
step,  point  by  point,  in  a  series  of