[Vol35 | November 1948 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty Years Ago]
702 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER   1948 
Vi/orA    nleetifig — Sewing 
(A  Course  for  Optional  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Lesson  4— Salvage  from  Shirts 
Jean  Ridges  Jennings 
For  Tuesday,  January  ii,  1949 
[EN'S  shirts,  like  their  suits,  fre- 
quently become  shabby  and 
wear  out  in  strategic  points  long  be- 
fore their  full  value  is  exhausted.  The 
collars  and  cuffs  become  frayed  and 
they  frequently  pull  out  at  the  arm- 
holes,  but  the  main  body  of  the 
shirts  can  still  stand  more  wear.  If 
the  material  seems  weak  all  over, 
then  it  is  a  waste  of  time  and  energy 
to  re-make  them.  But  when  the 
shirt  as  a  whole  is  sturdy,  many  use- 
ful things  can  be  done  with  it. 
There  is  a  surprising  amount  of 
yardage  to  be  found  in  a  man's  shirt. 
The  fabric  is  usually  fine,  soft,  and 
closely  woven.  These  features,  to- 
gether with  attractiveness  of  color 
and  print,  recommend  them  for  re- 
modeling into  children's  clothes. 
Logically,  the  first  use  that  comes 
to  mind  is  merely  re-making  the  shirt 
into  a  smaller  size  for  a  boy.  In  this 
case  try  to  take  advantage,  as  much 
as  possible,  of  the  tail  of  the  shirt 
which  gets  the  least  wear,  for  the 
parts  of  the  boy's  shirt  which  get 
the  most  wear,  namely  the  collar  and 
sleeves. 
Other  children's  clothing  such  as 
sun  suits,  pinafores  and  aprons  can 
be  constructed  from  shirts,  colored 
ones  being  used  for  play  clothes  for 
little   girls,   and   for   play   trousers, 
with  a  bib,  for  little  boys. 
Attractive  butcher-boy  smocks,  to  be 
worn  with  contrasting  slacks  can  be 
fashioned  for  little  girls,  using  the 
stripes  in  different  directions  for 
trim. 
For  the  teen-age  girl  lovely  blouses 
can  be  made  in  the  Gibson  girl 
styles.  Many  attractive  combina- 
tions can  be  fashioned  by  using 
plain  white  shirts  along  with  striped 
or  colored  ones.  Have  a  tucked 
white  bosom  front  and  cuffs  and 
collar  on  a  solid  color  blouse.  Or  re- 
verse the  procedure  and  have  striped 
trim  on  a  white  blouse. 
The  young  housewife  and  mother 
can  fashion  innumerable  useful  and 
attractive  aprons.  A  shirt  lends  it- 
self better  to  a  style  with  a  waist  band 
and  attached  bib  or  merely  a  front 
apron  type,  since  the  usable  length 
of  a  shirt  is  rarely  over  thirty  inches. 
By  combining  the  available  material 
of  the  shirt  with  color,  bias,  rick  rack 
or  even  eyelet  embroidery,  the  pos- 
sibilities are  unlimited. 
To  this  list  of  suggestions  add 
numerous  items  such  as  sunbonnets 
for  the  little  girls,  petticoats,  pant- 
ies, and  even  the  popular  camisole, 
and  we  have  a  vista  of  make-overs  to 
challenge  the  ingenuity  of  any  clev- 
er woman.

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  ~"          703 
JLiterature — Literature  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
Literature  of  the  Gospel  Restoration 
Lesson  4— Words  of  Light  and  Truth  from  the  Prophet 
Elder  Howard  R.  Diiggs 
For  Tuesday,  January  18,  1949 
TOSEPH  Smith  was  the  first  great  this  came  from    his    pen— will  be 
^  inteq^reter  in  these  latter  days  of  found  in  our  ''Articles  of  Faith." 
the  gospel,  which  with  the  help  of  For  straightforward,  orderly  compo- 
the  Lord  and  Savior,  of  Moroni  and  sition— clear,  concrete,  and  compre- 
other  holy  men,  he  restored.  In  ad-  hensive— this  religious  statement  is 
dition  to    the    Book    of   Mormon,  outstanding.    Moreover,     the    lan- 
which  he  said  is  ''the  keystone  of  our  guage  has  a  natural  rhythm  which 
religion,"  and  the  Doctrine  and  Gov-  lends  itself  to  good  oral  reading  and 
enants  which  is  the  revealed  word  memorizing.  In  a  word,  the  "Articles 
of  God  to  this  Prophet,  there   are  of  Faith"  have  high  literary  quality', 
many  sayings  and  sermons  of  this  Joseph   Smith   wrote  and    spoke 
great  leader  which  add  new  light  and  without  ostentation.  He  wasted  no 
truth.     These  help   us  understand  words;  truth  to  him  was  of  first  im- 
more  clearly  the  plan  of  salvation;  portance.     Further,  he  seemed    to 
and  further,  they  bring  us  closer  to  delight,  as  the  prophet  Nephi  terse- 
the  spirit  and  power  and  kindly  na-  ly  expressed  it,  "in  plainness."  Fur- 
ture  of  "the  man  who  communed  ther  examples  of  the  plain  and  force- 
with  Jehovah."  ful  words  of  Joseph  Smith  follow: 
In   a   helpful    little    book    called  Baptism  of  Water  and  the  Spirit 
Joseph   Smith's  Teachings— a   com-  The  gospel  requires  baptism  by  immer- 
pilation  by  Edwin  F.  Parry  from  the  sion  for  the  remission  of  sins,  which    is 
authorized  History  of  the  Church  of  f^^  meaning  of  the  word  in  the  original 
lem<i   Christ   of    T  affer-cJav    "^mnU  language— namely,  to  bury  or  immerse: 
jesus  uiinsr  or  i.atter-aay  saints,  ^^  ^^-^  ^^^  ^^^^5^  j^^  ^^^  ^^-^-^^^  ^^-^^ 
known  as  the  Documentary  History  They  answer,  No.  I  believe  in  being  con- 
of  the  Church  (D.H.G.),  are  many  verted. 
illuminating  utterances  of  the  Proph-  ^  believe  in  this  tenaciously.  So  did  the 
et-taken  from  his  sermons  and  in-  ^P?'^T^'/f^''  f  f.  the  disciples  of  Jesus. 
r          1    J.           .                         ,           1  .  But  1  further  believe  in  the  gift  of  the 
formal  discussions,  as  nearly  as  his  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  hands .... 
scribes  in  longhand  could  record  his  You  might  as  well  baptize  a  bag  of  sand 
words.      In  this  study  let  us  center  as  a  man,  if  not  done  in  view  of  the  remis- 
attention  on  some  of  these  typical  ^^°"  °^  ^^^^  ^"^  getting  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
o«l«^*.,'^^o   4.^   J.   I.  ^1          •  •  i.     1  Baptism  by  water  is  but  half  a  baptism, 
selections  to  get  not  only  spiritual  .  5  v    ^  i  r        4.V.-        -^-u    ,.  1.1,     i.^ 
,.--.            &                      J     f  and  IS  good  for  nothing  without  the  other 
upbuilding,  but  also    for    apprecia-  half— that  is,  the  baptism   of  the   Holy 
tion  of  the    direct,    vibrant,    lucid  Ghost. 
style  in  which  the  great  leader  por-  ^^^  Savior  says,  "Except  a  man  be  born 
trayed  truth  and  wisdom.  f  ^.^^f^  t?^  ?^-  ^^^  ^P'"r'  i^^f"fr°^  ^"l" 
•^  ter   into   the  kingdom   of  God      ( Joseph 
An  excellent  first  example— and  Smith's  Teachings,  pp.  15-16).

704 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER   1948 
Faith  and  Its  Fruits 
Faith  comes  by  hearing  the  word  of 
God.  If  a  man  has  not  faith  enough  to 
do  one  thing,  he  may  have  faith  to  do  an- 
other: if  he  cannot  remove  a  mountain,  he 
may  heal  the  sick.  Where  faith  is  there 
will  be  some  of  the  fruits;  all  gifts  and 
power  which  were  sent  from  heaven,  were 
poured  out  on  the  heads  of  those  who  had 
faith  {Ihid.,  page  38). 
Constitution  of  the  United  States — 
Its  One  Fault 
It  is  one  of  the  first  principles  of  my 
life,  and  one  that  I  have  cultivated  from 
my  childhood,  having  been  taught  it  by 
my  father,  to  allow  every  one  the  liberty 
of  conscience.  I  am  the  greatest  advocate 
of  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States 
there  is  on  the  earth.  In  my  feelings  I  am 
always  ready  to  die  for  the  protection  of 
the  weak  and  oppressed  in  their  just  rights. 
The  only  fault  I  find  with  the  Constitu- 
tion is,  it  is  not  broad  enough  to  cover 
the  whole  ground. 
Although  it  provides  that  all  men  shall 
enjoy  religious  freedom,  yet  it  does  not 
provide  the  manner  by  which  that  free- 
dom can  be  preserved,  nor  the  punishment 
of  Government  officers  who  refuse  to  pro- 
tect the  people  in  their  religious  rights, 
or  punish  those  mobs,  states,  or  com- 
munities who  interfere  with  the  rights  of 
the  people  on  account  of  their  reHgion 
{Ibid.,  page  24). 
Heiey  surelyj  is  literature  that  was 
lived  before  it  was  written.  The 
Prophet  had  just  gone  through  the 
persecutions  with  his  people  that 
brought  death  to  many,  imprison- 
ment for  himself  and  others,  and  ex- 
pulsion from  a  State,  some  of  whose 
officers  had  violated  sacred  prin- 
ciples of  the  Constitution.  And  he 
had  heard  from  the  Chief  Executive 
of  our  Nation  the  weakling  words, 
"Your  cause  is  just;  but  I  can  do 
nothing  for  you/'  The  expression 
of  the  Prophet  on  the  Constitution 
came  out  of  a  full  heart. 
Another  stirring  expression,  re- 
corded in  its  burning  words  for  us 
by  Parley  P.  Pratt,  who  heard  it,  was 
the  Prophet's  denunciation  of  the 
foul  mob  who  held  him  with  other 
leaders  in  a  dreadful  jail.  After  he 
had  listened  to  the  filthy  boastings 
and  profanity  of  these  captors  as 
long  as  he  could  stand  it,  Joseph 
Smith  rose,  and  in  a  voice  of  thunder 
said,  as  nearly  as  apostle  Pratt  could 
recall  his  words: 
SILENCE,  ye  fiends  of  the  infernal 
pit!  In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  I  rebuke 
you,  and  command  you  to  be  still;  I  will 
not  live  another  minute  and  hear  such 
language.  Cease  such  talk,  or  you  or  I 
die  THIS  MINUTE. 
The  story  continues: 
He  ceased  to  speak.  He  stood  erect  in 
terrible  majesty.  Chained,  and  without  a 
weapon;  calm,  unruffled  and  dignified  as 
an  angel,  he  looked  upon  the  quailing 
guards  .  .  .  who  begged  his  pardon,  and 
remained  quiet  till  a  change  of  guards 
(Autobiography  of  Parky  P.  Pratt,  page 
229). 
In  another  part  of  his  Autobiog- 
laphy,  Parley  P.  Pratt,  who  knew 
Joseph  Smith  intimately  during 
those  earlier  testing  years,  writes  of 
the  Prophet's  language  as: 
.  .  .  abounding  in  original  eloquence 
peculiar  to  himself — not  polished — not 
studied — not  smoothed  and  softened  by 
education  and  refined  by  art;  but  flowing 
forth  in  its  own  native  simplicity,  and 
profusely  abounding  in  variety  of  subject 
and  manner.  He  interested  and  edified, 
while,  at  the  same  time,  he  amused  and 
entertained  his  audience;  and  none  lis- 
tened to  him  that  were  ever  weary  of  his 
discourse  ....  Even  his  most  bitter  ene- 
mies were  generally  overcome,  if  he  could 
once  get  their  ears  (Ibid.,  page  7). 
All  this  is  borne  out  by  the  fact 
that  during  his  brief  life  he  attract- 
ed thousands  upon  thousands 
through  his  spiritual  teachings.  More 
than   this,  his  profound  lessons    of

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
705 
life,  given  with  divine  inspiration, 
still  magnetize  and  guide  hundreds 
of  thousands  within  and  even  with- 
out the  Church  he  founded.  When 
one  studies  his  words  of  truth  and 
light,  one  grows  in  appreciation  of 
this  Prophet-teacher.  Following  are 
a  few  of  the  many  inspired  lines  that 
continue  to  live: 
No  man  is  capable  of  judging  a  matter, 
in  council,  unless  his  own  heart  is  pure 
{Joseph  Smith's  TeachingSy  page  90). 
A  man  is  saved  no  faster  than  he  gets 
knowledge  {Ibid.,  page  98). 
In  knowledge  there  is  power.  God  has 
more  power  than  all  other  beings,  because 
He  has  greater  knowledge  (Ibid.,  page 
156). 
There  is  never  a  time  when  the  spirit 
is  too  old  to  approach  God  (Ibid.,  page 
105). 
There  is  no  such  thing  as  immaterial 
matter.  All  spirit  is  matter,  but  is  more 
fine  or  pure,  and  can  only  be  discerned 
by  purer  eyes  (Ibid.,  page  104). 
Daily  transgression  and  daily  repentance 
is  not  that  which  is  pleasing  in  the  sight 
of  God  {Ibid.,  page  136). 
God  judges  men  according  to  the  use 
they  make  of  the  hght  which  He  gives 
them   {Ibid.y  page  161). 
Here  in  directness  and  clarity  arc 
examples  of  effective  expression  of 
basic  truths.  Joseph  Smith  thought 
boldly,  and  voiced  plainly  truth  as 
he  had  gained  it  with  divine  help. 
He  had  a  message  of  deep  import  to 
give  to  the  world— had  religious  fal- 
lacies to  correct;  and  he  did  it  cour- 
ageously in  plain  language. 
One  thing  he  did  that  needed  do- 
ing and  still  does,  was  to  take  the 
"wings"  off  angels.  Sectarian  fancy 
had  placed  these  on  heavenly  be- 
ings; artists  had  mis-pictured  them; 
authors  had  written  wrongly  of  them. 
Joseph  Smith  said  with  character- 
istic directness:  "An  angel  of  God 
never  has  wings/' 
This  point  is  emphasized  because 
there  seems  to  be  need  of  correcting 
the  fallacy.  "Why,"  said  an  adole- 
scent Latter-day  Saint  girl  recently, 
"I  always  thought  that  angels  had 
wings."  With  pictures  spread  by 
millions  at  Christmas,  Easter,  and 
on  other  occasions,  portraying  the 
error,  it  is  high  time  to  guard  our 
buying,  and  help  our  children  to 
learn  the  truth. 
Our  Prophet,  with  words  of  clar- 
ity and  concreteness,  performed  a 
divine  service  in  bringing  heaven 
closer  to  us.  He  truly  re-vitalized 
Christianity;  he  brought  us  closer  to 
angels.  He  knew  them  as  glorious 
human  beings,  for  Moroni,  "an  ang- 
el from  on  high"  had  been  his  splen- 
did teacher. 
With  inspired  words  and  in  plain- 
ness, Joseph  Smith  taught  the  pure 
and  everlasting  gospel.  With  clarity 
and  courage  he  laid  bare  the  fal- 
lacies that  had  grown  round  it- 
stripping  away  the  trappings  of  sec- 
tarianism. Nor  was  there  anything 
narrow  or  prejudicial  in  all  this.  It 
was  always  inspired  with  a  desire  to 
spread  truth. 
"We  do  not  ask  any  people,"  he 
said,  "to  throw  away  any  good  they 
have  got;  we  only  ask  them  to  come 
and  get  more."  Again  he  said,  "One 
of  the  grand  fundamental  principles 
of  'Mormonism'  is  to  receive  truth, 
let  it  come  whence  it  may."  All  of 
which  is  in  accord  with  the  Thir- 
teenth Article  of  our  Faith— which 
came  from  this  Prophet  of  the  lat- 
ter days. 
Joseph  Smith  added  richly  to  the 
religious  literature  of  the  world.  He 
contributed  not  only  many  sayings 
of  spiritual  worth,  but  also  disserta- 
tions on  lofty  themes  to  clarify  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel.    Following,  for

706 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER  1948 
further  illustration,  are  some  ex- 
cerpts from  one  of  such  helpful 
sermons: 
GIFT  OF  THE  HOLY  GHOST 
Various  and  conflicting  are  the  opinions 
of  men  in  regard  to  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  Some  people  have  been  in  the 
habit  of  calling  every  supernatural  mani- 
festation the  effects  of  the  Spirit  of  God, 
whilst  there  are  others  that  think  there  is 
no  manifestation  connected  with  it  at  all; 
and  that  it  is  nothing  but  a  mere  impulse 
of  the  mind,  or  an  inward  feeling,  impres- 
sion, or  secret  testimony  or  evidence,  which 
men  possess,  and  that  there  is  no  such 
thing  as  an  outward  manifestation. 
It  is  not  to  be  wondered  at  that  men 
should  be  ignorant,  in  a  great  measure, 
of  the  principles  of  salvation,  and  more 
especially  of  the  nature,  office,  power,  in- 
fluence, gifts  and  blessings  of  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost;  when  we  consider  that 
the  human  family  have  been  enveloped  in 
gross  darkness  and  ignorance  for  many  cen- 
turies past,  without  revelation,  or  any  just 
criterion  to  arrive  at  a  knowledge  of  the 
things  of  God,  which  can  only  be  known 
by  the  Spirit  of  God.  .  .  .
