[Vol35 | November 1948 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting Teachers' Messages: "Judge Not That Ye Be Not Judged" Elder H. Wayne Driggs]
Visiting  cJeachers    I /Lessages — Our  Savior 
Speaks 
Lesson  5- 'Judge  Not  That  Ye  Be  Not  Judged" 
Eider  H.  Wayne  Diiggs 
For  Tuesday,  February  1,  1949 
Objective:  To  point  out  that  it  is  not  our  place  to  pass  judgment  on  another. 
lATHEN  the  Savior  gave  us  the  in- 
junction *7^^g^  "^^^  ^^^t  y^ 
be  not  judged,"  he  set  for  his  fol- 
lowers a  standard  which  is  hard  to 
live  up  to.  This  is  because  it  seems 
natural  for  all  of  us,  in  our  finite 
state,  to  see  the  imperfections  of  our 
neighbors  while  we  minimize  our 
own.  Not  once,  but  many  times  did 
the  Savior  teach  those  who  gathered 
about  him  that  it  was  not  their 
place  to  judge  others.  Upon  the  oc- 
casion of  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount, 
he  gave  them  "the  golden  rule." 
Later,  to  the  scribes  and  the  Phari- 
sees he  made  it  clear  that  even  they 
whose  office  it  was  to  interpret  the 
law,  must  not  condemn  the  woman 
taken  in  sin,  for  they  themselves 
were  fallible.  "Let  him  who  is  with- 
out sin,  cast  the  first  stone,"  he  said. 
He  tells  us  to  substitute  mercy  for 
harsh  judgment. 
Be  ye  therefore  merciful,  as  your  Father 
also  is  merciful.  Judge  not,  and  ye  shall 
not  be  judged;  condemn  not,  and  ye  shall 
not  be  condemned:  forgive,  and  ye  shall 
be  forgiven  (Luke  6:36-37). 
Because  of  our  human  frailties 
there  will  always  be  flaws  in  our  na- 
tures. It  is  easy  to  sit  in  judgment 
upon  another,  but  it  is  unjust  to  do

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  775 
SO  since  we  cannot  know  all  the  cir-  inception  in  the  mind  to  its  final 
cumstances  that  may  have  contrib-  result.    Albeit  the  Lord  has  given  to 
uted  towards  an  act.  some  of  his  servants,  including  the 
The  Savior  knew  that  only  God  bishop  of  the  ward,  to  be  common 
can  render  a  just  judgment,  for  he  judges,  and  to  such  persons  so  auth- 
alone  knows  the  intents    of   one's  orized,  gives  them  wisdom  and  dis- 
heart.     Outward    appearances    and  cernment  and  inspiration  sufficient 
actions  may  be  misunderstood  and  to  qualify  them  to  act  in  this  high 
misconstrued.    There   is   no   living  place. 
man  who  is  all-wise  and  who  can         *']udge    not,     that    ye    be    not 
judge  the  justice  of  an  act  from  its  judged"  (Matthew  7:1). 
♦  ■ 
V(/orn    llLeetifig — Sewing 
(A  Course  for  Optional  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Lesson  5— Outmoded  Formals 
/ean  Ridges  Jennings 
For  Tuesday,  'February  15,  1949 
pERHAPS  the  one  article  in  a  Or  why  not  have  a  dressy  negligee 
woman's  wardrobe  which  gives  or  house  coat  for  a  feeling  of  luxury 
the  least  value  for  the  money  ex-  in  those  few  odd  moments  of  leisure 
pended  is  the  formal.  Often  there  is  lounging?  Often,  when  a  fancy 
no  room  in  the  family  budget  for  a  housecoat  or  robe  is  an  extravagance, 
mother's  formal,  and  if  there  is  she  an  old  evening  gown  can  be  convert- 
hesitates  to  buy  one  because  she  feels  ed  into  something  of  this  sort  that 
she  won't  get  enough  wear  from  it.  may  give  much  pleasure. 
Formals  need  not  be  considered  As  has  been  stated  many  times  be- 
wasteful  or  extravagant  if  we  extend  fore,  one  must  always  be  careful  to 
their  usefulness  by  making  them  make  sure  that  the  color  and  type  of 
over  into  attractive  articles  of  cloth-  material  in  garments  that  are  made 
ing  after  we  have  grown  tired  of  over  is  becoming  to  the  individual 
them  as  formals  or  when  they  have  who  is  to  wear  the  garment.  In  some 
become  outmoded.  One  might  even  cases  little  girl's  dresses  can  be  fash- 
be  farsighted  enough  to  plan  the  new  ioned  from  old  formals.  If  the  ma- 
formal  with  a  view  to  using  it  later  terial  is  dainty  in  color  and  launder- 
for  some  other  purpose.  able,  it  is  especially  usable  for  this 
For  first  consideration  is  the  pos-  purpose, 
sibility  of  shortening  a  formal  and  With  the  current  trend  for  fuller, 
either  dyeing  it  or  combining    it  longer  skirts  there  is  a  strong  fad  for 
with  other  material  for  use  as  an  af-  ruffled  petticoats.    Where  is  a  more 
ternoon  or   street    dress.    This,    of  logical  place  to  turn  for  the  material 
course  is  done  only  if  it  can  be  made  from  which  to  make  one  than  to  old 
appropriate  to  the  occasion.  formals?    Taffetas>  satins,  and  other

776 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— NOVEMBER  1948 
slick  materials  are  usually  good  to 
use,  and  any  color  in  the  rainbow,  or 
combination  of  colors  is  in  vogue. 
From  dresses  of  washable  materials 
and  pastel  colors,  other  undergar- 
ments can  be  made  both  for  children 
and  grownups.  Use  such  dresses  for 
slips,  panties,  and  camisoles. 
Here,  again,  is  a  source  of  material 
for  blouses.  The  possibilities  are 
almost  unlimited.  There  is  no  end 
to  the  kinds  and  colors  of  material 
from  which  one  could  make  a  blouse. 
Whether   eyelet  pique,   silk  crepe, 
taffeta,  sheer  chiffon,  or  even  heavy 
brocade,  most  everyone  could  fit  the 
blouse  into  her  wardrobe  for  va- 
rieties of  occasions. 
And,  as  a  last  suggestion,  consider 
the  possibility  of  redecorating  a  bed- 
room with  ruffles  fashioned  from  the 
skirt  of  an  old  formal.  Make  a  new 
skirt  for  the  dressing  table,  a  ruffle 
around  the  edge  of  a  mirror,  fluffy 
bows  for  curtain  tie-backs.  Or  you 
could  even  disguise  a  shabby  table  or 
makeshift  for  a  table  with  a  full  cir- 
cular flounce  falling  to  the  floor  that 
you  made  from  your  old  dress.