[Vol35 | November 1948 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Work Meeting Sewing Jennings]

Work Meeting—Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 5—Outmoded Formals Jean Ridges Jennings For Tuesday, 'February 15, 1949 PERHAPS the one article in a woman's wardrobe which gives the least value for the money expended is the formal. Often there is no room in the family budget for a mother's formal, and if there is she hesitates to buy one because she feels she won't get enough wear from it. Formals need not be considered wasteful or extravagant if we extend their usefulness by making them over into attractive articles of clothing after we have grown tired of them as formals or when they have become outmoded. One might even be farsighted enough to plan the new formal with a view to using it later for some Other purpose. For first consideration is the possibility of shortening a formal and either dyeing it or combining it with other material for use as an afternoon or street dress. This, of course is done only if it can be made appropriate to the occasion. Or why not have a dressy negligee or house coat for a feeling of luxury in those few odd moments of leisure lounging? Often, when a fancy housecoat or robe is an extravagance, an old evening gown can be converted into something of this sort that may give much pleasure. As has been stated many times before, one must always be careful to make sure that the color and type of material in garments that are made over is becoming to the individual who is to wear the garment. In some cases little girl's dresses can be fashioned from old formals. If the material is dainty in color and launderable, it is especially usable for this purpose. With the current trend for fuller, longer skirts there is a strong fad for ruffled petticoats. Where is a more logical place to turn for the material from which to make one than to old formals? Taffetas, satins, and other 716 slick materials are usually good to use, and any color in the rainbow, or combination of colors is in vogue. From dresses of washable materials and pastel colors, other undergarments can be made both for children and grownups. Use such dresses for slips, panties, and camisoles. Here, again, is a source of material for blouses. The possibilities are almost unlimited. There is no end to the kinds and colors of material from which one could make a blouse. Whether eyelet pique, silk crepe, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1948 taffeta, sheer chiffon, or even heavy brocade, most everyone could fit the blouse into her wardrobe for varieties of occasions. And, as a last suggestion, consider the possibility of redecorating a bedroom with ruffles fashioned from the skirt of an old formal. Make a new skirt for the dressing table, a ruffle around the edge of a mirror, fluffy bows for curtain tie-backs. Or you could even disguise a shabby table or makeshift for a table with a full circular flounce falling to the floor that you made from your old dress.