NUGGET OF TRUTH too much, and now there was that man, Bill's friend to worry about. She should have answered the door, herself, but it would have been too awful to have him see her like this, in slacks and mules, her hair in a kerchief and her face smudged with dust. And all this litter! Penny's doll clothes added the finishing touch. Penny was industriously packing them into her box, her face a miniature of housewifely concern. If Bill could only see her now! She was so adorable, her baby lips pursed, her round little fingers making their vague movements. Who could spank a child like that? "Penny, would you like to play at Jamie's for half an hour?" Anna Lea asked after a little busy silence.

WHEN Penny had gone Anna Lea let herself out of the service entrance and into the elevator to the basement. She had a basket of things to be burned. Uppermost on it was the box of Penny's doll clothes, atrocious little things Penny had crudely fashioned from her own worn-out things, silk print and old velvet, badly cut, with raw edges and ridiculous stitching. She would really have to teach Penny to sew, now that she was old enough.

It was all trash, bits of crumpled lace, some artificial flowers matted with embroidery silk, and some stringy ribbons. Nevertheless, she had a guilty little pang as she put them into the fire, turning her face from the heat of the glowing coals. She watched the sides of the box darken with smoke and the edges begin to curl. There was an instant when she would have snatched them out, but they broke into flame, and it was too late. Millions of dollars, Penny had said. With a little constriction of her heart, Anna Lea shut the door on the burning doll clothes and went upstairs. She shut her eyes, but couldn't shut out the sight of the flame, browning the tiny sun-suit, licking the small blue coat. The telephone was ringing as she went back into the apartment, Western Union, calling with a telegram from Bill. Jefferson, the big boss, calling to see you en route East. Squelch Penny's imagination. Everything depends on good impression. Better job, more money. Jefferson stickler for truth. Poor Bill! He must have been fearful to have sent that. "Oh!" she said suddenly, "Mr. Jefferson!" The truth hit her like a landslide. That was Mr. Jefferson whom Penny had told an elephant had eaten her mother—the man at the door. This was too awful! Bill would never forgive her. What was worse, he would never forgive Penny. A stickler for truth, Bill had said. Anna Lea wished fervently she might dissolve in thin air. What should she do? Rectify the mistake, obviously, but how? Where did he stay? If she could call him and tell the absolute truth, invite him to dinner at her new home as soon as he returned to San Francisco, that might do it. Somehow she would fix things for Bill.

SHE began calling the hotels. "Is a Mr. Jefferson registered there?" she asked repeatedly. After half an hour at the telephone, searching his whereabouts, she gave up. Anger overwhelmed her. Anger at Bill. What did he think, that you could tear your goods out of your home—well, your apartment—and be serenely calm enough to receive visitors? Anger at Penny. Bill was not so far wrong with his razor strops and closets—even closets inhabited with the terrifying "elephants!" of Penny's imagination. Why couldn't the child have said what she was told to say, that her mother had a headache, that she was ill? Even that now seemed a flimsy excuse. Anna Lea had supposed it to be some kind of joke. It could be Simmons from across the hall.

She was angry even at the unsuspecting Mr. Jefferson. Why, at least, couldn't he have telephoned? She was sitting beside her open trunk, her fingers pressing her throbbing temples, trying to think what next to do, when Penny burst in.

"I told Jamie I couldn't play any more because I have the measles and a broken leg, and besides I have to pack up baby's clothes."

Penny stopped short, looking for the box. "Did you pack them, Mommy? Did you put them in a suitcase?" she asked apprehensively.

Anna Lea, conscious of the guilt of being busy, did not answer. Penny came and stood before her in small implacability.

"Did you put my doll clothes in a suitcase, Mommy?"

"Yes, yes," mumbled Anna Lea in a preoccupied manner, lifting her stocking box into the tilt of her trunk with great care.

"Which suitcase did you put them in?" Penny insisted.

Anna Lea waved a vague hand at the set of bags and boxes.

"Oh Lord!" Penny. One of those. I can't remember. We'll find out when we get to San Francisco," she evaded.

I'll get her some real velvet and satin and make her dolls beautiful clothes the minute we get there, she promised herself. Penny subsided in a chair, not satisfied, but thoughtful. Anna Lea hoped, with a little sigh of relief, that the uncomfortable matter was closed.

"It was a really good place to pack your jewelry," Penny commenced in adult-like conversationalism.

"My jewelry!" said Anna Lea, startled. "What do you mean?" The heap of jewelry was gone from the desk. "Penny, where is Mother's jewelry?"

"You said to help you find a good place, and I helped. I put it down in the middle of my baby clothes box. Wasn't I a good girl?"

"You mean it's bumped? My jewelry—my watch that Daddy gave me—burned in the trunk?" 

ANNA Lea stood stock-still, remembering the flame that licked at the side of the box, remembering the glowing bed of coals beneath, the finger pointing at her. She stared at her, her eyes round and accusing.

"You burned up my dolly dresses, Mommy," she stated. "You said you packed them."

Anna Lea had a sick feeling, seeing the child's stricken face, sensing her own loss. Penny had loved those doll clothes as much as she had loved her watch.

She opened her mouth, the urge for excuses, palliatives, promises, strong upon her, but the moment was too deep, too significant. On it turned her whole life, her entire shop with Penny—with Bill. "I told you a lie, Penny," she said, wrenching the words from their habitual sockets. "A big, very bad lie. I did say I packed them. I did burn your baby clothes."

Penny's sobs were heartbreak. "Lana's velvet dress—Billy Boy's blue coat—burned!"

No less burning was the vision of Bill's job, swept into the holocaust of Mr. Jefferson's disapproval, Bill's love for her, smoking in contempt, licked by the small flames of her own worth lies and deceits of convenience. She knelt beside Penny.

"I know how you feel, Penny. I've been a very bad mother. I know exactly how you feel!"

Penny stopped short, struck by an idea. "My own pack them, Mommy? Daddy's pack—"

"Don't cry, my pretty Mama," she wept on. "My dolly's clothes didn't cost millions and millions of dollars,
and I didn't buy them at Moffats. My dollies didn't tell me they loved them, because my dollies can't talk."

"Penny, you're telling the truth," marveled Anna Lea.

Penny's eyes smiled tears and her little mouth trembled.

"Of course! I thought it was a lovely good place to pack your jewelry," she said contritely.

"Oh, Baby!" And Anna Lea took Penny into her arms. The reason why Penny lied—the cure for it—lay like a nugget in the ashes of her loss.

The telephone rang, then, like a second chance. It was Mr. Jefferson.

"Just a moment," Anna Lea said cupping the mouthpiece. "It was a good place, Penny Darling. A very good place!"

Alice Morey Bailey, musician, composer, sculptor, artist, and writer, is a remarkable artist! Latter-day Saint woman. In addition to her outstanding accomplishments in the fine arts, she is a trained nurse and a loving wife and mother. Alice and her husband, DeWitt Bailey, have three children, a married daughter, Elise Maines; a son, Donald, attending the University of Utah; and a younger daughter, Judith. There is also a most adorable grandchild, Sharon Maines.

Bailey has served in all of the Church auxiliary organizations and is at present organist in the Sunday School of the Eleventh Ward, Salt Lake City.
The literary work of Mrs. Bailey has been recognized by many publications and has received awards in several contests. She won first place in the Utah State Federation of Women's Clubs Poetry Contest in 1941 and second place in 1939. She has twice received the Desert News Christmas Prize Story Contest, first place in 1940, first place in 1942 in the A. Centennial One-Act Play Contest for "The Rosewood Piano," and second prize in 1943. M. I. A. Centennial Story Contest for "One Rose, Withered."
Readers of The are familiar with Mrs. Bailey's poems, many of them frontispieces, and with her excellent short stories which have added much to the beauty and enjoyment of the magazine. "The Merry-Go-Round," was featured during 1941 and 1942. "Wilderness," placed first in the 1941