Three Mexican Dishes
Sara Mills

Of all Mexican cooking is hot.
A person could live out his life in Mexico and not eat a single hot dish. The hot dishes are there, products of old Spain, the Aztecs, and Mexico. Some of them are wonderfully good, but eating them is a matter of choice, not necessity. Much of the Mexican cookery is too intricate for the servantless American housewife. Some of the simpler dishes, however, are worth bringing north of the border. This time I shall write of only three—all easy to make, inexpensive, and good. I have no legitimate recipes for them. They came to me by word of mouth and by watching. Hence, the measurements here are meant as suggestions only. Vary them to suit your fancy and your numbers.

1. Rice soup (Sopa de arroz)
2. Zucchini with pork (Calabacitas )
3. Tortillas with cheese (Tortillas con queso)

Sopa de arroz is not soup, according to North American standards, but a nourishing, one-dish meal for luncheon or dinner. There is no set way to make it. The contents depend more upon the state of the refrigerator and the market basket.

Here is a guiding recipe:

RICE SOUP (Serves Four)
1 cup rice (uncooked)
1 - 2 tbs. Fat
3 - 4 cups of soup stock or water 
tbs. Chopped onions
cup diced celery
cup green peas
large carrot, sliced
2-3 tomatoes
parsley
salt
Pepper
a few drops of Worcestershire sauce
a few drops of Tabasco sauce

Turn a cup of uncooked rice into a heavy frying pan, sizzling with your favorite shortening. Keep the rice turning until it is seared with fat but not browned. This should take about five minutes. Now turn the rice into a heavy saucepan, which contains the 3 or 4 cups of boiling liquid, preferably soup stock and chicken, if available. Lacking soup stock, use water and bouillon cubes. Add to the rice mixture the sliced onions, which have been sautéed a delicate, golden brown, a cup of diced celery, two or three ripe tomatoes (use canned tomatoes or juice in off seasons), a large carrot sliced in thin wheels, a handful of chopped parsley. Then add the seasonings. When the rice is almost done, remove the cover and place a cup or so of freshly shelled green peas, canned peas or string beans, if you prefer, on top to steam until they are tender. You may also add strips of bell pepper, green or red, or both.

The Mexican way of cooking this dish is to use an open kettle and stir occasionally. Mindful of vitamins, I use a heavy aluminum dish. After the rice is boiling nicely, I turn the heat low and let it steam. You will like the flaky rice and the blend of tastes. Tan Sabroso!

ZUCCHINI WITH PORK (Serves Four)
%-1 Ib. Pork cut in cubes
1 Ib. Zucchini (Italian squash) cut in cubes
2-3 cups corn, fresh or canned
a few strips of chili pepper
salt

Thirty minutes, a few strips of chili pepper, tortillas, sprinkle d place on a May be Care must be take; electric, portable oven jis party amounts. They should once. By themselves a; serve them with a tossed green salad or sliced tomatoes.

There's ee