Theology - The Life and Ministry of the Savior
Lesson 7 - "Honored by Strangers, Rejected by His Own" 
Continuation of our Lord's Ministry in Galilee
Elder Don. B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapters 13 and 14, by Elder James E. Talmage)

For Tuesday, April 6, 1948

Objective: To prove that Jesus is no respecter of persons, but that his blessings are given to all who have faith in him, and who serve him.

In order for one to grasp fully the great work of our Lord, one must know something of the conditions existing among the people in the land where he lived his earthly life. Much bodily work was done, both by Jesus and his disciples, among the people of Samaria. The Samaritans were despised by the Jews, and, in time, this hatred became mutual. The inhabitants of both the province and city of Samaria were a mixed people. The province lay between Judea and Galilee. Assyrians and other heathen nations had intermarried with the Israelites of Samaria, yet all claimed to be descendants of Jacob. Geikie, in his Life and Words of Christ, says, "They (the Samaritans) became even more rigidly attached to the law of Moses than the Jews themselves." The Jews, however, would not recognize these people. Some of the practices between the two groups became utterly ridiculous. Hatred prevented any co-operation.
 
A Perry Picture
From a Painting by Bida (1813-1895)

The woman failed to see the spiritual meaning in his words. He then proceeded to give her a significant lesson:

Jesus answered and said unto her, "Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again: But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life" (John 4:13-14).

The woman could only see a possible saving of labor, while Jesus was promising eternal spiritual life to a thirsting soul. The Lord also gave the woman a demonstration of his power of discernment.

When he asked her to go get her husband, she replied: "I have no husband." Jesus said unto her, "Thou hast well said, I have no husband: For thou hast had five husbands; and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband." She knew, then, that she spoke to no ordinary mortal. Jesus had read her innermost thoughts and her past life.

The Samaritan, convinced that Jesus was, at least, a great prophet, went and brought a group of her townspeople. Prior to going, she had remarked: "I know that Messias cometh, which is called Christ: when he is come, he will tell us all things." To her utter amazement, Jesus replied: "I that speak unto thee am he" (John 4:25-26).

Disregarding the objections of his disciples, Jesus talked to these Samaritans and sowed the seeds that later resulted in a harvest of souls (Acts 8:5-14). The gospel is for every soul who will accept it. That truth was difficult for the disciples of Jesus to comprehend.

After leaving Samaria, our Lord went to Cana. He knew full well that Nazareth would reject him. His remark: "A prophet hath no honour in his own country," is often quoted. A remarkable event occurred at Cana. A nobleman of high rank came and pleaded with Jesus to go on to Capernaum and heal his son. This man was probably an official in Herod's government.

Jesus knew the man's thoughts and said unto him: "Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will not believe." The man, however, continued his importunities, and the merciful Savior finally said to him: "Go thy way; thy son liveth. And the man believed the word that Jesus had spoken unto him, and he went his way" (John 4:50). The son lived and both the man and his family accepted the gospel.

From Cana, Jesus went again to Nazareth. He found but little faith there. He did, however, go to their service in the synagogue on the Sabbath. He read from the roll, or book, that was handed him, from the sixty-first chapter of Isaiah, a passage specifically referring to the coming of the Messiah. When the eyes of all the congregation were turned toward him, he said: "This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears" (Luke 4:21). They scoffed at his claim and tried to throw him over the cliffs of a nearby hill. "But he passing through the midst of them went his way" (Luke 4:30).

At Capernaum and in other parts of Galilee, he preached in the synagogues and did many mighty miracles. He cast out evil spirits from those afflicted. Even the devil cried out: "I know thee who thou art; the Holy One of God." He healed the sick, and many were converted - too many probably - by reason of the miracles he performed.

Continuation of the Ministry in Galilee

The observant reader of the New Testament will be impressed with the humility of the Mighty One. He turned so frequently to the Father, whose work he had come to do, and was always so mindful of their relationship that one who wants to follow this great leader must needs be humble.

Simon Peter, and others, wanted Jesus to remain in Capernaum, but he said unto them, "I must preach the kingdom of God to other cities also; for therefore am I sent." As he journeyed, a man afflicted with the loathsome disease of leprosy knelt before him and humbly asked: "If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean." Jesus was touched by this pathetic and sincere pleading, and laid his hand upon the afflicted one and cleansed him of the leprosy, although he was full of it (Mark 1:40-45). The Lord fully demonstrated his obedience to law by telling the former leper to immediately report to the priest of the healing and to make the offering required under the Mosaic law. He further charged the man to keep silent regarding the miracle. The Savior quite generally discouraged any publicity.

Shortly after the event just mentioned, Jesus was again in Capernaum. In fact, he seemed to have made his home in this place more than in any other of the cities. He 61 was preaching one day in a house which was so crowded that there was no room nor any way for more people to get in to hear him. There was a man afflicted with palsy. Both he and his friends were anxious to reach Jesus, but were unable to do so. Finally, they devised the ingenious plan of going to the roof and either made a hole or took the sick man through the trapdoor and lowered him, by means of ropes and a mattress, until he was in the presence of Jesus. The Lord first looked with compassion on the sufferer and said: "Son, thy sins be forgiven thee!" The Jews, hearing this, accused him of blasphemy because they felt it was dishonoring God; that no one but God had the right to forgive sins. The Master however, made the statement to the Twelve: "Whose soever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them; and whose soever sins ye retain, they are retained" (John 30:23). This same power was given to Peter on a previous occasion. It is required of us that we forgive all men. God will forgive "whomsoever he will forgive."

A dispute then arose as to whether it is easier to forgive sins or to heal one afflicted with palsy. The Savior, in effect, answered by doing both. He spoke to the palsied man as follows: But that ye may know that the Son of man hath power on earth to forgive sins,... I say unto thee, Arise and take up thy bed, and go thy way into thine house" (Mark 2:10-11). The man obeyed and to the amazement of the people, was fully healed. The comforting statement, "thy sins be forgiven thee," seems to imply that the man may have been sinful but evidently was repentant, and the Lord was merciful.

Next, we find Jesus at the seaside. At this place, he called Matthew to be one of the Twelve. Although a despised tax collector, Jesus knew Matthew's ability. He was a great student of the Jewish scripture. In the book he later wrote, he quoted copiously from the prophets. It is said that every quotation from the Jewish scripture in the New Testament is found in the Book of Matthew. Jesus knew the true worth of souls.

Jesus here taught another of his immortal lessons, soon after Matthew became one of the Twelve. Some of John the Baptist's disciples came to the Master, claiming that he was not strict enough in observing the law. The disciples of Jesus were not fasting enough; they were dining with publicans and sinners; they were following the pursuits of life in a new way. To the feast Matthew had given at the time of his conversion and call to the ministry, some of the "publicans and sinners" had been invited. Then came the Savior's lesson: They that are whole have no need of the physician, but they that are sick: I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance (Mark 2:17). Even to this day, how true the doctrine! The spiritually sick need our help. The underprivileged child, the boys and girls who come from broken homes, and all who have strayed from the fold, call for someone who will minister to them in the spirit of the Great Physician.

Will the spiritual teachers of the Church find a way to help the straying souls? Jesus worked with that class. Will we?

The Lord knew the scriptures well, but he constantly offended the Jews by drawing his lessons from life rather than going to the cold letter of the law. One day, as he stood by the Sea of Galilee, a great crowd came to hear him. He improvised a pulpit by getting into a boat and having Simon move the boat a short distance from the shore. He delivered one of his powerful addresses. Drawing from the environment with which they were familiar, as all good teachers do, he said to his disciples: "Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men" (Mark 1:17). Most of them had been fishermen; they were now to fish for souls who could be shown the way to eternal life.

Questions and Suggestions for Discussion

1. In what way does the conversation between Jesus and the woman at Jacob's well show that he was no respecter of persons and that his teachings are for all people? The incident should be carefully studied. How was the Lord's power of discernment shown?

2. Jesus, of course, possessed the power to heal the sick. Relate an incident showing that this power was exercised even when the sick person was not present.

3. Give some of the evidence showing that Jesus always subjected himself to the wishes of his Father.

4. Relate the incident of the calling of Matthew to the ministry. Show that the Lord came to call sinners to repentance.