[Vol11 | June 1924 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: How to Analyze and Prepare Lessons]

HOW TO ANALYZE AND PREPARE LESSONS THEOLOGY Mrs. Julia A. Child, Member of General Board The first essential in preparing and presenting a lesson is to select the objective or aim of that lesson.

In the May lesson, three parables given by our Savior have been selected to teach certain specific lessons.

The first of these parables is the parable of the leaven.

"The kingdom of heaven is likened unto leaven which a woman took, and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened." Clearly, the purpose of giving this parable is to show the far-reaching influence of a great truth or principle.

We all know the power of a right idea.

We know when an idea is implanted in the mind of a child, or youth, or older person, that if that idea is deeply enough planted, it will go on and on and will'not die, but will act as the leaven in the meal.

If firmly rooted, good ideas and good-will go on until the whole world is leavened... The next parable is the parable of the hidden treasure.

It says, "Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a treasure hid in a field; the which, when a man hath found, he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field." This parable teaches us the value of the Kingdom of God.

In it our attention is called to the relative value of ideals.

Always through life we are confronted with the necessity of evaluating things, choosing that which seems the most desirable to have, whether it is good health or some other desirable thing.

We are always confronted with the necessity of choosing that which we would have.

Men must believe before they will act.

They must be devoted to their ideals before they will live for them or labor for them.

They must have a vision of what they hope to realize before they will make sacrifices to obtain that thing.

In this parable of the hidden treasure the finding of the treasure was a source of joy to this person.

But the appreciation of the value of that treasure awakened in him a desire io possess that treasure, even at the cost of all other possessions, The appreciation of this desire would not have been possible if the finder had been lacking a vision within him of the value of the treasure.

For example, take the converts to our Church.

After they have been thoroughly converted to the gospel, they will give up all they have previously possessed, if necessary, for the blessings of the kingdom of heaven; they will set aside all their -old customs, if necessary, for the testimony of the gospel.

When our young men and women are called upon missions, fathers and mothers do not count the cost in dollars and cents when they think of the experience this mission will give to the boy or girl, RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 291 Brothers and sisters sacrifice willingly to help carry the gospel message.

This is a joyful sacrifice, for each one who helps feels that he has a part in the building up of the kingdom of heaven, and service in the kingdom makes him a part of the kingdom, and service in this kingdom is not too great a price for a blessing in the kingdom.

The third parable is the parable of the Pearl of Great Price.

"Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchantman seeking goodly pearls; who, when he has found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it." The Savior was an excellent teacher; he chose familiar things with which to illustrate his parables.

He chose the subject of pearls in this _ parable, because that subject was close to the experiences of the people with whom he was talking.

In that country the people invested most of their goods in jewels.

In that country there were often revolutions and invasions, and people had often to gather up their possessions and rush from the country, and if their wealth was invested in jewels they could carry them more easily than anything else.

The pearl was one of the most precious jewels they had.

For that reason the Savior uses it to show the value of the kingdom of heaven.

The purpose of the Savior in giving this parable was to show that a knowledge and appreciation of the kingdom of heaven with its privileges and blessings would lead one to place all other values in a lower plane, and any person seeking happiness and desiring to obtain eternal life would sacrifice all else for it.

LITERATURE Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Member of General Board To me poetry is a beautiful expression of the human soul, and I think it is a splendid thing, sometimes, to soar to the heights out of the sordid and everyday things of life, through the medium of imagery.

If I were giving this lesson in a ward Relief Society, I should not give it all myself; I should only try to lead out and ask the members to do the work, to read the poems, and to tell the story.

We are told by Olive Schriner that greatness is to take the common things of life and to talk nobly about them.

Poets take the common things of life and show us the beauty therein.

The poet Burns, and nearly all other poets have that gift, Lowell shows us that beautiful quality in his poem, To the Dandelion.

James Russell Lowell was one of the most versatile of our American authors.

He was not only a poet but a critic, an orator, a scholar, a satirist, and a humorist; however, he was, I think, greatest as a poet.

In our past lessons we have learned that James a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Russell Lowell was one of the wonderful group of New England literary men, who established literary standards in America; that he was contemporary with Longfellow, Emerson, Whittier, Holmes; that his daily walks were along the elm-shaded paths and through the halls of Harvard University.

In the present lesson, two very beautiful pictures stand out in relief, so that an artist might paint in color without a model.

The first picture that presents itself is the picture of George Washington when he took command of the American army on July 3, 1775, under the old elm tree.

Within the year that is past, the Washington Elm, cherished very tenderly for years, has given way, making it necessary to pull it down and dig up the roots.

On the one hundredth anniversary of Washington's taking command of the army, Lowell's poem, Under the Old Elm, was read: Musing beneath the legendary tree, 7 The years between furl off; I seem to see The sun-flecks, shaken the stirred foliage through, Dapple with gold his sober buff and blue And weave prophetic aureoles round the head That shines our beacon now nor darkens with the dead.

O man of silent mood, A stranger among strangers then, How art thou since renowned the Great, the Good, Familiar as the day in all the homes of men!

The winged years, that winnow praise and blame, Blow many names out: they but fan to flame The self-renewing splendors of thy fame.

Do you see the picture?

Can you not go back to 1775 and see that great majestic figure of George Washington, under the spreading boughs of the elm tree, with the sunshine gleaming through its leaves and scattered in flecks on the buff and blue uniform, where he stands with his cocked hat and his sword at his side, taking command of the American army?

The writer of the lesson on the first page tells us of the visit that she made herself to the home of Lowell and she describes that home.

Any one at all familiar with New England knows that the topography of the country is mainly wooded hills and running brooks.

If you have read mother's poetry, you can almost smell the hemlock ana the spruce and pine of old New England, and here, shaded by these wonderful elm trees and the beautiful fir trees, stands the ancestral home of the Lowell family.

How fortunate that he was born, lived and died in that ancestral home.

A square house, three stories high, with three windows across the front of the third and second stories, and in the front of the first story, there is a beautiful arched door between the windows.

The house is painted buff with white trimmings—a frame house.

And from the studio window it is possible to look out and to see Mt.

Auburn, that little historic cemetery where so many of America's great are RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 293 buried, where Longfellow lies, where Lowell himself now lies, where Edwin Booth is buried, and other great American people.

Mt, Auburn has become noted in American history.

On a snowy day, when the snow had been falling all night, Lowell was looking from his study window at Mt.

Auburn, and he was inspired to write these words as he thought of a little mound, the grave of his own little daughter, Blanche, in Mt.

Auburn: The snow had begun in the gloaming And busily all the night Had been heaping field and highway With a silence deep and white. (See March Magazine for entire poem) SoctaL SERVICE Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Member of General Board In preparing and analyzing this lesson on social service, the first step is to state that the aim of the lesson is obtained by getting a view of it as a whole.

The next step is a consideration of the points of the lesson to be emphasized, usually four or five.

In order to get these points each paragraph is studied by itself. 1 selected five points in the lesson which I think are of vital importance to all members of this organization who have the great responsibility of assisting human beings, human beings with problems that they themselves are unable to solve unaided.

The first paragraph calls for a discussion of the causes which force people to turn with hope and trust to the bishop, to the Relief Society, or to some other agency for help.

What are these causes?

I am sure if we had time for you to answer that you would say, sickness, unemployment, insufficient income, ill health, or perhaps some behavior problem among the members of the family.

When any one of these problems becomes acttte and cannot be handled alone, then the individual calls for help.

The next paragraph emphasizes that the person who gives help and assistance has a responsibility toward those she is helping.

What is this responsibility?

It is that the advice be sound and the assistance helpful.

I would take the time at this point in the lesson to discuss the term, helpful assistance.

It means a great deal.

It means that an individual or a group must be made stronger—never weaker; that their strength should be ministered to rather than their weakness.

This is a great point in the lesson.

It would be difficult to overestimate it.

Helpful assistance means opportunities for health, for education, for spiritual growth, and the inspiration to better living.

It is no exaggeration to call this work great.

Its results in the words of Tennyson, "roll from soul to soul and grow forever and forever." 
 In reading the next three paragraphs I find this question, and its answer, “What must the relief worker do to insure sound advice and helpful assistance to those with social problems?" After looking after the emergency with material relief, she must get an understanding of the problem as a whole.

This requires a study of the individuals concerned and the getting of concrete facts, also the correct interpretation of these facts.

The example given in the paragraphs just mentioned is that of a man, the head of a family, out of employment.

What does that social problem in~ volve and how shall we best solve it?

These are questions.

He must have a permanent job, if possible, one that he is capable of holding.

There are some facts that the relief worker must know before this can be done.

She must know the work history of the man, whether he works at a seasonable trade, whether he is an industrial misfit and perhaps has been struggling for years with a job for which he is not fitted.

The fact that the man is out of a job may be only a symptom of a more serious difficulty.

It is important that his likings and his aptitudes be known.

These facts and many others may be known by talking with him, by getting his family's opinion, and by consulting with former fellow workers and employers.

It is sometimes found that the man is not the only one involved, but that his wife and children are included.

If the man has been out of employment for a long time, they may have been seriously affected.

Are the children properly nourished?

What is the condition of their health?

Do they need the care of a physician or a dentist?

Are their educational opportunities being curtailed?

Is their spiritual welfare being looked after?

Do they have the necessary clothes to go to - Sunday School?

As you know, the five elements of normal life are health, education, employment or income, recreation, and spiritual welfare.

The social worker should know the school records of the children and the attainments of the different members of the family; she should know their capabilities and ambitions, in fact, a real sympathetic understanding of the problem as a whole.

She must know the income and whether it can be increased by the family, or supplemented by others in order that the family can live a fairly normal life.

After getting all these important facts and all others that are valuable, after getting an understanding of the individuals and the conditions surrounding them, and after studying the social problems from all angles, then the social worker is in a position to give the best advice and most helpful assistance.

The next point in the lesson is, What does it take to study a social problem thoroughly and get down to the bottom of the difficulty?

The answer is, time.

It cannot be accomplished in one visit.

It requires hours of patient service.

It takes some- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 295 thing else.

The lesson says it takes a deep understanding of human interest, or in other words, the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is the spirit of love-—love of God and love of humanity.

The last point in the lesson is that the relief worker must keep sacred the confidences of the individuals whom she is trying to help.

They must be able to trust her completely, and to feel that she is indeed a true and sincere friend.

If she cannot get their confidence, she is unable to help them to the fullest extent to solve their problem.

They must trust her and must feel that she is sincere.

In summing up the points of this lesson, I would say that the aim is to show what is required of a relief worker in studying a social problem; that the helper has a responsibility in making her advice sound and her assistance helpful; that this requires a study of the whole problem and the possession of all valuable facts, and a knowledge of all the conditions affecting the problem; that this takes time and the spirit of the gospel.

You cannot help others if you do not love them.

If you are not deeply interested in them, your help will be of no avail.

You cannot help people with an air that you are above them, that you are another sort of human being altogether.

You must have that love for them and that sympathy and human desire to be able to help them.

The last point is that the worker must keep sacred the confidences of those she would help, if she would be successful in studying their social problems.

VISITING TEACHERS' TOPIC Miss Sarah M. McLelland, Member of General Board At our last conference President Williams requested that hereafter every stake instruct the teachers to discuss the teachers' topics in the homes of the people they visit.

It has also been suggested as an aid to the teachers that a few moments be set aside at the beginning of each work and business meeting for a discussion of these topics.

In some stakes teachers attend union meetings where the topic is discussed, but in other stakes there is not this opportunity.

Teachers should be instructed and prepared to take notes when the topic is discussed.

Much of the success of our organization depends upon the Relief Society teachers.

They are called the inspiration of the society and to be this inspiration they should make their messages important.

Just how to present atopic successfully is a problem.

We have, as teachers, the mothers of large families with many duties, we have young mothers just starting to solve the problems of life, and we have the convert who is willing to give a portion of her time to the work but feels new in the task.

A 
 helpful contribution in the discussion of the topic is often made by the families visited.

This is commendable.

Teachers and hostess should both be familiar with the teachers' topic and if teachers do not lead out in the discussion, the hostess should do so.

I would suggest that the teacher take her magazine with her and read aloud the topic.

This will help to open up the discussion.

The standard.

Of teaching must be high if we progress in this line of endeavor, and prayerful preparation will result in better service.

The teacher who is not converted to her work or who feels that she is not successful should not become discouraged, for the spirit of the calling comes often after one has put forth effort.

She should also pray for power equal to her task.

When teachers are inclined to lose heart and courage, they should bear in mind that any one who does her work in such a spirit as to reflect honor upon her work and upon herself, cannot possibly be counted as a failure.

Singleness of purpose, devotion to duty, and unremitting toil mark the road to success.

The failure in life is usually the one who was not prepared to do the things he had tried to do.

Any service that does not require self sacrifice is of little benefit.

In serving our God some of us give part-time service while drawing full-time pay.

We care for the office—not for the work.

"He who serves his brother best, Gets nearer God than all the rest." Teachers should appreciate the privilege of working as instructors under the direction of a prophet of the true and living God, who has said we can not be saved in ignorance, and should feel that this work is one of the greatest privileges the organization gives to its members.

An example of appreciating the opportunity of teaching is shown in the following incident: A district teacher told me recently that her husband wanted her to give up teaching.

He said she was over-burdened (being the mother of nine children). Her answer was this question: "Would you take the great joy which is my opportunity for public service, out of my life?" A careful study of the teachers' topics is absolutely necessary; so also is a careful study of the families to be visited in order to know best how to appeal to them.

Teachers visit homes of those who welcome them; also those who are indifferent.

It requires both experiences to develop us— everything has its opposite.

We are overjoyed when we are well received, and when our message is rejected, we are temporarily discouraged, but we put forth greater effort in order to succeed.

Teaching is not a minor calling; it is a holy calling.

The Bible teaches that "the eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee, nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 297 you." All activities have a place in this great organization.

In my experience as a teacher in the mission field, I found the Lord to be a good paymaster, not in gold and silver but in the satisfaction that comes to us only when we have done our duty.

RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE AIDS' CLASS Mrs. Emma A, Empey, Member of General Board The General Board regrets very much that it is necessary to announce that the Relief Society course for nurse aids at the L. D, S. Hospital has been temporarily suspended.

This action was taken in order to protect the standards of the L. D. S. Hospital.

It is hoped by all concerned, however, that within a short time, the course may be resumed.

You are all aware of the fact that high schools, universities, hospitals, and other institutions must maintain certain established standards, in order to have recognition, and in order to have the graduates of such institutions recognized, and it seems that the ruling with regard to hospitals is that unless a hospital has two hundred beds daily occupied, the American standards will not permit of such hospitals having two schools for nurses.

Recently a hospital inspector was here from New York, making a survey of the various hospitals throughout the west.

She intimated to the L. D. S. Hospital that in all probability there would be objections by the Hospital Commission to the course for nurse aids.

Soon after her return to New York, a letter was received by Supt.

Grant, of the L. D. S. Hospital, stating that in order to maintain its recognition, the L. D. S. Hospital must discontinue the course for nurse aids, Supt.

Grant and the Board of Trustees of the Hospital appealed to the national rating organization for special permission to continue the course, explaining the great need of the course, and the splendid results from it.

In reply, word was sent that the course must be cut out at once, or the hospital would be dropped from the list of accredited institutions.

So the Nurse Aids Class has been discontinued, but it is hoped only temporarily.

The class which had been installed last August was retained, but the new applicants who came in the first of the year were referred to the County Hospital, where they all entered the threeyear course., Since there is a feeling throughout the United States that something must be done in the near future to supply practical nurses for the people of moderate means, it is felt by everybody concerned that it will not be long until arrangements will be made in various hospitals throughout the country for a course shorter than the three-year course.

In the meantime, Supt.

Grant will RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE make every effort to re-establish the course at the L. D. S, Hospital, and it is hoped that not much time will elapse before this is done.

The Relief Society will for the time being continue to make every possible effort to recruit nurses for the various Church hospitals, and the Salt Lake County Hospital, and the General Board asks as a special favor that stake and ward presidents continue their support in these matters, and encourage young women to enter the hospitals for regular training.

GENERAL MEETINGS Morning Session President Williams "welcomed the large audience of Relief Society women who crowded the Assembly Hall to capacity, and extended to them the greetings of the General Board.

She expressed pleasure in the large attendance which she felt indicated the great interest of the women of the Church in the work of the Relief Society.: The speakers of the day were presented by President Williams, according to the scheduled program.

MRS. GRACE E.