[Vol54 | August 1967 | Page 599 | Poetry | In a Greenhouse Sudie | Stuart Hager]

Orchids in the Kitchen

Beth glanced quickly at me as she said, "I feel sure other people have probably worn flowers in the house, but the idea might not have occurred to me if I hadn't helped my mother take care of grandmother's belongings when she died about a year ago."

"Is the idea a secret?" I asked. "And what has it to do with wearing corsages in the house?"

"Grandmother's house was just full of lovely gifts that people had given to her, including a cedar chest that was filled to the brim with embroidered pillow slips, dish towels, tablecloths, and even a wedding-ring quilt top. Every thing was yellow with age. Mother said she had asked grandmother many times why she didn't use the articles, and grandmother always replied that she intended to when some special occasion arrived, only the occasion never came. Does that answer your questions?"

I felt a guilty feeling skip down my spine as I remembered all the gifts I had stored away, so I said defensively, "Not quite, because I think it is a good idea to have some lovely linens stored away for special occasions."

"I do, too," Beth answered, "but not like grandmother did. Just think of the time and effort friends and relatives expended in making the lovely gifts they gave to her. Now she is gone, and she didn't give herself any opportunity to enjoy them."

"Perhaps she received her pleasure in just knowing she had them," I suggested.

Beth looked at me skeptically for a moment, and then she said, "The scriptures tell us, 'For what doth it profit a man if a gift is bestowed upon him, and he receive not the gift?' Grandmother evidently never learned how to receive her gifts. Randy and I have decided to obtain as much joy and happiness out of our gifts now, today, as it is possible."

As I picked up the cup of sugar from the drainboard, I said thoughtfully, "I am surely glad that I came over today, Beth. I realize now that it is about time for my family, and me, to start enjoying a few orchids of our own."

TIME
Dixie Randall Oveson

Whoever said time flows or glides?
It swoops and jerks, drags, or flies.
For time is teasing, mean and dear—
It's here and gone; then gone and here.

Each hour and minute drags or fleets:
When time is needed, on it speeds.
When anxious, waiting for some word,
It hovers, stays, is never heard.

It's so elusive, no man yet
Has caught time in a human net.
With all our scientific skill
Time comes and goes just as it will!

599

[PHOTOGRAPH]

A TALENT FOR MAKING QUILTS AND COVERLETS

Katherine B. Weber, San Gabriel Ward, East Los Angeles Stake, California, contributes her talents for design and stitchery to her Relief Society organization. Each year she thinks of something new in color harmony or color contrasts, and something different in quilting patterns—something bright and cheerful for the children's beds, something lovely in "singing pastels" for the woman of the house—quilts and coverlets beautiful enough to serve as bedspreads—warm and comfortable for replacing blankets.

Sister Weber was born in Romania, and later moved to Germany, where she became a member of the Church in 1911. She came to the United States in 1932, for a temple marriage. After many, many moves, she "settled" in San Gabriel, where she has supervised quiltmaking in the ward Relief Society for many years. She has been a visiting teacher for forty years. Her homemade bread has been the "best-seller" booth at the bazaars ever since she joined the Relief Society in San Gabriel.

600
