[Vol54 | August 1967 | Page 564 | Special Feature | The Role of Relief Society in the Welfare Program Belle | S. Spafford]
Role of Relief Society in the Welfare Program hath said; therefore, if ye do keep his commandments he doth bless you and prosper you (Mosiah 2:22). President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., in outlining measures for our se-~ curity and welfare, said: "First, and above and beyond everything else, let us live righteously, fearing God and keeping his commandments, that we may claim his blessing as of right and not as of mercy only." The meaning which we attach to the term "welfare" greatly enlarges the scope of Relief Society welfare services, encompassing many activities not ordinarily regarded as welfare activities. It influences our approaches, our procedures, our goals in helping people. It brings to our services the spirit and the blessings of the Lord. In all of its activities, Relief Society works under the guidance and direction of the Priesthood. The Prophet Joseph Smith instructed the sisters in the beginning: "You will receive instructions through the order of the Priesthood which God has established... To lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church." This directive, of course, would be meticulously applied to its welfare services, which are among its most important activities. Through the years, as Relief Society has pursued its tender, merciful ministration, it has been able also effectively to meet the special requirements brought about by the differing circumstances of each succeeding era. The Nauvoo period was characterized by the administration of direct temporal relief. In this, the sisters were supported by the Prophet, who, at the founding meeting of the Society, after contributing a $5 gold piece, stated, "All I shall have to give to the poor, I shall give to this Society." It was during the Nauvoo period that a necessity committee was formed, which was the beginning of our present extensive visiting teaching program. The primary purpose of this committee was, "to search out the poor and suffering—to call on the rich for aid and thus as far as possible relieve the wants of all." Today, the visiting teaching program has taken on a new dimension as a resource of the bishop in obtaining, through the Relief Society ward president, either at the ward council meeting or the ward welfare meeting, significant information relative to the attitudes, circumstances, and needs of families, revealed to visiting teachers during their visits to the homes. This information becomes of value to the home teachers as they coordinate the efforts of Priesthood quorums and auxiliary organizations, under the direction of the bishop, in activating all family members, and in assisting them toward welfare, or well-being. The quality and extent of the visiting teaching service today is heartening. The annual report for 1966, which has just been compiled, shows that in the one-year period, approximately five million visits were made to Latterday Saint homes by faithful Relief Society visiting teachers. What a vast reservoir of valuable information this is to bishops of the Church in exercising watchcare over Latter-day Saint families! With the inauguration of the 

565 August 1967

 Church Welfare Plan, the Relief Society was relieved of administering direct temporal relief and of maintaining a separate charity account, and the Society became strictly a service organization. Its services, however, were expanded in a number of ways. The sisters were called upon more fully to devote their time to caring for members of the ward family. Emphasis was placed on training them to sew and cook and develop greater ability in all the arts of homemaking. With adroitness, mothers and other homemakers were taught how to get the most out of the means at their disposal. With consummate skill, mothers with special or more pronounced homemaking problems, were taught how to overcome these problems through the Relief Society homemaking meetings, and as often as deemed advisable, through special help in their individual homes. In addition, full support was given by the Society and its members to other facets of the Church Welfare Program as assigned to the Society by the Priesthood. Figures from our 1966 Annual Report reveal the nature and the extent of some of these services. During 1966, there were 100- 000 visits made to homes by ward Relief Society presidents at the direction of their respective bishops. These visits, made in the interest of the welfare of the family, followed the initial visit made by the bishop. In addition, 87,000 other contacts were made by ward Relief Society presidents as directed by their bishops. There were 765,000 hours contributed to welfare projects by 56,000 Relief Society members. There were 566 253,000 hours contributed by females receiving assistance. This, of course, was watched over and encouraged by Relief Society, as is the practice of having sisters who receive assistance make clothing for themselves and children, rather than to draw clothing from the bishop's storehouse made by some other sister. During 1966, there were 4,693 sisters who sewed for themselves and their families, most of whom were helped to do so by Relief Society. In addition, the sisters of Relief Society have done canning and have sewed clothing for storehouse distribution. They have given full support to the Deseret Industries by donating surplus items from their homes, and by shopping at the Deseret Industries stores. They have supported the Deseret Industries rag rug program, as well as the blanket factory, in disposing of surpluses. All of these services for the Church Welfare Program continue at present and will continue as long as the General Priesthood Welfare Committee so directs. May I call attention to the purposes of the Church Welfare Plan, once again, as printed in the Conference Report for October 1936, to which Bishop Vandenberg has already made reference? I quote from the First Presidency: Our primary purpose was to set up, in so far as it might be possible, a system under which the curse of idleness would be done away with, the evils of a dole abolished, and independence, industry, thrift and self respect be once more established amongst our people. The aim of the Church is to help the people to help themselves. Work is to be re-enthroned as the ruling prineiple of the lives of our Church membership (Conference Report, October 1936, page 3). The Role of Relief Society in the Welfare Program Now, with regard to this and Relief Society, the dissolution of the curse of idleness; the dispelling of the attitude that it is all right to get something for nothing; the establishment of the spirit of independence; the encouragement of industry and thrift, with their resultant self-respect; the need to glorify work as the ruling principle in the life of an individual, if he would be happy and productive — all of these have their beginnings in the attitudes, standards, and practices of the home. Indeed, the foundations of individual and family welfare are built in the homes. In a day when re-emphasis is being placed by the Church on the home as the training and governing center in the lives of family members, we must keep in clear focus the importance of the cardinal principles of human welfare as defined in the purposes of the Welfare Program, and the need for the home to meet its responsibilities toward them. Mothers are intimately involved in the attitudes and patterns of life adopted by their families in the homes. Relief Society, therefore, has the responsibility to guide, teach, and train the mothers in these fundamentals of good living. This, to me, is a vital welfare service of the Society. Relief Society is not a "load lifter' alone. It is also a great educational institution for women. It is clearly within the realm of Relief Society welfare to educate the sisters in the arts of homemaking, money management, home storage, thrift practices, legal responsibilities to insure protection and security for themselves and their families, and similar skills. Examples of a few of our homemaking lessons may _be of interest to you: "Wise Spending, Happy Ending" "Don't Let Your Yearning Exceed Your Earning" "Family Budgeting From Early Marriage to Retirement" "Wills—Estate-Planning'' "Project Thrift" Mothers also need help in child guidance, including how to meet the need to provide opportunities for children to carry responsibility and to be productively employed. Children must be taught to value work through having incentives for doing it, and through joyfully participating in it. Emphasis needs to be placed on adequately preparing children for life through education and training in order that they may favorably compete in today's highly competitive society and live selfmaintaining, self-directing lives. Relief Society must also rally to the support of a mother whose child may be a threatened school dropout. Through our specialized welfare program, we have learned that a child often bolts school because he cannot keep up with his classes due to his inability to read well. Could not a Relief Society sister who is a schoolteacher, or possibly a retired schoolteacher, or some other sister competent in teaching, help by providing tutoring service for the child? Mothers must also be taught how to plan for fruitful days for themselves when family members are no longer with them, and also to prepare themselves for the so-called aging years by developing worthwhile interests that will engage their time and keep them active 

567 August 1967

 and productive. Otherwise, these aging years may become years of idleness and frustration. In addition to all of these services, it may be of interest to you that the Relief Society is assigned by the First Presidency responsibility for conducting for the Church specialized welfare services requiring license, such as the care of unmarried mothers, adoption services where needed, foster-home care for dependent or neglected children. Licensed agencies are presently maintained by the Church in Utah, Arizona, and Nevada. It is anticipated that we will go into Idaho in the near future. In the States where the Church does not maintain a license to render specialized services, we would be glad to offer guidance or counseling service if you wish to communicate with us. Relief Society presidents are cautioned against entering into adoption arrangements, since this is a specialized welfare service regulated by law. Relief Society's role in the Welfare Program of the Church is a broad and a continuing one. In discharging its responsibility, as directed by the Priesthood, the Society prospers, and the recipients of its service have cause to rejoice and pour forth blessings on its head, as was predicted by the Prophet Joseph Smith. I am grateful for the opportunity that we have to be associated with our Priesthood leaders in this very important aspect of Church work. (— THE MELODY LARK y Vilate R. McAllister In the sandbox the children are busy at play— I watch from my window—wide-open today. It is springtime. The pear tree is lovely with bloom, And the lilacs contribute a heady perfume. From the maple tree suddenly bursts a sweet strain Of gladness, repeated again and again. The children are listening. Johnny says, ''Hark! I know who is singing: a Melody Lark!' "You mean a meadow lark, don't you?" ''Oh, no! It's a melody lark—my Grandpa s
