[Vol54 | August 1967 | Page 580 | Special Feature | Our Garden | Barbara Dowdle]
579 Borden Barbara Dowdle ¢ The summer of 1966 we raised a garden. Besides enjoying the wonderful harvest of vegetables and fruits from that garden, our family enjoyed a feeling of unity and responsibility while working together on a family project, and it was a real joy to see the children participate in the miracle and creativity of planting and harvesting. We also found that our garden project was a lot of hard work. In the early spring I formulated my plans. "We are going to raise a garden," I informed our five children, ages two to thirteen years. "There is that space in the back yard beyond our lawn, and we may just as well use it all for the garden as have it grow up in weeds." I will admit that it did seem an ambitious project, for I was ex- 580 pecting my sixth baby in September, and my husband was far away in Viet Nam. None of us knew much about raising a garden, and we didn't know anything about irrigating one. But I felt that the children needed some responsibility during the long summer 'days ahead, and so we planned our garden. The first plan called for clearing the ground of all the cornstalks that had been planted there the year before, and that fell to me. I spent days out there raking and hauling off stalks, clods, and big rocks. Then it was time to buy the seeds, and that was a joyful part of our garden plans. I spent a long time looking over all the different seeds and decided to be experimental. I had never seen honeydew melons growing, so I bought a package of seeds to see what the melons would do in our garden.

[Our Garden Barbara Dowdle]

Finally, I decided on pumpkins, squash, cucumbers, and cantaloupes, as well as peas, beans, lettuce, potatoes, carrots, and beets. I might just pause to mention that if it had not been for my father and mother, who lived in a nearby town, our garden would probably still be in the planning stage, for when it came time to plant the seeds, Daddy was there to oversee the project. He marked off the distances between the rows and marked the rows while we planted the seeds in the furrows he made. I carefully marked the rows with empty seed packages, but little four-year-old Chris went out the next day and gathered all the markers, so we didn't know for a long time just where we had planted what. When I wrote to my husband about our garden and the great plans we had for it, he had only one comment... "Please get the rows straight.' For the most part, our rows were straight, but there was one place I did zigzag a little; every time I worked there I would get a guilty feeling, but that was where I planted the huge Klondike watermelons at the last moment, so I didn't think he would mind. The garden was a constant worry, work, and effort, from the sprinkling to bring the plants up, to making the irrigation rows afterward. The several late spring frosts really kept us hustling. I remember one midnight—a school night, too. It became clear to me that it was going to freeze, and all those unprotected plants out in the garden must get covered quickly. I got the three oldest Our Garden girls out of bed, and we all put on warm clothing and got to work. We couldn't find the flashlight, so we had to use candles out there -in the garden. Later, I thought about the weird sight we must have made out there. The next morning we found that about half our garden was frozen and gone, so the only thing to be. Done was to buy more seeds and try again. That was when I decided to buy the watermelon seeds. It was near the first of June, and I didn't even imagine we would actually harvest any melons, but it would be fun to see them grow anyway. Because our garden was so big, roughly a quarter of an acre, at least, it took us all to keep the weeds out. Almost automatically, the girls and I would reach for shovel or hoe every time we were outside. We learned all the intricacies of irrigating, too. I would be up and out irrigating by fivethirty in the morning many times. It was really pleasant to be up and outside working at that early hour and hear all the good country sounds. I would have missed all that without the garden, for I am not naturally an early riser. We discovered that all of us differed as to where our talents lay. Twelve-year-old Karen wasn't too thorough as a weeder, but she seemed very talented in shoveling out the irrigation rows which filled up with mud easily from water running down them. Eightyear-old Moana was a very good weeder, and_ thirteen-year-old Dean almost took over the irrigating. I shall never forget little Chris out watching the watermelons grow. Every day he would go out and examine them, and he talked about them all summer. 

581 August 1967

 Much to our surprise, we picked about a dozen ripe watermelons off those vines when September came. The long dry summer turned out to be good for melons. I never knew before there was such a difference between a fresh, ripe watermelon picked off the vine and one bought in a store. Our two rows of peas did very well, also. We all stood out in the patch and ate the peas right from the vine. We just couldn't help it; they tasted so good that way. We had only one meal of fresh-cooked peas at the table. Even two-yearold Danielle learned to eat peas off the vine, and when the beans came on, she was right out in them eating the same way, only she called the beans peas. We had a good harvest of potatoes, but our beets hardly came up, for they were flooded when that part of the garden sank a little. Our tomatoes were blighted, but we had enough for our table use. Squash bugs got most of the squash, but the pumpkins grew to huge sizes. We found that we were swamped with cucumbers, and all the cantaloupes and honeydew melons really were delicious.