THE BRITISH CORONATION
fore the altar he swears to maintain the statutes, laws and customs of the realm, to use justice and mercy in all his judgments, and to maintain the laws of God and the Protestant religion. In olden times the Coronation service lasted three days and nights but in the last two or three centuries it has been greatly shortened and revised, although no fundamental change has been made for eleven centuries. For the present Coronation the Archbishop of Canterbury has fixed the actual service to cover only two and one-fourth hours. The people will start arriving at 6 a. m. and are expected to be in their seats by 9 a.m. A luncheon will be supplied in the Abbey.
WHAT a splendid spectacle a Coronation is! The rich old Abbey is thronged with peers and peeresses in their robes of state, and with royal and other guests; and "all down the immense vista of arches there is one blaze of scarlet and gold." In addition to the dignity, grandeur and solemnity of the occasion there is also a joyous aspect in which the populace may join. The streets are profusely decorated, bells peal, cannons boom, banners wave and crowds in gay colors throng the streets and with joy and excitement shout, God Save the King. Miles of Coronation seats which line the route of the procession are filled with people who sit for hours to witness the great pageant, good naturedly eating their meals which are included in the price of the seats. For the ceremony on May 12th Westminster Abbey has been thoroughly renovated, newly furnished, seated and carpeted, richly and gorgeously decorated in crimson, gold and blue colors. It will no doubt
be thronged with the most representative gathering of national life that it is possible to imagine: Royalty; church and state; lords and commons, the judiciary; army and navy; foreign representatives and other special guests. There will be people from every part of the British Dominions beyond the seas; from the frozen waters of the St. Lawrence, the Rocky Mountains, the Indian jungles and the islands of the sea—all desirous of showing their loyalty and devotion to Empire and Crown, and to the King himself. The Queen mother has announced her intention of witnessing the crowning of her son, which is a departure from the precedent set by Queen Alexandria. A specially decorated box in blue and gold will be provided for her and her personal attendants. The two little daughters of the King will also attend the ceremony— Princess Elizabeth, the eleven-year-old heir apparent, and Margaret Rose.. The procession from the Abbey to the Palace will, it is expected, be a most gorgeous and magnificent pageant, surpassing all previous ones. It will be two miles long and will cover six miles en route. It will include the King and Queen; Queen Mary; the royal family (the princes and princesses of royal blood); visiting royalty, including the picturesque Indian princes in their colorful robes and glittering jewels; ecclesiastical dignitaries, governmental representatives; officers of state, foreign representatives and their attendants; special guests; military escorts, overseas troops, etc. There will be included representatives of every race.
THE King and Queen will ride in the Royal glass coach of state which will be placed near the end
KING GEORGE VI, QUEEN ELIZABETH, PRINCESS ELIZABETH AND PRINCESS MARGARET ROSE
of the procession. It was built in the year 1762, but has been entirely regilded and redecorated. It will be drawn by eight bay horses with crimson harness decorated with crimson ribbon and gilt coats of arms. These horses were selected on the basis of appearance, health, good behavior in crowds, and indifference to noises. For months they have been drawing vans and equipages through the streets of London in preparation for their part in the great procession. More than fifty miles of London streets will be decorated; the decorations to exceed in extent and magnificence anything ever before attempted. The main colors are to be red, white and blue with numerous new shades and tints. London is preparing for thou-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
sands of visitors. Arrangements have been made to seat 7,700 in the Abbey and 85,000 in reserved seats along the route of the procession, with reserved standing places for 30,000 more. The seats have all been thoroughly tested for strength. The Queen's Coronation gown will be white or ivory satin heavily embroidered in gold, and her robe and train will be purple velvet embroidered in gold and trimmed with ermine. A new crown has been made especially for her. The jewels which consist of diamonds only, will be set in platinum. The King's Imperial Crown is a blaze of jewels containing 2,783 diamonds, 227 pearls, 17 sapphires, 11 emeralds and 5 rubies. Golden lame has been chosen by Queen Mary for her gown. It will be elaborately decorated with lovely embroidery. The Princesses Elizabeth, and Margaret Rose will be dressed in white and wear purple robes.: The Earl Marshall has decreed that only white and cream dresses may be worn by the ladies aside from the gold and silver for peeresses' robes. The Coronation court gowns will be fashioned after the formal evening dress with the addition of a train. For months women in court and official circles have been preparing their elaborate wardrobes for the great events. Old jewels have been reset and new ones purchased. Dress makers, milliners and jewelers have surely profited by their expenditures. Nor is the finery confined to women. Men, including royalty, nobility, ecclesiastics, government officials, army and navy officers, etc., will indeed compete with the opposite sex in the color brilliancy and gorgeousness of their dress and adornment. An outstanding exception will be
THE BRITISH CORONATION
the American Ambassador, who will wear plain evening clothes, and who will probably be the only one thus attired.
MANY social functions will follow the Coronation and extend over the whole summer. The festivities will begin May 5 and continue until July 22. They will include banquets, garden parties, military and air force revues, receptions, concerts, balls, theaters and grand opera. The official program includes court presentations, state banquets, palace garden parties and two court balls at Buckingham Palace on May 14 and 26, with 1,500 guests at each, making a total of 3,000 guests who will attend the two events. At the first there will be a great gathering of princes and princesses, politicians of almost every nation with their wives, the diplomatic corps and other specially invited guests. Each ball will last two and one-half hours— from 10 to 12:30. On each occasion the King will start the dance with a lady guest, the Queen will come next with her partner. King George is the youngest British monarch to ascend the throne since the time of Queen Victoria. Among his attendants and associates
and those of the Queen will be found a large number of young men and women and debutants. The Queen has chosen as her four canopy holders and her six train bearers young peeresses ranging in age from 17 to 22 years. Both the King and Queen are fond of dancing, a fact that will make their parties, balls, and other social functions the gayest of the century. In honor of the Coronation many gracious offerings and courtesies are being extended. As a good will gesture the Government is allowing a Coronation grant to the unemployed —an extra payment of half crown and a shilling for each child. To show his interest. In the industrial areas King George has sent personal invitations to four working people—two men and two women—to attend the Coronation Service in Westminster Abbey. One of the men is a tin plate polisher and the other a coal miner. One woman is an employee of the General Electric Co., and the other a carpet weaver. The latter in expressing her joy said, "Little did I think when I was weaving the gold carpet for the Coronation that I would be present for the historic event, and see it in the Abbey."
NOW AND THEN By May H. Marsh
Brave little mother with three little boys, One right after the other, Grant and Billy are mere babies yet, And now, a new little brother.
But after their baby years have all passed, And one right after the other, They grow into handsome and manly men, Oh! What a proud little mother!