Nellie O. Parker By Evelyn N. Wood
NELLIE O. PARKER comes to the General Board with the best wishes and love of all who know her. When such women are called to this high office, it is not hard to see the workings of the Spirit of Inspiration in the selection of our leaders. She comes well prepared; schooled in spirit and mind, even as a rose full blown in a shady glen gives willingly of its perfume and beauty, gathered from a life time of purposeful living. But even as with the rose, there has been a time of preparation, a gathering of the opportunities around, to mellow her judgment and soften her heart. Born into a home
NELLIE O. PARKER
where individual effort counted much, she was early taught the values of life by a frugal mother. Two quotations remained in her memory from early childhood: "Remember, life is just about what you make it," and "Where there is a will, there is a way." These stood out as beacons, lighting each avenue whereon she must travel. But this was only part of her training. Her father was an exact complement to her mother and of a highly spiritual nature. Nellie, as a composite picture of both of them was able to put order in her days, sweep out the clutter, and keep her mind and body strong and clean in order to reach her goal. They gave her a passion for accuracy, but not at the expense of beauty. She possesses a sensitive awareness of the motives and feelings of people, so that with the least effort, she is able to get the best from her associates.
SHE had been taught that the purpose of every Latter-day Saint life is to give willingly of her time and talents to the Church. With a conviction that the Spirit of the Lord can make even the ordinary man, extraordinary, she resolved to take advantage of this leadership training. At the age of thirteen she was called to be secretary of the Primary, and later a teacher. Then the Gleaner class was a real thrill to her, and later as President of the Mutual, she received a fine training in the viewpoint of young people.
SISTER PARKER was graduated from the Brigham Young University, and taught in the Provo schools for four years before she
NELLIE O.
Joined Brother Parker, then a struggling young man with an ambition for law. During their stay at the University of Michigan, she was able to further satisfy her hunger for knowledge, by taking courses along with her husband.
HER first introduction to Relief Society Board work came when she was asked to be assistant secretary on Sister Keeler's board of Utah Stake. She had previously taught the Literary lessons in the ward in those intervals between five babies. When her husband was appointed Attorney General for the State of Utah, they left Provo to make their home in Salt Lake City.
BESIDES her work in the Church, Sister Parker has been very active in social organizations. A natural-born executive, she has been president of the Nelke Reading Club, Sorossus, Delphian, and president of the Uintah Parent Teacher's Association. Under her leadership the first Summer School in the Uintah School District was organized.
IN THE spring of 1929, just a few months after she had come to Salt Lake, Sister Emmeretta Brown called Sister Parker to the Granite Stake Board as the Literary teacher. Then when Sister Latimer was taken as the counselor, Nellie was asked to take her place as the Social Service Leader, and when Sister Latimer was made the new president, she asked Sister Parker to be her counselor. But events were happening fast; a new Stake, Highland Stake, was to be created, and she was to become its first Stake President. Under this new position she grew and developed easily and graciously. Her Board was efficient, each one doing her best, not because she was driven, but when in her presence it was just naturally ex-
PARKER
pected that each give her all; she was the sort of person to whom one willingly gave allegiance. She believed that while Relief Society must take care of the physical needs of the people in the Church, that it must also offer cultural training for women. She therefore sought to encourage every advantage for the educational guidance of mothers. In accordance with this spirit, Ward libraries were encouraged. Each woman was urged to contribute a good book. The Stake also collected a library, which was at the disposal of any Ward at its request. Some of the Wards were able to collect as many as 150 books in one year.
BUT the practical side of her must also have its turn, and she conducted a demonstration of the uses of made-over clothing, All the women were encouraged to make something useful and good looking, from something used, and all of these were placed on display at the Stake House. Those who love her have memories that stand out on the horizon of her leadership, memories of situations that could have caused feelings and friction. Odd little occasions that no one could have anticipated were thrust upon her. There would be a tense moment, as all waited, with faces turned toward her. Then somehow her arms would go around two people, a nice comment would be made about the integrity of both. All was running smoothly again, before many knew that a crisis had been passed. Her oil of human kindness and understanding soothed many troubled waters before even those waters knew that a storm had been nigh.
IN the Spring and Summer, troubles began to arise at home. Her husband needed more of her
time. For just a moment she was confused. Then with that clear vision that she possessed, her mind was made up. There must be no room for regrets. The promise that she had made to herself on her wedding day, that nothing should ever come before home and family stood out in her mind. She was constant in her devotion and so courageous throughout his long sickness. No sacrifice was too great if it was for her home or her family. She was just beginning. There were so many wonderful things that she could see to be done. She had been given only one year to accomplish all that her heart told her she could do. But it was not hard for Sister Parker to give it up, and never would she consider it a sacrifice. Hers was the happy faculty of being able to adjust to any condition and finding a way to be happy in it. Her resignation was sent in to President Ashton and accepted. That one never loses out by doing the thing
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
that is right, has always been one of her firm convictions. Whether she was conducting the affairs of her home, presiding at a Board Meeting, or standing by the side of her husband, she was master of the situation, doing the task ahead with a sweet dignity and poise that was remarkable. Quiet, unassuming and rather shy she has never pushed herself forward, but has been called to many responsible positions. She has never sought greatness, but greatness has come to her. As she has served, each one of her experiences had enriched her background and understanding. She comes to the General Board well seasoned in wisdom and vision, and with a humility that reassures her heart that the Lord never asks us to do anything, but what He spreads a mantle of inspiration around us, that we may be able to accomplish the task He requires of us.
MRS. SARAH ALLRED AND HER SEVEN LIVING DAUGHTERS
Lace Stockings By Mary Ek Knowles
ELLEN was rinsing the last of the week's wash when the phone rang. She turned off the washer, wiped her wet hands on a hand towel, stepped with amazing skill over blocks, toys, and a rag dog with one eye, and cautioned Denny to "be quiet while Mummy answers the phone." "Hello." It was Paul. Her heart skipped a beat, her dark eyes softened. Nice to feel that way about your husband after eleven years of married life. "Mrs. Dale," Paul's voice informed her with studied seriousness, "we're going out to a dinner at the Plaza Hotel." "A dinner dance, Paul? When?" "Tonight." "Tonight! But Paul—'" If that wasn't just like a man, "I haven't—" "Don't tell me you haven't anything to wear. Go to town. Buy something. It's going to be a big affair. See you tonight, sweetheart."
ELLEN hung up the receiver with a steady hand. Must get a wave. Hire Nora Daniels to tend Denny. She frowned at her reddened hands. Wouldn't have washed if she had known. If only there were more time. * * * Then excitement possessed her. She swooped up golden-haired Denny, hugged him tightly, sang, "Mummy's going out tonight * * * going to a dinner dance * * *" stirred the soup—the three older children would soon be home for lunch—put Denny down, and took the budget book from the cupboard. She would have to buy a dress. No hope of renovating the thrice-altered blue crepe. And shoes. And by all means, stockings. Her one and only good pair had a darn in the heel. For fifteen minutes while the little Dutch clock ticked on the wall and Denny built a leaning tower of blocks, she juggled figures on a piece of white paper, her forehead wrinkled, her dark head bent. "Fourteen dollars and sixty-five cents—no —say fifteen dollars,'—she finally announced aloud." That meant, of course, letting the doctor bill and the payment on the piano go until the first, but—Oh, if only she could buy a dress like Aunt Jasmine had worn to the Andrews last week. Couldn't pay as much, of course. Aunt Jasmine had a good paying position, alimony from her divorce, an apartment with maid service and—no children. It was with a feeling of high adventure and reckless, luxurious extravagance that Ellen began the afternoon that clear April day. It is rare indeed for the mother of four growing children to have $15.00 to spend on herself. Not that it would always be that way. Things were a little close now with Paul just starting in business for himself, but some day—well—some men had the ability to get ahead. Paul was one of them. She entered the first shop and told the stout, beaming saleswoman her need. "Dinner dress?" She piloted Ellen over deep-piled rugs to the realm of glass cases, soft lights, and long mirrors. She brought out a peach-colored taffeta dress, long and full,
with a short, demure jacket." Exquisite, isn't it? You can just step in here—" Ellen caught her breath for the sheer loveliness of the gown, but held up her hand. "I'm afraid—how much is it?" "Just $29.50. A bargain at that price, isn't it?" "Yes, but—" Ellen hesitated, feeling stupid and painfully conscious of last. Year's black felt hat and the darn in her left heel. "Haven't you something a little less—" The saleswoman lifted her arched eyebrows and sniffed audibly. "I'm afraid not. We don't carry cheap merchandise." She turned her back on Ellen with an injured, hurt air.
WHY, Sue Daniels never paid more than ten dollars for a dress, Ellen consoled herself when she was again outside. Of course Sue was smaller, easier to fit—. Suddenly Ellen laughed. That awful saleswoman. What fun she would have telling Paul about it. "* * * she looked surprised, darling, and she sniffed, just as if I'd suddenly pulled a dead fish out of mid-air and held it under her nose!" Surely, in the next shop she would find just what she wanted. Still, for all her optimism, that heady feeling of excitement was gone. She felt tired, let down. No wonder. She had had no lunch! In the last minute'rush of finishing the washing, giving Nora instructions about Denny and getting herself ready to go she had entirely neglected that little matter. She hurried down the street and into "The Red Robin." A bowl of soup, and a sandwich, they would take away that gaunt, empty feeling.
ELLEN McCARTHY." She turned suddenly at the sound of her name. Saw Marjory Adams,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Drucilla Lane, and Judy Allan at a nearby table. And suddenly the years rolled back. She was a schoolgirl again. Hurrying from classes to lunch with this same trio. She hurried towards the table, clasped slim white hands in her own, kissed Marjory on the cheek and seated herself in the empty chair. Everyone talked at once. "This is a reunion. First Marjory, then Drucilla, now Ellen." "It's been years—" "Twelve years—" "Don't remind me!" Ellen looked at the three women. They didn't look any older. The three pretty school girls had become three smartly clad, sophisticated women. That hat of Judy's—black straw, plain, but so smart, with the tiny nose veil. And Marjory. The sheer blue wool dress she wore cried Paris and Chanel in every line. As for Drucilla. No one could wear tailored things with quite the same dash as she. Ellen felt suddenly self-conscious. She straightened her hat, and hid her rough hands beneath the table. She must look like a little brown wren alongside them. The conversation turned to the subject of what each had been doing in the twelve years since they last met. -Marjory had been in Paris studying art. She clasped her long, perfectly manicured hands and told of the exhibit of her work to be held that summer in New York. Her etchings were attracting no little attention, she informed them with a proud little lilt in her voice. Drucilla asked what she thought about the future of modernistic Art, and Ellen felt herself suddenly shut out. She remained silent, trying to keep pace with their clever, brilliant talk.