Motherhood For gift of Motherhood, dear Lord, We give Thee thanks to-day, For all the joys and all the cares It brings to bless our way. For sacred hours when light of life Burns dimly, while Thy power A hallowed radiance sheds around To bless our travail hour. For taste of life's most poignant joy? For strength to bear life's sorrow? We thank Thee Lord, and pray for grace To meet each fair to-morrow. Love's magic weaves a mystic spell More sweet than many others, When first we join our hands with Thine And thus become?Thy. Mothers. Magdalene C. Stephens (A 'Singing Mother") A Wish And A Promise TO LOUIE WALSH DAVIES* By Gladys Davies Ellis How I wish I could make a song for you, Low,. And soft, and sweet. But, alas, no song that I can write Ever seems complete. Not even the melody played on the harp Can take the place of the magic Of you in my heart. I seem to see your lovely face In every movement of the throng, I see your sweetness and your grace In every flower and every song. The only song I can write for you Is a song of sweet similitude. And so I will, for your dear sake, All shining and lovely prove, I'm just an ordinary girl transformed Made beautiful because of your love, MY MOTHER. Louise Walsh Davies has not only been a loving mother to five children, but she has given most devoted service to the Church for over forty years. She was an organist in the Twenty-first Ward at the age of fourteen, and for forty years served that Ward and the Twenty-seventh Ward, not only as ward organist, but as organist in many of the organizations. She was also President of the Mutual for years in the Twenty-seventh Ward. She has been the organist in the Salt Lake Temple for thirty years. She has never been tardy nor absent except when ill or out of the City. Surely this is a record to be proud of. "LOOK at the CONSERVADOR" on this new 1937 FAIRBANKS-MORSE REFRIGERATOR The "conservador," as illustrated, holds all the foods you want to get at in a hurry! It has been declared by leading and engi "AS THE MOST SENSATIONAL REFRIGERATOR ACHIEVEMENT IN 5 YEARS! $129.50 2 YEARS TO PAY! SUPPLEMENT Complete Cleaning your teaching aids. Standard Church Works Supplemental Texts Bible Dictionaries Charts, maps, pictures, etc. Positive Moth Sprayer Powerful Hand Cleaner $56.95 Value NOW $39.95 and your old cleaner Headquarters for all L. D. S. Literature. DESERET BOOK COMPANY Salt Lake City 175 East Broadway Was. 1448 Salt Lake City, Utah