Little Moments of Eternity
WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? MEMORIES Take Time To Meditate By Lella Marler Hoggan
"Day after day as the swift moments fall, We are hanging pictures on Memory's wall. The painter is ready, and dark or fair, Our thoughts and acts are pictured there." —Selected.
YOUTH looks to the future, age, to the past. Youth plans her achievements. Age remembers her victories. The vision of today becomes the reality of tomorrow. And the accomplishment of the present will be the memory: of the future. Youth chooses the career of age, patterns her ideals, determines her vocation, selects her com-
panion, and in a measure, forms the habits that will bind age hand and wrist or will lift her to the glory of the stars. "Tomorrow will hold in her outstretched hand The fruit of her yesterday's seeds." Today is the warder of the gates of tomorrow. Are we going to let things enter into the present that will defeat the purpose of the future? Let us rather pray with Henry David Thoreau: "Sweet God I ask Thee for no meaner pelf Than that I may not disappoint myself."
OUR memories are what we make them. What beautiful, permanent things can we put into life today that will shed a halo far into the future and help us to overcome every difficulty? Memory is one of the choice gifts of life. We can lift ourselves out of the deepest abyss of sorrow or despair, on the golden wings of memory. "I love old roads that lure my feet Along the way of quiet streams, With rustic spans where I may pause And weave a golden web of dreams." —Grace Ingles Frost.
LET us watch for the glad moment when we may reach out and help a fellow voyager over the river of experience that we have crossed with so much effort and solicitude. Have we experienced the pleasure of reading to some blind person for a few minutes every week? Do we ever write letters for the palsied old lady next door? Have we learned how to "play house" graciously with the little children in our home? Do we put vision and beauty into the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
stories we tell to the neighborhood girls and boys? Does the gift we carry to some little discouraged mother bring hope with it and forward looking joy? Have we learned that we must never, never suppress nor betray the confidences of our children when they come to us with their high hopes and their far-reaching ambitions? "Each day I seek for higher, better paths Than feet of mine have ever trod.— Paths nearer to my brother man And closer to God." —G. W. Hendricks.
SOMETIMES a word of hope, a reminder of present virtues or past achievements has saved a discouraged person from the brink of sin or despair. Many a child has cherished in memory some precious letter or lovely promise that has led him to greater heights and finer accomplishments. Our blessing resting over our children as a benediction, will not only cheer and comfort them but it may be a saving factor in some crucial hour of temptation.
A MOTHER and a daughter once exchanged gifts at the beginning of the year with the thought that these tokens would commemorate a loving understanding between them. 'Whenever you use this little gift," said the mother, "think of me, and try to do the thing that will bring your life to the sweetest, the happiest and the highest plane possible. And when I use my gift I shall think of you, and shall try to be to you what my mother has been to me, a joy, a strength and an inspiration. And no matter how far apart we may chance to be let us each pray for the other's welfare and happiness, that this little pact may hold us to the right and lift us to the heights. If
LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY
we lose or break the gift, never mind, it is only a symbol of the reality the memory of which can never be lost, and we can still build our hopes on the remembrance of what has been." "Let Fate do her worst, there are relics of joy, Bright dreams of the past, which she cannot destroy. * * * * * You may break, you may shatter the vase if you will, But the scent of the roses will hang round it still." —Thomas Moore.
LET us cultivate the habit of never retiring to our beds at night without having read something inspiring, or having listened to a lovely melody, or looked at a beautiful picture, or done a kindly deed during the day. An elderly lady once told how she kept a little Book of Happiness. Each night she recorded in the book some pleasant incident of the day. "This practice," said she, "keeps me always alert to the lovely events of life. If nothing occurs worth recording during the day, I make it my business to bring about some beautiful happening. I go in search of joy and I always find it, and incidentally share it with someone else." Another woman who wove her memories into beautiful quilts and
rugs said, "They remind me of the dresses I wore to weddings and picnics and celebrations of all sorts. To look at them is like looking at a picture book." Relics, souvenirs, photographs bring pleasant memories. Scrap books may be made rich in wit and wisdom. And the person who collects and memorizes choice poems and bits of prose, adds a wealth of beauty to his vocabulary and an inspiration to his living. "So there are a hundred ways To the long-lost yesterdays, Where our youth forever gleams— Down and down the road of dreams." —Wilbur D. Nesbit.
IF life is rich in service and sacrifice and is forever sustained by the assurance of divine guardianship, there will be no depths of despair that we can not overcome and no heights of glory that we may not aspire to reach. And from the wealth of a full and wholesome life will come our glad memories, memories that will hold us to the fulfillment of our dreams. "From what oil I could find in the valleys of truth, And what wick I could weave from the threads of my thought, I have lighted a lamp, with the dreams of my youth, And lifted to those who have toiled and have fought." —Selected.
NO man can be provident of his time who is not prudent in the choice of his company.—Jeremy Taylor.
IF you wish to be held in esteem, you must associate only with those who are estimable —Bruyere.
BETWEEN two evils, choose neither; between two goods, choose both.— Tryon Edwards.
WHEN peace rules the day, where reason rules the mind.—Collins.