Judy had made a name for herself in the world of music and she had "dabbled a bit, with no little success,
LACE STOCKINGS
my dears," in the theater, under the name of Anna Tanya. The talk veered to the latest plays on Broadway. Again Ellen was on a lonely island. Drucilla was private secretary to a big steel king. "But weren't you and Larry Downes engaged to be married?" Judy asked. Drucilla laughed a short, hard laugh. "I recovered from that. He had some impossibly old-fashioned ideas about marriage, children, and love in a cottage." "Not really!" "Mid-victorian." "You'd have been a fool!" Ellen felt her skin tighten and her face flush. "And you, Ellen. What have you been doing?" someone asked. Ellen hesitated, conscious of the three pairs of eyes fixed upon her. Well, what had she been doing? What had she to relate? How to tell in so many words of the sacredness of those first months of marriage to Paul; of that miraculous feeling of being not one soul, but two, eternally bound together. Could mere words describe that ecstasy when first she had known she was to be a mother; the long months of waiting while her body grew heavy with its precious burden, and that moment when she looked upon her baby daughter, and felt in some small measure as He must have felt when He rested on the seventh day and looked down upon the world. Would they be interested in the battle she had had nursing Bud back to health after a siege of scarlet fever —Bud so husky and strong now, with his freckled face and his pride in "the" gang'—or the fact that Alice, at the age of ten, could play on the piano, by ear, any piece she might hear? She might tell them
that little Betty was at the head of her class in school, and that buttermilk, of all things, had been the only milk little Denny's system could digest from the age of two months on. But would these drab facts interest them? They had all seemed vitally important to Ellen at the time, but now they seemed uninteresting, colorless. She heard her voice, weak and faint, as if from the bottom of a deep, dark well. "Me? Why nothing, I guess. Just raising a family. I have four children, you know." There was an embarrassed pause, and then Drucilla laughed. She always had been able to laugh herself out of an embarrassing situation. Ellen left soon after, and there were friendly goodby's and fervent promises to "meet again." But Ellen knew this could never be. They belonged to a different world. As she walked away she could almost hear their comments and the undercurrent of pity in their voices. "Such a shame," they would say, "she used to be such a brilliant person. An A student in English. Such an amazing sense of humor. Remember her screamingly funny compositions?" And then they would forget her, return to their smart, sparkling talk.
ELLEN tried to recapture her. Mood of an hour before; she told herself, "Snap out of it, my dear. You've new clothes to buy yet, and a party to look forward to." But she was conscious of a dull feeling of resentment as she traveled from shop to shop hunting a dress. She found herself comparing each gown with the taffeta one and thinking "* * * this one is shoddy, cheap * * " or " * * the shade is all wrong, it makes my skin look muddy * * " and " * * $29.50 isn't a scandalous price to pay for a dress.
I'll bet Judy paid that much for her hat * * * and finally, "* * * I haven't had a decent dress since I was married * * *" In the end, spurred into action by the lateness of the hour, she chose a black rough crepe dress, long, with short puff sleeves, marked down to $9.79 from the winter season. She could remove the tawdry gold bow, wear her strand of pearls and her pearl earrings, "and look as I always do, drab, practical, a season behind,' she thought. The tall clock on the corner of Main and Broadway told her it was five o'clock. She quickened her steps. Still shoes and stockings to buy. No time, now, to get a wave. She used to wave her own hair when she was going to school. Brush it until it gleamed, then steam it with hot towels and push the wave into place. But that took time. Time! When had she a minute she could call her own, an undisturbed night of sleep? No wonder fine lines were already making their appearance in her fair skin, She passed a shoe store and feasted her eyes on a pair of fragile, golden sandals. Just what she wanted! Golden sandals and a shimmering taffeta dress. She saw the price tag $10.50 and walked away. "Marjory, or Judy could have bought them without even a glance at the price tag," she thought as she walked one flight up and bought a pair of black kid pumps with a silver metal bow. With her purchases under her arm she made her way towards the hosiery counter in Bengels Co. And then she saw them, on the end of the counter near the elevator. Lace stockings. Fragile as a spider's web. As soft in color as the first warm breath of spring. "They are just new," the salesgirl remarked at her
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
elbow. "Beautiful, aren't they?" Ellen nodded and touched them gently with a gloved hand. The price tag said, "$2.50." They would go well with a peach-colored taffeta dress and gold sandals, wouldn't they?" she asked, torturing herself. "Oh, yes. Beautifully," the clerk assured her. Suddenly, standing there at the hosiery counter with her packages under her arm, her hat crooked, and her nose shiny, Ellen wanted those stockings more than anything else in the whole world. And she had just 65 cents in her purse. "I just wanted something for everyday," she lied bitterly and bought a pair of semi-chiffon hose for 59 cents. She didn't look at the lace stockings again. Didn't have to. She would never forget them.
THEY became, as she walked home, the symbol of everything lovely she had wanted in the last eleven years and couldn't have. Lovely things she had wanted marched through her mind in tantalizing procession. A brown coat with a beaver collar; a pink knitted suit with a beret to match; a white felt picture hat with a blue band; a star sapphire ring like Aunt Jasmine's. Aunt Jasmine! Or Judy, or Drucilla, or Marjory. Catch them denying themselves anything. She, Ellen, was as intelligent as any of them. "I could have been a writer, a newspaper woman." But what had happened? She had fallen in love with Paul. Let her heart rule her head. Oh, of course, some day she would have all the lovely things she wanted. Maybe. Some day! She wanted them now, while she was young. "You should have chosen a career, Ellen McCarthy Dale," she told herself.
LACE STOCKINGS
BUD met her at the door. "Won the ball game, Mom." She saw his tousled hair, his dirty shirt, and the rip in his overalls. "Bud, you've torn your overalls again. You must think we're made of money," she almost screamed. Bud said, "Yes'm," and disappeared into the bedroom, a hurt look on his freckled face. Alice ran in from the kitchen. "Oh, mother," she reached for Ellen's packages, "let me see!" Ellen frowned down into her eager, upturned face. "Leave things alone!" Little Betty, always shy, remained in the background, her round, serious eyes on her mother's face. The phone rang. "It's Mr. Dale," Nora called. Ellen unfastened Denny's clinging hands from her skirt. "Get a dress, honey?" asked. "Oh my, yes,' she answered. "I bought a silver lame evening dress, solid gold sandals, an ermine jacket and—and lace stockings, thin as a spider's web!" She was very near to tears. There was a moment's silence, then Paul's voice came over the wire, worried, husky. '"What's the matter, honey? Didn't you have enough money?" Ellen made no reply. She couldn't Paul speak. "Maybe I can borrow ten from Mike." "No. Don't bother.' Borrow ten and be six months paying it back. "TI have to get busy." She hung up. "Shame, shame," she scolded herself. "Paul hasn't had a new suit for three years." But she didn't care. She didn't care! UST at that moment a low, creamcolored roadster drew up in front of the house and stopped. Aunt Jasmine got out of the car and came walking up the path. Aunt Jas- 279 mine in a clever, apple-green outfit, her gray hair perfectly waved. "Fashion note, for spring,' Ellen thought. "Select a bright, light weight wool dress for wear under your winter coat." She bundled her packages together, threw them in the hall closet and shut the door. "Hello, darling,' Aunt Jasmine greeted. "You look tired. Anything wrong?" Ellen made no reply, but fastened her eyes on a flat package in Aunt Jasmine's hand. Denny toddled in from the kitchen, his arms held up. '"Damin, Damin," he lisped. Jasmine threw the package carelessly, wearily on the table and reached eagerly, hungrily for Denny. "Just something I bought me as I came through town. See if you like them." She walked over to the window with Denny in her arms. Ellen unwrapped the package, and a tiny moan escaped her lips. Lace stockings! Not one pair, but three! The very stockings she had wanted. It wasn't fair! Bitterness and weariness culminated into tears, and she wept silently, one hand on the lace stockings, the other hand to her lips. It wasn't fair. Aunt Jasmine had everything! Then she looked up, saw Aunt Jasmine standing by the window, Denny in her arms, his dimpled hand on her lips, the light making a halo of his bright curls. But it was the look on Jasmine's face that checked Ellen's tears, and sent the bitterness from her heart with one clean stroke. For in that unguarded moment she saw disillusionment, futility and poignant loneliness in the other woman's face. "Oh, I've never known that," she thought, indescribable loneliness. I never will. I have my children. True, they will grow up, marry and move away. But they will return 280 for warm, cozy visits. They and their children and their children's children. Always she would have her fingertips on life's pulse. The thought came to Ellen that Aunt Jasmine was the Marjories, the Judys, the Drucillas, ten, fifteen years from now. Successful, rich, bored and lonely. The grass always looked greener on the other side of the fence. Until this moment she had seen only the attractive part of the older woman's life. The ease and comfort, the money. She had not realized that money could purchase only material things that faded and tarnished and lost their thrill the moment after purchase. Ellen's life was full, busy, soulsatisfying. Career! Why, she had chosen a career! The most important one in the world. Careers of Music, of Art, of Literature, they were all very important. They made for a rich and more abundant life, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE but first there must be people born to enjoy them. The Career of Motherhood! "It is such an age-old occupation that people take it for granted," Ellen thought, "like the miracle of the sun rising every morning, or the wonder of green sprouts pushing their way through the damp earth in the spring. We mothers are partly to blame. We take it for granted ourselves. We are apologetic about our calling. "Just raising a family," I said this afternoon, and I lowered my eyes. I should have held my head high." She would start a new vogue among mothers. Pride in their task. It was an inspiring thought. It took her firmly by the hand and lead her to the top of a lofty mountain, She carefully folded the lace stockings in the box, put the lid on and tied the string in a tight, hard knot. She was humming a happy little tune.