The British Coronation By Amy Brown Lyman
FROM the earliest time kings and queens have worn crowns as a sign and symbol of their authority. In some countries, particularly England, the crowning of the king has been regarded as a natural and necessary ceremony to be performed for each new sovereign. The English regalia and crown jewels today include a number of very interesting crowns, both old and new. The most important of these is St. Edward's crown, the one with which the king is actually crowned and which is used on no other occasion. It is known as the Crown of the Realm—the Crown of England. It was made in 1662 at the time of the Restoration and is the successor to and replica of the ancient crown of England which with the other regalia was destroyed by the commonwealth government. After the Coronation ceremony is over this crown which is very heavy, weighing nearly seven pounds, is replaced by the light but more magnificent Imperial State Crown which is worn by the king on the return procession and at the opening of Parliament. The crowning of the English king, or the Coronation, follows the accession to the throne which has previously been officially proclaimed and which is in itself already of binding force. It is the formal public recognition and ratification of the accession, and has become a ceremonial token of wider significance. Immediately upon the death of an English monarch his heir becomes his already constituted successor. For the crowning ceremony however, there is no fixed time nor date. It usually occurs after the period of mourning is over. The Coronation of King George V took place thirteen months after his accession to the throne. The date for the present Coronation was set for sixteen months after the accession of Edward VIII, and it was not changed after the Abdication of the latter and the accession of King George VI. Six months after the accession of Edward VIII the date of May 12, 1937, was announced for the Coronation and preliminary plans began to take form at once in court and government circles, and in business and social realms. These plans were interrupted at the time of Edward VIII's Abdication on December 11th, but were resumed at once after George VI's accession on December 12th.
WHILE the British Coronation is a magnificent, brilliant and elaborate ceremony, it is also a sacred religious ceremony. It is a solemn and aweful compact between an individual and a people, the individual promising to discharge his function worthily and faithfully, and the people on their side, pledging their allegiance to him in the accomplishment of their joint work. The famous Abbey of Westminster which was founded by Edward the Confessor (1042-1066) is the setting for this great and important event. William the Conqueror was the first king to be crowned in the Abbey and since his time all coronations have taken place within its time hallowed walls. The complete coronation includes
WESTMINSTER ABBEY, ST. MARGARET'S AND BIG BEN RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the procession to and from the Abbey and the ceremony within the Abbey. Briefly the coronation ceremony proper consists of the Recognition, or presentation of the king; the taking of the oath; the anointing of the king on the palms of the hands, the breast and the head, with hallowed oil; the investure of the Royal Robe with the orb, sceptre and ring (the wedding ring of England); and the placing of the Crown upon his head by the Archbishop of Canterbury, as the people shout "GOD SAVE THE KING". The peers then put on their coronets and the bishops their caps, the trumpets sound and by a signal given the great guns of the Tower commence to fire. Then, enthroned in the ancient coronation chair, the king receives the homage of leading representatives of the various ranks, in succession. The crowning of the Queen next takes place. She proceeds to the altar attended by her train bearers. She is anointed on the head, receives the consort's ring and the crown is placed upon her head by the Archbishop of Canterbury. As her crown is placed the princesses and peeresses put on their coronets and there is a glittering of jewels such as one never sees in any other ceremony. The Queen is now invested with her robes and regalia, and when their Majesties have partaken of the sacrament the ceremony is over. The King then exchanges the Crown of St. Edward for the Imperial Crown, and the Royal Robe of State for his robe of purple velvet. There then remains the great procession from the Abbey to the Palace, Included in the ceremony are anthems, prayers, scripture reading and a sermon by the Archbishop of Canterbury. It is a tense moment when the king takes the oath. Kneeling be-