Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
The apple trees are blooming, There's laughter 'long the way, Oh the gladness of May!
MRS. J. BORDEN HARRIMAN, New York and Washington socialite, will be the second woman envoy to a foreign country if she accepts the appointment of Minister to Norway.
LENA MADESEN PHILLIPS expresses disappointment that women are not participating more in statecraft. It is strange, that after the long struggle for suffrage, more women have not come in to high positions. Is it that men are too tenacious of their prerogatives or that after all women are too indifferent? One cabinet member, one minister in the foreign service, one federal judge, a director of the mint, one United States senator, two women governors; that is about all the major positions women have acquired during the seventeen years of suffrage.
MISS ELEANOR RATHBONE and the duchess of Athol, members of the British parliament, are urging a firmer stand by their government against the Italian attitude in Europe and Africa.
A PREMIUM on motherhood has been established by Boris, king of Bulgaria. He has granted suffrage to all married women over twenty-one who have borne children in lawful wedlock.
MRS. EVA MAESER CRANDALL of Utah, is the author of a poetic drama, "John Hafen," depicting the life episodes of this fine artist. The drama was presented at the Springville National Art Show.
QUEEN ELIZABETH has chosen her gown for the Coronation —ivory silk embroidered with gold worked into forms of Tudor roses, thistles, shamrocks, daffodils and lotus blooms, standing for England, Scotland, Ireland, Wales and India, With her robe of royal purple and ermine, she will be a picture of elegance long to be remembered. The little princesses Elizabeth and Margaret will be permitted to wear the purple robe without the ermine.
MRS. LILLIE T. FREEZE, one of Utah's choicest and gifted mothers, died last March. Known as a writer, a missionary among children, a singer of beautiful songs, her spiritual influence brought solace to her legion of friends.
BERTITA HARDING in her latest book, "Golden Fleece," reviews the lives of Franz Joseph and Elizabeth of Austria. This young biographer of the Hapsburgs first won favor with the public through her book, "Phantom Crown," the thrilling story of the ill-fated Maximilian and Carlotta and their Mexican adventure.
CAROLYN WELLS' new novel, "The Mystery of the Tarn," is said by the critics to be as well mixed up a concoction as any Miss Wells has brewed.
GRACE CANDLAND JACOBSEN of Mount Pleasant, Utah, is represented by a poem and brief biography in "American Voices," a new anthology.
A Shrine to Will Rogers
A LITTLE chapel is to be a part of the Will Rogers Shrine of the Sun which is nearing completion on a promontory of famous Cheyenne mountain above Broadmoor hotel, just south of Colorado Springs, Colorado. The Will Rogers chapel and shrine will be everlasting as the mountains and as steadfast as the sun. This beautiful silver shaft stands out—like the man it honors. Its base is imbedded in the backbone of the nation, on the front range of the Rocky Mountains. Its spire kisses the Colorado sky. It is away from the busy world; it affords peace and quiet; it is almost part of God's great mountains; it commands meditation; it is dignified and picturesque, seemingly a link between the early imprints of the famous humorist, and his celestial home. The granite tower, resembling a feudal castle, was conceived and entirely financed by Spencer Penrose, Colorado Springs pioneer and friend of Mr. Rogers. It was designed by Charles E. Thomas and built by Milton J. Strong. The spire is a genuine castle in the air, reached by the "ladder-to-the-sky" Broadmoor-Cheyenne highway which zig-zags up the face of Cheyenne mountain. It contains only materials that will endure. There are no nails and no wood in the construction. More than 5,000 cubic yards of light pink granite was taken from a large single boulder near the memorial, to make the tower walls. By night the shrine will be flood-
lighted as a sparkling gem studded against the velvet of night. From the pinnacle will burn a sodium light with provision for it to shine perpetually. There are four rooms in tier inside the shrine, connected by a spiral stairs leading to an observation alcove on the top. At the base of the 100-foot shaft will be the Will Rogers chapel, which will be open to all mankind. Another of the rooms will be the Will Rogers Memorial room. Mr. Davidson, American sculptor who was a close friend of Mr. Rogers, is now completing an oversize bust of Mr. Rogers, in his Paris studio for the memorial room. Randall Davy, noted Santa Fe artist, is painting the history of the West on the interior walls. The frescoes are arranged so that visitors may follow the, history chronologically by ascending the stairs. Davey will probably do the religious paintings in the chapel before the memorial is dedicated next summer. Thousands have already visited the shrine, which has been under construction for 28 months. Around the shrine is a five-acre sanctuary filled with native Colorado flowers and evergreens. Mr. Rogers has stood on the knoll where the memorial has been built
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
at the 9,000-foot elevation. Just two miles from the shrine is the base of Pike's Peak, the snow-capped mountain sighted in 1806 by Lieutenant Zebulon M. Pike as he camped with his troops at Port Pueblo, 42 miles to the southeast. Pike and a handful of followers tried to scale the high peak, but they unsuspectingly ascended Cheyenne mountain, discovering their error when they rested on the promontory now marked by the Rogers shrine. Pike told his exhausted troopers that the peak which took his name could never be scaled by man. Its rugged crown is raised above timberline to 14,109 feet. Pike was wrong, because Spencer Penrose, the same man who built the Will Rogers Shrine of the Sun, built the famous cog railroad and the world's automobile highway to the summit of Pike's Peak. The shrine was named "Will Rogers Shrine of the Sun" because it often is shut off from the world when tufts of white clouds float between it and the plains half a mile below. The sharp angles catch the sun's rays, especially in the late afternoon as the sun drops behind the lofty peak, which break the sunlight into spears of crimson which play upon the granite memorial and chapel.
Missionary Centennial
MRS. BERTHA A. KLEINMAN has written a pageant for the Great Britain Missionary Centennial. This will be presented in May following the Coronation in London and perhaps in Preston, England, where the Gospel was first introduced. Mrs. Kleinman has featured the Relief Society in this dramatization, even though it was not organized until five years after the ushering in of the Gospel in that land. We print herewith some excerpts from Mrs. Kleinman's very fine work. President Grant has decided to go to this celebration, and Mrs. Vida Fox Clawson expects to take a large party from the mountain States to celebrate this wonderful event.
THE FIRST FOREIGN MISSION GREAT BRITAIN 1837
To north, to south, to eastward and to west, On crested wave, to earth's remotest isle, Brave envoys bend their mission quest to launch The Message of Salvation to the world. At Truth's exalted lamp they light their flame, The old, the young in sainted retinue— Across the seas to Britain's fair domain And thence to lave a waiting continent. A ripened vineyard ready for the scythe, For Israel's choicest blood is sprinkled there, And in that whited harvest-tide to be Whole nations shall be garnered in a day. Resound ye hills, ye pinnacles and steeples, God of our fathers, List the symphony, Harken ye stars as Zion calls her peoples, To lift their anthemed praises unto Thee! In theme superb the Epic of Salvation Entones its matchless text to all the world, To those who live—to earth's remote creation, To those who die the message is unfurled. Centennial Dawn, O blessed dispensation O Glorious Faith that lights the hearts of men, Encrowned upon the Rock of Revelation The Gospel fullness is restored again!
(As great tableau of the nations is shown, with pageantry moving aside as President Grant mounts among the nations and proclaims his matchless testimony.)
Tableau: The organization of the Relief Society, March 17, 1842. Adaptation of "Daughters of Zion," by ladies chorus.)
In ministry of holy charity, To feed the widowed and the fatherless, To carry solace to the desolate, To ease the pangs of suffering and death— Called he the women of the fold to serve In delegated ranks of sisterhood. Emancipated they to mission fields None but a prophet could inaugurate; Lo! Zion's daughters, chosen and elect, Enfranchised first and foremost of the earth.
MISSION OF THE WOMEN OF THE CHURCH (With anthem —Bertha A. Kleinman.
Relief Society Conference April 2 and 3, 1937
By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
THE Annual Conference of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was held in Salt Lake City, Friday and Saturday, April 2 and 3, 1937. President Louise Y. Robison was in charge. In addition to the Officers' Meeting and two General Sessions, there were five Departments held—the Secretaries', Magazine, Social Welfare, Work and Business, Choristers' and Organists'. The special features were the Reception for Mission and Stake Presidents and Officers, the Mission and Stake Presidents' Breakfast, and an Illustrated Lecture on Abraham Lincoln. The attendance at all meetings was very gratifying and enthusiastic, including representatives from 117 Stakes and 9 Missions. The following was the response to the general roll call: Mission Presidents, 8; Mission Officers, 2; Stake Presidents, 95; Counselors, 126; Secretaries, 81; Board Members, 422; making a total attendance of 734. The music for all sessions was especially good. The Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the capable leadership of Charlotte O. Sackett, were assisted by Professor Frank W. Asper at the organ, Alta B. Cassity at the piano, and William M. Hardiman with the violin. The soloists were, Margaret Summerhays, Margaret S. Hewlett. There were also the fine contributions of organ music by Adeline R. Ensign, and duets by Brother and Sister Stewart McMaster, and Richard Keddington and Dorothy Kimball. The Reception for General, Mission and Stake Officers, held in the Hotel Utah, was a thoroughly delightful event, and offered an opportunity for Relief Society members from all parts to meet, make new acquaintances and renew old ones. A special feature was the illustrated lecture on Abraham Lincoln by Dr. George W. Middleton. This was a most valuable climax to the study in Literature of the life of a great National hero,
THE Presidents' Breakfast, held at the historic Lion House, was one of the very pleasant features of the Conference. The Presidency and General Board gratefully acknowledge the beautiful flowers sent by the North Sevier Stake. The ushers for the different meetings were kindly furnished by the following Stakes: Ensign, 'Highland, Liberty, Pioneer, Salt Lake and Wells.
OFFICERS' MEETING OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Louise Y. Robison
THE General Board is offering a new service to you at this Conference. To relieve you from taking notes, we have prepared, and will send to your home address a synopsis of the program of each of the Department Meetings. Division of Responsibility: There seems to be a misunderstanding about the responsibility of Counselors in some of the Stakes and Wards. Only a short time ago we met two fine, intelligent Counselors who were discouraged because they knew nothing of the Stake President's plans for Relief Society work. In another Stake the division was made too well. The President and each of the Counselors had special work, but they never held meetings to discuss their plans which would enable them to coordinate the work. Years ago we asked to have a division of responsibility. The Presidents—Stake and Ward—are to have supervision of the Teachers and all Welfare work. They may have an Aid or Welfare Worker, but the President should be consulted and help make plans for persons or families in need of assistance. Each Counselor—Stake and Ward—should be given a definite department of the work to supervise and develop. The Counselor best fitted for the educational work, either first or second counselor, should be given this department,. While the other Counselor would have charge of the sewing and handwork department. THE Presidency should meet together frequently, where plans should be freely discussed and suggestions made. Relief Society Funds: Six months ago, we tried to emphasize the ruling that all money collected by Relief Society Visiting Teachers must be turned into the Charity Account, and used only for charity. We are sorry if this has worked a hardship on any Society, but we feel this to be the proper procedure, and in all kindness ask you to live strictly to this ruling. Reports have reached us that some of the Stakes use Annual Dues for purposes other than strengthening Relief Society in the Stake. Annual Dues must not be used to make donations for any oth-
er purpose, no matter how worthy the cause. It is not to be used in building or furnishing meeting houses, for contributions to Community Chests, War Veterans, nor for parties or gifts where only Stake Board members are benefited. It can legitimately be used in defraying expenses of Board Members in their official visits to Wards, in attending Relief Society General Conference, in entertaining Ward Officers and Ward Workers when such gatherings are necessary for giving instructions and stimulating interest in Relief Society work. Where there is a surplus it can be used in helping the weaker Wards carry their responsibility. It may interest you to know that not one cent of the Annual Dues, which you send to us, is spent in entertainment or gifts of any kind. It is used entirely for traveling expenses of General Board Members, in visiting Stakes and Missions, and for the literature and correspondence to the Stakes and Missions. If you have revenue from Stake parties, pageants or bazaars, that money may be used for any purpose you choose, but Annual Dues are for one purpose only— building up Relief Society. Transients: A heavy burden is placed on our people in California by residents of Utah, Idaho, Wyoming and other States, who, without sufficient money, go to California expecting to find employment. California Stakes have their own to care for, and it is unjust to add to the load they are already carrying. California is a beautiful place in which to live when we have the means to pay for the sunshine, but I imagine that even the sunshine did not bring great joy to a young couple who had not eaten for two or three days, and who made their wants known on the day their rent was due. Counties, outside the one in
which we have legal residence, are not responsible for our needs. Will you sisters impress upon the people of your communities to be quite sure there is employment in other places before leaving the County in which they reside.
MANY people from our community have moved to California and have established homes. Some of them have not affiliated with the Church, and it is difficult for the Stake and Ward Officers to locate them. If you know of any such person will you send word to the Stake President or the Bishop of the ward, who will be happy to contact the individual. A very splendid service is offered by Brother Homer Durham, of Los Angeles, who invites all Church members to visit the Deseret Club and become acquainted with local groups. Lessons: As you will be told in your Relief Society Magazine section this afternoon, the lessons for the next year will begin in the July number. This is to allow you sisters who want to begin your work in September to do so. It is agreeable with the General Board to have you begin in September and continue through until May, rather than to begin in October and close in June. We do ask, however, that the whole Stake has a uniform time of beginning and closing. Reports Received: We want to compliment you splendid women on the reports you have sent in. Just a short time ago the Work and Business Department wanted a questionnaire to go to all the Stakes to find out what your plans were for the Work and Business Meetings. I said to the Committee, "We will send it out, but it is not possible for them to get the report in time." It is amazing how many have come in. When we sent out the material
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
on Child Character Education the response was most gratifying. Dr. Cushing came to the office to express her appreciation for your fine work. At the Brigham Young University Leadership Week, Mrs. Hayes, a National Officer of Parent Teachers, said they never had such a response, they did not believe it was possible. Miss Scorup came from the Capitol to thank the Relief Society. We are thanking you, because it was you who did the work. It was very fine. Financial Report Given At Ward Conferences: In some of the Ward Conferences it is customary to report the financial condition of Relief Society. We feel that this is not the best thing to do. We do not want to hide any report. The Bishop and the Ward Clerk have access to our reports, but there are some people who feel if we have forty or fifty dollars in the treasury, we should give more generously in the Ward. Others may feel there is no need to make contributions. We think it is better not to report the amount on hand. The number of persons assisted may be reported, but of course using no names. Visiting Teachers: Reports indicate that the Visiting Teachers are doing better work. This is because of the help that is given in the Wards and Stakes. We would like to call your attention, however, to a report that in some of the Stakes the Visiting Teachers make their visits on Sunday. We much rather this would not be done. Sunday is a home day, and while more people may be in on that day, it breaks into the Sabbath. That is a family day, and it would be better not to have Visiting Teachers call on Sunday unless there is something very unusual, such as a message from the Bishop or Relief Society President. Employment Bureau: We have
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
at Headquarters of Relief Society a very fine Employment Bureau. Many girls, coming in from the country for employment, possibly because of limited funds, will stay at dangerous rooming houses overnight, and try to find employment the next day. If these girls would write to Sister Amy W. Evans, at General Board of Relief Society Headquarters, and tell her what their qualifications are, and what they would like to do, then let Sister Evans write to them and tell them when they can come in, it would save a great deal of expense, and more important than the expense, it would save many heartaches. These girls are usually fine, clean girls, but they are away from home and loved ones, and they sometimes do things for a little fling that they would not think of doing in their own homes. It is very seldom a girl can go out for a fling without heartaches after. If* these girls would get in touch with Sister Evans we could find them lodging in a good place while arrangement is being made for work. May Day Health Program: We have been called as a group to work with the May Day Health Program for Children. The programs are to be under the direction of the Parent Teachers. Most of our Relief Society women belong to Parent Teachers' organizations, but we are asking that all Relief Societies cooperate in this excellent movement. You will not be asked to supply funds, but anything you can do to encourage and cooperate in this splendid work will be appreciated. Relief Society Assistance In Church Security: For years the Relief Society has sewn, made quilts, clothing, and layettes for those who have needed these articles and did not know how to sew. We are going to change this method and assist the
sisters in doing the work themselves. In one of our Wards in Salt Lake, at the Work and Business Meeting, all of our fine Relief Society women were sewing on a layette, and the young mother—a young, able-bodied, strong, intelligent woman sat and held her hands, and her mother sat there and held her hands, and the Relief Society sewed. Going back in the history, we find the Relief Society sewed for the mother when her children were little, and if it goes on this way the Relief Society will be sewing for the grandchildren and _ great-grandchildren. We do not want to be hard. If there are mothers who are ill, or who go out to work, and have a hard time keeping up their work, of course we shall be happy to help them. There is not anything that will bring a person out of despair and some of the women have all the excuse in the world for being in despair, as quickly and as thoroughly as to create some beautiful, useful article. If the mothers will learn to make dresses for their children it will bring delight and happiness to them, and they will have the desire to do more.
WE are asking in each Ward of the Church, if you have a drive for used clothes, take out a few pieces that you know would be suitable for making over for these individual families. There will be much more of an incentive for the women to take care of clothes if they make them themselves, rather than having handed to them anything that happens to be on hand. This is not in conflict at all with the Church Security. The Church Security have their big splendid program, in which we are all united. For the past year we all gave every bit of help we could, and many of the women worked beyond their strength. As a result many of our
Ward Presidents are resigning, saying they cannot carry the load as they did last year. When anything new is begun, it takes effort, and we were happy to give the service. We want to continue doing anything the Church Security want us to do, but we hope it will not be necessary to sew day after day and send that sewing into storehouses, unless there is some special need. Our call now is to see that every woman who is able and strong enough to knit, to sew, or to use her hands in any useful way, be taught how to do something. This will give more encouragement to them than all the work others could do for them. We have said for years we want to administer to the strength, and not the weakness, of our people, and it is administering to their weakness to do anything for them that they can do for themselves. That is "Mormon" doctrine, and has been ever since the Church was organized. In canning fruit, instead of us going to the meeting house, or
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
our Relief Society room, and putting up fruit for our sisters' use, it would be better to have someone teach women to put up the fruit for their own needs. See, too, that those who need the fruit are supplied with bottles and sugar at the time the fruit is ready. The pride of having a dozen jars of peaches that she has put up herself will be a great stimulant to any woman. We want to lift our women up. They have had a hard time, and it is our pleasure to help them get the joy that comes through meeting their own problems. I pray that our Father in Heaven will bless you that you can interpret the needs of the people; that you can see where you can help in such a way that will add to the strength of those whom you serve. When the census is taken we want, to have our people make a better report than the people in the world, because we have had inspired leaders, who, for years, have been helping us.
ANNUAL REPORT Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
IT GIVES me great pleasure to give to you a very brief report of the Relief Society. This statement, as it is now presented, is a complete statement of the totals, as we have included the Stake Boards this year in our Statement of Receipts. This may seem, on the face of it, to change the report slightly, but you sisters will understand it when the details are given in the public statement. This represents the Missions, Stakes and Wards of the Relief Society: Total Balance on Hand January 1, 1936, $188,256.- 30; Total Receipts during 1936, $296,295.63; Total Balance on Hand and Receipts, $484,551.93; Paid for Charitable Purposes, $66,189.48; Total Disbursements, $280,916.50; Total Balance, December 31, 1936, $203,635.43; Total Assets, $1,003,- 820.70; Ward Conferences Held, 1,427; Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers, 986,687; Number of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound, 215,260. Membership in 1935, 72,- 093; in 1936, 73,062; an increase of 969. The Membership includes: Executive and Special Officers, 15,- 236; Visiting Teachers, 24,602; Other Members, 32,255. Average attendance in 1935, 32,335; 1936, 31,784; a decrease of 551. Paid for Charitable Purposes in 1935, $66,- 863.86; in 1936, $66,189.48, a decrease of $674.38.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE
Counselor Kate M. Barker
FOR some time the General Board has felt the need for some outlet for the handwork of our Relief Society women. They have looked forward to the time which seemed opportune for beginning this project. In our Church we have so many expert needlewomen. We felt that if the  , where we might contact the tourists and sell this handwork, it might be a very great help to our people. It would give the mothers in the home an opportunity in their spare time for creating something beautiful, and also help to increase the family income. As Sister Robison has said, our Presiding Bishopric and General Authorities have been very much interested and very kind. They have given us the large room upstairs in the Bureau of Information. We are delighted with this because it is on the Temple Block, where every tourist who comes to Salt Lake goes. We hope to have things in readiness for this season's tourist trade. We have drawn up the following rules in regard to this. WOMAN'S EXCHANGE 1. Name—The organization shall be known as: MORMON HANDICRAFT Sponsored by L. D. S. Woman's Relief Society 2. A non-profit organization for the outlet of Handwork. 3. Membership — there may two types of membership: a. Stake Board or Ward Membership, when the proceeds go to the Stake Board or Ward organization. The price of membership is $1.00 per year. B. Individual Membership. The price of membership is 50c per year. 4, Twenty-five percent of the price of the article will be taken for. Overhead. This percent to be taken when the article is sold. 5. The Stake Work and Business Supervisor, with the Ward Work and Business Supervisors will constitute the Stake Committee to contact the women and pass upon the work to be sent in to assure the work to be of the highest standard of excellence. 6. Application for Membership must be made through the local Committee. This year this committee will seek out and invite expert needle women to participate. 7. When an article is sent in, the person contributing will give the cost of material used and what she considers a fair price for the article. 8. A Committee of the General Board, or ones chosen by the Board, will be the final judges of the articles to be featured. This Committee will also assume the responsibility of equalizing prices. 9. A Paid worker will have charge of the shop. 10. The General Board does not guarantee to sell articles submitted. The obligation they assume is proper care of the articles after they are received, insurance against fire and theft, exhibiting, trying to sell, and if not sold within a reasonable time to return the article to the owner. 11. We advise the insuring of all articles by the sender when mailing.  THE SPIRITUAL SIDE OF MUSIC Janet M. Thompson THERE is so much of beauty and inspiration in music let us provide a richer field for it to live in—a field where it can more fully develop the spiritual life—where it can more harmoniously speak to us—where it can more consistently help us. The importance of music in its application to the Relief Society program is deserving of thoughtful consideration. Music in any service should be the best circumstances will permit. In the process of elevating this art to higher levels certain standards should be observed. Various elements enter into the treatment of music which either build or unbuild the spirit of it. Definite and essential elements involved in our building program are: 1. The quality and character of music. 2. The ability and responsibility of the performer. 3. The attitude and cooperation of the congregation. The quality and character of music is a most vital element. There may be the finest of quality in what we choose to use but is it appropriate in character? Relief Society standards prescribe that music shall be appropriate for all occasions—that it shall be good music. Let us make our music two-fold in purpose—aim to touch the hearts and lives of our people—maintain the very highest ideals of music. Let us dignify it—make it worthy and effective, remembering always that nothing is perfect enough for the worship of God. The ability and responsibility of the performer involves another element. The charm of one who performs lies in her ability to select proper music—to render it in such a way that it can be interpreted and felt by the audience. Experience has proved that when either a voluntary or a song is selected at the moment it is to be used neither the composition nor the playing or singing of it is worthy of its true purpose. Our women have demonstrated that their ability to stimulate others to greater appreciation of music does not lie in some rare accomplishment, but rather in humble, sincere and earnest endeavor. It is genuine acknowledgement of responsibility and vision of possibilities that prepares one for intelligent performance of her duty. The attitude and cooperation of the congregation is another important element. Our songs, which for the most part are expressions of prayer, praise and thanksgiving, have been penned by men and women of superior faith and courage. Many of them have been written after great thought and sacrifice has been made. How often are these lovely songs just mechanically and _ passively sung? Do we respond to the spirit of the song when no emotion is stirred? Do we have full understanding of its meaning and significance—do we sing thinkingly—do we convey the message intended? If hymns speak to us of faith, let us express that faith in song. If they utter words of doctrine let us teach that doctrine through song. If they offer words of comfort and solace let us impart that message in song. Let us strive to improve the quality, the character and effectiveness of music. There is a great field for musical service—let us work for spiritual excellence in that field.  LIBRARIES Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary F making many books there is no end," we read in Ecclesiastes. The collection of books, the author of which is the Human Race, is so vast that we do not know just how or when it started. We know we shall never see the end of it. It is one of the eternal verities of life, linking together the past, the present, and the future. All we know of the greatness of the past is revealed mainly through the libraries. One of the most important events in the history of the world was the invention of printing by means of movable type. The honor for this immense service to humanity goes to Johann Gutenberg of Mainz, Germany, who was born about 1400. For many centuries the art of reading and writing was a patrician one, enjoyed only by the Select few. To prepare books was an extremely expensive and laborious process. So printing was the greatest tool ever forged to aid the march of human progress toward the goal of complete social living. This invention was sanctified by use for the spiritual as well as the material welfare of mankind. Aristotle says, "All men by nature are actuated with the desire for knowledge." This desire is undoubtedly the incentive which has led the great nations of the world to collect extensive libraries, of which they should be extremely proud, provided their people use them. While the idea of libraries is as old as civilization, the free, public library is strictly modern. The idea followed public schools. Access to schools was free. Why not access to books? In half a century the free public library has emerged from nothingness, into an entirely accepted indispensable national institution. The Relief Society has always kept in step with the march of progress. Its members have been lovers of books. The idea of libraries in Wards and Stakes is not of recent origin. The slogan adopted some time ago has borne rich fruit. "The best reading for the largest number at the least cost," has resulted not merely in the collection of books to be placed somewhere and kept, but made a part of Relief Society activity, used, studied, digested. Of all the privileges we enjoy in this century of opportunity, there is none for which we ought to be more grateful than for the easy access to books. The usual method of our Heavenly Father in passing knowledge along is to endow His children with intelligence to search for it. One of our problems today in the multiplicity of books available, is, what books to read and how to read them. Here Relief Society can render a real service in literary guidance. Sociologists tell us that libraries are our cultural reservoirs. It is possible for us to have one such cultural reservoir in every Stake and Ward setup. It is not the great number of volumes nor the fine bindings, but the kind of books and the use to which they are put, that really counts. Much depends upon the librarian. She must have real enthusiasm for her calling. The good teacher does not teach subjects; she teaches her pupils. So the good librarian is not the mere custodian of the books. She is interested in women, and the guidance she can offer them, in awakening their minds, and stimulating their interest. The National Library As- 310 sociation does not hesitate to give the major portion of credit for the phenomenal success of its work, to efficient librarians. We can all do our bit in building libraries, by bringing to the center the books and periodicals that have been useful to us and encouraging our Sisters to raise the whole level of existence by coming to know life, through the minds of the great souls RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of earth. To find something in the spirit of the times with which one can be in harmony, is to be happy. Carlyle has wisely said that a collection of books is a real University. As we progress in our courses of study, we can create in all our organizations "a real University," a guide to youth, an entertainment for age, a source of real power to us all. DEPARTMENT MEETINGS Magazine DEPARTMENT Mary C. Kimball, Chairman WE deeply appreciate the earnest, efficient work of our Magazine Agents and the loyal support of our officers and teachers. We are grateful to our many subscribers for their support also. Last season was our banner year, when we had a subscription list of 41,500. We heartily thank those who have: made such a high list possible. This year we have a pamphlet of printed instructions. We hope our Agents and Officers will carefully read and reread them until the details are in their minds. This will result in fewer misunderstandings and fewer mistakes. We urge most strongly that records of all transactions relating to the Magazine be kept in each Ward and that the Stake Magazine Agent shall know the condition of each Ward in her Stake. Each Agent should be careful and accurate in sending in orders. The Magazine loses a great deal each year because many Agents fail to give the towns where the subscribers live and tell when the subscription should begin. Wise Agents will seek renewals before old subscriptions expire and will be on the alert during the entire year to get as many subscriptions as possible. The time of the Drive will not then be strenuous, but will be a closing up of the year's work, getting as many subscriptions as possible, and sending in the reports. Devices to increase the subscription list where necessary and where deemed advisable should be thought out early and worked to a successful issue. Each year Magazine gift subscriptions are increasing, and the last two or three years several have sent in money that subscriptions might go into the mission field. We hope all who reached over 75% last year will go still higher and that those who did not reach this mark will attain it this season. May 1937 far surpass 1936 in subscriptions received! SALESMANSHIP By John D. Spencer HE profession of Salesmanship embraces all of the other professions known in the field of endeavor. Outside of the field of salesmanship we are at a loss to know of a single occupation or activity or mode of RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE living that is not encompassed by the title of "Salesmanship". One selects the doctor, lawyer, or minister because of the qualities of salesmanship which he possesses. The steps in acquiring this are: first, the Objective. We resolve to be someone in particular, someone out of the commonplace, out of the ordinary, so that people see in us something just a little above the mediocre, and that is a very fine objective, Second, the Slogan—'Do now, no matter how difficult, that which is right." Be discontented, not with what you have, but with what you are. Third, the Challenge. This is rather an uncomfortable challenge to confront one with—"'Am I the kind of salesman that I would buy the Relief Society Magazine from, and if not, why not?" We have before the class what we call a mirror chart, which indicates the negative and positive qualities that go to make a personality, and the students are asked to face that chart every day. Fourth, Definition. Salesmanship is the combination of qualities, both natural and acquired, in man which enables him, acting for himself or. As an agent, to negotiate the transfer of something of value for a consideration, on the basis that all parties to the transaction must be benefited. I rather like the Golden Rule element that there is a limitation on all forms of selling. There are certain processes, and we urge upon you the preparation of all these processes on the theory that this whole selling process is no stronger than its weakest link—appearance, your approach, the arrangement of your sales talk, the knowledge of your article, and a fine warning, this is my own message, knowledge of your article. Know all about it and vindicate the 311 charge you make for it by the things you know about it. Loyalty to your article, and that in its broadest scope, is your challenge. You owe something to the institution promoting this fine thing. As you make your talk listen and ask yourself, "Would this talk convert me to the purchase of this Magazine, and if not, why not?" There is treatment of competition, tactfulness, presentation, and get away. We have established in our class an Eleventh Commandment, “Thou shalt not be grouchy." I beg of you to weigh that and analyze it, and you will find it vindicated 365 days of the year. Good morning is our greeting. Make every morning a good morning. You are not properly dressed until you put ona smile. Was everyone happy when you left home this morning, and if not, were you the cause of the unhappiness? Remember self-complacency kills growth. It is very much easier for a fine salesmani to sell shady goods, than for a shady salesman to sell fine goods. It is said, and there is no guess work about the fact, 70% of the failures to sell are caused by negative personality, and the fault lies wholly within ourselves. Try to put your finger on the thing you could have said. Try to put yourself before the mirror, or the search light, and say "Something was wrong with this sale. It was'not my approach, there is nothing wrong with that, but there is something about me, what is it?" Do you ever stand aside and watch yourselves go by? Do you ever wonder what vibration people got when you said "Good Morning!" or the manner in which you shook hands, or the quality or naturalness of your smile? There is nothing in salesmanship that can be neglected.  Tue BENEFIT OF THE MAGAZINE IN OUR STAKE Josephine Hanks, Union Stake Relief Society President O doubt all of you here present have, at some time, seen a canal with its network of arteries running out in every direction, carrying the life-giving water to the plants and vegetation in the farms and gardens. We can liken our Relief Society Magazine to just such a project. It, too, has a fountain head, and a network of arteries through which it is carried into thousands of homes, and through it comes the spiritual water of life, that which Jesus spoke of at the time He met the woman of Samaria at the well, and asked her for a drink. In Oregon, the rolling hills as well as the lowlands are farmed, and on these far-away farms we have a number of Latter-day Saint families, and the only source of contact these mothers have with the Society, is through the Relief Society Magazine, and when the rare opportunity comes, perhaps once or twice a year, when they can attend meetings, they do not come as strangers, but they are able to take an active part in the lesson discussion, and can talk on the many splendid things that are being accomplished by the Relief Society at home and abroad. Our Agents have been successful in placing the Magazine in a number of non-L. D. S. Homes. Through the faithful efforts of some of our Relief Society sisters, five of the mothers have been converted, and are now active members in the Church. In one of our Wards during the height of our so-called Depression, there were five men out of eightytwo families who had permanent work. The mothers sensed this condition, and they knew if they subscribed to the Magazine for the coming year, and paid their Annual Dues, it was up to them to do something about it. They got busy and put on two splendid entertainments for which they charged a small fee. They had them advertised in the other Wards, and invited their outside friends, and the results were very gratifying indeed. Next they made four beautiful quilts, and one of the mothers having a daughter living in Los Angeles, they disposed of these through her, and realized fifteen or twenty dollars apiece. After they had taken out enough for their Annual Dues and forty-five dollars for Magazine subscriptions, they had a sum left. This splendid piece of work was accomplished through united effort, determination and plenty of hard work. SOCIAL WELFARE DEPARTMENT Amy W. Evans, Chairman HE Quest For Security" offered a most stimulating general theme for this department. President Louise Y. Robison, who is a member of the Utah State Board of Public Welfare, spoke upon "Public Social Security". Mayola Rogers of the Relief Society General Welfare Department discussed “Security and Case Work for The Aged". Harold B. Lee, Chairman of the General Committee, completed the wellrounded program with a very interesting address on "Objectives of the Church Security Plan”. Of all the fears that trouble humanity perhaps the fear of poverty is the most prevalent. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Fortunately for us poverty and happiness are not incompatible; however, we associate closely poverty and misery. We have a great urge for economic security. This has been keenly realized during the past few years as so many have been denied the assurance of work sufficient to supply the bare necessities for existence. In order to provide safeguards against the major misfortunes of life, our Federal Government approved the Social Security Act on August 14, 1935. This Act provides for the following security measures: Unemployment Compensation, Old-Age Assistance and Old-Age Benefits, Security for Children, Aid to the Blind, Extension of Public Health Service, and Vocational Rehabilitation. The States accepting the provisions of this Act must meet the standards of the Federal Government before obtaining Federal funds. A brief explanation of this act may be obtained from your State Welfare Board or from the Social Security Board, Washington, D. C., Information Service, Circular No. 1. Much has been said about financial aid to the aged, but in order to assure a greater degree of happiness for our aged friends we must realize that more must be provided than the bare physical necessities of shelter, food and clothing. More often than not, the aged person needs special medical treatment which, in turn, should be adequately interpreted by one who understands the implications of the deteriorative diseases. 313 The aged person needs to be relieved of worries and fears which seem so simple to us and yet which loom so large in his life. Another great need of most old people is to have someone who can build them up in spirit by listening with genuine interest to recitals of past experiences. Many old people need someone who can restore their faith in youth so they will not feel as if they have been cast aside like "an old shoe". In other words old people need services which go beyond merely handing them a check every month—they need social service. Security for its members, both spiritual and temporal, has been one of the objectives of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from its organization. In order that individuals may gain economic security through their own efforts, and thus preserve their selfrespect and independence, it has been the policy of the Church to start industries, to encourage the development of land for farming and grazing, the raising of farm products and the use of the natural resources of the country. The building of homes, places of recreation and of worship has been a great activity of the Church which has furnished much employment. To meet the present situation of unemployment, the program of the Church is to intensify all these activities and also to create new resources for employment so that the members will still have the opportunity to obtain security through their own work. Ture Work anp Business DEPARTMENT Lalene H. Hart, Chairman PLANNING of 1937-38" was the subject presented by Nettie D. Bradford. The survey of the fine work accomplished was Church-wide in its scope and covered first—A Stake Program for Work and Busi- 314 ness for 1936-37, and second—a Statement of what had been the most successiul plan during the season. Many fine quotations from the reports were included, as suggestions for future plans: Lalene H. Hart presented an outline for a "Project For Every Relief Society Woman". The purpose of this is 'to help women to understand RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE aud to evaluate their own work and their problems". Vivian R. McConkie gave "Work and Business", first—As a Work Day, second—As a Social Day. Leda T. Jensen gave "Better Buymanship"'. Many constructive suggestions were advanced by the Sisters in their able discussions. Details of these will appear in the Magazine later. CHORISTERS' AND ORGANISTS' DEPARTMENT Janet M. Thompson, Chairman REAT numbers of eager choristers and organists met in the auditorium of the Bishops' Building Friday, April 2, to participate in department exercises. A program had been carefully prepared by the Music Committee, so that the problems which beset the choristers and organists might be discussed and helpful suggestions offered. Most of the stakes were represented and the attendance was very gratifying. "Vitalizing Relief Society Music" was the theme of the meeting. Professor Frank W. Asper spoke to the subject from the "Viewpoint of the Organist". His contribution to the success of the meeting was manifested by the interest given his suggestions, and the many questions that were asked were given answers that gave them information and confidence. Excerpts of this informational talk will appear later in the Magazine. Mrs. Charlotte O. Sackett gave to the group many helpful suggestions on proper breathing, tone production, rhythm, etc. Also songs for the year's work were presented, rehearsed, and helpful hints given for the perfecting of these beautiful chorals. The interest manifested, and the large attendance of these faithful choristers and organists are indications that music will rightfully take its place in the educational scheme of Relief Society work. We hail this awakening! ' The songs selected for 'study during the year are the following: "How Lovely are Thy Dwellings, O Lord." "Inflammatus." (Chorus only) "How Lovely Are Thy Messengers." "Crossing the Bar." "Holy Redeemer." "23rd Psalm." (The Lord Is My Shepherd) Helpful Suggestions to Choristers and Organists Always approach your work with a prayerful heart. Try to understand your relationship to the Relief Society meeting as a whole. Choristers and organists must be enthusiastic and carefully prepare their work for the month, if they expect the Wards to make the music a living, vital thing. The Ward Choristers and Organists should be conversant with the lesson work so that appropriate hymns and other songs will be chosen. The music prepares the setting for the meeting. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE The words of the hymns should be understood so that their spiritual meaning may impress every heart. This, in great measure, depends upon the chorister. She must be the magnet to draw from her singers the outpourings of the Spirit. The enjoyment she feels in Song will be contagious. Your job is an important one, not a small one. Be on time to play appropriate prelude music which has been selected and prepared beforehand, Exert every effort to make the music as effective as the other fine educational features. Increase your capabilities by constant study and practice. Always have an ideal in view. A chorister should cultivate pa- 315 tience, consideration for human faults, a sense of humor, adaptability to unpleasant occurrences. Real leadership is manifested in the splendid results of her work. It is not necessary to have a song practice in Union Meetings. This should be done in the music section. Help to elevate the standard of the music in your Ward and Stake. "It is our duty and privilege to honor God by bringing to Him only what is best." Our songs should be in very deed "prayers unto the Lord." The chorister works with the most wonderful musical instrument of all —the human voice. The opportunities of the one working with this instrument are unlimited. Tue SECRETARIES DEPARTMENT Julia A. F. Lund, Chairman HE Secretaries' Department was very interesting. The Value of Records and the importance of accuracy in keeping these was stressed by President Wilford A. Beesley in a most scholarly address which was the basis for an animated discussion in which all participated. RECORD BOOKS. 1937 is the last year for the use of the present Stake and Ward Record Books. Before compiling the new edition, the office is very anxious to have the Secretaries of Relief Society submit their suggestions, which will be given consideration. This should be done just as soon as possible, as the compilation of the new Record Books is to begin at once, and we are anxious to have the reaction of the sisters who use them. The services of an expert Accountant were secured to give advice in the matter. The gentleman in question is a Certified Public Accountant, also a Stake President. This rare combination afforded advice in the most modern and efficient methods of accounting together with an intimate knowledge of the Church set-up and standards. HISTORY AND MINUTES. The attention of the Secretaries is called especially to the history for which space is provided in the Record Book. It is understood that the Secretary of the Relief Society is also its historian. In this part should be given a record of what the organization has accomplished, and the place it has held in community influences and activities; also the record of outstanding personalities, or of events in which Relief Society has participated that have been of special significance to the organization. It is a wonderful page for future reference. The Minutes are a record of executive action and the regular routine 316 of Relief Society programmed work and its accomplishment. It is hoped that the Secretaries will have these up to date and completed before starting on the new book. ANNUAL REPORT. Particular attention was given to the auditing of the Annual Reports and the correcting of the balances. It is not RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE possible for this office to go into every Ward. This is the fine service that is asked of the Stake Secretaries. They know their own Wards and can find the errors which throw the Stake reports out of balance. It is hoped the Stake Secretaries will be able to do this as a preparation for a correct report for the next year. First General Session THE LORD'S DAY By Jennie B. Knight "For the Lord is good; His mercy is everlasting and His truth endureth to all generations." EST we forget, during this period of our conference we are to consider the Sabbath or the Lord's day. What has He said concerning it? According to the Bible the first Sabbath was established by God Himself; celebrating the creation.— Genesis 20:58. "The heavens and the earth were finished and all the host of them. and He rested on the seventh day from all His work, and God blessed the Sabbath day and sanctified it." The Ten Commandments written by the hand of God on Sinai reveal His deep interest in the spiritual and physical welfare and happiness of His children. (See Exodus 20.) That the Israelites might be impressed with the sanctity of the Sabbath, during their travels in the wilderness, God sent no manna on that day but they were commanded to gather twice as much on the sixth as on any other day. Down through the corridors of time we find the prophets, Isaiah, Nehemiah, Ezekiel and others declaring the word of God in explicit instructions regarding His holy day. Through Ezekiel He made a covenant saying, "Hallow my Sabbaths; and they shall be a sign between me and you, that they may know that I am the Lord your God." Jesus honored the Sabbath day and proclaimed himself Lord of the Sabbath, emphasizing its blessedness when he proclaimed that the Sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath. That Sabbath observance and partaking of the Lord's supper on that day was a custom of the Christian churches, is attested by the Apostles Mark, Luke, John and Paul. The benedictions of a sacred Sabbath were not withheld from the people of Book of Mormon days, that these benedictions are vouchsafed to all who obey the commandments of God is reiterated by Joseph Smith—Doctrine and Covenants, Section 59. "Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things. That thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer, and offer up thy sacraments upon My holy day. For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High. "Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE days and at all times, but remember that on this the Lord's day thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High confessing thy sins. "And on this day thou shalt do none other thing only let thy food be prepared, with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or 317 in other words, that thy joy may be full. And inasmuch as ye do these things with cheerful hearts and countenances the fullness of the earth is yours." That we may know thy truth, that endureth to all generations, "Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet, lest we forget, lest we forget." PHYSICAL VALUE OF A DAY OF REST By Beatrice F. Stevens THE Sabbath day was instituted much earlier than the time of Moses at Mount Sinai, but evidently the Israelites at that time needed to be forcefully reminded of this commandment. In our day there is serious need for bringing to mind the significance of this day, a need to remember blessings derived from its proper observance. While it brings definite obligations, it was never intended that the Lord's day be made burdensome, but rather to add joy and happiness to our lives. Immeasurable good comes from making it truly a day of worship and rest, and not the least of the benefits derived, are physical. All diligent members of our Church know that for them the Sabbath is not a day of rest in the sense of idleness, one with no responsibilities. Yet it should be and is for relaxation. There are many ways to receive physical refreshment. When the Lord asked that one-seventh of all time be set apart for rest and worship, He knew the needs of those ancient people, and foresaw what would be best for us today. He has given us much to help safeguard physical health in this age of speed and distracting conditions —our Word of Wisdom and our Day of Rest. There is nothing of greater importance to us as mothers than keeping in good health—so much of the well-being of those dearest to us depends upon that. To awaken on a Sabbath morning knowing it will be an exceptional, a very special day, the culmination of six days of wise planning, what a reassuring and restful experience. The relief from fatigue that comes from too constant performing of the same tasks, is most conducive to good health. Rest is not only a great step toward the cure of disease but an important aid in its prevention, both mental and physical. Because the nature of physical man is to deteriorate, a resting time is necessary to recreate and preserve our capabilities. There is much today that gives us concern as parents. Patience, sympathetic understanding and proper example will aid materially in solving our problems. Is it not of untold value for the father to have one day a week when he may draw closer to his family and enjoy the relaxation that comes from a more intimate and friendly contact? Being in church in the atmosphere of worship, brings peace. There, I for one, may find freedom from cares that weary and disturb my peace of mind. It is a good place to check on the past week's activities and discover mistakes, thereby gaining 318 strength and wisdom that may help toward improvement. Jesus said the Sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath. The important thing is to use it wisely in order to receive the greatest blessings. To be the people the Lord would have us be, "a light set upon a hill," RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE depends upon individual members of the Church. It should be the aim of each to perfect himself, spiritually, mentally and physically. What a wonderful opportunity the Sabbath day offers for these objectives! If we are attuned to the spirit of the day, we will "think the most, feel the noblest and act the best." EXAMPLE OF PARENTS, AS RELATED TO THE OBSERVANCE OF THE SABBATH DAY By Vivian R. McConkie T is written: "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it." This is a challenge to the women of the Church, and they ought to respond according to Church standards, among which standards Sabbath Day observance is of major importance. "Training" implies conduct control, and not merely teaching moral codes. Parents who do not teach religion by example as well as by precept, and who do not train by restraints, when necessary, build foundations on the sand, and winds of skepticism may entice their children from truth. Faith and understanding must be developed, if the child knows that there is a God who rewards for well doing and who punishes for transgression. Without a knowledge of the gospel there is no security, and if parents fail to teach and to train their children in the Church, the sin will "be upon the heads of the parents," but the par-. Ents' suffering will not save the children. Divergent opinions prevail as to precepts because of lack of scriptural understanding. Private interpretations stimulate false standards and invite senseless yieldings to unsound philosophies. Mothers ought to restrain and to direct during maturity of reasoning faculties. Habitual repetition makes acts agreeable, and it is shameful to permit destructive repetitions in children of tender years, without restraint. Intelligent direction of desires is surely as important as going to school on time, yet we unhesitatingly require that. With relation to the Sabbath, parents should first know what ought to be done on that day, and then should adjust their ideals to conform to Church standards, rather than to shape Church standards to their ideals. If parents would study the scriptures more and more confusion as to standards would grow less and less, Objective study is a high form of learning. It will help one to establish purposive co-ordinated activity between mind and body Understand the nature of your children and know your own ideals are patterned after the divine will, then study the means of their achievement. Never relax your efforts until mental development makes safe election possible. Control the child's acts and direct his thoughts and ambitions until he acquires self direction and judgment. When his reasoning powers mature he will see the wisdom of imposed restrictions. Watch their spiritual training and development as you do their daily diet, and habits of cleanliness and their mental and physical RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE progress. Your child will be happiest If you do not require him to decide whether he will obey the law. During the formative period the parents' standards and examples are the child's ideals. Therefore, the parent ought never to sin even though others are sinning, or to be little even though hedged in by little 319 people, or to lower himself to match lower standards, or to do as Romans do (if evil) because he is in Rome. Elect the good. There is no middle ground. Hear Joshua: "And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom ye will serve,... But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." SACRAMENT—PHYSICAL ASPECT By Counselor Kate M. Barker HE Lord, through the Prophet Haggai, rebuked His people for their neglect of the temple at Jerusalem. Because of their negligence they had lost the blessing of the Spirit of the Lord. But after the people had been stirred to a new loyalty and devotion, and the temple had been rebuilt, having the best they had to offer put into it, the Lord spoke again, saying: "I am with you." He knew that the care they took of the places of worship was indicative of the depth of their love of the Gospel. In partaking of the Sacrament we have a glorious privilege of atuning our spirits with the Spirit of our Heavenly Father. Our spirits are sensitive to physical surroundings, and should not be disturbed by lack of care in the physical aspect of the Sacrament Service. I wonder if, as a Relief Society organization, we could not cooperate with our Bishops by taking the responsibility of having the Sacrament cloth freshly washed and ironed for every service! Our Father in Heaven expects us to profit by the light He has given us, and in this day we know about germs. We could help set the standard in our Wards that the Sacrament glasses be sterilized after each service, so that when we partake of the Sacrament we will not be wondering if the glasses are sanitary—that in passing the Sacrament to another we are all careful about our hands, gloves, coat sleeves, that we do not do anything which detracts our neighbor's mind from the sacredness of the ordinance. We are the mothers of the boys who pass the Sacrament. So much of what the boy feels is of most importance depends upon what the parent feels is important. When our children graduate from school we, by our very attitude of pride, by our attendance, by our interest in their personal appearance, make them feel how proud we are, and the importance of the occasion. Can we not see what we are doing to our boys when we pay less attention when they are asked to pass the Sacrament? Let us go to Church with them, make them feel that we are so proud of the honor which has come to them. Let us impress upon them the sacredness of the Sacrament, that this is a very special occasion, that they must take particular care of their personal appearance, that hands and nails must be immaculate, that this is one of the greatest services they will ever have the opportunity to perform. Could we not have a white shirt for them, which we take care to have freshly laundered, and see that every boy has such a shirt?  THE COVENANTS OF THE DAY By Leda T. Jensen FROM the New Testament, the Book of Mormon, and the Doctrine and Covenants, we have definite and ample proof that our Savior, the Redeemer of mankind, made the partaking of the sacrament a vital and necessary part of the spiritual life of his followers in both the meridian of time and in this dispensation. The sacred covenant with its attendant blessing which we repeat as we consecrate the emblems of the broken body and the spilt blood of the Lord has been revealed to the Latter-day Saints so that we have the exact words of the covenant recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants. As a witness to this sacred scripture, we have the same blessings of consecration recorded by Moroni in the Book of Mormon. The sacrament is administered to commemorate the atonement of the Lord Jesus as consummated in His agony and death. Each time we partake of the sacred emblems we manifest before the Father that we do remember His Son, and by the act of partaking of the bread and the cup, we make solemn covenant that we do take upon us the name of our Redeemer, and make a pledge and an agreement that we will keep his commandments, and we do this in the hope that we may have his Spirit to be with us. No member of the Church who refuses to observe this sacred ordinance can retain the inspiration and guidance of the Holy Ghost. If we really realized and felt the need of spiritual food for growth, we would be present at the appointed place where this may be and is administered. Why do we not all come? Is it because we do not feel ourselves worthy to partake, or is it because we do not appreciate the reason and significance for partaking? If we are properly instructed we know that it is not our privilege to partake of the emblems in sin and transgression. The one thing that would make for the safety of every man and woman would be to appear at the sacrament table every Sabbath. We would not go so far astray in one week that we could not rectify the wrong we have done. The weekly observance of this ordinance would help us to be worthy to partake. The Father looked on with great grief and agony at the earthly sufferings of His Son, but His love for us made it possible for Him to give the Savior to us, the Redeemer of the world. If we knew what it cost our Father to give us His Son, if we realized how essential the sacrifice made by Jesus is to us, we would always be present at the sacrament table to honor the gift that has come to us. As the Standard Bearers of the Church, we need the sacrament. We need to renew our covenants every week. We need the Spirit of the Lord so we may be able to keep ourselves unspotted from the sins of the world, from Sabbath to Sabbath, and some day be worthy to eat and drink with our Savior, in His Father's kingdom.  THE SACRAMENT MEETING BLESSES THE WHOLE FAMILY By Rae Barlow Barker JESUS could foresee the complications, confusion, and uncertainty of life in our day. He knew we would need the blessings He had promised if we observed His sacrament: peace, strength in right doing, assurance of His power, "His Spirit to be with us." If we succeed in obtaining these blessings for the whole family, we must do more than wish and hope. The desired results will need the best efforts of both the home and the church. The guiding hand of an ingenious, planning parent will be needed which can bring the family together to enjoy varied activities. Then, going to sacrament meeting together will more naturally follow. If there is a spirit of tolerance in the home, and a genuine display of fellowship in our sacrament meeting, many who now feel unwanted may be encouraged to be with us. An old philosopher claimed there were three roads to accomplishment: inspiration, investigation, and application. That parent, and we might also add that speaker, can best inspire who himself has been inspired. Investigation should include more than a study of the gospel. It might stand us in hand to know what our children's interests are. If we stand on common ground with them in our thinking, it will be much easier to direct their activities on the Sabbath day. Application will demand all the tact, faith, and intelligent planning at our command. A well-planned work-week, with opportunity for recreation, is important. One mother knew the secret of forming habits. She often correlated her children's happy experiences with their Sabbath meeting, saying, while they were still enjoying a particular situation, "There are many ways of displaying gratitude for these good things. One way is to go with thankful hearts to partake of the sacrament." That family regularly enjoys the benefits of the sacrament meeting. After Jesus administered the Last Supper to the disciples, He said, "If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them." Knowledge is a personal thing. As individuals and parents we may know that the benefits of the sacrament service are realities. It does not follow, however, that the members of our families possess the same knowledge. But with faith, study, and activity we can each know. We have a real challenge to stimulate those near us to find out for themselves if the promises hold good. Can we meet the challenge? Not wholly within the family. The sacrament meeting itself has a responsibility—also the individual. Competitive interests make it necessary that we are ever on the alert to improve the quality of our meetings. Each of us can contribute to the sacrament service by his presence if he goes in the spirit of worship. With the sacrament, as with the radio, we have to be where the instrument is and be "tuned in" if we want to get the message, The Book of Mormon promises that if we ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, He will manifest the truth to us. Can we stimulate our families to apply a similar test to the worth of the sacrament meeting? Can we open to them the vision that by mutual participation our lives are enriched? "If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them."  THE following are the organizations and reorganizations since October Conference. ORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Appointed President Feb., 1937 Chicago Lois E. Astin REORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Released Appointed President Feb., 1937 Cassia Effie H. Walker Annie M, Mercer Nov., 1936 Duchesne Evelyn C. Moffitt Margaret M. Pace (deceased) Jan., 1937 Ogden Ida M. Treseder Cora S. Jenkins Nov., 1936 Rigby Lettie E. Call Phoebe Gordon (deceased) Oct., 1936 Moroni Mt. Ogden Almira C. Rich Ethel B. Andrew Mar., 1937 Oquirrh Phoebe Ridd Ella P. Bennion Feb., 1937 Curlew Mary J. Pixton Anna S. Blackham (deceased) Jan., 1937 West Jordan Lillian Ivory Rebecca N. Cutler (deceased) Dennis A. Larkin Evelyn Neilsen The Relief Society organization felt greatly honored by the presence of Sister Luacine S. Clark, who added her expressions of appreciation and her encouragement to the sisters in their work. Second General Session REPORT ON EUROPEAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETIES Emily T. Merrill, Former President IN the European Missions four Conferences are held each year. Two are devoted to the Priesthood activities, the other two are auxiliary conference-conventions, in which the auxiliaries combine, perhaps the Relief Society and Sunday School, or the Relief Society and Primary. These conferences begin on Saturday evening, usually with a social meeting, and three meetings on Sunday are devoted to conference work. The home group plan, adopted in the European Mission wherever possible, has given increased responsibility to the local saints, the priesthood and members of the Church. According to this plan, the districts and branches are patterned after the Stakes and Wards of the Church here in the States, and the District Presidencies and the Branch Presidencies are local members. This has released the Elders from much of the work which they had to do in presiding over these units of the Church, and has given them much more time for proselyting activities. It has also increased the opportunity of the local saints for activity, and that has had splendid results. We know that we gain through activity, and we enjoy our membership in the Church better when we are active. In the Missions the auxiliary organizations are supervised by a Mission Board, with a minimum of four members—Presidency and Secretary. The districts have supervisors and the branches have such officers and teachers as circumstances will permit. More teachers could be used, but there is always a shortage of suitable leadership. Where there is a good Relief Society there will be a live, active branch. Relief Society is the mainstay of the Branch and the righthand of the Branch President.. Our Branches for the most part are small, and therefore our Relief Society groups are small. The membership is scattered over a great area, and for the most part they are poor people. Transportation is quite an item in their limited budget. When they come to the meetings on Sunday they feel that is all they can afford. In a number of the missions where this scattered membership exists, the sisters meet on Sunday, while the Priesthood are gathered in their meetings. There are a great many older sisters who are timid and hesitate to go out in the evening. These meet in the afternoon, and the younger sisters who are engaged during the day meet in the evening. There is no uniformity as to day or hour, but it was felt advisable to hold these meetings when as many as possible of these sisters could benefit by the wonderful work done by the Relief Society. The sisters do enjoy the lesson material which the General Board provides. Special attention has been given to the preparation of these lessons, in order to meet the needs and conditions of the different missions. You know all of the lessons must be translated into a foreign language, and sometimes books from 323 which the lesson material is prepared are not available in these foreign languages. Special lessons in social service work have been written, and literary lessons taken from the literature of these particular countries; the German literary lessons from German literature, and the French from French, and so on. Much thought has been given to this, and the mission workers and mission authorities are certainly very grateful for this wonderful service. Many of our devoted members are called upon to make sacrifices in a financial and social way because of their membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but they make these gladly and willingly because of the abundance and richness of life that has come to them because of their faith and membership in the Church. No better way could we all serve and preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ than in our way of living, showing the spirit of true brotherhood and sisterhood. It seems to me what the world needs today more than anything else is a demonstration of Christianity in action. Since the main purpose of Relief Society has always been to render service, we have called upon the sisters over there to do some special work. You know when you want something well done, you call on the sisters to do it. At the Mission Presidents' Conference held in June, 1935, in Liege, Belgium, the Presidents decided to ask the Relief Society sisters to organize a Home and Neighborhood Primary. This effort has been crowned with success in many ways. We had to take the outstanding leadership to do this, but other sisters of the groups were called forward to learn to be leaders in our Relief Societies. These Home and Neighborhood Primaries all had enrolled children of non-members; the sisters became acquainted with the mothers of these children and entered the homes and had an opportunity to leave a message. Many of these mothers became interested enough to come to Church and to Relief Society meetings, and some joined the Church. A great number of the children who were contacted are now enrolled in our Sunday Schools. The benefit of this is, that all those who were contacted heard the message of the restored Gospel. The seed was sown—who knows what the harvest may be! We might not see, but some day this message will come back to them. The growth of the Church on the outside is very slow, but there is growth from within. We can only hold the children and the young people of our members through our organization work. The Relief Society sisters are outstanding leaders in the Gleaner, Sunday School and other organizations. Those of you who have sons and daughters laboring in these foreign missions I am sure would like to hear just a few words about the mission authorities, especially the mission mothers. These are set apart as consulting advisors to all the women's organizations, and are selected as president of the Relief Society, or the Primary or the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, whichever organization needs them most, or the one in which work they are most familiar. In addition to these duties, all the material used in the foreign mission needs to be translated, and adapted to the country, and this is the work of the mission mothers. They have a family also which needs the supervision and the care of a mother just as if they were living here, and the family has grown tremendously. All the missionaries, your sons and daughters, are members of the Mission President's family, and that is a great responsibility. Many of these young people have never been away from home, they are in strange lands, among strange conditions and people. Is it any wonder that they become homesick and disheartened? And so the Mission President and his wife encourage them, cheer them up, advise them, stand by them, pray for them as they would for their own children. I think no parents could be more concerned with the health and welfare of these missionaries than are the mission parents. ADDRESS By Counselor Kate M. Barker WE all appreciate life and opportunity. We are thankful we were born in this wonderful age. But great blessings and opportunities mean great responsibility. Our Father in Heaven is watching over the earth and has a glorious plan of establishing the Kingdom of God on earth. He also has a general plan for each of His children, and is depending on each of us to help further the Gospel plan. If we appreciate this, can we do less than put our best effort into the work? Can ourstandards be too high? Jesus said, "He who is not for me is against me." I think He meant actively for, and that inasmuch as we are passive, think superficially, inasmuch as we fail to put enough effort and time into our thinking and doing, so that we are thinking and acting straight and honest, inasmuch as we fail to put our heart and soul into the work RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE just so much are we against Him. But we can only be sure we are solving our problems in the right way if we have the help of our Father in Heaven. He has said "Look unto me in every thought, doubt not, fear not." But "There is a law irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of the world upon which all blessings are predicated." We have been given very definite laws governing prayer. We must ask in faith. Faith does not come without effort—waiting until the moment of need and saying, "I will have faith." Faith comes through obedience. Our prayers must be sincere. They are sincere when we put forth our best efforts and then humbly ask for guidance or confirmation. When Oliver Cowdery wished to translate a part of the Book of Mormon he failed to receive the necessary inspiration, and the Lord said to him: "Behold you have not understood; you have supposed that I would give it unto you when you took no thought save it was to ask me." There is a 325 difference between asking our Father in Heaven to bless the poor, and in asking that we may see the needs and help to bring the blessing. Let us pray for our Church leaders, but let us also give our Father in Heaven the assurance that if He will inspire our leaders we will put forth our best effort to follow their guidance. The Lord has also said, "Pray in your families." Family prayer will do much to keep the family close together. Praying together does something to people. But there is a difference between praying and saying our prayers. Family prayers must never become routine. Let us show our children what prayer means to us. When Jesus was with His disciples He received so much help and comfort from prayer that they said, "Lord teach us to pray." Let our prayers be that we may have new insight, and new unselfishness that we may not disappoint our Father in Heaven in the tasks He has given us to perform. President Grant's address and that of Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon will appear in a later issue of the magazine. ADDRESS By President Louise Y. Robison WE have been greatly blessed during our two days' Conference. We are grateful to our Heavenly Father that so many of our Sisters have been in attendance, and especially are we thankful for the outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord which has been in our meetings. The six months since our Relief Society Conference in October have been very busy months. Conference-conventions were held in many Stakes in October, November, and in the early part of December. Reports of the excellent work of Relief Society brought back by the General Board Members were most gratifying. Sister Lyman, now President of Relief Societies of the European Mission, attended the International Council of Women in Dubrovnik, Yugoslavia, representing the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association and Relief Society and as a Delegate from the United States Council of Women. We have kept in touch with all the Mission Relief Societies through a monthly Bulletin, which has been greatly appreciated. In almost every letter from our Mission Presidents word comes of the benefit of these messages. Before Christmas we sent a Bulletin to all Relief Societies urging mothers not to buy toy fire-arms for their children. We have had favorable comment on this movement in many Eastern newspapers as well as those published at home. We are deeply interested in alcohol education and have purchased a moving picture film entitled "The Beneficent Reprobate", which is a powerful lesson on the injurious effects of alcohol in the body and also the benefit of alcohol in industry. Through the cooperation of the General Boards of Sunday School, the Mutual, and the Primary, this has had a showing to a vast number of people. We are indebted to Brother Hamer Reiser of the Sunday School Board and Brother Orson Goddard for exhibiting this picture. We hope to create interest in having alcohol education taught in schools. Will you Sisters take this matter up with your School Boards and have the children and young people taught what alcohol is and what alcohol does? We are delighted with the work of our. Magazine Agents. There are 220 Wards which have reached 100% subscribers. We are deeply interested in the type of radio and moving picture programs which our children hear and see. A listening adult is passive but children absorb wild programs and live them. A friend of mine has a young son who has been listening to one of the programs which tell most vividly the methods used in killing people. This mother was shocked when, a few weeks ago, this very young son said, "The kidnaper of the Matson boy did his work all wrong. Now I would have done so-and-so." Broadcasting and moving RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE picture companies are eager to present the type of program which the people wish. If all mothers would take the pains to know what children hear and see, then write these companies expressing appreciation for suitable programs and also telling why others are objectionable, we would have more wholesome entertainment. I had the privilege of attending the National Council of Women in New York, in December, where an excellent forum was held. Many of the subjects can be carried into our organization with profit. For instance, Mr. Ralph Borsodi, who has made a study of the subject over many years, gave us some information on the value of good housekeeping. Mr. Borsodi claims that the profession of housekeeper is the most valuable of all professions and economically of great importance. That women who make homes—rear and teach children—who direct the educational and spiritual activities of the family and who spend the family income wisely—are certainly not inferior to women who earn money in the business or professional world. Discussing this subject, we wonder why so many of our Latter-day Saint girls choose almost any sort of employment rather than house work, and more disturbing still is the knowledge that many of those who accept such a position are frequently poorly prepared. Some do not even know how to make good bread, and sewing is almost a lost art. Referring again to the subjects discussed at the National Council under the title "Education for Marriage", Dr.. Parker said, "There is no avenue which people are entering for which persons are so poorly prepared as marriage and the responsibility of rearing a family." If this is true, it is especially serious for Latter-day RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE Saints, for we know that the family is not a temporary group, but should and does continue throughout eternity. Are Relief Society mothers preparing their children—sons as well as daughters—for this most important undertaking? I was in conversation with a man who, a few years ago, was manager of a store in a mining community. He stated that it was the custom for miners to run charge accounts at the store. A number of these miners received the same amount of wages, but the difference in the manner of spending was unbelievable. As a result some would be constantly in debt, while the thoughtful, well-trained families would have a surplus. Can one wonder why, when one of these women who had a family of growing children, daily bought five or six loaves of bread and two dozen cookies? At the average price of ten cents a loaf, the bread bill would be $15 a month. Flour may be more expensive now, but not long ago a good housekeeper told me that she could make 40 loaves of bread out of a dollar's worth of flour. You who have access to the April copy of the Readers Digest, read an article by Kathleen Norris— "A Plea for Less 'Happy' Talk": Under consumers department, the slogan "Know what you want—buy what you ask for" brought out interesting information. We are studying this in our Relief Society in order to know what material will give the greatest service and the most pleasure. Can there be more worthwhile projects than these I have just men- 327 tioned, for us to consider in our homes and in the Relief Society? In almost every Ward there are women who are bewildered with the responsibilities of home, because they do not know how to meet the situation. For years Relief Society women have been making quilts and clothing for women who do not know how to sew; now we want to help them find happiness in sewing for their own children. I hope all women will cooperate. McDonald says, "To have what we want is riches, but to be able to do without is power." The story is told that the servant of the Grail, in the dawn that preceded the coming of Parsifal, aroused the young men about him with the stirring cry—'Hark to the trumpets! Come, let us thank our God that we have the power to hear the call of life and the power to answer as the duty calls." If we wish to have "the power to answer as duty calls" the privilege is ours. Our Father answers earnest prayers of women today as He ever has done. But it is not enough to know, we must learn to act on what we know. Let us return to our homes with the earnest desire to meet life courageously. Let us develop within our own lives those virtues which will give us the power to help others to live more abundantly. Our Church offers us the opportunity—Relief Society is the medium through which we may develop the finest attributes of life.  


Vol. XXIV MAY, 1937 No.5 Editorials Memorial Day IT IS a beautiful thing for the living to think in loving appreciation of the dead. Calling to mind their virtues helps to strengthen the virtues of those who remember. People shrink from oblivion; they like not only a personal immortality but also to have so lived and achieved that those after them hold them in reverence, their achievements in honor, Memorial Day had its origin when two years after the Civil War the women of Columbus, Mississippi strewed flowers alike on the graves of the Confederate and of the National soldiers. So moved was Francis Miles Finch that he wrote his beautiful lyric "The Blue and the Gray," which has become the credo of the day. No practical results came from this incident until May, 1868, when Adjutant-General N. P. Chipman suggested to the National Commander John A. Logan of the Grand Army of the Republic that their organization should inaugurate the custom of spreading flowers over the graves of Union soldiers at some specified time. Thereupon General Logan issued an order naming the 30th day of May, 1868, "for the purpose of strewing with flowers or otherwise decorating the graves of comrades who died defending their country during the late rebellion, and whose bodies now lie in almost every city, village, or hamlet churchyard in the land. * * * It is the purpose of the commander-in-chief to inaugurate this observance with the hope that it will be kept up from year to year while a survivor of the war remains to honor the memory of the departed." Since then Memorial Day has become a holy day. Not only are the graves of soldiers decorated but friends and relatives go to "God's Acre" with flowers to pay tribute to those they loved in life and love in death. EDITORIALS 329 Tithing IT has come to be the custom in the Church to feature the subject of tithing during the month of May. The call is "Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it." How richly blessed those have been who have observed this law. One of the great battles all have to fight is against selfishness and those who pay tithing become less selfish, learn to give joyously, and learn to practice thrift and economy. It brings happiness to them to do with less that the Church may be built up. Tithing helps the one who pays it to learn to love the Father, his children and his work more and more. Reception in Honor of President Brigham Young ON Tuesday evening, June 1, 1937, in the room adjoining the historic Lion House on the east, which was originally used by President Brigham Young as