his office, will be held a formal reception from 7 to 10 p. M. When the public is invited to come and pay respects to the memory of this great colonizer. In the receiving line will be the officers of the John Young Family Association, J. Don Carlos Young, only living son of President Young, and the following daughters of President Young: Clarissa (Clint) Y. Spencer, Ruth Y. Healy, Mabel Y. Sanborn, and Fannie V. Y. Clayton. Next in line will stand the L. D. S. Church Presidency, followed by His Excellency, the Governor, His Honor, the Mayor, and presidents of the State organizations of the Sons and Daughters of the Utah Pioneers. After passing the receiving line the guests will be invited to go to the Lion House where members of the Sons and Daughters organizations of the Utah Pioneers will conduct them through the various rooms of this historic Pioneer home. While the family for many years has celebrated President Young's birthday in family reunions, this is the first formal reception to be given. It is intended that it shall be repeated on each anniversary, so that all who desire may participate in paying respect to the memory of this great pioneer. Dr. Joseph T. Kingsbury DR. JOSEPH T. KINGSBURY, President Emeritus of the University of Utah, passed away April 10, 1937. For nearly sixty years he was associated with the University? a longer service than that of any other of his associates. He joined the institution in 1878 when there were only three teachers. He served as Instructor, Professor, Acting President, Vice-President, and President, and since 1916 as President Emeritus. As a tribute to his splendid service Kingsbury Hall was named in his honor. President Kingsbury was faithful to every trust. He was honest, sincere, mild, gentle, yet firm and un- 330 yielding when matters of principle were concerned. He was ever kind, considerate, thoughtful, a lover of peace and harmony. He had a philosophical turn of mind, his decisions being reached after careful study and Lillie T. LILLIE T. FREEZE, one of the well known and greatly loved women of the Church, passed away March 23 at the age of eighty-one. Three of her four children survive, a son and two gifted, fine daughters who lovingly ministered to her. During her long life she has played many parts. When but four she appeared in dramatics. As a young woman she assisted her father and brothers in making a garden. Later she carried sacks of wheat that she had gleaned from Forest Dale to her home on First South and Tenth East Street. She assisted her father in constructing a rock house, carrying rocks and water up a ladder to the second story. Later she worked in a candy store and factory to secure means to enable her to attend school. For fifty years she served as a member of the General Board of the Primary Association, and for fifteen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE thinking the subject through. Serene, stable, a man of strong character and sound judgment, he moved through life shedding a beneficent influence on those with whom he mingled. Freeze years as a member of the General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, holding both offices at the same time. She traveled extensively and did much writing. Later she served as President of the Relief Society at Ocean Park for two years, was Counselor for two years, and for four years was a member of the California Relief Society Mission Board. Although she endured great physical suffering for many years, she was ever sweet, cheerful, interested in people, causes and events, and has brought sunshine and encouragement wherever she has been. She deeply appreciated lovely poems and fine prose and was wont to clip extensively. Then when she thought a certain poem or thought would bless a friend, she sent it to her. In her life she exemplified how beautiful a thing it is to suffer and be strong. A MOTHER'S OPPORTUNITY WHAT gratitude fills a mother's heart when her son is ordained a Deacon. If she has been wise, she has studied, thought and prayed that she might herself realize and then lead her son to sense the wonder and the power and the glory of receiving power delegated from God. She will endeavor to see that he magnifies his calling, faithfully fulfills his obligations and does to the best of his ability every duty connected with this office. Thus admonished by his mother a boy should be outstanding in his quorum.