THE END Glorious Motherhood By Agnes Just Reid WHEN a young mother hears the cry of her first-born, she feels that the ecstasy of that moment can never be equalled, but when a second baby comes her joy is two-fold. Imagine then a mother who has seventeen times experienced the thrill of motherhood and who still has that number of living, loving, healthy, intelligent children. How can one mother heart hold so much of joy! SUCH is the lot of Dorothy Dean Yancey, of Blackfoot, Idaho. She does not, however, think that she has done much. She told her experiences—and such experiences, hesitatingly because she could not see how they would be interesting to anyone else. The Yanceys are not wealthy people in the way the world measures wealth. Most of their married lives they have lived on a farm where there was much hard work and little reward. Now, Mr. Yancey has a small trucking business. Wherever they live, the problem of the homemaker has been the same, keeping the washing and the mending and the sewing and the cooking done for this big family, yet this brave woman does it all and finds time to help on the outside to bring in something to help meet expenses. She has been blessed with good health, but there is something besides good health that has carried her through thirty years of married life and kept her youth still shining in her face. As a child, she loved babies more than anything in the world. At her mother's home the babies grew up too soon so that she never had a chance to take care of them. She determined to have lots of babies in her own home. When her first one was one year old, the second one was born, so that while she held one in her arms, she reached out and held a bottle for the older one to get his food. Since that time, her busy hands have always been doing double duty. Only six months of her married life has she had help in her house. After the first twins were born, she did not get strong right away and she was obliged to hire help. She has had twins three times. The last pair, and the youngest of the family, are now four years old. When they were born there were six babies too young to go to school. Six babies at once! Most mothers would consider six a good sized family and would prefer a few years between birthdays, not this dauntless mother. When asked about wash day, she said: "Oh, I get along all right. I always get up earlier on wash day, about three o'clock, and have it ail out of the way by the time the children get up." On ordinary days she gets breakfast while the family is getting around, then the older children do the kitchen work while she cleans GLORIOUS MOTHERHOOD rooms and makes beds, so by the time the children go to school, the work is done and this busy mother is free to sew or to go out to work for others. Does she ever go to Church? Oh, yes. The whole family never fails to go to Church twice every Sunday. She gets up a little earlier to get them all ready but she does not mind that. She also attends Relief Society meetings regularly and teaches a class. It looks as if the hardest days might be over for this busy mother since there really is not as much to be done in her town home as there was on the farm. As the older children grew up to help with the house work, she did much of the outdoor farm work. Whenever possible she has thinned beets, plowed beets and cut potatoes. One spring she cut eight hundred sacks of seed, averaging seventy-five sacks a day. Some of the neighbors were skeptical so they gathered to see her give
a demonstration. She not only proved that she could cut that many but some of the doubters went over a sack carefully and found only three sets without eyes. No machine yet invented can keep pace with her. There has never been a death in the Yancey family but one baby was still-born and four others were premature and never lived. Three of the older ones are married; one son returned recently from a mission in South Carolina, and a daughter works for the Interstate Commerce Commission at Washington, D. C. The rest of the family she has with her and when things seem too quiet around the house, she borrows one of her grandchildren for a while. She has even been called in to take care of other people's children while they go on vacations, for the neighbors all realize that she is a most remarkable mother.
MAY DAY REVERIE By Della Adams Leitner
Children round the May pole dancing Weaving ribbons gay; Prisms flashing on green velvet, Greet the month of May.
Watching you, oh tripping fairies, Time rolls back the scroll, Happy childhood playmates join me Circling round the pole.
Precious memories they bring me,: Though the teardrops start,- Treasuring these, I keep forever May day in my heart,