The Promise By Blanche Sego
ELEANOR MARTIN opened her shabby pocketbook and placed the five dollar bill inside, as she thanked her employer and left the store. It was her earnings for the few days in which she had held the position as clerk in the small country grocery, during the rush of customers that the sale had brought. Holding her head high with a new sense of self reliance, she walked slowly down the sidewalk. Which store would be the best for her intended purchases? She wondered. Benton's, the one on the left, did not keep the kind of shoes she wanted for the twins; but they might have the cunning little anklets with the rose stripe, she had dreamed of purchasing to match the shoes. Well, she would try Burdick's. They would be almost sure to have both—then a sudden thought came to her and she stopped outside the door weak and ashamed. The tithing! There was the fifty cents due on this five dollars; then four dollars more on that forty Dewey earned in the early spring. They had postponed payment of tithing thinking that they could get more money later. Three times she had been in possession of enough to pay it; but each time had smothered conscience with the thought that the children were needing things so badly that she would wait. Dewey too, had been willing to wait. He had been gone now, two weeks, seeking employment. The last letter she received from him was so full of hopelessness and bitterness that she had cried for hours over it and had prayed earnestly that he would soon be fortunate enough to find work. There was barely enough flour in the house for another baking of bread. Where would the next come from? If she used this five dollars she could purchase flour and the articles for the twins, also. Even as the thought came to her, however, there came also another. As if in accusation the words came to her mind: "Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say wherein have we robbed Thee? In tithes and offerings." Then the promise following these words came to her. The promise of the Lord that upon those who gave their tithes and offerings, He would open the windows of heaven, and pour out such a blessing that there should not be room enough to receive it. Eleanor's face suddenly lighted. She had decided. Even though it would take all but fifty cents of her earnings, she would pay their tithing. The fifty cents would be more than sufficient for the purchase of the anklets, and she supposed she could black the children's old shoes so that they would do a little longer. With light feet she hastened on her way to Bishop Hadley's house, anxious to pay it now for fear temptation might be too strong for her before the following fast day. The bishop happened to be at home. He kindly inquired concerning her health and that of her family, adding later that he hoped they were in improved circumstances. It was on the tip of Eleanor's
THE PROMISE
tongue to blurt out the truth; they had only two or three handfuls of flour in the house; that the twins were needing clothing, and that even now, her husband was walking the streets of a nearby city, tired, hungry and hopeless. However she shut her lips firmly together and remained silent. They would try a little longer without asking the bishop for assistance. As he made out the receipt, Bishop Hadley remarked, "I am pleased to see more tithing coming in. Our ward has been behind on its tithes and offerings, and many of our people are in need of assistance, which it is often difficult to render because of this. The condition is improving lately, I am glad to say." Again a surge of shame swept Eleanor. Of what had she been thinking? Of course she must give the remaining fifty cents in her possession for a fast offering. She could not recall but one offering that had been given by them during the entire year. Hurriedly she gave the money to the bishop. "Here is our fast offering for the month, Bishop Hadley. As I may not have the opportunity of attending the next fast meeting, I will give it to you now." Thanking him as he gave her the tithing receipt, she started homeward, conscious of a sweet peace and calm that had settled over her troubled spirit. The twins must wear their ragged shoes and stockings, but it really did not seem to matter so much after all. She, Eleanor Martin had done her
duty, and the little she had given might help some poor family in greater need than her own.
THAT night after kissing the children good night, and patting their yellow curls as they strayed over the pillow, she knelt by their bedside and prayed that they all might be able to obtain the necessities of life and be ever faithful. Two days later Eleanor received a letter from her husband. How different it was from the previous one! After wandering for days, seeking work, he had made the acquaintance of a splendid young man, who, he later learned was head of a large business firm there in the city. Upon hearing her husband's story and receiving references from him, the young man had given him employment which paid well and would last for some time. This had happened two days before; the evening of the day upon which Eleanor had given her offerings. Towards the end of her husband's letter were the words, "Now dear, I will be able to send you some money immediately, as my employer is going to give me some in advance, because of our circumstances. Out of this, I wish you to pay our tithing." Eleanor was glad that Dewey too, had at last seen the light. Sinking to her knees in gratitude and humility, she gave thanks to One who never fails to keep His promises, for the great blessings they had received both spiritually and temporally, which filled her heart to overflowing.