Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1892 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN OF ALL NatTIoNns" MANNERS OF WORKING WOMEN: Every day you may see on our streets a large number of women, who go quietly and briskly to their different vocations. The majority are stenographers and clerks, though there is a slight sprinkling of dress makers, telephone exchange girls, compositors, and girls who work in book binderies, and printing offices. They are not brusque, masculine creatures as you might expect; on the contrary they wear bangs and ruffles and laces just as other women do. Some are pretty and some are plain; some plump, some thin, and so far as appearances go, they are like the rest of womenkind —N. V. D. TO AN UNKNOWN: You are melancholy; and you are brooding over your own distemper; and so aggtavating it. Neither prayer or meditation will cure it. The difficulty is that you are self-centered. Every self-centered person must be either selfconceited or melancholy.... You are making everything revolve about yourself. There is only one question: are you useful? No? Then become useful Set yourself, not to being happy, but to doing other people good. Forget yourself; think of others.... It is of small consequence whether you are happy or not. It is of much consequence whether you are of service to the world. Love is the cure for melancholy.: —Exchange THE CAPSTONE "Tis a joyous day for Israel, Lo! The Capstone has been laid; Saints and prophets, sires and sages, For this day have longed and prayed; See the mighty hosts assembled, Hear the hills and valleys ring, With the shouts and loud hosannas Which they raise to God their king —R. M. F. WOMAN'S WORK IN MEXICO: The scenery from Diaz to Juarez, some seventy-five miles, is similar to that from Deming to Diaz, an open level country of vast extent with mountains and hills in the distance. We can trace the windings of the Casas Grande river by the lofty cottonwood trees growing on its banks.. We now reach Colonia Dublan, a settlement of our people, located on the banks of the river. The houses are of lumber and adobe. The farms slope from the road to the river. Colonia Juarez is situated in a canon on the Piedras Verde river, which is lined with trees and runs lengthwise through the town. It is a thrifty, pretty little place, like an oasis in the desert; a number of handsome brick and concrete houses adorn the town —M. NURSES AND ACCOUCHEURS: On Thursday evening, April 29, 1892, Dr. Ellis R. Shipp's class in Obstetrics and Nursing met at her residence, to enjoy a few hours socially after the winter's close application to study and their recent examinations which were passed successfully. A number of intimate friends met with them, our beloved Sister, Zina D. H. Young, joining in the congratulations and timely counsels to the ladies just starting out upon their important labors. ~—News Note Page 296 VISITING in Salt Lake City recently, Mrs. Lenora S. Slaughter, executive secretary of the Miss America Pageant, stated that Colleen Kay Hutchins, Utah's Miss America, has brought more praise to the Pageant than has ever been expressed before. People are impressed by her wholesomeness, her religious and_ educational — background, her refraining from drinking and smoking. Religious magazines have written her up as a Latter-day Saint girl. As a "goodwill ambassador" for the United States, she has been on a South American tour and will soon go to Europe. MBE:. DAVID (Andrea Mead) } LAWRENCE, of Rutland, Vermont, nineteen years old, won the women's giant slalom ski race in the 1952 Winter Olympics at Norejfell, Norway. She is the second American woman in history to win an Olympic gold medal in skiing competition. BLMA MILOTTE and her husband Alfred, naturalist photographers, are in Nairobi, Africa, for one or possibly two years, to record for Walt Disney's True-Life Adventure sagas the most savage animal life there. They do not resort to firearms or other lethal weapons, but lense their quarry from jungle ambush and waterhole blinds.