New Year Greetings to Relief Society | Women Everywhere NCE again the cycle of time brings to us a new year with its promise ~ of new opportunities and experiences and with its rebirth of hope. It is good to face a new year filled with hope, faith, and dreams, to look forward to new opportunities and responsibilities, to anticipate untried undertakings and unexperienced events. It is good to face the new year with the composure and security that come from a firm, unwavering testimony of the gospel. It is good to face the new year fortified by the love, strength, and power that come from membership in a great and divinely inspired sisterhood which reaches out to the far corners of the earth and binds together in closest bonds of fellowship women of many lands. This new year the general board extends its sincere love to the more than 100,000 women throughout the world who comprise the Relief Society sisterhood. May the new year bring to each one the opportunities, privileges, and responsibilities that go into making a good life. We extend to you our deep appreciation for the contribution that each has made to the work of Relief Society during the past year. Your responsibilities have been heavy and unusual in nature and many of your tasks arduous. But with a diligence born of faith in the divinity of the work and with the spirit of loving devotion you have magnificently met each assignment, engraving on the history of Relief Society an enviable record of achievement for the year 1948. As we go forward into another year, may the accomplishments of the past year sustain us. May we realize that each duty we have successfully performed and each task we have mastered have left us better qualified to meet whatever lies ahead. As we go forward into another year may we continue strong in faith and in good works. May there emanate from Relief Society women everywhere a love for mankind. May there be a renewed determination to love the Lord and keep his commandments, for in this we most appropriately speak our gratitude for his manifold blessings unto us and we best equip ourselves to enjoy a happy and successful new year.
Affectionately,
Belle S. Spafford Marianne C. Sharp
General Presidency