artistic poem "Our Heritage," which won first prize in the 1942 Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest.
T.S. Roberts has many other poet prizes on his front pages, and of her poems in The Relief Society Magazine have been recognized as outstanding contributions to the literature of the latter-day Saints.
Mrs. Roberts summarizes her life thus briefly: "Born on a large ranch in a tiny house on stilts, born to nature and have loved it ever since; I never feel more at home than where weeds grow along a fence, and fruit lines the cellar she es, and potatoes, carrots, and beets are piled in a pit. I love mountains near and far. Attended the University of Utah and have been a school teacher. My hobbies are sewing, cooking, music, and writing. I love poetry and all forms of literature for their inward and outward contours of beauty, and have taught the literature lessons in Relief Society for many years. I have two daughters whom mention (not by name) in my book of poems, 'Blue Haws,' as yet unpublished."
Second Prize Poem
Another Lary Miranda Snow Walton
Within the gates of Bethlehem
Another Mary stands;
Her suffering children, scourged and shamed,
Cry out from alien lands.
Fain would she gather them again
To David's white-walled spires,
But heathen hordes have overrun
The city of their sires.
Pagan kings have mocked the throne,
Their evil flag unfurled,
While the children of the covenant
Are outcasts of the world.
Within bereaved Jerusalem
Another Mary knows
The two-fold pain of motherhood—
Her own, her children's woes.
She gave them life, to be destroyed,
Despised, reviled, and slain;
It is a bitter thing to birth
A child foredoomed to pain.
The voice of ancient prophecy
Is filled in her despair:
"Woe be to those in latter days
Who would a man-child bear."
Upon the hills of Calvary
Another Mary kneels,
She sees white crosses, row on row;
Each one assonant man feels.
The agony of death but once;
She pays the double price,
For man's intolerance to man
Has crucified her twice.
Miranda Snow Walton was born in the Bear River country of Wyoming, a daughter of Henry Brooks Snow and Anna Danielson Forbes. Writing poetry has, for many years, been a great joy to Mrs. Walton. In addition to the Latter-day Saint Church publications, her work has appeared in Railroad Magazine, the Utah Magazine, Our Army, The Vet, some thirty poetry magazines, and in many newspapers and anthologies, including Utah Sings. Mrs. Walton is the mother of a daughter Vivian (Mrs. Delbert Owens) and two sons, Jack and Claude Walton, who were of the fourth generation of one line and the fifth of another to serve their country in the armed forces. Mrs. Walton, now a resident of Salt Lake City, visits the Bear River country frequently and is interested in writing about this picturesque region.
The Relief Society Magazine readers will recall with pleasure Mrs. Walton's poem "Centennial Conversation" which was awarded the third prize in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest in 1946 and which was published in the Magazine in January 1947. Also in 1947 a poem of Mrs. Walton's received third honorable mention in the contest of the Poetry Society of Colorado.
Third Prize Poem
Infant Daughter of a Alice M. Burnett
If only they had waked me from that deep
And dreamless sleep,
And brought my baby daughter to my side,
If only I had held her once before she died,
And felt her precious head so warm, and gently pressed
Against my breast.
But no, they made me sleep,
And so I did not know
Until she had been buried deep
Beneath the snow.
They said that it was best,
That I was weak and needed rest
Before I learned that she was dead.
Today, when spring has bared the ground,
I slipped away, and came
Out to the family plot, alone,
And here I found
The small, white stone
Which bears no name.
The tiny, purple iris bloom around—
[I think she sent them to me as a sign—]
Contes; td year hag d
Previously Placed jn the t announce the Relief Society Short Story Contest.
Names of the award winners In the Most of the Stories entered in this Short story Contest which Was ancontest Were wel] Written, Many of NOunced in the June 1048 issue of them Tevealing Professiona] quality he Magaz % and which Closed j "anization and technique. September; 5> 1948 'S Contest was initiated to en- € first Prize of fifty dollars js Courage Latter-day aint women to awarded to telle Webb Mas, express themselyes In th field of Shipro kN. Mexico, for her Story fiction. © general board feels "The Hurrah' Nest," that the res ONse to th Opporty The second Ptize of forty dollars ity wil] Continue to Increase the lit. Is Awarded to Myrtle Dean, 10 Clary quality of Relief Socie North 7th East, Provo, Utah, for Magazine, and will aid © women er story " hey Die in the Harness." of the hurch j the development The third prize of thirty dollars Of their gifts in Creative Writing, 'S awarded to Mildred R, Stutz, he Relief ociet Magazine Pei! Phraim, h, for her story "Com. Has 4 "culation of nea Promise," wee With 4 short Sto Hirst Prize Story Annual Reliof Society Short Story Canes: The Hurrah's Nest Estelle Webb Thomas ESTELLE WEBB THOMAS
66 OW don't get to thinking we're rich, dear!" Dad warned, but Mother only gave her disarming little laugh and said, mildly, "It's all a matter of attitude. I can be rich with the same amount of money you can be poor with!"
"Another dangling preposition, Mother!" Linda pointed out.
Linda is majoring in English and watches for grammatical errors like Towser watches for rats. It's not what we say, that matters to her, but how we say it.
"T told you, dear, I'm not saying 'with which,' " Mother stated, firmly, "it's stilted!" But Dad was not to be deflected by Linda's red herring, for that's what it was. She was trying to change the subject because, to us children, the very foundations of the home seem to rock when Dad and Mother don't agree.
Now, don't get me wrong—my parents are tops, and lovely to each other. They practically never disagree except when their complexes conflict and, of course, they can't help that, for though both the poor dears have a complex, unfortunately, neither knows it, or would admit it if he did. Luckily, I understand all about such things since I started taking psychology under Dr. Ewing and can be a lot more tolerant than I once was.
Dad, you see, is not at all to blame for his. He inherited it from his New England ancestors, who, due to the hard country and conditions of those early days, grew to be what Mother delicately calls "close" about money. Dad's a darling, but honestly, his fear of poverty and dependence in his old age amounts to an obsession and makes things pretty complicated at times, though at heart he's the soul of generosity.
He asked now, sternly, "Don't you ever think of trying to leave the children anything?"
"Certainly, I do," Mother replied, airily, "memories!"
Page 13 14 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1949
"You'll find they can't eat memOries, or wear them, either!"
"But happy memories feed the soul," Mother persisted perversely.
"The way these kids wear out shoes, I have to think more of so-l-e-s than of s-o-ul-s," Dad growled, "and you'd better do the same!"
"What a low thought, Dad!' Maitland laughed, and got a withering glance in reply. If there's anything Dad hates worse than extravagance, it's puns.
OTHER'S complex, by the way, is cleanliness. She wages an endless war with dirt, which wouldn't be so bad, except that we're all recruits in her army, sometimes unwilling ones, especially Maitland who, being a normal boy of fourteen, is really in the enemy's camp. But, to get back to the present argument, which concerned Mother's pet plan to adopt a European family. Since Dad finally convinced her that at present he was able to support only one family, and if it was to be a European one, they'd have to put us children in an orphan asylum, Mother narrowed down her project to providing our foreign friends with a beautiful Christmas.
It was unfortunate that the time for sending the boxes overseas should also be the date for the Youth Convention, because Linda had set her heart on going and that made two big expenses at the same time. We were all languishing in the poor house at the mercy of heartless strangers before she had Dad talked over. But I noticed he had as much fun as any of us filling the Christmas boxes with good things to eat and wear that we knew would be real luxuries over there.
But after they were posted and Linda gone, Mother seemed to sort of droop. I found her in our room one day when I came from school, half-heartedly straightening the closet.
"Why, Mother," "Tll do our room." But she shook her head. "It was Linda left it looking like a Hurrah's nest. I thought I'd just pick up a bit before you got home." A disordered room always looks like a Hurrah's nest to Mother. Dad says it's the silliest expression in the language and tries to break her of using it, but Mother declares it describes just what she means and won't give it up.
I was really worried when she found the zipper of Linda's formal bag open and a cricket inside. She didn't even scold, just wrapped the cricket in a paper handkerchief and dropped it in the wastebasket and quietly zipped up the bag.
"What's the matter?" I burst out finally, "you look like three rainy days!"
"It's Christmas," Mother confessed dolefully, sitting down beside me on my bed. "No one to plan for but ourselves. But, of course, after sending all those boxes."
"You mean nobody's coming, not even Aunt Mary?"
"Well, dear, it's nobody's fault but my own, after all, those boxes were expensive and Linda's trip— and I promised Daddy...." Mother looked out the window and blinked rapidly several times. "Aunt Mary will understand."
I protested, THE HURRAH'S NEST Mother's Aunt Mary. Is her nearest living relative and she not only spends every Christmas with us, but we send her the round trip ticket as well.
"But isn't Dad asking Cousin Sally and the children?"
"No. That's why I can't have Aunt Mary. It means a lot to Daddy to have Sally's family here."
AFTER Mother left I sat on doing some mental juggling with my Christmas money.
But though I cut all gifts to the bone, I still couldn't manage Aunt Mary's ticket with that. I was forced to remember the cold cream jar full of coins I'd been saving for a new formal for the Christmas dance. Sadly, I kissed the dream goodbye. It was to have been a black, slinky affair, and Mother wouldn't have let me wear it, anyway, and it wouldn't be Christmas without Aunt Mary to Mother. That would be my gift to her. It was hard to keep it a secret when I saw Mother listlessly cutting the fruitcake recipe in half and deciding against mince pies, since we don't care specially for them, though Sally's gang can eat a dozen. And the bluer she got about Christmas, the fussier Mother got about keeping everything spic and span. She even said it was probably a good thing we were having no one for Christmas, company made such a mess. That was the day she told Dad his den looked like a Hurrah's nest.
"Now look here, my good woman," Dad protested, "that mysterious creature has nested in every room in the house, except mine, but I swear it's never been there!" I wouldn't know a Hurrah if I'd met it on the street!"
Mother wasn't amused. "I often wonder what you'd do if I'd die?" she said, in a martyred tone. "We'd give you the most wonderful send-off a woman ever had!"
Dad gazed dreamily out the window. "Flowers banked to the ceiling— sermon by."
"You don't have to have so much fun planning it!" Mother snapped, "and I don't mean the funeral, as you well know. I'd be satisfied with a few less flowers and the assurance you all had all your buttons!"
"That's the girl!" Dad patted her shoulder, which she says always makes her feel like a horse.
"I think you'd better decide to stay with us till we get out of the helpless stage!" "Which will be forever," Mother muttered, but she looked mollified. This was an old story to us children, but we were always relieved when Dad had Mother kidded out of that particular mood. We noticed that if he joined enthusiastically in her talk about dying, the idea seemed to lose some of its charm.
But Mother was not the only one lacking the Christmas spirit. Dad wasn't his usual jovial self and even Maitland said suddenly one day while we were washing dishes, "Gee, everything seems tough! Got any money, Missy?"
Missy—that's me. Isn't it revolting? Maitland got rid of "Matey" by threatening to run away from home unless we called him his real name, but my real name is Artemesia. We inherited it, along with the Hurrah's nest, from Great-grandmother Wrenn, so you see why I stick to Missy.
Seemed un and even dig h shopping alone, ly was a different atmosphere in our house than any other Christmas. No orgies of cooking, no claves as Christmas) And happy guests, no preparations at all: just, in a word, nothing! I was happy because for the first time, ife, I Was this ten-year-old girl's own hunt work.
"A very merry bedtime story," Maitland observed, "Do you over old Mr. You've spoiled dusk didn't you see dinner?"
A little figure seemed to be emerging out of the alley, Mother's own, I shouted "M."
Mother's old enough to know the world's full of such happy situations THE HURRAH'S NEST and they're not all in Europe!" Then she burst into tears and dashed blindly from the room. You can imagine the tension there was when I didn't even ask Dad about the tree. Ever since Linda was big enough to sit in the car seat beside him, Dad has made a ceremony of taking us children to the forest for the Christmas tree. It was the biggest thrill of all, I think. Last year Linda had a date and only Maitland and I went with Dad, but it was still fun.
Well, it's a sign of retarded mentality to hang onto childish practices, so I tried not to care when Dad didn't mention the tree this year. We really didn't need it for our grown-up gifts.
The day before Christmas was cold and blowy and snowy, ideal weather if one had the Christmas spirit, but pretty depressing under the circumstances. Well, it couldn't help but cheer us up a little when Aunt Mary arrived. I wondered how I could sneak out the car to meet her, and if she'd ride with me when I did. Aunt Mary, no one under thirty should drive a car, and a woman never! It would never occur to her to take a taxi, however, so I had to try.
But when I slipped out to the garage, there was Dad, just driving out. He looked startled and muttered that he had an errand downtown.
"May I go, Dad? I have one, too?" I could see I wasn't welcome, but climbed in anyway. This was chummy to what it would be when he found what my errand was.
Strangely enough, he drove straight to the bus station and seemed not at all astonished when Aunt Mary, tiny and frail, waved gaily from the platform. Dad picked her up in a big bear hug as he always does, and carried her across the snow to the car. Aunt Mary kissed me warmly, but I thought she gave me an odd glance as we drove off.
There was no chance for explanations between Dad and me, and I was a little disappointed that though Mother was delighted to see Aunt Mary, she didn't look surprised enough. Of course she couldn't let Aunt Mary see she was not expected.
It began to seem a little more festive, with the two of them chattering in the kitchen while Mother prepared the Christmas Eve supper. "Tell me all about everybody!" I heard her say. Aunt Mary retorted, "Oh, I've got a lot of news, but first you tell me why I got three tickets? You couldn't have been that anxious to see me!"
Mother didn't have to answer, for at that moment, Dad, who had slipped away again, threw open the front door, and with a lot of laughter and shouting and feet stamping, Sally and her four rowdy youngsters rushed in. If Mother was surprised, they didn't know it, for her welcome was as heart-warming as ever.
I took the dishes off again, and put another leaf in the dining table, and Mother beat up another batch of biscuits and did some juggling with cans and jars. Meanwhile Dad winked at Maitland and they went out and returned, presently, with the biggest and prettiest tree we had ever had. Sometime after Dad had sent for Sally, he and Maitland had got that tree.
I felt a small pang that I had been left out, then remembered RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE_January 1949 about being retarded, and put it out of my mind.
Now it seemed they weren't expected, like Christmas guests! "We'll all turn up after supper," said S if they were visitors. M C were finally sitting in two or three minutes, as T. Watson half-heartedly suggested. He'd take his invitation on inda, who had now said she'd spent her entire Christmas fund on "There's a show just bursting h | n With kids." Th d) was deter said, still more loudly, "Why, it's - u stopping here!" $4 sheet, please me up with the idea they come the chj © said rapidly and ind, and € we really felt flashy, too. I never knew before that Sally was a mimic and could take off all the prominent radio performers, nor that Mother and Dad had sung duets when they were young until Aunt Mary insisted they do it again. Good, too. Linda and I played the two-handed pieces we thought we had outgrown, and Maitland recited, "Woodman, Spare That Tree!" We even rolled back the rugs and danced on Mother's highly polished floor. But the star performer was Rumplestiltskin. He told the most fascinating stories of Christmases in Denmark and his early life there and his travels and experiences since. Having an appreciative audience went to the lonely old fellow's head, and his stories got better and better. We were all surprised when the gray winter dawn broke up the party and the children trooped in to see the tree and get their gifts. In the ensuing hubbub, no one noticed that none of us received anything from the rest of the family; we had all given our gifts to the guests. Poor Maitland had spent his all on a red woolen muffler for Mr. Jacobson, but no gift ever brought greater joy. Then the children must be washed and fed and got off to church, and the big Christmas dinner must be prepared. All the grownups took a hand at this, but it was Rumplestiltskin who did the most, and with wonderful results, for it seemed that once in his checkered career, he had been a chef. It was early dusk of Christmas night when we told him, the last guest, goodbye. Aunt Mary, who was not leaving, had gone to bed, worn out with excitement. After Rumplestiltskin had bowed himself out, still thanking us all, Dad put his arm around Mother. "Well, you had your Christmas, after all! Satisfied?" Mother sighed happily, "Oh, it was wonderful! But I'm afraid it was pretty expensive," she added, in a small voice. "Undoubtedly!" Dad grinned, "and what's more, the whole place looks like a Hurrah's nest!" "Who cares?" said Mother.
Many others. People and their character portrayal. Japanese prison camp in 1942. Estelle Webb Thomas, whose writings have appeared in the various Church magazines for many years, was awarded the M. I. A. Centennial Prize for her story "Eddie Had a Sweet Tooth." Stories, poems, and articles in a number of national periodicals, including Common Ground, The American Weekly, Woman's World, Story Parade, Jack and Jill, Playmate, the D. C. Cook Company religious publications, and Her work reveals a broad and sympathetic understanding of problems, as well as a unique craftsmanship and realistic portrayal of characters. Relief Society Magazine readers will recall with pleasure her many fine contributions, particularly her outstanding story "Call It a Day" (July 1947). Her article "Latter-day Saint Pioneers in New Mexico" (April 1947) was of exceptional interest and beautifully composed. Mr. Thomas is in Navajo Service at Shiprock, New Mexico, and the Thomases are the parents of three children: Wayne, Ted, and Kathleen. Ted is attending school in Maryland, and Kathleen is at Brigham Young University.
Accomplishment of which I am vaingloriously proud is my children." Mrs. Thomas has published stories, poems, and articles in a number of national periodicals, including Common Ground, The American Weekly, Woman's World, Story Parade, Jack and Jill, Playmate, the D. C. Cook Company religious publications, and Her work reveals a broad and sympathetic understanding of problems, as well as a unique craftsmanship and realistic portrayal of characters.
The Relief Society Magazine readers will recall with pleasure her many fine contributions, particularly her outstanding story "Call It a Day" (July 1947). Her article "Latter-day Saint Pioneers in New Mexico" (April 1947) was of exceptional interest and beautifully composed. Mr. Thomas is in Navajo Service at Shiprock, New Mexico, and the Thomases are the parents of three children: Wayne, Ted, and Kathleen. Ted is attending school in Maryland, and Kathleen is at Brigham Young University.
With the election of President Belle S. Spafford to the office of third vicepresident of the National Council of Women of the United States, at the biennial meeting of the Council held in New York City on November 10th, 1948, recognition has again come to the women of the Church and to the great Relief Society organization over which Sister Spafford now presides. She will assume this added responsibility with capacity and with dignity. Wise in counsel, frank and sincere, friendly, tolerant, and with rich organizational experience, Sister Spafford will be warmly welcomed into the deliberations of the Council's board of directors.
It is an interesting experience, and one greatly to be desired, to meet intimately with the strong leadership of the women's organizations from all parts of the United States—women of integrity, of high ideals, and great moral strength, all with the common purpose of improving the status of women the world over. From the time of President Zina D. H. Young, under whose administration the Relief Society joined the National Council of Women, to the present day, women representing the membership of the Relief Society have been active in Council affairs, serving as officers and as members of the executive committee of the board of directors and also as members of the standing committees of the Council. Their influence has been salutary and many close friendships have been developed.
Today the Relief Society and its officers and representatives are held in the highest esteem. On behalf of the women of the Relief Society in all lands we extend congratulations to President Spafford and wish for her success and satisfaction in this assignment.
The National Council of Women is a voluntary association of self-governing national organizations through which is made possible an interchange of ideas, experiences, and factual information on a nation-wide scale. It was founded in the year 1888 and at this first meeting, the Relief Society was represented by Emily S. Richards. Three years later, at the first triennial meeting of the Council, with the advice of President Wilford Woodruff, the Relief Society became a charter member, and still continues as a member, and through membership in the National Council, enjoys participation in the affairs of the International Council of Women which is composed of National Councils from many countries. The Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association is also a charter member of the Council.
THE objects and purposes of the Council were stated in the preamble of its constitution adopted at the time of its organization, and still remain the basis of the program of the Council: We, women of the United States, sincerely believing that the best good of our homes and nation will be advanced by our own greater unity of thought, sympathy and purpose, and that an organized movement will best conserve the highest good of the family and State, do hereby band ourselves together in a confederation of workers committed to the overthrow of all forms of ignorance and injustice, and to the application of the Golden Rule in society, custom and law. The National Council does not itself sponsor activities of a controversial nature, but it does supply data to its members regarding the activities of other members. No member can, in any case, be committed to any cause or project by Council action except by its own vote.
The Relief Society is entitled to twenty-five voting delegates at all conference sessions of the Council.
21 There is a high note of spirituality running through all the undertakings of the Council. This is what one would expect when women of every creed, nationality and color, and from every walk of life meet together with a common purpose. It is indeed a sisterhood and is often so referred to by the speakers of the convention.
The words of Baroness Pol Boel of Brussels (President of the International Council of Women during the last World War) are illustrative of this sentiment:
As a citizen of her nation, woman's place is marked today beside the man, her brothers... She has to accomplish her task with the man beside her. As citizens of the world, she has not yet been able to give the measure of her possibilities, she has not yet realized the young forces that are in her.
As mother, she creates life. More than man, she has the duty to defend this life which she has given and of which she is the guardian...
Let us go forward, sisters, in this new crusade for the respect of human rights in a free world where, with the help of God, more justice and more love shall reign.
If ARTIST Gene Romolo
On wings of the wind, an artist came flying
From heights of the north, and through the night,
He silently worked, energetically plying
His fine-tempered tools till the advent of light.
With feathery fronds, he etched every pane,
With spangles like stardust, he covered the trees.
He built, from the brook, a white, winding lane,
And formed diamond drops from the breath of a breeze.
Even the lowliest shrubs were embossed
With the fragile beauty of art by the Frost.
Joanna Margery S. Stewart
VERYONE left at last, the relatives, the neighbors, the acquaintances.
They came to Joanna and kissed her and pressed her hand, murmuring over and over,
"Be sure to let us know if we can help. Be sure, now."
Joanna nodded her bent head and repeated clumsily,
"It was right nice of you to come... Right nice of you. Please let you know.
We'll get along. We'll get along some way."
The friends from Brigham City were the last to go. They had known her all her life.
"You better come back," they said.
"We can help you there.... Big city like this is no place for a widow with a family."
Joanna lifted her swollen face to them. She looked past the sunbrowned faces of the men
and saw again the hills of her home, the pleasant orchards of her childhood,
the ordered fields, the roads, the little rivers that had known her bare, quick feet.
She looked at the women's faces and saw the pity there. She saw her history in their compassionate eyes.
Joanna, young and impetuous, not willing to stay like other girls in the small, peaceful town,
but running off to the city, to nothing better than waiting on table jobs and to marrying a man
her folks had never met. Of whom no one approved.
Too gay and quick talking, Joanna's man, David, too many dreams for making money,
but not enough money from any of his jobs to pay for doctor bills when his and Joanna's four babies came along.
Joanna's folks had paid for them.
Joanna's folks had mortgaged their little house and their farm to pay for this and that which
Joanna and her small brood had needed, until death had folded their stubborn, toil-hard hands and they could help no more.
The relatives would talk about David, Joanna knew, on the swift tide back to Brigham City.
They would comment on his death. Typical of him, they would say, speeding down a mountain road
in a car that should have been in a junk yard long ago...
Typical to have left no insurance, no paid house that a widow might use as a fortress.
Joanna went with the Brigham City people to the door.
Their disapproval made no difference in their love for her. They wept over her,
kissed her again and again. They bent and hugged the children, standing mute and big-eyed
upon the battered porch.
"You come up to the farm," they said to Penelope.
"We'll fatten you up."
PENNY stood stiffly in their arms, a thin, tall child, with long, black hair and her father's beautiful,
winging brows. David, no taller than Penny though two years older, endured their caresses
with the stoic dignity of ten.
Joanna saw how bleak his brown eyes looked without the laughter that always lived in them.
Sally, four, and Michael, two, took hugs and kisses as a matter of course,
more interested in the wedges of cake in their grimy hands.
They waved cheerfully to the departing guests.
They turned to their mother. Sally held up her hand.
"Bite?"
Obediently, Joanna took a bite, and could not swallow it.
Her throat was dry and swollen, and fear was a lump she could not dislodge.
The hose was trickling a thin stream on the small, discouraged lawn.
Joanna knelt and lifted it and drank. She rose and dusted off the hem of her one good dress,
navy blue crepe, with a white lace jabot. She went slowly down the cracked cement walk to the street.
The street was not paved, only graveled. Now the gravel was almost hidden under
the golden drift of cottonwood leaves from the trees that lined the street.
The houses on either side were shabby and tumbled, red brick, most of them,
with porches long in need of paint and with sagging, broken steps.
Joanna turned and looked at her own house. It was red brick, like the others.
The door, behind the battered screen, was flanked by two square windows.
The window on the right was cracked, brown sticking paper following its course.
She went up the path, up the stairs, into the house.
She looked around the little sitting room, with its coal heater in the corner, the leatherette sofa along one wall, the chair that matched it standing against the opposite wall. Her treadle sewing machine stood under the starched lace of the curtains, mending spilling out of the reed basket. She looked at the threadbare rug and the straight back chairs as if she were taking inventory. 'There were two pictures on the stained brown walls. One was "The Angelus." She had cut it out of a magazine and put it in an old frame. The other was also a magazine print, "Sunflowers" by Van Gogh. Joanna stared at it, dazedly, remembering how she had always loved the fierce, wild beauty of the sunflowers. She had imagined the mad artist plunging them violently into the squat vase. Today they seemed garish. She went past the picture into the kitchen. The table was loaded with cakes and pies and covered dishes from the hands of kind neighbors. The kitchen range sent out a cheery warmth. She opened the lid and poured more coal from the bucket that stood on a newspaper. She looked at the linoleum, no one but herself knew that under the gay rag rugs the pattern was worn through to the boards. The kitchen chairs stood neatly against the green painted walls, Sally's battered doll on one of the gingham cushions. Joanna straightened the gaily embroidered dish towels on their rack. She went swiftly through the children's bedroom. 'There were only the two beds, covered with the quilts she had made from scraps her mother had sent her. She opened the door to the bathroom that would be icy cold all winter and closed it again. She went to the bedroom she had shared with David. She touched the wooden footboard, her hands dragging. She smoothed the crocheted spread. She sat for a moment in the small rocking chair. "It was most sweet to look upon? Love or me, Joanna?" she whispered. He had snatched it from him on his return. She took it back to her dresser. She straightened and went over to the soup kitchen on winter mornings. There was a woman on the next street who had put her children in an orphanage while she had called it beautiful, finding pleasure in slaving for meager wages downtown. Depression and the spectre of hunger drove people from their homes, and she had told her, "You will always be lovely, Joanna." Time would not destroy his model—You are lovely, Joanne." She thus describes it: "I was furnished a trowel and mallet, and, assisted by a Master Mason, and surrounded by an assemblage of people, I had the honour of laying the cornerstone of the first Relief Society building erected in this dispensation. SALT LAKE STAKE: held in the Assembly Hall in the Fourteenth Ward, "We have more reason to be thankful to God than any people put we should be grateful that we are; let us read and pray for dissension and wrath. We are enjoying peace and plenty, and let us be charitable and merciful one to another, and prepared for famine, and let us be prepared for the future."