Sixty Years Ago and January 15, 1889: "Woman's Exponent, January 15, 1889" From the Woman's Voice of Zion and the Rights of Women in Nations. "Each morning is a festival to keep,"—H. H. E. T. ANNIVERSARY: On the 29th of December | 1889, Sister Kimball has marked the seventieth anniversary as an markable woman, and at the present writing she is still active as she was at forty. Sister Kimball has been called the first woman to lay the cornerstone of the Relief Society building in this dispensation. She thus describes it: "I was furnished a trowel and mallet, and, assisted by a Master Mason, and surrounded by an assemblage of people, I had the honour of laying the cornerstone of the first Relief Society building erected in this dispensation." By-and-by Be quiet, restless heart! The long light lies In gleams of lingering sunshine on the hills; The home-bound swallow, twittering as he tests, Makes silence seem more still—Primitive Methodist Page 26 BY A GROUP OF RELIEF SOCIETY WOMEN FROM ESSEX COUNTY, NEW JERSEY, WITH TRUE LATTER-DAY SAINT thrift in their bones, saved vegetable crops from being plowed under by going out to farms and picking the vegetables for canning purposes. Pauline Thomander, President of the East Orange Relief Society, read in a newspaper that the crops would be plowed under, as a protest against low market prices, and immediately went into action. A local newspaper carried a picture of Mrs. Thomander and Mrs. (Constance) Hyde, a class leader in the same organization, happily at work. Other Latter-day Saint women from Montclair and the Oranges continued the work the following day. BOARD President Truman's train, during his recent campaigning tour, was a handsome young woman from Copenhagen, Adelheid Nielson, who was reporting for a Danish newspaper. AZEL BRANNON of Mississippi, at thirty-four, is publisher, owner, and editor of two newspapers in her State. She has won national press prizes. ALL OF FINLAND'S LIBRARIES WILL BE DIRECTED BY A WOMAN, Filia S. Wirla, who has been studying and traveling in the United States. Mrs.