Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Witla says many libraries were destroyed during the war. She expressed Finland's gratitude to the United States for gifts to her country to help rebuild its stock. She was amazed at the library facilities in this country. "TAKING PART IN PLAYS PRESENTED BY THE MUTUAL IMPROVEMENT ASSOCIATIONS HELPED Marilyn Robinson of Ogden, Utah, to scale the talent ladder which was instrumental in her winning out in one of the talent contests held in Atlantic City in August. "Miss Utah" of 1947, Miss Robinson was one of the finalists for the crown of "Miss America," and won a first place in dramatics in the talent contests. She sings, dances, is an expert swimmer and diver, and has won unusual acclaim for playing leading roles in University of Utah dramatic presentations. Besides all this, her scholastic rating is exceptionally high. Interested as she is in dramatics—and talented—she expects to marry and hopes to have a family. CENSUS officials believe that by 1950 there will be sixty per cent more women between the ages of forty-five and sixty-four employed than there were in 1940—an increase of one and one-half million. The best assets for job hunters in this age bracket are courage and good health. Page 27 EDITORIAL SO VOL. 36 JANUARY 1949 Renascence/Rejuvenation of hope and expectancy seems to herald the arrival of each new year, and as the echo of the pealing of the bells sounds there is born in the heart the echo of a dream of better things to come.
A review of the sorrows, disappointments, and failings of a passing year inspires a fervent prayer for greater strength to overcome and achieve in the oncoming year. A woman may quickly judge for herself the success she has attained in keeping her home clean and attractive, but it may be difficult for her to judge her success in enriching the intellectual and spiritual growth of her family. She may rather easily evaluate her obedience to certain definite commandments—the payment of tithes and offerings, observance of the Word of Wisdom, but be less sure. Of her response to that second great commandment—to love her neighbor as herself. Often it would seem easier to sacrifice than to refrain from a malicious tale or defamation of a character; easier to forego certain foods than heed the call of the despairing. And yet one's life here foreshadows one's life in the hereafter. Whatever degree of intelligence one attains to in this life will rise with one in the resurrection. One's character, one's desires, and one's appetites do not change with the change from mortality to immortality. As Alma explained to one of his sons many centuries ago: Do not suppose because it has been spoken concerning restoration, that ye shall be restored from sin to righteousness.... Restoration is to bring back again evil for evil, or carnal for carnal, or devilish for devilish—good for that which is good; righteousness for that which is righteous; just for that which is just; 'merciful for that which is merciful. (Alma 41:10, 13). To live each day of the coming year so that goodness, righteousness, justice, and mercy will be restored at the time of restoration is the great goal to seek. Only the present moment need ever be lived. By eschewing temptation now and living in righteousness now, any Latter-day Saint may begin to build, through the coming year, a celestial pattern into which she will fit as the Great Designer intends. No matter how far distant the goal may appear from a review of one's actions during 1948, let a rejuvenation of faith and hope surge in the heart, and a resolution be taken to live in the year 1949 so as to rise far above the valleys of doubt and darkness of this present world to eventually achieve eternal life in the highest kingdom of glory. M. C. S. D 2 Meeting Se February Q ALTHOUGH Tuesday has been outlined for February, their meetings will be held on days in Societies which are holidays, a social science lesson since some Relief Society meeting other than Tuesday. It is February 22, 1949, and the social science lesson will be held together on March 22. Relief Society Assigned Evening Meeting of Fast Sunday in March 'THE Sunday night meeting to be held on Fast Day in March 1949, has been assigned by the First Presidency for use by the Relief Society.