[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 38 | Category: Lesson | Title: Optional Lessons in Lieu of Social Science: The Presidency of John Taylor Elder T. Edgar Lyon]
THEN  CAME  CHRISTMAS 
811 
she  did  not  notice  that  Httle  Chariey 
was  rummaging  in  the  workbox  un- 
til he  called,  ''Mother,  look,  what 
made  this  little  straight  crack  in  the 
end  of  your  workbox?" 
l^OT  getting  an  immeciiate  reply, 
he  stuck  an  inquiring  fingernail 
into  the  crack.  The  crack  widened  a 
little.  Again  he  pried  and  could  see 
that  the  whole  end  could  be  raised 
about  an  inch  above  the  level  of 
the  box.  Just  then  his  mother 
turned  to  investigate  his  silence  and 
saw  what  had  happened.  With  a 
cry  she  picked  up  the  workbox. 
"Oh,  Charley,  you  have  broken 
my  box.    How  ever  did  you  do  it?" 
She  started  toward  her  husband 
with  it,  saying,  ''Just  look,  Charles, 
the  boy  has  broken  my  mother's 
workbox.  Do  you  think  that  you 
could  mend  it?" 
In  handing  it  to  him  the  box 
tipped,  and  before  their  astonished 
eyes,  out  fell— no,  not  buttons  nor 
thread,  but  five  sovereigns/ 
"Well,  bless  my  soul,"  exclaimed 
Charles,  "where  did  they  come  from, 
five  sovereigns,  worth  five  dollars 
apiece?" 
"Out  of  the  box  somewhere,"  said 
Abbie  excitedly,  "but  just  where  is 
a  mystery  to  me." 
Charles  took  the  box,  examined 
it  a  minute  or  two,  then  cried  out, 
"Look  here,  Abbie,  the  mystery  is 
solved.  The  box  has  a  double  bot- 
tom and  the  end  is  made  so  that  it 
can  be  pulled  up.  The  small  slit 
in  the  end  of  the  box  was  put  there 
to  use  just  as  Charley  used  it  to  pull 
up  the  end  so  that  valuables  or 
money  could  be  hidden  in  the  space 
between  the  false  and  real  bottoms 
of  the  box.  This  dry  Dixie  climate 
has  warped  the  box  so  that  this 
small  slit  widened  and  became  vis- 
ible to  Charley's  sharp  eyes,  thank 
goodness!" 
"Thank  goodness!  Was  ever 
money  more  welcome?  Now  we 
can  all  have  new  shoes  for  Christ- 
mas, and  maybe  something  else  be- 
sides," said  Abbie  joyfully.  "And 
it's  going  to  seem  like  Christmas 
after  all!" 
Presently,  Charles,  who  had  been 
looking  thoughtfully  at  the  box, 
asked,  "Abbie,  what  do  you  know 
about  the  history  of  this  workbox?" 
"Only  this,"  replied  Abbie,  "my 
aunt  gave  it  to  my  mother  years 
ago  when  she  was  just  a  girl  back 
in  Nova  Scotia.  When  mother 
died  on  the  plains  coming  to  the 
Valley,  my  aunt  asked  father  to  let 
her  have  the  box  as  a  keepsake. 
Father  gave  it  to  her  and  she  kept 
it  until  she  died  a  year  or  two  after 
we  came  to  Dixie,  then  Uncle  Rob- 
ert gave  it  to  me.  But  how  and 
when  the  money  was  put  in  there 
I  haven't  the  slightest  idea." 
"It  would  be  interesting  to  know 
how  the  money  got  into  the  box," 
said  Charles,  "but  not  nearly  so  in- 
teresting as  the  fact  that  it  got  out." 
A  week  later  Abbie  Walker  again 
stood  in  the  doorway  of  her  small 
adobe  home,  her  husband  Charles 
beside  her.  Together  they  looked 
over  the  sunny  landscape  before 
them.  It  was  Christmas  morning 
and  there  was  a  frosty  tang  in  the 
air,  but  the  sun  shone  from  a  sky 
as  clear  and  blue  as  spring.  The 
children,  happy  in  new  shoes  and 
mittens,  and  the  proud  possessors 
of  china  mugs  filled  with  "store" 
candy,  were  playing  in  the  yard.  Ab- 
bie watched  them,  smiling  happily. 
Presently  she  looked  up  at  her  hus- 
band and  said,  "My,  Fm  glad  it 
isn't  snowing.  It  would  just  ruin 
our  new  shoes."

Sixtiji    LJears  Kyigo 
Excerpts  from  the  Woman's  Exponent,  December  i  and  December  15,  1888 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
CHRISTMAS:  Ah,  me!  It  is  Christmas  time,  merry  and  joyous.  What  sweet 
recollections  are  recalled  to  mind  on  this  happy  occasion.  Old  folks  and  young  join 
in  gay  pastimes,  and  it  is  not  only  a  season  of  rejoicing,  but  of  refreshing,  bodily  and 
mentally.  For  a  few  hours,  at  least,  peace  is  the  sentiment  of  all  honest  hearts,  and 
harshness  and  ingratitude  are  banished. — Aunt  Em. 
UINTAH  STAKE:  Minutes  of  the  second  conference  of  the  Relief  Society  of 
the  Uintah  Stake  of  Zion,  which  convened  in  the  Ashley  meeting  house,  Sept.  2nd, 
1888,  Prest.  Sarah  Pope  presiding.  "I  am  pleased  to  be  with  my  sisters  here  to-day; 
it  does  me  good  to  see  everybody  looking  so  comfortable  and  so  well  clothed.  Thirty 
years  ago  the  people  in  Utah  did  not  have  as  much  as  they  have  to-day;  if  we  had  a 
homemade  dress  on  we  were  just  as  happy  and  thankful  as  we  are  to-day,  and  perhaps 
more  so,  because  it  was  harder  to  get  it;  to-day  there  is  plenty  of  everything  in  our  midst, 
but  do  we  appreciate  these  blessings?  If  not  we  should." — ^Ada  Longhurst,  Secretary 
CHRISTMAS  HYMN 
Ring  out,  glad  bells,  your  sweetest  chimes! 
Ring  out  the  glad  refrain! 
Peace  be  on  earth,  good  will  to  man. 
Ring  out,  ring  out  again! 
Peal  forth,  sweet  bells,  in  midnight  hour, 
Good  will,  good  will  to  man! 
Hosannah  to  the  "King  of  kings," 
Amen,  amen,  amen. 
C.L.W. 
THE  CHILDREN'S  CHRISTMAS:  All  the  children  arc  on  tiptoe  with  expec- 
tancy just  before  Christmas  time.  What  would  Christmas  be  in  fact  if  it  were  not  for 
the  children?  It  seems  as  though  Christmas  was  CHILDREN'S  DAY  and  so  it  ought 
to  be,  for  it  is  celebrated  in  honor  of  the  most  royal  Babe  that  was  ever  born  upon 
the  earth,  our  blessed  Savior,  whose  coming  was  heralded  by  hosts  of  angels  singing 
and  a  new  star  arose  in  the  east,  and  there  was  great  rejoicing  in  heaven  as  well  as  upon 
the  earth,  when  the  heavenly  choirs  joined  in  the  anthem  that  ushered  in  the  new  born 
king. — Aunt  Em. 
A  LAMENT 
O,  the  sweet  yesterdays  fled  from  the  heart, 
Have  they  a  morrow? — 
Here  we  stood,  ere  we  parted  so  close  side  by  side; 
Two  lives  that  thus  part  are  as  ships  that  divide. 
When  moment  on  moment  there  rushes  between 
The  one  and  the  other,  a  sea; — 
Oh,  never  can  fall  from  the  days  that  have  been 
A  gleam  on  the  years  that  shall  be! 
— Lyttson  . 
Page  812

Hamona.  W.  Cannon 
piMMA  LUCY  GATES,  wife  of 
Elder  Albert  E.  Bowen  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  grand- 
daughter of  President  Brigham 
Young,  was  signally  honored  by  the 
citizens  of  Utah  and  outstanding 
musical  friends  when  more  than 
2,000  music  lovers  gathered  at  a 
testimonial  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
Temple  Square,  October  25,  1948. 
A  specially  selected  chorus  and 
forty  members  of  the  Utah 
Symphony  opened  the  program 
with  Bach's  "Magnificat,"  the  work 
in  which  Mrs.  Bowen  made  her 
debut  in  Berlin  in  1900.  It  was  the 
audience  itself  which  ''commanded" 
the  once  great  star  of  European  and 
American  concert  and  opera  stages 
to  close  the  testimonial  with  the 
singing  of  the  role  of  Violetta  in  the 
"denunciation"  scene  from  the 
third  act  of  Verdi's  "La  Traviata" 
which  had  just  been  presented  as 
the  closing  selection  with  many 
former  students  of  Mrs.  Bowen 
singing  as  soloists  and  members  of 
the  chorus.  An  appreciative  and 
well-earned  tribute  which  touched 
the  hearts  of  the  audience  was  paid 
Mrs.  Bowen  by  her  accomplished 
friend  Becky  Almond.  The  re- 
sponse by  Mrs.  Bowen  was  in  per- 
fect taste.  The  entire  proceeds  of 
the  testimonial  were  given  to  the 
Utah  Symphony  fund. 
TN  St.  George,  Utah,  a  drugstore 
is  owned  and  operated  entirely 
by  women. 
lUST  off  the  press  is  a  book  of 
^  poems,  beautifully  bound  in  ma- 
roon and  gold,  titled  Wayside 
Gatheiing.  The  author  is  Grace  M. 
Candland,  well-known  Utah  poet, 
whose  work  has  frequently  appeared 
in  Church  magazines. 
TN  little  stone  houses  on  a  fifty- 
five  acre  reservation  in  central 
Arizona  live  eight  Indian  families 
who  constitute  the  Yavapai  tribe. 
They  are  governed  by  Viola  Jimulla, 
sixty-seven  years  old,  the  only  woman 
in  the  United  States  who  rules  an 
Indian  tribe.  However,  a  three-man 
council  can  outvote  her. 
IN  Bristol,  England,  at  a  Methodist 
conference,  women  speakers  op- 
posed   a    resolution    that    women 
should  be  accepted  as  ministers. 
lyiARVA  BANKS  LINDSAY  of 
Salt  Lake  City  has  been  ap- 
pointed to  a  national  post  in  the 
field  of  education.  She  will  serve 
on  the  national  committee  on  teach- 
er preparation  and  professional 
standards  of  the  National  Education 
Association,  and  will  live  in  Wash- 
ington, D.  C,  during  her  three-year 
term  of  service. 
Page  813

EDITORIAL 
VOL  35 
DECEMBER  1948 
NO.  12 
of  he  uieavens   ^Jjeclare  the  (^lorii 
The  heavens  declare  the  glory  of  God;  and  the  firmament  sheweth  his  handywork 
(Psalm  19:1). 
lATHEN  the  seasons  are  fulfilled 
and  Christmas  comes  again, 
we  think  of  the  story  of  the  Wise 
Men  of  the  East  and  the  sign  in  the 
heavens  that  guided  them  across  the 
mountains  and  the  deserts  to  the 
manger  at  Bethlehem.  Christmas  is 
truly  a  time  for  considering  the  stars 
and  all  the  ''handywork"  of  God. 
For  centuries  the  stars  have  been 
to  the  earthbound  a  symbol  of  that 
which  endures  in  beauty  and  se- 
renity. Today,  in  the  midst  of 
much  tumult,  in  the  confusion  and 
conflict  of  ideas  and  ideologies,  we 
turn  with  a  spiritual  yearning  to 
that  which  seems  steadfast,  to  eter- 
nal patterns,  and  to  everlasting  law. 
Many  travelers  have  observed 
that  the  stars  which  are  visible  in 
the  Holy  Land  seem  more  beautiful 
than  those  in  any  other  place  in  all 
the  world.  This  may,  perhaps,  be 
explained  by  the  fact  that  Palestine 
is  largely  desert  country,  rifted  by 
mountains  and  cut  by  gullies.  And 
in  contrast  to  this  wilderness  which 
is  the  land,  the  stars  shine  with  ut- 
most brilliance  and  they  seem  to  be 
very  near  to  earth. 
Above  the  hills  of  the  East  ap- 
peared the  new  star,  a  fulfillment  of 
prophecy,  a  guide,  and  a  beacon. 
The  Magi  followed  that  star  with 
implicit  faith  akin  to  that  high 
spiritual  dedication  with  which 
many  in  succeeding  ages  have  fol- 
Page  814 
lowed  the  gospel  of  which  the  star 
was  a  symbol.  And  many  have 
thought  of  the  message  that  Jesus 
brought  to  the  earth  as  being  like 
unto  the  stars  in  its  steadfast  shin- 
ing. 
It  has  been  said  that  the  heavens 
are  an  open  book  in  which  the  stars 
are  golden  letters.  Yet  there  is 
much  that  men,  without  revelation, 
cannot  understand.  For  in  the  stars 
is  written  the  story  of  how  the 
worlds  were  made  and  set  in  place. 
The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has  told 
us  that: 
The  earth  rolls  upon  her  wings,  and  the 
sun  giveth  his  light  by  day,  and  the  moon 
giveth  her  light  by  night,  and  the  stars 
also  give  their  light,  as  they  roll  upon 
their  wings  in  their  glory,  in  the  midst 
of  the  power  of  God  ....  Behold,  all 
these  are  kingdoms,  and  any  man  who 
hath  seen  any  or  the  least  of  these  hath 
seen  God  moving  in  his  majesty  and 
power  (D.  &  C.  88:45,  46,  and  47). 
In  this  time  and  in  this  place 
may  we  be  comforted  by  the  symbol 
of  eternal  patterns  which  the  stars 
reveal,  and  let  us  rest  assured  that 
more  knowledge  will  be  given  us  in 
that  time  and  place  which  God  has 
set  for  our  knowing. 
Is  not  God  in  the  height  of  the  heaven? 
and  behold  the  height  of  the  stars,  how 
high  they  are!  And  thou  sayest.  How 
does  God  know?  .  .  .  Thick  clouds  are  a 
covering  to  him  .  .  .  and  he  walketh  in 
the  circuit  of  heaven  (Job  22:12-14). 
V.  p.  c.