[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: Questing Lights Chapter Anderson]

Questing Lights Belle Watson Anderson CHAPTER g ( Conclusion) WHEN a Scotchman really makes up his mind, things begin to happen. That's why Margaret was just hanging up the curtains in the cabin when the Missionary walked in. "Andrew!" She hopped down from the ladder. "We weren't expecting you so soon. How did you manage it?" Andrew spoke impetuously, "Margaret, when a man's in love, he Says to the whole world, 'Step aside, and let me pass!' Well, here I am! Nothing will ever stop me if you are willing, Margaret, could you learn to love me?" "Learn to love you?" Margaret stood silent for 4 minute, then laughed joyously. "You see, man, I am far ahead of you. Like Rachel of old, I have waited seven long years for this, with not the encouragement she received, either," er face grew grave as she relived the years in her thoughts. "You mean—Oh! Margaret, it is unbelievable." He took her tenderly in his arms and kissed her. "Darling, I wil] spend a lifetime to say I'm grateful." The bairms outside heard voices and came in on the run. "If only mother could see her bairns today, she wouldna' worry," Andrew Prophesied. "Margaret how can I pay you?" Page 822 "I love the bairns, Andrew." He took them all in his arms together. "Oh! You are all so marvelous. What a homecoming! I'm a very happy man." If Andrew had put time and effort into his Missionary work, Mar. Garet had been Just as busy in the care of the bairns and the wool. In Tooele she had been thrifty and saved her money. She loved to work in the soft, fine, white wool, and to the cards, she had added a spinning wheel and a loom for weaving carpet and Tugs. She had even purchased a jig for knitting socks and stockings. She looked forward to owning a home of her own someday on the millrace, where she would install a large loom for weaving cloth. Linsey-woolsey was very Popular. The loom could be rigged to a water wheel in the big creek, Many bats of many hanks of yarn, white and beautiful colors, for knitting, Carpets, come out When she had too much to do, Kathleen and Mother had helped her. So the loom clicked and clattered, and the spinning wheel hummed and away the hours while Andrew had been away preaching the gospel. In the cabin Margaret had also put glass in the windows, changed the mud roof for homemade shingles, laid Carpet on the floors, and planted many roses and walnut trees around the home. at once, by Margaret had also put glass in the windows, changed the mud roof for homemade shingles, laid carpet on the floors, and planted many roses and walnut trees around the home. 823 ANDREW wanted to be married at once, but Margaret wanted a beautiful wedding. At the store when they could not pay her in cash, she got many yards of lovely material, and sometimes whole bolts of lace. She wanted some bonny and dainty things for herself and for her home. In Scotland the girls began early to make and plan their trousseaux. Kathleen and Mother were wonderful sewers, and with their help, they all could have beautiful dresses, and she could have some lovely things for her home. So she left the spinning room in the cabin for a sewing room at Mother's for a time.
They baked a wedding cake, fruit puddings, and shortbread, everything that was essential for a very wonderful wedding. And while they worked they talked.
Kathleen and Mother told Margaret of the time when Andrew had raised grain on the river bottoms and timbered in the forest and that when he received word of Jane's marriage he hadn't gone back to the fields or to the forest.
"Yes, he was hard hit for a time, my darling, but his mission has cured him of all that," Mother said.
Margaret remembered the "Jane look," as she had called it on the plains when Andrew would sit for a long time and look far beyond the camp. She had known he was dreaming of Jane. That was all passed now; she did not need to worry about Jane. Margaret knew now that Andrew loved her. Yes, Andrew loved her but why did he not go back to the land and to the forest? The wool was her job. Andrew's was the harvest and grain. She thought of a plan. She was
curious, and wanted to go to the river bottoms with Andrew Rumgay. She suggested to him that they take a horseback ride the next Saturday afternoon. She was tired of being shut up in the sewing room, she told him; she wanted to get out in the sunshine.
Andrew thought it was a wonderful idea, so he brought Gypsy and Pinto up to Mother's for their ride.
They slowly walked their horses to the canyon. Resplendence was beautiful at this time of year. A tapestry in every tone and color of the autumn had been hung from the ceiling of the mountains. Farther up in the hills vesper campfires were bright burning. The river sang low, sacred melodies for the rituals of the harvest time.
They tied their horses to some maple brush and walked into the great silent woodlands. Higher up in the mountains they heard the loud crash of falling trees and the wild cry of timber.
"The more trees that come down in the forest the more homes go up in the valleys. Many people are coming to the mountains to find homes every year, Margaret. They must find them. Soon I must return to the forests."
They walked back to their horses, mounted, and when they reached the river road Margaret touched the reins with her quirt, and they were off to a gallop towards the bottoms. At the crossing they reined their horses. Margaret was off Pinto in a jiffy. They stood almost speechless in the beauty of the valley and listened to the wild singing of the stream. They found a boulder on the edge of the creek and sat down. ANDREW was particularly interested in the songs of the stream. He smiled. "Can you imagine anything so far-fetched as to interpret these very happy roundelays of music into weird and solemn dirges?"
"Oh, it's so peaceful here. Wouldn't it be wonderful to live out here? You could farm and I could card wool. When you harvested I could bind and gather the sheaves."
"When the Indians become more friendly, Margaret, we will build our home in the bottoms." Andrew arose and led Margaret to the fields. The one hundred sixty acres had been raised on some of it this year. He picked up some of the fine black soil, pressed it in his hands, and slowly let it fall back to mother earth.
"I am like my kinsmen in Scotland, Margaret. I would like to own some land."
Margaret gave a big sigh of relief. "We will find other fields, darling, and build greater harvests. The bottoms have wonderful dreams of home, wife, and children. Margaret, life will be so complete."
The young lady looked up and smiled. "Brother Rumgay, did I remember to tell you that I love you, and I think you are wonderful?" She put her arms around him and kissed him. "Name our wedding day, Andrew, and I will make arrangements to be there."
On their way home Andrew spoke seriously. "Margaret, we have treasure on our land, but we will land and which we will never hang on the wall, or place on the mantel. We walked into the plains one day
them. They are more precious than the crown jewels of Scotland. Mother has her rocks, the sage, ginger tea, even the catnip. Then what comes, Margaret?"
"Her prayers and faith, Andrew. I know that my Redeemer liveth.' "
"With such a wife, darling, I know I cannot fail."
They planned to be married as soon as arrangements could be carried out. They would take two covered wagons for the wedding trip to the temple, and all the Macs, and this time the bairns.
One afternoon Andrew left his wagon up at Mother Mac's, for the women to pack everything they would need on the trip. They expected to leave at five the next morning. In the evening he went along to see that everything was ready. Bob was just putting in the wagon box the table and benches he had chopped to build fires.
"What, no Bob to build the fires?" Andrew asked.
"Mother is taking everything we used on the plains—tents, camp kettles, dishes, bedding, and this time we have a lantern."
"Mother says we are just now finishing up the trek, attending to the business that should have been taken care of years ago."
"Your mother has something there, Bob. Why didn't she mention it to me? How are the boxes? Mine are full. I can trust your mother."
"Well that part won't be just like the plains," Bob gratefully admitted.
THE Macs had planned to hold a reception at Mother's when they returned, but the people of the ward had taken things over. The meetinghouse was decorated, and the sisters had cooked a big wedding supper at the Hunters. They had baked other wedding cakes, as one would not be enough for everyone in town to have a piece. After the supper there was a wonderful program, and at the last Brother Huntcraft had a few words to say to Andrew and Margaret.
"I'll only keep you a few minutes. I know you all want to dance. I'd like to find a word Angus started. Andrew, a few years ago you and I picked out some land on the river bottoms.
"Well, after you left on your mission, the people decided that since you were so willing to go into the world and represent us, they would like to do something for you. Tonight we are giving you back the one hundred and sixty acres, all paid for, and nearly all broken up. And this is just one of the many wedding presents the people of Resplendence are giving to you tomorrow night, Brother and Sister Rumgay. A long and happy married life!"
Andrew felt he had the world in his arms when the Lord gave him Margaret. Now, with the land, and the many gifts his friends had showered upon them, he was amazed.
They called for a speech, and Andrew stood up. "Brothers and Sisters, my heart is too full for expression tonight. When a man has the gospel, a wife, home, land, beautiful gifts, and kind friends, no words can express his appreciation. I hope through my life and the rest
of my life to prove to the Lord, and to you, how grateful I really am. Thanks a lot, folks."
At the end of the party they passed the wedding cake. Everyone called for a dance by the Macs. The orchestra began playing "Annie Laurie." Brother Coleman danced with Mother Mac, Bob chose Helen Hunter who was just about a Mac.
Margaret was beautiful in her white wedding gown and long veil of white, soft lace, which she had made, sewing yard after yard, upon row, until it was long enough to fall into the full, rippling folds of her dress. She wore a wreath of white satin rosebuds with blue and ivory centers. Her corsage and bouquet were of white and pink ladyslipper combined with blue sisters.
Kathleen was lovely in a beautiful shade of yellow. Mother, with the soft of blue hair, was very bonny in pale lavender. Janet, the little flower girl, wore pink.
The strains of the romantic music of "Annie Laurie" were changed to the sweet rhythm of "Home, Sweet Home." Everyone took partners and joined the Macs in the last dance. The music was sacred, the theme was divine, as the bridal couple kept time to its beautiful melody.
"I love the cabin down on the millrace, Margaret," Andrew spoke softly.
"I have learned to love it, too."
They danced a few measures, and Margaret added, "And the bairns."