[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Article | Title: Lean Your Ear This Way (Conclusion)]

"Lean Your Ear This Way" (Conclusion) Iris W. Schow

(Continued from page 807) finger, not "aside of his nose," but in the familiar, self-conscious gesture of pushing back his hair, for just the split second before he recollected that some of his hair simply could not bear pushing back. Unmistakable, the familiar young hand on the pudgy old body! She could almost see the willing-to-please expression behind that puffy, round smile. Wanting to laugh almost as much as she wanted to cry, Adele remained for the rest of the conversation. "You won't be seeing me on Christmas Eve, boys, but I'll be seeing you," concluded Santa Claus.

AS the boys moved out of earshot, Adele stepped forward. "Isn't it about time for your lunch, Santa?" she inquired. "I beg your pardon, madam," Roy said. Then, noticing the giveaway in the tone of his voice, despite his effort to disguise it, he added ruefully, "I might have known you'd find me out. I admit it's more than lunch time. Just wait a second, while I change coats, and I'll take you out for a sandwich."

"I have to talk to a saleswoman upstairs," said Adele. "I'll attend to that while I wait. But, Roy, whatever happened at Freem's, you should have told me."

"Nothing spectacular happened at Freem's," he stated simply. "Just the unexpected return from Tokyo of one Major Dickson, an expert assistant manager, with honorable discharge papers in good order, and considerably more than a murmur ailing his heart. I would have told you, if I hadn't known that I could keep us in the income class by Santa Clausing until Christmas and helping with the pre-inventory sale here until the new year. And after that I have the promise of helping out with income tax returns at the State Capitol. In my spare time I'll continue to haunt the employment agency, in the hope of getting something really good lined up again."

"And I know you will," reassured Adele. The beauty of it was, she felt, that she actually did know that he would. It might be ridiculous, but, after all, it was traditional to feel just this warmly confident when one walked beside that bulky, red-clad figure. All the while she had worried so about wherever Roy could be, he had been fully competent to take care of his share in their partnership. Conscious that Roy was still talking as he led her toward the back of the store, Adele centered her attention on his words.

"I certainly wasn't going to tell you about this stunt until afterward. I'm glad it doesn't strike you as being too rugged. But, once I get a real job lined up again, no more of this Santa Claus gag for me!"

"I wasn't going to tell you, either," said Adele, and the merriment in her eyes became something that was deeper. "But, 'Lean your ear this way,' Saint Nicholas! No matter how good a job you line up from this year on, you'll have to count on assuming the role of Santa Claus, permanently."