[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 37 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting Teachers Messages: "Ye Cannot Serve God and Mammon" Elder H. Wayne Driggs]
visiting in the wards in which they live as ward teachers, trying to draw the men in that have not done just what they should, and then the women would go out and do their share, encouraging the women to come in. Do you realize what the Lord has said? What matters it, though you spend your whole life here upon earth, performing the duties: incident to mortality, spend your whole 838 life, and during that time the result of your effort is the salvation of one soul, and that your own? He said you shall have great joy in our Father's kingdom with that soul. We all have something to do, and I congratulate you on what you have done. No other group of women in all the world has compared with what you have done in the way of blessing mankind, rearing your families and devoting yourselves unselfishly to bringing peace and happiness to those that were in distress, and because of that, the Lord loves you, and he is anxious that you should have every advantage and every blessing, and he will give it to you just as fast as you are worthy. I am grateful to be here with you today. I thank these sisters who invited me to come and visit with you, and I want to be among those who will be permitted to come into your new building when it is completed. I hope that it may be kept so sweet and clean and wholesome and beautiful and delightful that the Spirit of the Lord will find comfort there. That is what I hope it to be, and I trust that that will be in the not far distant future. I wish I could tell you just where it could be located. I wish I knew, but it will not be far away from the Temple. It will not be far away from the Tabernacle, and I want to say to you it will not be very far away from the Lord, and that is the important part. So keep smiling, keep working, keep planning, and praying. Remember your sisters in the old world, millions of them, who have comparatively no comforts. In twenty-four hours they could not enjoy the peace that you have here in five minutes in this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 building today, wherever they are, and they are your sisters. We have over five thousand missionaries in the world endeavoring to bring the peace and happiness that you have to our Father's other sons and daughters. A good many of those in the world are women. There was a time when our sisters did not go into the world very much as missionaries. There was a time when some of the mission presidents did not think they could do missionary work very well, it was so difficult, but if you would see some of the letters that are written in from mission presidents now, ""Cannot you send us some of those fine women that can do such splendid work among the women and among the children in these lands?" There is a way. It is coming. In the not far distant future there will be more missionaries out. If we will just keep the standard of liberty and of righteousness floating here in our homeland, keeping our homes in order, husbands faithful and devoted to wives, and wives faithful and devoted to husbands, parents to children, children to parents, neighbors to neighbors, remembering that the second great commandment referred to in this wonderful volume by the Savior of the world was: "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." If we did that how wonderful it would be to go from house to house and from village to village and find dwelling in every heart the Spirit of God burning there in a luminous, delightful way, filling the soul with happiness and peace and comfort and satisfaction and knowing that that will endure forever. I pray that the Lord will bless LIVING TO ENJOY THE BLESSINGS OF THE LORD these presiding officers, the general officers, the stake officers, the ward officers, all these who have responsibility, and oh, let your light so shine that others seeing your good works will be constrained to glorify the name of our Heavenly Father. We are his children. This is a part of his family that is gathered here today. How wonderful it is to know that he is not far from us, that he is all-powerful, and has promised us that if trouble comes, if necessary he will come down in heaven, not from heaven, he will bring heaven with him upon this earth and fight our battles and preserve us, and we will go on living throughout the ages of eternity. That is the promise of our Heavenly Father. | Again, I thank you for your kindness to me and to my associates as we travel in your communities, your kindness to all those who need you, your kindness to those people who live across the great and mighty ocean. I do not know whether you have been told, but probably you have, one hundred and twelve carloads, each car the capacity of forty tons, a hundred and twelve carloads of food and bedding and clothing have been shipped across the ocean 839 since the war to feed and make comfortable your other brothers and sisters, some of whom have not yet come into the Church. That has been your contribution. How many quilts did you have? We have had in total about nine thousand. My goodness! Just about two months from now you will wake up some morning, somebody has left the window open and the fire has gone out and you will wish you had just one more quilt, and then realize that the organization that you belong to, in that one item—that is only one item—over nine thousand handmade, homemade, quilts have been made by your organization, and then you have asked for the privilege of giving them, not selling them, 'of giving them to our Father's other children that they may be, in part at least, as comfortable as you are. God bless you for your faith and your devotion and your fine work. Keep your homes in order. Keep the adversary away. Live so that the Spirit of God will be with you all the time, and I can say to you that if you will do that you will be happy all the time and that you may so be, I humbly pray, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.