[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Alice Willardson]

Aprons for Christmas Alice Willardson IT seems only yesterday that we | had our annual ""Day with Longfellow." I mean the day we spend each fall in the canyon. We sit on a hillside in the warm sunshine absorbing the quiet and glorious color while we take turns in reading Longfellow's poems. It has become a sort of personal holiday to keep the autumn from slipping past us. This year the maple leaves were so colorful that with the sunlight on them they actually seemed to give off light and warmth like fire, fire which does not leap and fade but remains steadily brilliant. I am glad, too, for the pine boughs and the cedar berries, for today the sky is gray and the wind is furious. Dead leaves are blown carelessly against the windowpanes; the fire in the fireplace feels good. The smell of the pine boughs burning in the grate is so pungent that I can close my eyes and see the Christmas tree. I can see all the gifts and wrappings scattered everywhere and hear all the happy noises and excitement. It won't be long till Christmas! You know! This year I think I'll have an apron Christmas! This morning the sewing room looks very cozy and inviting. And just last week I heard Vina say she didn't have a single good apron. She likes one that is big and serviceable. Kate likes them to be sort of pretty and serviceable, too. I have a pattern with a ruffle on the shoulders, pinafore style, that will give it a festive appearance. She likes red, too, and it will sort of go with her Page 818 kitchen. Anne always loves yellow and I have those scraps of flowered dimity which will combine with either white or yellow organdy beautifully. That's one thing about giving aprons, they can be so individual. And they are within the pocketbook of the giver and always welcomed by the receiver. There are so many styles, colors, and materials—aprons for all occasions and all ages. Apron styles like those in illustrations No. 1 and No. 2 will cover your whole dress from danger of splashings. Made from percale, and minus the ruffles, they will be very practical. If made from dimity they 819 wear exceptionally well, too, and
are so pretty to protect your nice
dress while you serve the Sunday
dinner. With the ruffles, or a touch
of applique, they are pretty as well
as serviceable. Notice the back in
picture No. 2. If you are tired of
washing and untangling apron
strings, this button back is very
neat and effective. And if you want
to save ironing, leave off the ruffles
and just trim with braid, bias
tape, or a combination material.
There are many other styles for anyone
who wants an apron to really
work in, one that covers the dress
completely. Wrap-around styles are
the handiest and most useful aprons
for the busy housewife.
Next, there are all the lovely little
serving aprons— aprons as pretty and
dainty as flowers. These can be
No. 4
made from lawn, dimity, organdy,
dotted Swiss (and by the way, if
you want a very fragile, dainty looking
apron that will really stand
many washings, you can't beat dotted Swiss). There are three pictures of serving
aprons illustrated here, Nos. 3,
4, and 5, which can be made from
combinations of materials. They allow
you to use scraps of quite a variety
of shapes and sizes. Often when
you have to use your own ingenuity
to make something of the material
you already have on hand, the result
is much prettier than if you had
bought special material and used a
commercial pattern. A combination
of materials is usually prettier
than just one material, and you can
use old aprons for cutting patterns for new ones.
 820 No. 6 APRON No. 6 gives a suggestion for using applique trimming to form the pocket. Applique is used also to trim No. 7. An excellent idea for getting flowers, fruit, etc. For your applique work is to cut them out from some of the many colorful materials with large and distinct designs. Aprons may be effectively trimmed with ruffles of self material (as illustrated in No. 8) or RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 they may be accented with ruffles of a contrasting color. A very lovely decorative apron was made from white organdy as illustrated in No. 9. Colorful flowers cut from percale were inserted under the hem. The hem was turned over the flowers and fastened down on the right side by a dainty featherstitch. The same motif was also sewed under the organdy pocket. The flowers under the organdy not only made the work less inclined to ravel, and more easily ironed, but they also gave it a sort of ethereal, fairylike touch so suitable to organdy. No. 10 There are no gifts more acceptable to both mothers and daughters than the lovely pinafores illustrated in No. 10. Make the "daughter" apron out of material just like mother's.
There are all types of trimmings, too. Braids and laces of all kinds are on the market now. There are all kinds of handwork, from blanket or featherstitching to lovely embroidery done in silk. And, if you feel so inclined, there are now available fabric paints which are suitable and absolutely washfast. I have a painted tea towel which washes right along with my dish towels regularly.
If you are looking for something really different, there are all the aprons for special work, like clothespin aprons and sewing aprons. I even got an idea for a man's apron the other day as I watched my son priming the car. Why not make an apron of heavy, waterproof material, containing pockets for the sponge, the cleaner, the wax, the chamois, etc. Might save a lot of hunting for them. This apron could be hung in the basement after it was used and it would be ready for use again the next time, complete with all the equipment. Maybe I'm planning a gift that would be more welcomed by the man than by my gift that way, it's an idea!