[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 34 | Category: Article | Title: In Memoriam Alice Merrill Horne]
IN  MEMORIAM— ALICE  MERRILL  HORNE  817 
helped  all  who  knew  her  to  partake  of  the  same  bounty.  She  leaves  an 
able  and  gifted  family,  two  sons  who  are  doctors,  and  three  talented  and 
lovely  daughters,  who  are  carrying  forward  much  of  their  mother's  un- 
finished work. 
Alice  Merrill  Home  will  be  long  remembered  for  her  kind  nursing  of 
the  sick,  her  innumerable  kindnesses  as  a  neighbor,  and  her  untiring  devo- 
tion as  a  friend.  Many  remember  her  precious  guardianship  of  pioneer 
ideals  and  skills.  She  will  also  be  remembered  as  a  woman  richly  endowed 
who  gave  liberally  of  all  that  she  possessed. 
Relief  Society  women  who  attended  the  annual  general  Relief  Society 
conference,  held  just  prior  to  Sister  Home's  death,  will  remember  her  as  she 
sat  on  the  stand  as  an  honored  woman  who  had  labored  long  and  faithfully 
for  the  advancement  of  Relief  Society  work  in  all  its  many  phases— a 
woman  of  whom  we  all  may  well  be  proud  and  appreciative  that  she  has 
lived  among  us. 
lie\K>  Serial  to   {Begin  in  ^anuarif 
'THE  first  chapter  of  **]oann'd"  a  new  serial  by  Margery  Stockseth  Stew- 
art, will  begin  in  the  January  issue  of  the  Rdief  Society  Magazine.  The 
story  relates  the  courageous  efforts  of  a  young  widow  to  give  her  four  chil- 
dren the  best  in  life.  The  character  portrayal  is  excellent,  and  the  entire 
story  is  beautifully  written. 
The  author  is  the  wife  of  Russell  Stewart  and  the  mother  of  two  chil- 
dren. She  is  of  Norwegian  descent  and  has  received  a  Citizenship  Award 
from  the  Salt  Lake  City  Junior  Chamber  of  Commerce  given  for  outstand- 
ing accomplishments  of  descendants  of  foreign-born  Americans.  A  gifted 
writer  of  both  stories  and  poetry,  Mrs.  Stewart  has  won  many  prizes.  In 
1946  her  story  "The  Return"  placed  first  in  the  Relief  Society  Short  Story 
Contest.  Many  of  her  poems  have  appeared  in  the  Magazine,  including 
several  frontispiece  poems. 
Mrs.  Stewart  is  a  member  of  several  literary  organizations:  the  League 
of  Utah  Writers,  the  Barnacles  (a  Salt  Lake  City  story-writing  group),  and 
she  recently  organized  a  chapter  of  the  National  Writers'  Club.  Her 
Church  work  has  been  varied,  with  service  in  dramatics  in  the  M.  L  A.  be- 
ing particularly  outstanding. 
« ♦ « 
WINTER 
Alice  R.  Rich 
North  wind,  like  unleashed  fury,  comes  from  bare  and  sodden  hills, 
And  sapless,  naked  trees  and  shrubs  creak  with  its  biting  chills; 
Gray,  lumbering  clouds  roll  ominously,  without  turmoil  or  sound. 
Then  loose  their  mist  to  spread  a  skirt  of  crystals  on  the  ground.

Aprons  for  Christmas 
Alice  Wilhidson 
IT  
seems  only  yesterday  that  we 
had  our  annual  ''Day  with  Long- 
fellow." I  mean  the  day  we 
spend  each  fall  in  the  canyon.  We 
sit  on  a  hillside  in  the  warm  sun- 
shine absorbing  the  quiet  and  glori- 
ous color  while  we  take  turns  in 
reading  Longfellow's  poems.  It  has 
become  a  sort  of  personal  holiday 
to  keep  the  autumn  from  slipping 
past  us.  This  year  the  maple  leaves 
were  so  colorful  that  with  the  sun- 
light on  them  they  actually  seemed 
to  give  off  light  and  warmth  like 
fire,  fire  which  does  not  leap  and 
fade  but  remains  steadily  brilliant. 
I  am  glad,  too,  for  the  pine 
boughs  and  the  cedar  berries,  for 
today  the  sky  is  gray  and  the  wind 
is  furious.  Dead  leaves  are  blown 
carelessly  against  the  windowpanes; 
the  fire  in  the  fireplace  feels  good. 
The  smell  of  the  pine  boughs  burn- 
ing in  the  grate  is  so  pungent  that 
I  can  close  my  eyes  and  see  the 
Christmas  tree.  I  can  see  all  the 
gifts  and  wrappings  scattered  every- 
where and  hear  all  the  happy  noises 
and  excitement. 
It  won't  be  long  till  Christmas! 
You  know!  This  year  I  think  I'll 
have  an  apron  Christmas! 
This  morning  the  sewing  room 
looks  very  cozy  and  inviting.  And 
just  last  week  I  heard  Vina  say  she 
didn't  have  a  single  good  apron. 
She  likes  one  that  is  big  and  service- 
able. Kate  likes  them  to  be  sort  of 
pretty  and  serviceable,  too.  I  have 
a  pattern  with  a  ruffle  on  the  shoul- 
ders, pinafore  style,  that  will  give  it 
a  festive  appearance.  She  likes  red, 
too,  and  it  will  sort  of  go  v^th  her 
Page  818 
kitchen.  Anne  always  loves  yellow 
and  I  have  those  scraps  of  flowered 
dimity  which  will  combine  with 
either  white  or  yellow  organdy 
beautifully. 
That's  one  thing  about  giving 
aprons,  they  can  be  so  individual. 
And  they  are  within  the  pocketbook 
of  the  giver  and  always  welcomed 
by  the  receiver.  There  are  so  many 
styles,  colors,  and  materials— aprons 
for  all  occasions  and  all  ages. 
Apron  styles  like  those  in  illustra- 
tions No.  1  and  No.  2  will  cover 
your  whole  dress  from  danger  of 
splashings.  Made  from  percale,  and 
minus  the  ruffles,  they  will  be  very 
practical.    If  made  from  dimity  they

APRONS  FOR  CHRISTMAS 
819 
No.  2 
wear  exceptionally  well,  too,  and 
are  so  pretty  to  protect  your  nice 
dress  while  you  serve  the  Sunday 
dinner.  With  the  ruffles,  or  a  touch 
of  applique,  they  are  pretty  as  well 
as  serviceable.  Notice  the  back  in 
picture  No.  2.  If  you  are  tired  of 
washing  and  untangling  apron 
strings,  this  button  back  is  very 
neat  and  effective.  And  if  you  want 
to  save  ironing,  leave  off  the  ruf- 
fles and  just  trim  with  braid,  bias 
tape,  or  a  combination  material. 
There  are  many  other  styles  for  any- 
one who  wants  an  apron  to  really 
work  in,  one  that  covers  the  dress 
completely.  Wrap-around  styles  are 
the  handiest  and  most  useful  aprons 
for  the  busy  housewife. 
Next,  there  are  all  the  lovely  little 
serving  aprons— aprons  as  pretty  and 
dainty  as   flowers.     These  can   be 
No.  4 
made  from  lawn,  dimity,  organdy, 
dotted  Swiss  (and  by  the  way,  if 
you  want  a  very  fragile,  dainty  look- 
ing apron  that  will  really  stand 
many  washings,  you  can't  beat  dot- 
ted Swiss). 
There  are  three  pictures  of  serv- 
ing aprons  illustrated  here,  Nos.  3, 
4,  and  5,  which  can  be  made  from 
combinations  of  materials.  They  al- 
low you  to  use  scraps  of  quite  a  va- 
riety of  shapes  and  sizes.  Often  when 
you  have  to  use  your  own  ingenuity 
to  make  something  of  the  material 
you  already  have  on  hand,  the  result 
is  much  prettier  than  if  you  had 
bought  special  material  and  used  a 
commercial  pattern.  A  combina- 
tion of  materials  is  usually  prettier 
than  just  one  material,  and  you  can 
use  old  aprons  for  cutting  patterns 
for  new  ones. 
No.  3 
No.  5