[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Article | Title: Optional Lessons in Lieu Lyon]

Optional Lessons of Social Science—The First Presidencies (Primarily for use outside Continental United States and its possessions ) Lesson 5—The Presidency of John Taylor Elder T. Edgar Lyon For Tuesday, March 22, 1949 The Presidency a unit The three ARE ONE George QO. Cannon President John Taylor At Milnthorpe, Westmoreland, England, on November 1, 1808, a child was born in humble surroundings whose influence as a stalwart defender of religious truth, was destined to be felt in Canada, the United States, and the continent of Europe before his life closed seventynine years later. John Taylor was his name and he became the third President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Born into a Church of England family, he was discontented with its theology and sought for more vital religion. When about fifteen years of age he joined the Methodist Church and was soon functioning as a local exhorter. About 1828 he emigrated to the New World and within a year John Taylor Joseph F. Smith or two had established himself in Toronto, Canada, as a local Methodist preacher. He was a wood turner and made his living at this trade. It was not long, however, until he became dissatisfied with Methodism. He was an assiduous reader and had an analytical mind. His treading and thinking showed him how far Methodism was removed from the gospel of the. New Testament Church, and so he withdrew from the Methodist organization, taking a large following with him, and formed with them a study group for the purpose of discovering the true Biblical teachings concerning the fundamentals of Christianity. They came to be known as "Dissenters." At this time a new sect known as the "Irvingites" was making LESSON DEPARTMENT claim that God had called a prophet and that the Primitive Church was again formed: upon the earth. John Taylor was attracted to this movement but soon saw its inadequacy and withdrew from it, continuing his search for the true Church. It was at this critical time in his life that Parley P. Pratt arrived in Toronto. He traveled as did the ancient apostles "without purse or scrip," depending upon God to direct him to the honest in heart. Elder Pratt began holding meetings and among those who attended were John Taylor and his wife. "John wrote down eight sermons which Apostle Pratt preached," says B. H. Roberts, "and compared them with the scripture." He also investigated the evidences of the divine authenticity of the Book of Mormon and the Doctrine and Covenants. "I made a regular business of it for three weeks," John relates, "and followed Brother Parley from place to' place." The result of this thorough investigation was that John Taylor and his wife, Leonora Cannon Taylor, were baptized on May 9, 1836, by Elder Pratt. Elder Taylor became a staunch supporter of the Prophet Joseph. He was called to the apostleship by revelation on July 8, 1838, and thus began a career of Church leadership that was to continue for forty-nine years. -At Nauvoo he was editor of the Church weekly, the Nauvoo Neighbor and also for a time of the monthly periodical Times and Seasons (a semi-monthly publication after the first year). In these capacities he became intimately associated with Joseph Smith and grew to love him with a bond that 857 was stronger than any fear of death. He voluntarily accompanied Joseph Smith to Carthage jail and the Prophet's last hours in mortality, indeed his very last hour,. Was soothed and comforted by the tender and wholesome spirit and loving friendship of John Taylor. During the attack in which the Prophet lost his life, Elder Taylor received four musket balls in his body, one of which he carried with him to the grave. As a member of the Council of the Twelve he did extensive missionary work, opening Ireland, France, and Germany to the preaching of the gospel: and supervising the translation of the Book of Mormon into French and German. At the death of Brigham Young in 1877, John Taylor was senior member of the Council of. The Twelve and by virtue of this office, presided over the Church during the apostolic presidency which lasted until 1880. In October of the latter year the First Presidency was reorganized and he was sustained as President of the Church, with George Q. Cannon (whom he had converted in England in 1840) and Joseph F. Smith (later to become the sixth President of the Church) as_ his counselors. This Presidency served the Church until 1887. This decade from 1877 to 1887 was a trying one, filled with a series of vexatious crusades and troublesome political struggles carried on by enemies of the Church against the Church in the Territory of Utah. The courage that President Taylor had manifested in the face of death in Carthage jail now guided him in his administration of Church affairs. In spite of the external pressure that WINTER TERM begins Monday, January 3 There is a continued strong demand for trained office workers. If you are planning a business or civil service career, let us tell you about the waiting here. Opportunities Inquiries welcome at any time. Write for free literature L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main Salt Lake City, Utah SIMPLE ARITHMETIC Merely add an O. P,. Skaggs System Store to your list of BETTER places to shop... Subtract the weekly cost of your purchases. You'll discover an interesting and profitable adventure. Yes, we have all the good things you want, at lowest possible prices. 0. P SKAGGS be service; FOOD "STORES was attempting to destroy the Church, his vision of the destiny of the Latter-day Saint Church was not dimmed. In addition to conducting the affairs of the Church at headquarters, he planned and directed the openings of the Mexican and Maori (New Zealand) missions; inaugurated the Arizona, Colorado, Nevada, and Upper Snake River Valley colonizations of the saints; planned the colonization of saints in Mexico and sent missionaries to labor among the Indians in Idaho, Wyoming, New Mexico, and Arizona. It was during President Taylor's administration that the golden jubilee of the Church was celebrated, and in spite, of the persecution that was directed against the saints it was made a time of rejoicing. Debts due the Perpetual Emigration Fund by poor saints were cancelled, as were overdue tithes; cattle. And sheep were distributed to the poor and the needy; and the Relief Society was called upon to assist in the good work for the benefit of the Church as a whole. The preceding year had been one of great drought and there was a scarcity of seed-wheat for the new crop. President Taylor suggested that the Relief Society sisters lend their 34,761 bushels of stored wheat—they had been accumulating it for years against a time of need— to the farmers, to be repaid without interest after the harvest. 'This was gladly done and proved to be of great benefit to all of the settlements. President Taylor was a man of culture and refinement. He wrote as a gifted theologian and a profoundly religious philosopher. His literary writings, as well as his sermons, 

 —DECEMBER 1948

 LESSON DEPARTMENT manifest a beautiful style. As recreation he wrote religious poetry and drama. His best known poems which have been set to music, are the missionary hymn, "Go Ye Messengers of Glory," "The Glorious Plan," and "The Seer," in which latter he' poured out his heart concerning his departed Prophet-leader. Due to the crusade that was being waged against the Church, President. Taylor was faced with the alternative of submitting to a prison sentence or retiring from the public eye. He chose the latter course and made no public appearance after February 1884. From his post in exile he directed the affairs of the Church to the best of his ability. The enforced separation from his family and his inability to get the exercise to which he was accustomed, undoubtedly shortened his life. He died in exile at Kaysville, Utah, on July 25, 1887. God had guided this leader from his native England to the New World where the restored gospel awaited him, and then given him inspiration to guide the destinies of the kingdom. Of God on earth. George O. Cannon George Q. Cannon, whom President Taylor chose to be his first counselor in 1880, was born in Liverpool, England in 1827, and was baptized by Elder Taylor in June 1840. Emigrating with his parents to Nauvoo in 1842, he went to live at the home of his uncle, Elder John Taylor, and until 1849 was considered a part of the Taylor household. At Nauvoo he learned the printing and publishing business under the tutelage of his uncle, and this skill proved of great worth to himself and the Church in later years. He emigrated 859 BIBLES SINCE 1863 AT YOUR BOOKSTORE "BETTER _LIVING "BUY. FROM to Utah in 1847. 'YOUR 'DEALER' 3 UTAH POWER & LIGHT COMPANY 860 SEARS PARKING RIGHT HANDY You are just a step or two from your car when you shop at Sears. No long walks with heavy bundles, no parking tickets to bother with. Main or State at 8th South Salt Lake City, Utah Dial 5-6651 Park Free Professional and Social Stationery COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948

 Brigham Young recognized in him a man of great ability both in temporal and spiritual matters, and he was called as a missionary to the Hawaiian Islands in 1850. He remained there until 1854 and during these four years was primarily instrumental in the conversion of about four thousand natives to the Church. He acquired great proficiency in the use of the Hawaiian language and translated. The Book of Mormon into that tongue, and later at San Francisco, published this work. He was ordained an apostle August 26, 1860, and left soon afterward for New York where he acted as immigration agent for the Church, In 1861 he established the first Church owned printing shop in England, and for many years this establishment was the chief publishing center for Church literature. While in charge of the British Mission between 1862 and 1864, he directed the emigration of upwards of 13,000 saints to America in especially chartered vessels. Charles Dickens visited one of these vessels before it sailed, to make a report on emigration, and saw President Cannon supervising and organizing the group for the voyage. He paid President Cannon and the Mormon emigrants some fine compliments in his article in Uncommercial Traveler. President Cannon established the Juvenile Instructor (now The Instructor) in 1866, as a means of teaching the gospel to the youth of Zion. He devoted many years to the organization of the Sunday Schools in the Church and was a member of the Sunday School Union from its organization in 1867 until his death LESSON DE