[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 36 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting Teachers Messages: "Ye Cannot Serve God and Mammon" Elder H. Wayne Driggs]
Visiting  cJeachers    1 1  Lessages — Our  Savior 
Speaks 
Lesson  6— ^'Ye  Cannot  Serve  God  and  Mammon" 
Elder  H.  Wayne  Diiggs 
For  Tuesday,  March  i,  1949 
Objective:  To  emphasize  that  the  allurements  of  the  world  do  not  provide  lasting 
happiness. 
^OyrO  man  can  serve  two  masters: 
for  either  he  will  hate  the  one, 
and  love  the  other;  or  else  he  will 
hold  to  the  one,  and  despise  the 
other"  (Matthew  6:24).  In  this 
statement,  from  the  Sermon  on  the 
Mount,  our  Savior  was  warning 
against  setting  our  hearts  too  much 
upon  material  wealth  and  worldly 
possessions.  "For,"  he  declared, 
'where  your  treasure  is,  there  will 
your  heart  be  also"  (Matt.  6:21). 
Does  this  mean  that  we  must  forego 
pleasure  in  the  good  things  of  earth? 
No,  for  we  are  told  that: 
.  .  .  the  earth  is  man's  and  the  fulness 
thereof  .  .  .  Yea,  all  things  which  come 
of  the  earth,  in  the  season  thereof,  are 
made  for  the  benefit  and  the  use  of  man, 
both  to  please  the  eye  and  to  gladden  the 
heart;  yea,  for  food  and  for  raiment  .  .  . 
And  it  pleaseth  God  that  he  hath  given 
all  these  things  unto  man;  for  unto  this 
end  were  they  made  to  be  used,  with 
judgment,  not  to  excess  (D.  &  C.  59:18- 
20). 
Note  those  concluding  words:  "to 
be  used  with  judgment,  not  to  ex- 
cess."   Is  ours  not  an  age  of  excess? 
As  the  poet  Wordsworth  phrased  it, 
"The  world  is  too  much  with  us; 
late  and  soon,  getting  and  spending, 
we  lay  waste  our  powers."  If  we 
are  not  careful,  the  worldly  attrac- 
tions in  life  can  become  so  all-ab- 
sorbing that  we  may  fill  our  days 
with  things  of  little  worth.  At  such 
times  we  are  in  danger  of  losing  the 
power  to  discern  what  constitutes 
real  values. 
In  seeking  to  gain  more  and  more 
of  material  things  we  are  apt  to  be- 
come covetous.  Against  this  sin  the 
Savior  warned:  "Take  heed,  and  be 
ware  of  covetousness;  for  a  man's 
life  consisteth  not  in  the  abundance 
of  the  things  which  he  possesseth" 
(Luke  12:15). 
Lay  not  up  for  yourselves  treasures  upon 
earth,  where  moth  and  rust  doth  corrupt, 
and  where  thieves  break  through  and  steal: 
But  lay  up  for  yourselves  treasures  in  heav- 
en, where  neither  moth  nor  rust  doth  cor- 
rupt, and  where  thieves  do  not  break 
through  nor  steal  (Matt.  6:19-20). 
"Ye  cannot  serve  God  and  mam- 
mon" (Matthew  6:24). 
WE  PRAY 
Evelyn  FjeJdsted 
We  pray  not  for  the  downfall  of 
A  sovereign  or  a  goal, 
We  pray  only  that  the  light  of  truth 
May  oome  to  every  soul.

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  847 
Vi/orn    //leeting — Sewing 
(A  Course  for  Optional  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Lesson  6— Blouses  and  Slips 
Jean  Pddges  Jennings 
For  Tuesday,  March  8,  1949 
"lATE  mentioned  in  a  previous  les-  cut  to  follow  the  neckline  of  the 
son  that  men  wear  out  shirts  dress  and   the   designs  varied   into 
in  strategic  points  long  before  the  square  or  rounded  styles, 
whole  of  the  article  has  passed   its         The  front  of  an  old  blouse  might 
usefulness.    The  same  thing  is  true  be  used  intact  as  a  vestee  by  cutting 
of  women's  blouses.    They  get  gen-  away  underarm  sections  and  sleeves, 
erally  shabby  or  the  sleeves  pull  out.  binding  or  hemming  the  edges,  and 
But  the  front  section,  which  is  the  holding  it  around  the  waistline  with 
attractive  part  of  the  blouse,  outlasts  a  tape  sewed  to  the  binding, 
the  garment  as  a  whole.    We  also         Pieces  of  ruffling   or  embroidery 
find  this  is  often  true  of  nice  hn-  could  be  very  ingeniously  used  as 
gerie.    The  part  that  takes  the  rub  bows,  ruffles  or  rosettes  to  be  placed 
goes,  and  we  often  have  the  embroid-  at  the  side  of  a  neckline  or  elsewhere 
ery  and  ruffles  left  in  good  condi-  as  lingerie  touches  to  brighten  up  a 
tion.  drab     dress.     Oftentimes     blouses 
Neckline  accessories  may  be  made  that  have  been  discarded  by  a  grown- 
from  the  odds  and  ends  cut  away  up  can  be  cut   down   into    smaller 
from  old  blouses  and  lingerie.  The  sizes  for  young  girls,  thus  eliminat- 
smallest  bit  of  lace  can  be  renewed  ing  the  worn  parts  under  the  arms 
by  squeezing  it  in  soap  suds,  rinsing  and  around  the  sleeves,  but  still  giv- 
well  and   wrapping   it,   while  wet,  ing  service. 
around  a  glass  or  bottle,  pressing  it         in  many  cases  there  will  be  plenty 
out  to  full  dimensions  with  the  fing-  of  good  material    that    can  be  sal- 
ers  and  allowing  it  to  dry  and  stiffen,  yaged  from  a  slip  when  it  is  worn 
If  necessary  small  pieces  may  be  out  as  far  as  adult  use  is  concerned 
joined  carefully  by  hand,  following  to  make  a  small  girl  a  good  service- 
the  pattern ,  of  the  lace  so  the  join  able  slip.    Add  a  touch  of  beading 
will  not  show.    These  may  then  be  at  the  top  of  the  ruffle  with  a  ribbon 
used  as  edgings  for  collars  or  cuffs  or  drawn  through  it  and  a  tiny  bow 
inserts  on  collars  or  vestees.  and  the  ''small  fry"  who  falls  heir  to 
Usable  collar  and  cuffs  or  collar  it  will  be  proud  as  a  peacock, 
and  vestee  sets  may  be  made  from         Also,  the  good  parts  of  these  nice 
the    good    parts    of    blouses    and  slips    could    easily    be    made    into 
trimmed  with  refurbished  pieces  of  panties  to    be   worn    for    "Sunday 
lace  or  embroidery.    Collars  can  be  best"  by  the  younger  generation.

848  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER  1948