[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Literature Literature of Driggs]

Also, the good parts of these nice slips could easily be made into panties to be worn for "Sunday best" by the younger generation.  Literature of the Gospel Restoration Lesson 6—Lyric Expression of the Restoration Elder Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, March 15, 1949 A truly religious song is an overflow of the soul. When the heart gets "so full that a drop over fills it," lyric expression affords emotional relief. Singing has therefore ever been, except with extremely Puritan-minded folk, closely linked with religion. The children of Israel let out their hearts in song. Thus came their soulful psalms and other lyrics. In later years when Christianity was first being spread among the folk of Europe, the carols, vibrant with love for the Savior, were created to bring continuing joy and uplift for all. The psalms and carols may be called lyrics because they are an outpouring of great emotion— of praise and thanksgiving. The lyric is a poem which has the quality of music. It is a "form of musical utterance in words governed by emotion and set free by a harmonious rhythm." Didactic poetry differs, in that it is instructive in nature or teaches a moral lesson. Lyric poetry as distinguished from either didactic, epic, or dramatic, is expressive of the poet's feelings rather than of outward incident or events. There are certain laws of lyric form. One of them is the law of brevity. It is impossible to keep the lyric pitch for very long. The rapture tums to pain. There is also the law of unity. Too, the lyric vocabulary should not seem studied or consciously ornate for that breaks the law of spontaneity. Naturally, with the spiritual rejoicing inspired by the restoration, the impulse was to sing praises to the Lord. Our Prophet was even given a revelation voicing divine approval of such lyric expression, in these beautiful words: "For my soul delighteth in the song of the heart; yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." In the same revelation the Prophet's wife, Emma, was assigned the "selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given thee, which is pleasing unto me, to be had in my church." With such heavenly sanction and guidance at the beginning, the Latter-day Saints were encouraged in making song and music an intrinsic part of their worship. At the outset, of course, there were no songs written by members of the Church. They could use only those created by others in accord with the spirit of the restored gospel. Within a few years, however, springing largely out of the missionary work, songs began to appear, a few of them set to music of earlier creation. Some of the hymns of high nonsectarian cast were found inspiring  —DECEMBER 1948 LESSON DEPARTMENT and helpful, and adopted. Some of these which are still sung are: "O God, Our Help" (From the Wesley Collection); "God Moves in a Mysterious Way," by Cowper; "Joy to the World," and "Sweet Is the Work," by Isaac Watts. Lyric lines from such hymns are akin to the psalms in soul-lifting quality. To illustrate: O God, our help in ages past, Our hope for years to come, Our shelter from the stormy blast, And our eternal home. God moves in a mysterious way, His wonders to perform; He plants his footsteps in the sea, And rides upon the storm. Note the majesty and strength in these simple lines, just given. Feel also the spiritual lift of the following lines: Joy to the world! The Lord will come And earth receive her King: Let every heart prepare Him room, And saints and angels sing. Latter-day Saints, in common with other God-loving folk, could sing with responsive hearts such songs. 'There was need, however, for something even closer to the meaning and spirit of the newly restored gospel for the satisfaction of their inmost need. Nor was this something long in coming. Again we turn to Parley P. Pratt as a pioneer in the creation of distinctively Latter-day Saint hymns. In his Voice of Warning, which, as has been said, is poetic prose, he occasionally would express his thoughts in verse, as he did at the opening of his section on the Book of Mormon: Lo! From the opening heavens, in bright array, 849 An angel comes—to earth he bends his way; Reveals to man, in power, as at the first, The fulness of the Gospel long since lost. It was not long before this missionary poet was also creating hymns of classic cast—songs still dear to our people, and often sung. They are vibrant with the spirit of the restoration—and filled with truth. For example: The morning breaks, the shadows flee; Lo! Zion's standard is unfurled, The dawning of a brighter day Majestic rises on the world. The above stirring lines and others in the hymn, set to music by another master, George Careless, as well as those that follow from the inspired pen of Parley P. Pratt, rank with the finest of religious lyrics: Come, O Thou King of Kings, We've waited long for thee, With healing in Thy wings, To set Thy people free.... Come, make an end to sin, And cleanse the earth by fire, And righteousness bring in, That saints may tune the lyre.... No need is here to quote at length from the songs which have become so much a part of us. Mere giving of an opening line will set a Latterday Saint congregation ready to sing the hymns dear to our hearts. And sing they must to get the full beauty of the lyric lines. Singing is just a more beautiful way of reading. Through a song one lingers on expressive words. Yet this also should be remembered: One can sing a song soulfully only when one can read the song aloud expressively. Try it. As the epic rise of the Church continued, lyrics expressive of the emotional high points of the 850 retoration naturally were created.
Many songs are the heart throbs of
history, created when feeling was
high, or during ecstatic remembrance
of stirring events. An example
of the latter is the loved lyric, Joseph
Smith's First Prayer," written
in after years by George Manwaring.
Sweet sincerity, beautiful pictures,
and an impressive message are
in its rhythmic lines, a few of which
follow:
O how lovely was the morning
Radiant beamed the sun above.
Bees were humming, sweet birds singing,
Music ringing through the grove.
When within the shady woodland,
Joseph sought the God of love.
Suddenly a light descended.
Brighter far than noon-day sun.
And a shining, glorious pillar
O'er him fell, around him shone,
While appeared two heav’nly beings, God the father and the Son. 
"An Angel from on High," of
earlier creation, by Parley P. Pratt,
sings of another event of deep significance,
in such lines as these:
An angel from on high, the long, long silence
broke;
Descending from the sky. These gracious
words he spoke:
"Lo, in Cumorah's lonely hill, a Sacred
record lies concealed;
Sealed by Moroni's hand. It has for ages
To wait the Lord's command. From dust
to speak again.
Still another, created by one of
the great song writers of the Church,
William W. Phelps, just after the
martyrdom, keeps Joseph Smith in
vivid, sacred remembrance, with
flaming lyric lines, expressive of
courage, and prophetic. The opening
stanza and the chorus of this classic
song follow:
Praise to the man who communed with
Jehovah! Jesus anointed that Prophet and Seer,
Blessed to open the last dispensation;
Kings shall extol Him and nation's re-
Hail to the Prophet, ascended to heaven!
Traitors and tyrants now fight him in
vain;
Mingling with Gods, he can plan for his
Death cannot conquer the hero again.
Another splendid hymn by William
W. Phelps, vibrant with the
spirit of the restoration, begins with
these lifting lines:
The Spirit of God like a fire is burning!
The latter day glory begins to come forth;
The visions and blessings of old arc returning,
And angels are coming to visit the earth.
We'll sing and we’ll shout with the armies
Hosanna, hosanna to God and the Lamb.
Let glory to them in the highest be given.
Henceforth and forever; amen and amen!
Readers of this lesson will probably
recognize that a dominant
characteristic of these earlier expressions
is a distinctive lyric quality.
Little did actism, or sermonizing, is
in the lines. The lyrics mentioned
above sing the gospel of the latter
days. Its light and truth newly revealed
brought joy and gladness. In
them one feels the conviction of the
poet in the reality that God lives and
Jesus is the Christ.
Out of the lengthened years of
darkness, doubt, dissension among
the multiplying creeds, God again
had spoken; his Son Jesus Christ
had come again in person to re-establish
his work in purity, simplicity,
and power on the earth. Those of
poetic skill expressed these truths
with fervor and devotion. In doing so they left us all a rich heritage of lyric literature. LESSON DEPARTMENT  Nor was it men alone who voiced with true emotion, with beauty and clarity, the feelings and thoughts that lifted their souls. Gifted women of the Church likewise created lyrics. Among these was Eliza R. Snow, whose life links with not only the period of the restoration but with the after stirring years. One of the most loved of her poems is "O My Father—a "prayer perfect"—in its artistry of lyric expression. It carries also one of the sweetest, most divine tributes to mothers ever expressed. I had learned to call Thee Father, Thro' Thy spirit from on high; But until the Key of Knowledge Was restored, I knew not why. In the heav'ns are parents single? No; the thought makes reason stare Truth is reason, truth eternal Tells me I've a mother there. When I leave this frail existence, When I lay this mortal by, Father, Mother, may I meet you In your royal courts on high? Then, at length, when I've completed All you sent me forth to do, With your mutual approbation, Let me come and dwell with you. Here is precious truth given under inspiration for not only Latter-day Saints but for all the world. In this brief study, we have been able only to open the door to treasures. It is hoped that those who participate in the lesson will be intrigued to search for and enjoy more of the songs that make the restoration live again. Indeed the members of the Relief Society have been doing just this through the years. May the writer, with this closing word, pay tribute to those of this 851 great organization who chose the Relief Society Songs. This hymnal, if such it may be called, contains a precious selection of uplifting religious lyrics. Congratulations also are due this splendid society for the forward-looking creation of the "Singing Mothers." It is an inspirational example for all the world. Studies and Activities 1. A. What is a lyric? How does it differ from didactic poetry? B. Why may the psalms and the carols generally be classified as lyrics? 2. What are the characteristics of the earlier lyrics or songs created by members of our Church? Illustrate. 3. Make a brief comparative study of "Come, O Thou King of Kings," by Parley P. Pratt, and "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning," by W. W. Phelps. In what basic respect are they alike? How do they differ? 4. Discuss briefly the statement that "singing is a more beautiful way of reading." 'Take some stanza of a song; as, "O My Father;" "Jesus Once of Humble Birth"; "Joseph Smith's First Prayer," "Praise to the Man"; "Rest, Rest on the Hillside, Rest"; or another of your choice, read it aloud, then sing it, noting the difference. 5. Be ready to join with the class in expressive singing of some song that expresses the joy of the restoration of the gospel. References Pyper, George D., Stories of Latter-day Saint Hymns, 1939. Relief Society Songs. Latter-day Saint Hymns. Some study of the background of the poets named may be helpful in understanding their preparation for poetic expression. For this the Comprehensive History of the Church by B. H. Roberts, or Historical Record, by Andrew Jensen will be helpful. Note: Keep the study within the general theme of the restoration. 

 —DECEMBER 1948