[Vol35 | December 1948 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Theology A Period of Colton]

Page 840 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 14—"A Period of Darkening Opposition" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 22, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, March 1, 1949 Objective: To acquaint class members with the events of the Savior's life during the time he was Preparing the apostles for their final great responsibilities. Note: All quotations which are not followed by references are taken from the text Jesus the Christ. UR Lord had spent two years in the great work of his ministry during which he had received considerable popular acclaim. The plain people heard him gladly. There was a turning against him that boded ill during the third year. That was the sifting period when those who really believed would be separated from the "luke-warm" and those who were openly opposed. Spies had been watching him closely both in Galilee and Jerusalem. Ceremonial Washings "And Many Such Like Things" Jesus began detailed instructions to the apostles. He wanted them to be prepared to carry on after his foreknown death. They were yet to make a great change in discarding the rabbinical forms and ceremonies of the Jews and to go wholly to the plain, but glorious requirements of the gospel of the kingdom. Already, with the approval of the Lord, they had so far transgressed "the tradition of the elders" as to omit the practice of ceremonial cleansing of hands before eating. They were ignoring customs that had become rabbinical laws. It should be remembered that "the offense charged against. The disciples was that of ceremonial uncleanliness, not physical uncleanliness or disregard of sanitary propriety." Not because they had soiled hands, were they criticized, but because they did not perform the ceremony. When this criticism was made, Jesus replied by asking a question, "Why do ye also transgress the commandment of God by your tradition?" He called them hypocrites and cited Isaiah's prophecy, "... This people honoureth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me" (Mark 7:6). To prove his accusation he cited the commandment of God, "Honor thy father and thy mother." Moses had even proclaimed death to him "that curseth his father, or his mother" (Ex. 21:17), The law requiring a son to assist needy parents had been so changed Page 841 CHRIST HEALING THE SICK Page 842 A Perry Picture From a Painting by Schonherr LESSON DEPARTMENT that a wicked or ungrateful son could
escape responsibility by declaring a thing required by parents to be '*corban"—
something intended as a gift
to God. (Read Mark 7:11.) The
undutiful son had a lifetime to make
the gift. In other words, these unauthorized
changes made the word
of God noneffective. "They were
straining at a gnat and swallowing a
camel."
In this day the members of the
Church are taught the same fundamental
law of honoring one's father
and mother and caring for one's relatives.
A fundamental concept of
the great Church Welfare Plan is to
provide for one's own. Present-day
Church leaders have pointed out,
quoting words of the Savior, the duty
of children to parents, of husband to
wife, of parents to children, concerning
adult children, and the position
of widows, orphans, and the poor.
No Church member in this day can
excuse himself as not having been
taught to care for his own insofar as
it is possible to do so (See “Fundamentals of the Church Welfare Plan,” Pres. J. Reuben Clark, Jr.,
General Conference, October 6,
1944-)
Leaving those who were trying to
trap him, Jesus called the people together
and taught them a great
truth:
. . . Hearken unto me every one of you,
and understand: There is nothing from
without a man, that entering into him can
defile him: but the things which come
out of him, those are they that defile the
man. If any man have ears to hear, let
him hear (Mark 7:14-16).
This announcement came in direct
conflict with the rabbinical
teachings of the day. The Pharisees
took offense. Their rule was not
only to wash the hands, but also to
clean them by ritual. Jesus explained
that the food taken into the body
remained only for a time. It was that
which came from the mouth which
defiled. Out of the heart proceed
evil thoughts and all manner of
crimes. ''As we think, so we are."
There was to be no compromise
between the teachings of the Lord
and corrupt Judaism. Jesus could
only state his doctrine and let the
consequences follow. When principle
is involved, there can be no
compromise.
Within the Borders of
Tyre and Sidon
Jesus, evidently seeking seclusion
where he might instruct the Twelve,
decided to go north into the country
known as Phoenicia. But, in the
language of one of the disciples, his
presence "could not be hid." There
were people in the region of Tyre
and Sidon who had heard him speak
and knew of his fame. The Canaanites
were held in particular disrepute.
However, one woman of that tribe
came to the Master and said, ". . .
Have mercy on me, O Lord, thou
Son of David; my daughter is grievously
vexed with a devil." By the
manner of her address she clearly
showed her faith in the Messiah. She
continued her pleadings until the
disciples asked him to send her
away. Her earnest cry, "... Lord,
help me," and the faith and persistence
she manifested, touched the
Savior and he said unto her, ". . . O
woman, great is thy faith: be it unto
thee even as thou wilt. And her
daughter was made whole from that very hour” (Matt. 15:22-28). (It is recommended that class members read also Mark 7:24-30.) 844 Some wonder why the Lord delayed granting the request of the woman. Well, we do not always know God's ways. We do know that the woman's faith was proved and it was a great lesson to the disciples. The blessings of the Christ were for all who had faith. 'They were not to be confined to the children of Israel. After Jesus left Tyre and Sidon, he traveled for some days among people who were not Jews. Wherever he went he healed the lame, blind, and maimed. When they saw. The mighty works, the gentiles glorified the God of Israel. In one particular instance, the people asked the Lord to lay his hands upon a man who was deaf and defective in speech. Jesus led the man away from the crowd, then put his hands in the man's ears and touched his tongue. "And straightway his ears were opened, and the string of his tongue was loosed, and he spake plain" (Mark 7:35). | Another Meal in the Desert On this trip Jesus again fed a large group of people—four thousand men, besides the women and children. These people were hungry and away from home. The disciples had only seven loaves and a few little fishes but the people were fed abundantly, as in the case of the prior miracle. (Read Matt. 15:32- 38.) Again Beset by Sign-Seekers When he could not find seclusion elsewhere, the Lord took his disciples for another trip on the Sea of Galilee and gave them some profound instructions. He warned them against the false attitude and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1948 doctrines of the Pharisees and Sadducees. 'These two ordinarily discordant parties were united in their opposition to the truth. So often that is found. The most frequent trick of the adversary is to ask for a sign. When these wicked people asked Jesus for a sign he refused with a sharp rebuke: A wicked and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given unto it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas (Matt. 16:1-4). "Thou Art the Christ" The writer of these lessons has purposely cut short the consideration of other topics in this chapter to give somewhat detailed study to one particular incident recorded in chapter 16 of Matthew. "When Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?" Mark well the question which was really the subject of the conversation. He wanted them to know once and for all who he was. They reported to him the rumors, ".,. Some say that thou art John the Baptist: some, Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets." The people seemed to have no intimation that he was the Messiah. In the eyes of the people he had not measured up to their expectations of a great deliverer and king. To many, signs had been given, but he had rejected their offer to crown him king of Israel.. Then to the Twelve, to whom had been given special training and preparation, he propounded the question, "But whom say ye that I am?" Peter answered for the group, "... Thou art the Christ, the LESSON DEPARTMENT 845 
Son of the living God/' That was
a solemn testimony— a positive
knowledge. ''And Jesus answered
and said unto him^ Blessed art thou,
Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood
hath not revealed it unto thee, but
my Father which is in heaven."
Then Jesus added, ''And I say also
unto thee, That thou art Peter, and
upon this rock I will build my
church; and the gates of hell shall
not prevail against it" (Matt. 16:
13-18). Did he mean that he was
going to build his church upon Peter
or any other man? The Lord was
referring to his own Church. Was it
then to be given to a man? No, that
would make it man's church.
"Through direct revelation from
God, Peter knew that Jesus was
the Christ; and upon revelation, as
a rock of secure foundation, the
Church of Christ was to be built."
A Church built upon that revelation
is secure as a rock and the powers or
"gates of hell" can never prevail
against it as long as it is so led and
guided. With due respect, any
church built upon Peter would be
Peter's church and not the Church
of Jesus Christ. By revelation alone
can his Church be builded and maintained.
Reference is made to Matthew
And I will give unto thee the keys of
the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever
thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound
in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt loose
on earth shall be loosed in heaven.
These keys were authority to act
for God. They were given to the
Twelve Apostles. What church upon
the earth today claims authority
for its presidency and apostleship to
bind on earth and it shall be bound
in heaven? Did the Lord give useless
keys that were not to be used?
The answer can only be given in the
negative. To the Church of Jesus
Christ in this day have been given
the same keys of authority as arc being
used almost every day in the
temples of God.
Questions and Suggestions
Discussion
1. Discuss the changes the rabbis had
made in the law: "Honour thy father and
thy mother.” 2. Relate the incident of the healing of the daughter of the woman of Canaan.
3. Discuss the promise of the Lord that
he would build his Church upon the rock
of revelation.