Page 814
Priscilla L. Evans and Florence G. Smith Released from the General Board
IT is with keen regret and with an appreciation for the fine work done by Priscilla L. Evans and Florence G. Smith on the general board of Relief Society, that the general board has accepted the requests made by these sisters that they be released. Sister Evans' resignation became effective as of October 15, 1948, and Sister Smith's on October 20, 1948.
Sister Evans was appointed to the general board in June 1941 during the administration of President Amy Brown Lyman. She came endowed with unusual creative ability and was qualified by training to give outstanding service in matters pertaining to legal questions. From her previous position as mission Relief Society president of the Eastern States Mission she also brought to her position an understanding of Relief Society work, with particular insight into the needs and requirements of mission Relief Societies. She has fulfilled the manifold requirements devolving upon her as a member of the general board with distinction. Sister Evans will be long remembered as the creator and writer of the March 1947 Sunday night Radio Society program "A Story in Granite and Bronze," as well as for her co-operation in writing and impressive delivery of "From the Shadow of a Dream to the Sunlight of Promise" which recognized the stakes and missions in the Building Fund Program at the recent annual general Relief Society conference. She has also served Relief Society members and friends and recognition for herself and the organization during the past nine years through holding the position of corresponding secretary of the National Council of Women.
While Sister Evans has found it advisable to be relieved of the pressing and exacting duties of general board work, she will no doubt continue to give freely of her great ability and talents, as she may be called upon, both to her Church and State to which she has always been so generous in rendering outstanding service in the past.
SISTER Florence G. Smith was called to the general board in November 1946 during the administration of President Belle S. Spafford. She brought to her general board duties an understanding of Relief Society work growing out of many years' experience in presiding over the Relief Societies of the South African, California, and Northwestern States Missions. This service has made Sister Smith very cognizant of the differing conditions under which Relief Society functions in various parts of the world. In carrying out her general board assignment, she has manifested a willingness to serve and an appreciation of the opportunity to serve, coupled with a gentleness of spirit and a love for the women of the Church. Her services will remain to bless Relief Society.
She has now been called to serve as matron of the Bee Hive House for young women, an appointment which will be quite exacting but to which she will bring her wholehearted attention and splendid gifts of graciousness.
Page 815
  —DECEMBER 1948 young women whom Sister Smith will supervise will come increasingly grateful acknowledgment for the spirit of understanding and helpfulness which she possesses in a marked degree. The general board is confident that Sister Smith will find continued joy and satisfaction in her new calling and will be greatly blessed by the Lord.