HER VACATION. 305 is, what shall I do with this money? Perhaps I would better give it to poor, struggling cousin Ralph, but no, he said, only the other day, that money would make him miserable, and I guess it would, it has made me. I might give it to some charitable institution build a modest home for old friendless maids? No, I won't do that; if the. silly things, like myself, have neglected to make for themselves friends, they deserve to be friendless. And as for being lonely, I think most of us have had one chance, only we neglected to sieze it. So I think, after all, that we deserve our fate; and, after all, it is still bearable. And I really know of a number of old maids who are a blessing in the community. Am I one of them?" With a guilty shake of the head, she sat musing again a while. Then she suddenly arose. "No, I will not give it away. I'll enjoy it, enjoy it to the fullest extent, myself. That's why it was sent to me. Perhaps God sends me this in answer to all my prayers in my younger days, when I wanted to find a vocation, when I longed to become something in the world. He has seen my patient toiling, weary plodding, and this is my reward. All the things I wanted in my youth I can have now. I can travel, and I will. I can have beautiful clothes, and I will." She walked over to the mirror and surveyed herself. 'T can still be beautiful if I have the price, and I have, and so I will be beautiful." She shook out her long, dark hair, already streaked with grey; looked at the tell-tale crows-feet about the eyes, the still worse lines about the neck, and the downward tendencies of the corners of the mouth. "Ah, I can darken this hair easily; diligent massage will help the wrinkles and the mouth — well I can smile now, plenty of smiling will bring those drooping corners up again, and I can afford to smile now, to be sure, and smile I will and be handsome, for you can't enjoy life unless you're handsome; young and handsome, of course. And I can still fool people as to my age, if I can't fool Father Time. Oh, I’m glad it isn't too late yet, glad, glad! Look, Fm already five years younger, what will I be when I’ve smiled constantly a year or so and adorned myself becomingly?" Helen went to bed feeling very differently to what she had felt for many years, fully determined to be happy ever after, never suspecting that selfish people are never happy. She went to sleep with a vision of the wonderful things she would have. She could have flowers now, they had always been her delight plenty of flowers, ah, every conceivable kind. In fact, she would go to a land of flowers and just live with flowers and beautiful things and congenial people. Accordingly she went. And when she had feasted her eyes 
 and her hungry heart till she was satisfied, on the gorgeous flowers, wonderful shrubbery and stately palms of California for six months, she came back to her native city, weary and sadder than she had ever been in the days of her poverty. There was no one to meet her when she returned, for no one had known that she was absent, save an old maiden aunt, who was cross and hard to please. They two were the only near relatives left of their family. Helen stood by her mirror once more, the evening of her home-coming and smiled bitterly at the image which met her gaze. "Poor, foolish girl, you thought you could beguile yourself and others into thinking you young once more; but you counted without your wrinkled old face and your wrinkled old soul. And so you have come back a wiser, if not a very much better, woman than you went away. No, the fortune came too late. "And now, the best and only thing is to find my vocation, if that isn't too late, also, and try to find, at least contentment, for there is no real happiness in this world, after all. "If Aunt Maria wasn't so miserable and disagreeable, I might take her to my heart and nurse her in her old age, but the only pleasant thing about her is her love of flowers. No, I couldn't endure it, that's out of the question, though she hinted pretty broadly about her loneliness, when she heard I had the money. But, of course, I can make her some small monthly allowance, and that I will. "I wonder what one's vocation might really be? In my youth, I used to love to tell stories to children, and I even dreamed once that I might become a story writer, but that's out of the question now. I think I shall go into the flower business, and see what I can do at that. Flowers at least are grateful for a little care; they are like children. And since I have no children, I shall bestow all the pent-up mother love in my withered old breast on flowers — that sounds well, something like old times, when I used to delight in turning pretty phrases: Shows that there is still a spark of the old fire left; it might be kindled into a nice little flame yet. Well, we shall see what tomorrow brings." She was in the habit of saying her prayers, but tonight she went to bed without doing so. She felt a cetrain vague resentment towards Providence for having sent her this fortune so late in life. She felt that she was not grateful, so would not make a pretense at it, so she told herself. What good was money anyway, or life, for that matter? Hers had been so lonely, so empty. The still, little voice that whispered ever so faintly the reason why her life was lonely was unheeded. As for the money, she had been happier without it; more content in her work. "How foolish they are who long for money," she thought HER VACATION. 307 with a tinge of contempt, "they don't know how little it amounts to after they get it. No, it had come too late, at least for her." The next afternoon found her down town at a florist's, looking about and asking different questions as ^;o retail prices of certain plants of which she had already found out the wholesale prices in California, and as she could not well go without buying something, she filled her hands with a generous bouquet of spring flowers, fragrant and beautiful. She decided to take them to her aunt and gladden her old heart. But the old lady had taken an afternoon off and Helen stood on her aunt's doorstep, disappointed and tired, for she had walked all the way in order to enjoy the fresh, green lawns and the budding flowers. She felt cross and irritated. Why on earth couldn't the old lady have stayed at home today of all days? She was always complaining that no one ever came to see her and that she never went to see anybody. Helen slammed the gate, as she went out and stood gazing about her with anything but a pleasant expression, which made her look five years older, had she but known it. She decided to take the car on the next corner, and on the way she passed the magnificent new L. D. S. hospital. She looked at its grey massive walls and thought of the many sufferers it contained, some perhaps anxiously waiting for death and others fervently praying for life. Yes, that was certainly one thing she had forgotten last night — her splendid health. That was worth being grateful for. Now, if she had known someone inside those walls she might have gone in and perhaps made someone glad with these flowers. Suppose she should go anyway? Slowly she retraced her steps back to the entrance. She ascended the broad stone steps and stood hesitatingly in the vestibule. Others were going in all the time, so it must be visiting time. A man in uniform came forward and asked whom she had come to see. Why, she wanted to see an old lady, but had forgotten her name. Did she know on what division she was, or what her trouble was? No, she did not. How long had she been there? Helen could not say exactly how long. The man shook his head and Helen felt rather foolish, and wished she had not come. Just then, one of the nurses, who had been seeing a visitor to the door, turned and came forward. She had evidently heard the conversation, for she asked in a kindly manner if she could be of any assistance. 'T wonder if it isn't old Mrs. Brown, she is a T. B. patient," to the man. Then to Helen: "She is on the fifth floor, but if you'll follow me, I will take you to her. Has she been there a long time?" Helen was sure she had been there quite 
 a longtime, though she did not know how they counted time in the hospital. "She will he glad to see you," continued the nurse; "she has so few friends seemingly. I think her relatives live in the country at quite a distance." Helen thought so, too. She was now certain, she said, that that was the lady she wanted. She followed the nurse up the broad stairways, through the seeming airy corridors, where patients in the convalescent stage reclined in easy chairs in more or less elaborate kimonos and coquettish caps. They were chatting cheerfully, happily. No doubt life looked brighter, more beautiful to them than ever before, now that they might take up its burdens again with the prospects of better health. The nurse had a smile and a kindly word for each, and Helen was wondering whether she had not missed her vocation by not becoming a nurse, as she saw the responsive smiles on all sides. Still they kept on climbing. Now they were on the fifth floor and she followed her white-dressed guide past the different rooms, where scores of patients were lying on their snowy beds, some with hopeful faces, talking to visiting friends, others in utter abandon of suffering with contorted features. Something swelled in Helen's throat, and her eyes grew dim. She took out her handkerchief and just then she brushed by a woman with a tear-stained face, who had just taken leave of someone in an invalid chair. Helen wiped away a tear and, looking up, she saw a little boy, — perhaps ten or twelve years old — with head bandaged and minus his right arm and leg. He had such a pathetic little smile on his thin, pale face, as he watched the retreating figure, evidently his mother. The brave little smile told how hard he tried to show mother that he wanted to bear his misfortune like a man, and the twitching corners of the mouth told how hard it was. Helen took out a handful of flowers and laid them in his lap, as she hurried past him. Then the nurse opened a door and ushered her into a cozy little room, where an old lady was bending herself double, trying to read a book she had great difficulty in keeping on her knees, and it fell to the floor with a crash, as the visitor entered and the wondering old eyes looked up, as she slowly tried to straighten up from her bent position. Helen held out her hand and told the patient she had come to see her and had brought her some flowers. Then Helen thanked the nurse and told her that this was the lady she wanted. The patient was very much surprised and pleased, but said she couldn't remember her and wanted to know if she had just come from the fields, there was such a lovely smell of flowers about her. Helen showed her the flowers again, and told her how she had come there. Then she picked up the book, which proved to be the Bible, and offered to read to her. The old lady was overjoyed, and Helen read and HER VACATION. 309 afterwards talked to her: told her of the beautiful country she had just visited, where there are always flowers in bloom and never any winter. The old lady listened with a child-like expression of wonder and urged her to tell on. "God must have sent you, dear sister," she said, "for I told him today how poor and lonely I was, and that everybody seemed to have forgotten me. Oh, it's so lonely, sister," and the poor old face dropped down to the handkerchief in her hands which she had not lifted from her knees. Helen took the trembling hands and promised that she would not feel so lonely again, for she would come often, and visit her. Arranging the flowers in two glasses and placing them where the patient could see them all the time, Helen took leave, followed by the old lady's tearful gratitude and blessings. As she passed the room outside in which the little boy had sat, Helen peeped in, yes, there he was; the back of his chair had been lowered and he was reclining at full length, her flowers still in his hand. She entered and advanced to the boy and asked with all the sympathy her heart felt for him, how he was. "Better," he said wearily, as if he was tired of being asked. She stood a moment helplessly and looked at him. "You like story-books?" seeing several about him. "Sure, I do!" Then with a sudden thought, 'can't you tell me a story?" "Indeed, I can, and will. It is too late, today, but I will come tomorrow at three o'clock sharp and bring you a picture-book and then I'll tell you stories." The boy's face shone. "Sure, now?" "Sure!" The other patients had become interested. Helen must say a word or two to them, and in her heart she resolved that they should all have flowers on the morrow. Then she patted the boy's hand; his face resumed its weary look. Poor little fellow. To have to go through life with only half a body. Oh, the pity, the sadness of it. when he should come to realize what that would mean. Helen left the hospital treading on air, she smiled on everybody, and they were genuine, heartfelt smiles. As she turned to catch the car, it seemed to her as if she, too, had left some disagreeable complaint in the hospital; and that life hereafter would look better and brighter to her. "I have found my vocation, I have found my vocation," was the song within her, as the car rumbled on. She had to hum a tune, quite low, something she had not done for years. When she reached home, she threw off her wraps, and just sat down and cried, cried for very joy. Could anyone have imagined that there was so much joy in doing a little good. Afterwards she brought out her account book and went over 
 it item my item. She frowned at the sums she had spent in her foolish pleasure-hunt. She would give up the idea of a store, now, but she would have a flower garden and Aunt Maria should help her raise flowers. Yes, she would take her old aunt to live with her and they two would go about distributing flowers: her aunt should share in the pleasure as well as the toil. It was a different Helen Andrews who went to bed that night to the one who had gotten up that morning. She lay till long after the midnight hour had struck, planning how best to arrange her life so as to make the most of what might be left to her. And that boy — ah, she must tell him what a splendid man he could still make of himself in spite of his misfortune, and she must never lose sight of him. Oh, what a blessing that little fortune would be after all! For with it she could bless and serve others — and that, after all, is the only true and lasting happiness. "Thanks, dear Lord, it came just in time. Just in time!" she whispered sleepily. And the Angel of Peace spread his wings over the sleeper. EMPLOYMENT BUREAU AT PRESIDING BISHOP'S OFFICE. Mothers, daughters, or granddaughters should know of the Bureau of Employment which has been established in this city, in the office of the Presiding Bishopric. Elder Frank Penrose meets every train of emigrants, and locates all of them in temporary quarters on their arrival in Utah. He also finds work for men, women, and girls, who apply to him, as well as supplying help to those who require his services. We suggest to all of our Relief Society members that they do net allow their young daughters to come to the city for employment without bringing a letter to the Presiding Bishop's Office, signed by the mother or guardian of the girl who wishes to obtain work, giving the home address of the person wanting work. Instruct your girls to go at once to the Presiding Bishop's Office, and register, Elder Penrose will then look after further details. No charge is made for this help.