Amen." Home Department. . By Janette J. Hyde. In presenting the articles which will appear in the Home Department of our magazine, we have more especially in mind the many women of our Society who have not the opportunity of consulting professional architects and builders. We hope to cover, eventually, every practical phase of home building, and home-making. Not only shall we present plans for new buildings, but we will also take up new and inexpensive contrivances and improvements, which will be found suitable and feasible to introduce into any of our Relief Society halls or dwelling houses, already builded. In all of these, we will consider the very best methods and materials to be used in their preparation. We have secured the assistance of Architect Don C. Young, Jr., feeling that our sisters and patrons are entitled to the very best professional advice we can secure. "Gardening," which was one of our home departments, has been so successful, that we are more determined than ever to continue along the lines of this work. We have received most flattering reports from almost every stake in Zion, with regard to the success of our Home Garden Lessons. So much were they enthused and so hard have they worked, that thousands of flowers were raised, both for selling and free distribution among the people. Some of our sisters of Canada have gone quite extensively into the raising of flowers. They feel deeply the inspiration of the new Temple, and what that brings to them all. and they realize the importance of associating their beautifying gardening work with the grounds surrounding that sacred edifice. To this end they have established hot-beds, and will make a bower of loveliness, in time, about the Temple. Several calls have come recently to the General Board for plans for new Relief Society halls. In the two plans we present here, the architect has endeavored to combine simplicity of purpose. economy in expenditure, and suitability to all requirements. SCHEME NO. 1. Scheme No. 1 is worked out with the homelike feeling that is found only in the modern bungalow. The style of the building is strictly modern and up-to-date, and is well suited for a broad lot, or a narrow piece of ground, and would fit well on a corner lot. The artistic groupings of the windows, together with the attached flower-boxes, renders the design very attractive and inviting. Materials. The main walls may be constructed of wood covered with selected shingles, or the shingles may be replaced with HOME DEPARTMENT. 313 metal lath and cement plaster having a pebble-dash finish. However, it is recommended that the walls be of brick laid up with a large open joint, giving a rustic appearance to the building. The base is of cement concrete, having a rough and uniform finish which should be done in the forms. The front steps are also to be constructed in cement. The roof is of simple construction suitable to any locality, the weathering to be of wooden shingles, which may be painted a moss-green to add to the color scheme. Interior. The general arrangement of the inside is well studied out, having two entrances, one in front and another at the rear which opens into the kitchen or serving room. The main entrance leads into a reception hall where coats, hats, overshoes, etc., may be removed before entering the main building. At the rear of the entrance hall, may be found ample toilet accommodations. The main work room is 30x16 feet, and is entered directly from the entrance hall through a large double door. This room is well lighted on three sides, having a large old-fashioned fireplace on the further side from the entrance, all of which tends to make the room a very cheerful one. The finish of doors and windows is of plain design, done with natural wood finish. The plaster of walls to be done in a rough sand finish, while the ceiling may have a white hard finish. The floors may be of Oregon fir, flooded with oil and well varnished. At the rear of the main work room there is provided a well equipped buffet kitchen and a good-sized store room provided with ample shelving. The store room can be entered either from the work room or from the kitchen, and will be found very convenient for storing sewing machines and other working paraphernalia. In the kitchen is located a cooler which would take the place of a refrigerator in winter. The building can be provided with a cellar under the rear in which a heating plant could be installed, if so desired. Cost. This scheme. No. 1, is designed to meet the requirements of the smaller towns and villages. Its cubical contents is about 17,000, which would make the cost, for its erection under the most favorable circumstances, from fifteen to seventeen hundred dollars. SCHEME NO. 2. This scheme does not have the homelike appearance that is found in scheme No. 1. It is somewhat larger than scheme No. 1, and has more of an ecclesiastical feeling. The style employed in this scheme is after the colonial order of architecture. Material. The main walls may be constructed either of red brick laid up in a large open joint, or it may be done in stucco on brick or wood with metal lath. The foundation is to be of cement concrete, with a rough, even finish for that part above the ground. The roof in this scheme is also of simple construction with the weathering of wooden shingles, as in the other scheme. The front steps are also of cement. The main entrance is very large and inviting, being placed in the center of the front facade and leads directly through the main hall into the work room. At the right is to be found the secretary's office, while a cloak room occupies the same part of the front of the building at the left. Here also is found ample toilet accommodation. The toilet room is well ventilated with a separate flue, running to the roof. The main work room has a special treatment in the ceiling which is slightly vaulted and springs from stucco moulded cornices on each side of the room. The room is well lighted with properly proportioned windows, trimmed with a plain red gum architrave, finished in Circassian walnut which gives to the room a feeling of welcome and good cheer. As in the other scheme, there is provided a buffet kitchen and store room at the rear of the building. The arrangement of these two rooms is similar to the ones already described. The heating plant, if desired, would be located in the basement, which is under the kitchen and store room. The cubical contents of this scheme is 34.500 feet; and, under the most favorable circumstances, would therefore cost from thirty-five hundred to four thousand dollars. The General Board have decided to organize a Home Committee to carry on the work here suggested, and to take up classes in Home Science, Home Art and Rural Improvement. The Committee will have the endorsement and assistance of Dr. John A. Widtsoe, head of the A. C. U., and his corps of trained experts in the Extension work of that school. Any inquiries or questions concerning home-making and homebuilding can be addressed to Home Department, and we will be pleased to answer.