Nursing in the Relief Society. The systematic and properly regulated methods now used in our Relief Society Nurse School is but the outgrowth of the heavenly ministrations inaugurated by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and carried forward in Nauvoo under the charge of his kindly and big-hearted wife, Emma Hale Smith, who was the first president of this Society. She was assisted in this work by such noble and lofty women as Mary Fielding Smith, and Mercy R. Thompson, Eliza R. Snow Smith, Mother Whitney, Marinda and Mary Ann Hyde, Elvira Cowles and Sarah M. Kimball. The Prophet Joseph Smith laid his hands on these womens' heads and set them apart to go about among the sick and minister to their wants. Directly after the saints reached these valleys, the need of trained women nurses was felt. And the quick sympathy of Doctor and President Willard Richards moved him to establish a "Council of Health," in 1849, in his own home, near where the Deseret News Building now stands. Think of it. you moderns, a "Council of Health!" He taught a class of young women in his own small home, such famous women as Zina D. Young, Prescinda H. Kimball, Emmeline B. Wells, and Susannah Liptrot Richards, wife of the doctor, belonging to this pioneer nurse class. Mrs. Richards was a graduate nurse from England, and taught the class when the doctor could not be present. Our own beloved President, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, carried her baby Isabel in her arms to attend this class, and "Aunt Em" is perhaps the only surviving member of the original Nurse School in this Church. The work going forward now, therefore, is but a modern development of those early efforts. "There were giants in those days." Sister Zina D. Young gave nurse class lectures in the old Exponent office, during the year, 1875, and following years. Our skeleton now used in our Relief Society Nurse Class was purchased by the Relief Society in that early day, and "Aunt Em" laughingly recalls how people stared and wondered how she could stay nights with the gruesome thing in the office. Most of our readers are familiar with the fact that semi-professional training of nurses for Relief Society purposes was undertaken about fifteen years ago. Dr. Romania B. Penrose was the first graduated "Mormon" physician, she having studied in the Woman's College of Physicians and Surgeons, in Philadelphia. She graduated in 1877, and immediately on her return to Utah, she opened a class in obstetrics and nursing, and taught one each year thereafter. The Deseret Hospital, which was the pioneer Utah NURSING IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 317 hospital, was opened on 5th East, in 1882. In 1887, Dr. Penrose was made resident physician of the hospital, where she continued until 1893. Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, who graduated later than Dr. Penrose, both came home, and established private classes for obstetrics and nursing, on their return to Utah. In 1900, the Relief Society Nurse School was organized and since that date, women have been given a season's class work in the fundamentals of nursing. The Deseret Hospital has graduated professional nurses since their opening, in 1905, and such nurses take a three years' course in that magnificent institution on the hillside. This, of course, prepares them to meet all of the complications and emergencies of their professional careers; while our Relief Society nurses are trained rather for the simpler cases of home nursing, and district visiting, which, after all, are the more important because they are the more frequent. The nurses thus technically prepared are perhaps more skillful, and the work is now more systematically engaged in than in our Pioneer days, yet with no more loving care nor generous solicitude. Perhaps not as much faith is manifested today, as was manifested by the devoted women who gave their services in our pioneer communities, because they were needed and worked with little training, no money, and no thought of reward. In the last fifteen years, the Relief Society Nurse School has had three teachers — Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, who opened the class work; Dr. Romania B. Penrose, and Dr. Ellis R. Shipp who taught one year in the school, in 1907, graduating thirty-three well equipped nurses, all of whom passed the State Board of Examination and most, if not all, of whom are in the field today doing good work. The following article by Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings, and the note which follows, were furnished at the request of the editor of the Magazine: The Relief Society School of 1915. By Priscilla P. Jennings. The Relief Society Nurses have just completed their course for 1915. It has been a very successful class. Dr. M. C. Roberts — their instructor — has spared no pains in training them in the essentials for a nurse, and has given them many advantages by having efficient doctors lecture to them. She has put them in a way to make good use of their knowledge, and to make fine, noble women of themselves. What we expect of our Relief Society nurses is that they will be honorable in keeping their appointments, always responding NURSING IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY. 319 to the call of suffering humanity. They have been set apart by the brethren holding the Priesthood, and they now go forth to do their part with the Spirit of the Lord resting over them. We shall hope for them to go to the sick in all humility, and with a prayer in their hearts, that the Lord will bless them with his Spirit, that they may be a great success in taking care of the sick. We expect them to be a comfort to the family of the afflicted. They are many times called to the houses of the poor, and it is more blessed to minister to those that have not the means to help themselves, than to wait upon the rich, and the well favored. In doing good to others, we receive a greater blessing for ourselves. Therefore, the dear nurses must be always ready to help those who need them. There will be many things to endure, but when we are walking in the path that Jesus walked, we will always have his Spirit with us. We expect our nurses to attain the highest standard through their love and charity for others. We are very proud of our nurses; and as they are in such demand, we would advise many more of our young girls to take up the work. If a woman does not need the profession for support, it will always be a great benefit to her in her own family. Let the Relief Society nurse be the very best woman and saint in our whole community. REASONS FOR A RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE SCHOOL. As given By Dr. M. C. Roberts. 1st: That the most distant, rural, community as well as those living in cities, may receive skillful nursing. The students sent by the Relief Society are charged a nominal fee, in consideration of which, they sign a contract to do a certain amount of charity nursing; and for a specified length of time, they nurse for wages, as designated by the president of the ward Relief Society. 2nd: Women who have to support themselves — and others — and can not take a three years' course at a hospital, may obtain a lucrative profession in this way. 3rd: We consider this course in nursing a most essential part of every woman's education, that she may understand herself physically, and the laws of hygiene and sanitation — preparing herself for the great work of wifehood and motherhood. Students have come from Arizona, Colorado, Canada, Idaho, Mexico, Nevada, Utah and Wyoming. There have been three hundred and twenty Relief Society nurse graduates in the eight classes taught by Dr. Roberts, besides the private pupils that she has taught in obstetrics and nursing.