In the Kitchen Laboratory. Mrs. Hazel I. L. Dunford. FOOD FOR THE SICK. The feeding of well persons is a question of great moment, but when it comes to preparing food for those who are ill, the subject is of relatively supreme importance. The appetite of a well individual is usually a safe guide, but in case of disease, it is usually so perverted as to be of no practical use. And if these longings are followed, the result is generally a disappointment; for, as a rule, when one is ill "all things have the same taste," as we have often heard patients say. Never consult a sick person as to what he shall have to eat, or even discuss his diet within hearing distance. The physician in attendance, usually prescribes for the patient, and he should know the required need of the one in his charge. In many diseases, food plays a very important part toward recovery. The quantity and kind vary, according to the nature of the disease. In some cases, it is absolutely necessary to withhold food for days— the object being to starve the germs that cause the disease. In chronic cases, the food supply should be studied carefully, and the strength of the patient kept up. As a rule, in such a case, one has the advice of a physician to follow. Always avoid giving food that will overtax the individual. Food must be assimilated to be of any use. A common mistake made is to overfeed — especially during convalescence — and the result is too often a relapse. In preparing food for the sick, there are a few essential things that should be kept in mind: Cleanliness of every article is absolutely necessary. Appeal to the sense of sight as much as possible; appeal to the sense of taste; consider the digestibility of the food given, and remember economy. Many times a sick person in the house calls for all sorts of extravagances. This is not necessary. As was pointed out in a previous article, foods purchased out of season are of inferior quality, due to the shipping, packing, etc. The high price paid in no way renders these foods more easily digested. If food is well cooked and artistically served — no matter how cheap — it will be acceptable by those who are sick. 
 RECIPES. Eggnog. Break one egg into a bowl, add 1/4 teaspoon salt and 2 teaspoons of sugar; beat until very light. Add 1 cup good milk, and a little nutmeg; serve immediately. Foamy Omelet. Separate the yolks from the whites of two eggs. To the yolks add 1/4 teaspoon salt, a dash of pepper. Beat with Dover egg-beater until light; add 2 tablespoons of milk. Beat the whites until fairly stiff, and fold them into the yolks. Pour the mixture into a hot buttered omelet pan; cook for about five minutes, then put into the oven for one minute to cook the upper surface. Cut nearly through, and lay one-half over the other. Serve immediately. Egg Cream. Separate yolks of two eggs from the whites. Add two tablespoons sugar to yolks. Beat until well mixed; add juice and grated rind of half lemon. Place in a dish over hot water, and cook until the mixture begins to thicken. Add beaten whites of eggs and stir two minutes. Serve cold. Beef Tea. Cut in one-half inch pieces one-half of a round steak; cover it with cold water and add one-half teaspoon salt. Let stand for three hours. Strain, and then put in a fruit jar — or glass preferably— and heat slowly in warm water until it just loses its red color. Serve in a hot bowl or glass. Prune Whip. 1/2 lb. dried prunes, soaked over night. Boil until tender in water in which they have been soaked. Strain through colander. Add to this 2 tb. lemon juice, 1/2 cup sugar, and boil five minutes, making a puree. Let cool, and fold in the whites of 3 to 5 eggs. Bake in a slow oven. Serve with a boiled custard, made of yolks of the eggs used, 4 tb. sugar, 1 1/2 pints of milk, or more if desired. A little pinch of salt and a few drops of vanilla. ODE TO THE TABERNACLE ORGAN By Minerva P. Shaw. Thy echo moves our hearts to tears; Our bosoms swell; and yet, 'Tis not from vanished hopes or fears, Remorse, nor vain regrets; But tears refreshing seem to come, Like dewdrops to the flowers; To purify the human soul, And calm this world of ours. OGDEN, JUNE 1, 1915. Good Health. By Mated Baggarley. WATER. No thirsty mortal will dispute the fact that water — pure and cold — is the nectar of the gods. It is, and ever will be, Nature's sovereign remedy for sundry ills that flesh is heir to. Like every other great and good thing the Lord has given to man, it can be had without money and without price. As Lowell says: "There is no price set on the lavish summer And spring may be had by the poorest comer — " Thus it is with water, and with air! And yet we daily jostle — in Life's crowded thoroughfare — those who are in dire need of either an internal or external bath; persons whose systems are clogged and whose senses are sluggish, all for the lack of that which may be had even easier than Aladdin obtained what he desired. They do not even need to rub a lamp! One in health requires water, not only to quench thirst, but to flush every part of the body. He needs it in the form of warm baths to cleanse the covering of the sub-tissues, the skin, and to keep the pores open. If young people who are troubled with pimples, would only take a cold bath every morning— shower, sponge or plunge — those unsightly blemishes would quickly disappear. They are nature's cry for a cup of cold water. Yet many boys and girls in despair, will diet strictly (which makes matters worse), or will even pay for x-ray treatments, (which are expensive, dangerous and useless), when all they need is a liberal diet, — consisting mainly of graham, cornmeal, whole-wheat or rye bread, milk, butter, fruit, and an abundance of green vegetables, and anything else they desire, in moderation, and well chewed — a warm bath, with plenty of soap, once a week, and the application of cold water internally and externally. If, in addition, they sleep in the open air and use brain and muscles freely, the result will certainly be beneficial not only to them but to the race. A tepid sponge bath will soothe a feverish child; and a free use of cold water, in the hands of one who understands, will allay a raging fever that strikes at the very citadel of life itself! Nothing in the world will relieve a baby, screaming with 
 colic, as quickly as an intelligent use of water. When an attack threatens, give the very young baby a hot foot bath; the older infant, a hot sitz bath, until it is thoroughly warmed. Test the water with your elbow to prevent burning, and keep adding warm water. Then dry quickly, and put on its clothing which has been warmed by the fire; give a couple of teaspoonfuls of hot water, containing a pinch of salt (common table salt), apply a thick cloth wet with alcohol over the abdomen; and, finally, give a small injection of warm water, and you will save yourself work and worry, for the babe will sleep for hours without stirring. For croup, wring a cloth out of cold water and wrap it around the patient's throat, and cover it with a dry one; give frequent doses of warm, consecrated oil or glycerine, and the child will soon cease to cough. A warm bath is good for nervousness or sleeplessness; a cold one is a bracing tonic that beats tea, coffee, and drugs a mile. Dr. Woods Hutchinson suggests that most people are underfed. He might have added that nine out of ten were perishing for water! Water treatment has become a science, and is dignified by the cognomen of hydropathy. A full statement of its curative value would fill a volume. To show appreciation of a gift we must use it. Then let us prove our gratitude to the Eternal Father, for water, by using it to "Make the house where Gods may dwell, Beautiful, entire, and clean." The General Board are delighted to welcome home Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon who has been spending the winter in the far-off Islands of the Pacific — Hawaii. Sister Cannon has not been idle while she was away from Headquarters, but has met with the Relief Society in Honolulu, and has done a great deal of good, both amongst the sisters there, and with the elders. The Presidency of that mission felt very grateful for the splendid assistance rendered by Sister Cannon; and we also rejoice in the good work she has done. Welcome home. A Prince of Ur.