By Homespun. Two hours before sunset a filthy burial cart was just issuing from the great gateway of Ur on the southeast side of the city. It was the crude and rough cart which was used to carry out the pauper dead of the city to the sepulchers lying in the sides of the low, hilly hummocks back of the river. The great mounds which had opened their cave-like mouths for many generations to swallow the dead of Ur were grim and loathsome in the lower portions of these hills. Along the upper edges there were many carved and beautiful sarcophagi, while here and there along the face of the cliffs hung palms, or acacias with trading verdure. At the upper portions of the tombs and burial caves, there were carved images of many gods known to Assyria, rising on pedestals under the palms or squatting on low bases, and flower-bedecked. But to the far end of all this grandeur there slept in simplicity the less favored ones of the city's dead, while at its extreme south edge there was a huge yawning cave into which the promiscuous corpses were flung without much ceremony and over them was thrown quick dissolvents to prevent possible infection. Out of the city's gateway, therefore, the death-cart lumbered with creaking wheels and dust-rising slowness. The peasant driver crept along beside the cart clucking to his jaded ass and himself springing forward occasionally to avoid the lash of his master who chatted idly with the passers by or rode up from time to time to accelerate the cart-driver's speed. As the dreary death-march proceeded thus rudely, three female forms, clad in dark abayas. but with the unveiled faces of the Accadians, ran hastily out of the city gate and peered anxiously down the crowded roadway for something not seen, in the press of other vehicles and travelers. They ran this way and that on the road, always making for the road which led to the sepulchers of the dead. Finally, with a cry the taller one, a grave and handsome girl of twenty, with close-crinkled hair of ebony hue, and wide but scarlet lips, set in a face of simple black homely charm, cried loudly, "See sisters, there it is. Hasten, we will be too late." The two ran after her with fleet steps, and catching up with the death-cart, the elder maiden spoke hurriedly to the loutish driver. 
 "Wait! Wait, I beg of you. Is not this the body of the poor slave Zarah who was done to death today in the slave-market?" "Huh?" asked the lout stupidly. The girl repeated her question. But the slave would not deign to attempt to fathom in what matter so singular a question about an unknown dead slave could be asked. How was he to know she had come by her death? Life was cheap beside the river Euphrates. He chucked loudly to his sleepy beast and started to rumble on, the corpse bounding to and fro as he rode roughly away. "O, stop," cried the girl. "See, here is money." That was a form of salutation easily understood by every menial since the world began. Out shot the filthy hand, and into it dropped a small Assyrian coin. The cart was halted, the bit of cloth thrown over the dead was pulled away, and at once, as the sisters crowded around the bier, each whispered solemnly to the other: "It is Zarah!" While they stood thus weeping beside the cart, the officer came up swearing in guttural Assyrian. But as he saw the three black maidens bowed over the cart, he too stopped and stared. "O, sir," said the elder girl, "this was the sister of my mother. She was once a free woman, but was sold by a Prince's son to a merchant of Ninevah. We had just learned of her return to this city when the news of her violent death also reached us. Our father is Azzi-jaami — the idol-maker in the house of