GUIDE LESSONS. 339 nurses ? interest themselves in this matter, but also philanthropic people who are not trained professionally, but who perhaps by study, association, or experience have gained useful knowledge which they are glad to impart. Institutes or schools for research work have been founded by some of those men of wealth who at heart are humanitarians. The Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research, in New York City, was established for the complete investigation of the nature and causes of human disease and methods of its prevention and treatment. Also to establish a department of animal pathology to improve the health of poultry, cattle, and other farm animals. These institutions cost money, Mr. John D. Rockefeller having given $12,500,000. exclusion of the building and the grounds. "Some of the practical achievements of this institute are the discovery of the serum treatment of epidemic meningitis; the discovery of the cause and mode of infection of infantile paralysis; the surgery of blood vessels, through which transfusion of blood has become a daily life-saving expedient; the safer methods of administering anaesthetics, and the cultivation of the parasite of rabies." With the increased knowledge of childhood's needs, and the solicitous care accorded the infant, it is no wonder that the death rate among children has so greatly decreased. A few statistics will readily show the great difference between the present death rate and that of past times. Reliable statistics may be obtained from recent hooks, pamphlets, or magazine articles, of which so many are now published. Public talks on the care of children, given bv reliable physicians and nurses, are very helpful and much to be recommended. However, there are general facts, easily learned, with which every mother should be familiar, and which may safely be put into practice. First, every one should realize that the tenderest age in the life of the child, and in some respects, the most important time, is the first two years. An authority on diseases of children, makes the statement, that "functional derangements and organic disease are more common, and the mortality greater between the ages of six months and two years, than at any other period of childhood." Heredity may have much to do with the ill health of a child, but strong hereditary tendencies may be overcome by intelligent feeding, healthful surroundings, and careful training. With this in view, stations have been established in most large cities, where pure milk is supplied to babies who are in need and instructions as to feeding. Sanitary conditions are looked after by boards of health. The results are that many precious baby lives are saved. 
 Greatest care should be taken to maintain or establish good health, that the so-called diseases of childhood may not have fatal results or harmful effects. It often happens that children of high-grade, mental, and nervous temperament seem peculiarly susceptible to disease, and require tenderest care. The diseases common to childhood, to be dreaded, are measles, whooping-cough, and scarlet fever. The last is most to be feared, because it is so highly and subtly contagious, and the occasional effects so direful. Many splendid children have lost their sight and their hearing, and thus have become deaf mutes, as a result of scarlet fever. Any of the diseases mentioned, when they do not prove fatal, may leave bad results that hamper the victim through life. The wisdom of quarantine regulations is manifest, and any member of the community should be heart and soul in aiding the enforcement of the quarantine rules. Where children have been exposed to contagion, their general health should be guarded more carefully than ever, and when symptoms of serious illness appear, there is wisdom in calling a physician early. QUESTIONS. What would be some of the results of the human family of increased health and lengthened life? Name some of the advantages of passing through childhood in health. How may accidents or illness be averted? What is one of the main objects of the wise physician, mother, or nurse? Name some of the ways in which medical science has advanced? How is knowledge of health principles extended? Tell what you can about the Rockefeller Institute? What would you say about public health talks? What is the tenderest age in child life? What about heredity in children? Of what benefit are milk stations? Have you any in your district? Do you need any? Name some childhood diseases likelv to leave bad results. Can anything be done to prevent? What do you think about quarantine regulations? What about giving early treatment in sickness? GUIDE LESSONS. 341 Lesson IV? A Few Facts Every Mother Should Know. How to keep the baby well nourishe mother. but not permit overfeeding should the understood by every Over-feeding or improper food bring on intestinal troubles more readily than any other causes. When intestinal sickness occurs, the food supply should be immediately stopped until the trouble is better. Sterile water may be freely given? cold, unless there is nausea (vomiting), and m that case, the water should be given hot. A flannel bandage wrapped around the abdomen is beneficial in bowel trouble, because it helps to keep the skin at an even temperature. Babies should be kept clean and sweet? it seems wrong to the infant to have it otherwise. It is a blessing to the mother of today that clothing? simple and plain, and planned for comfort? is the correct thing. The temperature of the child should be equable, avoiding extremes of heat or cold ? both are injurious. It is a good rule to keep the feet warm and the head cool. When babies are nursed regularly, there is little danger of colic or bowel trouble. After six months babies rarely need night nursing. . Do not let the babies be exposed to draughts. It is very careless and even reprehensible to take baby from his warm bed and carry him rapidly through cooler air, without protection from air currents. The sudden change has been known to bring on serious lung trouble. Nothing is better for baby than plenty of fresh air, summer and winter, but the child should be properly dressed for the prevailing temperature. Children's eyes should be protected from glaring lights, either artificial or natural. We all have seen babies with nothing but tiny bonnets or caps on their heads, facing strong sunlight, with no protection whatever for the eyes. In very first baths, a baby should be handled by a skilled nurse, and the water should be of the right temperature. Infants have been known to receive a shock in some manner that gives them an unconquerable aversion to bathing. While it is the duty of the mother to keep her baby clean, even so good a thing as bathing may be overdone. There are times when a sleep would be better than a bath, and the mother needs wisdom to decide. Above all things, children should be protected from nervous shock. Sudden or loud noises, rough handling or tossing, being kept awake, when they should be sleeping, all these things tend to lower the vitality and harm the nervous system and the injury might be permanent. 
 When children have fever, it is soothing, comforting, and coolng to sponge them with soft cloths, wrung out of cool or tepid water. Bathing the wrists or wrapping them in a wet, cool, cloth, quickly reduces the temperature, because on the wrists there are arteries so near the surface. In case of accident where there are severe bruises or broken bones, wring cloths out of water as hot as the hands can bear, and lay over the injury, while awaiting the arrival of the physician. That treatment allays pain and reduces swelling. If, in the same way, a child should get cut, and the blood comes out in spurts instead of a steady flow, it shows that an artery has been cut. Pressure should immediately be placed between the injury and the heart, and a very tight bandage applied until skilled attention can be given. It may save a life by keeping one from bleeding to death. A mother who has become overheated through overwork or fast walking should take a good drink of water before nursing her babe. ? QUESTIONS. What can you say about the feeding and overfeeding of babies? What about food and also about water in cases of intestinal trouble? What about changing temperatures for baby? What about fresh air for baby? What about caring for babies' eyes? What about babies' baths? Do children sometimes needlessly receive permanent injuries to their nervous systems? How? How may children be soothed in fever? What would you do in case of bruises or broken bones? What would you do if an artery were cut? Elizabeth S. Wilcox. An arrangement which makes it possible to clean the outside of upper-story windows without serious inconvenience or danger, conists of a metal grip which holds an absorbent cloth at the end of a handle and on its top side carries a rubber squeegee.