	THE PIONEER CHRISTMAS.
	Continued from page 51.
around his neck. At the touch of her hand
and the knowledge of her tender thought-
fulness, his heart was filled with gratefulness
for her love, and his whole being thrilled
with delight holding her in his arms,
he gazed for one moment into the depths of
her clear blue eyes, and whispered, “Oh,
my love! my love! Heaven keep you safe
for me, and I will conquer every obstacle
and make you the proudest and happiest of
women.”
	There then, outside the old gray walls,
in the stillness of the night, with light
feathery snow falling over them, these
young lovers plighted their faith and devo-
tion to each other, pure and simple, but full
of hope and love divine. They lingered only
a few moments in the bliss of this sweet
exchange of promises, and then bade each
other good bye for the present.
	The girl returned to her home across the
court. She could not speak to any one that
night. Such a spell of happiness held her,
that she desired to be alone with her
thoughts. On the hearth glowed the coals
of a fragrant pine knot, and by that faint
light, she prepared for bed, not wishing to
disturb any one by lighting a candle.
Kneeling in the glow of the firelight by the
side of her father’s old arm chair, she
praised the Lord for her happiness and
thanked Him for her great love; and George
through the silent watch of that still night,
also in his heart, sang songs of praise and
thanksgiving. What matter that the night
was cold; what matter that the snow fell
thick and fast; what matter that the wolves
cried out in the night air; or that not far
off in the hills the Indians were camped!
These young hearts beat warm and happy,
and knew not cold nor fear. A Christmas
never dawned on happier, brighter hearts
than theirs.
	Christmas morning in the Fort was very
busy. Plans had been made to have the
families outside the enclosure come in and
share the good cheer with those inside, and
so quite a number of house parties were ar-
ranged. Meat and provisions had been
distributed, liberally and equally for the oc-
casion, so all fared alike and though the
dinners were somewhat plain, they were
feasts that day. Roast beef, dried corn and
puddings with dried peaches or plums are
not exactly the Christmas dinners of to day;
but these pioneer women had learned an
art of making toothsome and appetizing re-
lishes out of the simplest materials, and
such a variety as this was a feast indeed.
In after years, many times boiled segoes
and swamp-roots had to serve for a meal.

[Column 2]
While the housewives were preparing the
dinner, the men had assembled to plan some
means of treating with the Indians that the
watch need not to be kept, and to remove
the fear from their hearts. It was decided
that five young men go out to the Indian
camp with some meat and flour, though it
could not well be spared, and make some
terms, if possible, with these savages.
Young George asked to be permitted to be
one of this number; and so earnestly did he
desire to go, that he was allowed, though
he was extremely young for a mission re-
quiring so much caution, diplomacy and
perhaps fighting. He had no fear, and felt
called to go on this errand to the red men.
The Indians were pleased with the gifts
and begged the men to smoke the pipe of
peace with them, which of course the white
men readily consented to do. The savages
then expressed themselves as having no
hostile feelings towards the settlers, and
said they were on the way to their homes
on the blue water to the South, and were
just about to take up their journey. The
men of course were pleased with, the suc-
cess of their visit but George seemed un-
willing yet to depart, and finally succeeded
in persuading his companions to ask the
Indians to pray with them. After some ex-
planation from the white men, and wonder
from the savages, they all consented and
stood in a circle; then George passed in
among them, and in the Indian tongue
plead for mercy for this wild band of men
and their race, and told them of the Master
and His mercy and love for all mankind,
and that this day was the great day of peace
and praise throughout the world.
	A great silence fell all around. The sav-
ages stood like stone images, and the white
men almost he[-]d their breath, for they knew
a divine power had sunken through their
friend and comrade. He was the first to
move, and with a gladness of heart reflect-
ed in his face, he passed among them, shak-
ing hands and bidding them farewell. The
Indians felt the spirit of the occasion, and
were so overcome with what they had
heard, that they began to offer their blank
ets and robes and armlets to their white
visitors but th y had received already
more than they had expected and all they
wanted in the promise of peace, and so re-
fused to take these offerings, and as soon
as possible, returned to their friends with
the glad tidings.
	The day was too cold to call the people
out to the public place of worship, the Bow-
ery; but when the boys returned to the
Fort, the people were summoned into the
courtyard, and the good news was told and
the word given out for all families when
assembling for dinner to speak their praise
unto the Lord.
	When Elizabeth heard of the great power
given her lover, as he stood among the In-
dians, she felt very proud indeed, and more
than anxious to tell her parents of her great
happiness; but with the shyness of youth,
kept putting it off, though many times
through the day, while helping her mother
with the cooking aud work, she had nearly
told her. Her happiness, however, was
quite apparent, and she sang first one love
tune and then another, as an accompani-
ment to her work. She joked with her
brother and teased her sisters unmercifully
about their beaux; in fact, the great elation
of her spirits became contagious, and that
was indeed a happy household that after-
noon. After dinner, however, she sobered

[Column 3]
down somewhat, and while her father was
reading in his usual place by the fire, she
knelt down by his side and told him the
story of her love. She was sure of his sym-
pathy, and knew he would do all in his
power to help her. And he did. Stroking
her soft brown hair with his hand, he talked
to her for some time, praising her choice,
for he had watched and noticed young
George for many months, and he felt him
to be superior both intellectually and spirit-
ually to many of his companions, who
seemed to have greater advantages and bet-
ter prospects than he. And the father prom-
sed her his help aud good will in their fut-
ure preparations. This was very comfort
ing to Elizabeth; for while there was great
sympathy always between her father and
herself, she feared he might be influenced
by her mother who she knew had other
plans for her. Her mother was just as
good and kindhearted as her father; but she
also like most mothers, was a little ambitious
for her daughters and even among the early
settlers there sometimes seemed a little
caste. Some families could scarcely forget
that formerly they boasted noble ancestry
and fine homes, had been able to keep ser-
vants and carriages, though now a common
cause and a humble faith had made a com-
mon condition among the Sa[-]n[-]s. No rich,
no poor, all fared alike. All enjoyed equal
privileges, as all enjoyed equal favors from
our Heavenly Father. Oh, the joy of such
a condition! God’s children all—breathing
the same air, the same sky over all! When
ever before or since, has such a condition
prevailed among a people? It was like par-
adise set in the mountains.
	All day George had been almost over-
powered by the  thought of the great gift
that had been given him and had felt to
humble himself before the Lord. The tears
came to his eyes many times during the
night at the thought of what had happened;
and he was quite silent on the subject, only
telling his uncle in answer to some questions
how it had happened. He himself could
not account for this wonderful manifesta-
tion, only that he had prayed in his heart
to feel satisfied before leaving the Indian
c[-]mp that their promises were made in good
faith, and he believed that this was an an-
swer to his prayer. His sister Anne, a tall
fair girl, stood near during this conversa-
tion b  tween her uncle and brother and
throwing her arms around her brother she
said, “Dear George, this is but the fulfilling
of mother’s word to you: Go on and con-
tinue to live pure and true, and your des-
tiny will be great Oh, how I wish she
could have lived until this moment! How
well would she feel repaid for her sorrows.’’
	“My sweet sister,’’ he answered, “many
sufferings have been ours, and that is why
we appreciate every little token of mercy or
power from our Heavenly Father so
much.”
	Oh, the simple faith of these poor peo-
ple! What a source of happiness and joy 
it brought! How much better would the
world be now if only faith could be the
anchor.
	George’s aunt had been unusually silent
during this conversation but after her din-
ner was over, and her housework done for
the day, she [-]ook the youth aside and
talked to him long and earnestly of his
mother and his early home. Then taking
from her pocket an old fashioned leather
purse, she took therefrom a crooked guinea
and a ring. The coin had been her father’s


