R. S, REPORTS.
PANGUITCH.
	The Panguitch Stake Relief Society con-
ference was held in the Tabernacle at Pan-
guitch August 28, 1903, President Eliza-
beth De Long presiding. Meeting opened
with singing and prayer, roll call and read-
ing of minutes. Reports were given from
Escelante, Panguitch, Hatch Henrieville,
Cannonville, Hillsdale, Kingston. Re-
marks were made by Sisters Barbara Myers,
Maria L. Sargent, Hannah I Harris, and
Counselor Alice Jane Cameron each spoke
upon a different subject, teaching of chil-
dren, grain question, labors of the Relief
Society, responsibilities of mothers, moth-
ers’ work.
	Bishop James B. Heywood spoke upon
home attractions, good reading, observing
the Sabbath day to keep it sacred, counseled
the young people to be married in the
House of the Lord.
	Sister Elizabeth Haycock bore her testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel and Sister
Margaret H. Clark spoke on mothers’ in-
fluence, advantage of pure thought and
good conversation. President Elizabeth De
Long gave a report of her trip around the
Stake, and spoke upon family influence and
home surroundings.
	Conference adjourned without date, bene-
diction by Patriarch Joseph L. Heywood.
		MARGARET HAYCOCK, Sec.
BIG HORN.
	The second annual conference of the Re-
lief Society of the Big Horn Stake was held
at Cowley, Wyoming, September 11, 1903,
President Lucy F. Grant presiding. After
singing, prayer, roll call and minntes of
previons conference, the presidents of the
several wards reported conditions temporally
and spiritually, all seemed satisfactory and
in good working order.
	President Emma S. Woodruff, of the
Granite Stake, and who is also a member
of the General Board of the Relief Society,
said she sympathized with the pioneer sis-
ters, had felt very anxious for those who
had come hither to colonize, but felt we


were rich in the Gospel, all here are work-
ing for the same great cause; she read a let-
ter of instructions from the General Presi-
dent, Bathsheba W. Smith.
	First Counselor in the General Relief
Society, Annie T. Hyde, expressed herself
as delighted with the way the sisters had
reported. Spoke of the great good the
mothers’ work was doing among the sisters,
suggested the lectures be given to the sis-
ters that are somewhat backward.
	President Lucy F. Grant, Counselor Av-
ilda Dixon and Sister Abbie H. Cowley
made encouraging remarks to the sisters.
	Conference adiourned for one year. Ben-
ediction by Charlotte Lindsey.
		SADIE PARTRIDGE, Secretary.


