[Column 1]
casion, and could not immediately bring
herself to the homely tasks of the house; so
after leaving the school room, she started
out for a walk. The sharp snap of the
frost under her feet, and the crisp air but
tended to increase the elation of her spirits
as with long steady strides she wandered
on, neither noting nor caring whither, when
suddenly she realized she had wandered in-
to danger, for not far ahead she saw an In-
dian crouching along, but between herself
and him was a settler’s cabin, and she hast-
ily made for the door, where she found the
poor frightened woman almost in hysterics
as she clung to her little babe.
	“Why, Aunt Harriet, are you hurt?’’ she
asked.
	“Oh no, but somewhat frightened, I ad-
mit, and a little unstrung in my nerves,
now that the danger is over,” replied the
woman.
	“Tell me what has happened, and shall
I go for help?” said Elizabeth.
	“No;” Aunt Harriet replied. “When I
gave the Indian all the bread I had, he
threatened me because he wanted more, and
for a moment I felt as though my last hour
and my baby’s too had come, then I re-
membered our great mastif, chained in the
other room, and pretending to get him
more bread, I went in and loosened the dog
and urged him on. Of course I couldn’t be
cruel enongh to let him quite kill the In-
dian, but I let the dog stay long enough to
make him pretty much afraid and quite
willing to give in to me too. Then I called
the dog off and dressed his wounds and
sent him off. I think that Indian won’t
come round here much more.”
	“I should think not,” said Elizabeth;
“but oh Aunt Harriet! I wish you were not
so far away from the rest of us.”
	“I’m not afraid, and when Spring comes
you’ll all be moving out of the Fort and
making homes, and you see we are just a
little ahead of you,’’ Aunt Harriet answered.
"But what brings you out this afternoon,
Elizabeth?”
	“I have been in the school-room today
with Mary Dilworth, and the exercises and
sweet stories she told the children so im-
pressed me that I thought I would rather
walk awhile and think of this holy theme
than go back to my cooking, and I only
chanced this way by accident; but now, I
believe the Lord directed my steps, for
surely you need company after such a
fright. ”
	Elizabeth immediately began to help her
friend with her work and remained until
nearly sunset, when Aunt Harriet’s oldest
son, who had been away for wood came in.
He also had seen a few Indians, but said
they-seemed friendly, and he did not antic-
ipate any trouble from them; but he was
more alarmed when he heard of his mother’s
experience with one of them. Concealing
his fear, however, he began to praise his
mother for her bravery and quick wit.
	“Yes,” the mother answered, "there
was no time to lose, scarcely time to think,
and oh! the thought of a death from the In-
dians! I would a thousand times rather
have died on the plains than to be killed by
these savages!”
	“Yes, Indeed,” answered Elizabeth, but
God is merciful, and I cannot think this
people will ever suffer from the Indians. Of
course we have all the time the dread and
fear and many perilous incidents like this to
alarm and worry us, but we are home at

[Column 2]
last, and do you know, Aunt Harriet, I be-
lieve we are going to be very happy here.”
	“You talk like a good, brave girl, Eliza-
beth, and I am sure you are right. We
have much to be thankful for, after all, and
the greatest of all is the wonderful love of
our people for each other. Tell your mother
and the rest of the folks down at the Fort I
wish them a Merry Christmas.”
	Elizabeth now bade her friends good-bye,
refusing the company of the young man,
for his mother needed him more than she
until others of the family should return,
and with long rapid steps she turned home-
ward.
	The day had been full of interest for her,
and her mind was full of rich, bright
thoughts, the thought of the wonderful
bravery and heroism of Aunt Harriet, more
than surpassed by her tenderness and mercy,
when she bathed and dressed the wounds
of the savage, of her great contentment in
her humble, almost destitute surroundings;
and she knew that all around her were
numbers of just such true, brave, lonely
women, enduring, almost with pleasure,
the greatest hardships and sacrificing every
selfish thought on an altar of faith. Then
she thought of Mary Dilworth, and her in-
tellect and talents, and wished in her heart
that she but possessed the same, for she felt
the great good she could do for others, and
how perhaps she might aid her lover too.
	At this thought, a rush of color suffused
her whole being. Dear George, how manly,
and yet h w gentle he is. “I wonder why,”
she said aloud, "he should have been se-
lected for that new mission. It hardly seems
fair, for as yet he has no means or property
or prospects. Well, he says if I love him I
must not complain, for he will ever bring
his own feelings into submission to the
opinions of those above him in authority.
The experience of our westward journey
ought to be sufficient evidence that obed-
ience is our surest road to success.”
	On reaching home, Elizabeth saw the
young folks already making preparations
for the evening dance. She did not join
them just then, however, but sought her
father to inform him of Sister Young’s ad-
venture, knowing that though the merri-
ment might go on, the vigilant watch must
still be kept.
	All this day George had been busy help-
ing his uncle work on their little home, and
later engaged in some writing and copying
for him, so he had not been aware of Eliz-
abeth’s walk or visit to the school. There
was always much work to do, and he was
never idle, for when his uncle had no em-
ployment for him, he delighted in study.
Opportunities were few, and books were
very scarce, but George’s uncle was a
scholarly man and had succeeded in bring-
ing into the desert some few very choice
and rare books, and he was also more than
willing to help his nephew in his search for
knowledge.
	The temperature was somewhat lower,
as the evening advanced, and a slight wind
began to blow, which the settlers thought
meant snow. There had been no snow in
the valley up to that time, and they had
wished all along for a white Christmas, for
that would seem more natural. The time
for the dance arrived, and young and old
assembled in the little school-room. What
a queer sight! Rough boards, on which to
dance, and tallow candles for the lights. At
the end where the band sat were two lant-
erns and a row of half a dozen candles, then

[Column 3]
around the room in different places, were
candles in tin holders, stuck in the wall.
	The company came to have a good time
and be merry; the music was good, and the
room was warm and their hearts were
warm, so the hours flew swiftly by.
	George had danced only once with Eliz-
abeth, and that in a Tucker quadrille, so
had scarcely had time to speak to her since
the night before; but towards midnight, he
came near and whispered,
	“Should a waltz be called, Elizabeth, will
you give it to me? I have to leave shortly
to take the watch at the East gate ”
	Elizabeth was a great favorite, and had
been danci ng quite gaily all the evening;
but at these words from her lover, she stood
up quickly, and in her usual impulsive
manner, said,
	“I won’t dance again to-night, only with
you; and if you have to go, I shall go too.”
	“No,” said George, "stay and enjoy
yourself. I am sure you are.having a good
time.”
	“Yes,” she answered, “but you are here,
even though you haven’t been very atten-
tive this evening; and when you go, the
good time will go too.” 
	George was greatly pleased with the
girl’s frank confession, and as the strains
of a waltz began, the two young people 
clasped in each other’s arms joined in the
dance.
	The rhythmic motion of the body to the
music of the waltz is poetry to the soul, and
all the harsh, hard things of life are forgot-
ten and only the beautiful remain. There
are moments when all the senses are awake
in their intensity, and one sees the glorious
colors of the rainbow, hears the tender
notes of the song birds, scents the delicate
perfume of the flowers and feels the exquis-
ite harmony of life; and to these young
people, this was such a moment.
	They had seldom been alone, but from
their first acquaintance, they had felt drawn
towards each other, and a mutual confidence
and affection had arisen in their breasts.
Tonight, the affection had become deeper,
and both felt to enjoy the happy moments
to the utmost; but suddenly the music
ceased, then things became real again; and
once more there mingled with the laughter
and the merry-making, the thought of fear
and danger and parting. ’Twas ever [-]o in
the old, old time of long ago. Joy and fear,
gay delight and sorrow’s dread found equal-
place.
	The hour had come for George to take
the place at the gate, and Elizabeth, true
to her word, went with him. As had been
expected the wind had blown over, and a
gentle snow had set in. The ground was
already white with . the soft downy flakes,
and the snow was still falling. George took
Elizabeth to her home, then turned immed-
iately towards his own to get warmer cloth-
ing and his gun. His watch began at mid-
night, and he was anxious to keep his prom-
ise and not delay the relief of his friend who
already had to miss the first part of the
party. As he was walking back and forth,
thinking of his happiness, for tonight he
felt especially happy, Elizabeth joined him,
and in a shy, though gentle manner said,
	“I brought you, George, your Christmas
gift, You know it is already Christmas
morning, and I thought this would help to
keep you warm.”
	So saying, she unfolded the long com-
forter she had been,knitting, and wound it
Continued on page 53.


