[Column 1]
CHRISTMAS GATHERINGS.
	One of the blessings of Christmas day
consists in the custom of bringing people
together, families and friends. In this
workaday world what would we grow to
be, if there were not some such times
of refreshing as that day affords; the world
wonld be barren of real pleasure indeed.
We would all become cold and distant, and
the charm of blessed intercourse would be
a lost art. Even as it is, with the holidays
we have and many other reunions, we are
not as good to each other, or as friendly as
we ought to be. Let us be thankful we
have these times and seasons, and to the
fullest extent appreciate the friendly greet-
ing, the sweet association, the good cheer,
the warm welcome, the grasp of the hand,
and good wishes, if it is only that and no-
thing more.
	Let us also remember the lonely ones,
who have not as much to make life desir-
able; if our lot has been cast in pleasant
places then so much more is required of
us. It is not all in giving good gifts; there
is something better even than giving of one’s
substance, reaching after and lifting up
those who are distressed, and who need
consolation, sympathy and tenderness.
	Sometimes the death of one alters the
condition of many and so year after year as
time goes on changes may come, and the
Christmas festivities may be saddened or
even interrupted and then we look back
fondly upon the days when the household
band was unbroken. Occasionally the ab
sence of a part of the family from the home
circle makes a difference, if so we should
pause and give some thoughts of love to
those necessarily away, those, who are per-
haps far distant; let us never be forgetful
of the loved ones who cannot share with us
this Christmas the happy hours. These
are things to treasure for a lifetime, out of
sight is not always out of mind, it is an ex-
pression that needs modifying.
	There are some remembrances that
should mingle in our thoughts every Chris-
mas, the blessings we are enjoying because
of the birth and life, and example of the
Redeemer of the world. Let us draw near
to Him through the Holy Spirit of life and
salvation vouchsafed to us who believe on
Him and have partaken of the blessings of
the Gospel.
	It is beautiful to recall his advent into
the world, to repeat the sacred story, and
to know that the stars which shine above

[Column 2]
us are the same that shed their radiance
over the babe in the manger, the echoes of
the songs that were sung in the fields of
Bethlehem are still ringing down the ages
of time; the same moon that heralded the
rising of the sun of righteousness looks
down upon us who live today. These
heavenly bodies witnessed the sojourn of
the Redeemer upon earth, they shone on
Him in the wilderness, they heard his mid-
night supplication and rose over his sepul-
chre in the holy land; a land forever sanc-
tified by his bleeding footsteps. The story
is never old, nor tiresome, however oft re-
peated. Sometimes one can almost hear
the shepherds’ voices as they sing “Hos-
annah! hosannah! Hosannah to God in the
highest! Peace on earth and good will to
men.”
	Many are the beautiful and uplifting
thoughts and emotions that fill our hearts
with praise and gratitude at Christmas
time, and would that one could always be
full of the sublime charity that characterized
the blessed Savior of mankind; the exalta-
tion of feeling that is inspired when one’s
whole mind is centred in the love and
praise of God, but we are far from reaching
this divine height of excellence; yet many
are striving to attain that purity of life and
light that will lift them above petty annoy-
ances, and help them to live in a purer at-
mosphere. We can never reach such an
ecstatic state alone, it must be by minister-
ing to those around us and helping them to
stand for the highest and the best, to stand
for righteousness. The Gospel we have
embraced teaches us all these things, and
let us press forward that we may attain
thereto.
	O, the magnitude of the work, it seems
so little one can do in a lifetime, and yet
we realize much has already been done by
those who laid the foundation, and we are
learning day by day to help, the Scripture
says “They also serve who only stand and
wait,” waiting is hard but patience is re-
quired for those who wait and we are told
patience is a virtue, also long suffering and
gentleness.
	The prosperity of the Latter-day Saints
in the present day is almost beyond belief.
Some of us who know the bitter past are
simply amazed at the change. It is indeed
wonderful to contemplate. We see, how-
ever, the fulfillment of prophecy in these
things, and the prosperity of Zion should
cause us to rejoice and sing praises to our
Heavenly Father, who has vouchsafed to
His Saints such blessings.
	Christmas is a good time to make mani-
fest our gratitude by ministering to others
and proving our loyalty to the Master
whose natal day we celebrate, giving liber-
ally to those in need, whether of food or
raiment, love or sympathy, remembering
His words: “Inasmuch as ye have done it
unto the least of these my brethren, ye
have done it unto me.”

“The star that shone in Bethlehem,
	Shines still and shall not cease;
And we listen still for the tidings
	Of Glory and of Peace.”


