[Column 1]
and grandfather’s also and the ring had
been her mother’s
“Take these, George,’’ she said, “and
keep the coin always. The ring give to
your wife when you have one, for it was to
have been your mother’s had I ever seen
her again. Our mother gave it to me to
keep for her.”
The ring was of very soft, yellow gold,
with pretty, open carving around the set-
ting, and a clear oval sapphire, with a small
pearl on each side formed the setting.
“It seems almost too much happiness for
one day, dear Aunt,” said George; and
then he told her of his engagement to Eliz-
abeth, and asked if she were willing for
him to give this ring to her as a pledge of
their love. His aunt gladly consented, for
she knew and admired the girl exceedingly
and felt sure it would find a worthy place
on Elizabeth’s finger.
When evening came, George called at
Elizabeth’s home, where there were other
young men of the Fort visiting. Elizabeth
and her two sisters were very popular
young ladies, so their home was frequently
a gathering place for young people. Eliz-
abeth’s father gave George a very warm
welcome this Christmas evening, which the
company attributed to his wonderful exper-
ience in the morning with the Indians; but
George knew by the warm pressure of the
hand and the merry twinkle in his eye that
her father knew of their love and approved
of him; and so the evening hours glided on.
Parching corn in the long-handled frying
pan was one amusement, while reciting
pieces and singing songs made pleasure,
too. Then some one proposed a story.
“Now who can tell a story like mother?”
said John. “Come, mother, bring some-
thing out of the Michigan forests, if its only
a ghost.”
“Oh yes, do,” said the young folks in a
chorus, “we just love ghost stories, if they
do make us creep.”
“That’s just John’s nonsense,” said his
mother, “but I will tell you of something
that happened when I was a young girl, that
I had almost forgotten until I heard today
of George’s prayer with the Indians and
that recalled it, for it was almost if not quite
as strange. “Twas Christmas morning, and
the snow had been falling all the day before
and all night, and lay around the house at
least a foot deep; and in the doorways and
by the fences, were great drifts a yard or
more deep. Not a soul had left the house,
and mother had just started to prepare
breakfast when there was a knock at the
kitchen door. The children were not
dressed, and we hesitated for a moment
about opening the door, for we expected a
great rush of cold and a fall of snow into
the room; but sending the children out of
the draft, mother opened the door, and in
walked a tall elderly man. No cold seemed
to come into the room, nor any snow; but
we did not notice that then, we only looked
at the man, who quietly entered and closed
the door behind him, then walked over by
the stove and sat down before speaking.
We were all quite taken back by his man-
ner, still no one spoke. Then he held out his
hands to the fire, and they were white and
soft as snow, and we began to note how
tall and straight and handsome he looked,
when suddenly he asked mother if he might
have breakfast with us.
“Just an ordinary tramp,” put in John.
“Wait,” said his mother, “until you
hear the rest of the story, and then see if

[Column 2]
you think him a tramp.” Then she con-
tinued.
“We ate our breakfast almost in silence,
but such wonderful peace seemed around
us, and we all felt something like one feels
in a Quaker meeting, such a pure holy
spirit in the silence. You know we were
Quakers before we joined the Church, and
so this silence didn’t cause us much aston-
shment like it would now. Well, when
breakfast was over, the stranger got up and
said, “The Lord bless this house.” Then
out he walked, and mother felt so strange
she went to the window to see which way
he went, but she couldn’t see anything of
him at all, so father said that he would go
out and look around a bit; and would you
believe it, when he opened the door, the
drift of snow fell in, and there was not a
footprint in the snow anywhere around.
Now what do you think that was?”
“Maybe it was the wandering Jew,’’said
John. He has lived so long he can walk
on air by this time.”
“Well, without laughing, we thought
perhaps it was him,” answered his mother,
“but since I joined the Church, sometimes
I have thought it might have been one of
the three Nephites. At any rate, I know
it is a true story, improbable as it seems.”
After this story the company were rather
quiet and subdued. It seemed to speak so
much of the supernatural, but soon a song
was proposed, and one of the young men in
a clear rich voice sang the sweet old-fash-
ioned song, “Mary of Argyle.”

I have heard the mavis singing
His love song to the morn.
I have seen the dewdrop clinging
To the rose just newly born;
But a sweeter s[-]ng has cheered me
At the evening’s gentle close,
I have seen an eye still brighter,
Than the dewdrop on the rose,
'Tis thy voice, my gentle Mary,
And thine artless winning smile,
That has made this earth an Eden
Darling Mary of Argyle.

This set the company in a happy
humor again, and they all joined in singing
one or two favorite hymns, and then the
company prepared to depart.
George had enjoyed the evening, still he
had wished it were possible to have a few
moments with Elizabeth alone. There
seemed so much to say, and young love is
ever impatient. He could think of no good
excuse, however, to keep him after the
others, and also started to go; but Eliza-
beth’s father called him back and asked him
to remain awhile.
The family seated themselves around the
fire, and the father took Elizabeth over by
her lover and placed their hands together,
saying, “she told me, George, last night,
and I welcome you as a dear son and mean
to help you in your endeavors. Go on as
you have begun, and I will have no fear
for you.” Then turning to his wife and
the other children, he further said, “Eliza-
beth and George are engaged, mother, and
I want you to feel that it is all right, for I
feel so, and they could not be happy with-
out your consent.”
The mother was a little overcome, but
she knew that love matches were the only
happy ones, and that no amount of coercion
would have any effect upon Elizabeth when
once her mind was made up, so she decided
to try and think it was for the best, and
she kissed her daughter very tenderly and
spoke sweetly to them both. George then
showed them the ring his aunt had that day

[Column 3]
given him, and told them its history.
Even if he had been able to buy a ring, he
could not have bought it for at least six
months, when some of the men would be
going back East to help more of the set-
tlers in to the valley, but he was a poor boy
and this was a very great treasure to him,
beautiful for itself, and for its history
as well, and he knew no place so fitting
for it as the hand of his sweetheart,
so he placed it there in the presence of her
father and mother, vowing her eternal de-
votion; and she, sweet girl, was full of emo-
tion. She had never possessed a jewel in her
life, and this seemed a glorious one, besides
it meant so much to her. She was not
gifted with any particularly fine language,
but spoke always from the heart, sincere
and plain, and to-night she said, “You will
never regret this gift to me. I will wear
it as a token of our love and cherish it
above all my possessions.”
“Before you leave us, George, we will
have our family prayer,” said the father;
and then they knelt and praised the Lord
for the peace aud happiness of their lives.
So ended the first Christmas in the Valley;
and that night at least, two lives were
happy and full of bright anticipation.
No home is so lowly or humble, but what
love’s fairy wand can render it beautiful; no
life so lonely or despondent, but when love
enters all the shadows flee. Love alone is
enticing and entrancing; but love combined
with faith is glorious and divine.
