The other boys are not far behind; but

[Column 2]
come, walk close beside me, sweetheart, and
I will tell you of the trip.”
	So, hand in hand, the two young lovers
walked close beside the loaded wagon, ex-
changing experiences of the last few days
and thinking all the time of each other,
roughly and not too warmly clad, but
hearts warm and true and minds clear and
pure as running water.
	“Our trip, Elizabeth, was quite success-
ful, though rather hard. We followed the
creek as far as the road permitted; but
shortly after entering the canyon, it be-
comes so narrow that we made a camp,
where John and I watched the wagon and
cattle and gathered small wood, while
Charley and Sam explored farther up and
found some splendid pines. The first day
they took the axes and ropes and felled as
many trees as they could, and yesterday
John and I took our turn, so we have two
fine loads of logs and two of smaller wood
for firing. Now your mother can have a
floor in her house, and we can all have
warm, cheerful fires for Christmas, if noth-
ing more. The other boys are some dis-
tance behind, though not far. You know
I boast of my good driving, and besides
there was a magnet drawing me on, which
I knew not of. The Lord bless you, Eliza-
beth; for thinking of me, few boys in the
valley are as lonely as I. Do you know
when I saw my mother die on the ocean,
and her body lowered in the great white
sea, I could myself have died. All desire
for life, all future hope left me, and there
on the ship’s deck, death would have been
welcome. My sisters wept, my little broth-
ers clung to father's hand; but I seemed
alone, my heart almost ceased to beat. I
was like stone, no tears or sobs relieved the
dull pain of that dreadful hour. It seems a
marvel that still we live after such suffer-
ing; but the old ship steadily tossed along
the waters, the waves closed over her body,
aud the great ocean heaved just the same;
and life has rolled along, sometimes throb-
bing, sometimes sobbing, but still carrying
out no doubt my destiny. Can you be pa-
tient and wait for me? With your love for
my guiding star, I shall never fail. We
are nearly home now, you must forgive me
if I recall sad scenes, I have never been
able to talk of mother to any one but you
and sister Anne. Now for a little while we
must part, I hope your mother has not wor-
ried about you, for really it is hardly safe
for you to venture so far, and besides it is
against counsel for any of the women folks
to leave the fort after sundown. Wise
counsel it is too, for there are many dangers
in this desert country. You are a girl of
wonderful courage; but as you truly love
me, you must take care of yourself.”
	“You speak of dangers,” said Elizabeth,
“are there any new ones? I cannot think
the Lord will let the Indians or the wolves
harm us. We have passed through so
many hardships, privations and sorrows since
leaving our homes, that surely somewhere
in the world we can find a refuge; and be-
sides, those who ought to know have told
us this is the chosen spot. I believe we
are safe and will be protected here. Yes,

[Column 3]
I will do all you ask. Life is pretty hard
for us; but we are young and strong, and
our love will help us through, so now good
night.”
	So they parted, having reached the North
gateway of the fort. Elizabeth knew her
mother would be anxious, and perhaps a
little angry, for she did not altogether ap-
prove of her daughter’s love affair. So
hastening into her rude home, she quickly
explained that the boys were all coming
and that John would soon be home, though
in fact she had neither looked nor listened
after meeting her lover to learn whether her
brother was near or not, That was only
because she had been so sympathetically in-
terested in his story, for she possessed all
the best, kind attributes of a sister, and be-
gan immediately to prepare something
warm and nice for her brother and to think
of his comfort.
	In the meantime, the young man had un-
yoked and cared for his oxen, and then re-
ported himself to his uncle, with whom he
lived, and who had sent him into the can-
yon for logs. He hinted in his conversa-
tion with Elizabeth about dangers, but to
his uncle he had something quite important
to report. A large number of Sioux Indians
were camped up the canyon, just having
come away victorious from a conflict with
some Utes, and it was more than likely
that they would come down in the settle-
ment and worry and frighten the settlers if
nothing more. At any rate, a visit from
the Indians always meant a dividing up of 
provisions for the sake of peace, and the
people were not any too well provided for
themselves, with a long winter before them
and no hope of any more companies coming
in with supplies before the spring. 
	In pioneer days in the far west, the set-
tlers had to live close together for protec-
tion, and the first Fall of forty seven, the
few families of Mormon emigrants who
reached the valley built themselves homes
of adobes and logs, all as it were in one en-
closure. A high wall of adobes enclosed a
large square, thus forming the outer wall
of the several homes, mere huts, one would
call them now, all facing an inner court.
Rude logs sawn in half made the rafters and
supporting beams, while loose soil was
thrown over the rafters to form a roof.
Some of these huts had doors, and some had
floors, but others had the bare ground for a
floor, and only an open space among the
logs for a door way. There was only the
smallest openings in the outer wall for out-
looks, for there was no such thing as glass for
windows, and the dangers were many.
Great herds of white wolves and howling
coyotes came down from the mountains
night after night and prowled and howled
and tore around the walls, and the Indians
were not always friendly either. So much
care had to be taken to make these homes
secure. In these days everybody had much
hard work to do, and the women were only
too glad to help construct these rude homes.
To them, these walls of logs and mud meant
rest and protection, and a king’s palace is
no more than that. 
	After George had eaten his supper and


