IN MEMORIAM.
	It beconies our painful duty to report the death
of one of our noble sisters of the twenty-fitfh
Ward Relief Society, Sister Matilda Ek, wife of
Bishop Carl Ek, who passed away, Friday Nov.
6th, 1903, after a severe illness. She leaves a hus-
band and family of eight children, three boys and
five girls. She was a devoted wife and mother.
She filled the position of second counselor in the
Relief Society, to the satisfaction of all, and en-
deared herself to a host of friends, but as our
heavenly Father, in his wisdom has seen fit to call
home our Sister to a better life, we the officers and
members of the Twentieth-fifth Ward express our
sincere sympathy to the bereaved husband and
family in their loss, feeling also that they have
been greatly blessed with her wise and faithful ex-
ample. Our sister is not dead, she simply sleeps,
her intelligent part having gone to that bright
sphere, where the just await the time of their re-
demption, when there will be a reunion of the
spirit with the body through the power of the res-
urrection. Having slept in peace, she has secured
her title to be among the heavenly throng that will
accompany the Lord of glory, when he shall come
to this creation to take the reins of its government.
								F. T. N.
	Sister Elizabeth Nichols Berry one of the earl-
iest and most respected citizens of Cedar Fort,
Utah Co., Utah, passed away November 13th,
1903. Sister Berry was born April 7th, 1832, at
Ashorne, Warwickshire, England, and was mar-
ried to John Berry Feb. 17th 1852. She was bap-
tized October, 1851, and with her husband and
parents emigrated from England in 1853, locating
in Cedar Fort, in the spring of 1854. She was the
mother of nine children, four of whom survive
her, five having died before her, her descendants
numbered fifty-three at her death. The funeral
services were impressive and beautiful. Words
of praise were given by her Bishop and neighbors,
also by visiting sisters of the Stake presidency of
the Relief Society.
		RESOLUTIONS CF RESPECT.
	Whereas, God in his infinite wisdom has seen
fit to call from onr midst our beloved president 
and,
	Whereas, we recognized in Sister Elizabeth
Berry a faithful and energetic worker,


Therefore be It resolved by the sisters of the
Cedar Fort Relief Society that we mourn her loss,
but that we appreciate the purity of her life and
the worthy example she set for us to follow.
	Resolved:—That we extend to the bereaved onr
sincere sympathy and pray God that his comfort-
ing influence may be with them and lead them to
know that what is their loss is her gain.
	Be it Further Resolved:—That a copy of these
resolutions be spread upon the record of the so-
ciety, one copy sent to the family and one sent to
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
				EMELINE DUBOIS, Secretary.


