[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | June | Issue: 22 | Title: WHAT SOME WOMEN HAVE DONE | Author: Unknown]

WHAT SOME WOMEN HAVE DONE

	[Read at Miss Anthony's Birthday Party in
this City.]
	That a new and in some respects a distinct
era has dawned for woman, the world at large
is beginning to admit,—but that there is any
precedent for such a state of things few will ac-
knowledge; yet are we forced to the conviction
when we look backward;—that such conditions
were not general in the strict sense of the term
is well understood,—but the exception proves
the rule—and as this is the age when all things
are to be restored, woman too will be accorded
her proportion in the great drama of the
world.
	The subject I have undertaken, that of wo-
man's work, or what some women have done,
is so vast that I can only present a few facts.
I will not take you back to Eve,or to Deborah,
nor to any of the scripture women, you know
their record; doubtless you are all familiar
too with the history of Zenobia, Queen of
Palmyra, which tells us not only that she was
beautiful and pure, but was also remarkable
for her great courage, high spirit, and literary
acquirements, and spoke Latin, Greek and the
Oriental languages with fluency, and that in
the administration of government she com-
bined prudence, justice and liberality, so that
all the eastern provinces submitted to her
sway.
	It is a matter of history that 320 years B. C.
Martia, Queen of London, first promulgated
the principles of the English Common Law in
her judgments and enactments. Her Martian
Statutes or Code outlived the Roman, Anglo-
Saxon and Norse invasions, and we have it on
good authority that Alfred the Great revived
her Briton laws and enforced them among
Anglo-Saxons and Danes.
	Two centuries later they were re-enacted
under Edward the Confessor, and a century
after again by Stephen—therefore the earliest
laws of Great Britain which in substance have
been in force 2,200 years, were made by a wo-
man. Tacitus says of the Britons that sex
was ignored in their government. Cæsar says
that women had a voice in their councils and
power in their courts, and often commanded in

[Column 2]

war. Plutarch says that women among the
Britons took part in deciding on war and
peace, as members of the councils, and that
differences with their allies were decided by
the women. The Domesday book, compiled
under William the Conqueror, in 1070—
enumerated the inhabitants of each village who
were entitled by existing Saxon law to vote
for local officers, and included many women.
Women were chosen members of many Saxon
local assemblies and shared in authority.
	When the Barons wrested Magna Charta
from King John, one of the rights for which
they contended and forced him to grant was
the right of women to a vote in the House of
Lords. He was compelled to summon to that
House all earls, barons, and others who held
lands directly from the King, and he sum-
moned to the very first Parliament the Count-
esses of Pembroke and Essex. In the reign
of Edward I. ten ladies were summoned, en-
titled to seats. There is proof that during the
first three reigns after the existence of Magna
Charta women had a right to a voice in the
English government and exercised it.
	John Stuart Mill said "the list of women
who have been eminent rulers of mankind
swells to a great length when to queens and
empresses are added women regents and wo-
men viceroys of provinces." "It is a curious
consideration," he continues, "that the only
things which the existing laws exclude women
from doing, are the things which they have
proved they are able to do. That women are
not fit for power and cannot take part in civil
government seems to be the cunningly devised
law of men, and has created public sentiment
as the bulwark of the law; and yet it is a fact
that we have as examples, Queen Elizabeth,
Joan of Arc, Isabella of Castile, Maria Theresa,
Catharine of Russia, Margaret of Austria and
in our day the good Queen and Empress
Victoria. To tell in brief what good any one
of these great women has accomplished would
be to fill a volume."
	Women have been distinguished for learn-
ing too in the far distant past, though it must
have gone out of fashion in part, as we are all
aware.
	We know of eminent women in many
countries here and there in the days preceding
the era of our civilization who came into pos-
session of privileges and power; some of their
histories are delightful. For instance Aspasia,
who taught Socrates, is said to have been his
preceptress, the wife of the great Pericles of
Atheus, and the friend of the Greek philoso-
phers; when summoned for trial before the
Greek Areopagus she was charged with
"walking the streets unveiled, sitting at table
with men, disbelieving in the Greek gods, be-
lieving in one sole Creator, and with entertain-
ing original ideas concerning the motions of
the sun and moon." Aspasia was far in ad-
vance of her time, and her contemporaries
could not understand her.
	Hypatia (born between 370 and 380—died
415,) whose pathetic story we read, was another
exceptionally learned woman. Her father was
at the head of the Platonic school at Alex-
andria at the close of the fourth century, the
commentator on Ptolemy and the editor of
Euclid, adding to it here and there a demon-
stration of his own. He imparted to his daughter
all that he knew, and history does not tell us
that she was not capable of acquiring knowl-
edge, or that her brain was inferior to her
father's, but on the contrary Socrates, who was
her enemy, tells us that when she suceeeded
her father in the Platonic school and "ex-
pounded the precepts of philosophy" (in both
Alexandria and Athens) studious persons from
all parts of the country flocked to hear her,
and that she addressed both them and the
magistrates with singular modesty.
	Before she was 27 years of age, she had

[Column 3]

written a book on The Astronomical Canon of
Diophantes and another on The Conics of
Apollonius. Because she was suspected of
having an influence in public affairs, and was
deemed worthy to sit in the councils of Church
and State, she was brutally murdered by a
savage mob, who thought superiority in wo-
man an arraignment of inferiority in man.
	And yet there have ever been some noble-
minded men who were willing to admit wo-
man's equality. In the 16th century there were
books written upon these subjects by men
giving to women in some instances superiority
and also other vigorous writers of the day who
denied to women reason, and considered they
only excelled in iniquity.
	Aristotle and others of his school called
woman "a monster," an "accidental produc-
tion." The Hebrews pronounced her "an
afterthought of the Deity, and the mother of
all evil."
	When the councils of the Medieval church
came together to decide on the instruction
needful to the young, they hastened to count
women out and to declare them unfit for in-
struction, and kind-hearted nuns of the
Catholic church, who in defiance of this de-
cision established schools for girls, were pub-
licly stoned when they were met on the streets.
The early Christian fathers denounced women
as "noxious animals," "painted temptresses,"
"necessary evils," "desirable calamities" and
"domestic perils."
	From the English Heptarchy to the Refor-
mation the law proclaimed the wife to be in
all cases and under all circumstances, "her
husband's creature, servant and slave." Her-
bert Spencer, writing of English laws in his
Sociology says, "Our laws are based on the
all-sufficiency of man's rights, so that society
exists today for woman only as she is in the
keeping of some man." Daniel Defoe in 1696
declared his belief that if men were trained in
the same deplorable ignorance as women they
would be vastly more incompetent and de-
graded.
	In the 15th century there was a marked
tendency to recognize women 'on an equality
with men. In 1697—Mary Astell wrote a
letter in defense of the female sex which
passed through three editions; the same lady also
wrote, "A Proposal to Ladies for the advance-
ment of their true interests." It so wrought
on Lady Elizabeth Hastings,a very wealthy wo-
man of the nobility, that she immediately
offered ten thousand pounds for the establish-
ment of a college for women. At the time
Italy led all other nations in activity, and
was remarkable for her pride in learned wo-
men. Lucrezia Morinello of Venice wrote a
work entitled "The Nobleness and Excellence
of Women with the Faults and Imperfections
of Men;" these were some of the opening
wedges that paved the way for further ad-
vancement."
	The university of Bologna, which admitted
women as students and conferred upon them
degrees as early as the 13th century, elevated
them to professorships, taught them law,
philosophy, and anatomy.
	To the Roman civilization we owe a wonder-
ful development of law. The Roman code of
laws is today the basis of the jurisprudence of
the civilized world. We have only very little
of the survival of the Greek and Roman civili-
zation come down to us. The phenomenal
dark ages set in, and for a thousand years after
the life of the "Eternal City" was crushed out,
the world groped in ignorance and darkness,
and very little progress was made in any direc-
tion.
	Four great events of world-wide importance,
each following its predecessor, caused the
divine in man to assert itself, and there came
into the world a quickening spirit.
	These events have been mentioned as occur-


ring almost simultaneously—the revival of
classical learning, the invention of the art of
printing, the discovery of this continent and
the Reformation begun by Luther. During
the Elizabethan era the great ideas were born
which underlie our present civilization. With
the history of American independence we are
all more familiar,but the condition of women
in this country has been after all one long
struggle for education,opportunity and political
equality.
	In the early colonial days, provision was
made for boys’ schools, and Harvard College
was established; but girls were not included in
any of these privileges, and even in Massa-
chusetts, which boas s perhaps more than any
other state of its educational advantages, and
where the Pilgrims first landed, the town of
Northampton, now a famous seat of learning,
voted in 1788 “not to be at any expense for
schooling girls.”
	Later, in the town of Hatfield, an influential
citizen whose children were girls, appealed in
town-meeting for the privilege of sending them
to the public school which he helped to support
by his taxes. An indignant fellow townsman
sprang to his feet and exclaimed, “Hatfield
school she’s! never!” Yet it was Miss Smith of
Hatfield, one of the sex and probably one of
the girls contemptuously denied a common
school education, who afterwards founded and
endowed at Northampton a college for girls.
There was a bitter prejudice against educated
and literary women in the early days of our
American history, strange as it may seem. 
	Although school privileges were denied them,
their education proceeded through the very
logic of events, and we who live in Utah have
had a similar experience. In laying the
foundations of the new government all ques-
tions were discussed that touched human in-
terests, not only publicly but privately, from
the pulpit and around the fireside. Women
listened and took part in them, and yet when
Mary Woolstencraft wrote her famous book,“A
Vindication of the rights of women;” which
was published in London in 1790, it was un-
sparingly condemned in American circles.
Such thiugs prove that the world has always
stoned its prophets.
	To later times the more recent developments
through the noble efforts of such grand women
in the United States as Lucretia Mott, Lucy
Stone, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and our hon-
ored President, Susan B. Anthony, of the
National American W. S. A., whose anniver-
sary we celebrate today, we who live in this
Republic are greatly indebted for the privileges
of political liberty. In twenty-three states we
have school suffrage, in Kansas municipal
suffrage, and in Wyoming women enjoy equal
political rights with men.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

