[Vol32 | April 1945 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Remember Taylor]
I Remember? Elder Rodney B. Taylor 

Corrected OCR Transcription
RECENTLY while attending a reception in a Utah community, the discussion of the Women's Clubs came up. It seemed that most of the matrons present belonged to at least one club and some to more than one. These women were sort of the town's "four hundred," and spent considerable time discussing the merits and demerits of their respective clubs. Previously, a member of one had referred to another club as the "tea drinkers' club."
This sort of split the community wide open, and at this gathering the crack had not entirely closed. These women were considered good Latter day Saints, and I wondered why more of them did not give vent to their energies through the Relief Society, my pet organization of the Church. They seemed to crave excitement or glamour and to consider the Relief Society a little, should I say, too sedate for them.
In reading our Church history, one is particularly impressed by the number of doleful, mournful experiences our people passed through, leaving one to wonder if they ever had any pleasure or joy?and so with Relief Society. I don't believe the Society puts its "best foot forward." Let me tell you about one of the times when it entertained Nobility, and said, 'Let there be a feast,' and there was a feast."
While I don't profess to remember way back when knighthood was
recall the tail end of the Gay Nineties. Much has been written about the American way of life during this time, but, as Mormons, I suppose we were so busy cutting sagebrush, digging ditches and killing the snakes, that there was not anything very gay about it for us. However, this was not the case up in a little Mormon community in Canada. I'll never forget mother trying to dress up to look like a Gibson Girl!
We had only been up there a few, short years, and had succeeded in establishing an outpost of civilization; it was just a year or two before the turn of the century.
Most of the saints made this eight-hundred-mile trek by wagon train in quest of land. A few were called by the Church to colonize this prairie, and, rather hurriedly, others joined them.
For those who came in quest of land their every wish was satisfied. The prairie spread out for hundreds of miles with not a fence in sight. It was all covered with luxuriant wild hay. Why the grass grew so high that I, as a boy, couldn't find a bare spot on which to play marbles. Prowled up, this land would produce sixty bushels of wheat per acre; however some years we would have a drought, wouldn't raise anything. Most of us, coming from Utah, were irrigation-minded, and so we set about digging a canal and making an irrigation system. Nowadays we get the money from Government and call it a project; but in those days we had to do it ourselves, and we didn't have much with which to do it. Page 208 I REMEMBER 209 It was the first irrigation system in Canada, and caused favorable comments for us, as a people, throughout the country. This was indeed welcome as we had been followed by much ugly rumor from Utah.
Shortly after the completion of the canal, the bishopric received a letter saying that a person of noble lineage, who was also a very high Government official (actually a real English Lord) had condescended to pay us a visit ostensibly to inspect the canal, however we had a pretty good idea that we, as a people, would be scrutinized. At any rate, we were indeed thrilled at the thought of entertaining His Lordship.
Of course every privilege has its responsibilities. There was the problem of entertaining His Lordship which was brought very vividly to our attention by a little English doctor, recently from England, and who was about the only gentleman in our midst. While the saints bragged of having an M.D., it sort of had a hollow ring to us. It seems in those days, when an English boy graduated from a medical school, he invariably went to the colonies to "practice" on the colonials for a couple of years before returning to England to establish his profession. We knew we served more or less as guinea pigs to him, but we also knew that he was better than no doctor at all.
Upon hearing of His Lordship's intended visit, the little doctor was more or less terrified at the thought of us entertaining him. He knew only too well that our facilities for such an occasion were somewhat limited.
There were about fifty houses in the town, some of them being sod. There were also three business houses, a little general store, a blacksmith shop and?you would never guess the other so I'll tell you?a millinery shop! My father ran the general store; he used to advertise everything from candles to coffins but there wasn't much in the store. He used to make the coffins "on order" and I used to dread hearing of someone dying of pneumonia or being drowned to death by a horse, because it meant an all-night vigil for me, holding a light by which father might see to build the coffin. He had learned the carpenter trade working on the Manti Temple before going to Canada, so bending and gluing boards, lining them with white satin inside, and white figured plush outside, and mounting the silver handles seemed to be no effort for him. But as for me, I'd get sleepy and let the light fall over, and sometimes the chimney would fall off and smash on the floor?not only that, but the next day I'd be so sleepy I could not go to the funeral. The funeral was something not to be missed in a country where nothing ever happened except snow, wind, wheat blizzards and more wind. Among the bishopric they owned a pair of beautiful black percheron stallions imported from France. In the event of a funeral, they would be hitched together to draw the hearse. It was an inspiring sight. Sometimes right in the procession they would get in a fight, but several sharp cracks of the bishop's whip would fix them. It was a sight not to be missed by any boy.
And now for the millinery store. It seems the sisters could put up with sod houses, wind, snow, and mud, but they must have their hats. In those days a hat really meant something. A man's standing in the community might be judged by the number and quality of the ostrich plumes in his wife's hat. So you see, hats were important. Hence the millinery shop on this outpost of civilization held a high place.
Mother used to keep her hat on the highest shelf in the house, totalling two or each of us youngsters. About twice a year she made a trip to the hat shop to have the artificial fruit updated, the moths killed in the ostrich feathers, and perhaps a little bunch of flowers added. After a few years of this the hat was indescribable. When mother would reach up and get that hat down, we youngsters knew something big was "brewing," perhaps a long trip, a visit by a  or, in this case, Nobility.
As the day for the reception drew near, the little doctor became a little more panicky. The millinery store became more a beehive of activity. The bishopric contented itself with writing the speech of welcome.
The speech of welcome, we considered a masterpiece. Nearly everyone in town having had a hand in writing it. It started out by saying how proud we were to be residents (not citizens) of Canada (most of us were homesick for Utah). Then it continued by telling His Lordship in a roundabout way what fine people we were, and ended by asking him for a telegraph line, a railroad, a bridge across the St. Mary's River, and a schoolhouse. It was deemed wise not to ask him for too much at one time.
Inasmuch as the doctor spoke very good "Oxford English," it was decided he should read the speech of welcome. Not only that, but the doctor owned a pair of highstepping English hackneys coach horses, and a rubber-tired rig. It was a luxurious outfit to be sure. So it was decided to have the doctor and his wife represent the official welcoming committee.
I might add that this pair of hackneys were fed from seed cold oats in slats in the roof of the hayloft. Their water was equally high, consequently their necks grew straight up. When traveling their heads were very much erect. Should they have been turned out to pasture they would have starved, as they couldn't get their heads down to the level of the grass. I suspect the little doctor of importing these horses to impress upon us that, after all, we were just "colonials."
Nevertheless, I, as a boy, tried checking up the load of my deliveries to see if I could look like the doctor's horses but I didn't accomplish much. The first trip out he fell down and broke the shafts of my delivery wagon.
The bishopric in those days was our police department, fire department, judge, jury and all, rolled into one. They gave the orders and we followed them out as best we could. We knew that inasmuch as the bishopric had brought us through this far, they would have no trouble in entertaining an English Lord. The really hard part of the reception, that is the giving of the banquet, was turned over to the Relief Society. Mother used to say it seemed no that when a job became too big for the bishopric, they turned it over to the Relief Society sisters.
The next few days drifted rather quietly along. The sisters checked their respective silverware and table linens. The bishopric put the finishing touches on the speech of welcome. The doctor and his two hackneys clipped and groomed to a state of perfection. Then another letter came saying that not only was His Lordship coming, he would be accompanied by his two beautiful daughters. To the bishopric this just meant the setting of two more plates; however, Father Bill, to realize the repercussions the news would cause among the sisters.
