[Vol32 | April 1945 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Ten Miles to Calico Part Wright]
Then only five miles gathering wheat stalks one by one. To Ogden.
Only five miles to calTilda carried her gleanings home ico! The words repeated them-each day. She had stretched a tar selves over and over in Tilda's head, paulin over the levelest ground near Five miles to calico!
Five miles to the dugout. On this, every evening calico! It was like a song, she threshed out the grains with a Despite her ruse to avoid meet-flail.
Then she winnowed the ing Frank again before she'd be wheat and put it into a big, old sack dressed up, he saw her in her work-she had found. The sack would hold ing clothes on Monday. It could considerably more than a bushel. Not have been worse.
Tilda was The sparrows bothered Tilda, gleaning in Brother Burnett's field.
Wheat was too precious to have With her back to the road, she bent them gobbling it. She scared the far over to pick up several stalks, birds away with well-aimed pebbles The sun beat on her uncovered from her slingshot that she used to hair, which matched the color of hunt rabbits.
Slowly her hoard of the ripe wheat.
Perspiration streaked grain grew until the big sack her dusty forehead and ran into her bulged.
Blue eyes. It even trickled down In the middle of the second her slender, bare, brown legs and week, when Tilda was threshing into her high-laced shoes. Her full just before supper, Frank Robinson skirt and petticoats were fastened and his grandfather, Bishop Robin up around her thighs, son, rode by.
Frank reined up his Frank Robinson wasn't in her horse as if he meant to stop, and mind. Her thoughts were only of waved.
Tilda had on her brown, her beautiful wheat, and calico. A flour-sack working dress. She didn't voice came from the road.  ?A Howdy, Tilda." She jerked upright, clutching at her half-filled apron, and wrenched around. Her skirts swirled above her knees. Her heart first jumped into her throat, then dropped into her shoes.
Frank sat there on the slate-colored mare, his long legs dangling. He brushed a lock of black hair from his eyes to see her better, and tried to keep a smile from coming on his mouth. No wonder! She looked her very worst.
Breathing quickly, Tilda fumbled to button her waist, which was too far open at the neck. "I?I didn't aim to scare you." Frank's smile came out.
Tilda blushed furiously. Her eyes flashed. "You didn't scare me!" The words were curt and sharp. "But you thought you were smart to sneak up on me like an Indian." She'd seen him look at her legs when she whirled. And what a sight she must have been stooping 'way over with her back to him! "Honest, I didn't sneak up." His tone begged her not to get any madder at him. "I was just doing an errand for grandpa and thought I'd pass the time o'day." "Well, you passed it."
Tilda turned away, being careful not to have her skirts flare out, and resumed gleaning. Now she half knelt as she picked up each wheat stalk.
Frank sat still on his horse as if he didn't understand. Humph!
After a minute or two he went loping down the road.
Tilda crumpled on the ground, her head on her knees. She'd got her legs cut raw, her back nearly broken, her hands looking awful, to get a calico dress so that Frank would think she was as pretty as Clarissa. And how he had just seen her! He had laughed!
What difference would a new dress make now? She wiped her hot, teary face with her apron. It was no use. Her conscience would nag her anyway if she had the calico. She'd be thinking of her mother needing a variety of food instead of mush.
Tilda stood up listlessly. She would finish gleaning, and thresh and winnow the last of the wheat. Pa could take the sackful to town to trade for something to eat that would be a change. Out here all people did was work to get enough to eat.
Tilda saw her mother trudging across the field toward her. She hadn't realized before that ma looked like an old, old woman. She plodded over the stubble as if walking in her sleep. It was from so much hard work. Ma never complained, but neither did she ever seem to take much notice of anything nowadays.
Even of that picture of her precious caster set. "Got the soap a-cooling," Mrs.
Dawson called.
There was no expression in her voice.
Automatically she began picking up wheat stalks and stowing them in her apron. "Thought I'd help you."
Tenderness stirred Tilda. "You got no call to do this. Ma. Go back to the dugout and rest yourself a little." "I'm tired of being in there.
Nothing else to do but this, for awhile. You? you'll get your wheat to town sooner." The lump in Tilda's throat choked her. Ma meant she should
TEN MILES TO CALICO 247 get the calico. Ma was on her side.
Tilda swallowed hard. Then, with the shock as of cold water thrown in her face, it struck the girl that her mother looked like a squaw. Her skin was lined and weatherbeaten, her dark hair lifeless. Her arms were thin and sinewy. Her hands resembled leathery claws.
That stoop in ma's back came from bending, lifting, washing, laboring all the time. The one variety in her life was going to meeting on Sunday, seeing other tired, worn women like herself trying to keep awake during the sermon. Ma had grown old at thirty-five.
Tilda thought, Fm past sixteen. How much longer will I stay young looking? She was awful tired right now. She might wear out even quicker than her mother. Oh, she musn't let herself get like ma!
Whether or not Frank liked her in the calico didn't matter so much. She had to get it so she wouldn't wither up as her mother had done. Desperately, Tilda resumed her gleaning.
That night her father asked if her task wouldn't soon be finished. He hadn't mentioned her work since she started. Why had he asked that?
Rather worriedly she answered, "Yes." 'I?ll get you a piece of twine to tie the sack. You maybe'll have over a bushel.
Still set on the dress goods?"
More worried, she replied, "Yes, sir, and thanks for the twine." Her father said nothing more, but the room seemed brighter to Tilda.
Perhaps pa had joined her side. No doubt his interest was because she had worked hard. He always admired a hard worker.
Tuesday afternoon Tilda worked at her threshing with a light heart. Thump! Thump!
Went the flail.
This was the very last batch of wheat stalks?she wouldn't mind how her back hurt. Her mother came from the dugout with a bucket of water.
Tilda let the flail drop. She sat down against a stump to ease her backache. "Seems like you'll 'most kill yourself just for a dress," her mother said, setting the bucket beside her.
Tilda wiped her forehead with her forearm. She reached for the bucket. "Thanks, Ma." She drank long and washed her hot, red face with the remaining water. She smiled up at her mother. "It's sure nice wheat." "Come winter you'll wish you'd got something heavier than calico." But Tilda sensed that her mother didn't really mean it. The sparrows were gathering near the tarpaulin.
Tilda took her flipper and a stone from the top of the stump. She placed the pebble in the leather piece and pulled the elastics back until the two rubbers fastened to the sides of the fork were taut.
Without aiming, she shot the missile toward the birds.
They whirred away and Tilda replaced the flipper on the stump. "Makes no difference if there is a bounty on the pesky sparrows," she said. "I can't seem to want to kill 'em."
Painfully she got to her feet. Her mother picked up the bucket and remarked, "You don't have to get done tonight." "Yes I do. I'm going to take my wheat to town tomorrow." "To trade just for calico?when you could get?" 

Her mother checked the wish, shadows shd over the surrounding Tilda flushed and glanced down at mountains. The last operation, her dull-brown, sage-dyed, flour sifting, required little time. Finally sack dress. The waist was opened she shoveled the sieved grain into at the neck to where the gentle the fat sack. Before tying the swelling of her firm young breasts mouth with the heavy twine her began. She drew a sobbing breath, father had provided, she ran her lifted the flail, and thumped the fingers down into the wheat caress-wheat stalks at her feet emphatical ingly. V Tilda pushed the sack over and "One more winter of poor fare stretched herself out beside it. She won't hurt us. Ma. I got to get lay watching the sky, where bright that calico! I won't look so dead paint had been thrown all across any longer!" the heavens. The calico in Hor- 'Tretty is as pretty does." But rock's store would be colored like ma's eyes didn't match her sharp that. The piled bolts would make tone. They were tender. "Frank'll a rainbow against the drab, plank like you anyway." shelves. Tilda reddened. She doubled The triumphant sunset was Joath her fists on her hips, left the flail to bid good night, but after a while dangling. 'The dress isn't for him, the colors faded to a soft blend. Ma. It's just to have something Rested, Tilda scrambled up. She pretty for once. I got a right to, took her flipper and pebbles from haven't I?" the stump and dropped them into "Yes. And you're grown now. " "'ge pocket inside her skirt. But how are you going to get your *"pulled and tugged the sack of wheat to town? We have no horse wheat to the dugout. Her moflier or oxen." helped her drag it in. ' get it there." Tilda's blue "*t all you need now?" Mrs. Eyes glinted. "Perhaps somebody Dawson asked, from Burnett's '11 be going to Og Tilda nodded. As she washed up den tomorrow." she glanced at the sketch of the Mrs. Dawson returned to the """ter. There was no dust on it. dugout. Tilda finished threshing. "!,'/? tuckered out. Ma. Coin' to Then she turned the stalks over '4*"? with a pitchfork until she felt sure Mrs. Dawson stopped stirring every head of wheat was off. She the contents of the black kettle that pitched the straw onto the stack, hung over the fire. "Not eating That left only the grain and chaff any supper?" on the tarpaulin. Tilda, looking "Too all-fired tired." Tilda like a young Norse goddess, began kicked off her shoes, crawled onto throwing handfuls of wheat into the wooden chest, pulled the bufair and letting it fall to the canvas, falo robe over her. Her wheat sat It took her three hours to win there in the corner, ready. Oniy now?three hours of stooping and five miles to calico! Straightening and tossing. The {To he continued) ARTS FRO!
