Notes from the Field (Continued from page 253) Second Row: Arlene Cox, Beatrice Cox, Rose Winkler, Amy Rollins, Alice Putnam, Mabel Hayter, Dorothy Fox, Grace Johnson, Bertha Triplett, Etta Todd, Mildred Call, Martha Stewart, Mabel Jensen (second counselor in Relief Society stake presidency). Third Row: Fern Church, Nancy Wright, Lucile Bennett, Gladys Seevers, Maude Call, Dora Davenport, Bessie Sannar, June Hagberg. Fourth Row: Amy Donner, Elsie Jones, Pansy Gardner, Elaine Little, Nellie Richins, Grace Thorpe, Laura Richins.

Thirty-seven members of the Fourth Ward Relief Society, North Idaho Falls Stake, whose service in Relief Society presidencies in various parts of the Church aggregate 306 years.
Service by these women in other capacities in the Relief Society and in other auxiliaries of the Church is not included.
These women are typical of the tens of thousands of Relief Society women throughout the Church who are continually developing their leadership abilities by serving the Society in the various positions to which they are called, bringing to each new assignment the wisdom and experience of their prior service.
Twenty additional women who have given similar service were not present when the picture was taken.
This picture, taken in the Fourth Ward chapel, also shows the lovely mural depicting the five wise and five foolish virgins, which was painted by Robert L.
Shepherd of Salt Lake. His mother, Ellen F. Shepherd, has been an employee in the offices of the General Board of Relief Society for 27 years.
Following is an account of the names and positions which these Fourth Ward members now hold or have held in the past, with women in each group being designated from left to right: Standing Center?Present officers of the Fourth Ward: Pearl Smith, secretary; Kathryn Price, second counselor; Vella Laird, first counselor; and Edna Blaylock, president, now serving their 2d year in the ward. Standing Right?Officers who served just prior to the group now in office: Lula Norton, who served the Fourth Ward 2 years as president, 2 years as first counselor and year as second counselor; Lavinnia Telford, 2 years as first counselor in the Fourth Ward, who alsc served the North Idaho Falls Stake 4 years as second counselor and years as first counselor; Edith Cook, second counselor for 2 years in the Idaho Falls Fourth Ward and first counselor for 2 years in the Leslie Ward, Lost River Stake; Hannah Kel-ley, secretary of the Idaho Falls Fourth Ward for 1 year, who also served as president of Diamond Ward, Oakland, California, and as second counselor in the Oakland Stake for 2 years. Standing Left: Past presidency of the Fourth Ward who served previous to the last mentioned group: Elizabeth Austin, second counselor for 2 years who also
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 255 served as a counselor in the Montpelier Ward for 2 years and as first counselor of the Montpelier Stake for 7 years; Ann Ricks Jaques, first counselor for 2 years who also served as second counselor for 1 year; Ruth Hart, president for 2 years who for the past year and a half has been serving as first counselor of the North Idaho Falls Stake. Seated Left?Back Row: Mary White who served as first counselor of the Yellowstone Stake for 6 years, as first counselor of the First Ward in St.
Anthony for 3 years, and as first counselor of the Second Ward in St.
Anthony for 2 years; Emma Jensen who served as first counselor of the First Ward, Idaho Falls Stake, for 3 years, as president of the First Ward for 5 years, as second counselor of the North Idaho Falls Stake for 6 years, and as first counselor of the North Idaho Falls Stake for 6 years; Mattie Colson who served as secretary of the Taylor Ward, Shelley Stake, for 6 months, as president of the Chester Ward, Yellowstone Stake, for 1 year, and as first counselor of the Emmett Ward, Boise Stake, for 10 years; Mattie Lou Kirby who served 9 years as the first secretary in the Idaho Falls Second Ward, as president of the Second Ward for 1 1/2 years, and as president of the Torrence Ward, Los Angeles Stake, for 2 years; Edith Finn who served as secretary of the Rigby Second Ward for 4 years. Middle Row: Elizabeth Wadsworth who served in the Shelley Second Ward, Shelley Stake, for 3 years as first counselor, and for 2 years as second counselor; Sarah J.
Cook who served as secretary for years in the Taylor Ward, Shelley Stake; Emma Earl who served as president of the Taylor Ward, Shelley Stake, for 6 years; Ethel Park who served as secretary of the Idaho Falls Fourth Ward for 6 months. Front Row: Martha Telford who served as first counselor in the Idaho Falls Stake for 6 years, as president of the Idaho Falls Stake for 7 years, and as president of the Lincoln Ward of the same stake for 6 years; Elvira Steele (now deceased) who served from 1887 to 189% as president of the lona Ward, Idaho Falls Stake, as second counselor on the Idaho Falls stake board for 10 years, and as Idaho Falls stake president for 15 years; Sariah Davis who served as first counselor in the Idaho Falls Second Ward for 3 years. Seated Right? Front Row: Edith Mortimer who served in the Hibbard Ward of Rexburg Stake as second counselor for 2 years, first counselor for 6 years, and as secretary for 12 years; Eliza Jane Smith who served as secretary in Nephi South Ward, Juab Stake, for 163% years; Mary Magleby who served as first counselor on the Sevier stake board for 15 years. Second Row: Maude Spencer who served in the Hamilton (Oregon) Branch of the Northwestern States Mission, 2 years as president, 2 years as first counselor, and 2 years as secretary; Mariann Peder-son, who served in 1898 and 1899 as president of the Randers Branch of the Danish Mission; Martha Nelson who served as secretary of the Palisade Ward, Rigby Stake, for 35 years; Maria Williams who served in the Shelton Ward, North Idaho Falls Stake, as second counselor for 2 years, and as first counselor for 2 years. Third Row: Lydia Thueson who served for 4 years as second counselor of the Second Ward, Rexburg Stake; Veda Wilkinson who served as president of the Mil-ford Ward, Beaver Stake, for 4 years; Alberta Staker who served in the Teton Ward, Rexburg Stake, as secretary for 1 1/2 years and as second counselor for 2 years, as second counselor of the Idaho Falls First Ward for 2 years, and is now serving as Magazine representative of the Idaho Falls Fourth Ward; Ethel Myles who served as second counselor of the Ucon Ward, North Idaho Falls Stake, for 2 years, and on the North Idaho Falls stake board as second counselor for 2 years, and as president for 2 years; Vella A.
Evans who served as Fourth Ward secretary for 5 years, and on the North Idaho Falls stake board, 2 years as secretary, 2 years as second counselor, and is now serving as first counselor. Fourth Row: Sylvia Burr, who served for 2 ? years as a missionary in the Hawaiian Mission, assisting with the Rehef Society at Laie and Honolulu, and who later was secretar}' of the Fourth Ward, North Idaho Falls Stake, for 2 years; Helen Hale who served as secretary of the Pocatello Sixth Ward for 1 year. Interesting Family Group Seventy of the Descendants of William Willis Wimmer and Emma Leonard Wimmer (second row center). At the present time, so Sister Wimmer states, she has five sons and five daughters, fifty-four grandchildren and sixty-one great-grandchildren. The ancestors of this couple came from England, Canada, Germany, and the United States.