		LIBERTY BELL 1893.

	THE women of the United States have 
shown themselves somewhat ingenious as
well as patriotic in inventing ways and
methods of celebrating by means of practi-
cal exhibits for the Columbian Exposition. 
One of the latest suggestions is a proposed 
Liberty Bell, a duplicate of the Indepen-
dence Hall Bell in Philadelphia; this bell to
be made of historic material, so far as such
can be obtained. 
	A Circular of information issued in con-
nection with the work, says in addition to
the title "and as a Permanent Missionary
of Liberty and Peace."
	"Wm. O. McDowell, Chairman Organiz-
ing Committee, Human Freedom League, 
and Founder of the Societies of the Sons of
the American Revolution and of the 
Daughters of the American Revolution etc.
in writing to Miss Minnie F. Mickley, Re-
gent Liberty Bell Chapter, Daughters of 
the American Revolution; says what
could be more appropriate for mottoes and
texts than an exact duplicate of the Liberty
Bell, "Proclaim liberty throughout all the
land to all the inhabitants thereof," and 
"Glory to God in the highest, on earth
peace good will toward men;" this Bell he
thinks should be placed in the most ap-
propriate place in the coming Exposition at
Chicago and afterwards located either at
Liberty Island, Bunker Hill, or the Nation-
al Capital. He also thinks the Bell should
be taken from place to place whenever
there is a World's Exhibition; and adds
one is expected in Paris, France in 1900.
He also suggests in the same letter.
	"That the Board of Lady Managers at
Chicago shall be its custodian, and shall ar-
range for its location, and have charge of
its use, that if the example of America is
repeated and a Board of Lady Managers 
appointed in connection with following ex-
hibitions, that they shall be its custodians
while at the exhibition that they represent.
The use of the bell is to be as follows:
	With the rising of the sun it shall ring
out joyous peals of welcome. At sunset
it shall bid farewell to the closing day.
At 9 o'clock in the morning on the an-
niversaries of the following events and
those of a kindred character pertaining to
the world's progress toward liberty and
peace, the bell shall ring forth in tones of
celebration.
	July 4th, Declaration of Independence
1876. April 30th. in celebration of the
completion of our present form of govern-
ment in its present form by the inaugura-

[Column 2]
tion of George Washington in 1789 as the
first President of the United States. Sep-
tember 17th. the adoption of the Constitu-
tion by the Continental Congress 1787.
December 7th. ratification of the State of 
Delaware 1787 she being the first state to 
ratify the Constitution. The anniversary
of the dates of the different states or their
admission into the Union. April 30th an-
niversary of the Louisiana purchase 1803.
February 22nd, the acquiring of Florida
and the Spanish possessions in 1819.
	May 3rd. anniversary of the adoption of
a Constitutional form of government by
Poland in 1791, also the anniversary of the
adoption of a Republican form of govern-
ment by all the different nations of the
earth from date of the Swiss Federation, up
to that of Brazil including not only Repub-
lics, but governments constitutional where
the control of finances is left to representa-
tives elected by the people, it being as-
sumed that where this is the case the 
plutocratic or hereditary principle, in so far
as it remains in their government will soon
come to an end.
	October 21st. of each year anniversary
of the discovery of America by Columbus,
1492. September 3rd. anniversary of the 
signing of the treaty of peace between 
Great Britain and America 1783. Febru-
ary 6th. anniversary of the signing of the
treaty of recognition and assistance by
France in 1776. December 24th, signing
of the treaty in 1814, concluding the war
of 1812, that freed the commerce of the 
United States from the exactions of the
mother country and established our rights
upon the ocean.
	April 9th, the anniversary of the re-
establishment in 1865 of peace between the
States. May 8th, the signing of the 
agreement to arbitrate the Alabama Claim
in 1871. May 7th, the Behring Sea diffi-
culty 1892. January 1st, the Emancipa-
tion Proclamation in 1863. March 3rd,
the freeing of the serfs in Russia 1863.
November 4th, the anniversary of William
Penn's treaty of peace in 1682, with the
Indians.
	The anniversaries of events that, in the
opinion of the Lady Board of Managers, are
sufficiently noteworthy, or if no such Board
shall exist in the opinion of the General
Board of Managers, such historic days
marking the world's progress by evolution
or revolution toward the day when "the
sword shall be beaten into the ploughshare
and the spear into the pruning hook, and
men shall learn the art of war no more."
	"At 12 o'clock noon on the anniversaries
of the death of the 'creators of liberty,'
it shall toll giving the number of strokes
that shall announce their age at the time of 
their death."
	It has been estimated that the cost of the
bell will be $6.000 dollars; the delivery
and setting in the tower at Chicago ready
for use 500 dollars. All proper allowances
to be made for copper and tin and other
metals used at full market value.
	Committees have already been appointed
from several large societies, (national or-
ganizations) and also a Committee made up
of one lady suggested by the Governor of
each State and Territory in the Union and
by the President of each Republic in the
world. Also by a lady or gentleman sug-
gested by the executive of each one of the
great patriotic societies of the world, and
such other persons as by their life work
have shown themselves peculiarly fitted to
make a work like this successful, and to

[Column 3]
give to the bell thus created the largest in-
fluence for God, liberty, humanity and right.
	The question as to how the means shall
be obtained to secure this bell has been agi-
tated largely in many ways and after all it
is as yet perhaps somewhat uncertain what
can be gathered, or we have very few facts
to state as yet. It has been proposed to use
all sorts of metal relics, even cannon and to
fuse in the composition gold, silver, copper,
bronze and nickel. Perhaps in our next
issue we may be able to give more positive
information concerning this bell.
	The lady whom Gov. Thomas has ap-
pointed to look after this matter in Utah is
Mrs. W. S. McCornick and she will be
glad to hear from any one willing to con-
tribute money or articles of value to be
used in the work. All articles should be
accompanied with a brief history of the
relic whatever it may be and the name and
address of the donor. The women of this
Territory should be as zealous and as ener-
getic in this matter as those of any other
part of the Union, and should show their 
interest by their good works in agitating
the subject and getting contributions for-
warded to Mrs. McCornick as early as pos-
sible. Any one desiring further infor-
mation as to articles, money, etc. should
write direct to Mrs. McCornick's, residence
No. 1, Centre St. Salt Lake City.
	Penny contributions are acceptable, in
fact it is thought, by some, that penny
contributions from children, all over the
land, would alone be sufficient.


