	LADY ANNA WALTON grew more un-
happy as the time flew by and Maitland
still remained so much away, not even his
mother could persuade him to give up out-
side gaieties and sports, though she sought
to influence him in every tender way. She
reminded him of his obligations and the 
solemn promises made at the altar but it
was of no avail, he could not be convinced
of his wrong doing. She appealed to his
love for Anna and his determination to
marry her in the face of opposition as hav-
ing been the cause of serious difficulty be-
tween his father and herself and closed an
eloquent appeal by saying, "My dear boy
are you going to bring more sorrow to my
already heavily burdened life, your father
would never cease to reproach me with
befriending your cause in the matter, upon
which you sought my interference and
which to me was a much greater trial than
you could possibly know—but let the past
suffice, and try to be a man worthy the po-
sition you hold as the only son and heir of
the Walton estates and title, instead of
pursuing a course which must eventually
bring ruin to all our hopes."
	Maitland’s reply was unsatisfactory and
childish, he was not going to be kept in
leading strings, he could not endure
woman’s tears and reproaches, he was 
looking forward to a position of more con-
sequence than to settle down at Walton
Hall to represent H. Shire and he
would be a good husband withal, besides,
said he what does Anna know about men
any way her father was an old tyrant and
lived abroad, a fast life, most likely, and
she can’t say I have ever been unkind."
	His mother felt remonstrating useless,
his father would be no use in advising and
she spoke to Mrs. Bland about the Doctor.
She knew he must have noticed how very
inattentive Maitland was to his wife, and
though the fact was humiliating, too much
depended upon it in the present case to
admit of delay. Already she had warned
her son by telling him Anna’s mother had
died after giving birth to her child, she
bitterly regretted having consented to his
living in London, her hope now lay in the
influence of Dr. Bland. Everything that
Lady Walton Sen. and her cousin Jane 
could devise to amuse and entertain the
young wife was carried into effect, and she
bore up wonderfully in outward demeanor
considering what she suffered inwardly.
Her elaborate infant wardrobe was a
gratification, much of it the artistic work of
her own dainty fingers that had all the
deftness and ingenuity of a French woman,
and she would sometimes speak to her
cousin of her future expectations, saying,
"When we have a little one it will surely
be a tie to bind Maitland to his home,"
though tears and sobs would often choke
her utterance.
	Finally the event transpired, one morning
when Maitland had been absent all night
and though messengers went in search of
him, he was not to be found at any of the

[column 2]
places he was known to frequent. He
came in just in time to hear the announce-
ment, of the birth of a son, and that Lady
Walton was alarmingly and dangerously ill.
	Shocked beyond all control and weak
from having been up all night the young
husband swooned in the ante-room and his
valet had to summon a physician.
	Dr. Bland could not leave his patient and
a strange physician was called in, Lady
Walton Sen. left the unconscious young
mother to come to her son’s couch, her
heart nearly breaking with grief that he 
should have been so indifferent as to absent
himself from home at such a time, and
mortified that he was so physically weak as
to succumb when his assistance, courage and
moral support was most needed. Poor
unfortunate fellow she thought to yield
thus to the seductive temptations of those
who care for naught but pleasure and riot,
who live for show and sensation, forgetful
that she herself was in some respects
answerable for the society and allurements
that had led him from the path of right and
perhaps into sin and wickedness. Maitland
soon recovered and when he was himself
again his mother informed him of his good
fortune that the boy was hearty and well
(a handsome child) and though Anna was
still weak and faint, and must have no ex-
citement, yet the danger was comparatively
over, but added, “you will have to change
your habits of life, for Anna’s life depends
upon the course you pursue, surely this
will be a lesson, supposing she had died and
you away, we knew not where, no one
could possibly ascertain your whereabouts
we tried in vain to find you.”
	Maitland was too much stricken to reply
and only begged to be allowed to see his
wife and child.” I will ask the Doctor when
you can be admitted, but you must promise
me beforehand that there shall not be a
scene, even if you are reproached by word
or look, otherwise I will not permit you to
go in for Mrs. Bland who has never left her
cousin for one moment during the night is
indignant at your conduct and well she
may be.” Maitland was too much morti-
fied to reply and he really loved his wife in
his own fashion, but the prize was now his
own and he held it lightly as many do that
which has been eagerly sought beforehand.
	For some weeks Maitland was attentive,
he seemed quite changed, his wife was
slowly recovering, and his mother had
special need of his assistance for the Doc-
tors prouounced his father's case hopeless;
in fact Lord Walton’s departure from life
was fast approaching. He was most of the
time wandering in his mind and would talk
much of the past, and of Sir Edward, and
when he was told the baby was to be
Christened insisted upon the boy being call-
ed after his maternal grandfather. Within
three months from the birth of Lady Anna's
child, the death and burial of Lord Henry
Walton had taken place, the house in Lon-
don was closed; and the widow, her son, 
his wife and boy installed at Walton Hall
in Herefordshire. Dr. and Mrs. Bland had
returned to their home near the old castle
of the Hilliards and things seemed to quiet


down once more; some anxiety was manifest
about the absent ones Mr. Harrison and
Clair, this was the only thing that disturbed
the evenness of the sweet spring time.
	In the settlement of the Walton estate all
had been most satisfactory, Anna's health
was improving daily and little Edward was
a very promising child.
	One evening when Dr. and Mrs. Bland
were at Walton Hall the conversation
turned upon the events that had transpired
since “Cousin Jane” had taken up her
residence at the Castle, and Mrs. Bland
ended by saying, “what will come next i
wonder, somehow it seems to me the quiet
we are having now only presages a storm,
some important change.” “Do not say
that,” all the party exclaimed at once,
"you are such a prophet."
	“Surely only good can come after the sor-
row that has been,” said Lady Walton,
“but perhaps it is my going away that is in
the wind, though I have not breathed it to
any one, I have fully determined to go to
Italy.” “You are not going to leave us so
soon with this gloom hanging over us from
the recent bereavement?” said the son ad-
dressing his mother.
	“Unless you decide to go with me I cer-
tainly shall, for my health is failing, the
strain upon me, with one shock after anoth-
er is telling and I want to regain my former
vigor and elasticity of spirits, and for years
I have longed to go, now my desire can be
gratified I am my own misstress,” and the
lady burst into tears in spite of her character-
istic self-possession.  And so they separated
for the night, with some misgivings about
the future, because of the sadness that per-
vaded the company when even a temporary
breaking up of the family circle was alluded
to.  Lady Walton had but few preparations
to make for her journey, and only a few
days following the conversation on the sub-
ject left for Italy taking with her a lady
friend as companion, one with whom she had
formery been intimate, a maid and an at-
tendant who had traveled much with his
master (Lord Walton) in foreign parts.


