			COLUMBIAN COMMISSION.

				CHICAGO, February 1, 1893.
To the State Board and Committees:
	THE board of lady managers suggests
that the committees in each state classify
statistics in an approximately uniform man-
ner, and recommends the following
scheme.
	1. Statistics in regard to women in their
connection with the industries and profes-
sions. (This will include those in domestic 
service, factories, stores, schools, journal-
ism, independent business, etc.)
	2. Statistics in regard to the associated
efforts of women. (This will include liter-
ary clubs, religious societies, church
societies, reform associations, etc.)
	3. Statistics in regard to the work of
women in philanthropy, reform, and in
public service. (This will include homes,
asylums, reformatories, etc., founded by
women; prisons, etc., administered by wo-
men.)
	4. The status of women under the laws 
of the state. (This will include the politi-
cal status of women.)
	5. Concise statistical statement of no-
table things done by women. (This would
include deeds of heroism, bequests, scien-
tific or historical collections, unusual
positions held by appointment, achievement
etc.
	6. Population, male and female; crimi-
nal population, pauper population, defec-
tive population. (The last three give both
male and female.)
	These statistics should be in the form of


charts mounted in winged frames, in order
to be easily inspected, and also to occupy
as little space as possible.
	In addition to the charts already named,
it is recommended that a brief but compre-
hensive monograph accompany each state
exhibit of statistics, which would embody
in convenient form the salient points and
the conclusions legitimately deduced from
the statistics.
	Our foreign committees of women are
preparing statistics in a comprehensive and
extremely interesting manner. In the
more progressive countries of Europe this
line of work has attained a high degree of
perfection; their long experience enabling
them to adopt effective methods.
	It is hoped that every state and territory
in the United States will send to the board
of lady managers statistics that will not
only reflect credit upon the intelligence
and energy of American women, but will
elicit from these recorded facts some broad
principles, which will encourage women
everywhere, and also lead men to recognize
the importance of women as factors in in-
dustrial and social effort.
					SUSAN G. COOKE,
Secretary Board Lady Managers.


