U. W. P. C. VALENTINE PARTY.

	MRS. L. S. DICKINSON entertained the
Utah Woman’s Press Club at her residence,
423, 2nd, South St., in this City on St.
Valentine’s Eve, February 13th. Her
pretty parlors were brilliantly lighted and
everything presented the appearance of
festivity. The lady is a graceful and
charming hostess, and the occasion will
long be remembered by those who were
present, as one of the most enjoyable, social
entertainments of the season.
	The ladies were each expected to tell a
tale or reminiscence of St. Valentine’s Day,
or something connected with the origin or
the cause of the celebration, and one or
two responded with incidents, legends, etc.
but for the most part the time was occu-
pied in admiring the various relics and
Indian articles in Mrs. Dickinson’s unique
collection of curios, which seemed to be
almost a private museum. Indeed the
evening was not half long enough to see
and hear of these interesting things. 
	Mrs. Bang who has lived in Arizona, and
Colorado gave some very entertaining ac-
counts of her varied experience in  these
historic places, where the ancient inhabi-
tants lived and flourished long ago, and of
the finding of old and queer specimens of
various sorts of things.
	Miss Burnham, recently from the San
Juan Valley in Utah and New Mexico told
the ladies of the mounds and cliff dwellings,
pottery, and of the habits, customs and
work of the present tribe of Indians in those
localities, particularly of the Navajo wo-
men and their very handsome blankets.
	In fact there was so much delightful
conversation that the hours flew, by all, too
swiftly and the guests were so absorbed in
the details of Indian life, and the long ago,
that it vas difficult to come down to the
present and common place topics.


Miss Nevada V. Davis recited in a very
pleasing style the humorous poem, 
"Zekiel's Courtship" the young lady has a
very clear, well modulated voice.  She
has a charming naivete style which few
possess and is always attractive.
	The refreshments were delicate, cakes,
candies and delicious coffee and the guests
were enthusiastic in their praises of the
unique entertainment.  When bidding
good night each one was presented with the
poem, given below tied with dainty ribbon,
in booklet form, as a souvenir of St. Valen-
tines's Eve. 1893.


