[Vol9 | February 1922 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: The Tate Family Margueritte Cregar Lund]

The Tate Family By Margueritte Cregar Lund We are presenting to our readers, a beautiful portrait of an unusual family. Mr. John "W. Tate, the father, and Mrs. Elizabeth D. Tate, the mother of seven sons and seven daughters, all living but one, constitute one of the most unique and splendid families found in this Church and state. Two of the sons are unmarried; five have filled missions abroad; the oldest son has served in the Philippine war; and one of the sons, Leland S. Tate, enlisted in the recent war but was unable to pass the examination. All of the daughters are married; one to Nicholas G. Morgan, who is a member of the General Board of the Y. M. M. I. A., one to Alfred Hanks, and one married daughter who is dead. The entire family are workers in the full sense of the word. They were born and reared on a farm in Tooele county. They have prospered in worldly affairs and have been busily engaged in Church activities in the various quorums and organizations... All of the children have attended elementary schools and universities. Theodore Tate was in training for two months at the University of Utah preparing for war enlistment. Charles Delmer Tate was on a mission during the war, but registered, so, if needed, he could respond to the call, but the war came to a close before he was needed. John Phillip Tate was a student at the Brigham Young University, at Provo, where he enlisted to fight in the war with Spain and went to the Philippines with the Utah boys. He married Mabel T. McBride, and they have 8 children, 4 sons and 4 daughters; Wm. Francis Tate attended school at the Brigham Young College, at Provo, also. He married Mae Belle Gundred and they have 5 boys and 3 girls. He filled a mission in the Southern States. Joseph H. Tate married Iva Erickson and they are the proud father and mother of one son, who was a student at the Latter-day Saint School in Salt Lake City. George Lawrence Tate attended the Latter-day Saints school and Jater married Alice Minerva Richards, and they now have 4 sons and 2 daughters. He is also bishop of the Inkom ward, in Idaho. Mary Alice Tate graduated from the Latter-day Saints school, taught school several years in Tooele, was president of the Primary for about 10 years, and later married Alfred Lyman  Hanks who is a grand son of the late Elder Francis M. Lyman. Mary Alice Tate and her husband had only one child, a daughter, and she died July 6, 1918. Ethel S. Tate, was also a student at the Latter-day Saints school, and later married Nicholas G. Morgan and they have one son and three daughters. Della Mar Tate married Samuel Campbell; a contractor and builder of Salt Lake City. They have one son and three daughters. Annie Tate attended the Latter-day Saints school and then married Franklin W. Atkin, who is one of the high councilors of Tooele stake. They are the father and mother of three sons and five daughters, and have been on a mission to New Zealand together with their three children. Clara Tate was a student of the LatterJOHN W. TATE AND HIS SEVEN SONS day Saints school and married Henry Hough. They have one son and are living in California: Leuwella Tate was president of the Y. L. M. I. A. Of the Tooele North ward, a music teacher, a play leader of the stake primary, and is married to Alfred Lyman Hanks as his second wife, her sister being dead. Leland Standford Tate attended the Agriculture College at Logan, went to South Africa on a mission, and then married Marinda Brown of Grantsville, Utah, and they have one daughter. Edith Viola Tate attended high school, married Vern A. Brackin, who is a counselor to the bishop of the St. Johns ward, of Tooele stake, and they have one son and one daughter. Charles Delmar Tate attended the Agricultural College at Logan. He went to the Southern States on a mission, and is not married. Theodore Tate also attended the Agricultural College  and is now filling a mission in the Western states and is also unmarried. Elizabeth De La Mare Tate, the mother, was set apart as president of the Young Ladies Retrenchment Association by Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. H. Young, June 18, 1870, which Society was later called the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association. She was a teacher in the Relief Society for many years, and was Trustee for the Relief Society, was set apart as counselor to President Barbara Gowans, of the Primary, when the Tooele ward was divided, and appointed counselor to the president of the North ward Relief Society. Later she was set apart as one of the stake aids which position is still held by her. On MRS. ELIZABETH D. TATE AND HER SEVEN DAUGHTERS March 22, 1921, both Brother and Sister Tate were called by President George F. Richards to be workers in the Salt Lake Temple, which mission forms a beautiful and fitting close to a noble and successful Latter-day Saint career. All honor to them and their remarkable family. It is not too often to repeat the axiom every month, that in order to nourish the body properly we must breathe pure air, eat plain natural foods, exercise our muscles every day, and get a certain amount of quiet, refreshing sleep.