[Vol3 | December 1916 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Nearest and Dearest Ruth Moench Bell]

Nearest and Dearest. (A Christmas Story.) By Ruth Moench Bell. "Look over my Christmas list, Richard, and see if you can suggest any changes." With the expression of one on whom a long expected doom had fallen, Richard reached for the list. Then with masculine directness his eye took in the one important item: "Total $100." Christine had hoped he would approach the sum by degrees — and at the finish of a fascinating list of gifts be won over gifts calculated to win enthusiasm even from a male creature. Reached in this way, Christine felt that the $100 would appear a paltry sum for so many entrancing items. "What do you think of them," Christine asked, to divert him from the appalling total. "Could you imagine anything more delightful for your sister Clara than a glass baking dish?" Christine smiled seductively as she pointed to the article for which her heart yearned. "I don't know anything about those things," Richard sighed wearily. Then with simulated interest, "What was it you gave her last year?" he asked. "One of those casserole baking dishes. And the year before I gave her an aluminum baking dish." "Well, wouldn't they be enough of that sort of thing?" "Oh, you see these glass baking dishes are the latest thing." "I see. And the casserole was the latest thing last year. And aluminum was the latest the year before. Of course, it is all very well to have these latest things if one can afford them. But Tom's income is no larger than mine. Why not select something simple? Why not make her something?" "Oh, I have so many things to make, loads and loads of aprons and handkerchiefs and guest towels. And they all have to be trimmed with hand crochet. It will take every minute till Christmas. And it makes me so nervous." "Why do you keep up this silly custom?" "They all give me something. I couldn't refrain from giving in exchange." "I wish I could get hold of the bell-sheep," Richard smiled enigmatically, glancing up at the ceiling. "I don't know what you mean." "The gang leader." "Women don't go in gangs," Christine, prettily indignant, flashed at him. "Well then, the prototype of your particular clique." "I do wish you would talk English, Richard, instead of slang and big words." "My dear, somebody sets the pace. Some woman stronger minded and more original than the rest of you." Up in the air went Christine's nose and chin. But her husband in amused unconcern, appeared not to notice her indignation. In fact he was delighted that his arrow had gone true, straight into the heart of his wife's pride. "Women and men are like sheep. They all trail unconsciously in the wake of the bell-sheep. My word, I wish I could find her and persuade her to lead her band through another gap." "You are delightfully complimentary," Christine snipped off, "I always flattered myself that I was the leader of our crowd." "So did I, my dear, so did I," her husband agreed. "Then why don't you lead them where there is better picking. The husbands of this band are barren waste, picked over stubble, shad scale, grease wood, buck brush." Richard's voice trailed off into a fit of laughter. "I think you are just as disgusting as you can be," Christine tried hard not to laugh at her husband's absurd simile. "Besides your figure is an exceedingly faulty one. You surely are not suggesting that the band pick Jacob Morse's pockets in search of clover and wild peas or whatever fodder millionaire sheep seem to prefer." Richard rocked with mirth over his wife's clever pursuit of his ridiculous comparison. And Christine, to conceal her merriment, flounced out of the house to visit with Richard's grandma. "Richard has accused me of not being the bell-sheep. And he has appraised himself as very poor picking," Christine laughed as she sank into grandma's easy chair. "And all that after contemplating, unmoved, this list of adorable trifles for Christmas gifts. Do you see anything extravagant there, grandma?" "Not a thing. Not a blessed thing," grandma smiled shrewdly. "Jacob Morse would scarcely notice an insignificant sum like that." Jacob Morse was the one millionaire of the town. And as his wealth was the result of extortionate prices on an indispensable commodity, his name was an unsavory morsel in the mouth of every one. "By the way, did I ever show you my rubbish heap in the attic?" grandma mused. "Never," Christine cried, "and I have been pining to see all those fascinating, old-fashioned things." Up into the attic with a brace of candle-sticks the twain hied. NEAREST AND DEAREST. 691 "Why, what is this?" Christine asked, holding up a dusty. battered object. Grandma surveyed it with amusement. "That, my dear, she said with a twinkle, "is a joke." "A joke?" Grandma gazed at the object quizzically, and the ripple of amusement that had wreathed her features, gave place to sympathetic concern. "On second thought," she said seriously, "it is a wrinkle producer." "A wrinkle producer?" Christine knew that grandma was addicted to cryptic remarks; but this one was decidedly puzzling. "They used to call them casters," grandma continued. "Every woman had to have one. I gave that one to Janet Wilson. She received two others for that Christmas. One was all that any woman could use; so mine went onto the what-not. And every other day Janet had the dismal task of dusting the vinegar bottle, the oil bottle, the pepper bottle, the salt bottle, the red-pepper bottle, and replacing them in the caster for which I yearned." "If you gave it to Janet, I don't see how it came to be here," Christine asked. "I got it by replevying it. You see Janet had given me something she wanted very much for herself. A print of Rembrandt's portrait of his mother, it was. It did not mean as much to me as it had meant to Janet. And one day after she had endured the sight of it strung up on the wall so close to the ceiling that no one could possibly see the sweet, tender face, she burst out laughing. 'I don't believe you care very much for that print, do you, Mary?' she asked. " 'Not especially,' I confessed. " 'I have always longed to possess it,' she sighed. 'I wanted to enjoy it every day. " 'I guess you feel toward it as I felt toward the caster I gave you.' I "laughed. 'And now you dust the caster, and I never look at the picture." " 'I'll tell you what,' she proposed, 'let's us trade presents.' "And we did," grandma continued. "And what is more, we quit making each other expensive presents. A glass of jam or a piece of extra good fruit cake or some little occasional trifle expressed our good will toward each other quite as well, and lessened the sense of obligation an expensive gift imposes." "That is what happened between Clara and me," Christine laughed. "I gave her a beautiful casserole, last year. She had let it be known that she wanted one. Then Tom gave her one. and Edna gave her one. And she never uses all three. Sometimes I have felt like snatching it off her buffet and running home with it and serving Richard a delicious scallop in it." "Why don't you?" "Oh, I can't. And besides I'd rather have one of those glass baking dishes, now. The one I am getting for Clara. They are so much daintier." "Then the casserole Richard worked so hard to pay for, is already doomed to pass upward to the attic, a lonely, isolated companion for this caster which cost my husband so dearly." "Is that what you meant by calling it a wrinkle-producer?" Christine asked. "That is what I meant," grandma smiled. "Attics are full of wrinkle-producers. If women would visit their attics oftener, many of the things for which they long and for which their husbands strain to pay, would remain unbought, especially when they are to go to some one who knows what she wants better than any one else can guess." "It does look silly," Christine admitted. "But what can a person do? My relatives feel that they must give me something expensive." "Which their husbands cannot afford," grandma supplemented. "What do you suggest?" Christine begged. "Why not take Richard's suggestions and be the bell-sheep Lead the band into pastures of quiet and content." "But how can I go about it?" Christine enquired. "Just tell your friends that you are going to give no presents, hereafter, outside your immediate family. Tell them that you are going to consider the "
nearest and dearest" this year, placing his peace of mind before all material gifts. Tell your friends that hereafter you will accept and give nothing but the gift supreme, the gift of the angels, good will." Richard was growing uneasy. The Christmas season was drawing nearer and nearer. And yet no mention was made of the money for the gifts, the $100 so difficult to raise. Christine was kindness and consideration itself. At first Richard was restive and suspicious of the warmth of affection which proverbially bodes ill for a man's purse strings. When the days passed and no attack was made on the slim wallet, a grim fear clutched him. The presents were being charged! The bills in that way would amount to considerably over the first cash estimate. Charged accounts always did. The extra affection was to prepare him for the January onslaught of bills. How deep these women were! — Now a mere man but what was the use? Richard's hand went into his pocket. He drew out five ten-dollar bills. He had schemed and maneuvered to save them to pay on their accounts. NEAREST AND DEAREST. 693 "We ought to square our accounts with these," he said as he handed them to his astonished wife. "But use them for those so Christmas gifts. Don't charge anything," he added. "It is more than one would think of paying, if one paid at once." Christine's eyes caught the worried look in her husband's face, and she yearned to press his boyish head in her arms and set his fears at rest. But no, she had made up her mind to wait till Christmas. "You know we are not to give each other anything, this year," Christine volunteered as a partial concession. Richard merely grunted. He had a distinct recollection of a similar remark made a certain Christmas before. A remark he had taken literally. And when he appeared that Christmas morning and found his sock filled to overflowing and caught Christine surreptitiously removing her empty stocking and weeping bitterly into it, he decided that the ways of women were past finding out. He registered this bit of Solomonic wisdom deep in his consciousness when a woman says "Let us give each other nothing," come provided with the handsomest gift you can procure. Richard made a mental note that he had better get a glass baking dish, like the one Christine had selected for Clara. He had already learned the feminine way of giving to each other the gift you desire for yourself. He was not surprised Christmas morning when he surveyed the array of tissue-paper-covered parcels heaped about his place. With the usual masculine misgivings as to what impractical atrocity may be lurking within, Richard undid the first parcel. He was interrupted by a cry of delight from Christine. "The very dish I was going to get Clara," she laughed, "but Richard, I thought we were not to get anything for each other this Christmas." "I kept my promise as well as you did yours," he retorted as the first wrapper fell from the parcel. Then a look of misery crossed his face as he read the card, "A wrinkle-eradicator for my dear husband." Cold cream! She had bought him cold cream! Richard almost shuddered. Surely Christine knew how he loathed the touch or sight of cold cream or oil of any sort. Truly a man never knew what might happen to him after he married. He undid the second wrapper. Instead of a jar of cold cream, a roll of bills slipped out. Then she had charged the presents. Richard picked up the first one. It was marked paid. So were each of the others. They were the bills he had meant to pay with the fifty dollars he gave her. Somewhat mystified, he glanced at his wife. But she was already by his side, her arms about his neck, her cheek against 
 his. "I wanted you to be happy this Christmas, sweetheart," she cried, "peace in your heart and no worries on your brow. I have been the bell-sheep, too, as you suggested. All of our crowd have taken grandma's suggestion and considered first of all the one 'nearest and dearest.' But you haven't opened the other package I sent you." With eager fingers, Richard undid the wrappings. After innumerable papers had been removed he found only a card on which was written: "This gift, I give to you, the gift of the angels, my unfailing, unwavering good-will. Please God, it is to be yours forever. Never to be dusted or consigned to the attic. It implies no return favor unless you will, and I so merit it, your gift of good-will toward me." "It was the only gift I sent out," Christine cried as her husband folded her in his arms, "but I sent it to each of my friends. They say it is good to give gifts. It expands the spirit. If that is true, and I believe it is, surely the gift of good-will expands and enriches the soul more than any other gift: because more of ourselves goes into the giving. I used to worry over whether this or that present would please. I used to scheme and contrive to extract money from you to pay for things. Sometimes I even thought with resentment of the friends as I puzzled and stitched to please them. This Christmas season, to make good my gift, I have thought with the tenderest sympathy and warmest love of the many friends I wished to remember. I have pledged myself to allow no unkind thoughts to arise in my heart about them. I shall permit no ill-natured criticism of them to reach me unchallenged. And I like to hope that wherever they are today, each is sending her message of good-will to me." "I know one that is," Richard cried, deeply moved, "one whose love is deepened a thousand-fold. I believe good-will is sometimes a rare gift from a wife to her husband and vice versa. And I'm prouder to have married the bell-sheep than I was to marry the belle of the balls we used to attend." It is always something of a problem to find books for children that interest and amuse them while delicately suggesting a moral lesson at the same time. The story just out by Lebbeus Mitchell called Bobby in Search of a Birthday is both appealing and interesting. It is a perfectly safe book to put in the hands of children, and parents will find it full of a touching charm as well. Those who want a Christmas book for children would do well to buy this little volume. Sold by P. F. Volland & Co.,, Chicago, Illinois.