[Vol2 | August 1915 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Home | Title: Guide Lessons - Home Ethics Lesson III - Reverence for the A]

Home Ethics and Art. ETHICS. Lesson III. ? Reverence for the Aged. There is a beautiful discipline of the spirit obtained by those who are taught to show reverence to the aged. Little children who are encouraged to show grandparents kindness and consideration are more easily taught respect for authority in all degrees and conditions of life. Reverence for the aged blesses those who receive and doubly blesses those who show that quality. With the Japanese, the worship of ancestors is a religion. Above all people, the Latter-day Saints should cultivate this charming habit. It is true that some aged people, especially when they become a little childish, are overly selfish, demand more of their relatives, and are less easy to please, than at any other period in their lives. And yet, even so, we who are young, and have health and strength, cannot show too much attention, too much kindness to those who have passed the seventieth year mark. Most men are considerate of aged women, but few children are considerate, unless they are trained by wise parents to show that thoughtfulness to their grandparents in the home. Comfortable chairs, warm seats by the fire, the best food at the table ? all these little attentions enhance the value of the character of those who show them, and make happier the lives of those who receive them. Aged women should not permit themselves to be selfish, and to insist upon having their "rights," as it might be called, or expect attention shown them when there is no especial occasion. Grandmother should remember that the daughters-in-law and sons-in-law should have an opportunity to manage their families in their own way. And also, while it is true that the mother was the pivot of her own home for many years, while she had one, and has been respected and honored as the "mother of the home," when she becomes a grandmother, and lives in a daughter's home, she should gracefully step aside for the new "mother 
 in the home," allowing the younger woman to have her rights and opportunities. Grandmothers find it quite difficult at times to accord the daughter the right of training her children, and administering the affairs of her household, according to her own plan. Interference and selfishness on the part of the grandmother often begets trouble in the home; while indifference and selfishness on the part of daughters and children makes very unhappy lives for the aged. Unselfishness and devotion to each other's interest ? this is perhaps the key-note of happiness in the home, for all who dwell therein. The modern custom of everybody paying all attention to the babies and the children, of giving to them all of the good times, of sacrificing every financial interest in the home to educate and clothe radiantly the young people in the home has relegated the older people to the background, and grandma is almost shoved out of sight. You mothers and grandmothers who read this article, please remember that you should invite kindness and consideration towards yourselves by your own thoughtful treatment of all others in your household. Remember that grandchildren are noisy if healthy, rude if untaught, and their little ways and oddities must be considered as trifles in your eyes. Remember grandmother's birthday. Grandmother will forget and forgive many things in the home if she is remembered on her birthday. If little presents are prepared for her, the children taught to bring her flowers, and to gather about her knees and express the love and affection which they feel for her. She will be happy for a month on such attentions. Grandmother should not be forgotten when excursions are taken. Little parties given for grandmother make the rest of the year very pleasant indeed; while she will treasure up all the little words and actions of those who have been about her on some excursion, and if they have expressed kindliness of feeling, and if they have shown her the attentions that are her due, it will cheer and brighten the long coming hours when she sits unnoticed while the rushing streams of life flow past her forgotten corner. There is a very delightful custom established in the seating of the big Tabernacle in Salt Lake City. Most of the front benches are reserved, apparently, for the aged and infirm; and here they gather, their tired old hands folded, their beautiful white heads and their dim historic eyes lifted expectantly to the speaker in the pulpit; the sight is, one which strikes every stranger, as a beautiful one, indeed. The aged, brought forward, instead of being crowded in the back of the meetinghouse ? this custom might well be followed by every congregation in our Church. Pay grandpa and grandma an occasional compliment. Recall the brave and noble actions of grandfather on some special occasion; joke grandmother about her youthful grace, beauty and popularity. Teach the children to see beauty and holiness in grey hair and bent shoulders; teach them to express love and admiration for the aged ones, not forgetting to notice the handsome new suit grandpa wears and the charming new bonnet on grandma's white tresses. All these little personal tributes brighten life more than we can ever guess. Teach and practice reverence for the aged, in looks, words and actions. HELPFUL QUIZ. SUGGESTIONS. Invite various ones in the room to relate pleasing incidents of their own experience. Read the fifth commandment. ART. Lesson IX.