[Vol2 | August 1915 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: International Genealogical Congress Trip Report]

In the afternoon they all gathered on one side of the deck, and sang hymns and original rhymes, with considerable wit and humor shown in the wording thereof. That evening at midnight, the party were once more taken aboard cars at Sacramento, and the trip for the mountains began. The next day being the last day, a great deal of innocent fun was projected, and carried through by the musicians and fun makers of the crowd. The day was perhaps the pleasantest of all which occurred on the trip, and all who were privileged to be present, enjoyed the happy spirit of the occasion with whole hearts. The early morning of August 6, saw the party stationed in 
 Salt Lake City, where goodbyes were said, and the last hour of the voyage had passed into memory. The account of this trip would not be complete without the mention of the gentleman who had charge of the traveling arrangements, and who accompanied the party everywhere ? Mr. Charles L. McFaul, who is the district freight and passenger agent of the Southern Pacific Railway; he left no stone unturned to give happiness and pleasure to those under his care. His familiarity with California and its history and his willingness to give information at all times were highly appreciated by all. His handsome young son was an attractive feature of the latter part of the trip, for his gentlemanly solicitude and his courteous assistance were the exact duplication of his father. Mr. McFaul's assistant ? Mr. Maurice Tanner ? is one of our own "Mormon" boys, and his assistance and courtesy were of untiring and efficient zeal to all concerned. It is a remarkable thing that all three of the Presidents of the Church were present at this Congress, and took part therein. Likewise, there were Apostles Heber J. Grant, Joseph F. Smith, Jr., Dr. James E. Talmage, Bishop Chas. W. Nibley. All of these, with their wives, constituted a bulwark of strength and power unparalleled in like occasions. President Emmeline B. Wells, and President Joseph F. Smith were both with us. It would seem that she and President Joseph F. Smith are the last two links between the founding of this Church, in official relations, and the present time. Both were in Nauvoo when the Prophet Joseph instituted the practice of baptism for the dead, and Mrs. Wells took part in that initial ceremony in the Mississippi river. President Emmeline B. Wells enjoyed every moment of her trip, went everywhere that anybody else went, saw everything that anybody else saw, and put to the blush many of the younger members of the party, with her faithfulness and her untiring activity. One of the pleasant features of the evening session for Utah Day, was the visit of Mrs. Kate Waller Barrett, President of the National Council of Women, Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, biographer of Susan B. Anthony, and one of the greatest women journalists in America; Mrs. Johnson, the sculptor, who has modeled most of the great women of America. These ladies attended the service in order to pay their respects to Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, and Mrs. Gates, and to listen to Miss Emma Lucy Gates sing. No finer, more intelligent company ever left this state. They were truly representative. It was indeed a goodly company. The following members were present in the party: President Emmeline B. Wells, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune, Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas, Mrs. Lizzie Felt, Mrs. Lillian INTERNATIONAL GENEALOGICAL CONGRESS. 401 Knight, Miss Edith Smith, Miss Emily Smith, Miss Carrie Patrick, Miss Elizabeth Patrick, Miss Florence Ivins, Miss Augusta Ivins, Miss Golda Hyde, Miss Sarah Burton, Miss Edna May Davis, Miss Sarah McClelland, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, Miss Phoebe Harding, Miss Prudence Brown, Miss Edna M. Wadsworth, Mrs. Elizabeth C. McDonald, Mrs. Harriett Leatham, Miss Leatham, Mrs. John Henry Evans and daughter, Miss Ida Felt, Miss Florence Harrington, Miss Jennie Harrington, Mrs. Leonora T. Harrington, Mr. Jacob F. Gates, Miss Annie Lynch, Miss Etta Smith, invited JOSEPH F. SMITH, Pres. Supplies for Temple Uses Those who desire neat, attractive and moderate-priced articles for rent or purchase, for use in the Temple, should apply to Relief Society Headquarters, Room 29, Bishop's Bldg. SUMMER EXCURSIONS VIA The following rates apply from Salt Lake City EAST WEST Denver $22.50 Portland $37.00 Colorado Springs 22.50 Seattle 44.50 Omaha 40.00 Tacoma 42.80 Kansas City 40.00 San Francisco, via Ogden 35.00 St. Louis 51.20 do. one way via Los Angeles 35.00 Memphis 59.85 do. one way via Portland 53.50 Chicago 56.50 Los Angeles, via So. Pacific... 40.00 Minneapolis 53.85 do. one way via Salt do. one way via Portland 62.50 Lake Route... 35.00 Correspondingly low rates to many do. one way via Portland 62.50 other points. Side trip rate Los Angeles to San Diego and return via rail $5.00, and via steamer $4.00, in connection with circuit tour tickets. SALE DATES? May 15, 19, 22, 26, Tickets on sale daily to November 29; June 2, 5, 9, 12, 16, 19, 23, 26 and 30, 1915, inclusive. 30; July 7, 14, 21, 28; August 4, 11, 18, LIMIT, three months from date of 25; September 1, 8, 15. sale, but not to exceed December 31, LIMIT? October 31. 1915. NORTH Excursions to northern Utah and STOPOVERS Idaho points, May 22; June 5, 19; July 2, 3, 17, 23, 24, 31; August 14, 28; DIVERSE ROUTES September 11, 25. Proportionately low rates from other O. S. L. stations. See agents. CITY TICKET OFFICE, HOTEL UTAH UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE Mothers, educate your daughters ? and sons ? to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah.