Living Design Eva Willes Wangsgaard The sun in the west is a luminous red, The snow is immaculate white, Deep blue the expanse of the sky overhead Where stars will stay hidden till night. Unwind seven ribbons from that crimson ball; Divide them with six lanes of snow, And choose from the stars the brightest of all, Eight rows with six stars in a row. And cut from the blue of the heavens a square, Arranging the stars in their place, An ensign your heart ever after will wear And its glory will shine in your face. The Enjoyment of Literature (Continued from page 101) to him. The reader brings to the work personality traits, memories of past events, present needs and preoccupations, a particular mood and a particular physical condition. This, it seems to me, is the literary center in which the teeter board rests. Become obsessed with literature as "'art for art's sake," and the balance of perfect rhythm is lost. See in literature only the practical elements of life, and a disproportionate end weight results. Pure enjoyment comes as a result of balance. S a child I did not like to slide the teeter board far to one end of the pivotal base so that a child heavier than myself could teeter with me. The disproportion in looks and the uncertain rhythm was disconcerting. But give me a mate my own size to balance the board and, hands free, head back to the wind, I could teeter for hours. It is this freedom, this balance of mind and experience, that brings the fullest literary enjoyment, the most rewarding literary experience. In this rewarding experience lies the hope that good literature will influence our lives. It is rewarding to see a pattern of life that is familiar to us. We exclaim, "Why, I've done that very thing myself!' Or, "I know people just like that!" It is rewarding to see in the humor or the tragedy of a book the cue to our own fun, or our own sorrows. It is thus that the author shares with us his own clear vision. There is no end to the enjoyment that literature may bring. When we reach the stage where we seek more than enjoyment, then we can say to the artist, "Give me something fine in any form which may suit you best, according to your own temperament, and I shall enjoy it." How much mote interesting is Rolvaag's Giants in the Earth written to this form, this temperament, than an unadorned historical and generalized account of the same events would be. We need no preconceived, pointed-out evaluation for, since each brings to a work the color of his own experience, each will derive a different element from it. However, in teaching literature in the classroom, the teacher need not abdicate completely nor cease to exert an influence. But let the teacher's position be that of a quiet counselor not of an infallible mentor. Instead, let there be an informal and friendly analysis and evaluation and enjoyment. Literature will then become a potent force in the educational process of developing critically minded, emotionally _liberated individuals who possess the energy and the will to create a happier way of life for themselves and for others. Page 121