Growth Mary E. Connelly The yearning for growth is a divine instinct implanted by the Creator in the hearts of his children; the potentiality for growth is a divine heritage possessed by every son and daughter of God. Springtime is such a joyous season because then man sees all nature growing rapidly—the grass starts up under his feet, the trees put forth their leaves and blossoms, the flowers burst into bloom. In the life of man, too, there is a springtime of growth, a period of rapid development. The baby learns quickly, the growing: child is a source of constant delight because he develops so rapidly and learns so much in so short a time. But it is well to remember that through all man's existence he is capable of growth, or becoming more and more like his heavenly Father.: History's pages are replete with examples of those who, even in their declining years, accomplished great things: at seventy-four Verdi gave the world "Othello" which is often rated as his masterpiece, and his ''Te Duem" was composed at the age of eighty-five; Titian finished his "Last Supper' when seventy-seven and when ninety-eight painted the "Battle of Lepanto;" Michael Angelo completed the great cupola of St. Peters when eighty-seven; Chaucer wrote The Canterbury Tales when past sixty; Dante wrote his wonderful epic when nearly seventy; Bacon gave the world his masterly Novum Organum when fifty-nine; Kant, his Critique of Pure Reason when fifty-seven; Milton when fifty-seven and blind wrote Paradise Lost; Tennyson wrote Crossing the Bar when eighty-three; Robert Browning did his greatest piece of work, The Ring and the Book, when he was past sixty; Commodore Vanderbilt increased one hundred and twenty miles of railroad to ten thousand miles and added one hundred million dollars to his fortune when he was between seventy and eighty: three; Oliver Wendell Holmes was a professor at Harvard when eighty; Gladstone and Bismarck were controlling powers in the politics of Europe when both were past seventy-five; Chevreuel, the great scientist, was actively at work until his death which occurred when he was one hundred and three. Frederick B. Robinson says, "In his youth a man has two or three mental searchlights to play on any object whose recesses he would lay bare. Experience, observation, and ripened maturity add light after light. But by the time he has reached middle age he should have a battery of forty searchlights in place of the small cluster of his youth. He is wise who will keep them trimmed and burning and direct them with a steady hand." It is man's duty to keep alive the yearning for growth by feeding the desire. It is wonderful to live in a world where there 
 are so many things to be learned, so many difficulties to be overcome, so much to be mastered; where day by day, year by year, through struggle and calm, through pain and joy, through failure and success, through periods of activity and through times of rest, man may grow and develop and learn and be polished. No matter what the handicap, advancement is possible, Helen Keller, deaf, dumb, and blind has become one of the best educated women in America. Michael Angelo when old and blind groped his way into the gallery of the Vatican. He felt the torso of Phidias and as he did so said, "Great is this marble; greater still the hand that carved it; greatest of all, the God who fashioned the sculptor. I still learn! I still learn!" Sight gone, his sense of touch brought food for thought to his mind and he drew deductions and his spirit went out in admiration and worship to his Creator. Beethoven when afflicted with incurable deafness said, "I will keep up the struggle against the rigors of fate. They shall not succeed in bending me to the earth—I swear it." Nor sickness, nor poverty, nor hardship, nor difficulty, nor trouble have succeeded in keeping the intrepid soul from reaching the heights. Some growth comes rapidly and is easily seen; other growth that is quite as valuable comes slowly and the individual is often unconscious of the change that is taking place within him. Every effort, every experience, leaves its mark and change in man's body structure and. In his future potentiality. Man is ever in the making; all eternity is his to make of himself a god, and the exhortation, '"Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect," is a clarion call urging him on. The President of Oberlin College was asked by a student if he could not take a shorter course than the one prescribed by the institution. "Oh, yes," he replied, "but that depends on what you want to make of yourself. When God wants to make an oak he takes one hundred years, but when he wants to make a squash he takes six months." It is not strange that it takes eons of time to bring to perfection the most important thing in the world—the high-minded, intelligent human being who has within him the germ of Godhood and the impulse to reach up and grow to become like his Sire. Infinite are the processes and many are the means used to attain this desired end. Schools give an impetus to the child or adult who takes advantage of the opportunities they offer. Books feed the mind and enrich the life. Reading, questioning, studying, reflecting, these are mile posts along the path of progress. Mingling with those who live splendid lives, commtining with the wise, conversing with the learned, bring to higher planes of thought and action. Attendance at plays, lectures, musicals, brings an emotional uplift, a forward look, an understanding heart that enriches the life and develops the whole being. Keeping in touch with the rapidly onward moving world, traveling and seeing the beauty to ibe found everywhere brighten the intellect and elevate the soul. All see the advantages of these things, but many there are who fail to see in suffering and trouble and pain avenues of growth and development that are quite as important in enriching the life and giving breadth of vision and in bringing the graces of life to those who pass through them as are the more pleasant paths. The wounded learn to heal; the heavily oppressed, to minister; the sick, to be patient and sympathetic. Are not patience, gentleness, trustful waiting, charity, worthy of the high price exacted for their purchase?' Channing showed how days of physical weakness may be fruitful in bringing most valuable growth. When he found himself physically exhausted after the delivery of a sermon or oration he gave up the pulpit and the pen and determined to make his life a sermon and poem. He said: "It is indeed forbidden me to write or speak, but not to aspire and be. To live content with small means; to seek elegance rather than luxury, and refinement rather than fashion; to be worthy, not respectable, and wealthy, not rich; to do all cheerfully, bear all bravely; to listen to stars and birds, to babes and sages, with open heart; to study hard, think quietly, act frankly, talk gently, await occasions, hurry never—in a word, to let the spiritual, unbidden and unconscious, grow up through the common, this is to be my symphony." In the great economy of things when the lessons have been mastered man passes on to other rooms of growth; now he does this, now that, thus learning to readjust himself to changing conditions and circumstances, casting off, putting on, and, as Browning. Puts it, rejoicing that he is "hurled from change to change unceasingly his soul-wings never furled." And when failing powers make activity impossible, still is there opportunity for growth. Then man has to learn that "they also serve who only stand and wait." There is a serenity and poise and beauty that comes in this period after the heat and burden of the day have been endured. This time of waiting for the great adventure, and of looking into futurity brings a realizing sense of man's immortality, and there comes a sweet trust, an unwavering faith, a joyous anticipation that give a crown to life and fits for a heavenly home. Blessed is man with his upward striving impulses, his capacity for endless growth and the countless opportunities that he has to aid him in his upward climb. Well may he cry: "Then, welcome each rebuff That turns earth's smoothness rough, Each sting that bids not sit nor stand, but go! Be our joys three parts pain!