[Vol38 | March 1951 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Fiction | Title: 172 Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue]
The  Story  of  the  Mormon  Pioneers;  Den- 
nis and  the  Mormon  Battalion;  Famous 
Mascots  and  Kqs;  and  Storytime.  My  ac- 
tivities seem  to  have  followed  the  same 
number,  for  I  have  also  served  on  five 
stake  boards.     I  believe  that  I  have  held 
every   position   in    the   women's   Church 
organization    from    organist   to   president, 
with   the   exception   of   secretary.     Most 
recently,  and  I  believe  the  most  enjoyable, 
was  as  literature  leader  last  year  in  the 
Thirty-First  Ward   Relief   Society.     Our 
family  has  since  moved  into  the  Garden 
Park  Ward.  I  have  been  chairman  of  the 
Barnacles  writing  group,  president  of  the 
Salt  Lake  Chapter,  League  of  Utah  Writ- 
ers, and  am  currently  State  president  of 
the    League.      My    hobbies    are    music, 
needlepoint,    and    gardening — the    latter 
much  more  in  theory  than  in  practice." 
I  am  sending  a  number  of  new  sub- 
scriptions to  The  Relief  Society  Magazine. 
The  first  name  on  the  list,  is  a  man, 
Brother  Reginald  D.  Shaffer,  a  new  con- 
vert to  the  Church.  He  is  a  very  faithful 
member. 
— Ruby  H.  Lundberg,  Malad,  Idaho 
Please  renew  my  subscription  to  The 
Relief  Society  Magazine.  It  is  all  I  have 
of  Relief  Society  since  moving  out  here, 
and  as  there  are  no  visiting  teachers,  I 
still  get  the  messages  from  the  Magazine. 
— Mrs.  Luetta  Gilchrist,  Mackay,  Idaho 
Page  144 
I  am  sending  a  number  of  new  sub- 
scriptions. The  Magazine  always  gives 
me  a  thought  for  each  day. 
— Iletta  D.  Reid,  Panguitch,  Utah 
It  is  a  pleasure  to  again  this  year  receive 
The  Relief  Society  Magazine  as  a  gift  from 
my  mother.  I  wish  to  express  my  ap- 
preciation to  all  of  you  for  the  continued 
variety  of  inspiring  messages  it  brings 
each  month.  Kindly  note  address  change, 
as  I  am  anxious  to  receive  the  Magazine 
after  my  arrival  in  the  Near  East. 
Miss  Maud  Pearson,  Baltimore,  Maryland 
New  address:  Beirut,  Lebanon 
In  1948  the  April  issue  of  the  Maga- 
zine published  a  special  short  story  by 
Dorothy  Clapp  Robinson  entitled  "The 
Gift"  (page  224),  which  is  one  of  the 
many  short  stories  I  have  enjoyed  reading. 
But  there  is  not  a  gift  more  tenderly  re- 
ceived by  me  than  The  Relief  Society- 
Magazine.  With  every  number  there  is  a 
new,  original  design  on  the  cover  shining 
with  beauty.  One  special  feature  article, 
"And  This  Is  Life  Eternal,"  written  by 
Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  (April  1949,  page 
222)  should  be  a  lasting  memory  to  every- 
one who  reads  it.  The  features  and  the 
poetry  are  all  timely  contributions  to  lit- 
erature, and  are  indeed  a  rich  inheritance 
gained  from  our  pioneer  parents,  as  of 
my  own  mother,  Eliza  Stephensen  Winn, 
who  gave  immeasurably  to  the  cause  of 
Relief  Society.  She  was  a  guiding  light 
to  a  large  family  where  she  resided  seventy