[Flower Arrangements for Springtime by Dorothy J. Roberts]

Flower Arrangements for Springtime Dorothy J]. Roberts IKE music, flowers speak a universal language. They tell of refinement, gentleness, and love of beauty; of festivity, of trib-. Ute in joy or sorrow. A life is given — or one is taken away, and the eloquence of flowers received, is understood, interpreted in the language of the heart. From their throats come the message of solace, the voice of peace, or the song of spring. Enhanced by harmonious containers and settings, flowers can bring distinction to the plainest surroundings. Let each woman try her hand at more original and gratifying arrangements. Of the growing things at her command. She will develop her personality and delight her family and friends. CONTAINERS Plain containers are best for general use. Ornate vases are hard to harmonize with various flowers and _ backgrounds. Pale, pastel colors, dull greens, blues, and ivories, whites, and browns are good. Use a shallow, oblong bowl for low arrangements, and an urn and a taller bowl or Square type container for taller designs. Wide-mouthed containers are more convenient than narrow-necked ones. But don't be content with only these conventional containers. Have a daring eye, open for anything to fill your need, as plates, platters, vegetable dishes, tureens, bowls, compotes, goblets, chocolate pots, odd bottles, sprinkling cans, or brass, copper, silver, pewter, and wood articles, weathered pieces of wood or tree stumps. Some containers may be painted with oil or water-mixed paints. Willard Luce FLOWER HOLDERS The best for all purposes are the heavy lead-base, needle-point holders in various sizes. Impale the flower stems firmly on the sharp needle points. Use for all shallow containers. Hide them well with petals, blossoms, foliage, pebbles, or rocks. FLORAL CLAY Clay must be kept dry until the arrangement is completed. Put a piece on the bottom of the needle holder, then press firmly to the bottom of the container. This will hold heavy arrangements from falling. Use also on top of the needles to keep small stems in place.  
178  W. Atlee Burpee ARRANGEMENT OF ALLDOUBLE PETUNIAS (AMERICA) WIRE IN VASES A strip of chicken wire about two inches wide, crumpled up into tall vases or the necks of narrow-necked jars will hold flowers in place.
ROCKS AND PEBBLES
Dark, weathered and pitted rocks are useful and ornamental in weighting down a flower holder. Pebbles serve a like purpose. FLORIST WIRE Use to twine around stems and flowers or through stems to shape them. You will need a heavy and a light gauge. ELASTIC BANDS, RAFFIA, -AND STRING Tie small flowers, as pansies and violets, into bunches before arranging. DISCS Circles of plywood, painted to harmonize, and used as a background, will dramatize and add interest to some arrangements, if you do not have copper, brass, silver, or other colored plates on hand. - FIGURINES Colorful or graceful figurines used in the proper place will enhance many arrangements. They should be used only after thought and planning, and placed inside or outside the container. Ducks would be appropriate in or beside low dishes where the water shows. Birds go with boughs or many flower types. Human figures should be used in scale, so neither the figure nor the arrangement dwarfs the other. Line or color in the figurine may be repeated in the arangement. | FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS FOR SPRINGTIME FOLIAGE Develop an open mind toward foliage to use with flowers or alone. Unrelated leaves often lend new grace to a flower. Borrow from weeds, shrubs, ferns, grasses, or potted plants. Combine ivy, trailing to the tablecloth, with stiff flowers. Try all-green arrangements, or one of variegated greens, vegetables not excluded. Remember, Salina said in So Big, "Cabbages are beautiful!" Many leaves can be brightened to a rich sheen with cotton dipped in oil. The delicate young green of boughs "forced" into early bloom is delightful. FLOWERS What a panorama of color and form bursts upon the mind at the word. For the first breath of spring, go outdoors in February or March and prune off a few boughs from any flowering shrub or tree 179 and "force" them into bloom a month early by bringing them into the house and putting them in deep water. They will burst into delicate bloom in a week or two, more or less, and will last as long or longer than those matured in the garden. Their stems, along with all woody stems, should be pounded with a hammer, from the ends up about two to five inches; not enough to break, but just to bruise them. This allows for more absorption of water. Try this on pussy willows, Forsythia, flowering quince, and almond, bridal wreath, apple, currant, pear, jasmine, alder, and honeysuckle. The twigs of plants which bear only leaves are beautiful, too, the horse chestnut, beech, birch, oak, mountain ash, maple, and barberry. Then soon the early spring flowers, hyacinths, pansies, daffodils, tulips, will be out and are effective combined with the blossomed twigs. And don't scorn the dandelion. Pick it with W. Atlee Burpee ' NEW GIANT SWEET PEAS (FRAGRANCE) These blossoms are exceedingly fragrant, large, beautifully ruffled, heavily duplexed, and they grow on long, strong stems. 180
The Hograth Curve, called "The Line of Beauty," is a relaxed "S". Se Blue ducks go with the water which is visible in this flat container, a white bowl, lined in blue, and with spring blossoms set in a needle holder, off center in the dish. 
The triangle, especially the asymetrical triangle, is a form which has been developed into a fine art by the Japanese. To them, the form symbolizes heaven, earth, and man.
This container is a piece of weathered wood with spring blossoms and daffodils set in floral clay. The figure of the faun is appropriate here. The "Crescent" is patterned after one of the loveliest forms in nature, the crescent moon. In this design daffodils are combined with pussy willows and Forsythia, bent into shape while the stems were wet and tied with strings until the curves were set. FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS FOR SPRINGTIME tall and short stems and combine it with other flowers. Don't neglect the blossoms of any weed or vegetable as an addition to your arrangement.
Their possibilities are suggested in the many illustrated books on the subject. Be daring with color. The daring, dramatic, or stirring, or the restful and cool effects.
Flowers should be picked in early morning or late evening, and immediately set in deep containers filled with cold water to "harden" for a few hours, or overnight. All flowers should be treated in this manner; they will last longer and are more manageable for arranging.
Clip the stems various lengths for effect as you make the design for your floral arrangement.
Select flowers from buds to full bloom for variety. W. Atlee Burpee Make trials for - 181 ARRANGING _ A flower arrangement should be a living picture; having all the elements of a piece of art.
Strive for beauty of line and contour in your pieces.
Never push all the blooms it will hold into a container. The accompanying illustrations emphasize "'line."
These types of lines can be filled in with more flowers and foliage for variety. 'These are some of the more popular types used in modern flower arranging. The better known styles of "mass" arranging are omitted.
Join in the pleasure of combining color and line, in flowers, foliage, and containers, with sometimes figurines and other accessories, to make works of art all your own! ARRANGEMENT OF SUNNY MARIGOLDS Growing Pains Dorothy Clapp Robinson KEETS heaved himself up the last two yards to the top of ~ the hill.
Safely there he stopped to blow.
Bill shifted in the saddle as his glance went swiftly, then carefully, over the pageantry unfolding about him. The undulation of hills, spotted with jack pine and seamed with canyons, moved majestically among shifting cloud curtains.
Nothing in sight. He reached for the glasses that hung on his saddle horn and lifted them to his eyes.
Still nothing, except those warning curtains. An aching heaviness settled the boy deeper in the saddle.
Those colts must be somewhere near. For days he had ridden the lower slopes without a glimpse of them. A cold wind struck his face and his hopes soared.
Maybe the wind would drive the clouds away.
More likely it would close the curtain completely.
Something was haywire for, with this weather, the horses should have been headed for the valley. "Let them go," Jake, Mom's new husband, had said last night. "Colts have wintered out before and, with this spell of weather on the way, you are more likely to run into trouble than horses." "Yes," Mom _ had _— echoed. "They'll come home when they get hungry."
Bill hadn't answered that. Mom could sure play dumb sometimes. She knew as well as Bill that there were several reasons why a horse might not come back to the ranch.
Every fall Dad had combed these hills for colts and geldings that had summered out., Page 182 "Rings is with them." Mom had blinked hard at that, but almost at once had asked, "How do you know?" "Because I know, and he's the one I'm " "He knows his way around," Jake had interrupted, "and if he doesn't he isn't worth the risk you are taking.
There is a bad storm brewing. Don't leave the ranch tomorrow.": "And who are you to be giving me orders?"
Bills eyes had demanded, but because of Mom he had kept quiet. He would never forgive Jake for that crack—never. And he would never treat him as a father, even if he was Mom's new husband.
Rings was all that Bill had left now that Mom had turned traitor. A year last summer to have seen Rings was to have seen Dad, and the other way about. Why, that horse was practically human. That's why he had run away.
Bill might try it himself. He would like to run so fast and so far he would leave behind forever the aching emptiness left by Dad's going. He had thought he was forgetting a little when this situation over Rings had come up.
Maybe if he and Rings tried they could find that mysterious place where Dad was. _ Kid stuff! He shook his head to clear his eyes. It didn't do much good. Oh, well, he could baw! All he wanted. 'There was no one to see or care since Mom was so wrapped up in Jake. His mouth tightened stubbornly.
After that crack by Jake he would find Rings or die trying. GROWING PAINS Now Bill turned in the saddle and looked back the way he had come.
Through a break in the hills he could see the toy buildings that marked the Home Ranch, and back of this last ridge, but out of sight, was the Halfway Ranch. The men there still hadn't gone to the valley for the winter. A stinging wind struck his face. It felt like snow and he'd better get a move on. No one but Dad had ever found his way out of these hills. In a blizzard.
Jake had been right about one thing, Rings did know his way around, and that was why he should have been home. And every horse had his blind spot, even Rings.
Skeets jumped at an unexpected dig with the spurs and started to run down the short slope. He was still running when the upward slope of another hill slowed him. Again Bill searched the landscape.
Skeets grew restless but was held by the pressure of his rider's knees. HE drifting clouds had massed for an attack. The hills were a confusing hotchpotch of dull lights and darker shadows.
Back of the hills the mountains thrust their white peaks above the clouds.
Bill was alone in a world of silence and space. Why hope to find a horse in this expanse of eternity?
With a grunt of despair Bill dropped his glasses, then raised them abruptly.
Something had moved, a shadow had emerged from a clump of pines. Bill's heart knocked hard against his ribs. It was a horse.
Skeets jumped at his yell of triumph, but headed north by east as the reins directed. The ground was seamed by gulches and 183 stippled with shrubs and boulders, but they pushed relentlessly ahead. It was not far as the crow flies, but Skeets was not a crow. The next time Bill stopped to look he had trouble locating the spot.
When his eyes finally caught it he expelled his breath with relief. It was Rings. He could tell by his size and by the way he held his head.
There was something so like Dad in the proud free way the horse threw his head. The sight brought back the aching. The colts were there, too, but they were milling around instead of traveling.
Bill knew the spot. It was a bare high knob jutting out from a broken point of the mountain. He and Dad had often passed there when they went fishing in Crystal Lake. The knob and Crystal Lake brought fresh memories of Dad and of home that wasn't a home any longer. If only Dad hadn't tried to ride that black bronc. He had.
Ridden wilder ones, but this time something had slipped. Later Jake had shot the bronc, but that hadn't brought Dad back.
Jake had been foreman of the Home Ranch ever since Bill could remember. He had a place joining on the south, but ever since his wife's death he had lived with the rest of them. Now he was running the Home Ranch and trying to run Bill.
Some day Bill would run that ranch himself with no help from anyone—least of all Jake. It took a long half hour to reach the slope opposite the knob.
Bill saw at a glance why the colts weren't traveling.
There was but. One way down from the knob and that way lead across a steep narrow cut.
From there it zigzagged 184 down to meet the forestry road.
There was no snow on the bluff, but a blanket of it lay across the gulch.
Undoubtedly the horses had taken shelter in the grove of trees during an earlier storm, and when it was over snow blocked their way either up or down.
With all their sense, horses were sure dumb about some things.
They might break through a fence but they would never cross the snow. "Hi, Rings!". A dark roan, with white rings about his eyes, had been watching their approach. At Bill's greeting _ he came galloping down the short slope, but stopped abruptly at the edge of the snowdrift. He tossed his head and whistled excitedly.
Bill swung from the saddle and went to stand opposite him.
With reins dangling, Skeets followed. "You are half-starved." HERE was a deep hollow below the horse's hip tibs could be counted at a glance. The colts had taken an even harder beating. A quick look at the trees in the background showed how hungry they were. "Come on, Rings, come on across."
Bill took a handful of oats from his pocket and held it out coaxingly. 'The horse sniffed and stepped forward gingerly.
Bill held his breath as one powerful foot after another tested the snow.
Rings gained confidence, but abruptly one leg sank to the shoulder in snow.
Squealing with terror, the horse plunged back to solid footing, nor. Could Bill coax or threaten him into making the attempt again. The yearlings had followed Rings down the slope and, excited by Bill's coaxbone, and his. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951. Ing, they milled about the older horse. _ Hunched so the collar of his sheepskin jacket protected his head, Bill considered. The only way to release these cayuses was to break a trail for them, but it was now or never. If he took time to go for help the storm would block the passes before he could get back. "No horse is worth the risk you are taking," Jake had said.
Maybe not. If he had a gun he might shoot them, but now that he was here he wasn't leaving them to starve.
From the looks of them, that wouldn't take too long. Tentatively Bill put out a foot to test the snow.
There should be a crust from an earlier storm that would hold his weight. The gulch was twenty or thirty yards across, but the snow might vary from six inches to twenty feet in depth. He studied the slope to determine where the gulch might be the shallowest. The colts followed Rings back and forth slowly, as if they had no part in what was going on.
Bill started across. He had gone a dozen feet when the crust broke and he was floundering in snow to his armpits.
Panic seized him, and he twisted about and fought his way back to solid footing. He stamped hard, beating the snow from his boots and levis. He beat his hands together to warm them. He looked about for help but there was none.
There were only the hills and the silence and the storm that was coming his way on the double. A few stinging flakes struck his face and sifted under his collar. "T can't do it." He turned, and Rings, as if sensing his doubt, whinnied softly.
Misery clouded the GROWING PAINS boy's eyes. "If I stop to help you out the storm will take you and me, and the colts." Wasn't that what Jake had said? But Jake—with vivid clarity, a memory came to Bill, something out of his life with Dad. The time had been the Fourth of July and the occasion a community rodeo. His Dad had won several events, and Bill had decided he wanted to ride a calf. "No," his father had told him several times, "you will get hurt." No, I won't." "But you will. In five years you may ask me again." But Bill had persisted. "I ride them at home all the time and I want to try." "All right." Dad's mouth had looked grim even to a six-year-old. "You might as well have your lesson right now, but don't expect sympathy.": ILL still remembered the awful sting of the sand as he had plowed face first into it. He had wanted horribly to cry, but he had blinked hard and steeeied away. The next thing he remembered he and Dad had been sitting on high stools sipping ice cream sodas. The cool inside his throat helped a little to make him forget the burn on his face and hands.
That night Mom had laid them both out while she was trying to wash the grains of sand from his face. "When a man asks for something," Dad had answered, watching the washing with one eye and his paper with the other, "he has to take what he gets." Okay. He had lived through that, he could live through this— 185 maybe.
Skeets could help.
Bill uncoiled a rope from his saddle horn and tied the loose end about his waist. If he got in too deep he could climb out hand over hand. "Hold it," he told Skeets. The frozen ground creaked under his boots.
Bill studied the slope carefully and chose a spot slightly below where he had tried before. Carefully, tentatively, he pushed one foot ahead of the other. Maybe, just maybe, he would have luck all the way across.
Here the blanket might be shallow enough to—the thought ended abruptly, as one leg went through the crust.
Once broken, the snow refused to hold him. For a frightening moment he foundered, but gradually his feet packed the snow so he could work forward. He shuffled and stamped, going ahead by falls rather than by steps. In five minutes he had broken into a sweat that chilled instantly when he stopped to rest. The sharp wind, sweeping down from the slopes, picked up and loosened snow and flung it in his eyes and under the cuffs and collar of his jacket. He lost track of time.
There was only one thing in the universe, and that was the need for speed. Slowly, slowly, he lessened the distance between him and 'the horses. He reached the part of the snow that should be the deepest.
This was where the test would come. If the snow were too deep, his cause was lost. He lurched ahead and was jerked abruptly onto his back.
Scrambling frantically to his feet he looked about—he had just come to the end of his rope. | Without hesitation, he took off his gloves and held them under his (Continued on page 210) Be a Guest at Your Own Party Phyllis Snow Home Service Director, Salt Lake City Area, Mountain Fuel Supply Company | OU don't think it can be done?
Then you need to try a buffet dinner.
Gone are the days when cooks spent hours over the stove and the table groaned under its load of food.
Living today is morecasual and informal, and entertaining is simpler. The buffet meal, which enlists the aid of the guests themselves, is a delightful innovation which fits in beautifully and is becoming increasingly a Anyone can entertain with a buffet meal—the older couple now moved from the big family home to a small apartment just big enough for two; the woman who works and can't be home to prepare a big dinner; the woman with small children and a big house to keep up; the man or girl living i in one room, and who must serve from a small table; and even the newly marrieds on a "two can live as cheaply as one" budget.. The menu may be merely a cheese tray with crackers and fruit, or as much as a two course dinner.
Seldom is it more complicated, In any case it should be possible to do the preparation in advance.
With last minute dashing practically eliminated, you can be a guest at your own party. Plates, napkins, silver, and food are arranged attractively and conveniently on the buffet table, and guests serve themselves. 'Though they may balance their filled plates on their laps during the meal, it is, of course, more convenient if trays or small tables are provided.
There are many kinds of buffet meals, and therefore no one set of directions is possible. The size of your apartment or house, the facilities of your kitchen or kitchenette, whether you have a garden, terrace, porch, or barbecue pit, your own personality, and that of your proposed guests, your financial situation, the time of day, and many other things will influence your plans. Do, however: 1.
Invite only the number of guests you can' handle conveniently. 2.
Select a menu that can be prepared before serving time, and which will not become unappetizing if allowed to stand. 3.
Avoid too much food. Quality, not quantile is the important eine: and. The food need not be expensive to be delicious. A casserole may be just as tempting and good as a ham or turkey, if it is properly prepared and attractively served. 4. Try out any new dishes on the family the week before the party. 5.
Serve hot foods hot and cold foods cold. 6.
Arrange the table and its Si aga, SO ge traffic to the buffet does not interfere with that leaving it. | 7.
Plan your party carefully and organize the preparation so as to conserve your energies and sunny disposition and enable you to enjoy your guests, not just be thankful when it is time for 'them to. Go. - 8.
Plan so that the conclusion of your buffet will go as smoothly as the beginning. Page
186 BE A GUEST AT YOUR OWN PARTY 187 g. If necessary enlist the aid of one or two close friends to help with the serving. 10. Be nonchalant whatever happens—never make a party seem a task.
Avoid any sign of fidgeting or hurrying on your part. Remember, delicious food, attractively a rranged conveys the wish of the poised, relaxed hostess. ''Accept this hospitality that comes from my heart and share with me the best I have to offer."
Here is a sample of how we organized one buffet dinner. By following a similar plan you can easily fit buffet entertaining into your own schedule. It is not always necessary to write out plans in this much detail, but it is necessary to think them through completely. MENU Spizzerinktum (Served by host or a friend as guests arrive) Salmon Delmonico in a Rice Ring Peas Orange-Grapefruit Salad Poppy Seed Dressing Relish Trays Bran Rolls Almond Torte Hot Spiced Grape Juice Hal Rumel TABLE SET FOR BUFFET DINNER 8 000° RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951
Put the empty serving dishes and serving silver where they will go when the food is served. This is a grand way to see the picture your table will make for the guests. When the picture satisfies you, stack the serving dishes ready for use in the kitchen.. Remember to arrange dishes in a consistent fashion so that the food is put on the plate in the order of its importance. Beverages should come last. Napkins and silver are secured after the food has all been served. _ Don't forget salt and pepper shakers somewhere on the buffet, for some tastes call for extra seasoning. Guests may not want to ask for them if they are not in sight. A pitcher of water and glasses should also be handy. Be as conventional or different as _ you please in decorating your buffet. Hothouse flowers in a lovely bowl may be centered on the table. Or push the table against the wall and arrange greens, autumn leaves, pine cones, and harvest vegetables, or fruit in a wide basket at one end away from the service of food. Keynote the setting with the occasion: a country supper is amusing if a row of geraniums, in freshly painted white pots borders the table where it has been pushed against a brick or summerhouse wall. | Candlelight, for a town apartment or. A winter night in the country, brings out the best in everybody. But do have enough candles. Arrange a tray of dessert china and silver and leave in the kitchen. Arrange trays for passing Spizzerinktum. Following are the recipes we used. As you see, thorough advance planning and preparation eliminate guesswork and ' worry and make a buffet dinner one of the most pleasant ways of entertaining for hostess and guest alike. RECIPES — SPIZZERINKTUM 1. Beat until thick and lemon colored -.-+--+- 2 eggs A c. Sugar. % tsp. Salt 2.. Blend im 022 eeeeee eee eon..__ ae Juice of three oranges: 2 c. Cranberry juice Juice of one lemon 3. Pour over cracked ice in glasses Yield: 6 glasses SatmMon Detmontco In A Rice RING 1. Melt in a saucepan - 20.2.20-2 teeters 4 C. Butter 2. Blemd ind -20u eee eeeeeececeeeeeeeeeteceeeeteceeeeseee % c. Flour | "A tsp. Salt ' tsp. Pepper 3. Add gradually while stirring constantly - 2c. Milk 4. Stir and cook until smooth and thickened (about 4 minutes), | | 5- Pour hot mixture on SA ncno-one 1 egg yolk, slightly beaten. 6. Cook over low heat about 1 minute, | 7» Add and mix well 2.2.2. Ecccseeseeessseecseeneneeseeneeees 1 1-Ib. Can red salmon, drained and flaked 1 4-02. Can sliced mushrooms, - drained BE A GUEST AT YOUR OWN PARTY | ee 7 189
Rice RING Temperature: 400°; Time: 45 min. If chilled prior to baking, 30 min. If hot when ready to bake.: 1. Wash thoroughly in several waters --..---- 2 ¢. Rice 2. Drain 3- Slowly drop rice into «2.2 tee teeeeseee ee eeeeeeeee eee 5 cc. Boiling water Make sure that the boiling fies not stop. 1 'tsp. Salt 4. Cover and simmer 25 minutes. Do not stir. _ 5- When rice is soft but firm, drain in a colamalsr, but do not rinse. 6. Add and mix well -.2.2 2.2..:.22eeeeceee eee eee eeeeee 26 c. Minced parsley 6 tbsp. Melted butter 7. Press into a well-greased 8-inch nng mold. 8. Set mold into a pan of hot water. G. Bake o. Remove from oven, invert on a serving plate, and fill center with Salmon Delmonico. 11. Surround mold with anaesbuttered peas Yield: 6-8 servings RELIsH TRAY Carrot curls: Wash and scrape tender young carrots, cut into paper thin slices. Lengthwise with a vegetable peeler, roll tightly and fasten with toothpicks. Crisp in ice water. Remove toothpicks before serving. Stuffed celery: Stuff small sticks of celery with softened pauls cheese. Garnish with aioe nuts or paprika. Olives and pickles: Choose very large (colossal is a good size) stuffed green and ripe olives. Small gherkins go well with this. ORANGE-GRAPEFRUIT SALAD 1. Using a sharp knife, peel as though paring an 0) || 2
Texas pink grapefruit 3 medium oranges (Remove narrow strips of peel and use a sawing motion with the knife, not a pushing motion. Be sure all white membrane is removed as you go.) N. Remove pulp by sections, cutting away from tough portion, first on one side of section, then on other. 3. Chill thoroughly. 4. ATTAMge lM 0 eee cece eee eect ee eee ee leceeeeneeneelettuce cups §. Garnish with 2.2.22e-eeee eee eee ee eee eee eeeeeceeceeneee pomegranate seeds CR | | arepoppy seed dressing Yield: 6 servings Poppy SEED DRESSING 1. Mix together - 0 2 --.-cececteeecicceeeeeeeeeeaes 1 ¢, sugar %, tbsp. Flour " "4 tsp. Mustard 1 tbsp. Paprika 2. Add, and cook 2 minutes 2.200.002. 2 ©. Vinegar 3: Cool 7 || 2% tsp. Onion juice ® 
190 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 5. Beat in slowly 2 -.-..---c-ecceeee->. =a salad oil CT 6 V< (¢ (aa 1 tsp. Poppy seed Note: Celery seed may be substituted for the poppy seed. This is particularly good on fruit salads, especially grapefruit and avocado or grapefruit and orange. Bran ROLLS Temperature 400°; Time: 12 to 15 minutes 1. Mix in large mixing bowl ----o-+- a 1 c. Bran "% c. Mashed potatoes "2 ¢. Lard or butter % c. Sugar i | anne 2c. Scalded milk 3. Cool until tepid TS) 6 | 1 cake compressed yeast in | "2 ¢. Lukewarm water 5. Add to milk mixture. 6. AGM..-.--n-n-----JEgB Eee some ----soUlitens. O=----0 <A ae 2 beaten eggs 7. Sift together and add -.-.-------.----eeeeeeeeeeeeees 2 c. Sifted flour 2 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Baking powder "2 tsp. Soda 8. Beat thoroughly g. Gradually add enough more flour to make a doueay (about 4-6 ¢c.).., 10. Knead 2 minutes. 11. Grease top of dough. Cover tightly and place in aineeetor over aight. (May: be _ stored in refrigerator 4 to 5 days before using. ) 12. Shape and place in pans about two hours before baking, Yield: 4 dozen rolls. ALMOND TORTE 1. Cream until soft and pliable - 2.220222---..00---- "2 ¢. Soft butter TIN 0) 6 i | 0 ree "2 C. Sugar 3. Beat in one at a time © eee 4 egg yolks 4. Sift together 3 times — 1..0..2.2..2ee eet lc. Sifted cake flour "4 tsp. Salt 1% tsp. Baking powder 5. Add dry ingredients alternately by thirds with 5 _ tbsp. Milk (Use a stroke count of 50, 50, 125.) 6. Spread the thick batter evenly in 2 well-greased, 8-inch layer tins. 7. Beat until stiff 2.222. 4 egg whites 8. Beat in, 2 tbsp. At a time - se lc. Sugar Pe Ilene ENNIO 1 tsp. Vanilla, dash salt 10. Spread over batter, sealing to pan sides. | | 11. Sprinkle with - -.-.-:.-: cscccececeeeeeeceeeeeeereeeeeeeeneeeees 36 c. Blanched almonds, shredded, 12. Bake. Temperature 325°; Time: 30
Minutes 13. Cool. 14. WHIP - 22..----c-ceecteseeeececeeeeeens ———__ a lc.
Heavy cream ve 0) Ce 6 ee 2 tbsp. Sugar " tsp. Vanilla 16. Put torte together with cake surfaces in the middle and the sweetened, whipped cream between. (The meringue will be on the bottom of the torte and also on the top.) | BE A GUEST AT YOUR OWN PARTY 17.
Chill thoroughly. Yield: I cake Hor Spicep
GRAPE JUICE MMS 211 OY ——ccces 22. -220200--aenernceneen-->-- 2. Add tO..-ccccceccoeeecececeeceeeeeeeceeeeeneeeeeeeeteeeee a. Simmer 5 minutes 4. Add and reheat to boiling - -.. 5.
Serve hot. Q @ 191 a'..1 tbsp.
Whole cloves 2 ~~ sticks cinnamon wanecannna@ifiiies= 2 c.
Water ececseeeseeennees 1 qt.
Grape juice % C.
Orange juice ' ¢.
Lemon juice q q Shree Hobbies Maria C.
Hardy of Colonia Dublan, Mexico, Is Skilled in Netting, Cake Making, and Modeling Figurines Maria C. Hardy, seventy years old, a Relief Society visiting teacher, a practical nurse, and a homemaker, has still found time and energy for the development and perfecting of three unusual hobbies: netting, cake making, and modeling figurines. The exquisite tablecloth, shown in the picture, is sixty-four inches wide and seventy-two inches long, and was made in two years. Sister Hardy also crochets and embroiders, making many unusual and beautifully designed articles. In cake making Sister Hardy specializes in wedding cakes, which she decorates with a mixture of powdered sugar, egg whites, and cream of tartar, or lemon juice. Her favorite motifs for decoration are the bride and groom, roses, hearts, lattice work, and forget-me-nots. The bride and groom for the wedding cake are made from granulated sugar poured into molds which were purchased in Mexico City. The center figure in the lower right-hand corner is a representation of a young woman in a fancy dress, and the right-hand figurine is a bust made for a birthday cake. In her work as obstetrical nurse, Maria Hardy has delivered 705 babies, and is well-known and well-loved in her comMARIA C. HARDY munity for the service she renders to all who are ill or in trouble. —Gladys K. Wagner For the The extracted text appears to be from the wrong article. The "Flower Arrangements for Springtime" article by Dorothy J. Roberts should contain the full text visible on page 177, which begins with "LIKE music, flowers speak a universal language..." and discusses containers, flower holders, and floral clay techniques. The extracted text ending with "—Gladys K. Wagner For the" appears to be from an unrelated article about Maria C. Hardy.