[Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue]

Announcing the Special April Short Story Jssue HE April 1951 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with four authors being represented, each with an interesting story. Enjoy these stories in April: | "Herman and the Birthday Dinner," by Hazel K. Todd "A Gil's Point of View," by Deone R. Sutherland "Who Laughs Last," by Olive W. Burt "Now Is the Time," by Carol Read Flake o-~<P~< Beyond Shis loment Pansye H. Powell However rich the chords of music are That lift our dreams beyond the farthest star; That match our moods, that lead us on strange trails, And take us where our vagrant fancy sails; However wise the compass of their arc To tell of life and death, of dawn and dark— That power is the best which helps men see Beyond this moment to eternity! Vlo TO THE FIELD Organizations and 'Reorganizations of Tlisston and Stake Relief Societies Since the last report, printed in the March 1950 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, Missions West Central States Stakes East Long Beach East Los Angeles Nyssa Richland University Missions Australian British California Central States Central Pacific East Central States French Hawaiian Mexican Northern States Northwestern States Tongan West German Page 174 to and including December 1950. NEW ORGANIZATIONS Formerly Part of Appointed President Northwestern States, Reta F. Broadbent North Central, and Western States Missions Long Beach Mildred D. Harper Pasadena Ruby G. Choate Weiser Emma Chytraus Union Stake and Northwestern States Lucile J. Erickson 'Mission, Yakima Dist. Emigration Fanny S. Kienitz REORGANIZATIONS Released President: Blanche K. Richmond Gladys S. Boyer Vivian R. McConkie Mary Martha W. Brown Georgia H. Weenig H. Stoddard Jane F _ T. Richards Date of Appointment October 4, 1950
February 27, 1950
February 26, 1950
January 15, 1950
July 18, 1950
March 23, 1950
Appointed President Date of Appoint. Ment Myrtle J. Christensen April 14, 1950
January 11, 1950
August 26, 1950
Annie M. Ellsworth March 20, 1950 '(Combined with Hawaiian Mission FebTuary 3, 1950) Edna H. Matheson Beth C. Woolf Irene P. Clissold Kate B. Mecham Lucy T. Andersen Hilda M. Richards Kate M. Baker Mary H. Smith Mary D. Pierce Elna P. Haymond Georgina F. Richards Evelyn H. Dunn Martha Elnora G. Huntsman Jane B. Wunderlich Mavil A. McMurrin Luella W. Cannon ~ April 29, 1950
March 31, 1950
February 3, 1950
April 12, 1950
January 30, 1950
December 12, 1950
July 6, 1950
October 6, 1950 NOTES TO THE FIELD | 175
Stakes Released President | Appointed President Date of Appoint-, an ment Bannock Eliza B. Chnstensen Edith Hubbard September 10, 1950
Bear Lake Clarissa B. Ward Della R. Hulme June 4, 1950
Big Cottonwood Helen W. Anderson Grace E. Berndt October 7, 1950
Bonneville Florence Cowan Elna P. Haymond _—_ September 10, 1950
Davis Abby W. Webb Edna R. France September 10, 1950
Deseret Maria T, Moody Mary L. Henrie November 26, 1950
Humboldt Jenet S. Clyde Rose Burner January 13, 1950
Juarez Nellie S. Hatch Gladys K. Wagner September 3, 1950
Kolob Zelma P. Beardall Gladys S. Boyer August 20, 1950
Long Beach Frances S. Wilcox _Nina L. Riley March 12, 1950
Los Angeles Dorothy H. Koer Alice A. Call October 15; 1950
Montpelier Louisa Stephens Virginia R. Vaterlaus December 3, 1950
Mount Graham Erma M. Stewart Thelma G. Maloy September 10, 1950
Mount Ogden Adaliene B. Bailey _—_— Belva J. Petersen September 3, 1950
Nevada Koa Taylor Marietta T. Call. | November 26, 1950
Park Ruby S. Karpowitz Naomi W. Seaich May 28, 1950
Pocatello Helga H. Pugmire Helen B. Walker October 8, 1950
Reno Isabel Cooke Lena Oxborrow November 14, 1950
Salt Lake Maude F. Hanks Marjorie M. Ward June 11, 1950
Seattle Vera M. Leishman Birdie S. Bean March 21, 1950
Sharon Ruby S. Hunn Jane B. Larsen June 20, 1950
South Box Elder May L. Jensen Ezma L. Knudson February 12, 1950
South Davis Reva F. Wicker Leila G. Eldredge September 8, 1950
South Salt Lake LauRene K. Lind- —Della D. Walton September 22, 1950 uist South Sevier F loral M. Rasmussen Montez O. ChristianJuly 1, 1950 sen South Sanpete Bell O. Hansen Leona F. Wintch = August 27, 1950
Weber Ada Lindquist Pearl Van Dyke August 2, 1950
Young Harriet D. Foutz Ida L. Allen May 7, 1950 (died April 7, 1950) @ @ G@ #8
Spring House Cleaning Caroline Eyring Miner 7s wind is doing a good job of house cleaning these March days. She is whipping the old dead branches from the trees, blowing the molded leaves into little piles wherever there is some object to catch and hold them. She is drying up the little puddles of muddy water, dusting off the ivy and evergreens after the long winter. We need a spring house cleaning, too. We need to pull out the dead wood of prejudice and self-complacency. We need to gather the scattered leaves of frivolity, selfishness, vanity, insincerity, and self-pity, and burn them. We need to dry up the little puddles of gossip, faultfinding, backbiting. We need to keep verdant the desire in our hearts to grow, and keep growing, as the evergreens do. We need to brighten _ the kind helpfulness that is our better nature. Spring house cleaning is a tedious and painful process sometimes, but it is nevertheless very necessary. Warren Lee FLOWERING CHERRY, UTAH STATE CAPITOL GROUNDS Page 176
Flower Arrangements for Springtime Dorothy J]. Roberts IKE music, flowers speak a universal language. They tell of refinement, gentleness, and love of beauty; of festivity, of trib-. Ute in joy or sorrow. A life is given — or one is taken away, and the eloquence of flowers received, is understood, interpreted in the language of the heart. From their throats come the message of solace, the voice of peace, or the song of spring. Enhanced by harmonious containers and settings, flowers can bring distinction to the plainest surroundings. Let each woman try her hand at more original and gratifying arrangements. Of the growing things at her command. She will develop her personality and delight her family and friends. CONTAINERS Plain containers are best for general use. Ornate vases are hard to harmonize with various flowers and _ backgrounds. Pale, pastel colors, dull greens, blues, and ivories, whites, and browns are good. Use a shallow, oblong bowl for low arrangements, and an urn and a taller bowl or Square type container for taller designs. Wide-mouthed containers are more convenient than narrow-necked ones. But don't be content with only these conventional containers. Have a daring eye, open for anything to fill your need, as plates, platters, vegetable dishes, tureens, bowls, compotes, goblets, chocolate pots, odd bottles, sprinkling cans, or brass, copper, silver, pewter, and wood articles, weathered pieces of wood or tree stumps. Some containers may be painted with oil or water-mixed paints. Willard Luce FLOWER HOLDERS The best for all purposes are the heavy lead-base, needle-point holders in various sizes. Impale the flower stems firmly on the sharp needle points. Use for all shallow containers. Hide them well with petals, blossoms, foliage, pebbles, or rocks. FLORAL CLAY Clay must be kept dry until the arrangement is completed. Put a piece on the bottom of the needle holder, then press firmly to the bottom of the container. This will hold heavy arrangements from falling. Use also on top of the needles to keep small stems in place. Page 177 
178 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1951 W. Atlee Burpee ARRANGEMENT OF ALLDOUBLE PETUNIAS (AMERICA) WIRE IN VASES A strip of chicken wire about two inches wide, crumpled up into tall vases or the necks of narrow-necked jars will hold flowers in place.
ROCKS AND PEBBLES
Dark, weathered and pitted rocks are useful and ornamental in weighting down a flower holder. Pebbles serve a like purpose. FLORIST WIRE Use to twine around stems and flowers or through stems to shape them. You will need a heavy and a light gauge. ELASTIC BANDS, RAFFIA, -AND STRING Tie small flowers, as pansies and violets, into bunches before arranging. DISCS Circles of plywood, painted to harmonize, and used as a background, will dramatize and add interest to some arrangements, if you do not have copper, brass, silver, or other colored plates on hand. - FIGURINES Colorful or graceful figurines used in the proper place will enhance many arrangements. They should be used only after thought and planning, and placed inside or outside the container. Ducks would be appropriate in or beside low dishes where the water shows. Birds go with boughs or many flower types. Human figures should be used in scale, so neither the figure nor the arrangement dwarfs the other. Line or color in the figurine may be repeated in the arangement. | FLOWER ARRANGEMENTS FOR SPRINGTIME FOLIAGE Develop an open mind toward foliage to use with flowers or alone. Unrelated leaves often lend new grace to a flower. Borrow from weeds, shrubs, ferns, grasses, or potted plants. Combine ivy, trailing to the tablecloth, with stiff flowers. Try all-green arrangements, or one of variegated greens, vegetables not excluded. Remember, Salina said in So Big, "Cabbages are beautiful!" Many leaves can be brightened to a rich sheen with cotton dipped in oil. The delicate young green of boughs "forced" into early bloom is delightful. FLOWERS What a panorama of color and form bursts upon the mind at the word. For the first breath of spring, go outdoors in February or March and prune off a few boughs from any flowering shrub or tree 179 and "force" them into bloom a month early by bringing them into the house and putting them in deep water. They will burst into delicate bloom in a week or two, more or less, and will last as long or longer than those matured in the garden. Their stems, along with all woody stems, should be pounded with a hammer, from the ends up about two to five inches; not enough to break, but just to bruise them. This allows for more absorption of water. Try this on pussy willows, Forsythia, flowering quince, and almond, bridal wreath, apple, currant, pear, jasmine, alder, and honeysuckle. The twigs of plants which bear only leaves are beautiful, too, the horse chestnut, beech, birch, oak, mountain ash, maple, and barberry.