[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: NURSES CLASS. | Author: Unknown]

NURSES CLASS.
	Closing exercises of the Relief Society
Nurses' Class, graduating Ma[-] 28, 1901,
taught by Dr. M. C. Roberts.
	Opening exercises, singing and prayer,
singing furnished by the Temple choir
quartette under the leadership of Prof. C.
J. Thomas. Prayer by Sister B. W.
Smith.
	President M. I. Horne made opening re-
marks giving Sister Roberts great credit
for the labor she had performed free of
charge and complimenting the graduating
class on their work and their pleasing ap-
pearance. "You will be rewarded for the
good you do. The Latter-day Saints are
not laboring for money alone. I feel to
bless you all as a mother in Israel, and ask
God to bless you in the name of Jesus."
	Another musical selection was given by
the quartette, "Who are these arrayed
in white." This was followed by the pre-
sentation of certificates of graduation to the
twenty-eight graduating nurses, who pre-
sented a very pleasing appearance in their
nurses' costume of blue and white, with
white aprons, caps and collars.
	This was followed by a very pleasing
address to the class by the doctor.
	Counselor Annie Taylor Hyde followed
in a happy address, and presented to Dr.
Roberts, in behalf of the Stake Board, a

[Column 2]
et of silver spoons, as a token of apprecia-
iation, though they felt that they could
not repay her for the noble work she had
done. She then presented a book, "Gems
of Art," to Prof. Jos. Nelson, who had
so kindly provided a room in the College
building for them to meet in.
	Miss Willey, in behalf of the class, pre-
sented Dr. Roberts with a dozen silver
oyster forks and a berry spoon with her
monogram.
	The recepients expressed their appecia-
ation in brief but feeling remarks."
	"Floating" was sung by the quartette.
	Superintendent Emma A. Empey, made
a few remarks, giving the former class
high praise for their work and hoping
that this graduating class might do as well,
and felt sure they would.
	Counselor Hyde then presented to the
superintendents, Mrs. Priscilla J. Riter
and Mrs. Emma A. Empey, written testi-
monials from the Stake presidency of the
Relief Society; she also announced that the
members of the class could come to the
Temple and be set apart for the work.
	Mrs. Riter spoke in thanks and en-
couragement to the nurses, and her re-
marks were much appreciated.
	Mrs. Empey expressed her thanks, say-
ing that she would appreciate the testimon-
ial more than a necklace of diamonds.
	Dr. Roberts asked that these testimonials
be read that all might have the pleasure of
hearing them. They were read by Sister
Augusta W. Grant.
	Mrs. Empey then asked the nurses to
report to her when ready for service, as she
had constant calls for nurses.
	It is understood that a new superinten-
dent will have to be obtained, as neither
Mrs. Empey nor Mrs. Riter will be able to
serve permanently, but will continue to act
for the present.
	Musical selection, "When the mists have
rolled away."
	Bishop Empey having come in he was
asked to make a few remarks and responded.
	President Horne called for a vote of
thanks to be given to the singers. Bene-
diction by Sister M. Y. Dougall.


[Column 1]
