[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: Editorial Notes | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES.
	Sisters Susan Grant and L. L. Greene
Richards visited the Relief Society in
Alberta Stake, Canada, and attended many
meetings and the conferences held while
they were there, and we trust their visit
has been productive of much good to those
among whom they labored in the interests
of women’s organizations.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith and Sis-
ter Annie T. Hyde attended the Davis
Stake conference at Farmington on Thurs-
day, July 25, and met there President Hess
who has been ailing so long, and also
Brother Ezra T. Clark, who has been suf-
fering seriously for several months.  They
were delighted to see these sisters.  Sister
Grant, too, had just returned from her trip
to Canada.  The conference was a very en-
joyable one.
	We desire to call the attention of our
readers to the Address of President Lorenzo
Snow in this issue of the paper, and ask
that it may be read at a meeting in each
branch of the Relief Society.  We are anx-
ious that the members of the society and
the public generally should know how in-
terested our honored President is in the
work of this grand organization and in the
effort being made by the Society to erect a
building for its needs and purposes.

	In a letter recently received from Canada
we learn of the good health and enjoyment
of our beloved President, Sister Zina D. H.
Young, who is visiting there with her
daughter and family, and we are sure all
the Saints everywhere wish her health may


continue to improve, and that she may have
renewed strength and vigor and be able to
accomplish all her heart desires in the
great mission to which she has been called
and set apart by the servants of God, to
preside over the Relief Society of the
Church in all the world.
	During the present year there has been
much missionary visiting done by our sis-
ters in the several Stakes of Zion.  Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards, accompanied by
Sister Emily S Richards, very recently
attended the conference in Alpine Stake,
where a change was made in the presiden-
cy, on account of the resignation, because
of ill health, of Sister Jemima Durrant,
who had been chosen to preside over the
Relief Society of that Stake of Zion.  Sister
Rebecca Standring was chosen to fill the
vacancy by unanimous vote of the confer-
ence!


[Column 1]
