[Vol10 | April 1923 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]

editorial career began. The publication of his first volume of verse (1821) and the prose and poetic satires previous had made him sought by papers and magazines. He began as a full-fledged journalist in 1825. He moved to New York, and became assistant editor on a short lived magazine. Bryant then became one of the editors of the New York 'Evening Post, and, in 1828, its chief editor. His own contribution of verse and prose, and the high standard of all its columns was largely responsible for keeping all American journalism stronger and cleaner than the vulgar trend of the times would otherwise have made it. Bryant's eloquent prose was sought on all kinds of public occasions: at celebrations, dedications, political or social meetings his poetic, imaginative genius distinguished and popularized his speeches. No man of distinction in America had been so well known. His ponderous head, long gray hair and beard, alert, sharp eyes, and springing gait—buoyant almost to the last— gained instant recognition and reverence. -Fifty years he had served his country in building her greatest newspaper and her habits of thought; seventy years a poet, though he wrote less per year than any other great poet, he voiced more of his country's ideals and beauties. His career covered, if not all, at least the best years of nearly all our great American writers and many of those of England: Scott, Byron, Tennyson, Shelley, Arnold, Wadsworth, Browning, Irving, Poe, Whittier, Longfellow, Lowell, Emerson, Holmes, Whitman, Bret Harte, and others. A great figure in a great society of literary lights! America's first great poet—the Wadsworth of America, and—not even Lowell excepted '—the poet most in public life. SUGGESTIONS FOR STUDY 1. Do you consider Bryant's fairyland flights successful in such poems as The Litile People of the Snow? 2. Bryant's one abiding idea, about nature is that she is a profound influence on the human spirit; quote lines that show its chastening or soothing or encouraging or ennobling effect. 3. Wherein is Robert of Lincoln rather fetching in its playfulness, and also an exception to the author's general failure in dramatic portrayal? 4. What was Bryant's influence in American journalism? 5. What were his views and feelings on death? On ethics? 
 LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in June) MARRIAGE AND ITS ADJUSTMENTS The early period of marriage is one of adjustment and readjustment in habits, ideals and standards of life. To a degree at least, it is a sort of making over the old ways of living in compliance with the demands of this new and intimate relationship. It is a reconstruction which makes it possible for two persons who are different by nature and by nurture to live together harmoniously, sympathetically, and successfully. This is no simple matter. Professor Tuft says, "In view of all these differences in nature, occupation and social standards, it may be said that however well husband and wife may love each other, few understand each other completely. Perhaps most men do not understand women at all."" Dewey and Tuft: Ethics, p. 588. PHYSICAL DIFFERENCES Men and women are different both physically and mentally. Men's bodies are larger and stronger than are those of women. They can lift and handle heavier objects. They are endowed by nature with strength to fight in defense of home and for the protection of children and the weaker sex. Women, on the other hand, although they do not possess muscular strength, have, in certain respects, greater endurance. For example, in administering continuous aid to children and dependent persons women are able to continue many thours without rest while men are apt to yield to sleep and fatigue. Women can also endure extreme pain for long periods of time which is, of course, incident to child bearing. God has, thus, endowed man and woman each with bodily powers essential to the carrying out of the divine purpose of their creation. MENTAL DIFFERENCES The mental differences between men and women are less obvious. The old notion that men have greater mental powers than women is no longer accepted by psychologists. In recent years many women have undertaken scholastic pursuits and have made attainments in lines which call for great mental ability. But notwithstanding this mental equality which the science of human nature now recognizes, there are fundamental differences in the way men and women react to the various problems and 'GUIDE LESSONS 209 conditions of life. This may be due only in part to their inherited nature and largely to the difference in training and customs to which each has been subjected. In dealing with the great human relations men are less emotional and impulsive than women. Men frequently remain quiet and thoughtful when women weep and in words and actions make outward demonstration of their inner disturbances. These differences show themselves in the presence of great crises occasioning extreme joy or sorrow. These physical and mental differences make for attractions, and are thus a condition of pleasant association between men and'women. They were created by God and nothing should be done in our modern social life to weaken them. G. S. Hall writes: 'What our schools and other institutions should do is not to obliterate these differences but to make boys more manly and girls more womanly. We should respect the law of sexual differences and not forget that motherhood is a very different thing from fatherhood. Neither sex should copy or set patterns to the other, but all parts should be played: harmoniously and clearly in the great sex symphony." G. S. Hall: Youth, p. 284. But although these differences are the very condition of attraction between man and woman, they are also causes of misunderstanding and occasional friction. We need, therefore, an adjustment which insures harmony and cooperation and at the same time gives place to thought differences which make for sex attraction and which are essential as supplements to the life of man and woman. Man is incomplete without woman and so also is woman without man. We admire initiative and strength in man, but we know how quickly it may bceome rough and hard unless it is in some way supplemented by the sentiments and emotions of woman. <A woman on the other hand may become extremely sentimental and narrow unless checked by the colder and more rational attitude of man. This situation is well expressed in the Sanskrit story where Man confesses to the Creator of Woman: "I cannot: live either with her or without her." QUESTIONS 'I. Show that the early period of married life is essentially a period of adjustment. 2. Show that from the point of recons'ructing habits, ideals, and standards, marriage should not be too long postponed. 3. What does Professor Tufts say concerning men and women understanding one another? Can you justify his position?. 
 4. In what respect does man's physical strength differ from that of woman? 5. |Give examples to show that women uke certain conditions have greater endurance than men. 6. Give reasons to show the fallacy of the old notion that. Men have stronger minds than women. 7. How would you answer the following argument? There are more men who become great architects, writers, preachers, lawyers, politicians and financiers than there are women, therefore, men must be brighter than wome2. 8. What are the mental differences between men and women? Do these differences tend to show that their mission in this world is essentially different? 9. In view of these differences what does G. S. Hall say about the sort of education that should be given to boys and girls respectively? 10. Show the full significance of the statement that. Man is incomplete without woman and woman is incomplete without man. TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JUNE CURFEW LAW 1. Twelfth "Article of Faith." 2. All nature is governed by law and obeys the law by which it is governed. Man alone disregards law, and the results of this disobedience bring disaster. 3. Disregard for minor laws prevalent. 4. Curfew law. A. This law makes is unlawful for persons eighteen or under to be on the highways. Or at public places of amusement after nine, unless accompanied by parent or guardian. B. The purpose of the law is to safeguard the morals | of the juveniles. Juveniles yield more readily to evil influences than do adults. Youths who go astray very commonly begin their waywardness before the age of eighteen. C. Evil influences of a social nature are much more prevalent by night than by day. D. Law enforcement officers hold that most of their trouble with juveniles would be at an end, and ultimately crime generally would be greatly reduced if law was more strictly observed. E. Responsibility of enforcement of this law rests mainly with the parents. F. Results of disobedience to this law. Some Firsts in Woman's Progress The first representative body of women ever convened was the "National Female Anti-Slavery" Convention held in New York City with seventy-two delegates present, in 1837. The first resolution endorsing the public work of women came from the American Anti-Slavery Society, composed of both men and women, in 1839. The first women in the world to receive college degrees were Mary Hosford, Elizabeth S. Prall, and Caroline M. Rudd, graduates of Oberlin College in 1841. The first nation in the world to grant married women control of their own property was the United States through the State of Maine, which led the way, in 1844. The first Woman's Rights Convention was that called in 1848 at Seneca Falls, New York. The first woman graduate physician was Elizabeth Blackwell in 1848. The first woman graduate of a Theological School was Antoninette Brown, (later Mrs. Blackwell), in 1850, at Oberlin College. The first woman to protest against taxes was Dr. Harriet K. Hunt in 1852. The first merchant to employ young women to clerk in his store was B. F. Hamilton whose store was for that reason boycotted by conservative customers. The first couple to protest against the inequalities of the law which gave the control of the wife's personal property to her children, were Henry B. Blackwell and his wife, Mrs. Lucy Stone Blackwell, at the time of their marriage in Boston. The first woman's hospital to be opened was in New York, in March, 1857.. The first organizer of the American Red Cross was Clara Barton, in 1860, 
 The first state to give school suffrage to women was Kansas at its admission in 1861. The first appearance of woman in federal employment was in 1862, when General Spinner appointed seven clerks in the National Treasury, stirring up a storm of protest. The first full suffrage state was Wyoming, which, at the first session of its legislature in 1869, granted votes for women. The first woman's prison in the world, officered and managed by women, was established in 1869. The first woman lawyer in-modern times was Mrs. Belle A. Mansfield, admitted to the Iowa Bar in 1869. The first woman delegate to the American Medical Association was Dr. Sarah H. Stephensen of Chicago, in 1876. The first woman admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of the United States was Mrs. Belva Lockwood, in 1879. The first International Council of Women met in Washington, D. C., in 1888. The first woman army surgeon was Dr. Anita Newcomb McGee, in 1898. The first big city school superintendent was Mrs. Ella Flagg Young in Chicago, in 1909, and Mrs. Young in 1910 became the first woman President of the National Education Association.— Journal of Education. ~ {-— — SPECIAL OFFER 25c Complete Material For The Making of A Ladys Linen Handkerchief Including one square of fine colored linen, thread, design, hot-iron transfer, directions, needle and patch. Choice of color and design (either flowers or patches). Write at once and get your order in'as no department store could make such a remarkable offer HELENE NOVELTY SHOP P. O.