[Vol10 | April 1923 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for June]
LESSON III Literature (Third Week in June) WILLIAM CuLten' Bryant (1794-1878) 5 The first American writer of artistic prose was Washington Irving, but the first great American poet was William Cullen Bryant. The latter, though born ten years later (1794), began to write at the same time. Indeed, he was only a child of twelve -when his "Embargo" was published. And his immortal "Thanatopsis" followed Irving's first great success the Knickerbocker History, within three years. Another parallel between these first two great American men of letters is the fact that both were destined for the law,—Bryant being admitted to the bar and practicing for a few years. But the inner urge of art - with both men was stronger than training. Bryant's father, Dr. Peter Bryant, a physician and state legislator, was too broad and too wise to try to restrict his son's natural bent. He had had him christened after a great medical authority, in hopes of a third generation of doctors, for the grandfather, too, was practitioner as well as magistrate. Great and great-great grandfather Bryant had been Plymouth magistrates, but William Cullen Bryant, descendant of John Alden, born in Cummingdon, Massachusetts, was to be no village magistrate, nor physician, nor lawyer, but in toth poetry and journalism he was to make his "One of the few immortal names That were not born to die." The young lawyer pays no compliment to his clients or his profession when he flees to the woods, and says to the stream (Green River): — "But I wish that fate had left me free To wander these quiet haunts with thee." * * * "Though forced to drudge for the dregs of men, And scrawl strange words with barbarous pen, And mingle among the jostling crowd, Where the sons of strife are subtle and loud." The ardent love of nature was the key to Bryant's greatness. His verse is always charming and vivid and true in detail. Note what a gallery of definite pictures in A Winter Scene, each bathed in the Bryant atmosphere of calm, expansive, solemn grandeur: "Still there was beauty in my walks; the brook Bordered with sparkling frost work, was as gay As with its fringe of summer flowers. Afar, The village with its spires, the path of streams And dim receding valleys, hid before By interposing trees, lay visible Through the bare grove." * ok x "And all was white. The pure keen air abroad, Albeit breathed no scent of herb, nor heard Love-call of bird nor merry hum of bee, Was not the air of death. Bright mosses crept Over the spotted trunks, and the close buds, That lay along the boughs, instinct with life, Patient, and waiting the soft breath of Spring, Feared not the piercing spirit of the North. The snow bird twittered on the beechen bough, And neath the hemlock, whose thick branches bent Beneath the bright, cold burden, and kept dry A circle on the earth, of withered leaves, The partridge found a shelter. Through the snow The rabbit sprang away. The lighter track Of fox, the racoon's broad path, were there, Crossing each other. From his hollow tree The squirrel was abroad, gathering the nuts Just fallen, that asked the winter cold and sway Of winter blast to shake them from their hold." You catch the thrill of the familiar summer scene from the accurate observation and musical swing in Green River: "And pure its waters—its shallows are bright With colored pebbles and sparkles of light, And clear the depths where its eddies play— And dimples deepen and whirl away, And the plane-tree's speckled arms o'er shoot The swifter current that mines its root." Bryant stands in worshipful awe of God's creation. Such reverence is his religion. His noblest lines are born of his broad, comprehensive appreciation of the great out-doors. Note the grand sweep and lofty thought and diction of the dozens of nature poems like A Forest Hymn.: "The groves were God's first temples, ere man learned To hew the shaft, and lay the architrave, And spread the roof above them—ere he framed The lofty vault, to gather and roll back The sound of anthems; in the darkling wood, Amid the cool and silence, he knelt down, And offered to the Mightiest solemn thanks And supplication." Bryant's life and character and literary style and habit of thinking is one with his poetry. His pure and lofty thought naturally seeks the loftiest material and expression.. His open, clear, noble, austere life finds embodiment and expression in nature's grandest forms. Perhaps it was the darker Puritanic severities, the inevitable retribution of whipping post, birchen rod. And pulpit warnings that colored much of this author's work a solemn gray. Yet his sombre moods are not depressing, never sordid. Even in death there is hope, beauty, justice and grandeur. The usual bright and beloved scene often becomes a playground for serious thoughts, even of death. When only eighteen, while picking his way through primeval forests about Cummingdon, where gigantic trunks of fallen trees and layers of dead leaves had accumulated for ages, he composed his Thanatopsis. In one broad and comprehensive view the young author in this first great American poem presents the destinies of the human race on earth—like the trees of his forest—the perpetual coming and going of generation after generation, in order and beauty and heavenly mercy, each eventually finding a resting place on the bosom of the kind earth. 'Aspects of death occur frequently in his poetry throughout his whole life, but nearly always are they inspired by some phenomenon of nature. The Hymn to Death, The Burial Place, Blessed are they that Mourn, No Man Knoweth his Sepulchre, The Old Man's Funeral, and many others are all more majestic than they are solemn expressions of such consolation as closes his Mutation: "Weep not that the world; changes—did it keep A stable, chiangeless state, 'twere cause indeed to weep." Such lines as these, and those that follow from Hymw to Death, are largely respons'ble for the familiar term of "cold" applied to Bryant's work. Speaking to death: "Vet while the spell Is on my spirit, and I talk with thee In sight of all thy trophies, face to face, Meet is it that my voice should utter forth Thy nobler triumphs; I will teach the world To thank thee." * * * "Thou dost avenge,
