[Vol10 | April 1923 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Maude Adams]

Maude Adams The following clipping from the New York Sun of January 31> 1923, which intimates that Maude Adams is retiring from the Empire Theatre of New York City, and which gives her rating with such celebrated actors as Edwin Booth and Joseph Jefferson, and so celebrated an actress as Mary Anderson, must stir the pride of every citizen of Utah, for Maude Adams' mother was a Utah girl, born of "Mormon" parents, and Maude, herself, was born in Salt Lake City. Professor Brander Matthews, the noted dramatic critic, says that actors and actresses, as a rule come from families that have known the stage; that there are certain traditions that have been handed down that go far toward making or marring the career of an actor or actress. This is certainly true of Maude Adams, whose mother, Annie Asenith Adams, was one of the stars of that deservedly famed stock company of the 60's. "Maude was born November 11, 1872, within a stone's throw," says John S. Lindsay,. "of the Salt Lake Theatre; ana before she was a year old made her debut on the stage where her mother was a debutante some eight years before." "Tt will be readily seen," says Mr. Lindsay in his story of the Mormons and the Theatre, "that Maude Adams was virtually born to the stage, her mother studying assiduously and playing parts both before and after Maude's birth, often taking Maudie with her both to rehearsals and performances, so that she became a familiar little object in the theatre before she could walk or talk. And long before she could say a speaking part, she was the pet of the Green room." Despite the fact that Miss Adams' course has led her very for from her mother's people, for the major part of her life, it is nevertheless true that any scientific study of American celebrities, any serious effort to compile a biographical dictionary of American men and women of genius, must inevitably lead the investigator to the fact that Maude Adams was born of a "Mormon" mother, among the people who came into these valleys to establish an abiding place because of their desire to worship God according to the dictates of their own conscience.