[Vol28 | October 1941 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: Frontispiece]
so  she  did.  But  she  still  couldn't 
see.  She  wrote  the  word  on  a  piece 
of  paper  and  took  it  to  Mother  who 
was  setting  the  sponge  for  bread. 
Mother  said  that  it  meant  being 
good  through  and  through. 
Judith  went  back  to  her  Bible  and 
reread  the  verse.  Maybe  that  was 
what  Father  had  wanted  her  to  see 
—that  it  wasn't  the  value  of  tlic 
pencil  that  mattered,  though  a  pen- 
cil like  that  would  cost  a  dime,  and 
a  dime  was  a  lot  of  money,  but  it 
was  the  doing  of  a  dishonest  thing. 
And  it  wasn't  the  now  that  counted, 
either.    She  had  met  and  faced  that

676  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER,   1941 
difficulty  and  was  paying  for  it.    But  to  a  man;  but  afterwards  his  mouth 
it  was  that  children  grow  up  to  be  shall  be  filled  with  gravel."   Judith 
parents,  and  if  they    haven't    "in-  remembered  the  sweetness  of  Mon- 
tegrity/'  they  can't  live  right  them-  day,  when  she  had  been  the  most 
selves.    So  how  could  they  be  a  help  sought  after  child  in  the  school.  And 
and  a  blessing  to  their  own  little  she    remembered    this    afternoon, 
children?  when  she  had  sat  under  the  steps 
But  maybe  even  that  was  not  all  with  a  great  problem  in  her  head  and 
Father  was  trying  to  have  her  under-  a  pain  in  her  throat  that  went  way, 
stand.    She  read  on.    Number  nine  way  down. 
said:  ''Who  can  say,  I  have  made  my  She  was  still  ashamed,  but  under- 
heart  clean,  I  am  pure  from  my  sin?"  standing  made  her  feel  better.  The 
And  numbers  eleven  and  twelve:  badness    inside    the    pencil    didn't 
''Even  a  child  is  known  by  his  do-  hurt,  but  the  hurt  inside  a   child 
ings,  whether  his  work  be  pure,  and  made  her  do  something  about  it.    - 
whether  it  be  right.  Judith  went  and  stood  beside  Fa- 
'The  hearing  ear,  and  the  seeing  ther.    He  looked  up  from  his  read- 
eye,  the  Lord  hath  made  even  both  ing  and  waited, 
of  them."    So  being  bright  in  school  '1  have  found  it,"  Judith    said, 
was  a  gift  lent  by  the  Lord  and  must  'The  striped  pencil  was  pretty,  but 
be  carefully  used.  it  wasn't  worth  the  price  of  taking 
There  was  nothing  again  that  Ju-  something  not  mine.      Are  pretty 
dith  could  apply  until  she  came  to  things  always  not  worth  it?" 
verse  fifteen:  'There  is  gold,  and  a  "Not  always,"  Father  said,  "but 
multitude  of  rubies:  but  the  lips  of  often.     But  you  have  that  knowl- 
knowledge  are    a    precious  jewel."  edge  now,  and   that  is  a  precious 
And  there  were  striped  pencils,  too.  jewel.  It  is  not  pretty,  but  beautiful. 
Oh,  someday    she    hoped    to   have  It  is  all  the  more  beautiful  because 
touched    the    "lips    of   knowledge"  you  earned  it.     Tomorrow,  I  shall 
that  Father  had!  get  you  a  small  Bible  all  for  your 
But  it  was  the  seventeenth  verse  own.  Would  you  like  that,  Judith?" 
that  brought  her  the    true    under-  Judith  kissed  him  for  answer  and 
standing:  "Bread  of  deceit  is  sweet  the  pain  was  all  gone. 
  ^   
SOLUTION 
Carol  ChamberJain 
A  problem  solved  .  .  . 
A  sense  of  peace, 
A  happy  heart, 
A  smile's  release; 
New  love  of  life  .  .  . 
Of  everyone; 
Gone  is  strife^i- 
The  battle's  won.

The  Present-day  Need  For  Training 
Our  Daughters  In  Homemaking  Skills 
Leda  T.  Jensen 
Reliei  Society  General  Board  Member 
"Train  up  a  child  in  the  way  he  should  go;  and  when  he  is  old,  he  will  not  depart 
from  it."  (Proverbs  22:6) 
ALL  members  of  a  family  living  arts  and  skills  of  the  home.    Many 
together  in  a  home  should  be  are  untidy;  they  do  not  clean  and 
interested  in  that    home    as  repair  their  clothing;    they    cannot 
more  than  a  place  in  which  to  eat  properly  make  a  bed,  set  a  table,  or 
and  sleep  and  to  which  they  may  go  wash  dishes,  and  they  lack  mana- 
when  there  is  no  other  place  to  go.  gerial  ability.     Because  of  lack  of 
The  wise  mother,  interested  in  training,  they  have  poor  habits  which 
the  welfare  of  her  children,  does  not  are  difficult  to  overcome;  they  do 
carry  the  full  responsibility  of  the  not  enter  with  zest  into  required 
home  no  matter  how  heavy  or  light  duties,  and  it  takes  them  longer  to 
the  load  may  be.  She  enlists  the  perform  a  given  task.  A  lesser  de- 
help  and  cooperation  of  every  mem-  gree  of  happiness  is  the  result, 
ber  of  her  family.    She  trains  each 
one  to  accept  in  the  spirit  of  fair  UOMEMAKING  experiences  in- 
play  his  share  of  responsibility  and  elude  clothing  purchase,  pro- 
activity,  duction,  and  care,    food    purchase 
No  matter  what  other  interests  and    preparation,    home    improve- 
a  girl  has  in  life,  what  line  of  aca-  ment  activities,  infant    care,   guid- 
demic  learning  she  desires  to  pursue,  ance    of    children,    home    manage- 
what  service  she  chooses  to  render  ment,  consumer  buying  as  well  as 
in  the  wodd,  every  normal  gid  ex-  experiences  in  family  and  social  re- 
pects  some  day  to  marry  and  have  lationships  and   personal   care  and 
a  home.     Such  being  the  case,  re-  improvement. 
gardless  of  the  training  she  may  ac-  The  more  we  know  about  any 
quire  in  other  fields,  she  should  be  subject,  and  the  more  skillful  we  are 
trained  in  the  art  and  skill  of  home-  at  performing  any  task,  the  more 
making.  Girls  cannot  fully  enjoy  satisfaction  we  derive  therefrom, 
their  homes  and  families  unless  they  The  gid  who  does  not  know  the 
have  learned  proper  values  relative  easy  and  effective  means  of  house- 
to  homemaking  activities.  keeping,  how  to  purchase  and  wisely 
Heads  of  dormitories,  mothers  in  conserve      household      furnishings, 
mission  homes,  matrons  in  nurses'  clothing,  and  food  supplies,  how  to 
homes  and  elsewhere    where    gids  prepare  balanced  meals,  how  to  care 
come  together  to  live  in  groups,  re-  for  the  baby,  how  to  make  her  home 
port  that  many  giris  show  little  evi-  livable  and   attractive,   may   substi- 
dence  of  having  been  trained  in  the  tute  confusion,  conflict  and  distaste 
Page  677
