The Three Witnesses of the Book of Mormon Preston Nibley THE vision of the Three Witnesses of the Book of Mormon took place on the Peter Whitmer farm, three miles south of Waterloo, in western New York, some time during the latter part of June 1829. About one month previous to this event, the young Prophet Joseph, with his wife Emma and his scribe Oliver Cowdery, had arrived at the Whitmer home after a journey from Harmony, Pennsylvania, where a considerable portion of the Sacred Record had been translated. The reason that Joseph, Emma, and Oliver left Harmony, was that they were being constantly harassed and persecuted by their neighbors. Emma's father, Isaac Hale, had Practically ordered them away from his premises. It was at wagon, and had brought them to his father's home. The Whitmer family, in 1820, consisted of the father, Peter Whitmer, his wife, Mary, and seven children, five sons. And two daughters, It was not an easy task for them to take into their log home the three visitors from Harmony, but they were all deeply impressed with the nature and importance of the young was completed, about the latter part of June. The vision of this important event, we have the following: that keeps His commandments"; immediately afterwards, we heard a from out of the bright light above us, saying, "These plates the power of God, translated by the translation of Such were the circumstances of the great vision of the Three Witnesses of the Book of Mormon. It is not necessary to reproduce their written testimony here, as it has been read and tread, and has appeared Page 431 432 in every copy of the Book of Mormon from 1830 until the present time. Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris were obscure, unpretentious men when they witnessed the great event related above. Had they not formed the acquaintance of Joseph Smith it is doubtful if any one of them would ever have been known beyond his small community. They were not great men; but what they saw and heard on this June day in the little grove on Father Whitmer's farm was great. There is nothing greater! For here once more was definite, conclusive evidence that there is a God in Heaven, and that He is mindful of His children here upon earth. According to the accounts, Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris "were overjoyed with the greatness of the things they had seen and heard!" Yet, strange as it may seem, not one of them was able to continue long in the Church under the leadership of the Prophet Joseph Smith. All of them soon began to assume that they were better qualified to lead the Church than was the man whom God had called to found His Kingdom. Shortly after their great vision, Oliver Cowdery wrote Joseph a curt letter commanding him to change a verse in one of the revelations. Martin Hartis had already caused the Prophet great trouble by going contrary to his advice with regard to the first 116 pages of the manuscript of the Book of Mormon. Through his disobedience the precious document had been stolen and destroyed. David Whitmer, after locating with the Saints in Kirtland, had actually connived with a group of apostates to have Joseph deposed as the head of the Church and himself elected to that exalted position. Not one of the Three Witnesses could be true servants to the greatest man of modern times; they could not recognize his greatness; they had not learned the principle of loyalty. When the time arrived that Oliver Cowdery and David Whitmer came out in open rebellion against the Prophet, in Missouri, he permitted the High Council to take action against them, and they were excommunicated from the Church. Martin Harris was not excommunicated, but when the members of the Church moved away from Kirtland, he remained on his farm in that vicinity and became inactive. After the year 1838, Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris went their separate ways. Oliver Cowdery studied law, and practiced to some extent in Ohio, Wisconsin, and Michigan. He kept up a correspondence with some of the leading brethren of the Church, but made no attempt to reunite with them. However, in October 1848, four years after the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery, with his wife and daughter, arrived at Kanesville, Iowa, to outfit for the long journey across the plains. Here he met with Apostle Orson Hyde and expressed his desire to again unite with the Mormon people, and join them in their gathering place in Salt Lake Valley. He was accordingly rebaptized and accepted into the Church. Ina public meeting at this time he made the following strong statement: I wrote with my own pen the entire Book of Mormon (save a few pages) as it fell from the lips of the Prophet Joseph 434 lived five years among the members of the Church in the valleys, and bore testimony of the vision to everyone who was interested in hearing his message. My own _ father, Charles W. Nibley, was one of those who heard him. Martin Harris died at Clarkston, Utah, on July loth, 1875. During his last illness, according to his son, Martin Harris, Jr., "he continued to talk and testify to the truth of the Book of Mormon, and he was in his happiest mood when he could get somebody to listen to his testimony.... The last audible words he spoke were something about the witnesses." (Andrew Jenson, L. D. S. Biographical Encyclopedia, Vol. 1, p. 276.) It is to the everlasting honor of Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris that, amidst the changing scenes and vicissitudes of life, they remained true to their testimony of the divine origin of the Book of Mormon. ?