[Vol55 | June 1968 | Page 421 | Fiction | The Pickle Booth Frances | C. Yost]
pickle booth." "A pickle booth?" "Yes, your pickles go over so well, that instead of crowding them in with the cooked foods, we wanted to feature them in a booth by themselves. Now, we want you to be in charge of this booth. You can decorate it 422 as you like. If you need help, you can ask anyone you desire to help you." "That probably won't be necessary; land sakes, I have more time on my hands than most folks. But if I need some help, you can be rest assured that [ll be asking for it." The summer wore on, and every day Maggie McGee picked the cucumbers that were ready in her garden. Before the sun dropped in the west, the cucumbers were miraculously turned into delicious pickles placed in uniform pint jars. How many jars of pickles? Maggie McGee hadn't had time to count them. But there were plenty to line a tiny booth, that was for sure. Niow autumn reigned in all her golden glory, and the day for the bazaar had arrived. Relief Society sisters were busy arranging booths laden with handiwork and baking. In the most central location stood the tiny pickle booth, which was a sheer delight to behold. Maggie McGee was good at anything she put her active, gnarled old hands to. Now she had turned artist to decorate her little pickle booth. An arch framed the little booth, and she had designed a sign to go at the center of the arch. Two green cucumber men were holding up a sign which read "Pickle Booth." The pickle booth was decorated with white paper on which Maggie McGee had drawn all sorts of vegetable people, with tiny pin legs and arms, and with pretty faces showing smiling features and laughing eyes. Each picture, whether it was a tomato, cauli- flower, or onion, looked good enough to eat. Although the booths for the bazaar were all lovely and held people's interest, the pickle booth stood out like an emerald isle jewel of interest. As the Relief Society sisters passed by to their own assignments, they would say: "Put my name on a jar of pickles, Sister McGee." Then someone else would pass by and say: "Put my name on a jar of pickles, Sister McGee." Now that Maggie McGee had the pickles made, the drawings done, and the booth completed, and she had a little time to relax on her little stool in her pickle booth, she started wondering. Were the sisters just trying to make her feel happy? Had she made so many jars of pickles they were afraid they would not be sold, and they were afraid she might feel bad. Were they just helping out to salve her feelings? "If anyone else says, 'Put my name on a jar of pickles,' ['ll, ea,...." "Put my name on a jar of pickles, Sister McGee." "I'1—I'll do it." And she did. Maggie McGee's eyes were rather tear-dimmed as she wrote the names on the slips and pasted them on each bottle. She kept telling herself that the money went into the Relief Society fund. It wasn't as if she were selling the pickles for herself. Of course she didn't have a lot to live on, but the Lord provided the necessities of life for her, she didn't need money, though she would like to travel a bit. The crowd at the pickle booth The Pickle Booth passed in a steady stream as the bazaar progressed during the evening. Many bottles of pickles passed over the counter. Many more were tagged ready for pickup when the bazaar ended. Still, there remained a large supply of jars of pickles on the shelf behind her. Yes, she had overdone the pickle business. "If they don't sell tonight, they'll keep." Maggie McGee sighed and shrugged her shoulders. But the selling continued. Maggie had a moment to look up and around. Who was the strange man walking across the hall with President Clayson? Why they were coming directly toward the pickle booth. What could such a distinguished man be wanting? "Mrs. McGee," President Clayson began. Why, she always called her either Sister Maggie or Sister McGee. Why the formality? "Mrs. McGee, I want you to meet Mr. J. R. King of the King Food Corporation. He wants to sample your pickles." Maggie McGee smiled. "Sure and I'm glad to meet you, Mr. King." Others bought the jar on face value. They did not require a sample, a taste. But it takes all kinds to make up a world, she thought. "I am sorry that I do not have a spoon, nor some bread and butter for tasting. But you are welcome to have a full jar to take on your way, sir." "T brought over a spoon from 'the kitchen, Sister McGee, and a plate with a slice of bread and butter." Mrs. Clayson was smiling her reassurance. 

423 June 1968

 The crowd seemed to be watching what took place at the pickle booth, but they kept at a distance, as if this were a most important event, and they did not wish to spoil it. Mr. King unscrewed a jar. He spread the pickles generously on the slice of bread, and put it to his mouth. It reminded Maggie McGee of a hungry boy made suddenly happy with good food. After several large bites, Mr. King spoke. "Very good! Simply delicious!" "Sure and I'm glad that you like them, and would you lke to buy a jar from the society?" "Mrs. McGee, I might as well get right down to business. I am always searching for new foods. Especially am I looking for new pickles. That is my business, you know. I want your recipe." "I'll be glad to share it with you. Most folks are sort of lazy when it comes to making pickles. They prefer to pick up a jar ready for the table. But if you wish, you're welcome to my recipe. It is my own, you understand?" "That is what Mrs. Clayson told me. You have originated this bread-and-butter pickle? "Sure and I did." "We pay quite well for a new "You needn't sir. I haven't given it out, but I'm not one to be selfish." "It isn't just the recipe we pay for. I want you to go to Chicago and oversee the making of the pickle in our factory; the first batch, that is. The trip is paid both ways, and your expenses while in Chicago. You'll have a franchise on the recipe— royalty on every bottle sold, you understand?" Maggie McGee didn't exactly understand. But she had always wanted to travel. She hadn't left the valley since she came from dear old Ireland as a child. If Mr. King was willing to pay her way to Chicago so she could show them how to make her pickles, she could hardly pass up such an offer. "Would you be willing to sell your recipe under these conditions, Mrs. McGee?" "It's the luck of the Irish and the blessings of Heavenly Father, and m glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. King. I think that I shall enjoy a trip to Chicago, and I'm free to leave at any moment you would be wishing for me to do so." Maggie McGee's smile was her nicest Irish smile. Mr. King returned her smile with that "Little boy with bread-and-butter pickles" grin. Recipe." Raindrops Are silver words To earth.