REPORTS OF STAKES ON MATERNITY AND HEALTH WORK President Williams called for three-minute reports from a number of the stake representatives present, regarding their work in the interest of the maternity and health work. She explained that the Relief Society women have been cooperating with the state health departments very successfully in the administration of the Shepphard-Towner Act. The Relief Society, throughout the organization has supported the state health departments in conducting clinics and health centers. In addition to the cooperative program with the various state health aepartments, the Relief Society has been working out a program which includes the establishment of maternity chests, bundles, and layettes. The stakes were called in alphabetical order to report their work along these lines. Alberta.—The stake has established a maternity chest, supplied with bundles and layettes. Each ward has one bundle. Additional clothing is on hand in the stake maternity chests, for sale or for gifts to the needy. There is a good hospital in the stake, with three fine physicians on the staff. Alpine —Three health clinics have been held. The stake is divided into districts each of which has maternity bundles. In two of these districts there are hospitals, and the bundles are kept at these hospitals. The high school teacher has asked for 
 the privilege of having her domestic art Rimdlentd make layettes. Many minor operations have been performed. The doctors have been very willing to cooperate in the work. Bannock.—Health clinics have been held, and valuable lectures on nutrition and health have beer given by the local doctors, nurses and county agents. Bear, Lake—Each ward has made some effort toward establishing maternity bundles. Several wards are beginning to fill their maternity chests with emergency supplies. A number of wards have bundles for use in case of death. A clinic was held in September where ninety children were examined. Follow-up work has been done in all but three of these cases. During the summer months courses are planned in nutrition and child welfare and used when there are no regular outlined lessons furnished by the General Board. Bear River —There are three health centers organized in this stake. These are carried on by competent committees, upon which the Relief Society is represented, which operate under a general committee composed of the stake board. In those wards which are centrally located the health centers have been established, and are equipped with the necessary articles for carrying on the work. The centers are well attended and the doctors very willingly give their help and support to the work. All wards have maternity chests and bundles. All the maternity work done by the Relief Society in this stake has been financed from the interest on the interest of the wheat fund. It is planned, if necessary, to use the wheat interest itself later. Beaver—The Relief Society women of this stake assisted with the Red Cross roll call, and were allowed 50% of all money collected through them to assist in the maternity and health work. They have also used the interest on the wheat money. A clinic is held one day each month at Beaver, the central location. The local doctors and nurses have cooperated and given their services. Much good has resulted from the examinations made at the clinic. The clinic is proving to be very beneficial to the young prospective mothers in this stake. There are no maternity bundles in the ward as yet. Each ward has on hand bed pans, and other emergency equipment. Benson.—Seven health conferences have been held in six different towns, and every ward has had access to these conferences. Very effective follow-up work has been done. The physicans in the locality are not quite converted to the idea, but it is hoped that their cooperation will be gained in the future. Big Horn—This stake has cooperated with the Wyoming health nurse and has held a number of three-day clinics. Two wards of the stake are 150 miles away but clinics were held there RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 293 also. The physicians in these distant wards were not converted to the necessity for the work, and so a physican went with the stake people to these wards to do the work. Follow-up work is dcne and reports made to the state nurse. The larger wards have maternity chests. The smaller wards have a few articles on hand. Many health lectures and nutrition classes have been held. Bingham.—The Relief Society of this stake cooperates with the Red Cross health center. All organizations in the town participate in the work of the health center, which has been conducted during the past year under the direction of the state child welfare department. The state health nurses make surveys of the work done and they find that health conditions have greatly improved. Two stake board members are sent with the nurse who makes the survey, so that word may be brought back to the Relief Society stake board of the results of the clinic. The wheat interest has been pooled. It amounts to $360, which is in the bank under the direction of the stake board. A plan is being worked out whereby the money may be used. This plan has been approved by the stake presidency and the cooperatiun of the county commissioners and local physicians and hospital board has been secured. The plan worked out makes provision whereby the hospital will give rates to women recommended by the Relief Society. Women may enter the hospital for ten days at a rate of $30 (2-bed room.) The regular rate is $43, so this is a reduction of $13. The doctors charge regularly $35 for maternity cases in the city, and beyond the city limits, a mileage charge is made in addition, which in some cases would make the total cost about $50. They have given a reduced rate as low as $25 for the cases that are brought into the hospital. The stake, however, must assure the doctors their $25 and also assure the hospital tne $30. This makes a saving of $24 for all cases which are put in the hospital. Cases are very carefully inspected and doctors join with the Relief Society officers in deciding who should have reduced rates. When it is found that a patient cannot afford the $55 reduced rate, the Relief Society assists. For example the Relief Society may contribute $30, providing the husband pays the $25 for the doctor. Women who do not care to go to the hospital are helped where necessary in their home confinements, sometimes to the amount of sheets, pillow cases, towels, diapers, etc. If any articles are needed $15. Need has not been found for maternity bundles, but for in a ward, the stake is called upon to supply the needs from the central chest, as these articles are provided by the wheat interest fund which the wards have pooled. Blackfoot—This stake gave an entertainment and secured funds, which were used to supply each ward with a maternity 
 bundle and emergency supplies. The layettes made are sold. There was no health nurse in this county, so a Relief Society committee interviewed the county commissioners, the Red Cross authorities, and the school officers, and succeeded in raising enough money to finance a county nurse. Shelley stake is also located in the same county, and gave money for this purpose, and shares _in the nursing service. The board in charge of the community health work consists of one member of each organization which assists in financing the proposition. The doctors give their services wherever necessary. Two children with spinal curvatures have been sent to Shriners' hospitals for treatment. Blaine.—The stake has been cooperating with the state health department. Each ward in the stake has held a health conference where mothers and infants were examined. Follow-up work has been done, and operations performed where necessary. The physicians feel that through this health work the lives of many mothers and children have been saved. There is a nurse, supported by the Delano fund (which is a memorial established in honor of her parents by Miss Delano, a nurse who died during the war) in the northern part of the state. The Delano fund fund provides for five field nurses, and the Red Cross determines where these nurses shall work. The Blaine stake has been fortunate in securing one of these five nurses to work in that section of the state. Under the auspices of the Red Cross, a course of twelve lessons has been given in each ward of the stake, in nursing. Over three hundred school children have been examined and much follow-up work has been done. There is a splendid spirit of cooperation between the stake Relief Society and the local physicians and hospital authorities. In one ward where goitre symptoms were found to be very prevalent among school children the Relief Society financed the treatment of these cases. There is one maternity hospital in the northern part of the state. Boise—There is a Salvation Army Rescue Home, in Boise, for unfortunate girls. The stake Relief Society has been able to help unfortunate girls in getting into this home. Any girl who belongs to the Church is taken care of there and the stake helps to pay the expenses if necessary. Dr. Almond, the state physician feels that the Relief Society women are among the most capable and most efficient women he has met throughout the state in taking care of unfortunate people in their communities. Most of the wards have maternity chests started. The stake board provided some articles for each ward to encourage them to begin their maternity chests. Some of them have very beautiful chests built especially for the purpose. So far, the bundles have not been used very extensively. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 295 Box Elder.—Relief Society officers cooperate with the state health officers. Every ward in the stake has maternity bundles on hand. Brigham City wards have the benefit of a competent nurse who takes charge of the bundles. The local doctors think the establishment of the maternity bundles is one of the best things ever done in the community. The bundles are in use all the time. There is a permanent health center at Brigham City. There have been many operations as a result of the clinics held. The local doctors and dentists are in full sympathy with the clinic work and give their hearty support. The graduate nurse gives nutrition talks. The health work is not only greatly appreciated by the doctors and nurses, but by; the people as well, and it has been a great saving for those of modest means. The stake is planning to establish a loan fund for mothers who need a little help for hospital care. Burley—The wards have been instructed to get maternity chests established. One health clinic has been held. Cottonwood.—In Cottonwood stake a clinic has been in operation for three and a-half years. The doctors work on the rotary plan. The clinic is held every Thursday. Infants and children of pre-school age are examined. The stake board feels very fortunate in having a splendid graduate nurse as one of its members. At present, an average of over thirty children are examined every week. The maternity hospital established by this stake accommodates ten people, and at present there are seven new babies there. So many applications are being received for reservations in the maternity hospital, that it is feared the hospital will be unable to accommodate them all. Dr. Beatty. State health commissioner, recently visited the hospital and said it was one of the best of its kind he had ever seen. He said he hoped to see such homes as this established all over the state. He feels that the Cottonwood stake maternity hospital is a model. The stake officers have the full cooperation of the county doctors. There is a staff of twelve doctors, and they also work on the rotary system at the hospital. There are two house ductors subject to call in case of emergency. A charge of $40 is made for two weeks (foucteen days), and everything necessary is furnished by the hospital except the mother's underwear. The laundry for the baby is done, and the layette is furnished and all medicine necessary, except special perscriptions by the doctors. The doctors in the hospital charge $30 per case; outside of the hospital, they vharge $35. The women who come to the hospital may have any doctor they wish who is a member of the hospital staff. The doctors are doing all they can to encourage women to go to the hospital for confinement. Cache.—Two clinics have been held in connection with Logan 
 stake. At the second one, a great deal of follow-up work was reported. In Cache stake the wards have begun to establish maternity chests, but are planning to keep on hand only the articles which they think will be used frequently. Jayettes are made and furnished to needy mothers at the time of confinement. The Relief Society women feel that about the only articles which can be kept on hand, without deteriorating from age, are bed pans and douch cans. Rubber gloves are also held for use. Carbon.—The wards in the coal camps are well looked after by the doctors and nurses employed by the coal companies. Health clinics are held in the other wards. All the wards are working to get the maternity chests, bundles and layettes. It is felt that a great deal of good has resulted from the health centers.