SUPERVISION IN EMPLOYMENT Miss Lydia Alder, Relief Society Welfare Department. The prevention of unemployment is such a big problem that we could not hope to solve it here—but as social workers, we are in a position to do a great deal to alleviate the sufferings of those who are thrown out of employment: (1) by administering to the wants of those who are unemployed and (2) by using our influence to see that proper legislation is enacted in their behalf. We are just emerging from a severe industrial depression, perhaps one of the worst known in our history. During this time, we all, as social workers, have been taxed to our utmost in meeting the varied problems which such a period naturally inflicts upon the communities. According to Bernard Shaw, the trouble with the poor is their poverty. Think then how much would be removed from their sufferings if they had adequate incomes. We will all agree that insufficient wages, insufficient leisure, insufficient employment, and unwholesome and improper working conditions give rise to a great part of our social troubles. It is much more important to eliminate the causes than it is to attempt to alleviate the results. Professor Warner in his book American Charities says that in an effort to tabulate the causes of poverty, he found that in 50% of the cases studied, the sole and predominant cause of distress was insufficient income. Facts such as these led to the organization of committees to study industrial conditions, with the result that we are gradually obtaining laws for the protection of the laboring class. A direct result of this study is that practically every state in the Union and the Federal Government have some sort of legislation limiting the hours of labor, also establishing a minimum wage. Prior to 1907, there had been no legislation regarding industrial insurance but today practically every state has this insurance to protect its laboring class. Of course, the thing we are looking forward to is when we will have social insurance against unemployment which means that when a man is torced into idleness, he will receive insurance during; the time he is idle. This plan is being received with favor, but as far as I know, it has not been enacted anywhere in this country. In our own community, the employment situation is still very bad. An employment bureau has been opened by the city, and the superintendent of this bureau reports that there are 3,500 men RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE out of work in Salt Lake City. They are trying to give men temporary work in lieu of permanent positions of which there is a dearth. All winter long, we have tried to deal with the stupendous problem. We have had numerous families come to Salt Lake from the rural communities, who have thought conditions would be better here, but after months of disheartening experiences, they are glad to return to their farms where they are at' least sure of a roof over their heads. Our monthly reports from the Relief Society Employment Bureau for Women shows that during this depression work has mot been so scarce for women as it has for men. Every day women come to us with the story that the man of the house is out of employment and has been for months and they are forced to seek employment. In instances of this kind, the man becomes the housewife and cares for the children during the mother's absence. I don't think they particularly care for this role—but the women are glad to seek employment if there is a chance for them to obtain even a remnant of an income. In conclusion, I would like to say a little more about our Employment Bureau for Women. We are serving hundreds of girls and women each month, trying to give them proper vocational guidance in addition to proper employinent. We have a great many girls coming in from out of town and we are especially interested in them and endeavor to place them in suitable places. I should like to relate two instances to you of the service rendered two girls who applied to our bureau. Not long ago, a young girl came into our office asking for employment. The experienced eyes of our bureau detected immediately that the girl had a goitre and that. She needed medical attention rather than employment. Another girl was sent to our office by the Y. W. C. A. Employment Bureau where she had applied for work. It was learned that the girl already had a position in a home as a domestic, but she was restiess and wanted a change. In fact, she intimated that she was having some mental difficulty and she thought that ultimately she might develop some mental disorder. A mental expert was consulted who said the girl was suffering from a slight melancholia which might result in a permanent mental condition, if she was not given the proper environment. In going into the situation more thoroughly it was found that the girl had been working in wealthy families, and at the time she came to the office she was employed as a nurse maid in a home where she was considered as a servant and was not allowed to associate with the family at alt. She had no friends, and she did not seem to have the ability to make any. An effort was made to find out if the girl was interested in any one thing, and one day she confided to the visitor that since she RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 303 was a small child she had wanted to be a nurse. This confession gave us something to work to. A position was secured for the girl as clerk which enabled her to earn enough money to buy her uniforms and she is now in training in one or our own local hospitals. Her close association with the other nurses has solved her mental difficulty and her ambition has been attained.