Literature LESSON III (Third Week in February) Epna St, Vincent MauAy Edna St. Vincent Malay has added romance to the deep significance already attached to the 22nd of F ebruary, by virtue of its being the day on which George Washington was born.

This will be the February lesson, and it will be given somewhere near the date of Washington's birthday.

On that day Miss Malay will be 35 years of age.

She not only followed tradition in being born on February 22, but the place of her birth suggests American poetry.

She was born in Rockland, Maine, which state reminds us of the birthplace of Henry W. Longfellow.

She passed her childhood in New England, where she had her first training.

Later she entered ' Vassar college, from which institution she was graduated in 1917. 4 New York is at present her home, and has been since the time; of her graduation.

Miss Malay has a musical name.

When Mr. Ellsworth, the former reader for the Century Magazine, was visiting Utah last winter, he said he could not repeat her name without desiring to add another line that would rhyme, such as, "Edna St. Vincent Malay, on a lovely Summer's day," etc. It is noticeable that her name is both musical and rhythmical.

She is versatile; she writes poetry; has translated several songs; writes plays and takes part as a performer in the plays when written.

She has both written and performed for the Provincetown Players.

She wrote the outstanding poem of the year 1912, a year which produced a good many lyrics of quality.

She was then hardly 19 years of age, but the poem "Renascence" which is her longest, is one of the best poems written by any of the new poets.

Her poem, "God's World" is a passion of appreciation for.

The beauties of nature.

She tells us that the loveliness of Fall has all but drawn her soul from her, and she implores the Creator that to all that there is before her, nothing be added.

"Let.

Fall no burning leaf; prythee, let no bird call." GOD'S WORLD O World, I cannot hold thee close enough!

Thy winds, thy wide grey skies!

Thy mists that roll and rise!

Thy woods, this autumn day, that ache and sag And all but cry with color!

That gaunt crag To crush!

To lift the lean of that black bluff!

World, World, I cannot get thee close enough! 
 Long have I known a glory in it all, But never knew I this; Here such a passion is As stretcheth me apart.

Lord, I do fear ' Thou'st made the world too beautiful this year.

My soul is all but out of me,?let fall No burning leaf; prithee, let no bird call.

In "The Pear Tree" we 'have a familiar picture.

It is the -- dooryard of squalor, where there is little to cheer or make glad, and where untidiness and dirt are everywhere in evidence.

The one thing that breaks this sorry sight is a little pear tree, which reminds the poet of "the waste-man's little daughter in her first communion dress." THE PEAR TREE In this squalid, dirty dooryard, Where the chickens scratch and run,. White, incredible, the pear tree Stands apart and takes the sun, Mindful of the eyes upon it, 'Vain of its new holiness, Like the waste-man's little daughter In her first communion dress.

Like many other poets she has a deep appreciation for the worth of a good book.

Milton has told us that "a good book is the lifeblood of a master spirit, embalmed to a life beyond life." Holmes refers to a librarian as a "sexton of the alcove tombs, where men in leathern cerements lie." In her poem, 'The Poet and His Book," Miss Malay has the same deep appreciation for 'the soul-content of a book as had Milton and Holmes.

She asks the question: "When shall I be dead?

When my flesh is withered, And above my head Yellow pollen gathered All the empty afternoon?

When sweet lovers pause and wonder Who am I that lie thereunder, Hidden from the moon?" She replies that this is personal death, which is by no means death.

But in that hour, when her book is unread, and it rots to earth obscurely, then she will be approaching death.

And so she calls for the people, when her book shall be selling for a casual penny on the market, not to let her die.

She asks the boys and girls that slowly walk in the woods, and weep, and quarrel, staring past the pink wild laurel, to mix her with their talk.

"Do not-let me die!" she exclaims to the farmers at their raking: To the shepherds on the hill in the pastures drowsing; to men that long for sleep, and men that wake and revel; to women at their toil, or women at their leisure, "Read me, margin me with scrawling,?Do not let me die!" And then she defies the sexton, telling him that "Many a metal wreath shall rust in the rain, and I go singing Through the lots where you are flinging Yellow clay on dust!" " THE POET AND HIS BOOK Down, you mongrel, Death!

Back into your kennel!

I have stolen breath In a stalk of fennel!

You shall scratch and you shall whine Many a night, and you shall worry Many a bone, before you bury One sweet bone of mine!

When shall I be dead?

When my flesh is withered, And above my head, Yellow pollen gathered All the empty afternoon?

When sweet lovers pause and wonder Who am I that lie thereunder, Hidden from the moon?

This my personal death?? That my lungs be failing To inhale the breath Others are exhaling?

This my subtle spirit's end?? Ah, when the thawed winter splashes Over these chance dust and ashes, Weep not me, my friend!

Me, by no means dead.; In that hour, but surely Rots to earth obscurely, And no more to any breast, Close against the clamorous swelling Of the thing there is no telling, Are these pages pressed!

When this book is mould, And a book of many Waiting to be sold For a casual penny, In a little open case, In a street unclean and cluttered, Where a heavy mud is spattered, From the passing drays, Stranger, pause and look; From the dust of ages Lift this little book, Turn the tattered pages, Read me, do not let me die!

Steadfast in the broken binding All that once was I! When these veins are weeds, When these hollowed sockets Watch the rooty seeds Bursting down like rockets, ' When this book unread, ' - c Search the fading letters, finding 
 And surmise the spring again, Or, remote in that black cupboard, 'Watch the pink worms writhing upward At the smell of rain, Boys and girls that lie Whispering in the hedges, Do not let me die; Mix me in your pledges; Boys and girls that slowly walk In the woods, and, weep, and quarrel, Staring past the pink wild laurel, Mix me with your talk.

Do not let me die!

Farmers at your raking, When the sun is high, While the hay is making, When, along the stubble strewn, Withering on their stalks uneaten, Strawberries turn dark and sweeten In the lapse of noon; Shepherds on the hills, In the pastures, drowsing To the tinkling bells Of the brown sheep browsing; Sailors crying through the storm; Scholars at your study; hunters Lost amid the whirling winter's Whiteness uniform; Men that long for sleep; Men that wake and revel;? If an old song leap To your senses' level At such moments, may it be Sometimes, though a moment only, Some forgotten, quaint and homely Vehicle of me!

Women at your toil, 'Women at your leisure Till the kettle boil, ' Snatch of me your pleasure, Where the broom-straw marks the leaf; Women quiet with your weeping, Lest you wake a workman sleeping, Mix me with your grief!

Boys and girls that steal From the shocking laughter Of the old, to kneel By a dripping rafter Under the discolored eaves, Out of trunks with hingless covers Lifting tales of saint and lovers, Travelers, goblins, thieves.

Suns that shine by night, Mountains made from valleys,? Bear me to the light, Flat upon your bellies.

By the webby window lie, Where the little flies are crawling,? Read me, margin me with scrawling, Do not let me die!

Sexton, ply your trade!

In a shower of gravel Stamp upon your spade!

Many a rose shal{ ravel, Many a metal wreath shall rust In the rain, and, I go singing Through the lots where you are flinging Yellow clay on dust!

Questions and 'Problems 1. Select some words from "God's World" that indicate Miss Malay's passionate love for nature. 2. What emotion is revealed in the desire to bring the earth closer? 3. See if you can call to mind some barren spot made bright by a single tree. 4. Call to mind some barren spot made bright in some other way. 5. Discuss some of the qualities that a book must possess to make it immortal. 6. Name some book that you think may live for all time. 7. Have someone read the poem "Renascence" and discuss the most vital passages in it.