MEMORIAL RESOLUTIONS.

	At the annual meeting of the American
Woman Suffrage Association held in Cincin-
nati Ohio, the following Resolutious were read
and adopted in which we concur and desire to
express our appreciation of the same—and of
the noble work accomplished by these able and
efficient laborers in the interest, amelioration
and elevation of humanity.—ED. 
		MARY F. THOMAS. M. D.
	“Since our last annual meeting, one of the
pioneers in the woman suffrage movement has
passed away. Mary F. Thomas is dead. A
life of great usefulness is ended, and the
American Woman Suffrage Association has
sustained a great loss. She was the possessor
of that highest kind of courage which was al-
ways ready to avow its convictions in the face
of adverse public opinion, and of that kind of
magnanimity which could bear, without re-
sentment, every manner of unjust criticism and
obloquy from those around her. By her
blameless  life and the manifest sincerity of
purpose which pervaded everything she did,
she finally subdued all animosities, and died
universally respected, honored and loved.
The solemn earnestness which characterized all
her acts, and perhaps, most of all, her efforts
for the enfranchisement of her sex, was accom-
panied at all times with singular modesty,
gentleness and charity for the shortcomings of
others. Selfishness was absent from her nature.
She saw the right and struggled to maintain it
for its own sake, not for the sake of herself or
of anything which it could bring to her. Her


life was a busy one, and it was spent in doing
good.  Healing the sick, relieving the poor, 
and comforting the afflicted,—these things were,
with her, not the recreations of idle moments;
they were her daily work, the business of her
life. She did not court but rather avoided
notoriety.  As she lived, so she died. An
abiding conviction that her course was right
remained with her to her last hour.  Of her,
as completely as of any we have ever known, 
may it be said that she filled to the utmost the
measure of her duty.  She was in the fullest
sense of the word all that a woman ought to
be."

