SALT LAKE CITY,	DECEMBER 15, 1888.


[Column 1]
			CHRISTMAS 1888.
	Christmas is at hand, and the city seems to be
alive with display for the festive occasion. All
around are evidences of the approaching event.
Who would have believed forty years ago, that
such a showing of good things, and of beautiful
things, of all kinds and in every variety could
have been made in these mountain vales. Another
sort of life has dawned upon the people since that
primitive time; plenty has showered in upon the
inhabitants of Zion, or one would naturally think
so, if they walked abroad at mid-day and gazed
about; and at night the place is resplendent with
lights, that show off to advantage the gaily dressed
and decorated shop windows. One can scarcely
decide what to buy, there is so much to choose
from. Truly the Lord has comforted Zion with
the good things of the earth, and prosperity
abounds on every hand; none need go hungry or
destitute within all her borders, for the system of
organization is so perfect that it reaches every
individual. And the Saints delight in giving
liberally of the abundance with which the Lord
has blessed them.
	There are some circumstances one could wish
were otherwise; for instance, many of the good
brethren are in prison for conscience' sake, and
that will cast a gloom over the home, where the
husband and father is absent on this account, but
even this is better than being a free man at the
sacrifice of principle; and there is comfort in the
thought that one is suffering for keeping a higher
law, rather than for disobeying a commandment
of God, as many are in this Christian land, that
boasts of its high civilization and enlightenment.
	It is good to have such occasions as these to
warm up the heart and awaken a fresh interest in
the welfare of others. It keeps one from growing
selfish, to be, as it were, constrained now and then
to stop in the midst of care and a press of busi-
ness to take a little respite, and enter into the joys
of his own household, perchance, and partake of
the good cheer, that is so plentiful whenever holi-
day time comes round. The custom of giving at
this season is one that heightens much the enjoy-
ment of Christmas. There is assuredly more
blessing in giving than in receiving, and the giver
is always rewarded in the sweet consciousness of
having performed a noble act, and it is something
that abides in the heart forever, and will always
be a pleasant remembrance. The satisfaction of
carrying joy to a human soul by a noble action, or
a gift wisely bestowed without ostentation, is
precious indeed. It is not so much the value of
an offering as it is the good taste of the giver in
selecting, and the delicacy with which it is given.
The manner is often more than the matter. The
days of adversity through which many of this peo-
ple have passed ought to have been useful lessons
to them in this regard. It is good to know how
[Column 2]
to feel for others, and the best way to know is by
passing through similar experiences. And after
all none have passed through the severe
ordeals that the Savior endured whose advent
upon earth the people celebrate at Christmas
time. He could feel for the destitute and the
wretched, for He knew the most intense suffering.
One learns by what he suffers, and in this way
understands how to appreciate the condition of
others.
	These are good times for Zion, even if severe
tests have come; it is the time of proving, and to
those who can endure the reward will be sure.
Therefore, one cannot help feeling it is a good
time, and while there is prosperity and plenty,
and health and strength, and seed time and har-
vest, there is no occasion to murmur or rebel at
the dispensations of a kind Providence. The
nations of the earth are in His hands, and as
rivers of water He turneth them whithersoever
He will, and whether Harrison or Cleveland sit
in the White House, or Democrats or Republi-
cans have a majority in Congress, it will matter
very little to this people, so they keep the com-
mandments of God and the testimony of the truth
of the Gospel; Zion will come off victorious. The
eventful year 1888 is fast closing; great things
were anticipated by many during the year that
has now almost passed; perhaps too much was
expected, for grown people are very like children,
and when the reality comes it does not always
satisfy expectancy.
	What the new year just about to dawn upon the
world will bring no one can determine, but at any
rate the Latter-day work will roll on despite all hu-
man opposition.


[column 1]
