EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE address of Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, Presi-
dent of the Central Board of the Relief Society,
is, No. 55 West Temple St., Salt Lake City, her
residenoe is nearly opposite the West Temple
Gate.
	IN company with Sister Zina D. H. Young we
had the pleasure of attending the quarterly
conference of the Relief Society of Weber Stake
in the Ogden Tabernacle on Thursday Dec. 13th.
There was a large and attentive audience, in the
afternoon we introduced the subject of the Na-
tional Enrollment, and distributed the papers to
the Presidents of the several branches in the
Stake. The minutes of this interesting conference
will appear in the next issue of the EXPONENT.
	WE acknowledge with pleasure the gift of
some very handsome and choice chrysanthemums
from Mrs. Ann E. Neal there were twelve varieties
of these beautiful autumn flowers. Late flowers
have a peculiar charm about them that speaks to
the heart of the summer days that are past. Re-
membrances that are sweet but sad, but which we
love to dwell upon. The cultivation of flowers
is one of the delights of life.


[column 1]
 			WOMAN.
     What can be said of her? Much, every way.
She is the mother of the human race; the source
if, not the author, of all man's joys and sorrows,
pains and pleasures. She is the embodiment of 
extremes. The reckless daring with which she
defied her Maker's law and power; and brought
to man his legacy of sin and sorrow; her sincere
devotion, her undying love for him who came to
deliver and redeem the race from all the sad con-
sequences of her transgression, are instances
without parallell in the history of womanhood.
     In her sphere she fills many very important 
relations, which  enable her to exert a power-
ful influence over the entire race of man. Man's
destiny is virtually in her hands, is prostrate at
her feet. The development of his powers all
come under the magic wand of her culture. It is 
woman that both refines and elevates the emo-
tional nature of the race, and fills it with aspira-
tions of honor, and a desire of virtuous reward.
     Her mission on earth in the relations of sister,
wife and mother, well filled, entitle her to man's 
love and protection; the approbation and ministra-
tion of angels, and the redeeming love of her
Maker—God.
     Her acute sensitive temperament, her devotional
nature, her noble quallties of heart and mind,
are endowments which richly qualify her for the
duties of these several stations assigned. Though
woman is from and of the man, she is not the
man, neither indeed can she be. She is a separate
and distinct creation, and has her sphere of action
and duty, which requires both organization and 
powers the man does not possess. As a helpmate
she is not the slave of man.
     The poet fancied he could tell woman her
sphere, when he complimentary wrote:

	"Heaven when it had created man,
	Unfinished found creation's plan;
	Though men and angels were a kin,
	A chasm still appeared between,
	Nor would the links together meet,
	Till WOMAN made the chain complete."

     That she is "the mother of all living," none will

[column 2]
dispute. The link indeed between heaven and 
earth that connects all of the spiritual world
with those who are below. She alone is fitted and 
endowed with capabilities to be the usher of all
spirits into their earthly home. 
     Filled for this high duty she is more spiritual in
her nature; the nervous system predominating,
her sensibility is greater than in man. Born to
feed and to inspire the kind and tender affections,
she is exempt from the fierce passions which
often characterize man, and love and maternal
affection are among the deepest springs of emotion
in woman’s hearts. In fact, she possesses the very
pecularities of the Christian religion; its spirit
of love and devotion, of tenderness and charity,
kindness and affection, which so eminently
qualify her to receive and nurture the innocence
of youthful life, without which there is no blessed
happy home, no truly educated one fitted for the
social duties of a Christian life, either for society
or country.
     The history of woman from early times, and in
nearly all countries has been one of servitude and
often of sorrow and hardships imposed by him
who claims the right to have rule over her, because
her desires should be unto him. As Christianity 
increases respect for woman follows in the wake,
and she is assuming her place, and exerting an
influence and power that is moulding society into
that refinement and purity that her nature de-
mands. This is especially the case among the
Saints where she is more appreciated in her re-
lations to the man and society than among any
other people. There she is an active worker in
the great labor of man’s redemption, a minister of 
sacred things for the perfection of her race. 
There she learns the full import of her calling
here, and the glorious destiny of her future.
As sister she is the life and love of the home
circle. Around her cluster not only the fondness
of parental love, but the innumerable exhibitions 
of brotherly regard, by which she is made to feel
her power to contribute to the happiness of
home, and in the midst of which she becomes a
refiner and purifier of the feelings and the affec-
tions which make the family circle better for her
presence, her absence ever to be deplored. 
In this relation she is not restricted to the home
circle, where she learns so well her lessons of
love and sympathy which make her the admira-
tion of man and the delight of angels; but the
virtue of this relation she carries with her through
all the conditions and relations of an entire life— 
she is ever sister in God's great family of living
souls.
     As wife her pledge of love is unreserved, and
she, as such, the choicest gift of God to man.
With her his joys increase, his sorrows flee; and 
the strength and virtue of union are planted upon
the citadal of home for the growth of a kingdom.
     Love in this, as in all God's institutions charac-
terize the union of husband and wife; without 
mutual love the relation will be an unhappy one,
and so defect the object God had in view. Where
this love does not exist marriage is virtually a sin,
is against the canons of human consciousness,
and the divine law. When we consider the part
woman is to take in the relation of wife, it has
been well said that "her price is far above rubies,"
but it is in the character of Mother that woman 
fills her high mission to man and earth. 
     In the capacity of mother we find blended all of
excellence and worth of womankind. In this
sphere of her life she developes those God-like
qualities with which she is so eminently endowed;
undying love, filial regard for offspring, begetting
tenderness of affection, and stimulating all the
emotional nature of man's being.
     In some instances, the highest type of divine
excellence in humanity has made its appearance
in woman as mother. Her power of endurance


under the most trying circumstances; her charity,
that which like the love of God, endureth and 
hopeth all things, and is richly endowed with the 
attribute of mercy.
	This was more than ordinarily manifested in the
life and character of her who was the mother of
the prophet Joseph Smith. She once remarked 
to the writer of this, concerning a son who had
been indifferent at times to her motherly advice.
"He has endeared himself to me by the trouble
he has made me," and this sentiment was a reflex
of her true character—a sentiment worthy of the 
Gods in Heaven, found in the heart of woman on 
earth.   Worthy indeed, to be the mother of pro-
phets, patriarchs and seers, is one whose love
could not be turned into hate even by a disregard
of parental authority. How faithfully was repre-
sented by her the chrracter of our Heavenly 
Father, who, when His children on earth refused
to recognize His parental authority, witheld not
His love, did not cast them off, but placed a sacri-
fice upon the altar, a divine pledge of His forgiving
mercy that was ever ready and free to the return-
ing prodigal. So God-like in character was
woman, one who was virtually mother on earth
of God's great and last dispensation to her race.
	And it is indeed well for the race of man, that
others have followed most gloriously in the wake
of her example and shed forth those genial rays of
refining influence that now prompt a rising gen-
eration of sons and daughters in Israel to emulate
the deeds and honor the virtues of woman and 
mother. Mothers in Israel to-day do not forget
to honor the mission that Jesus gave to woman in
recognition of her fidelity to him and his cause. 
She was honored with the first commission given
by the immortal Jesus,—a commission which has
never been revoked. It was woman who was 
first authorized to announce the fact of a risen
Jesus; it was woman who was first to seek him
and learn the fact that death had been overcome.
Her eyes had seen, her ears had heard, and being
a competent witness, she was commanded to 
bear testimony of it even to his sleeping indifferent
disciples.
	In no capacity can woman bear this testimony
with effect, and more appropriately than in that
of mother to those committed to her care for
training and instruction. This may well be the 
burden of the divine lesson to be taught by every
mother in all the ranks of growing Isreal. A
Christ crucified and put to death; a Savior risen
from the dead; an immortal Jesus that would not
be touched by mortal hands, ascending into heaven
in the presence of many witnesses; returning to
his Father on the glorious termination of his
earthly mission with a promise that he will come
again in like manner as he went, are all truths
that every mother should not fail to have instilled
into every youthful mind committed to her care
and guidance. Let his life and virtues be the
standard for all other lives; and the lessons of 
his life be taught at a time when they can never
be lost to the memory of those who may have
learned them. Then shall a generation arise that
will love and live the life of Him in whom their
faith has grown, and be prepared to meet him
at his coming when he shall return from heaven
in like manner as he went to heaveu. 
	In this glorious endeavor, let every mother be
a fore-runner preparing the way of his coming,
so that when he shall appear he will find faith on
earth, a living faith as enduring as a mother's
love, and as powerful as is woman in wielding
the affections, and moulding the virtues of our
race, into the image and glory of her God. 

	What heighth of glory, depth of love,
	Woman can give her worth to prove !
	With her, the man, as God may be,
	And reign, redeemed, Eternally.
				
