THE WEDDING OF THE KING.

O'er all the earth the human tribes waged warfare, man to
	man,
Like fires that sweep the praries wild, their ruthless passion
	ran.
O, not alone the Heathen's hate, spurned mercy, fear or
	right,
Their Christian brothers led the way like lions in their might.
Earth's mighty trees bore on their trunks the wounds of
	shot and shell,
And dainty flowers and waters clear, the blood stain bore
	as well.
Beside his tent, upon his bow and spear, the dark man
	slept,
And sleepless watch, beside the wall, the white faced sentry
	kept.
And women's songs were turned to tears beside their
	children's bed,
Too often, prayer was hushed, to hear the flames hiss o'er
	their heads.
Ah, nowhere on the earth might these find hours of peace
	again,
Since war had loosed her hounds in hordes, o'er mountain,
	forest, plain.
As though aghast at deeds of men, the skies hung dark and
	low,
Nor answered to the wind and rain, the once bright, glorious
	bow.
All nature seemed at variance with her established laws,
And earthquake's terrors broke between the tempest's fitful
	pause.
Now lurid gleamed through heavy clouds the lightning's
	vivid flame,
And in the once blue arch above, strange signs of nature
	came.
The heavy seas far inland rolled their waves of gloom and
	death,
And farther backward rose in clouds the plauge's black,
	poison breath.

O, all the hearts of men grew sick, at last, with deeds of sin,
And bowed in fear before the power that mocked their souls
	within:
Their puny wrath that laid in wreck the work of ages old.
Lay prone before the Mightier, that man could not control
Then came the time of penitence, and hope of death to
	some,
While others still their Maker mocked, or in despair were
	dumb.

Yet, far away in mountain vales one kingdom stood alone,
From ev'ry land they gathered there around its steadfast
	throne.
Lo! peace and plenty blessed their land, firm faith their
	spirits thrilled;
There the distressed found in their midst, justice and love
	fulfilled.
In ministrations diligent they stood a noble band,
And watched unshrinking through the storm, the Father's
	guardian hand.

There came at last to weary earth a time of rest once more,
Like the blest ease that comes to man when fever's work is
	o'er;
A partial peace like that which rests in homes where one
	has died,
For suffering ended. Ah, this hush of hearts on every side
Yet slowly strength and peace returned, the lonely cry was
	stilled,
And myriad souls looked up to learn the way the Father
	willed.

The skies once more shone bright and clear, yet, in their
	endless blue,
Came wondrous signs that Saints adored, and knew their
	portent true.
The wandering winds strayed idly by, as troubadours of old
For love of all things beautiful, in blissful pleasure strolled;

[Column 2]

Rains that refreshed the thirsty earth, fell soft as evening
	dew,
And snows that cloaked the mountains old, no icy coldness
	knew.
The bright winged creatures dreamily went lilting all along,
The flowers were fairer, and more sweet, each creature's
	voice and song.

The humbled tribes of every land their loyal homage brought
And came, to gaze of wondering men, the Lost Tribes
	vainly sought.
One message blest, reached every heart and ruled in every
	land,
The Gospel's high and kingly power prevailed on every
	hand.
O, earth in peace and beauty drest, ne'er was so bright be-
	fore,
Since human ills and nature's frowns were ended and no
	more.

There came a day, a lovelier than man remembered yet,
When gathered in fraternal love His chosen children met.
A glorious tower, not built by hands, reached up from earth
	to sky,
Its summit hid in fleecy clouds that veiled it from the eye.
Long waited there the faithful band in silence and in prayer,
Till flesh was weary; then a sound of music rent the air.
Quick raised each eye to whence it came, when through
	the riven blue,
The flash of golden instruments burst on the watcher's
	view.
Those golden harps! their thrilling strings spoke to the
	trembling soul,
Those golden trumpets! loud and clear, they swelled above
	the whole;
The blest musicians, as they stood in trailing robes of
	white,
The raptured singers—lifting up their faces' pearly light;
They led adown a winding stair from tower's height to base,
A wondrous, radiant pageant of heavenly power and grace.
Behind their white feet followed One, most glorious to view,
Celestial beauty in His form, yet gentlest movement too;
Those eyes that read all human thought and blessed each
	trembling soul,
O, every heart bowed down within in ecstacy untold!

Then followed still a solemn throng in even step and time,
And chanted in one chorus grand a hymn of joy sublime.
They stepped upon the rude, brown earth, the throng below
	joined in,
And followed to a Temple's door, where all was light
	within.
The clasp and kiss of parted souls united once again,
The riven veil twixt life and death, twixt Zion's past and
	then!
For rusted chains that martyr's wore, their golden crowns
	were wrought.
For women's tears o'er martyrs shed, lo, priceless pearls
	were brought.
O, that was wondrous joy, indeed; too vast for human
	tongue,
And through it all, in harmony, the glorious words they
	sung!

Around the table gathered all, the Church above, below;
The marriage supper oft foretold by prophets long ago.
There was no light of moon or sun, or golden censers
	bright—
There was no need—the Bridegroom was their living life and
	light.
No gate was closed, for only they whose right it was came
	in,
There was no danger and no tears, for all were pure from
	sin.
They who had suffered for His sake drank wine with Him
	again;
Lo, earth was free, her Lord was here, her King, the
	Prince of men.

