		COMPLICATED CASES.

	The confiscation of Church property under the
Edmunds law of 1887, has been the cause of more
anxiety, seemingly, to the outside element here in
Utah, than to the interested parties themselves.
The "Church Suits," so called, have been argued
in the Utah Courts, and have been appealed to the
Supreme Court of the United States. Since the
appeal was made, questions have arisen here in
regard to the the compensation of the Receiver
(Marshal Dyer), and the fees of the lawyers em-
ployed in the cases. The parties representing
the interests of the schools of Utah, to which,
according to the provisions of the Edmunds law,
the property thus confiscated will finally be de-
voted, are greatly exercised over the exorbitant
fees and compensation of those who have been
handling, or holding the Church property in trust
until the final adjustment of the case.
	These parties have demanded of Marshal Dyer
the Receiver, an explanation of the whole affair,
and have brought the case before the Commission-
er's court, and it has been laid over to be submit-
ted to the Territorial Court, which meets in
January next. Meantime the Receiver has filed
his answer to Judge Zane, who has charge of the
affair in the interest of schools, and takes issue
with the Judge on all material points named.
What the result of this controversy will be it is
not easy to determine, but it is very clear they are
after the "spoils."
	Now comes Senator Edmunds to the front
again, with a resolution from the judiciary com-
mittee of the Senate of the United States, "call-
ing on the Attorney General for information con-
cerning the execution of the act of March 3, 1887,
in reference to bigamy, and also to report the
names of all United States officers, who had any
connection with such execution, in what capacity
and what compensation had been received by
them. He explained that the act declared for-
feited the property of the Church of Latter-day
Saints; that it was stated, the judges in Utah had
appointed the marshal of that territory, receiver of
[column 2]
said property; that the marshal had employed as
his private and personal counsel in the receiver-
ship the district attorney of the United States;
that some of the property had been sold and a
fund opened; that enormous and exorbitant al-
lowances were demanded for the services of the
receiver and his counsel, and that the school
boards, for whose benefit the property had been
forfeited, had been obliged to employ private
counsel to resist such demands."
	So it would appear that there is to be a real in-
vestigation, if Senator Edmunds' influence can
bring it about, and when judges and lawyers get
hold of the affair, it is likely to be in dispute for
some time, for who shall decide when they dis-
agree? and they are not very likely to agree. The
CASE, however, as far as the Church interests are
concerned, has been advanced in the calendar of
the Supreme Court of the United States, and will
be argued January 14, 1889. Hon. F. S. Richards,
lawyer for the Church, now in Washington in the
interest of the Church cases, will be there
when the case dissolving the corporation of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and
confiscating its property, is argued in the highest
tribunal in the land; and also the still more im-
portant question of the powers of Congress to
interfere in matters relating to ecclesiastical or-
ganizations, and to escheat property to the United
States belonging to dissolved corporations instead
of its distribution to the individual owners accord-
ing to established rules of legal precedure."
	The reasons assigned by Mr. Richards why the
court should advance the case are such as should
be understood by all parties interested, and briefly
and clearly explained are as follows:

	First—It is a cause in which the United States
are concerned as a party.
	Second—It is a cause which involves matters of
public interest, very nearly and seriously affecting
a very large portion of the citizens, residents and
property-owners of the Territory of Utah.
	"Third—It is a cause involving the constitution-
ality of certain Acts of the Congress of  the
United States.
	"Fourth—Under the decree appealed from, a
very large amount of property belonging to the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has
been seized and is now held by a receiver. Much
of said property being of a perishable nature,
great and irreparable loss and damage will ensue
if the property seized and held is left in the hands
of the receiver for the three years or more before
this case could be reached in regular order. If
said receivership is so long continued, the costs
and expenses thereof, and the loss sustained by
reason thereof, will amount to a virtual confisca-
tion of very large amounts of property, and will be
in effect a denial of justice.
	"Fifth—Said cause involves a question of
general public interest to the inhabitants of all the
Territories, because it involves the question of
the power of Congress to control and restrict the
rights of all church corporations, of all kinds and
denominations, in the matter of acquiring and
holding real and personal property, and the power
and right of Congress to dissolve church corpora-
tions and declare the property of such corpora-
tions forfeited and escheated to the United
States.
	"Sixth—Under said decree appealed from, the
United States has seized and now holds by its
receiver possession of several hundreds of thou-
sands of dollars worth of personal property be-
longing to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints, and claims that the same has become
forfeited and escheated to the United States, with-
out the shadow or semblance of any law or laws
granting any such right or power.
	"Seventh—Under said decree appealed from,
the United States have seized, and now hold by a
receiver, possession of real estate belonging to
he Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints


[Column 1]
of the value of several hundreds of thousands of 
dollars, and claim the right to forfeit and escheat
said real estate to the United States, notwith-
standing the fact admitted of record, that said real
estate has been possessed, held and used by or in
trust for said Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints ever since the year 1848, under the full
power and sanction of the statutes of the Terri-
tory of Utah and the laws of the Congress of the
United States, and nothwithstanding the further
fact that a portion of said real estate so sought to
be escheated to the United States has been for
more than ten years last past, and was at the time
of the passage of said act of Congress of March
3, 1887, held and occupied exclusively for the pur-
poses of a parsonage for said Church.
	"Eighth—There are now pending in the supreme
and district courts of the Territory of Utah seven
other suits which involve the same questions that
arise in this case, and the final determination
of them will depend upon the decision of this
court as to the constitutionality of the aforesaid
acts of Congress, and the other points involved 
herein.
	"For the foregoing and other good and sufficient
reasons appearing of record in this cause, the
appellants pray this honorable court to advance 
the case on the docket and assign it final hearing
at an early day."
	This is a matter of great moment to all the peo-
ple of these United States, for it involves ques-
tions of the utmost importance, and it is "devoutly
to be wished" that the lawyers of the Supreme
Court, who are really the interpreters of all laws
enacted, shall render a decision that will be an
honor to the Supreme bench, and the country
they represent in the most essential manner in the 
interests of justice and equity. It is not so much
the question of dollars and cents, or of property
rights, as it is the rights of individuals to, "life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness." In this
free and grand Republic it is strange indeed if an
organization such as the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, must be restrained, or restricted
in the use of means directly devoted to religious
and benevolent purposes, and that has been freely
donated for this purpose by the people. Other 
churches and various denominations of Christians
own large amounts of property, and places of
worship worth immense sums of money, and when
one church can be thus treated and its property
confiscated by the government, it must also follow
naturally that other churches may be similarly de-
prived of the same rights. No doubt the cry 
would be in reference to this subject, that "Mor-
monism" is not religion;—because the popular
religious element of the world is against it, but
who is there that is authorized to declare what the
Gospel is, or what true religion consists in, except
as it compares with the Bible, the sacred word of
God? And when that is done, the Gospel in
which the Latter-day Saints believe and have
accepted, as taught in this day, is an exact type of
the Gospel as preached by the Savior and His
disciples. There are many who have been in-
duced to join in the persecution against this people
and to urge special legislation against them, that
have no correct idea whatever of the doctrines
or the precepte taught. In fact, they want the Ed-
munds law enforced, without knowing what the
law really is. Men and women, strangers in this
city, have expressed their views in this office on
this very subject, and have said, "Mormonism
must go," "The laws must be honored," "Youg
people are an alien people," and many other simi-
lar assertions, and yet would betray their ignor-
ance of the situation and the doctrine, and the re-
cently enacted laws to suppress polygamy and
punish unlawful cohabitation, etc., and the conse-
quences of the enforcement of the law, and were
entirely unaware either of what had been done, or
of what the conditions of the people were. Many
outside of Utah consider all the people as law-
[Column 2]
breakers because  they have read sensational
paragraphs in the newspapers, or heard the ru-
mors that float, as it were, upon the air, and swoop
down upon the innocent and unsophisticated, fill-
ing them with prejudice and hatred they know not
why.


