ANNIVERSARY OF HER BIRTH.	

My heart is filled with gratitude and praise
To Him who kindly lengthened out thy days,
That thou might’st live to celebrate on earth,
The Seventieth Anniversary of thy birth.

In life’s long drama thou hast played a part,
Requiring true integrity of heart,		
Wisdom unbounded, courage, strength of mind,
With patience, love and charity combined.

And since, obedient to thy Father’s will,
Thou cam’st to earth a mission to fulfill, 
Hast striven humbly thy life-work to know,
And nobly filled thy mission here below.

Armed with virtue, purity and truth,
Thou passed unscathed the trying scenes of youth,
And entered woman’s realm of usefulness,
A spirit pure, to comfort, cheer and bless.

United, then, to one of sterling worth,
An honest man, a noble son of earth,
A wife’s whole duty thou didst strive to do,  
As faithful helpmeet, and wise counselor, too.

The Gospel plan was then to thee made known,
The way to life and exaltation shown; 
Thy soul rejoiced the heavenly truths to hear,
And faithful proved through each succeeding year.

Though trials came, thy heart with grief to fill,
Thou bow'st in meek submission to His will
Who doeth all things well.  He knows thy heart,
To thee a crown of glory will impart.
But not till charms of motherhood were thine,
Did thy true woman's soul resplendent shine.
Thou art, indeed, with virtues manifold,
A mother, of the purest, truest mould.

With many gems thy mother's crown is set, 
O, may they never cause thee to regret
The years of toil, care, suffering without measure.
Thou hast endured to give them life and pleasure.

And though some jewels rare that thou hast worn,
Hath from thy earthly crown with grief been torn,
They sparkle yet in realms of purity,
And thine shall be through all eternity.

Oh, how can words our loving thoughts express?
They seem so cold, so weak, so meaningless:	
The heart’s affections they cannot reveal, 
The depth of love and gratitude we feel.

May heaven bless thee! angels hover near,
To shield, protect, to comfort, bless and cheer;
May life, health, peace, prosperity be thine, 
And every blessing round thy pathway shine.

And though my heart would other words dictate, 
I will refrain, and humbly dedicate
These simple lines to her who gave me birth,
A loving tribute to a mother’s worth.
								M. H. T.
Nov. 20, 1888.


[column 1]
			  REMINDERS.
	"Let fate do her worst, there are moments of joy,
	Bright dreams of the past, which she cannot destroy,
	Which come in the night time of sorrow and care,
	And bring back the features that joy used to wear."

	One of the best reminders of the good old
days, is holiday week.  It is also a rejuvenator
to young and old.  Everybody expects to be
on their good behavior and to have some little
leisure; to lay aside for the time, as it were, the
every day homely cares of life and take up the
wand of enchantment that turns everything it
touches into joy and gladness.  He who is not
happy, who carries with him some great sorrow
anticipates ministering to the happiness of
others, and in so doing forgets his own grief.
How sublime the self-forgetfulness that many
people exercise on holiday occasions.  I never
could understand why some people dislike holi-
[column 2]
days, for even though we do double duty, it is
of such a pleasant nature, that it buoys one up
instead of depressing the spirit.
	Happy mothers in pleasant homes all over
the broad land, are preparing and arranging
for the Christmas Holidays; every pulse thrills
with joy at the anticipation of the advent of
"Santa Claus," and even in the poorest, hum-
blest homes, there are gladder thoughts at
Christmas time, for there are many benefactors
who remember the needy, and give liberally of
the abundance which it has been their lot to
possess.
	To the children Christmas is a time of feast-
ing and festivity—merry laughter and glad-
some mirth, but to those who have arrived at
the soberer period of life, and who have battled
much with the cold, hard world, it is a sort of
rest by the wayside, where for a little time
they gather-fresh hope, from bright flowers,
woven into memory's garland, that were culled
in the days gone by and linked with the silver
cords of love that thrill through every fibre of
the human heart at the gentlest touch.  Each
one of these giving both pleasure and pain, and
each one having its own peculiar history.

	"When time has past and seasons fled,
	Your hearts will feel like mine,
	And aye, the sang will maist delight
	That minds ye o' lang syne."

	Even the children will stop in the midst of 
their wild delight or noisiest games to listen to
the song, or story of olden times, for there is a 
charm about the old, that fascinates the ear,
and in imagination we draw a picture, we can-
not help it; we think of the stories we have
heard from the beautiful lips now closed in
dreamless sleep, and the very remembrance
stimulates us to so perform our part on like
occasions, that our children and our friend's
children may remember us, as lovingly as we
do those, who gladdened our hearts by their
presence and contributed to our entertainment
in the long ago.  We even recall the very
look, the manner, the dress and aye the tone of
voice of those who were our good angels in
former Christmas days.  We know how the
church was decorated and festooned and how
the great bell pealed forth as it were the an-
thems of gladness.  The evergreens were to us
symbols of that affection, which neither cold
nor heat could ever change, but would always
be fresh and green at whatever season.
	The great wide open fire-places were always
inviting, and the turkey that swung to and fro
on the spicket, growing browner and browner,
is one of the incidents memory has no power to
efface.  "There were giants in those days," as
well as "fairies and elves," and there were those
who fancied ghosts still hovered round, casting
their gloomy shadows over the happiest fire-
sides, and the hobgoblin tales that make the
children's eyes sparkle with delight, have been
handed down from generation to generation,
and are still repeated with the same gusto.
And in those holiday evenings, after the savory
dinner, and dessert of plum puddings, pies,
cakes and fruits, then followed the gathering
in groups around to hold sweet converse.  Al-
most every country house is profusely, if not
artistically, decorated with evergreen in boughs
and vines, and the aroma of the woods is in the
atmosphere of the rooms; one could almost 
imagine himself in an open forest, so odorous
is  the air with these delightful perfumes.  Red
and white winter berries peeping out from
among the evergreens, make a most tasteful
picture.  These are little things, but children
never forget them; they make an impression
upon the mind lasting as life itself, and one
who in childhood has been accustomed to such
scenes and gatherings can shut his eyes any-
where, even in a foreign land, and see the place,
the friends, the details of the room, and almost
hear the merry laughter and the music.  As the
poet has said,
[column 3]
	"It haunts me still, though many a year has fled,
	Like some wild melody."

	I know there are matter-of-fact people who
think the money spent for evergreens or flowers, 
is simply thrown away, when one cannot go
into the woods and gather them free, which is
of course ever so much jollier, and they will fre-
quently remark, it would buy so much meat,
sugar, or some substantial; but on festive oc-
casions, birthdays, or holidays, I would very
much prefer a few flowers, and some wildwood
branches, or tangled vines, to such an elaborate
dinner or repast as is usually served up to
tempt the appetite.  Eating is not one’s whole
object in life; simple fare, with peace and con-
tentment, is more conducive to health and
happiness, and, I might add, a long life as
well.
	Many a time and oft have I strolled through
woods and groves in holiday time, to gather
the woodland trophies of pine, spruce and hem-
lock boughs, and the trailing vines that lie
buried under a mass of dead leaves, and old
moss, when perhaps the snow, too, had covered
them deep, but we heeded it not—we were
youthful and exuberant, the pulse of life was
quick, and we only looked upon it as a part of
the holiday fun—then, turning our faces home-
ward, fancied ourselves wood nymphs, so fan-
tastic would be our appearance among the
boughs and vines, and we would repeat to each
other the most weird and frightful legends we
could recall,—especially the boys, who delighted
in teasing and frightening, if possible, the
timid girls; hiding in hollow logs and springing
out suddenly in lone places, to make us run 
and scream, but all was fair at the holiday
season, and an offence was usually forgiven
with a kiss, for these, you know, are always
plenty, when good humor and merriment
abound.
	Music and dancing are generally a part of
the holiday entertainment, and the old dances, 
such as the Scotch Reel and Sir Roger de
Coverly, are most in favor, but the good old
songs and stories please the children, and we
ransack memory's cabinet where many precious
gems lie hidden 'mid cobwebs and dust, to re-
call the words, once so familiar to our ears.
Tears sparkle in the eye, and great sobs swell
up in our throats, forbidding utterance for a
moment, as we are reminded of the sweet
voices that once mingled in glad chorus with
the happy throng around the hearthstone in
the old, old home.  But life is made up of
sunshine and shade, and "'tis sweet to remem-
ber" e'en though there were some paths thickly
strewn with thorns, yet there were blossoms too,
and the joy was more exquisite by contrast.
	"There's a feeling within us that loves to revert
	To the merry old times that are gone."

	"O, how glorious 'twill be," when we will be
able to sit down and converse with those now
"beyond the gates," and recount the many
scenes, over which "memory loves to linger."
But while here let us enjoy the blessings vouch-
safed by our Father in heaven, not forgetful of
the little courtesies and attentions that are so
charming coming from those we love, and that
give zest to the amusements and festivities
whether in the halls of the rich or the cottages
of the poor.
