THE CHILDREN'S CHRISTMAS.

	All the children are on tiptoe with expectancy
just before Christmas time. What would
Christmas be in fact if it were not for the chil-
dren? It seems as though Christmas was
CHILDREN'S DAY and so it ought to be, for it
it is celebrated in honor of the most royal
babe that was ever born upon the earth.
Our blessed Savior, whose coming was heralded
by hosts of angels singing and a new star
arose in the east, and there was great rejoicing
in heaven as well as upon the earth, when the
heavenly choirs joined in the anthem that
ushered in the new born king.
	And so at Christmas time it is customary to
rejoice in the day set apart as the anniversary
of his birth, and there is great reason for joy
and gladness. The children should be happy,
even if they do not have so many beautiful
things, and so much to eat.
	The children are overflowing with exuberance
now-a days when Christmas comes round
there is so much merriment and festivity, and
they have more than a good time; in fact, it is
impossible to express in words the gladness that
beams in their radiant faces. I wonder some-
times if they really ever do stop to think of all
the pleasures that are planned for them. If I
had plenty of leisure, I'll tell you what I
would do for the children at Christmas. I
would have a children's party; not a fancy
ball, nor a dinner party either, but a story
party; and I would gather as many of the
little folks as my house would hold, and sit
down in their midst and tell them stories, and
they should be real stories; and I should feel
fully repaid with the sparkle of the bright
eyes, and the pleasure it would be to them.
In fact I think perhaps they have too many
toys and gay dresses, and sweetmeats, and sim-
ple tales well told would be a nice change, and
then they would keep so quiet, and listen, in-
stead of making such an uproarious noise as

[Column 2]

they often do with drums and trumpets and all
manner of toys, until mamma and papa and
grandma are tempted to wish that Santa Claus
would never come again.
	I have been waiting and looking for some
one to send me a story for the children this
Christmas, but I have decided at last that the
best way to do, is to depend upon one's self, but
I'll tell you what I think the reason is, there
are so many dolls to dress and pies and pud-
dings to make, and turkeys and chickens to
be roasted, and so many stockings to darn and
buttons to sew on, and dear little stockings to
hang up in the corner; and then you know
there are so many story books to buy, that I
guess the ladies who write for the EXPONENT
think it is not necessary. I know the children
like the stories they hear better than those they
read, and that is the reason I would like to
tell one, better than to write it, yet, if I had
not put it off so long I would write a story
myself, but may be it would be a sad one, be-
cause I know of many little ones, they call
them foundlings, who have no nice home, no
big sisters to dress their dolls, nor not even a
mamma or grandma, and I've been thinking a
great deal lately about these little darlings and
wondering whether Santa Claus had been told
about these forlorn little ones or not. I saw a
whole house full of them not long ago in a
great city by the seashore, and I thought
then of our little folks here at home, and the
beautiful young mothers, so proud and happy
for their sakes; and the dear grandma's and O,
so many things that I cannot tell you now,
but one thing I will tell you—and it is—that
all these little children want somebody to love
and kiss and caress them, and their little hearts
pine for love, even if they have ever so many
nice things, for love is the best of all; how
cold and dreary this world would be if there
was no love in it. Children cannot be happy
without love and they are entitled to it; it
is their right and legacy, and if Santa Claus
should bring to these motherless waifs, lots of
pretty gifts, they would want the love all the
same; and if we could have more real true
love in the world we would all be happier for
it. Jesus loved little children, He took them
in his arms and blest them, and told His
disciples to be like unto them or they could not
enter the kingdom of heaven. And He will
not forget the motherless ones,and the Heavenly
Father's care will be over them, and our
dear little children in Zion should be not only
happy and joyous, but grateful for the pleasant
homes, kind parents, and the love that fills
their hearts to overflowing, and especially on
Christmas.

	"God rest you, little children,
		Let nothing you affright,	
	For Jesus Christ your Savior 
		Was born this happy night."

	And perhaps I	ought to tell you why I so
love the children, and think so much about
them, and feel so anxious to do something for
them:

	"Because of little death-cold feet for earth's
		Rough roads unmeet,
	I'd journey leagues to save from sin or harm
		Such little feet;
	And count the lowliest service done for them 
		So sacred—sweet!"

	I wanted to tell you a story children, but it is
too late now, and you cannot all come and
listen, so I think I will write one and your
mamma will read it to you after Christmas is
past, and it shall be a true one, even if it makes
you cry, as it does me on Christmas night.
