THE CHRISTMAS TREE.

	What a busy, noisy day it has been; storm
and sleet outside, so that all had to stay within,
and the sweet little ones have romped and
danced about in the noisiest, prettiest way, and
now night has come on, and the pretty golden
heads are resting on the snowy pillows, and the
house is still; no sound but the gentle, quiet
breathing of the children, the occasional wail
of the wind, as he sweeps around the house
corners and the soft dropping of the filmy
snow. I sit and gaze in the dying fire, and
fancied pictures come and go among the glow-
ing coals. How near to Christmas it is; only a
few more days, and oh, how different from the
Christmas's of other years. I dream, as the
coals gleam and drop, of the long ago, and
sweet visions of loved, lost faces pass before
me; days of joy and days of sorrow blending
bright and sober colors appear, as twilight with
its grey and golden tints. Wandering thoughts
and vaguest dreams circling round among the
embers seem to center now.
	A dozen years or more have passed, and be-
fore me is a vision of the happiest, gayest
Christmas all the years have ever brought.
How joyous we were that night, all the loved
ones there, and we sang and laughed and
talked of merry things, and the little ones
danced around and begged for stories of Christ-
mas cheer, scarcely dreaming how the hours
sped, until the old clock tolled the twelve
ominous strokes, and then the church bells be-
gan to ring their merry Christmas's to the
people all around; the hour, the auspicious
hour, when older folks bid each other good
cheer, when the youth try first to call out
"Christmas Gift," and the little ones see visions
of Santa Claus riding over the house tops
driving those gay reindeers with his sleigh
heaped full of pretty things. Hark, did you
not hear his bells? and now they have stopped,
stopped, right at our door; can it possibly be
that he is coming here, and we all awake to see
him? Certain there is a knock, oh, so loud,
pray do let him in? How they laugh, those
older ones, and the little ones, half in fear, half
admiration, and all expectancy, hover near the
mothers, while this great, white-bearded, snow-
covered man walks proudly in, as though all
belonged to him, and never halts until the cor-
ner of the room is reached, where, for two
long days a mysterious curtain has hung, and
now, to the magic touch of this Northern king, 
it drops, and lo ! the tree, the bright, glimmering
Christmas Tree. Oh, how our hearts leap and
our voices shout! What a happy, lovely sight !
The pretty colored lights, the gaily dressed
dolls, the boys drums and sleds, the banners
and balls and ribbons and trains, and oh, did
ever any one such a sight before behold ! Quiet,
now ye have gazed awhile on that smiling,
glimmering, dazzling tree, now hear what Santa
Claus has to say. He must hasten, there are
so many such to uncover to-night, and he
must speed away, but he tarries awhile to un-
loose a few of the gifts from the tree.
	First, our sweet little invalid, with her beau-
tiful golden curls and thoughtful eyes, yes, she
little precious heart, her pretty gift must have;
then rollicking, noisy Onie, that the rest may
hear themselves think; then dreamy, brown-
eyed Belle, that she may wake long enough to
see what Christmas has brought her; and now
our dear singing boy, whose cunning songs
have so cheered us to-night, and so on until


each little heart is made happy and light.
Then the older ones receive attention, and all
are served, and the wonderful man, with his
snowy coat and funny voice, bids us all "good
morning, and a merry Christmas."
	He is gone, gone! the door is closed, and the
jingle of the bells tells he is on his way to other
homes. A comparing of the pretty things, a
little more joking and laughing, some music,
a Christmas carol from our beautiful Louise,
and the little one's eyes grow dim, and peaceful
sleep embraces them, while some one enters
now, not a great white man, but a beautiful,
laughing girl, calling Christmas gift to all
around, and flitting from one to another with
her bright, cheery words. Who is she, this
lovely girl, who carries light into the room as
the waxen candles are fading. who brings such
joy to our hearts on this cold Christmas morn-
ing? It was our Santa Claus, but now it is
only Our Em. What matter that our brother
had to go out in the cold unwrapped. while she
had purloined his big rough coat and covered
it with cotton and spangles; what matter that
the bells were missing when the sleigh had
to be used; what matter that the lights went
out in the hall just when the children were
romping there; it is all plain enough now, and
the happy hour with Santa Claus atones for
every inconvenience, and the bright hour with
the past to-night, atones for the rainy, dismal
day.
	She is gone now, our Em, and others as
dearly loved have joined her, and it is only at
times like these, when we can draw a curtain
over the present and gaze into the glowing
coals and fancy pictures there, that "the tender
grace of a day that is dead" can ever be re-
called.
	Annie W. [-]annon CAMELIA.


