	         	UTAH STAKE.
	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Utah Stake was held Dec. 1st, 1888, in
the meeting house, Provo City, Sister Mary
John, with her Counselors, presiding. Visitors
from Salt Lake, Sisters Jane S. Richards and
E. B. Wells. Conference opened with singing
and prayer. The minutes of former conference
were read and approved.
	Sister John felt grateful for the privilege of
meeting with the sisters in conference; thought
we would have a time of rejoicing together;
would first hear from some of the presidents a
verbal report, and then the sisters who were
visiting us would address the congregation.
	After the presidents had responded to the
call to report their various branches, Sister E.
B. Wells spoke to the sisters for awhile. Said
she felt pleased to meet with the sisters in Provo
again. Came there to-day feeling well in
spirit, and hoped to assist in dispelling the
gloomy feelings some of the speakers alluded
to, which was in consequence of the sickness
that had been in our midst for some time past;
thought we should try to rise above our feelings,
and acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all
things. "I suppose you all expected to meet
our President, Sister Zina Young, but she was
called away, and Sister Richards has come in
her stead; Sister Richards is First Counselor
to Sister Zina in the Central organization. It
is, I believe, the first time she has attended a
conference of the Relief Society in Provo. We
become acquainted through these Society meet-
ings and conferences. I am pleased to know
through the reports of the presidents of the
good work that is being done for the poor.
[column 2]
Apostle Moses Thatcher said recently he wanted
the teachers to hunt out the poor and lone and
comfort all, 'no matter of what color or creed.'
I think we recevie a blessing by conferring
blessings upon others. We must learn to love
our neighbors as ourselves, if we expect to at-
tain to any great excellence; we must also have
charity. We want knowledge and intelligence;
we want to inform ourselves on all subjects."
Made other remarks upon gaining wisdom and
understanding, and helping others.
	Sister Richards said she felt weak in appear-
ing before us to-day. She came here by request
of Sister Zina, but not to fill Sister Zina's
place. "We all have our own place; we all
came into the world for a purpose; we knew
before we came here what we were coming for.
We should acknowledge the hand of the Lord
in all things; when our children die we know
they are saved; they cannot go astray, and if
we are faithful we shall meet with them again.
This is the work of the Lord in which we are
engaged. Our enemies cannot keep us from
praying. Sister Eliza Snow likened this life to
the kitchen; but when we leave this world, if
we are faithful, we will take a higher position,
and will have our reward. Let us teach our
children purity and good principles, and, as
Sister Eliza said, let us teach them a little, and
set them good examples, etc. We should all at-
tend our meetings; let us pray for those that
have no desire to come to meeting. The Lord
gives us our means, and let us be charitable
with it, and help others, whether in or out of
our Church." Sister Richards made other re-
marks upon the duties of the sisters.
	After singing, conference adjourned till 2
p.m. Benediction by Coun. Emily Cluff.
	Afternoon session: Opened with the usual
exercises.
	Sister Cluff announced to the sisters that
Bro. Graves would speak a few minutes on the
silk question, after which we would again hear
from our visiting sisters.
	Sister Marilla Daniels spoke a short time;
said she felt strengthened, and no doubt we all
did, by the teachings we had received. "We
can all judge ourselves, but we have no right
to judge others; the Lord judges our hearts;
His hand is over all; let us live near Him with
our trust in Him; great events are at hand; we
do not realize as we ought the workings of
Providence.
	Sister E. B. Wells felt glad to see so many
out this afternoon. "If we have the good spirit
with us to soothe, comfort and bless, we are al-
most sure to find the same good spirit wherever
we go." Regretted that we as a people had
not made greater progress in the silk;	*	*
*	*	*	"It was an idea of President
Young's—silk culture; it was something that
would benefit us in time, but the expenses of
manufacturing it were greater than we could
buy the silk for, consequently many had given
up entirely and become discouraged." She
had often thought how nice it would be to have
our temples furnished with silk hangings, etc.,
of our own manufacture. Spoke feelingly on
the Primary Associations, and of the great im-
portance and blessing these meetings were to
the children; thought that mothers in a great
many instances were more indifferent and neg-
ligent than they should be in sending their
children to those associations, and did not
realize the necessity of spiritual teaching.
Spoke a short time on the National Woman's
Suffrage Association, and read some papers
bearing on that question, and in reference to
the National Enrollment, which she explained
thoroughly. Alluded to the efforts of some
women of influence, who wanted to reform
"Mormon" women, and how much need there
was of their home missionary work in the East
and West instead of coming into these valleys,
where such wickedness and degradation did not
exist.


Sister Richards again addressed the confer-
ence on various subjects; thought testimony
meetings were very interesting and instructive;
many of us are better speakers than doers.
Referred to Sister Snow’s voice in speaking, so
soft and low, yet so penetrating; "the Spirit of
God was with her and filled her whole being.
As to what Sister Wells said on the franchise
question, we need no persuading to sign the
papers for the National Enrollment; we can put
our names down to show that we believe it is
our right to vote, even if it has been taken
from us. About the silk, President Young had
a great anxiety in regard to it; I think it is
better to raise cocoons and sell them, than not
to do anything in that direction. For the
Primary Association, we have no work that is
half as important as that; teach the children
to have faith in times of sickness; tell them of
the days of Joseph, and other matters of Church
history; encourage the young ladies to live
aright, and when they marry to be married
right. Exhorted all to diligence and faithful-
ness.
	Prest. Mary John felt to thank the sisters
for their good instructions, etc.
	Conference was then adjourned for three
months. Singing, "How firm a foundation."
Benediction by Bro. Allman.
			CAROLINE DANIELS, Stake Sec.


