LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
BY M. J. TANNER.
[Continued.]
	Lockport, Sunday June 7th 1885. Lock-
port is the city of all cities to me. Here my
grandparents lived and raised their families,
and died. My parents were married here and
began life together. Their eldest child was
born here, after which they moved to Toledo
where I was born, I was brought back to my
grandparents when an infant, and the name
is treasured by me as the scene of so many
sacred ties, I can hardly say memories, for I
was so young when I left that I remember
but little of it. Here my grandparents are
buried beside their youngest son who died in
the early bloom of his manhood. Cousin
Emily and I attended Methodist meeting this
morning in a neat brick church standing on
the site of the one my father and mother were
married in, that, they tell me, was built of
frame and was burned down. The preacher,
a fine looking man, gave us a practical dis-
course on the lives of ministers in general, and
took up a collection for retired ministers and
their families. It is a long walk to church
but very pleasant and leads through the central
part of town.
	Auntie and I have a long talk in the after-
noon. We attend the Episcopal church in the
evening; it is quite a change, they have so many
ceremonies; I never saw the Episcopal service
before. The minister wears a white robe and
reads the sermon. There seems no heart in it
although it is very good.
	Lockport, Tuesday June 9th 1885. Re-
ceived a letter from Botton, Lake George,
where my husband's relatives live, inviting me
to visit with them and telling how to find them;
have not yet decided if I will go. Emily and
I went for a walk, calling on some of her
friends, and tried to identify the house that my
grandparents lived in. We find one that
we decide upon; it looks very ancient not
at all like its modern neighbors.
	Thursday June 11th 1885. The circus
came here yesterday and people turned out and
stood around on the streets just as they do at
home expecting to see something but saw
nothing worth mentioning. Auntie and I
walked out today and she showed me the
house my father built and lived in; it looked

[Column 2]
old like some others, but still stands while the
hands that built it are mouldering to dust.
	Lockport, Friday June 12th 1885. The
weather is very warm. Cousin and I walked
out to the Cold Spring Cemetery. Auntie
was not able to walk so far as she is quite ad-
vanced in years being seventy-five years old
but she is quite smart for her age and gets
around very nicely. It was a long but pleasant
walk as the road is bordered with shade trees
most of the way. The cemetery is very pleas-
antly laid out with shade trees, flowers, and grass and everything seemed so nicely cared
for, quite a contrast to some we see at home.
After searching a long time we found grand-
father's lot in an old uncared for part of the
cemetery, where weeds and young locusts ran
riot. In a few more years it will be a dense
forest of locust trees. The tomb stones were
broken and defaced by the hand of time. We
found grandfather's at last where he and
grandmother and uncle Bertrand lay side by
side. The stones were mildewed but the in-
scriptions were plain. We rested awhile and
mused on the changes and uncertainties of life,
and the certainty of death, when we too
should lie in graves as lone and uncared for
as these, and our names forgotten by the busy
world around us which would still surge on
filled with its own conceits and busy with the
cares and labors that fall on life whenever and
wherever it is. We went to the spring from
which the cemetery takes its name, and whose
water is delightfully cool after our long hot
walk; the country beyond is very hilly. We
walked slowly home and arrived at 5 p.m.,
very tired.
	Sunday, June 14th 1885. Attended Catholic
church this morning and heard "High Mass."
It was all very new and strange to me. While
standing in the vestibnle we saw people pass
the font or basin of holy water and make the
sign of the cross before entering church: We
asked a gentleman if strangers were allowed
there, and he said certainly, we should go in and
sit down wherever we chose. I find in most
churches we are liable to intrude if we enter
a seat without a proper invitation. I never
saw the Catholic services before and it is all
so strange and fantastic to me. The music
and chanting are grand; tall wax candles burn
over the altar and pictures representing different
phases in the life and death of Christ being
near. I cannot describe the services, they are
very impressive and must be seen to be appreci-
ated, though they could not then be under-
stood. Every one on entering looked toward
the pulpit and bent the knee, on entering their
seat they knelt and said a prayer (I suppose)
before they sat down, some counted
beads. When the chanting and music were
finished Father Murphy spoke from a pulpit;
he is an eloquent speaker. He denounced the
fashions and follies of the world and pictured
the terrors of hell, where millions of people
are suffering now, and will suffer throughout
the endless ages of eternity, while the good
would go to everlasting life. He denounced
the Protestants and told the people to send their
children to Catholic schools. After Father
Murphy finished, the old priest who had offici-
iated at Mass began speaking, the people began
leaving each one looking at the altar and
kneeling as they went out, and not more than
two thirds perhaps waited for the benediction.
Near the church stands a nunnery; both church
and nunnery are large substantial buildings of
grey stone; we could but wonder what kind
of life was led by those who were shut in be-
hind its walls. We hear so many strange
stories about these places that it excites our
interest, but the silent stones and painted
windows tell us nothing. It might be appro-
priate here to tell a tale that Auntie told me
of the long ago.
	In her early life she lived in Lockport and

[Column 3]
knew the circumstances as it was fresh in the
minds of those still living.
	A young priest fell in love with a maiden
who was in every way worthy of his affection
and they were secretly married. He took her
to Rochester where he visited her for awhile
without being suspected. His house was showed
me near the church where he lived with his
housekeeper. She suspicioned him and grow-
ing jealous set the other priests after him.
His crime was soon brought to light and he
was tried before the council and imprisoned.
He was finally taken to Canada and all trace
of him was lost, and the world never knew his
fate. His broken hearted wife took possession
of his home and spent her days there loved by
all who knew her. Her sad story is ended and
she has passed over to the  beyond where the
mystery of her life is long ago solved. The
house stands there grey and silent and cold, and
tells no tales of the martyred lives and broken
hopes that passed within its walls.
	We called on grandma Niles an aged lady
identified with the history of the town, she had
relatives she told us in Utah. The Murray's
one of whom was the late Vilate Kimball well
known to many at home in Utah. She began
telling me that people in Utah dare not write
to their friends in the east. I told her she
was mistaken in that for people could always
write if they wanted to. She asked what
would be the consequence if a woman wrote
when her husband had forbidden her. I said
"a family spat perhaps" I did not know what
else could happen. But I assured her that
 Brigham Young had something to do in settling
a new country and looking after his extensive
family besides watching people's letters. She
said so many offensive things that I got mad
and left. I spent the afternoon reading and
writing and preparing to go to Lake George
tomorrow. Auntie will go on to New York to
visit with cousin Ettie Kimball and Rebecca
Newman in New Jersey, where she was born
and raised. She anticipated a visit with Aunt
Fanny Ridges whose history she gave me, and,
as it is very interesting I will some day write
it for the EXPONENT.


