NOTES AND NEWS.

	Eight women were elected the first week in
this month on Massachusetts School Commit-
tees.
	Mrs. Annie Besant and Mrs. Ashton Dilke
have just been elected to the London School
Board.
	Mrs. Esther M. Hawks was nominated last
week by a meeting of the women voters of
Lynn, Mass., as a candidate for the school
board. 
	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe has almost wholly
recovered from her recent illness, and passes
her time pleasantly at her Hartford home en-
gaged in her usual occupations.
	Mrs. Nathan Appleton, of Boston, is at the 
head of a movement to raise funds for a statue
of Washington, to be presented to the French
government by the women of America. The
President and Mrs. Cleveland have promised to
lend their aid.—Ex.
	Woman suffrage gives promising signs of
gaining supporters.  Lord Salisbury has de-


clared in favor of it, and the Italian Senate'
though it has rejected a bill providing for it,
did so by a small majority.—Philadelphia,
Ledger.
	A French lady recently defended her father
before a law court with acumen worthy of
a veteran lawyer.  In recognition of her
talent the Sorbonne, which is the Paris Col-
lege of the University of France and which
affords equal opportunities to women, has
conferred on her the title of Doctor of
Sciences.
	Mrs. Marietta Holley (Josiah Allen’s wife)
is fitting up a new house for herself in Adams,
N. Y. in which provision is made for the ac-
commodation of ten or twelve guests, to be
selected from the sewing-girls of New York
City, during the summer months.  She expects
to entertain four or five sets of them in succes-
sion.—Ex.
	Emma S. Dill, of Wyoming, O., has sug-
gested to the Board of Directors of the Hamil-
ton County Agricultural Society “that a Board
of Lady Directors, appointed to act with and
under the direction of the present Board of
Directors, could greatly aid in awakening an
interest, and in the work preparatory to a good
fair each year.” This suggestion is to be acted
upon at the next meeting of the board, and if
the gentlemen will consult the Indiana State
Agricultural Annual Reports, they will find
that an auxiliary board of women has been of
decided advantage for ten years past.—Ex.

	The Earl of Salisbury, prime minister of
England, took occasion, in his address before
an audience of some 6,000 people in Edinburgh,
reeently, to speak as follows:
	“I earnestly hope the day is not far distant
when women also will bear their share in vot-
ing for members to the political world, and in
determining the policy of the country.  I can
conceive no argument by which they are ex-
cluded.  It is obvious that they are abund-
antly as fit as many who now possess suffrage,
by knowledge, by training and by character;
and their influence is likely to weigh in a direc-
tion which, in an age so material as ours, is
exceedingly valuable—namely, in the direction
of morality and religion.”


