A VETERAN MOTHER. 

	On the 20th of November last, Sister M. 
Isabella Horne reached the alloted age of 
three score and ten, or her seventieth anniver-
sary, which occasion the family had always
intended to celebrate by coming together, and
to make it a time of special rejoicing and fes-
tivity.  But unforeseen circumstances marred
their plans, and on that day the entire family 
was in deep grief; the anxious and devoted 
mother was watching with tender solicitude by
the sick bed of her eldest daughter, who died a 
few days later.  Mrs. Elizabeth H. Webb
died Nov. 27th 1888, at her home in Oasis, 
Millard county, after having endured much
suffering which she bore with great patienceand
fortitude.  A few weeks before she had given 
birth to her sixteenth child.  Her father and
mother were by her in her last moments, also
her husband and children, and if love and
intense devotion could have saved her life, she
would have been spared.  But a wise and loving
Father, who doeth all things well, saw fit to 
call her hence, and it is meet to bow in humble
resignation to the divine will and to say, "The
Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away, blessed
be the name of the Lord."
	Therefore it was a time of mourning, on 
Sister Horne's birthday, and consequently there
was no family gathering except at the solemn
funeral rites afterwards on the 28th.  But the
scriptures says "It is better to go to the house
of mourning than the house of feasting," and
Sister Horne's numerous friends, even those
who did not assemble on the sad occasion to 
express their sympathy, felt deeply for her in 
her unexpected bereavement, and would gladly 
have offered the only consolation possible at 
such a time, that of words of hope and sincere
affection.  But we all know how poor and 
weak language is to express sympathy in sor-
row, and that only the Holy Spirit can give
true comfort.  And while Sister Horne's
friends extend their heartfelt sympathy in her
bereavement they also congratulate her on
having attained the age that entitles her to 
enter the ranks of a veteran mother in Israel, 
with all the honors of a long life of good works
and noble deeds; as well as a numerous poster-
ity, who rise up and call her blessed, her hus-
band also, and he praiseth her.  "Yea verily,
she stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea she
stretcheth forth her hand to the needy."
	Sister Horne's mission since the first organ-
ization of the Relief Society has been an active
one in the field at home and among this people. 
She has acted well her part; has been wise in 
her endeavors to help and to bless, and has not
only been known for her benevolence and 
charity in her own neighborhood and ward, 
but far and wide; and for many years since her
children were grown up and could take the
care and responsibility of household duties
from off her hands, she has given almost her
whole time to the public.  Wherever and
whenever duty called, or an opportunity offered
itself, she has been valiant in the good cause, 
and her name is known and honored through-
out all Israel. 
	The poem published in this issue is indica-
tive of the intense love and appreciation of her
children, written by a dutiful and affectionate
daughter as a tribute to a beloved mother, and 
filial love is always beautiful. 
	During the last year and a half Sister Horne
has travelled thousands of miles, and has had
many excellent opportunities of conversing 
with strangers upon the principles of the Gospel
which she has always improved by seeking to 
allay prejudice and presenting the simple
truth.  That she may live yet many years in 
full enjoyment of all her faculties and continue 
to labor for Zion, until she has accomplished
the fulfillment of her mission in the earth, is 
the wish of the writer. 			E.  B.  W.,


