[Vol9 | January 1922 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON III Literature - George Careless Compositions]

LESSON ITI. Literature Third Week in March. In our last lesson we devoted considerable space to the compositions of Professor George Careless, and of such importance are his compositions, to Latter-day Saint hymnology, that we feel fully justified in devoting a second lesson to his work.  In a recent interview with Professor Careless, he said that he always enjoyed writing music to Eliza R. Snow's poems, because they are so full of substance. He relates the following touching story of the composition called "Reliance," sung to the words of "Though deepening trials throng your way." Professor Careless at the time was prostrate with grief and illness; for three weeks he had been unable to eat, so that his vitality was greatly reduced. His grief resulted from the loss of his wife, Lavina Triplett Careless; a soprano with a voice of rich beauty, and also he was suffering from heavy financial loss. When his little daughter, then twelve years of age, saw her father going into a decline, she became fearful lest he might not recover, and in the agony of her soul exclaimed, "Father, I am not going to lose you also!' At this cry of pain from the child, he rallied and said, "No, my child; give mea piece of paper." She handed him the paper and he wrote the music "Reliance." We have here a remarkable instance of music being made the medium of solace and comfort and fortitude for a soul bowed down with sorrow. The music known as "Parting," sung to words written by President Charles W. Penrose, was composed for and first sung at the funeral service of Brigham Young. This hymn is not to be found either in the hymn book or the Psalmody. Professor Careless could write music on the spur of the moment. He tells the story of Gen. Charles S. Burton coming to him at the demise of his wife, Julia, and placing some lines within his hand, asked that Professor Careless set them to music that they might be sung at her funeral service. Professor Careless did as Mr. Burton requested, and this piece of music, which Mr. Burton called "Julia" was sung at Mrs. Burton's funeral service. "Rest," written for the funeral service of President George A. Smith, (the father of Clarissa S. Williams, now the honored president of the Relief Society) was set to Eliza R. Snow's words "Hark, from afar a funeral knell." Professor Careless tells us that it was the custom, at the time he was director of the Tabernacle Choir, to have choir practice Friday evenings, "One Sunday afternoon during the services Ebenezer Beesley asked me what we should sing the following Friday night at choir practice." Professor Careless paused for a moment, then said, "Wait, and I will show you." He recalls the incident as if it were yesterday. Prest. Wilford Woodruff was addressing the audience. Brother Careless does not tell us whether anything Elder Woodruff was  saying influenced what he was doing, but what he does tell 'us is that he wrote the music in those moments, that the Saints have sung for many years to the words of, "Arise, my soul arise." Professor Careless says there were very few Sacrament hymns, so that he frequently wrote music to words suitable for sacrament hymns, in an attempt to supply this want. On the following Friday the choir practiced this new music, and the next Sunday sang it, very much to the delight of President Brigham Young, who was very fond of music. On another occasion, Ebenezer Beesley, who succeeded Professor Careless as choir leader, asked that Brother Careless compose some music for "Another day has fled," as Brother Beesley regarded these words as especially choice. In accord with Brother Beesley's request, Professor Careless wrote the music and called it "Meditation." The hymn is very greatly liked by many people. In telling the story of "Meditation" Professor Careless remarked "Ebenezer Beesley was a student of mine, and I was very proud of his talent." The thing that stands out prominently in all of Professor Careless' recitals, in relation to his compositions, is that they were done, as it were, on the instant, and yet they endure. We have all lived to realize how rare men of Professor Careless' genius are; the Latter-day Saints assuredly owe this greatly gifted man a debt which we have not yet fathomed; still of this one thing we are certain, that wherever song is sacred among the Latter-day-Saints, wherever the songs of Zion are used as a medium of praise to the Almighty, the name of George Careless will be held in gratitude and sacred remembrance. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS. 1. Have the words of "Reliance" read, then sung to the Careless music. Do you think the words and music are in keeping with the story of its composition? 2. Who was Professor George Careless' successor, as leader of the Tabernacle Choir? 3. List the sacrament hymns in the L. D. S. Hymn book to which Professor Careless has set music. (See Psalmody, Edition I, or II.) 4. List the hymns in the L D. S. Hymn book, written by Eliza R. Snow, to which Professor Careless has set music. (See Psalmody, Edition I, or IT.), 5. Read very carefully the words of "Another day has fled;" then listen to the music played on the organ. Do you think Professor Careless has caught the spirit of the words in his music? 6. Do you think "Meditation" a good name for this composition? 7. Have some one prepare a brief sketch of the life of George Careless. Material may be found in Volume I Church Biographical Encyclopedia,