[Vol9 | January 1922 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON 1 Theology and Testimony - MEMORABLE PRAYERS]

Guide Lessons for January LESSON 1. Theology and Testimony (First Week in March.) MEMORABLE PRAYERS. Memorable prayers may be classified as prayers of complete record, prayers of partial record, and prayers referred to and not recorded, or prayers of reference. In this lesson we shall deal with simple petition, and not with ordinance prayers, and it will be limited to the consideration of prayers of complete record.: The prayer offered by the brother of Jared, about 2000 B. C., recorded in the Book of Mormon, Ether 3:1-4, is a wonderful prayer, and the first one of which we have complete record, and ranks as one of the memorable events in the history of a great people. The reading of it is strongly faith-promoting. Jacob's covenant prayer at Bethel, Genesis 28:18-22?a prayer of record with which our children should be made acquainted, in fact as a memory gem this prayer will be a lifelong inspiration toward the performance of a sacred financial duty. The prayer of Abraham's servant at the well, Genesis 24:42-44, indicates that the Lord was interested in the mating alliance of Israel, and we have no evidence that he has changed in this particular. The prayer of the Prophet Zenos seems to be of sufficiently complete record to have place in this class. This prayer is a most perfect counting of blessings before the Lord. Alma 44:4-11. Its literary merit alone makes it worth reading. The prayer of dedication of the Temple of Solomon comes in this group; it is an inspiring piece of spiritual literature, recorded in I Kings 8:22-57. Solomon's prayer for wisdom, I Kings, Chapter 3:7-9 inclusive. The uttering of this prayer was the wisest thing that Solomon ever did. The Lord's prayer is a most important prayer of complete record. The first word "our" eliminates selfishness, and the word "Father" is God's family or patriarchal name, not his official name. The word "Father" eliminates distance, and brings us into the closest and most tender relations possible. The phrase,  "which art in heaven" restricts or centers the interest to one being, and by implication acknowledges the existence of other fathers. The expression, "hallowed by thy name" places a halo of spiritual reverence around the name of God, pointing strongly to the glory of the position of fatherhood. "Thy kingdom come" calls for a recognition of the existence of heaven, with God as the "Father King." "Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven" is representative of a desire to do willingly here and now, and have everybody do willingly what God would have done, because that will bring heaven or make a heaven of this earth. "Give us this day our daily bread." This sentence contains a confession of need, and a recognition that the Lord can supply ? that need. Not so much the needs of our bodies but the needs of our spirits. To the properly taught it is a petition for what the Lord sees is best for us. "Forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us." This complex sentence is a request with a selfimposed condition, amounting to a declaration of willingness to remain unforgiven just to the extent that we will not forgive. "Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil." The second part of this sentence indicates the truth of what the Apostle James says concerning temptation, James 1:13. The call for deliverance is a recognition of the fact that we expect to be environed by evil which would overcome us if the Lord left us there. "Thine be the Kingdom, and the power, and glory forever and ever" is a concentration of an expressed desire for God to be our King, always, and with power to govern in his own way with honor and love, because it all belongs to him. The word "Amen," meaning "so be it," is a reaffirmation of all we have said. The prayer of the Savior before going to Gethsemane, John 17, is perhaps the greatest prayer of record ever uttered. It should be read in meeting. This thrice repeated prayer at Gethsemane is a perfect exemplification of the subordination of desire to will. Matt. 26:39-42. The petition on the cross, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do," Luke 23-34, contains so much of the divine and so little of the human, that comments are all out of place, other than to say that it was character ideality realized. Christ's final prayer on the cross may be found in Luke 23:46. Christ's prayer on this continent, after his resurrection, Book of Mormon III Nephi, 19:19-23. The prayer of the prophet in Liberty jail and its answer Doc. & Cov. 121:1-23. This prayer is one of the most perfect  illustrations of the difference between anger and righteous indignation, to be found in sacred literature. The prayers offered at the dedication of temples, the first one of this dispensation being recorded in Section 109, Doctrine & Covenants. There is much material for the student of "Mormon" sociology. It is one of the great landmarks in the progressive history of the Latter-day Saints. QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS.. 1. In the light of James 1:13, would it be unorthodox to substitute "leave us not in temptation,' for "lead us not into temptation?" 2. In the light of Doctrine and Covenants, 36:41, would it be theologically proper to open or close the Lord's prayer in the "name of Jesus Christ?" Book of Mormon, III Nephi, 18:19. 3. Why was Solomon's prayer for wisdom the wisest thing he ever did? 4, Show that the brother of Jared literally prayed for light. 5. What is the big lesson to be learned from the prayer of the Prophet Joseph in Liberty jail? 6. Why will historians and sociologists make a special study of our temple dedicatory prayer? 7. Of what special value to you is the prayer recorded in the Book of Mormon, II Nephi, 4:16-35? 8. What doctrine concerning church elections is taught in the prayer recorded in Acts 1:24?