[Vol9 | January 1922 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Responsibility of Parents in Teaching the Gospel to their Ch]

Responsibility of Parents in Teaching the Gospel to their Children By Lucy Wright Snow, Detroit, Michigan "A man is saved no faster than he gains knowledge, for if he does not get knowledge, he will be brought into captivity by some evil power in the other world, as evil spirits will have more knowledge, and consequently more power, than many men who are on the earth." (History of the Church, Vol. 4, p. 588.) Knowledge is power. The Prophet Joseph Smith tells us that when we have power to put all enemies under our feet in this world, death being the last, and a knowledge to triumph over all evil spirits in the world to come, then we are saved. In this age of ultra-sophistication of children, the duties of parents and teachers have multiplied, and it has become necessary to teach gospel truths and principles at a very early age. An earlier knowledge of the gospel as a protection is more necessary for the child of today than was necessary for the child of a few decades ago, previous to the introduction of the "movie," which has been such a factor in educating the child in crime as well as virtue; the automobile, the aeroplane, the wireless and other modern inventions conducive to education and advancement. Many of the new inventions have ushered in new evils, such as the poisonous gasses of war, and implements used for destruction of human life, until the very atmosphere of today is charged with information and influences averse to truth, thereby creating a crying need of efficiency and increased effort by parents and teachers to lend the necessary wise guidance and inspiration to anticipate and meet the real needs of the much tempted youth of the age. The wise parent might well ask the question, ""Am I measuring up to the requirements of my appointment as chaperone of these choice spirits that have been given into my care?" or, "How shall I make myself equal to this task?" Latter-day Saints have the commandments and methods revealed to them whereby they may know how to keep themselves unspotted from the world, and receive protection from the evils therein, if they will only obey the admonitions given them through the prophets. Modern revelation has brought to the Latter-day Saints the best educational facilities to be found. The principles of organization, as laid down by our modern prophet, Joseph Smith, have  laid the foundation for a world peace through education and cooperation. How often might be traced doubt or lack of faith among the youth of Zion to their parents who have failed to inspire them with the beautiful and wonderful stories of the gospel, or who have themselves failed to give ear to the commandments! We find in Doc. And Cov. Sec. 69, a commandment given, bearing on responsibilities of parents, verse 25: "And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion, or in any of her stakes, which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in Christ the Son of the living God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents." All principles of the gospel can be understood by the child if presented in a simple manner. The child should be taught in early life the value of keeping records of the important events that transpire in his life, such as birthday, first blessing, when and by whom given, date of baptism, etc. Stories of father's and mother's experiences are invaluable to the child and golden opportunities are offered for the child's guidance by their frequent repetition. A child loves to hear many, many times, father's experiences as a missionary, or other family history into which may be woven any of the principles one may wish to present. What child does not love to listen to mother's and father's love story, into which can be introduced the glorious principle of family organization for eternity? Teach the meaning of the Mosaic law—the law of justice, and compare with the higher law—that of love. A child loves to learn to sing the gospel, therefore explain the songs and hymns, and the conditions under which many of them were written. All of these subjects and many more, the child is perfectly capable of understanding, especially when well told and illustrated by stories from the scriptures. It is not unsual for missionaries to answer a call to preach the gospel when they have little knowledge of the plan of salvation which they are sent to teach, and while their obedience to the call and a humble spirit will bring the blessings of the Father to them in abundance, (for a humble spirit stands high with the Lord) yet often, because of their having failed to learn the principles of the gospel in their early youth they are handicapped and retarded in their development and have failed to gain a strong testimony  or great faith, and they are almost overcome by timidity and selfconsciousness in arising to address a congregation. It is then that they realize to the full extent that they are just awakening to the glorious truths that should have been incorporated into their very beings in early life. It is at this point that many missionaries give vent to the regretful expression, "Oh, why didn't my good father and mother teach me these 'aes in my childhood?" At a recent visit to Kirtland it was my privilege to camp with my family over night on the grounds of the Kirtland temple, and as I lay pondering far into the night over the glorious manifestations given to the Prophet Joseph and. O'hers in that edifice, my heart was filled to overflowing with rejoicing and gratitude to God that I had gained the knowledge of these things and that I had received in my early youth a testimony of the gospel, and I wondered what proportion of the children of Zion know that the Lord and his Son, Jesus Christ, visited in person this temple on April 3, 1836, and made themselves known to Joseph and Oliver Cowdery, Doc. And Cov. Sec. 110:2: "We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit before us, and uner his feet was a paved work of pure gold in color like amber." "After this vision closed Moses appeared before us and committed unto us the keys of the gathering of Israel, and after this, Elias, and then the glorious vision of Elijah the Prophet with his important message saying that he was sent to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the children to the fathers." At the first ray of dawn I arose and followed in the direction of a weak, mournful cry which I had heard for some time and found a little mourning dove deserted and crying for food, and again the question arose in my mind, "Have any of our children been deserted and left crying for the bread of life?" COMBINATION DISH. Florence Gates. Medium size flank steak (with plenty of suet.) One medium size cabbage. One cup rice. One cup raisins. Cut up steak and fry until brown, then let simmer in deep fat until tender. Cut a cabbage in quarters and put over steak, then add one cup uncooked rice, then one cup raisins, salt and let cook slowly until rice is thoroughly steamed. (Cook in large flat kettle.)