[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | July | Issue: 3 | Title: POLITICAL SCIENCE STUDY. | Author: Unknown]

POLITICAL SCIENCE STUDY.

	THE Department of Study in Political
Science has prepared the plan of work so
much talked of heretofore and will fill orders
for the local associations or clubs who wish
to take up the study.
	AIM OF THE DEPARTMENT.
‘‘The object of this department is to pro-
vide a systematic Course of self-instruction
in the principles and facts which underlie
the great Political Questions of our day *  *
A knowledge of history has long been es-
teemed a necessary part of education but a
calm, serious study of politics, the science
which includes the events and conditions
surrounding our every day life is far more
rare.”
	This and a great deal more the Prospectus
sets forth, aud it is with the idea of educa-
ting the women of the country in Political
Science that this plan of work has been pre-
pared.
	DUES.
	Study classes that are formed will be ex-
pected to pay the same State and National
dues as regular suffrage associations, that
is the amount must be enough to retain in
the State Treasury and ten cents to the Na-
tional treasury. This sum is used to
carry on the general work.
	METHODS OF STUDY. 
	The methods should include in the
subjects. General Political News, Con-
gressional News, Legislative News, State
Judicial News, Local Affairs, Social Prob-
lems, The Tariff, Financial News, Labor
News, Foreign News.
	The following topics are suggested for
public meetings. The Duty of the Citizen,
Ideal Municipal Government, The Town
meeting, Initiative and Referendum, Pro-
portional Representation, Universal Suffrage,
Woman Suffrage, how can Patriotism be
taught in the Public Schools.
	‘‘This course of study is prepared as nearly
as possible to meet the demands of all
classes of persons, busy housewives and
women who can only command scattered
moments for reading, women too who have
leisure, college graduates and those whose
ambition is broader, it has been planned to
meet all these differing conditions as nearly
as possible."
	The design of the N.A.W.S.A. is to
make this course of study entirely non-
partisan and all text books will be selected
with reference to maintaining such impar-
tiality.


As President of the Utah W. S. A., we
recommend this course of study to the or-
ganizations in all the various localities, and
believe it will be the most educational in
political matters of any method which has
ever yet been adopted.


[Column 1]
