		UINTAH STAKE.
	The Uinta stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held in the Uintah stake taber-
nacle July 28, 1912, commencing at 10 a. m.
President Nancy A. Colton presiding.
Those of the Priesthood present were Stake
President Don B. Colton and Counselors
Earnest Eaton and David Bennion, Patri-
arch Nelson Merkley, High Councilor Jas.
M. Shaffer, Stake Clerk Geo. A. Davis and
several others; Sisters Rebecca N. Nibley
and Elizabeth S. Wilcox of the General
Board, all members of stake board. After
opening exercises President Nancy A. Col-
ton welcomed the brethren and sisters; she
also reported the stake Relief Society. Mrs.
Mary H. Stringham gave a report of the
general Relief Society work. Solo by Elder
Ashley Bartlett accompanied by Miss Jennie
Beers. Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox from Salt
Lake City felt well in meeting with the
Relief Society sisters; related many circum-
stances where people had been benefited by
prayer; gave advice on mothers’ work, es-
pecially sanitation; spoke of the difficulties
of settling new countries and of what the
people of this valley have had to pass
through; referred to the great work the
Relief Society sisters are doing to help


build Church schools and academies; urged
all to do their duty. Mrs. Aretta Sainsberry
gave a lecture on sanitation, explained how
malaria was carried by the mosquito, also
how flies carried diseases from different
places, told how babies should be protected
from flies, cautioned nurses to be very care-
ful about spreading disease, also children
exchanging books, paper and pencils, also
spoke of the public drinking cup. Mrs. Re-
becca N. Nibley was pleased to meet the
brethren and sisters; spoke of her travels
into this valley; gave Sister Emmeline B.
Wells’ best wishes and respects to the sis-
ters; spoke of storing grain, said there
should be a stake granary; spoke of temple
clothing. The mission had been given Gen-
eral Board to keep temple clothing, to sell,
hire or loan when called upon. We also have
been called on to furnish linen for the Lat-
ter-day Saints hospital; spoke of the sisters
supporting the EXPONENT; was pleased to
see so many young sisters at the meeting;
urged the teachers to do their duty; urged
the sisters to be kind to their husbands and
help them; you can be kind in the home;
spoke of mothers taking care of their boys
as well as girls, be patient with them, teach
them to pay their tithes and offerings. Sing-
ing, “Our Mountain Home So Dear.” Ben-
ediction by Elder Geo. E. Wilkins.
	Afternoon Session—Opened by the con-
gregation singing “For the Strength of the
Hills.” Prayer by Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett.
Singing “If You Could Hie to Kolob.”
Roll call showed 7 stake officers, 18 ward
officers, 88 members present. General and
local officers were then sustained. Song by
Rathera Young and Mina Pack. Mrs. Eliz-
abeth S. Wilcox was pleased with the re-
ports she had heard since she had been here;
urged the sisters to come to Relief Society
meetings, especially the young mothers;
spoke of the good the sisters do in time of
sickness; compared the dress in the early
days of the Church and the dress of today;
spoke of the foolish fashions; also of prayer
and the temptations that are thrown in our
way. Recitation by Miss Zora Colton. Mrs.
Rebecca N. Nibley was pleased to meet the
brethren and sisters again; spoke of faith,
by faith there have been many things done;
she related a circumstance that happened
while she was in Rotterdam where a little
boy received his sight through faith; she
also spoke of the power of prayer; referred
to some of the mobbings in Missouri (in the
early days of the Church); said cling to our
children be patient with them. President
Don B. Colton said his soul had been
touched as no doubt many of you have
been; spoke of some of the statistics in the
Church, also the faith we should try and
instill into our children; spoke of the time
when the Prophet Joseph Smith was in-
spired to organize the Relief Society, and of
mothers taking care of their daughters,
show them the dangers they are apt to en-
counter. Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett thanked
(in behalf of stake board) all that had
helped to make this conference a success.
Mrs. Nancy A. Colton made a few closing
remarks, after which conference adjourned
for three months.
		PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Secretary.


