RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The semi-annual conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Tabernacle, Thurs-
day, Oct. 3, 1912, with President Emmeline
B. Wells presiding.
	The singing during the conference was
furnished by the Relief Society choir of
Granite stake.
MORNING SESSION.
	Hymn, “Hail to the brightness of Zion’s
glad morning;” prayer by Mrs. Julia P. M.
Farnsworth; singing, “Scatter Sunshine.”
Loving and congratulatory address of wel-
come by President Emmeline B. Wells; elo-
quent and interesting response by Mrs.
Mary J. R. West; duet, “Truth Reflects
Upon the Senses,” Mrs. Green and Mrs.
Curtis.
	Reports of the Relief Society of the fol-
lowing stakes were given as follows: Ogden
stake, by Mrs. Sarah M. Taylor; Sevier
stake, by Mrs. Christina Sorensen; Deseret
stake, by Mrs. Mary M. Lyman.
	Counselor Julina L. Smith spoke in ap-
preciation of the work done by the Relief
Society. When the Prophet Joseph Smith
organized the Relief Society, she said, he
could see further than we can see today.
Zion is growing and the Relief Society is
prospering, and the work will continue to
grow, Mrs. Smith urged the young girls to
dress modestly, as becoming to Latter-day
Saints; also spoke of arrangements having
been made for the making and supplying of
suitable clothing for the dead.
	Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox in an address
said in part:
	“It is a great blessing and privilege to be
living today—the day of fulfillment of
prophecy and of the dreams of great inven-
tors and discoverers. The present time is
the most glorious ever upon the earth. With-
out the work of the inspired discoverers and
inventors we could not today be enjoying
the blesings we now have. If they had not
had their great dreams and had they not
been inspired to work them out, think of the
advantages we should have been deprived
of today. Columbus was inspired to make
the sacrifices he did in discovering the
western country—the revolutionary fathers
and the soldiers suffered to make possible
the liberty of this beautiful land. We reap
the benefits and sacrifices of all of this.”
	Mrs. Wilcox told of the attention now be-
ing given to the subjects of health and of
the work being done by the state board of
health. She recalled that a prominent man
once said that he believed the time would
come when a normal child, born of normal
parents, would consider it a reproach to be
in ill health, and it seems that efforts are
now being made to bring about the fulfill-
ment of that condition. The Bible, she
said, “tells us that greater things hath no


