[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		LIBERTY STAKE.
	Semi-annual conference of Liberty stake
Relief Society convened in Ninth ward
meeting house July 26 at 10 a. m. and 2
p. m., President Anna S. Musser presiding.
At the morning session we had with us
General President Emmeline B. Wells,
Sarah J. Cannon of the General Board, and
C. W. Symons of Liberty stake High Coun-
cil. After opening exercises and address of
welcome by President Musser, the names
of the General Board, also of the stake
board, were unanimously sustained. The
statistical and financial report for 1911 was
read and accepted. After a solo by Sister
Eva James, the First, Second, Third, Eighth
and Ninth wards were favorably reported,
showing them to be in the line of their duty.
Leah Rigby and Dorothy Weiler favored
us with a duet. Sister Sarah J. Cannon
urged all to subscribe for the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT; said the suggestions in the EX-
PONENT would be of great benefit to the
societies, encouraged all to be humble and
prayerful and do our best at all times.
General President Emmeline B. Wells re-
lated incidents encountered in her numerous
travels and spoke of reports received from
foreign branches; said she had received
more benefit from Relief Society work than
from any other source. Elder C. W. Sy-
mons spoke for a few moments on the ob-
servance of the Sabbath and visiting the
sick and aged. After closing exercises, ad-
journed until 2 o’clock. Lunch was served
to all present during the noon recess.
	Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock with
President Emmeline B. Wells, Sarah J.
Cannon and Julia P. M. Farnsworth of the
General Board, Elders C. W. Symons and
T. H. Wooley of Liberty stake High Coun-
cil and all of stake board on the stand.
After opening exercises and address of wel-
come by Counselor Zurviah G. Eardley, Sis-
ter Julia P. M. Farnsworth delivered a lec-
ture on “Home, Its Necessities and Envi-
ronments,” which was timely and listened to
with interest. A solo entitled. “Trusting,”
was rendered by Sister Eva James. Presi-
dent Emmeline B. Wells said the seeds of
love, wisdom and kindness were very
marked in the Relief Society; testified of the
Prophet Joseph and his divine mission;
realized and could see the development and
the good which would be accomplished by
this organization; encouraged us in doing
good and keeping the commandments of
God, and gave us many other instructions.
Sister Maud Kenner rendered a solo. Sister
Sarah J. Cannon felt that this is a time of
progression, and we want to go on to per-
fection, especially in the work that we were
sent here to do; spoke of taking care of
wheat and storing for times of emergency;
exhorted all to remain faithful to the end.
President Musser made a few closing re-
marks, thanking all who had helped to make
our conference a success. After the solo,
“God Be with Us Till We Meet Again,” by
Sister Eva James, and benediction by Sister
Sarah Swift, adjourned for six months.
