THE GENERAL CONFERENCE. 
	Perhaps in the history of the Church there 
has never been a more interesting confer-
ence than the one held this month, October,
1912.
	All the general quorums of the Priest-
hood full and splendidly represented. There 
were no vacancies to fill and the spirit of the 
conference was indeed inspiring and uplift-
ing. President Joseph F. Smith presided
at all the sessions and the people certainly 
felt and realized his power and authority.


The atendance was very large indeed. In
fact the Tabernacle which at one time
seemed too large for anything is now not
nearly large enough to hold the expectant,
eager people who throng to hear the counsel
and advice of their great leaders. President
Smith’s admonitions to the women who hold
office and preside over the different auxil-
iary organizations, namely, the Relief So-
ciety, the Y. L. M. I. A., and the Primary
should be emphasized through these col-
umns, as they have already been at the dif-
ferent officers’ meetings in the form of reso-
lutions.
	The following is, in part, what he said,
and we urge all the sisters to take heed and
not only listen to the voice of counsel but at-
tend to these things in their own lives and
in their teaching to others. President Smith’s
remarks:
	President Joseph F. Smith closed the con-
ference. He asked that all set their faces
like flint against the spirit of apostacy, dark-
ness, violation of the Sabbath, and irrever-
ence for the other important doctrines of
the Church, making an earnest appeal to all,
to hold sacred every human and divine
right.
	Against immoral dressing among the
young women of the Church President
Smith made the strongest plea. He request-
ed that ward bishops, officers of the Relief
Society, of the Y. L. M. I. A., and of the
Primary association use every means of per-
suasion to prevent it, and if members of the
different organizations insisted, and would
not discontinue to dress in a way that ex-
poses portions of the body to the gaze, he
said, then they should be disqualified as
members, and associates, and be deprived of
their places in the Church. Unless the
women and the girls in the Church can
clothe themselves decently, President Smith
declared, they should not be tolerated as a
part of the Church.
	Card playing President Smith also brand-
ed as one of the intolerable things among
the members of the Church and enjoined
all officials and members to exert their in-
fluence against that practice.
	The conference was in every respect most
successful and the people must surely feel
satisfied with the wisdom and counsel there
manifested. These great congregations of
the Saints, listenig to the eloquence of the
Priesthood and the wonderful music of the
large choir and great organ produce such
an exultant feeling of joy and thankfulness
in the heart for the knowledge and blessing
of the Gospel of Christ as to buoy one up
for life’s battles with renewed strength and
fortitude.


