		TO GRANDMA.
This world is such a grand old place;
	I love this life: with all its pain;
To me it is a Paradise,
	For those who truly love, live not in vain.

So many sons and daughters of thy race
	Are thanksful for their goodly parentage;
Your name they speak with pride and ten-
		derness,
	And praise you for their goodly heritage.

We bow our heads in reverence,
	Tears flood our eyes—we bend a knee,
Our souls breathe forth a grateful prayer,
	For thee we hold in sweetest memory.

[Column 2]
With him to whom you pledged your life
	In the dearest joy of expectant youth,
Left home and friends and kindred ties
	In answer to the call of truth.

Thou noble soul—that years have crowned
	With snowy locks and furrowed brow,
Whose heart is ever as young and warm
As your tender smile is pleasing now.

Thine eyes, through which the spirit gleams,
	Have ever looked to heaven for aid
To find the straight and narrow path,
	Asisgned before this world was made!

Those lips that never once complained
	Because “thy cross” was hard to bear,
Have taught so many other lips
	To say “the Grace,” and offer prayer.

The whispering of the “still small voice”
	That to thine ears so often come,
Has been the music of thy life
	In a melody-like, “Home, sweet Home!”

Tho’ Babies claimed your tender care,
	You brought them from your native land;
You braved the mighty billows’ depths
	And placed all care in God’s own hand.

You spanned the country’s desert plains,
	Step by step, with other braves;
Our country was thus measured then,
	The distance marked by groans and graves!

You climbed the mountains with the rest,
	“A Pioneer” in very deed!
And lived those terrifying scenes
	That no one cares to see or read!

But, grandma, vou nobly lived your part,
	Your children have proved to be "Gifts from
		God!”
And now your children’s children’s children
	Are following in the steps you trod!

A “Mother”—the holiest word we know—
	A “Latter-day Saint” she is known;
A ‘Pioneer,” too’ and a truer or better
	Or a braver one you will never see!

 Christ said: “My sheep shall know my voice;”
	You knew and to the flock you came.
And now your children are in the world
	Teaching the Truth in the Savior’s name!

They are thankful to have the chance to go,
	To deliver the gospel and help repay,
The Elder who left his home and all
	To show you the grand eternal way!

We love you, grandma, dear—we do!
	We want you to live a hundred years!
We need you to teach us how to be true,
	How to smile away sorrow and bitter tears.

And when we have passed from this sweet,
		short life,
	To that other home, in the “land of the
		Blest,”
We want you to welcome us—every one—
	And say: “Bless you dear, you have done
		your best!”'


