		OGDEN STAKE. 
	The annual conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Ogden stake was held July 19,
1912, in the Relief Society hall, at Ogden,
Utah. Two sessions were held, beginning
at 10:30 a. m. and at 2 p. m., the noon re-
cess being spent in partaking of a luncheon,
prepared by the sisters of the eighth ward,
and in hand-shaking and social intercourse.
	On the stand were Sisters Phoebe Y.
Beattie and Carrie S. Thomas of the Gen-
eral Relief Society Board, Patriarch David
McKay, assistant stake chorister Arthur G.
Berrett, Elder Wm. Pickett, the stake presi-
dency of the Relief Society and the entire
stake board and a goodly number of local
officers, also Sister Pearl Jones of the stake
presidency of the Y. L. M. I. A. President

[Column 2]
Sarah W. Taylor of the stake presidency of
the Relief Society presided and conducted
the exercises. After the usual opening ex-
ercises reports of the work being accom-
plished in the local associations were given.
Nine associations were thus reported. Sister
Beattie expressed her pleasure in the re-
ports as given and especially with the inter-
est being awakened in regard to attend-
ance at sacrament meetings; this is surely
commendable and must result in good, for
it is in these meetings that we receive spir-
itual strength; spoke on temple and genea-
logical work, the necessity of and blessings
attendant on the same; referred to the lives
and work of Susan B. Anthony and Clara
Barton; also touched upon parliamentary
law and our need of observing the same.
Sister Carrie S. Thomas felt it a joy to be
present; the thought development on the
song had found a response in her heart and
she felt that it would result in a better un-
derstanding of our songs, and that we
would sing with the heart as well as the
voice; referred to testimony bearing as be-
ing faith promoting and urged the young to
attend the Relief Society meetings and
learn from the mothers and grandmothers.
Elder Arthur Berrett said it was his first
visit to the Relief Society and would be
counted as one of his most pleasant as well
as profitable days and he felt to say, “God
bless the Relief Society, and sanctify all
that has been said this day to our use.”
Sister Pearl Jones of the Y. L. M. I. A.
always felt stronger and more capable of
performing her work by being associated
with the Relief Society and she felt it an
honor to be in our conference. All the
teachings given were timely and the spirit
of the conference was such as to inspire to
greater diligence and determination, our
visiting sisters being filled with words of
counsel and cheer. Solos by the brethren
and a recitation by one of our sisters were
features that added to the enjoyment of the
occasion, and these added to the good coun-
sel given made it a day to be remembered.
		NELLIE BECRAFT, Secretary.

