		SNOWFLAKE STAKE. 
	The annual Relief Society conference of
the Snowflake stake of Zion convened at
Taylor Relief Society hall Aug. 30, 1912.
On the stand were First Counselor
Clarissa S. Williams, Romania B. Pen-
rose of the General Board, Alice K.
Smith and Mary E. Connelly of the
General Board of Y. L. M. I. A.,
all members of the stake board and presi-
dents of several of the different wards.
President Nellie M. Smith presided. After
the opening exercises President Nellie M.
Smith made a brief speech of welcome.
Written reports were read from the wards,
also verbal reports were given by three
ward presidents. A sketch of the lessons
as outlined by the stake board was given,
the lessons consisting of three divisions—
Book of Mormon, Literary and Character
department. Sister Williams treated very
beautifully the following topics: The work
of the Relief Society teachers, which call-
ing is, indeed, sacred; storing of food prod-
ucts, admitting non-Latter-day Saints into
the Relief Society, the public health condi-
tions, the preparation of temple clothing.
Sister Penrose, Smith and Connelly all en-
larged upon the above topics. Piano solo
rendered by Miss Dora Palmer.

[Column 3]
	Afternoon Session, 2 p. m.—Opened at
the Taylor ward meeting house. We were
favored with the presence of Apostle Hy-
rum M. Smith and Elder Rulon S. Wells of
the Seven Presidents of Seventies, all the
stake presidency, members of the High
Council and bishops of several wards. After
opening exercises President Nellie M. Smith
gave a general report of the nine Relief
Societies of the stake; thanked all who had
contributed so freely to the Sarah Driggs
monument fund and to the refugees of
Mexico. An excellent paper on “Why
Parents Should Guard the Play of Their
Children” was read by Sister Laura Baird.
Song, The Hall Sisters. Sister Romania
B. Penrose talked on the rearing of chil-
dren and Relief Society work. Sister Clar-
issa S. Williams spoke on the following sub-
jects: good reading, respecting the rights
of others and the many duties of Relief So-
ciety members. Apostle Hyrum M. Smith
impressed the need of mothers belonging to
the Relief Society; talked at length on
health conditions. Brother Rulon S. Wells
also treated the following subjects: health
and sanitary conditions, the great work of
the Prophet Joseph Smith in organizing the
Relief Society, the broad field of labor for
woman and the influence for good she has.
President Samuel F. Smith congratulated
the sisters on their work and thanked them
for the help they had given in the stake.
	Evening Session—The ladies of the Re-
lief Society, Y. L. M. I. A., and Primary
met in the Relief Society hall Saturday
evening, Aug. 31, 1912, with a large attend-
ance of officers and visitors. All were wel-
comed by President Nellie M. Smith. Sis-
ter Clarissa S. Williams gave some very
good advice on different topics, mentioning
the great qualities of President Emmeline
B. Wells. Sisters Alice K. Smith and Mary
E. Connelly talked to the girls present, also
encouraged the mothers. Sister Romania
B. Penrose gave a very excellent lecture on
health. A good spirit was enjoyed through-
out the conference and the teachings will
be of profit to us.
