[Column 1]
ceremonies. Sister Smith, in her beautiful
white home-made silk dress, very graciously
received the guests.
	On February 29, 1912, the eighty-fourth
birthday anniversary of President Emmeline
B. Wells was fittingly celebrated by the
General Board. One of the chief features
of the occasion was the conferring of the
honorary degree of Doctor of Literature by
the Brigham Young University of Provo
through its president, Joseph F. Smith, upon
President Wells, who received this very un-
usual honor in the sweet and modest man-
ner so characteristic of her. Many glowing
tributes were paid to “Aunt Em,” and the
occasion was one to be long remembered.
	It is with feelings of sorrow and rever-
ence that we record the death of our late
beloved president, Sister Bathsheba W. 
Smith, which occurred Tuesday morning,
September 20, 1910. As President Wells
says in a tribute, “Her life was full to the
brim of usefulness in the Master’s service.
Everywhere she went she scattered bless-
ings, and her life was one of peace.” Her
unceasing efforts in the cause of righteous-
ness, her gentleness and unselfishness
should be an inspiration and example to
us all.
	On March 12, 1909, Sister Annie Taylor
Hyde, First Counselor to Sister Smith,
pased peacefully away. She had held posi-
tions of trust and responsibility in our or-
ganization, which she always filled with
honor. She had journeyed far and wide in
the interest of the Relief Society.
	Sister Rebecca E. Mantle Little, another
member of the General Board, passed to the
beyond May 29, 1909. While Sister Little
had been a member but a short time, by her 
excellent work she had made her influence
felt.
	March 3, 1912, Sister Emma S. Wood-
ruff passed away. She was wife of the late
President Wilford Woodruff, and had been
a valiant member of the Board from the
beginning.
	Several stake officers, who have done ex-
cellent, faithful work, have also passed
away, but they still live in the hearts of their
co-workers.
	At the October conference, 1910, Sister
Emmeline B. Wells was sustained as Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints through-
out the world, with Sister Clarissa S. Wil-
liams as First Counselor and Sister Julina
L. Smith, Second Counselor.
	The storing of wheat has been a cause of
anxiety to almost every stake. On account
of the difficulties encountered, the First
Presidency and the Presiding Bishopric rec-
ommended that the grain owned by the
Relief Society be stored in elevators, built
for the care and storing of wheat, and which
were owned and operated by responsible
parties. In some stakes arrangements have
been made by which money is paid to the
Presiding Bishopric for wheat, and they de-
posit that amount of wheat at the elevator,
based on the current market price, which
method has been found beter than deposit-
ing wheat in local grist mills and far more
satisfactory than that of each Relief Society
building a separate granary. Letters of in-
structions in regard to the matter were sent
to each stake.
	During the past five years calls have been
made by the Presiding Bishopric for large
supplies of linen and material for the Dr.
Groves’ L. D. S. Hospital. The amount of

[Column 2]
money required for the purchase of these
supplies was apportioned, and the stakes re-
sponded liberally. The articles were cut out
and made by members of the Society freely
as a labor of love.
	In the beginning of the year 1912, the
First Presidency requested President Wells
to take up the matter of preparing Temple
clothing, with the idea that the General
Board prepare and keep on hand suitable
clothing for those going into the Temple,
and also for burial purposes. President
Wells appointed Counselor Julina L. Smith
chairman, she to appoint her own commit-
tee; and as a result there is on hand a supply
of beautiful clothing, which can be rented or
purchased at a reasonable price by those
presenting letters of recommendation from
their bishop and the President of the Relief
Society.
	Moral conditions in the larger cities have
rendered it necessary for the Board to take
steps along the line of protecting our young
people from existing evils. A committee
appointed by the President has been work-
ing, in connection with a committee from
other organizations, along these lines.
	The Relief Society is always ready and
willing to respond to calls for the alleviation
of suffering and distress. A beautiful ex-
ample of this was the general and cheerful
response made to the call for assistance for
the Chinese and the Mississipi flood suffer-
ers. Probably over one-half of the amount
that was raised by the whole state of Utah
was contributed by the Relief Society.
	The subject of sanitation and preventive
measures in sickness is causing agitation in 
the world generally, and efforts are being
made to interest the members of the Relief
Society in this important subject. Circulars
containing valubale information have been
sent out by the Board of Health, through 
the General Board, to the various stakes,
with the hope that it will be a great assist-
ance in the prevention of disease.
	One of the important events that have
happened during the past year is the plac-
ing of an article, written by President Em-
meline B. Wells, containing a brief history
of the Relief Society, also portraits of the
five presidents of the Relief Society, with a
sketch of the life of each president, in Ap-
pleton’s American Biographical Cyclopedia.
The articles are beautifully written by Presi-
dent Wells, and reflect credit upon the or-
ganization, and will present the work of the
Relief Society in a proper light before the
world.
	The work of our great organization is
constantly progressing. Many stakes have
distinctive features which have been of ben-
efit to them. An example of what can be
done by individual wards in various stakes
of Zion is the effort that has been made in
raising funds for special purposes by the
collection of “Sunday eggs.” Large amounts
have been raised in this manner for build-
ing houses and for various other purposes.
	During the past five years an effort has
been made to interest the Relief Society in
genealogical and Temple work. In some
stakes geenalogical classes have been or-
ganized, and other stakes are anticipating
having these classes introduced; and a much
greater interest is being taken in this and
in Temple work.
	Among the important events is the build-
ing of Relief Society halls, Relief Society
rooms in meeting houses, assisting in the

[Column 3]
building of ward meeting houses and
amusement halls, purchasing sacrament ser-
vices, musical instruments, linen, etc. Many
yards of carpet and thousands of quilts have
been contributed.
	From reports received and from visits
made it is seen that the officers and mem-
bers are working in harmony for the ad-
vancement of the cause of the Relief So-
ciety.
		OLIVE D. CHRISTENSEN,
						Secretary.


