[Column 1]
	WOMEN RECOGNIZED.
	One interesting feature of the political
situation this year is the sudden popularity
of the suffrage cause. While heretofore
men in public life have at least not been
very ardent on this subject, we find this year
that great force is being put forward by all
parties to obtain the suffrage vote. The
women of the National Suffrage Associa-
tion have declared themselves for Colonel
Roosevelt and the Progressive party, but
that does not follow that the women in the
suffrage states are in any way pledged to
any party, on the contrary, the women claim
equal privilege with men and ally them-
selves with the party of their choice. It is
true the platform of the Progressives prom-
ises many of the reforms the women have
long labored to obtain and hold out alluring
offers for the suffrage vote, yet it is also

[Column 2]
equally true that Colonel Roosevelt has not
been until this campaign a very ardent sup-
porter of the suffrage cause, either in his
speeches or writings. His praise of
Jane Addams is unbounded, and so is
ours, and that of all people who under-
stand her splendid work, but in praise of
these reform workers of today let us not
forget nor underrate the work of those
brave pioneer women who by their force of
character, their undaunted faith in their
work and in their cause, threw down the
barriers and made it possible for women to-
day to accomplish great things. Susan B.
Anthony, Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, and others were earnest and ag-
gressive in their fight for equal rights. They
endured contumely and oppression, ridicule
and persecution, but valiantly and fearlessly
they fought their way along and lived at
least long enough to see a steady increase in
their ranks and victory ahead.
	There was always an ardent desire among
the suffrage workers for a constitutional 
amendment giving the suffrage to all the
women at once, but while that has been de-
ferred, the states one by one are falling into
line and who knows but what this present
condition in the political field will bring
about the result the women so long have
tried to obtain.
	In all the suffrage states the different
political parties this year have women can-
didates on their tickets for state and county
offices. In our own state there are eleven
women thus recognized. The Democratic
party have two names for the lower house
of the legislature, Mrs. Alice M. Horne and
Mrs. Isabelle Kenner. The Progressive
party have two lady Presidential electors,
Mrs. W. H. De Wolfe and Mrs. C. E. Coul-
ter, and two representatives, Mrs. W. H.
Wilkensen and Mrs. Lavina Livingston.
	The Republican party have five women
candidates, four for the lower house, Dr.
Jane Skolfield, Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon,
Mrs. Anna H. King and Mrs. Edith E.
Read, while for Presidential elector they
have selected Mrs. Margaret Zane Wichter.
Mrs. Witcher claims the distinction of being
the first woman in the United States to re- 
ceive this honor.
	It is now generally conceded that wom-
an’s influence in the different lines of reform
and philanthropic work has become so pow-
erful that it needs must be recognized. In
all the states the women have had legislative
committees to work with the law-makers
for such laws that would benefit the people,
especially the working girl, the mother and
the child, and now with women not only to
lobby but to help make the laws there is
certainly cause for congratulation and we
hope this is only the bigninnig of the good
work.


