[Column 1]
THE MOTHERS' PARADISE.
	The subject of our thoughts offers oppor-
tunity for many and varied opinions. A
careful study of children only convinces one
most thoroughly that children can not be
brought up, either by books or any one set
of rules. Circumstances of parents, family
traditions, traits, and most of all—child
character itself—shows that in the rearing
of a child, that child itself being the prime
factor, must necessarily be the principal
study. The hope and the faith of the
woman's heart while anticipating mother-
hood, and the delight and pleasure mingled
with good sense and wisdom in the early
care of the little one, the birth, the first
preparations regarding the care, the cloth-
ing and feeding of this precious gift, and
the first few years training of the little child,
is this time not indeed the mother's para-
dise; the development of a little life, God
given for us to teach and train.
	One of the sweetest things in all the
world is the prayer of a little child; no
music sweeter than his little voice, no pic-
ture more beautiful than a baby at his
mother's knee lisping his first little prayer.
Little folks, like grown folks, do not all
feel the same; some are naturally more spir-
itual than others, but all can be taught when
quite young a few simple words of prayer
and made to feel the occasion to be a solemn
moment. Children are very inquisitive and
frequently very skeptical, about sacred mat-
ters, and some times are known to ask ques-
tions about the Lord and heaven which their
parents are puzzled how to answer, not be-
cause they do not themselves know, but be-
cause it is not always easy or wise to ex-
plain to a child matters of that kind, and a
parent should strive to avoid too much ar-
gument about spiritual matters, while
always keeping within the child's heart a
reverence for the Lord and perfect faith
and trust in Him. Children generally are
full of faith, their trust in the Lord is im-
plicit and even so does the child have faith
in and trust his mother. How then, more
than anyone, should she strive never to de-
ceive her child and never to break a prom-
ise. It is far better not to make promises to
a child unless you surely can fulfill them,
for if failing one is likely to lose his confi-
dence and trust. In the development of a
child the mother has always these two
greatest assistants—love and nature—one

[Column 2]
the incentive, the other the guide, and if she
uses them wisely, even though extravagant-
ly, she is sure of success. In the moral de-
velopment of a child the greatest watch and
care is necessary; surely remember the wise
saying, "As the twig is bent the tree is in-
clined," and parents should guard carefully
themselves in their actions and words to-
wards a child. If a little one happens to be
mischievous or inclines to little rebellious
acts, mothers frequently resort to correcting
those faults by threats of or whippings for
punishment and the fear often prompts the
child to a falsehood in order to avoid the
promised punishment. Very small children,
except in rare instances, can not be rea-
soned with, but by some kind reproof can
be taught the difference between good and
evil and the best way to keep a child from
mischief or evil doing, just as with older
people, is to give him somtehing to do. It
is surprising how much a little child can
help his mother and how much it pleases
him. While the mother is necessarily em-
ployed in her household duties she can have
her little folks around her and be singing
nursery songs with them or telling them
little stories or repeating little verses, and
it is wonderful how readily the little folks
learn to repeat the same stories and also
learn the moral of them. The German
mother, when she sees her baby with a
match or sharp instrument, says, "Ah
Gabeln, messer, scherrer, licht, Gibt man
kleinen kinder nicht," which means in Eng-
lish, "forks, knives, scissors, or light, no
one must allow little children to have." If
mothers don't know any beautiful kinder-
garten songs, they ought if possible to learn
them for the children's sake and you would
not believe how much amusement and even
philosophy there is in the rhymes of Mother
Goose. Oh, but the busy mother says we
haven't time. Ah, there you are entirely
wrong. The early lessons of childhood can
easily be given during your morning work.
It lightens the work to have the children
with you. If you are washing the break-
fast dishes, perhaps some of them are dec-
orated with flowers and then a lesson in
color and form can be learned. The names
of the different dishes and the shape and
use may be talked about if they are round
or square, or oval, if they are china, or
glass, silver or tin, and so it is in every
occupation in the home, and who knows
but that perhaps in thus using her thinking
faculties, with her work, the mother learns
something as well. There are mothers with
little tots, too young yet for school, who
take time every morning to take them to a
room alone, and sing with them one or two
little hymns and repeat with them the Lord's
prayer, then pray a morning prayer of her
own. Do you think that mother loses any
moments from her work? No, indeed, she
gains them, for her work is lighter with the
children's co-operation and the kind spirit
that must be in such a home. The molding
of the character of a little child is the great-
est of all work.
A. W. C.


Robert Barr, the Scottish novelist, died
of heart failure October 22. He was as
well known in America as in England, hav-
ing at one time been connected with the
Detroit Free Press. His novels have al-
ways been among the best sellers.


