the pure spring of living faith in her soul,
that she may impart the germ to her off-
spring, and seek to promote its culture and
growth in all her teachings to the infant
mind.

[Column 2]
	Many are the simple lessons of faith in
God, and His dealings with mankind,
learned at the mother’s knee, that have gone
with the man out into the great, busy, active
world and given him a deep and lasting
conviction of the evidences of divinity. In
the most trying hour, when all seemed un-
certain and unreliable, the mother’s careful
teachings of the Savior and His blessed
promises, have come with refreshing light
as from heaven, and imparted courage that
could penetrate beyond the dark clouds and
reveal a ray, at least, of glowing light be-
yond.
	There can scarcely be too much said upon
this important subject. It is a topic for
conversation of which we never need tire,
there is so much to be learned of its appli-
cation to our lives and conditions here upon
the earth The instructions given upon
Faith in the Book of Doctrine and Cove-
nants should be carefully studied by our
young people; and the exercise of faith
should be a part of their spiritual education;
and mothers who may feel they are well ac-
quainted with this subject, would be amply
repaid by re-perusing those interesting
chapters upon Faith alluded to above. It
is true that our sisters have had many and
great, practical illustrations of the princi-
ples of faith in their past experiences in this
Church; and it is very edifying to hear re-
hearsed some of these striking instances
of the sublimity of faith, given to the
Saints when passing through deep trials
and serious afflictions. How much darker
and drearier and more desolate still, would
the wearisome days of travel and pilgrim-
mage have been, through which our people
have passed, if they had not been rich in
that holy faith which lifts the human soul
above the clouds into the clearer atmosphere
of a higher altitude.
	Strength, courage and heroism are some
of the excellent fruits of this beautiful plant
of spiritual origin. It is sometimes urged
that “faith is not tangible,” and those de-
void of this quality often remark “we want
something more tangible than faith!”
Some of the most powerful elements oper-
ating in nature are not tangible, except as
applied to tangible substances, and yet how
wonderful are their forces when thus
brought to bear upon other objects. Just
so with faith; in itself intangible, yet most
potent when applied to truths, to circum-
stances and to the lives of individuals. Faith
cannot be measured. The great manifesta-
tions of the power of faith in healing the
sick are marvels and wonders to the unbe-
lieving, whose minds, lacking this attribute,
cannot comprehend mysteries of the unseen
which can only be understood by the spir-
itual sense.
	I am sure there are many instances of
the power of faith in the healing of the sick,
that have never been told to our children,
that would promote the growth of faith
were they known. I will relate a very re-
markable one to which I was an eye wit-
ness many years ago. A young lady about
eighteen years of age was thrown from a

[Column 3]
carriage and her knee badly injured: her
parents being in good circumstances took
her to several of the best physicians in that
part of the State where it occurred; it was
in Massachusetts, near the Connecticut
river. These doctors tried their skill, but
all failed to cure her and they decided she
must be a cripple for life and compelled to
walk with crutches. The Mormon Elders
came to that vicinity, the parents of the
young lady received and obeyed the Gospel.
They were anxious their daughter should
be baptized, believing firmly she would be
healed. After some time, for she was a
very aristocratic girl and did not like to
give up her position in the world, she gave
her consent to be baptized. It was a very
cold day, the brook was frozen solid, a hole
was cut in the ice, and one after another
went into the water, and by and by, the
lame girl with her crutches came down to
the water’s edge. The Elders baptized her,
she walked out of the water, whole, and
never had occasion to use her crutches after.
The fact of her being healed created quite
a sensation, especially among the doctors
who came from far and near to inquire by
what means it had been done. But none
could gainsay it.
	This is only one of thousands of mani-
festations of the power of healing.
	The children in Zion should seek after
mighty faith, for there are great works to
be accomplished by them. They have been
born in the holy priesthood and are heirs
to all the promises of the new and everlast-
ing covenant, and God is ready and willing
to pour out rich blessings upon them if they
will seek unto Him and keep His holy com-
mandments; and let us all remember, with-
out faith it is impossible to please God.
