[Column 1]
		DESULTORY THOUGHTS.
	The age in which we of today are living
is not only eventful but interesting and pro-
gressive. The discoveries and inventions
that have added so materially to the interest
of all mankind in several directions, useful
as well as uplifting in the various depart-
ments of life itself, and in the occupations
that men and women pursue and the benefits
that accrue to the world at large by means
of all these things, make for a higher
and a more complete existence even if more
complex. Therefore we can with the ut-
most assurance say that this world of ours
and this age, in which the present genera-
tion is taking part is the greatest yet known
on this earth.
	It is the day the prophets of old looked
forward to and prophesied concerning what
would come to pass.
	It is well for those who are taking part in
the labors and in the events now transpiring
that they consider their privileges and live
up to them and act wisely and judiciously in
all that they do and in that which trans-
pires around them.
	We are none of us living for ourselves
alone, not even for our own families or
kindred. We are a part of the great whole,
the great world and the generation of to-
day.
	To the Latter-day Saint men and women
this is the most auspicious time in the his-
tory of mankind. The Priesthood has been
restored after generations of darkness, su-
perstition and bigotry, and a new era of light
and freedom has dawned and with all this
has come greater enlightenment to all the
inhabitants of the earth. The key of knowl-
edge has been turned and, accompanied by
power and blessings from on high, has
spread far and wide and will eventually
cover the whole earth.
	That prophecy is now coming to pass
regarding the last days is apparent in the
fact the Lord said He would bring to pass
“a marvelous work and a wonder.” Cer-
tainly it cannot be gainsaid.
	Not only in all material things but also in
that which may be termed spiritual, is the
work a wonderful one: the building of
many Temples in which men may offici-
ate in the order of the Holy Priest-
hood for the living and for the gener-
ations passed away who had not this great
privilege and without whom families could
not be made perfect in the hereafter. Even

[Column 2]
poets, who are also in a certain sense proph-
etic if not prophets, have been wrought up-
on concerning this wondrous work for the
dead.
	Wordsworth, one of the great poets of
England, as early as 1825, in his Ode on
Imagination, has these remarkable lines:
“Be it not unordained that solemn rights,
Within the circuit of those gothic walls
Shall be performed at pregnant intervals;
Commemoration holy that unites
The living generation with the dead.”
	In view of the greatness of the day in
which we are now living it certainly be-
hooves those who are taking part to appre-
ciate the blessings of the age. It is a
solemn duty to remember the great men
and women who have brought about
the liberty vouchsafed to this nation and
to emulate the best examples of those who
have given by their sublime lives and acts
that priceless freedom which we so enjoy
in this western land and to hold sacred
the privileges of religious liberty for the
land dedicated thereto.
	It is the privilege as well as the duty of
every one to maintain the government of
the country and to build up the waste places
and make them habitable and desirable, so
the nations afar off will come to the house
of the Lord in the tops of the mountains
as has been prophesied.
	Therefore, we repeat that this is the
greatest age of the world and those who
are young will see the brilliant future which
is to surpass in all that is glorious and
desirable all other ages of the world.
	The sacred music that will yet be given
in the holy Temples of the Lord, the an- 
thems and hymns, and the mighty work of
salvation which is to be performed—who is
to do this? Those who are young today and
those who are yet unborn must necessarily
perform this great undertaking—therefore
there should be no waste of energy in that
which is vain and worthless, but careful
preparation in wisdom to educate the mind
and the heart, that therein may be a willing-
ness to use the gifts of the higher nature
to excel in that which will tend to glorify
Zion and extend and make beautiful its bor-
ders; and in the future advancement of the
age all may take part who are willing to
be obedient to the gospel, and there will be
ample room for all to unite in the great
work of making an Eden on earth accord-
ing to the prophecies of old and of the day
in which we live.


