[Column 1]
Bishop John F. Conley of Portage. The
congregation sang “Come, Come, Ye
Saints.” Minutes of last conference read
and approved. President Eliza A. Hall
made opening remarks, bidding all a hearty
welcome to our meeting. Reports were
given by Malad, Holbrook and Pleasant
View wards, all in unity and enjoying the
Relief Society work. A recitation was ren-
dered by Sister Maud Chidester entitled,
“A Mother’s Only Son.” President E. B.
Wells was delighted to be in attendance at
the Malad Relief Society conference; spoke
of the reports against the Latter-day Saints
by those not of our faith; there never was a
greater prophet than Joseph Smith; spoke
on the wheat question and care of the grain
belonging to the Relief Society; obedience,
love, and charity were some of the subjects
spoken on by our gifted sister. A song was
sung by a Lamanite sister from Washakie
association. Sister McClelland of the Gen-
eral Board spoke of the grand work accom-
plished by the Relief sisters; told of her
missionary labors, and of the truth of the
Book of Mormon. After singing and bene-
diction conference adjourned until 2 o’clock
p. m. Lunch was then served to all by the
sisters of Malad.
	At 2 p. m. conference convened in the
tabernacle with President Eliza A. Hall pre-
siding. Prayer by Brother David Thomas.
Singing, “O Happy Home.” Mrs. Katie
Jones of St. John favored us with a solo.
Sister Sarah McClelland of Salt Lake City
was delighted with our lovely homes in
Malad; spoke of our duties as Relief So-
ciety workers, and the many blessings we
enjoy. A song by Sister Amy Randall of
Malad was beautifully rendered. President
William H. Richards was well pleased with
the labors of the Relief Society; spoke of
the noble work of the women of Zion. Or-
gan solo by J. G. Barret of Salt Lake City
was then given. President E. B. Wells had
long wished to visit with the good people of
Malad; was well paid for coming; advised
having a library in the Relief Society;
spoke of her acquaintance with the
prophet Joseph Smith, and of her experi-
ence in Nauvoo at the time of the martyr-
dom of Joseph and Hyrum. We were then
favored with a piano solo from D. E. John-
son of Malad. President Eliza A. Hall
thanked all that had helped to make our
conference such a grand success, and prayed
that all would feel benefited by coming to
conference. After singing and prayer, con-
ference adjourned for three months.
			ELIZA A. HALL, Pres.
