And Angels Shall Attend By. Dorothy Clapp Robinson EP. Twenty years I've driven the loop Star Route and never failed to get the mail through but once. That was on account of Margaret O'Connel. She's that southern convert who come west and bought Jake Quillian's dry farm. Paid him about what the improvements was worth and got stung at that. Outside the fencing there's nothing there but a straw stable and coop, and a shell of a house that stood, weather target, on a high knoll. There was three-four moist hollers where she could raise garden but the wheat land—well, you know what it is. One year you have a crop but most years you don't. The O'Connels was quality, as they say in the south. One look told you that. And they was the tightest-mouthed outfit ever struck these parts. They wasn't stuck-up, mind you. In no time they had made a place for themselves in the Cole Creek ward. Folks liked them, liked them more as time went by but nobody called her just Margaret. We belong to the Center ward. I've been taking mail to the folks in that valley every other day for twenty years. Off days I make the north loop. Mighty little happens I don't hear. I go within a quarter mile of their place so see the O'Connel's winter and summer. Jay, the oldest of the four youngsters, was sixteenseventeen when they moved there. Odd thing, too, about their mailbox. They put one up right off. I brought them a paper ever week, AND ANGELS SHALL ATTEND two magazines a month and twice a year a letter. It was always in the same handwriting and from the same place in Virginia. If they wrote letters Jay must have mailed them when he went to Caribou. Never forget my first sight of her. She was waiting at her mailbox to ask if I'd bring her some groceries. I usually was loaded, coming out so there's nothing about that to" remember. It was HER, and my hat come off in a hurry. She was a little whiffet—with hair as white as snow even then. But when you looked at her you saw nothing but her eyes. Afterward as the team plodded along, me taking mail out of boxes and putting more back, I tried to figure them out. I was mighty near home before something popped into my head. Somewhere I had heard 'Woman Athirst.' Yes, sir. That described them exactly. They had that all-seeing, feverish look of one athirsting for something. But what she was waiting for neither me nor Cole Creek knew for many, a year. As I said, we belong to Center ward but Alice's sister, Jennie Woolf, was second counselor in the Cole Creek Relief Society so I heard from all sides when Emma West resigned and Margaret O'Connel was put in first counselor. Right then Cole Creek come to life. Yes, [ am coming to the story of the mail. "T can't explain," Jennie told us more than once, "the influence Margaret O'Connel has over the women. She takes literally all the Prophet said at that first meeting. About strengthening virtues and raising life to its highest standards. Geography, she said, and numbers have nothing to do with progress. She leads but the women are good followers. In no time our organization was going 163 ahead by leaps and bounds. It's a miracle how many opportunities we can find right here in Cole Creek for improving ourselves." That's the way she worked, and of all the women only Em West resented her. Em was jealous. As for the dry farm, they worked long and hard. Right off they had bought a few head of sheep—and they handled them right. They had some good crops, too, so folks wondered why they didn't get ahead more. There was no new clothes, no fixing that took money. And in all them years she never sent cash for groceries. It was butter or eggs every time. Jay wasn't more than twenty or twenty-one when he started going with Thala Hatcher. Right off folks reckoned they'd get married but as the years went by and they didn't it become just one more thing the O'Connels done different. Then this particular winter Thala begin stepping out with Carl Hansen. Jay only worked a little harder and talked a little less. The winter they'd been there twelve years was a record breaker. I kept twelve horses on the route, working them in relays. Then sometimes it took twenty-four hours to get the mail through. Naturally I wasn't doing much thinking about anybody but I did notice the O'Connels begin haunting the mailbox. Ever trip the mother or the girl would be there huddling in the cold, eyes thirstier than ever, waiting, waiting for something that didn't come. Afterward Jennie told Alice about their January sewing meeting when Emma West came near starting something. They had been discussing things they'd read as usual when Em pipes up with something she'd read. 164 "Tt's the funniest thing," she says, casual like, "about a man with the same name as yours, Mrs. O'Connel. He's been let out of Virginia state prison after being there thirteen years for murder. You wouldn't know him would you, Margaret O'Connel?" "Why should she?" Len Davis demanded. 'Plenty of people have the same name." Now the women, Jennie said, was so busy glaring at Em they didn't notice Margaret O'Connel. But Jennie was standing close by her and she says her face went chalky and her hand shook so she couldn't thread her needle. That and the O'Connels getting a letter out of turn was all that happened that winter except weather. That and one other thing. One Thursday in March Mrs. O'Connel showed up at her mailbox and wanted to ride into Caribou with me. ''What's up?" I says to myself. "There's a look in her eye that's different even for her." Aloud I answered, "You're perfectly welcome to go with me but hadn't you better wait until Saturday? There's some weather on the way." "T must be in Caribou tomorrow mo'ning," she says, "I must be." And she climbed into the sleigh before I could help her. I give her a brick to keep her warm and tucked the quilts around her as best I could. She thanked me and asked about Alice but said little else. There was something about her voice and every once in a while she would draw a long sobbing breath like someone who's feeling so much they can't keep it bottled up. It was getting suspiciously warm. For a couple of days it had thawed and misted. Then that night the thermometer had dropped to twenty below, and everything was froze inRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to glass. Now, unless I missed my guess, it was fixing to snow which wouldn't help matters any. At Aaron Ball's I stopped to change horses and while Aaron and me was hooking on the fresh team Ellen come out with some hot bricks. "For goodness sake, Bill," she says, "as soon as you get where you can, call the Doctor. John West was over awhile ago but couldn't get 'him. I told him I'd call for him but the line is dead." "Going to be some time before I get to a phone," I says. "Dear me—he's expecting me to get the Doctor. I'd go myself but >) "You'll get back in the house," Aaron told her. "You're hardly out of bed yourself." Sure enough. We'd hardly left Aaron's when the blizzard struck us head on. I had a cover over the bobs but what with the wind and all it made mighty poor protection. The horses crept along foot by foot. Margaret O'Connel had been sitting like a statue ever since we left Ball's and when we come to the crossroads where we turn north she spoke. "Let me out, please. I am going back to Emma West. The Doctah may not get there." "T thought you had to be in Caribou tomorrow morning." For a long minute she didn't answer. I could FEEL something going on. "Let me out," and her voice was soft as ever. "You'll never make it. It's a good five miles and getting dark." "Please stop." Now what could you do with a woman like that? I thought of my mail—of my record. Then I made a decision myself. And it was a relief for I'd heard what hard times Em has and with nobody there— AND ANGELS SHALL ATTEND "Alright," I says, "but Iam going too. Catch me turning a woman loose in this." So I turned the team into the teeth of the storm and headed south for John's. It wasn't easy going I can tell you. Several times the horses slipped and fell and why they didn't break their legs I still don't know. We'd have been lost a dozen times if it hadn't been for the fences. Seemed like the wind and snow was racing to see which could do the most damage. Time after time I had to get out and tramp back and forth, back and forth through the fast gathering drifts until the snow was low enough for the horses to waller through. "We'll never make it," I says. "Of course we shall." Dogged if I knew how but I urged my tired team on. The last mile was the worst. We had to go around a shoulder of a big hill on a dugway. With ice for footing and the storm tearing hellbent-for-breakfast around that point it would be crazy to attempt in the daytime. By now I couldn't see the horses. At the foot of the hill I balked. "Tt's plumb suicide to try it. Sheltered here in the sleigh we do have a chance of hanging out until morning." "T would start the team if I were you." And her voice had that softas-thistledown, unbending-as-steel tone it takes on occasional.. "What for?" I shouts for I was dog-tired to say nothing of being cold and hungry. "Just to get buried at the bottom of the hill? We'll never get over that dugway without help." "We have help," I hear above the roar of the storm. ''When we live up to our privileges we always have help." 165 Privileges. And the way she said it. And to me—a seventy. Well, I didn't need more than one reminder. Right then I knew we'd make it. Then Margaret O'Connel begin talking about opportunities and development and how we 'often mistake the guise,' them was her words, of the opportunity. Sometimes I heard her. Sometimes I didn't but I knew what she was saying. We crawled ahead inch by inch. Seems like I lost all sense of time. I lost all sense of everything but the power that urged and suggested and refused to give up. If angels ever attended humans they did us that night. Just as we got to the most dangerous place where we had to make the turn old Baldy starts snorting and backing. For one instant I thought he was going to back us right off into eternity. I got to his head as soon as I could. Then I begin pawing around for whatever had scared him. There with the snow drifted over him was a man. I picked up the poor thing and in the sleigh Margaret O'Connel, feeling about, covered him with the quilts. At John's I drove right up to the kitchen door. Before I could stop John was there. "Thank goodness you've come." Then, 'Oh, it's you, Bill." "Yes, but I brought Margaret O'Connel. Go into Em," I says to her. "We'll look after him." We left the team standing while we carried him in. We laid him on the cot they keep by the kitchen fire. Then John went to look after the team while I started working on the poor frozen creature when Mrs. O'Connel come back into the kitchen. She give the stranger one swift look and there come over her such a change I knew this was what 166 she had been waiting for all these years. "David." Then again, "David." And I think the listening angels must have wept at the sound. She dropped to her knees and her fine lady's hands that was knotted and calloused by years of outdoor work, went over his face feature by feature as a blind man's might. There came a cry from the bedroom and the kneeling woman rose ready to help. So while the storm raged without the three of us worked, worked and prayed. We done all we could for both and just as dawn come sneaking over the now quiet snow little Margaret O'Connel West rewarded us with a good lusty cry. With the old man it was different. The shock had been too great. John and me saw it coming and finally the woman did too. Just before morning he opened his eyes and recognized her. We left them alone and when we come back he was gone. There was no outcry, no weeping, only a straightening of shoulders, a hard breath or two, and the work went on. I left as soon as I could for the mail was still on my mind, but later RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Margaret, herself, told me the stroy. Her husband, David O'Connel, had been convicted on circumstantial evidence. A neighbor they hadn't cared much for, had practically ruined himself financially trying to get the sentence changed. Above a bare existence they had sent ever, cent they made to repay the debt. Just before Christmas the neighbor had been stricken and on his deathbed had confessed to the crime. The old man had reached Caribou a day soon and knowing nothing of the weather had decided to surprise them. He had caught a ride most of the way but had mistaken the hill by John's for the knoll he had been told to look for. "And just think, Bill," she says to me. "Had I not gone to Emma I should have missed that last priceless minute with him." In April when Jay and Thala went down to get married she went along and come home more saintlike than ever. Well, there is the story. Only time I fell down on my job in twenty years. Sure, 'm proud~of it but when it comes to records it takes a woman with the Spirit of Relief Society back of her to excel in all things. HAVE FAITH The darkest night of grief or pain, Though filled with countless fears, Will lighten soon with faith and prayer; He'll wipe away our tears. The darkest night the world has known Has never-dimmed one star; The darkest night a soul can know May leave a lasting scar; But it never dims Eternal Love That bids us look to Him above. —Elsie E. Barrett.