"From the heart it hath come and to the heart it shall penetrate,' Mother Makes a Rag Carpet By Zipporah L. Stewart UTUMN was a glorious seaA son on the farm, when I was a child. I associate with it not only the lovely color and the days of Indian summer haze, but other memories, that have become richer and more filled with sacred meaning as the years go by. Fondest among these, is the memory of my mother's old-fashioned rag bee. In those dear old days when the kitchen and dining room occupied the same space in our farm home, it was customary to make a carpet every other fall. Preparations for this gala rag bee day began a week in advance. First of all a day was chosen that would not interfere with any other activity in the neighborhood. One member of the family was sent with a note inviting all the women who lived nearby. Those who lived farther away were invited at church on Sunday. No one, I'm sure, so far as my mother knew was ever slighted. HE rags were the next thing to consider. Rags that had been collected since the last carpet was made, were brought out and dumped in a pile. On the floor, ready for tearing. There were rags of every color and of every hue. Old outing flannel nightgowns, petticoats, calico aprons, skirts, dressing sacks, threadbare blankets, furniture calico lounge covers, and a variety of faded well worn pants, underwear and stockings. Mother with one of my older sisters prepared them and we younger ones did the tearing. [Each article as it was pulled from the pile brought memories of its past usefulness or occasions associated with it in some way. Two or three evenings spent with the rag pile, and they were ready for the bee. EXT the house must undergo a general clean-up. Especially the parlor and kitchen where the guests would be: The stoves were polished with black lead and the nickle parts scrubbed and _ shined. A brass boiler on the side of our "Home Comfort" range _ was cleansed with salt and vinegar and made to gleam like a mirror. Pots. And pans were scoured. Sunday dishes were taken from the top shelves of the cupboard, washed well and put back. Walls and ceilings were dusted and curtains were shook. The beautiful old brussels carpet on the parlor floor, with its bright red roses and shaded green leaves, was swept and sponged until it looked like new. Everything was in apple pie order and we children were begged to keep it so, at least till the guests arrived. HE real fun began the day bebefore the bee, when mother made the pies and doughnuts. A large crock jar of home rendered lard was carried in from the cellar. The bread pan full of mince meat, made especially for this dinner, was placed on our kitchen table. The pie making began early in the morning. By noon time ten or twelve were baked and cooling on the table. What beautiful pies they were. I say beautiful, because they were so 182 perfect, with their pretty open cut flower design on top, the krinkled edge and the golden brown color. Of course I need not tell you they were delicious. I shall never forget them. After dinner the doughnut making began. For hours mother would stand over an iron kettle of boiling hot, home rendered lard. She cooked the doughnuts while one of my older sisters, who had stayed from school | to help, sugared them. Dozens were made before they ever thought of stopping. Toward evening the chickens were brought in. After supper we younger ones sat around the table and watched mother and the older girls clean them, and cut them up ready for the chicken stew next day. WHEN bed time came everything about the house was immaculately clean. It seemed almost like the night before Christmas. Mother was tired but always a feeling of satisfaction and contentment radiated from her after a day's work like this had been accomplished. She loved to know that her pantry shelves were loaded with good things to eat and that her neighbors and friends were coming on the morrow to enjoy it with her. Al 'last the rag bee day arrived. We were always excused from school on this day to help mother and to care for the babies and young children who came, so the mothers could work. As soon as breakfast dishes were washed and chickens on to stew, the guests began to arrive. Mary Ann Egbert was so dependable. She was first to come and last to go. Then came Vickey, Rose and Ruth Layton. These three always came together, they married brothers, and lived in a row down our street. Next RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Aunt Flora and Aunt Zina came. Then Aunt Hattie Smith and dear old Sister Dibble. Soon Mable Flint came quietly walking in, with shy, timid, little Osmond by her side. A few minutes later Lizzie Day, Mary Phillips and Aunt Annie Layton could be seen strolling up the long path from the street. A stranger who had not heard of the rag bee, might have wondered what it was all about, for on all the country roads nearby these dear ladies could be seen strolling our way, with their sewing bags on their arms and their white tie around aprons, with tucks and crocheted lace at the bottom showing below their coats. An hour later the guests from far away began to drive in the lot with their small run about buggies, drawn by the old family horses. My father, or the hired man was always on hand to take care of these horses and put them in the stable for the day. By eleven o'clock they had all arrived and were busily at work on the rags. HAT a picture they presented in our parlor on those occasions. They sat in groups around the outer walls of the room. Interesting, chatty groups. Discussing their own household tasks and giving plans and advice for the future of each other. Their faces all alight with the spirit of neighborly friendliness and cheer. How happy and contented each seemed in the act of helping a neighbor and friend. By noon a pile of neatly wound balls were in the center of the room. At twelve-thirty the first call for dinner came, as they could not all be seated around the table at one time the older ones went first. The younger ones and children were seated at a second or third table. MOTHER MAKES A RAG CARPET What a feast awaited them in the kitchen. Stewed chicken with dumplings, my mother's specialty and the guests rather expected this main dish at her rag bees. Then there were boiled parsnips with butter, cabbage slaw, mashed Irish potatoes, chili sauce, a variety of home-made pickles, mince pies, and doughnuts. The deserts were all on the table when the guests were seated, except the rolly polly pudding with potowatomy plums inside, another of mother's favorites. This was served last minute piping hot, with a delicious dip on top that smelled of nutmeg and cinnamon. How their busy hands did work during the afternoon. By evening every rag was sewed into large neat tightly woven balls. The guests began to depart. Their "good-byes" were so honest and sincere. Usually a few husbands called in the evening to give their wives a ride home: Of course they were always served hot mince pie or doughnuts before they departed. "THE whole affair seemed somehow to strengthen a friendship in the neighborhood that time has ah + 4: Be 4:4: * "T now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence ' shall flow down from this time." "By union of feeling, we obtain power with God." "This Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls.'"—The Prophet Joseph Smith. 183 never changed, but as the years go by, grows stronger with its memories. The rags were gathered up and placed in large sacks ready for the weaver. We children looked forward to a trip over to the Fort, where the rags would be taken to Mrs. Harvey's to be woven. In a few weeks the new roll of carpet was brought home. How proud my mother was, when it was carried into the house and rolled out over the floor for the first inspection. During the long winter evenings she spent her time sewing the long strips together. The younger children sat about her rubbing bees wax on the thread she sewed with, to give it added strength. How happy we all were when the last strip was attached and the rag carpet was finished and ready for the kitchen in the spring. It had been a rather tedious task from beginning to end. But the joy and satisfaction my mother felt when it was completed was worth it all. I think today few women experience such a thrill with a beautiful new Wilton rug.