4: Why Was the Prophet Joseph Smith's First Vision the Vision of the Father and the Son? By Isaac B. Ball MAGNIFICENT monument to commemorate the first vision of the Prophet Joseph Smith has recently been dedicated on the summit of the Hill Cumorah in upper New York State. It is fitting to ask, Did the vision in the Sacred Grove possess a primacy of importance corresponding to its primacy in time. Does the first vision stand first because it is really first, logically and doctrinely, among the many manifestations to the Prophet? Order indeed is a high law of heaven, we are told. Did the Lord here, as we can see He did in so many other instances, actually place first things first? A list of the bed-rock doctrines of truths taught in this vision, and the correlatives that logically follow these fundamental truths is decidedly illuminating. The Son still has his resurrected body with which He ascended into heaven. The Father has a similar body, also in human form. In other words, both the Father and the Son have identically formed bodies in whose image man is created. Since the Son took His body with Him into heaven, and retained it, man also will take his body with him at the Resurrection and retain it. As the Father, so the Son, and so the other obedient sons. The vision, then, is a vision of man's origin, and also a promise of his destiny, the most interesting and the most important things in the world for him to know. Hence. Origins are fundamental for they point authentically to potentialities. See the tree whence came the shoot and the seed, and you see the future trees also. By learning what the Father and the Elder Brother have so far attained, the children of men may judge of their own possibilities. This vision illumines the Savior's admonition: be ye perfect even as your Father in heaven is perfect. The vision is a demonstration of exaltation, the summation of eternal progress. From it flows the world's loftiest doctrine of man's destiny: As God is so man may become. Implicit in thdt vision stands the Heavenly Mother with the Father, beside the Son, answering the query, In the heavens are parents single? Hence preexistence in the heavenly home. The eternity of the family relationship and of the marriage covenant follow logically. Therefore we conclude that this ineffably lovely vision that May morning in 1820 in the Sacred Grove, New York State, is first in foundation truth as well as first in sequence of time, for it epitomizes in its beauty and holiness the whole Scheme of Things, the entire Plan of Life: Fatherhood; Sonship; Eternal Progress; Exaltation. In very deed do we rightly designate it, The First Vision, for it stands everlastingly the Fundamental Truth from whence all other Truths proceed.