A Typical Case By Edna May Irvine CHARACTERS Mrs. GRANGE, Relief Society President. Her children: BETH, age fourteen. GEORGE, age sixteen. EpITH, age nineteen. Mrs. Stay. Mrs. BAKER. SALLY BAKER. Puit MONTGOMERY. The action takes place in the living room of the Grange home. There is an outside entrance at the right, entrance te kitchen, left and to other parts of the house at center back. A telephone is just outside the center back entrance. SCENE I (The door bell rings. Mrs, Grange enters from, left, dressed for washday, and answers door.) Mrs. GRANGE: Good-morning, Sister Stay. Come in. Won't you sit down? Mrs. Stray: I'm sorry to have to come to you, Sister Grange, but I just had to do something. My husband had some trouble at work and quit his job two weeks ago. When he came home and told me, I was so upset that I chided him for being so quick tempered in times like these. He got mad and we had a quarrel. He tossed me a five dollar bill, gathered a few things together and left, saying he might never come back. Of course I thought he would return when he got over his anger, but I have neither seen nor heard from him. The money is all gone and we just haven't a thing to eat, so I had to do something. Mrs. GRANGE: I'm sorry. Have you any idea where your husband may have gone? Mrs. Stay: Not the least. He has no relatives here and he hasn't kept in touch with any of his people, so I hardly think he would have gone to them. Mrs. GRANGE: Are your people able to help you at all? Mrs. Stay: They're all having a hard time to get along. In fact, most of them are on relief. Mrs. GRANGE: Well, I'll give you emergency relief and we'll investigate and find just what is best to do. No doubt your husband is hunting for work somewhere and you will hear from him soon. Mrs. Stay: That's what I think, but I just couldn't see the childrer go hungry. Mrs. GRANGE: Of course not. I'll call Smith's Grocery and arrange  for you to get what you need for a few days. I know you are a good manager and I can trust you to get wholesome food for yourself and the children. Mrs, Stay: We've always had to economize, so I've learned pretty well how to get the best values for my money. (She rises.) I'm sure I appreciate this, Sister Grange, and hope I won't be a burden very long. Mrs. Grance: Wait a minute. (She goes off lefi and returns with a paper sack.) Here are a few homemade cookies for the children. (Goodbyes are exchanged, Mrs. Stay exits right, and Mrs. Grange, left. In a moment the telephone bell rings. Mrs. Grange is seen at the center back entrance at the phone.) Mrs. GRANGE: Hello. Yes, Bishop. Well, I'm sorry to hear that. Is she very ill? Well, well. Yes, I'll go over just as soon as I possibly can. Yes, I'll take care of it. Goodbye. (Mrs. Grange calls a telephone number.) Hello. Mrs. Maxwell? This is Sister Grange. The Bishop just called to say Sister Robbins is very ill. I told him we would go over as soon as possible. That's fine. How soon can you be ready? All right, I'll call for you. Goodbye. E CURTAIN SCENE II It is 4 o'clock. Beth Grange is seated at a table studying. George comes in left, noisily, throws his books on the table, sprawls in a chair. GEORGE: Where's mom? BetH: Don't you know what day this is? GrorGE: Oh, gosh! Tuesday. I suppose we're going to have beans for supper. BetH: What if we were? Beans are good, nourishing food. I like them and anyone who doesn't has poor taste. GEorRGE: Sez you! I hate 'em. Betu: A fine soldier you'd make. As it happens we're not going to have beans. Hurry and get some coal and fix up the fire. As soon as the oven's hot, there are some individual meat pies to bake. GrorcEe: Oh, swell. But just let me rest my weary bones awhile. (He props his feet up on the table where Beth has her papers.) Beto: George Grange! Take your big feet off my papers and off the table. And hurry and fix the fire. It's after four and you know mother always likes us to have a good fire when she comes. GerorGE: Oh, heck. I wish mom would quit that Relief Society job. BetH: What for? So she could stay home and keep up the fire and so save you, I suppose! Maybe you'd like her to even get your wood and coal. I think she has a perfect right to go to Relief Society if she wants to. GrorGe: Well, who said she hadn't. But I don't see why she wants to. Messing around with poor folks and sick folks and dead folks. That's not my idea of enjoying life. Bet: Well, someone has to do it and mother seems to think it's her duty just as much as anyone's. I think she's doing a pretty good job, if you A TYPICAL CASE 169 ask me. Now get out and do your chores, and leave me alone. I've got lessons to get and it's Mutual tonight. GrorGE: Guess I don't have to go to Mutual, and guess I haven't lessons to get, and hard ones, too, not those baby Junior High lessons. BetuH: Scram. (She throws a magazine at him.) I know they're terribly hard. That's why you generally come to me at the eleventh hour to get me to help you. GeorcE: Oh, gee, I'm tired, Betsy. Why couldn't you get a little exercise by making the fire once in a while? I'll bet you don't even know how. Gosh! Girls have an easy life. BetH: Poor little over-worked Georgie Porgie. I'm to prepare the dessert and if you don't leave me alone, it'll be just too bad, for I'm going to get my lessons no matter what. Gerorce: What are you going to make? Betu: Applesauce! Clear out of here. (She goes after him.) GEORGE (keeping out of her way): Gee whilikins, Betsy, why don't you make lemon pie? BetuH: If you'd be decent and help instead of bothering me so much, I might try. Georce: OK. I'm your huckleberry. I mean your lemon. (He disarranges her hair or something of the sort.) Betu: I'll say you're a lemon, and a bad egg, too, and also a pie face. GeorGE (Taking her by the wrist): Well, come on, come on, if you want me to help you. I'm a busy man. BetH: Oh, all right, all right! CURTAIN SCENE ITI The setting is the same. Beth and George are seated at the table, Beth studying and George reading the funny paper, but with his books before him. Mrs. Grange is seated, darning stockings. Edith enters from left carrying some folded clothes. EpitH: I'm sorry I couldn't finish the ironing for you, mother. Mrs. GRANGE: That's all right dear, I'll finish it in the morning. GrorcE: Did you iron me a shirt? Epirx: No, I didn't, George. I abominate ironing shirts. (Edith continues on her way, going out center back.) Mrs. GRANGE: You have clean shirts in your drawer, George. GeorcE: No decent ones. Look at this one. Sleeves nearly up to my elbows. Mrs. GRANGE: You are growing, son. I'll iron you one first thing in the morning. Epita (who has reentered): Why don't you try ironing yourself a shirt, George? GerorGE: Say, what kind of sissy do you think I am? EpitH: That wouldn't indicate that you are a sissy. You are always saying you hate girls and are never going to marry, so it might be a good idea to darn your sox and iron your shirts as well as to make pies.  GrorGE: Aw, cut the kidding. I didn't make the old pie. All I did was make the fire and read the recipe. I noticed you ate it all right. Mrs. GRANGE: Don't tease, Edith. I think it was lovely of George and Beth to make pie for us.. Evite: I'm not teasing. I'm just giving a bit of good advice. I thought the pie was fine, even if we did have to eat it with a spoon. It reminded me of some of my gown attempts. (She goes to Beth and pats her on the shoulder.) Don't get discouraged, Bethie, you're becoming a fine little cook. (She passes to George and tousles his hair.) You, too, Georgie. (She springs lightly out of his way as he swings his arms above his head. Not catching her, he smooths his hair.) GEORGE: She's just feeding us bologna, Beth, so she won't have tu do anything. So Epitu: Are you nearly through, Beth? It's about time we were going. Betu: I just have to finish this page. (Edith starts out center back. The phone bell rings and she answers.) EpitH: Hello. J'll call her. For you, mother. Mrs. GRANGE: Yes? Oh, yes, Bishop. Is that so? No, I hadn't heard. I was there this afternoon and I could see she would not last long, but hardly thought it would happen quite so soon. Do you think we should go tonight? All right. We'll go first thing in the morning. Very well. Goodbye. GeorceE: There it goes. I'll bet I'll have to wear this shirt tomorrow, or one just as bad. Mrs. GRANGE: Shame on you, George. BetH: Is Sister Robbins dead? Mrs. GRANGE: Yes, poor old soul. I knew it would not be long. EpitH (reentering): Mother, what became of that brown dress of mine, with the plaid collar? Mrs. GRANGE: Why, I gave it away. I thought you said you wouldn't be wearing it any more. Evita: Neither will I be. I believe I did say that. Mrs. GRANGE: I'm sorry. I should have asked you first. EpiryH: That's all right. I had just thought I might fix it over, but perhaps I wouldn't have bothered. Betu: That's one hand-me-down I won't have to wear. Georce: By the way, mom, you didn't give that green sweater of mine away, did you? I haven't seen it for a dickens of a while. Mrs. GRANGE: Yes, I gave it away, George. You hadn't worn it for so long, I thought you were through with it. I gave it to Mrs. Montgomery for Phil. I feel sorry for those half-grown young people who get so few of the things they want. Grorce: Gosh. I saw Phil with that sweater on and I thought it had a familiar look. Mrs. GRANGE: Well, I hope you don't begrudge it to him, and of course you won't let on that you recognize it. Grorce: Of course not. Phil's a fine kid. He's welcome, but I'll bet it hurts to have to wear cast off clothes. Betu (rising and gathering up her papers): Don't I know! Mrs. GRANGE: I'm sure it won't hurt you children to realize that. A TYPICAL CASE 171 (Edith enters dressed to go out and bringing Beth's hat.) Betu: Don't hurt yourself studying, Georgie Porgie. GeorGE: Don't worry about me. Mrs. GRANGE: Have a good time, girls. (hey exit right.) I think Dll inake out my report while you are studying. Then you can take it for me on your way to school in the morning. GEORGE: You wouldn't be able to hold that Relief Society job if it wasn't for my help, would you, mom? Mrs. GRANGE (on way out): I'm afraid not, George. (The phone bell rings and George answers.) GeorGE: Hello. I'll call her. (Calls.) Mother. Mrs. GRANGE: Hello. Yes, Mrs. James. Yes, it's Union Meeting Friday. Will you please call Sister Brown and tell her? She has charge of that, you know. She'll probably appoint someone to go in your place. That's all right. Goodbye. (Mrs. Grange is not seated when phone rings again.) Mrs. GRANGE: Hello. Oh, yes, Sister Richards. How nice. Where are you going? That will be lovely for you, but we will miss you at meeting. Will you notify Sister Johnson so she will take care of the class while you are away? That will be fine. I hope you have a splendid time. Goodbye. GeorceE: Mom, I should think you'd train those dames to call the ones who have charge of the work instead of bothering you all the time. Mrs GRANGE: They know, but perhaps they think I should also be notified, and of course I should know. (Mrs. Grange is just seated and starts on her report when the doorbell rings.) GrorGE: Are you having a meeting here tonight? Mrs. GranceE: No, dear. GeEorGE: Cause if a lot of women are coming here, I want to get out. Mrs. GrancGE: Answer the door, please. GrorceE: Oh, good evening, Mrs. Baker. Good evening, Sally. Come right in. Mrs. Baker: Is your mother home? Mrs. GRANGE: Come right in. (The usual greetings are exchanged, chairs taken, etc.) SauLy: Where's Beth?. Mrs. GRANGE: She went to Mutual with Edith. Gerorce: Maybe I can take her place. SALLY: Sure you can. We came to see you. GeEoRGE: How nice. Mrs. BAKER: I came to tell you that I have the play selected and also the cast, in my mind. I'm just around notifying some of them tonight. I want George to take a part. Georce: Me? Not me. I'm not going to be in any Relief Society play.,  Mrs. BAKER: Sally and I both think you're just the one for the part. I hope you won't refuse. GrorGE: Naw. I can't act. I don't want to be in any show. Mrs. GRANGE: Don't be contrary, George. GeorcE: Well, I haven't got time. I have lots of lessons, and besides —well, I just can't do it. SALLY: Come on, George, be in it. We'll have lots of fun. GerorcE: Are you in it? SALLY: Yes. You and I have to play opposite. Mrs. BAKER: Show him the part, Sally, and let him see how cute it is. (Sally and George go to the table and lean over it reading and talking. Sally points and laughs and gestures all in dumb show.) Mrs. GRANGE (to Mrs. Baker): How soon do you expect to put it on? Mrs. BAKER: Within a month. (The two older women continue to talk unheard.) SAu. Y: Isn't it cute? You'll do it, won't you, George? He will mother. (George doesn't get a chance to protest and besides has weakened.) Mrs. Baker: That's fine of you, George. I appreciate it. We'll meet tomorrow evening for the first reading. Now we must go, Sally. I want to see two or three others tonight. GrorGE: Say, am I the only male in this thing? Mrs. BAKER: Oh, no. You'll have plenty of backers. Don't worry about that. (Goodnights are said and Mrs, Baker and Sally exit.) GEORGE (taking out pocket mirror and surveying himself): Gosh, why don't people let you know when they're coming. Just look what a sight Iam. My hair all tousled, and this shirt. Mrs, GRANGE: You look all right, dear. Well, let's get back to work. CURTAIN SCENE IV Time—A week later As the curtain rises, George is holding a small mirror and putting something on his lip. Beth and Edith enter from the left and pass to the right exit. EpitH: Using lipstick now, George? GrorcE: No, I'm not. Can't a fellow doctor a cold sore? Betu: Oh, Georgie Porgie! Been kissing the girls! (George glares at them as they pass out.) Mrs. GRANGE (entering from left): Why, how nice you look, George. Having practice tonight, aren't you? GrorGE: Yes. Mom, is there any way of stopping a cold sore? Mrs. GRANGE: You might try camphor. That may scatter it if it A TYPICAL CASE 173 isn't too well developed. I'm afraid you're eating too many sweets, George. I'll bring the camphor when I come back. (She exits center back. While she is gone, George primps. Mrs. Grange returns and hands George a bottle.) Mrs. GRANGE: Here you are. GEORGE (smelling): Will it make me smell like this? Mrs. GRANGE: No, the odor won't last long. You'll take me to Sister Phillips' and call for me, won't you, George? GEORGE (dejectedly): Call for you—what time? Mrs. GRANGE: We're having a short meeting and a social, so it will be about 10:30. GEORGE: Oh, heck, ma. Mrs. GRANGE: What's the matter, dear? You are usually so willing to accommodate me. GeorGe: Well, I had other plans tonight. Mrs. GRANGE: I see. I wonder how we can arrange it. I suppose I could walk, or I could miss the social part if that would be best for you. GrorGeE: Oh no, mother. I wouldn't have you do that. We usually get through practicing about ten. I was going to take Sally for a little spin after, but I suppose her mother will tag along anyway, as usual, so we may as well make it a foresome. Mrs. GRANGE: That doesn't sound very gracious, George. I don't know that I want you if you feel like that. GEORGE (putting his arm around her shoulder): Now, mom, 'course you want me. You know I think you're the finest mother I ever had. Have I got halitosis? Mrs. GrancGE: Don't be silly. I don't detect it. GEORGE: Well, let's be off. (Door bell rings.) Mrs. GranceE: Answer the door. I'll get my cake. (E-vits left.) GEORGE (at door): Hello, Phil. Come in. Puit: Is your mother home? GEORGE: Yes, she'll be here in a minute. Sit down. Puiw: No, I'll have to go back. Going to the game? GerorceE: No. I've got a practice. Are you? Puit: I was going, but mother's sick. I just came to ask your mother to come over. She seems to know just what to do when mother gets one of these spells. Grorce: Another heart attack? (Phil nods.) That's too bad. Mrs. GRANGE (entering from left with cake box): Good evening, Phil. GrorGE: His mother's sick again. Mrs. GrancE: Is that so? One of her attacks? Puin: Yes. I guess you were going out, Sister Grange? I'm sorry to bother you, but as I was just telling George, you seem to know just what to do for her. Mrs. GRANGE: That's all right, Phil. We were having a meeting,  but they can get along nicely without me if necessary. (Quietly, to spare Phil.) George, you take this box to Sister Phillips and explain why I won't be there. Puiu: I'm afraid you were going to a party, Sister Grange. Mrs. GRANGE: Not much of a party. Just light refreshments after a way George get me the Spirits of Ammonia. (George exits center back. Putt: Maybe mother will be better in a while so you can go anyway. Mrs. GRANGE (bustling about putting on her apron, etc.): I hope she will, but don't worry. T'll stay until I think it safe to leave her. Puiu: I'd better hurry back. Sis gets so scared. Or do you want me to walk over with you? GEORGE (reentering): I'll bring mother over. (Phil exits hastily.) Mrs. GRANGE: Here take these things, George. I believe that's all I'll need. GEORGE: Gee, mom, it's too bad you have to miss that party. I'll bet you're disappointed, too, but you wouldn't let Phil know it. Mrs. GRANGE: It can't be helped, George. Duty first, you know. Tell the girls where I am, if they get home first. And don't stay out too late, will you dear? GeorcE: I'll come right home after practice and see how things are. Maybe you'll need me. I guess if you can give up a party, I can do a little sacrificing, too. Mrs. GRANGE: That's very sweet of you, George. Turn the light out.