MARCH, 1936 Won. XXITI No. 3 Birthdays by President Louise Yates Robison ID those fine women of NauD voo have vision of a future for Relief Society? When it was organized what did they expect the standards would be in 94 years? How nearly are we carrying out their aims in meeting conditions today? Birthdays are milestones and a review of the past as well as plans for the future seem appropriate. The record of Relief Society is evidence that the "naked have been clothed—the hungry fed and the sorowing comforted.' Many have had loving service of which no record has been kept. We can celebrate our birthday— March 17th—with feelings of gratitude and satisfaction for the accomplishments of the past, but with solicitude for the future, we must find where we can improve. For a hundred years we have been taught correct principles by inspired leaders. The challenge for each of us today is: How are we teaching these principles in our homes? Those who make the excuse that "times have changed" may not realize that often it is the method of meeting the situation that has changed. Honor and truth and loyalty are as essential today as they ever have been. In a testimony meeting recently a young woman made an appeal to mothers to help develop in their children a greater respect for the Sabbath. JI wish every young mother could have heard her speak of her own childhood. Preparation for Sunday began on Saturday morning when her mother would assign the different household tasks. When the sweeping, dusting and _ scrubbing were accomplished, food was prepared to make unnecessary any cooking on Sunday. Not all of the children had special Sunday clothes, so the best they had were cleaned and pressed; shoes were shined and baths taken. When the material things were in readiness, there was always an hour for Bible stories or Sunday School lessons. When Sunday morning came it was different from other days—there was order and peace. Children were not urged to attend Sunday School—they were prepared—and eager to go. This was not an unusual home. Many of my readers had the same experience in their childhood. Could not this same program be adopted today with profit? It was my good fortune to be acquainted with the wonderful mother of the Sister who described her girlhood home. Three of her children are now my friends. One is a counselor in a Stake Presidency. One in the Relief Society Stake Presidency and one is the Stake President of Primary. 140 Relief Society's project is Bible reading in the home. This comprehends more than the number of chapters read by the Mother. It means teaching the children to know the contents of the Bible by telling stories appropriate to the age of the child. A delightful method of teaching the Scriptures is used in one of the mission homes which I have been privileged to visit. When the group comes to the dinner table, each person gives a favorite Scriptural passage; this makes an harmonious atmosphere for the blessing on the food which follows. The "Articles of Faith" or the Sunday School Sacrament Gem can be taught in the same manner. Respect for the General Authorities of the Church and an interest in their lives can readily be taught by remembering birthdays in the home. If on the birthday. Of the Prophet Joseph Smith or of President Grant, the mother would plan a special treat for dinner, flowers for the table or a birthday cake and the children who HOW RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE are old enough would be prepared to tell some incident in the life of the honored one, a lasting impression could be made. Before the baptism of one of the children or the young son becomes a Deacon, the whole family should be taught why these ordinances are performed and make a real event of the occasion. Prayer, tithing, the Word of Wisdom and many other important principles can be taught in the home when children are young. It requires care and thought, of course, but may we not find that "times" have not changed so much as the attitude of parents? Having a son or daughter interested in the Church or holding a position of responsibility is the most glorious compensation for any effort that parents make. My birthday wish for the members of the Relief Society is that we make the standards of our Church the foundation upon which we build our. Lives. They are our only safeguards in a world of doubt.