It might have SHE CAME TO SCOFF been a doll lying there asleep. Little waxen fingers rested daintily upon its breast. Slowly she placed her music—'Safe in the Arms of Jesus" —the words took on meaning — somehow she hoped it might be true. As the old organ responded to her fingers something began tightening at her throat, choking sounds came forth over which she had no control. Barbara had never been known to cry. She hated it; when the last note died away she fled from the room and threw herself upon a bed. Soon Anthony came to her. He took her hand, '""We have to face these things, Barbara, it's God's will." "Oh, but a baby! I think it's terrible! How can these parents believe in a God?" "It's their belief that makes them able to endure it." "T know it," she cried impulsively. "fT envy all these people—the joy, the comfort they get out of their belief!" "Yet you're determined to flounder around in nothingness," he said softly. How well he had expressed it. Nothingness. | Could this be the cause of that yearning she had always felt? She mace no answer. He went on, "Perhaps if you wouldn't oppose it so—would take time to really give it some study—this something in your life that has made you so bitter —-haven't you been fighting it with the wrong weapons" What has your hardness gained you?" Anthony could be so right with so few words. She decided to try the other method. The next day Anthony brought some literature—but Barbara took it to her room—and hid it. Perhaps she had just heen an emotional fool after all, 151 HEN came Christmas and she was vacationing in the city. Don came. "Bobbie," he cried, "you're more beautiful than ever—you're different—something about the eyes " Just then the old gang rushed in upon her. Soon the drinks began to circulate. Barbara laughed hers away saying, "Oh, when I was young like you kids I thought it rather smart; but now I see nothing clever about it. Any moron could do it!" There was a chorus of, "Is she insulting us?" "Gosh, an old maid school marm after four months," and ''Prunes, prisms, and persimmons!' Barbara didn't mind till she saw Don's look and caught his aside, "Why put a damper on evervthing ——where are your manners?" Possibly she had been rude. There were certain courtesies demanded of a hostess. She accepted a drink— the first in a long time—she could feel it to the end of her toes. Another one and she was saying, "Come on, let's go places and do things. I've been buried for four months." For two weeks they went places and did things. Ina half daze Barbara packed her bags to return to the country. "Tl go with you to the junction where you meet the stage,'' said Don. On the train she confided to him. "TI don't see how I can ever go back." "That's what I thought; so I bought a license. Suppose we can find a preacher in these dumps?" Barbara wasn't quite normal yet. The idea didn't seem bad as they stepped off into the lonely little station. There stood Anthony. He came toward her. One look, and Barbara instantly sobered. "Took it upon myself to come and meet you," he said, "the stage is slow and makes so many stops," 152 3arbara introduced him. Don glared, recognized the introduction with, "What's the idea of butting into our affairs? What do you have to do with this anyway?" Anthony remained calm. His eyes held that serious kind look that reminded her of someone. She had never been able to figure out who it was. ''Nothing at all," he answered quietly, "it rests entirely with Miss Barbara." "Forget it, Don, put the bags in this car here." "But you said—" "T didn't say anything. See you when school's out. Goodbye!" ILES of desolate land were covered; snow swirled about in the sand and dry sagebrush. Anthony said not a word. He was disgusted, of course. She didn't blame him. How she loathed it—even Don and all he stood for—she was glad to get back to the clean pure air of the country. Of one thing she was certain—she was going to climb out of this nothingness. Now she would have to do it alone—for she had lost Anthony. Before they reached her home he said, "Barbara, at first I was interested in you because I wanted to win you for the church; now I know that I want to win you for myself. But if it's this Don, I won't infringe.", At first Barbara couldn't answer. He had no idea how impossible she was. Then she told him truthfully, "Oh, Don and I have talked of it; but there's nothing definite. I—I care a great deal for you—but I must be very, very sure." "T won't urge you. I want you to be very sure. We'll let it drop till then." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ARBARA knew it wasn't Don now. All through the next five months she debated with herself. Anthony stood for a worthwhile life; she could picture herself growing into a splendid womanhood like that she saw all about her—a real home. She wanted Anthony's love more than anything else in the world —but this dark curtain that was between them—her unbelief—she tried hard to overcome it—studied all the literature zealously—there were so many wonderful things about it— but the old stony barrier of the years refused to move. Marriage would not be fair to him. On her last Sunday in Yates they were alone in the living room. She must tell him it could never be. Just as she began there was a loud galloping of hoofs outside. A man swung off and rushed to the door. "Anthony, Mary is terribly sick, can you come over and administer to her?" Anthony reached for his hat. "Want to come along, Barbara?" Like a Doubting Thomas she accompanied him; found herself in a home where strained silent faces avoided each other; eyes flinched as moans and shrieks of pain came from the sick room. They were carrying in a bottle of olive oil. Barbara remembered the first service in the church when she had laughed. Now she began to marvel as the moans ceased and heavy regular breathing showed that the sick woman had fallen asleep. Anthony came out. There was that look in his eyes that had always haunted her. Suddenly she remembered. It was in the eyes of the man on her Sunday School picture. All doubt lifted. She seemed to float out to the car —she put her hand in his, 'Anthony, I'm very, very sure."