What Contribution Can the Home and Community Make for the Advancement of Music? By Adeline Rasmussen Ensign IRST, what is music that we should contribute to its advancement? We have been told many times and in many different ways that music is of "Divine origin," "The Speech of Angels," etc., but I am not sure that we know its true value in applying it to our own lives. Music accompanies life through all its stages from the soft lullaby a mother sings to her new-born babe, to the sorrowful, sombre funeral march indicating the close of life. The "Morning Stars" sang for joy. David, the shepherd boy, soothed the spirit of King Saul with song. Armies have marched forward to victory urged on by the spirited, stirring music of the martial band, and broken hearts are comforted by music's healing power. I' thinking of a definition of music I would say, Music is that gift from God which penetrates the depths of the heart, reachable by no other means, to purify and refresh it. It stirs that something within us to look about for higher and nobler ideals and assists us in attaining them. It calms the most troubled mind and can change the whole outlook on life. ' Now, as to the place that music should take in our homes, Robert Louis Stevenson said this: "To make a home out of a household, a good fire and good music are necessary, and inasmuch as we can do without the fire for half the year, I may say music is the one essential.' Music is the educator of the soul and its duty is to strengthen it and if it is the main force in making a real home, is there a sacrifice too great then that a home can make for its advancement? We often see parents who wouldn't deny their children anything when it comes to their material welfare and comfort, but when it comes to their cultural development, where the soul of the child is involved, it is quite another matter. There is a vast difference between a child who has had the advantages of a musical education and one who has not. "Poverty of wealth is easily repaired: Poverty of soul is impossible to repair." Think it over. PERHAPS some homes cannot afford to have the extra expense of music lessons added to their budget. These past few years have dealt severely with a great many families, but music in these instances ease the situation and should be encouraged more than ever. The great music educator and pianist, Guy Maier, said: "Contrary to the general notion, I feel that an intelligent musical parent is often the best beginning teacher for a young child." Some of the great masters of music were taught by their parents. I wonder where Mozart would have received his training had it not been for his father. Bach, who is known as the father of modern music, received his first training from his father, the same is true with Beethoven, Schubert, Liszt and many of the other great musicians. WHAT CONTRIBUTION CAN WE MAKE? Many parents think that their responsibility ends when they place their child in the hands of a competent teacher, but they are mistaken. A child that practices daily under the influence of an interested parent is fortunate indeed. That child will make rapid progress and practicing will be a joy instead of drudgery. It also strengthens the bond between parent and child. T is an interesting study to watch a group of children listening to the rendition of a musical selection. Age doesn't necessarily mean a thing. Perhaps the youngest child of the group is the most attentive. Why aren't the older children more appreciative? Understanding makes for greater enjoyment in everything that we do. When the famous painter, Whistler, was asked why the need of art study in painting, he replied: "Take the guard in the National Museum. He sees great masterpieces from morning to night. He lives among them for years, but in countless cases he knows far more about prize-fighting than he does about art. Merely rubbing up against art can not make one an artist or an art critic. The only way to know art is to study art." Catherine Drinker Bowen in her book, "Music: A Friend for Life," says, "If only our children could discover music for themselves, and not be pulled into it, sulking under the harness! Verbal persuasion is unwise; exposure, repeated exposure, to good music is what turns the trick. But it must include more than listening." HE radio is a great mental and spiritual asset to the home, but it should be used as an addition rather than a substitute to the music created by the members of the household. Radio programs should be 179 carefully selected, for if we make the right use of the radio, it will not only be the means of enjoyment, but the source of education. Imagine hearing a great symphony orchestra and an opera direct from the Metropolitan Opera House, in your own home. The wise parents will see that the children take advantage of ' these programs so their 'taste for good music will be developed. It will be interesting to contrast the different programs that are broadcast and encourage the desire for the higher type. However, no matter how beautiful the programs on the radio, they must not take the place of the music created by the, family. Can you imagine a more beautiful sight than to see a family where all are taking part, some playing on instruments, maybe some are singing, each one in tune with the others; each one trying to keep in harmony with the rest. Don't you think that this unity and training reaches farther than their music? Don't you think that it is carried into other fields in life? USIC is a safe-guard in the lives of young men and women for it leads them to desirable companions, and it occupies their time that would otherwise be wasted. It leads them to the better things in life where the common and vulgar have no place. It cultivates selfcontrol. It teaches rhythm. All life moves in rhythm. Music must have rhythm to live, and when we respond to the rhythm in music, we find we are in step with the world. Rhythm makes life flow smoother. Wit music taking such a place in our home life isn't it natural that it should spread into our community activities? Business men are being awakened to the value of music. They are not only turn- 180 ing to it themselves for recreation, but they are fostering musical organizations within their own institutions. Have you noticed how happy every one is when engaged in community singing? Presidents have been elected by a stirring song sung during their campaigns. Every one likes to sing, it buoys up the spirit and all cares are forgotten. Wise employers are using music as a means for better cooperation and unity among their employees. Music is the best bond of comradeship. William Green, President of the American Federation of Labor said, "Music is a friend of labor for it lightens the task by refreshing the nerves and spirit of the worker. It tends to make work pleasurable as well as profitable and adds to the enjoyment of leisure time." Many of our most prominent men have had musical training. Einstein, the great scientist, is a capable violinist. The great steel king, Charles M. Schwab, was a music teacher and organist. FR PUCATORS are realizing more and more the value received from music training in our schools. Some of our United States Commissioners of Education and our School Superintendents say, "The value of music in our schools can hardly be over-estimated. Probably after the three R's music is of greater value than any other subject." "Music has the greatest cultural importance of any other subject; it has a practical importance as great as reading, writing and arithmetic." ''Music is essential in the development of the aesthetic life and the emotional life, and is just as important in the school program as arithmetic." Realize that these statements were made by men who are not musicians, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE At the annual convention of School Superintendents, otherwise known as the Department of Superintendents, these resolutions were unanimously adopted: 1—That we favor the inclusion of music in the curriculum on an equality with other basic subjects. We. Believe that, with the growing complexity of civilization, more attention must be given to the arts and that music offers possibilities as yet partially realized for developing an appreciation of the finer things of life. We, therefore, recommend that all administrative officers take steps toward a more equitable adjustment of music in the educational program, involving time allotment, number and standard of teachers and equipment provided. 2—We believe that an adequate program of high school music instruction should include credit, equivalent to that given other basic subjects, for properly supervised music carried on both in and out of school. 3—Recognizing the great interest manifested at this meeting toward making music a more vital element in education, we recommend that this subject shall continue to receive attention of the Department of Superintendents, and be included in the discussion groups of its annual program. L® us make every day, music day. Let us not merely listen, but along with our children let us participate, for when we once know the joy and satisfaction gained by expressing ourselves in that great universal language, the "Language of the Soul,' then, and only then will we know the true value of music.