CURTAIN Is Your Child Afraid of Storms? By Virginia B. Jacobsen F your child is afraid of storms you should meet the situation at its earliest manifestation with wise sympathy and a firm yet understanding determination to right the condition. Most children will show evidence of fear of terrific 'wind storms, electrical storms, or heavy rain storms if there is not a wise parent or some other understanding adult at hand to explain the phenomenon. Many children become afraid of storms through watching an hysterical mother, older sister, aunt, friend or maid. Most of us have known some foolish mother who has stuffed key holes, pulled down the shades, and taken the children into a dark closet during an electrical storm. Such mothers are engendering a stupid and senseless fear in the minds of their children who would otherwise be fearless of such things. We humans must face too many storms in, our lives to be harnessed with such a handicap as fear of the elements. One wise mother made it a practice of taking her children, while still infants, out into the -storms. She would laugh softly, and clap her hands at particularly brilliant electrical displays. This taught her children that it was something to be enjoyed, not something to fear and hide from. Another mother armed herself with accurate yet simple explanations of the cause and action of storms. When the occasion arose she was prepared to allay any fears which might arise in the minds of her youngsters. CERTAIN family was spending the summer high up in the mountains of one of our canyons. Everything had been delightful until one day dark clouds began to gather. One of the aunts of the family began to fret and worry for fear it would storm and make it impossible for her husband to come up the canyon that evening. This fretting and worrying had its effect on the children who soon began to stay close to their mothers. Finally the storm broke. A flash of lightning tore through the grey sky. The nervous aunt screamed. Children who never before had been afraid of storms started to cry. Surely there must be something to be afraid of when Aunt Clara was so frightened. The storm was terrific; one which taxed even the nerves of 'the bravest of mothers to keep fear out of the hearts of the seven children in the party. The children were gathered together by one of the windows. Elizabeth, mother of four of the youngsters, explained about the clouds, and the thunder and_ lightning. Gradually the children grew quiet and listened. They sang songs, and clapped their hands when the thunder rolled. Aunt Clara continued to scream with each clap of thunder and flash of lightning. It was explained that Aunt Clara was not well, and, that _she was nervous, and that everyone must help to make her feel better. This gave the children a sense of responsibility which pleased them and helped them to forget their own timidity., 176 Gradually the cabin on the side of the hill seemed to be floating in a dense mist. Mother Elizabeth pointed out that they were actually inside a cloud. "Just think, children, now you can tell your friends how it looks and feels to be inside a cloud." A thrilling thought to even the tiny tots! The storm cleared and the clouds floated down into the valley and left the little party high up on the mountain with a billowing sea of clouds below. It was a rare experience which most of the children will never forget because one mother was wise enough to understand and point out the beauties of the elements on rampage. But the story does not end there. One little three year old of the family did not come out of that experience unscathed. She was too young to understand all of her mother's explanations and stories. The vivid picture which remained in her little mind was the fear exhibited by her neurotic aunt. The strange thing was that at home she showed very little signs of fear of storms, but for years afterward the mere appearance of grey clouds in the sky, while she was in the canyons, would send her scurrying to her mother's arms for comfort and shelter. For three consecutive summers her weeks spent in the canyon were over-clouded with fear of a storm. Finally her mother decided that something had to be done about the matter. So, she suggested that the children put on a little play for the grown-ups. "We will call our little play, The ~ Good Little Cloud. The upper half of the stairway will be the sky, and the lower half will be the mountain. John will be the Sun; Pauline, the Moon, Bonnie and Beth will be the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Flowers down here on Earth; Jimmie and Tom will play the part of the Raindrops; and Jean (the nervous child) will be the Good Little Cloud. I will tell you the story and then you can practice the play and we will have it tonight while there is a bright fire in the fireplace." The interested children gathered around to hear the story. "Once upon a time there was a Little Cloud floating around in the sky. She was lonesome because she: had strayed away from her family. She wanted to do something to make someone happy, but she could not find anything to do. She asked the Sun if he knew of a job she could do, but the Sun only laughed at the Good Little Cloud. "You help?" laughed the Sun. "Clouds are only a nuisance. You clutter up my clean sky, and keep the Winds busy sweeping you away. You spoil picnics down on earth, because the earth folk think you are going to rain on them. No, Little Cloud, there is nothing for you to do, but you will please me if you will get out of my nice clean sky." "The poor Little Cloud felt sad and lonely, but she was a happy Little Cloud and could not stay sad very long. After a while the big bright Sun gradually sank out of sight, and the sky was dark. 'The Little Cloud felt more lonesome than ever then. Finally the sky began to grow light, and then lovely Lady Moon came up over the mountain. She smiled at Little Cloud. "Little Cloud, what are you doing out alone so late at night?" "T cannot find my family, and I can't find anything to do. Lady Moon, isn't there something that I could do to make someone happy? I want to be useful," pleaded the Little Cloud. IS YOUR CHILD AFRAID OF STORMS? "Indeed I do know of something that you can do to be useful! Do you see that lovely garden down there on earth? The Flowers have not had a drink for days. Do you see how they droop their pretty heads because they are so thirsty? You could send some Raindrops down and save their lives." "Oh, Lady Moon, you are so good and kind. I will send my Raindrops down and save the lovely garden." Then the Little Cloud clapped her hands, and down came the Raindrops. | Down, down, down they went until they came at last to the garden. The Raindrops danced among the Flowers, kissing their drooping heads. Finally the Flowers began to revive and straighten up. Then they raised their heads and drank the cool moisture from the Raindrops. 177 Lady Moon smiled at Little Cloud in the sky. "See, Little Cloud, you were useful after all, for you have saved the beautiful garden." HE children were delighted with the play and spent a whole afternoon rehearsing for the evening performance. Little Jean was particularly delighted with the honor of being the leading character, and entered into the part whole-heartedly. The evening performance went off exceptionally well, and the little play had the desired effect upon Jean. She seemed at last to realize that the clouds were friendly after all, and that the storms were only doing good. Surely there is some such solution for almost every case of fear of storms if we will only take the time and patience to find it.