A Welcome Visitor By Clarissa A. Beesley BERTHA ANDERSON HULMES HE Prophet Joseph Smith! Name revered among Latterday Saints as that of one chosen of God—the Seer—the Restorer of the Gospel in the fulness of times. Those favored ones who knew him in the flesh loved him with a deep devotion, and those who - have lived since have yearned with a great longing to be worthy one day to look upon his face and clasp his hand. Emma Hale Smith! Name also honored by Latter-day Saints as that of the loved companion who stood by the side of the Prophet during those troublous times of Palmyra, Kirtland, Nauvoo; who was close to him and even assisted him in the translation of the Nephite record; first to stand at the head of the great woman's organization, the Relief Society; and the woman to be designated by divine revelation as "an elect lady," chosen to compile hymns for the Church. T was with full appreciation of this noble ancestry and also with love and appreciation of her for her 186 RELIEF own sake, that relatives and triends and members of the women's  , during the Christmas holidays, Mrs. Alfred W. Hulmes, of Detroit, Michigan. Bertha Anderson Hulmes is the great granddaughter of the Prophet Joseph and Emma Hale Smith. Her grandfather was Joseph Smith, oldest son of the Prophet and first President of the Church of. Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, and her mother is his daughter, Audentia Smith Anderson, of Omaha, Nebraska. Mrs. Hulmes' son, Alfred, Jr., is in Salt Lake City, attending the University of Utah. While here Mrs. Hulmes was the guest of Emily Smith Stewart and was entertained also by Elder Joseph Fielding Smith and wife and others of the Smith family, themselves relatives and descendants of the Prophet and his brother Hyrum Smith. BEAUTIFUL reception was given in honor of Mrs. Hulmes by the General Board of Relief Society. In the receiving line, besides the visitor, were President Louise Y. Robison, of the Relief Society, President Ruth May Fox of Y. W. M. I. A., Pres. May Anderson of the Primary Association, Mrs. S. O. Bennion, who had known Mrs. Hulmes intimately in Independence, Mo., Mrs. Emily Smith Stewart and others. The occasion was graced by the presence of President Heber J. Grant and others of the General Authorities, while many women re-— sponded to the invitation, proud and happy to meet the great granddaughter of their first president. Those of us who had met this gracious woman before were particularly happy to renew her acquaintance. We _ recalled—indeed SOCIETY Reorganized MAGAZINE we had been remembering it eyer since-—that important event in 1933, when, in Nauvoo, Illinois, a monument was erected by the Relief Society on the spot where the Prophet Joseph Smith brought into existence that organization. The ground upon which the monument stands is the property of the Reorganized Church, the leaders of that Church having generously permitted its placement there. N the occasion of the dedication ceremony, July 26, 1933, conducted by President Louise Y. Robison and her counselors, members of both Churches participated in a service never-to-be-forgotten, of tribute and love to Joseph and Emma Smith and of gratitude for the great work they accomplished. To Mrs. Hulmes was given the honor of unveiling the monument. She was assisted by her own little daughter and the granddaughter of President Robison. Although our association with her at that time was brief we learned to love her dearly and to feel that she was our sister and friend. She and her husband, a man of fine character and personality, her mother and other members of her Church showed the delegation from Utah every courtesy and kindness. It is good to meet and to know such a woman as Mrs. Hulmes. She is not only beautiful in feature, but her spirit and influence are beautiful. Her voice is pleasing, her manner gentle. She is refined and educated. We could not help wishing that all of our women and particularly our M. I. A. Girls might come under the charm of her presence. Her outward graciousness is but the expression of the intelligence, WHAT TO SERVE AT OUR BIRTHDAY PARTY sincerity and fine spiritual nature within. Something of her modesty and earnestness may be caught from these brief words, written since her return home: "That beautiful reception of the Relief Society was a wonderful tribute to the memory of my beloved great grandmother, Emma 187 Hale Smith, and [ can never tell you how much I appreciate the privilege of sharing the joy of that occasion."' Our best wishes, our sincere affection, go with Mrs. Hulmes to her home in the East. We shall hold her in highest regard and look forward to future happy meetings.