The Forum on Current Problems By Julia A. F. Lund N October 15, 16 and 17, 1935, () a very remarkable series of meetings were held in the spacious and gorgeous ballroom of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel, New York City. Entrance was by ticket only, and came through membership in the women's organizations of the world. The Relief Society representatives were invited through the National Council of Women, and had box seats with the Council officers. More than sixty thousand women applied for tickets. This event of great national importance was the Fifth Annual Forum on Current Problems, sponsored by the New York Herald Tribune. The subject of the Forum was "America Faces a Changing World." The Chairman, Mrs. William Brown Meloney, Editor of This Week, assembled men and women from all over the world to discuss subjects upon which they were authorities. There were six sessions, each with a special heading, a part of the general theme. These were in turn divided into subjects which had a direct bearing upon the major topic. Both sides of many questions were presented, and diversified opinions upon world problems were expressed, but one statement was made against which there was not a dissenting voice, and that was "The Women of the World must present a united front against war." Mrs. Ogden Reid, vice-president of the New York Herald Tribune, welcomed the delegates. To her the vast audience assembled "represented a large portion of the thinking women—a_ still unrecognized supreme court—the Women of the World." Women will play an important part in the adjustments that must be made, and they are going to insist upon having a say as to what is right. The sessions of the Forum were in the following order: first, '""Trade and Peace;" second, "Some Assets of the Depression;" third, "Some - Safeguards for the Future;" fourth, "The Rise of Culture in the United States;" fifth, "Propaganda: a Force for Good or Evil;" sixth, "What Americans Should Know of the New Philosophies of Governments." Each session was of such absorbing interest, and so much material of immense educational value was presented, that to make a selection of what can be reviewed in a brief article, is as difficult as for the small boy in a toy shop to choose what - he may have. There. Was a most distinguished and extraordinary group of men and women assembled for this Forum. They came from the world of art, music, literature and science; from the most celebrated centers of learning—the great universities; from the fields of business and finance, from the seats of great governments, from the spheres of radio and the press, the theatre and the opera; all with a vital and individual message! The selection of a few of the illustrious personalities will demonstrate this. During the first session, Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt spoke upon "The American Woman's Place in the World Today." She made a powerful appeal for women the world over, pointing out that we 154 must think of our problems as a part of the great whole. American women have the best opportunity for thinking and acting, therefore they are in a position to assume leadership in the world of women. Cordell Hull, Secretary of State, in discussing "Trade and Peace" said that the business of maintaining peace is a very real and positive necessity, but the United States has the opportunity to exert a great moral influence. The development of international trade is one means of preserving peace. Peaceful arts are the dynamic arts. Norman H. Davis, "The Colonel House of President Roosevelt," sounded the warning that we cannot keep peace by simply wishing for it, we must work for it. Sir Samuel Hoare, then British Foreign Secretary; Sir Josiah Stamp, Director of the Bank of England; Lady Rhondda; Hon. Paul Reynaud, Deputy for Paris; Dr. Paul Van Zeeland, Prime Minister of Belgium, were some of the distinguished Europeans who participated in the discussions. All the speakers of this session recognized the imperative demand of people for the abolition of War. Political problems are the immediate symptoms of economic disorders, a malady from which the whole world is suffering. We must stand for a new world, a new order of human relationship. The musical numbers were among the most delightful features of The Forum. These 'included John Charles Thomas, whose father was a circuit minister in the South. The father preached and the son sang. His first music book was a collection of hymns, perhaps that is why he can lift one to such heights. Sydney Rayner, tenor of the Opera Comique, Paris, rendered a group of beautiful songs. The Negro Spirituals take on new significance when RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sung by the glorious tenor voice of Roland Hayes. Edward Johnson, one of the greatest tenors of the Metropolitan Opera, and now its Director, discussed the place of music in American culture. He traced the development of opera from the days when the French singers first came to New Orleans. This was followed by the Italian Opera in New York. He told the story of the buildings before the Metropolitan, and reviewed the artists and directors. This year gives greater promise to opera lovers than ever before. Rouben Memoulin, the producer of "Porgy and Bess," spoke on "The World's Latest Fine Art" — motion pictures. He said that all entertainment is not art, but all art is entertainment. The genealogical tree of the moving pictures is still but a shrub, but it has a glorious future. The development of the screen is away from the stage into a field of its own. Helen Hayes spoke to the subject "The American Theatre Comes of Age." The theatre has now become respectable, and acting is getting away from "'a job," and becoming a_ profession. The director has come to stay, and there has been a wonderful development in scenery. There are still some things lacking for its complete success, play-writing has not yet become a profession, the theatre is still metropolitan rather than national, but the future is promising. Jonas Lie, President of the National Academy, speaking on "Trends in American Art," said that art is international, but takes its type from within, or where it is conceived. By the work of our artists will our civilization be measured. It will outlive all other material things. The Depression has made people conscious of the need-for art. Truth is vital in art, as in all else. THE FORUM ON CURRENT PROBLEMS NE of the most interesting sessions was on "Propaganda: a Force for Good or Evil." Some of the ablest speakers in the Forum discussed the various headings. It is the most dangerous weapon for evil that exists, with all the means offered today, notably the radio. All, no matter what the message, may present it to the world. This power is just as available to the evil as to the good. It may also, if directed in the channels it should go, be the greatest force for good and the most powerful agent for social control. Abraham Lincoln said, "He who molds public opinion goes deeper than he who enforces law or writes statutes." RITA VAN DOREN, Literary editor of the New York Herald Tribune, and Dorothy Thompson (Mrs. Sinclair Lewis), International Journalist, were two of the outstanding women on the Forum program. Mrs. Van Doren is the first editor to bring foreign critics, as such, to America, and the only woman in America to edit a literary review. Miss Thompson is the best known woman journalist, and the most feared by corrupt politicians. She discussed "Government by Propaganda," and demonstrated its use by Hitler and Mussolini, whose Governments present the spectacle of masses of people held together by a fanatical belief in untried principles. M4YOR LA GUARDIA, of New York, spoke on the "Depression's Debunking of Finance." The mystery has been taken out of finance, and the practices of speculators revealed. There is not a lack of confidence in government, but lack of faith in finance. We need a large dose of good old-fashioned 155 honesty. The Government cannot legislate honesty, but it can jail the cheaters. OME of the "Assets of the Depression" were "Better Housing," by Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, who explained the Government's program of housing; "Better Knowledge of Health Needs," by Surgeon General Warren F. Draper, United States Public Health Service. This has been a real blessing to the people. D®: JOHN WARD STUDEBAKER, U. S. Commissioner of Education, in discussing "Modernizing Adult Education," said in the present time education is one of the best supports of morale. Education should make us see life as a whole, and the good life for all. OHN ERSKINE gave a most delightful and informative address in the "key note" speech in the "Rise of Culture in the United States." The soil in America is rich enough, and there is an abundance of seed. We have ploughed, planted and reaped—we are the harvest. Culture is a result of the best that has been thought and done in the past, but we must go beyond that and create things in our own right, look inside —be ourselves! "THE Universities were represented by Dr. Glenn Frank, of Wisconsin; Dr. Harwood L. Childs, of Princeton; Dr. Bruce Hopper, of Harvard; Dr. Elliot, of Harvard; Dr. Frederick L. Schuman of University of Chicago; Dr. James T. Shotwell, of Columbia, and many others of equal fame. HE outstanding message of the Forum came in the words of 156 Dr. Arthur H. Compton, Professor of Physics, University of Chicago. In introducing him, the chairman said he was the youngest man to ever win the Nobel Prize, but his faith "that God rules the Universe' has brought comfort and peace to thousands of his fellowmen, and is a greater credit to him than to win the Nobel prize. His subject was "The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Safeguard of Religion." How to live in the civilization he has built is the greatest problem of man. Religion is the effort to meet the most satisfying solution of life, and is its only real standard of values. In the words of the Apostle Paul "The spiritual man is alive to all true values of life."