Modified Plan THE First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve Apostles have approved of a modified plan for the visiting of Stake Conferences. Hereafter one-half of all the Stake Conferences to be held on each Sunday will be visited by representatives of the General Board of the auxiliary organizations for the purpose of holding in connection with such Stake Conferences their annual convention-conferences. The remaining one-half of the Stake Conferences to be held each Sunday will be visited by the General Authorities of the Church. This plan will cut down traveling expenses of those living in the Stakes, as they will not be called to come to their Stake headquarters so frequently. For the present the Relief Society, the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association and the Young Woman's Mutual Improvement Association will hold their conventions in the last two quarters of the year. It is hoped by the Authorities that the plan will bring increased interest and larger attendance at all Stake Quarterly Conferences. We know that our officers of the Relief Society will cooperate to the fullest extent in making this plan successful. Relief Society Song WE are happy to announce a new song written for Relief Society is in course of preparation for April Conference. Sister Ruth May Fox, General President of the Y. W. M. I. A., has very graciously presented the following verses to our organization. Sister Fox has always been an active member of Relief Society, and ardently supports all its activities. We are indeed proud of her contribution. Words by Ruth May Fox On the bend of a winding river, In the temple-crowned city Nauvoo, Our sisterhood was established By a Prophet whose vision came true. "A new day is dawning, Ye Daughters, The horizon gleams golden and bright, You are called to the Master's service, Your robes, should be spotless and white." Chorus: O there on the bend of the river, Where the moonbeams dance on the stream; We received from the lips of the giver, The key which unfolded our dream. "Your light shall illumine the darkness, Your words like sweet music shall cheer The hearts of the lonely and needy Who'll rejoice your footsteps to hear. The spirit of Truth shall go with you, Affliction and doubt to efface, By gentleness, knowledge and beauty, And the love which comes from His grace." Pictures of Relief Society  . The complete list includes: EMMA SMITH ELIZA R. SNOW ZINA D. H. YOUNG BATHSHEBA W. SMITH EMMELINE B. WELLS CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS LOUISE Y. ROBISON The pictures are 4 1/4"x7 1/4" in size. The cost is one cent each, per dozen ten cents. At the price of one cent orders must be for at least ten pictures. If less than ten pictures are ordered, add 3 cents for mailing. Relief Society Presidents and Literary Class Leaders!!! The Texts which will constitute the Literary Course of Study for 1936-1937, are now available at the General Office? 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Class Leaders will do well to obtain these choice books and have the advantage of the vacation months for study. The following exceptional values are offered: At Post Office paid Julia Ward Howe........$1.85 $2.00 Alice Freeman Palmer 1.15 1.25 Abraham Lincoln........ .75 .90 $3.75 $4.15 Set of Three Books....$3.60 $4.00 L. D. S. Garments Our Specialty We carry a complete line in old and new styles. The following numbers will interest you. No. 1. New Style ribbed lgt. Wt. Combed cotton, an excellent Ladies' number..........$. 80 No. 2. Old Style. Ribbed lgt. Wt. Cotton, our standard garment.. 1.00 No. 3. Ribbed med. Wt. Cotton, bleached. Our all season number. Men's new or old Style.......... 1.45 No. 4. Ribbed hvy. Wt. Unbleached cotton. Our double back Men's new or old Style.......... 1.50 No. 5. Light weight garment, Ladies' new Style................. 1.00 No. 6. Men's Balbriggan finish, an excellent summer number...... 1.25 No. 7. Ladies' Rayon in 4 grades, $.80, $1.00, $1.25............ 1.50 No. 8. Men's Rayon, in 2 grades, $1.25......................... 1.50 During Conference week we will mark the garments you buy of us free of charge, Make our store your headquarters. Nearest store in town to the Tabernacle and Temple. See our Virgin Wool Blankets, Men's Suits and Top-Coats, Ladies' Dresses and Suits. Factory to you. Keep this Magazine with our adv. For reference.
