% 76 106 Magazine Agent Loretta Bamgartner Notes from the Field By Julia A. F, Lund Blackfoot Stake URING the year 1935 so many wonderful achievements of the Stakes through their Bible Project were reported to the office, that it was necessary to summarize them and pay general tribute to all. However, the Project is still on the Bible, with a close correlation between that and the Teachers' Topic for this year, therefore we are happy to note again the lovely achievements in the field of our Project work. Ee tee chal tate et bent deca putt obs cee acct dh omic. Ee 2) Loven Bioeng ens ae RR ote ee 2 Biblical atmosphere. The happy event was under the immediate direction of the Stake President, Sister Mary S. Bills, and her co-workers. Appropriate music was arranged to accompany the scenes. The poems used during the presentation were taken from English classics and some of our own inspired L. D. S. Writers. Salt Lake Stake OME of the very wonderful work undertaken and consummated LN td ooh et eenalep alert cuties is wil sities ii at. Oe Bai BLACKFOOT STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY PAGEANT The above picture is that of a pageant which was presented by the Blackfoot Stake Relief Society. The event was held during the latter part of last year, and was the feature of the yearly ""Mother's Half Holiday." The costuming and stage setting were very artistic, and created a by our Relief Society Stakes is a. Matter of constant joy to the General Board of Relief Society. Outstanding among the Stakes whose achievements are noteworthy is that of the Salt Lake Stake, where very careful planning insures a year of activity in which tke fine blending of prac- 198 tical and formal educational work is in evidence. The book-binding project is so helpful that we take note of that. In outlining their project for Work and Business Day, January was chosen as the month in which to put this into effect. The thought was conceived of binding the Magazine, and this not only atfords entertaining work, but is a most economical and valuable type of service. In the words of the Stake, "In book form the Magazine is twelve times more valuable than in twelve single copies." In this meeting the entire Stake Board participated, and each member bound a volume. In the Union Meeting the work was presented to the Ward Supervisors, who responded most thoroughly. With a little time and effort a volume can be assembled and covered at a cost of from ten to twenty-five cents, depending upon the choice of materials used for the cover. The most interesting thing about the project is that every Relief Society member, from the youngest to the oldest sister, enjoys the thrill of owning their own handbound volume. This project was so enthusiastically received that many RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE many volumes have been bound, not only of the Relief Society Magazine, but other useful periodicals which the organization and members desired to preserve. This event proved to be so successful that it has been made a part of the Annual Stake Projects. The materials used are: cord, flexible glue, tape, fly leaves, leatherette or oilcloth. The tools employed are: a home-made press, two slats two by nine inches, bodkin or darning needle, hammer, clothes pin, clamps. San Lins Stake HE San Luis Stake is one of our more remote stakes, and while there are many obstacles to encounter that are common to all of our stakes, the Relief Society forms a great part in the life of the sisters. The picture below is quite typical of Relief Society. It represents the Sanford Ward of the San Luis Stake, and included in the group are two elderly ladies, one ninety, the other eighty. These will be noted in striking contrast to the young mothers with their babies. This is an indication of the very general appeal of the Relief Society work. The ¥ y SS SANFORD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY NOTES FROM THE FIELD experience and life of these older sisters is an inspiration and guide to the young, and the young find in Relief Society that which helps them to be better mothers and Latter-day Saints. Rigby Stake HE questions of Magazine subscriptions and Annual Dues are before the members of the Relief Society organization, and while the sisters all feel the great joy it is to contribute toward the gnaintenance of the general organization, they develop all sorts of ingenious schemes to insure the success of their work. The following scheme seems to be unusual and stimulating, and it may be of value to other Stakes in promoting their Magazine subscriptions and collecting Annual Dues. To quote from the Stake sending this in "In the search for the best methods to use in making a drive for our funds, one of the Stake Board members found a plate idea, suggested in a current magazine. From this suggestion the plans were developed."' Paper plates were purchased by the Stake Board and designed as samples to be copied by the Wards. The paper plate was taken as a background and around the outside a series of circles were drawn. Above each circle was written the name of a holiday common to each month, in some cases two days in a month were suggested. The holidays were: New Year's, Lincoln's Birthday, Washington's Birthday, Valentine's, Relief Society Anniversary, Easter, Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Twenty-fourth of July, Labor Day, Armistice, Hallowe'en, My Own Birthday, in fact any days which make a special appeal to the individuals might be used. The following ee little verse was written in the center of each plate: At each holiday time Please place a dime Under the golden star. Stick them down fast, And when the year's past Turn in the plates, as they are. The plan involves placing a dime in each circle, and this is fastened by a gold sticker. The time of attaching the dime is in each case indicated by the name about the circle. The Stake Board was divided into two groups, one blue and the other gold. The leader of Work and Business was made captain of one group and the Magazine Agent captain of the other. The plan was presented to the Wards at Union Meeting day. Each Ward in turn appointed two captains and divided the Ward members into blue and gold groups. The Ward plates followed the sample supplied by the Stake. A luncheon was given by the Stake Board for all the Ward captains. The color scheme was in gold and blue, and was very attractive. Questions concerning the contest were discussed, and much interest was manifest in the beginning of the contest. At the end of the year all plates were to be turned in to the ward captains, who in turn would report to the stake captains. These constituted the judges of the contest. And the losers entertained the winning group. It is the feeling of this fine progressive Stake that when once the members of the Relief Society become familiar with the Relief Society Magazine in their homes, they will feel they can never afford to be without it. The contest furnishes material for entertainment, and ls also instrumental in starting a good habit.