But in addition to all this Latter-day Saints have the restored HOW CAN WE STRENGTHEN OUR HOMES Gospel with its comprehensive plan of life and salvation as a guide to their feet and a light to their paths. Latter-day Saints agree with sociologists that the family is the most important of the social institutions. They believe, in addition, that it is a most sacred and holy institution and that family life is the most important of all human relationships. This conclusion is based upon their belief in pre-existence, in a future life, in the immortality of the spirit, and in the eternal and everlasting union of husbands and wives and of parents and their children. The Latter-day Saint standard of marriage is the Temple marriage ceremony. Simple and without ostentation, it is dignified, impressive, and comprehensive. In connection with it a vow of chastity is taken which is a glorious consecration, and a powerful influence in preserving the high single standard of morality for which the church has always strongly stood and which generally has resulted in good morals and in happy marriages. Tithing is accepted by Latter-day Saints as a law of God to man. To observe the law is to be obedient to our Heavenly Father. The law contains promises of rewards, but the greatest blessing is no doubt the satisfaction which comes from obedience to a law of God. 145 Important among the guides to right living is the Word of Wisdom, a revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith in the interest of temporal salvation. This document, which emphasizes the proper care of the body, condemns tobacco and alcohol, advises against the use of hot drinks and other stimulating foods, and promises unusual blessings to those who observe it. Other ideals and helps to spiritual development are family and secret prayers and the blessing on the food; the observance of the Sabbath Day, including attendance at Sacrament Meetings and partaking worthily of the Lord's Supper; the observance of Fast Day. Fast Day observance is most important and beneficial. It is a blessing to those who give and to those who receive, and is a most appealing and satisfactory opportunity of being a "good neighbor."' The greatest asset to any home is spirituality. It is the most dynamic force for good that we know anything about. Real spirituality. However, does not just happen, it is not a thing separate and apart from our every day lives, to be had and enjoyed at will. It comes as a natural result of faithful, consistent, righteous daily living and obedience to God's laws. MY PRAYER Dear Lord, let me see life always as I do today, Keep Thou my footsteps, lest they go astray, Take away the indecision and the fear, Help me make the ones I love, each day more dear, Do not let my mind go back to miseries past, Or let mistakes I've made dark shadows cast; Help me to be a model mother, wife and friend, And keep me loyal and devoted to the end. —Alice Marie Stoddard. Opportunity By Counselor Kate M. Barker HAT do men in this audience think today is the best gift that God on high could give a human being?.. "The best gift that I can conceive that God could give to one human life is opportunity. A man may be an excellent surgeon, and may have his work at his fingers' end, but if he never finds anyone who needs his help, he can never attain to success in life. Only the men to whom God gives an opportunity to do things can make a success of life.... "What was Christ's joy? It certainly was not in ease and comfort; it was not in long life or in the applause of men; it was not in riches and things of that kind. Who will question, when we come to really think of it, that those things are paltry things compared with the lastme; Joy of having done things?"— T. Grenfell. N order to meet intelligently opportunities that come to us, we must have an informed mind, we must know the facts and understand their meaning, we must be able to think clearly. Much of the world's weakness and many of its wrongs come from lack of straight and honest thinking. We must know the truth if the truth is to make us free. But important as correct ideas are, they alone are not enough. Combined with these intellectual guides we must have right ideals, motives, loyalties—those motivating qualities which come from the heart. Mind and heart must work together: "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. And with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind." Our educational courses in Relief Society have been preparing the women of the Church to meet opportunities for service intelligently. Perhaps never were a group of women better prepared. But are we becoming more concerned with our own self-development than with the service we can render others? Do we realize that a self-centered life tends to defeat its own purpose? Every single addition we make to our lives increases our responsibility. Jesus, who set the example, had the greatest of inner strength and purity, but led a life remarkable for its objective interests. He "went about doing good." To those with whom He came in contact He brought joy and happiness. OPPORTUNITIES for doing good are on every hand. We were told by the Prophet to "assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to raise human life to the highest level." Are we meeting this opportunity for service, or are we passively permitting the dollar value to take precedence over the value of human souls? Changes do not come by thinking fine thoughts or by forming good resolutions alone— changes come when these ideals and resolutions find their way into action. Perhaps, as never before, the world needs clear thinking, resulting in courageous action—not just daydreaming.