A Singing Heart (Eva Willes Wangsgard) By Ada Hurst Brown "O, give me the magic of singing heart, The music of rythmical words, The wonder that quickens the tears to start For joy at the song of the birds! "O, give me the keenness of fairy sight, For flowers have hearts I would see, A spirit that follows a bird in his flight, Communes with the soul of a tree! "OQ, give me the sweetness that clovers yield, The gladness of butterfly wings, For I would carry the message afield Of joy in all beautiful things." HIS, the key poem of Eva Willes Wangsgard's book of verse, "Singing Hearts," is a fitting key to the author's personality as well as to her merry, cheerful poems. She, indeed, has the wishedfor "magic of singing heart" and "keenness of fairy sight.' She takes such delight in composing her verses that it is no wonder that they are so delightful to read. The story of Mrs. Wangsgard's success is almost like a fairy tale. Until two years ago, she had no idea that she could write poetry. She had been too busy being wife, housekeeper, and school teacher, as well as bringing two boys and a girl to splendid young manhood and womanhood to think of doing any writing. It was after married teachers were ruled out of Ogden City schools and she stayed at home with her housework, that the poems began to come "thick and fast, from nowhere," she says. At first she was almost annoyed. She had planned on a nice, long rest after her years in the school room, but these poems would not let her rest. 'hey tugged at her constantly. If she relaxed they came faster than ever, as many as four and five in one day. It was as if something had been bottled up inside her all these years; something that must have immediate expression. Still she did not think consciously of becoming a writer; she simply expressed the things she felt. Her earlier poems were merry, happy little verses for children, personifying natural phenomena. The very first of these was a swing song, inspired by neighboring children singing in a swing. Some of these verses came complete with joyous melodies, while she was scrubbing floors or ironing. The next poems that came were adult love poems. She had never used a typewriter, but she obtained one now, and began typing her work. Her first poem for grown-ups sold to the Improvement Era; her second to Canadian Bookman. She sent things to other magazines, many of which were not accepted, but she almost invariably received a short note from the editors to whom she sent them. By this time Mrs. Wangsgard decided that it was not written that she should rest, and she went to work in earnest. She worked harder than she had ever done in her life, studying technique and spending infinite hours revising her poems. "I can carry them around in my head and polish them while I polish the silver,' she says. A remarkable memory enables her to give, without notice, any one of her more than two hundred poems. 192 A WRITER'S magazine for which Mrs. Wangsgard subscribed, carried a lst of poetry magazines that she thought would make a good proving ground. She picked out ten poems that seemed suitable for certain magazines, and seven out of the ten were accepted. Of the three rejections, one said the poem was too long for their purposes, and another said they bought only from their subscribers. Since then she has had poems published in many prominent magazines including Expression, Cycle, Sonnet Sequences, All Story, Zion's Herald, Young People's Leader, Lutheran Boys and Girls, Driftwind, Bozart and Contemporary Verse, American Author, and Portland Oregonian, besides all the local magazines and newspapers. P until May, 1934, Mrs. Wangsgard worked ceaselessly, but aimlessly, not knowing if she would ever do anything worthwhile with her writing. Then one morning as she awoke she said, "I know what the name of my book is to be." "Oh, are you going to write a book?" asked her husband. "T guess I am," she replied, "because the title is to be 'Singing Hearts',' and she recited the keypoem to him. Now came the task of selecting and publishing the eighty-one poems that make up the book. The love poems were eliminated because they didn't seem to fit in. Dr. Driggs, who wrote the foreword for "Singing Hearts," suggested that she also leave out her children's poems and make another book of them. This she did, calling it "When One is Small." This book has not yet been published. The problem of finding a publisher for her book confronted her next. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE She thought she would probably have to send it out several times, and she would start near home. She sent the manuscript to the Caxton Printers, Ltd., Caldwell, Idaho, and they accepted it, publishing it in September, 1935, with a cover that Mrs. Wangsgard designed herself. EVA WILLES WANGSGARD is of true pioneer stock. Her _ grandmother, Melissa Lott Smith, came to Utah with the second company of pioneers in September of 1847. Her grandfather, Ira Jones Willes, entered Utah by way of California with the disbanded Mormon Battalion in 1848. His brother Sydney was at Sutter's mill before the presence of gold there was generally known, and picked up a nugget from the mill race. Since their uniform buttons were mother-of-pearl and silver, it occurred to the brothers that they could be fashioned into interesting souvenirs. They removed the shanks, melted the nugget, and dropped a tiny ball of gold into the center of each button. Then, attaching pins to the under side of each, they had unique brooches. Mrs. Wangsgard holds hers as one of her dearest treasures. On her mother's side, her grandfather, James Munns, and _ her grandmother, Elizabeth Collis Munns, came direct from England to Utah in the seventies and settled in Lehi where the Willes family had been sent by Brigham Young among the first colonists to go there in 1849, soon after her grandfather and grandmother Willes' marriage. Her father, Lyman B. Willes, born in Lehi in 1858, met and married Sarah Ann Munns and settled in the home town where their seven living children were born, Eva being the fifth. She attended the public schools and the High School at Lehi. A SINGING HEART Of her early home training, Mrs. Wangsgard says that she and her brothers and sisters were guided, but no restrictions were placed on them except what came from within. Her parents seemed to take it for granted that their children would do the right thing, and they walked straight 193 ished her normal course in one year, and taught school in Lehi two years. Then she married David Wangsgard, and they moved to Mt. Pleasant, where her husband taught school for two years. At the end of this time they moved to Huntsville to take care of a store and farm beEVA WILLES WANGSGARD enough that she really doesn't know what punishment would have followed an overt act. When Eva left to attend the University of Utah, her father handed her a blank check book and merely asked her to be a little prudent. Although she was anemic and far from well, she finlonging to Mr. Wangsgard's parents. They spent three years in Huntsville. There was a scarcity of teachers, and Mrs. Wangsgard was urged to teach. She had a small breast-fed baby at the time, but she went to work, leaving the baby in care of a neighbor's daughter while 194 RELIEF she was in school, and feeding it at eight, twelve and four o'clock. She taught two years in Huntsville, then her husband was asked to take the superintendency of the schools of Malad. They had sold the store in Huntsville, and had bought more land. Mr. Wangsgard was in business with his brother, so when they went to Malad his brother's family took over the management of the farm. After two years in Idaho they moved to Ogden to be nearer their property, and they have lived there ever since. Until 1933 Mrs. Wangsgard taught in various schools in Ogden, spending eight 'years at Lewis school. Most of the time she taught history and geography, but she has also taught English, sewing and mathematics. ESIDES composing all the poems she has done since she stopped teaching school, Mrs. Wangsgard has written two prize-winning ward plays. These are musical plays for which she wrote both words and music. The first is called "Yellow Roses" and the second "Evening Glow." They were used in the annual road shows during 1934 and 1935 in the Seventeenth Ward, Mt. Ogden Stake. Mrs. Wangsgard hopes sometime to write successful operettas. She SOC a MAGAZINE has had many encouraging letters from song editors, but has not yet sold a song, since she has spent most of her time and energy on her book and her magazine work. One of the most impressive things about Mrs. Wangsgard, and one that other writers would do well to emulate, is her indefatigable industry. Since she started to write she has composed over two hundred poems. 'besides her songs, stories, and articles. One reason she has written poems instead of prose is that she can compose rhymes while she goes about her other work. She has written two juvenile stories, both of which she has sold. RS. WANGSGARD has an attractive personality and an infectious laugh. She is thrilled about her work and about life, and the beauty of it is, she is interested not only in her own, but in other people's work and lives as well. So she makes a splendid friend. She takes no credit for the lovely things she writes. They just come to her, she says, and it is her duty and her pleasure to pass them on. "OQ, give me the sweetness that clovers yield, The gladness of butterfly wings. For I would carry the message afield Of joy in all beautiful things." "If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates.' "You should be armed always with mercy. Would have God have mercy on you, have mercy on one another.'—-The Prophet Joseph Smith. If you EP VLOVLP VO PLP LP { { { {, q { q: { { { q Notes to Visiting Teachers' Attendance at Relief Society Meetings; [|X answer to frequent questions that come into the office as to whether the Visiting Teachers should attend regular Relief Society meetings or not, the following ruling was made by the General Board: ''That where women do not consistently attend regular Relief Society and Visiting Teacher Training Meetings, they may be relieved of their duties as Visiting Teachers." We recall with pride the fact that the institution of the Visiting Teachers goes back to the very early history of our organization. The great good they have done has been the subject of numberless eulogies. Keeping in step with the march of progress, the General Board has been most anxious to do everything to aid the teachers in their fine work. They are the tie that binds the Society to the communities. They cannot carry the full message of Relief Society if they do not get the spirit of the work and make themselves familiar with the wonderful activity and educational program offered through the regular meetings. Socialized Lessons HE great success which is being realized in the lesson courses of Relief Society is most gratifying. There are reports, however, which occasionally reach the office, that lessons are not socialized, that the class leaders give excellent lessons, but do all the work. In some cases they read extensively from the works of the authors under consideration. We are most appreciative of the fine efforts of our class leaders, but realize that self-effort is the only thing the Field which really educates, so to reach the highest degree of excellence, a leader must secure class participation. This may be by assignments, questions or various methods. It often requires careful, prayerful and persistent effort, but it can be done. There is something in every lesson which touches our lives directly or indirectly, and everyone, no matter how humble, can make some contribution. Literary Lessons GPITE of all that has been said, we understand that some literary leaders still feel that they must cover all the material given in the Magazine. It is impossible to do this well. We feel that it is better to pick out portions of it than to give a smattering of everything in the lesson. However, there are times when the wise teacher will give a very brief review of a part of the lesson that she had intended to leave out owing to conditions; for instance, many teachers in Salt Lake City who intended to spend the entire time on Maeterlinck's Bluebird, when they knew that the Midsummer Night's Dream was coming to a Salt Lake theatre, gave a brief resume of this play to whet the appetities of the women to see it and so they would get more from it when they did go. Comment on Teachers' Topic for April LL visiting teachers who faithfully present the topic in each home are becoming better versed on the Bible. By repetition of the Proverb they are increasing their "Mental furniture." "The ethical teachings of the Bible," (some of which we have in Proverbs), "are certainly as 196 much a part of our national ideals as any expression of popular government by Lincoln or in the Declaration of Independence itself." Conference Reports at Union Meetings HE Relief Society is fortunate in being able to hold two general conferences a year—one in April. One in October. No effort is spared to make these conferences opportunities where help is given to the whole organization. The Stakes make great efforts to send representatives to Salt Lake to get information which belongs to the organization. Often no report of this is made upon the return of the visitors to the Stakes, and valuable instructions are lost. It is recommended by the General Board that a portion of the time in the first Union Meeting following the General Conferences be set aside for a report of the visiting representatives. TEACHERS' TOPIC Comment on Teachers' Topic for the month of May TITHING—Proverbs 3:9-10 HE law of Tithing is so just that it has received the admira~- tion of many of those who make a study of it. It is interesting to note that in recent years attempts have been made by a number of other sects to adopt the system of Tithing. How do you pay your Tithing, monthly or yearly? It is recommended that those who receive a salary monthly, pay Tithing monthly. It is much easier to do this than to wait until the end of the year and pay the whole amount at once from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the December allowance, which means the payment of one-tenth of the whole income from one-twelfth of it. Try the monthly plan. LITERARY DEPARTMENT UR literary lessons suggest and inspire much enrichment from supplemental reading. The lesson _ for March seems particularly timely since the death of Rudyard Kipling has brought so much publicity concerning him and his great accomplishments. Near the same time seventy years ago, Rudyard Kipling and King George V, opened their eyes for the first time, and within three days of January 1936, each closed his eyes for the last time on earth. During the twentieth century three men of letters have been honored with burial in Westminster Abbey; Rudyard Kipling is the last of the three to be so honored. Through his honesty of purpose and expression, and his sympathetic understanding of human emotion, the spiritual influence of Rudyard Kipling continues. His own faith in th» Hereafter is expressed in this poem: "When earth's last picture is painted, And the tubes are twisted and dried, When the oldest colors have faded. And the youngest critic has died, We shall rest, and, faith, we shall need it— - Lie down for an. Aeon or two, Till the Master of All Good Workmen Shall set us to work anew!"