Through ex- THE DEAN OF AUXILIARIES cellence in planning, and understanding in execution of program, baleful influences are destroyed, and mischievous standards, wherever possible, are replaced with a more creditable course of conduct. This renewing of hopes, satisfying of hunger, and protection of the body against the elements, ls accompanied hy a devoted and sympathetic tenderness that is helpful to all classes of people. By such means the Soclety hopes to citizenize according to Church standards. It aids the socially, intellectually, and spiritually underprivileged, and therefore imprisoned, to rid their aching limbs of the chains that are forged upon them. Thus many stupid, blundering, or recalcitrant fellows, as well as humble honest souls, whose lives have been touched with adversity too heavy to bear, and who would be glad if they could find the grave, are the subjects of its mercy. Like unto Abraham, it first ran and fetched "a morsel of bread" to comfort the heart, and like unto Isaac and Jacob, through affirmative action, it has sought the favor of the Lord. Collectively it is an accomplisher of divine purposes, and teaches those whom it approaches to serve one another. In well doing its hands are not stayed. "Blessed are they who have labored diligently in his vineyard." In all its activities it collaborates with the priesthood, under direction of which all its activities are performed. Both its officers and members have great concern for the poor, and administer their work in humility, and with love and devotion. It is a benevolent institution, whose knees "have not bowed unto Baal." VERY standard of righteousness, regardless of how trivial 147 it may appear, that, directly or indirectly, leads toward God, is a standard of the Church, and is worthy respectful observance. [very standard, whether it be idleness, card playing, evil thinking, violation of the Word of Wisdom, dishonoring the Sabbath Day, or any act of commission or of omission whatsoever, whether committed or omitted regularly or intermittently, that tends in any degree to lead one from God is in opposition to the standards of © the Church, and is at war with God. That there might be unanimity of comprehension the Lord has placed a prophet at the head of the Church, who, from time to time speaks agree- ' ably to the will of the Lord, for the Church. The Relief Society is a ° helpmate to the Priesthood. It is the dean of auxiliaries, and is not an assailer of Church standards. It is an affirmer of them, and stands courageously for them, as interpreted by the Priesthood of the Church, which standards are achievable. Its belief in the Lord demands a wholehearted acceptance of the whole law, and it makes no segregation of standards based upon individual opinion. Therein lies its strength. Since God is unchangeable the rational conclusion is that He counts its belief 'for righteousness." It delights in well doing, and rebels not "against the Lord," nor fears "the people of the land." E that hath the spirit of contention is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend with anger, one with another." The Relief Society is peculiarly adapted to the promotion of peace, which seeds it has sown, and it "shall reap in joy." Its officers and teachers visit the homes of all the people of the Church, and 148 artfully, having great delight in their peaceful expectation, teach discussable truths, as well as administer to the physical needs of the people. It discourages disputations, believing that contentions degenerate man, and leave him blamable, and that hatred is the goddess of ruin. By precept and by example, and by charities variously expressed, it adapts itself to the needs of all the people of the Church. It acts humbly, and not * with greedy eyes, nor with stubborn will, nor with caprice, but simply, all the while motivated by love, and by the hope that it might free the people from the pains that afflict them. Surely, it shall "be weighed in an even balance, that 'at may know" its integrity. The Relief Society is in harmony with the plan of mercy. It is distinguished as an analyst of human needs. It understands that man ought not to "live by bread only but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God." So it SONG FOR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE teaches, mercifully, precious treasures of knowledge, and pearls of great price. The Lord is its source of understanding, and its "shield an exceeding great reward." An outstanding virtue of the Relief Society is the opportunity it affords for the spiritual and intellectual development of its members. For they study and are taught, not only doctrinal themes, and to give of their substance to the poor, but current issues. Its course of study is not an amassment of facty materials, but is aptly adapted to woman's needs, and to entice the society heavenward. It stimulates a dailiness of desire for educative and spiritual attainment, and enlivens tastes for the exquisite. It gives all who will work, opportunity to become more capable mothers, and aids to society, and teaches and trains woman to assist man to "replenish the earth, and subdue it," and to have dominion in the field where God has placed her.