She labors under many handicaps and surmounts many difficulties as this incident demonstrates, MAUDE FARNSWORTH Achievement 1842-1936 By Annie Wells Cannon LESSED are the women of the Relief Society, as in retrospection they look down the corridors of time, and mark the progress of their great organization through the past ninety-four years. It was a courageous step, and a challenge to the world when on March 17, 1842, the Relief Society was organized, for at that time scarcely any privileges or opportunities of education were afforded women. It is a satisfaction to note that through this long period, nearly a century, the Relief Society has kept pace with the 'March of Time.' From a membership of eighteen women it has grown until today there are nearly seventy-five thousand and the Organization is both national and international in name and scope. It reaches into far lands until it spans the world with its band of organized womanhood. A telepathic circle of thought is created as almost simultaneously songs of praise, fervent prayers, and general progratns are engaged in by this great sisterhood. So systematic is the work that the general president is in touch with the operations of each branch, no fatter how far removed, and is able to send a call for assistance or give instructions and receive an answer within a very short time. PRIMARILY, as the name implies the aim of the Relief Society was to look after the needs of the poor and distressed, but from the inception of the movement it was evident that the Latter-day Saint women were entering upon an expansive program of development along spiritual and educational lines, 'scarcely dreamed of before for women. "To look after the wants of the poor; to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community; to save souls; to grow in knowledge and intelligence; to be merciful even as our Father in heaven is merciful; to be pure in heart; to be united and cooperate for good," were the words with which the "key was turned for woman" and the Relief Society launched on its philanthropic mission. These instructions by the Prophet Joseph Smith, together with a perfect lesson in parliamentary law and procedure, form the foundation on which the Relief Society is built, and proudly stands today, among the foremost organizations of the great women of the world. ATURALLY with such a beginning Leadership is a distinguishing feature of the organization; appointment to hold office and to teach, requires one to obtain knowledge and confidence. In the establishment of organized charity, it was early demonstrated that the better way was to help people to help themselves. The women realized the fact that "work was preferable to alms-giving, for the former drives out indolence, the latter industry." Direct and indiscrim-. Inate giving, save in cases of emergency, was discouraged. Also the policy has been to avoid institutional ACHIEVEMENT care and localize in small groups the disbursement of Charity. ACING the organization in the beginning there were innumerable problems to solve and many things to do. There was poverty, sickness, and also new converts arriving from other states and foreign lands, and these things were the first consideration. The membership rapidly increased and a corps of visiting sisters was organized to seek out cases of distress and report the needs. This was the beginning of the teacher's work which now engages the services of thousands of women. The people were striving to build a Temple and the Relief Society helped by furnishing board and room and clothing for men who were donating labor, and _ besides they raised a penny fund to furnish glass for the Temple windows. Because of the bitterness, and strife and threatened persecution these women prepared a memorial in behalf of their people and furnished the means to send a delegation to present it to Governor Carlin at Quincy, Ilinois. In the forced exodus from Nauvoo the Relief Society women, though separated in different companies coming west, carried the spirrit of the work through the journey, over prairie, plain and mountain, and ministered in the camps of Israel at Sugar Creek, Garden Grove, Mt. Pisgah, and Winter Quarters. In the rude temporary homes at Winter Quarters, meetings were held to comfort, encourage and keep up the morale of the women. From such women as these has come a heritage of courage and service to inspire the daughters of Zion to continue the good work. 159 S homes were built and wards. Established in the Salt Lake valley, it seemed time to reorganize the Relief Society. A few wards were organized from 1851 to 1857, but from 1866 on the work of organization was rapid and constant. To further cement the work, in 1887 ward units were formed into stakes until today there are over 1700 wards, 115 stakes and 30 missions, all functioning under the supervision of a board of general officers and directors along their different lines of endeavor as a great auxiliary to the Church. HE benevolent work of the Relief Society embraces different phases and a review of the various purposes for the outlay of means is quite enlightening. The first consideration always is the care of the poor and figures, though counted by tens of thousands, would fail to estimate the relief thus given. In the covered wagon days help was given to emigrate new converts, and care for them after arrival until they could establish themselves; funds were subscribed for the militia men called to protect the settlers against Indian attacks; by their industry and business sagacity, through sewing, knitting, weaving, holding bazaars, giving parties, entertainments, saving and selling Sunday eggs, means were raised to help build schools and meeting houses, buy land and erect Relief Society halls and buy wheat and build granaries. Home Industry, of necessity in this isolated region was religiously fostered and besides the sewing of clothing, quilting, carpet-making, the women made candles, soap, dried fruits and even braided straw for their bonnets. They also engaged for many years in Sericulture. Mul- 160 -berry trees were grown and three silk factories were established. Many yards of silk cloth and beautiful ribbons were manufactured. The experiment, however, was too costly to compete with the imported article and after a few years was discontinued. The fine specimens of silk displayed at the World's Fair in Chicago in 1893 were pronounced by experts to equal silk raised in France or Japan. The general officers of the Relief Society own a much prized banner made of Utah silk, which was made for, and carried in the Jubilee parade in 1897. At the State Capitol are some exquisite Utah silk portieres which were hung in the Woman's Building at the Columbian Exposition. A Women's Fair was opened in 1876 where the Relief Society exhibited their handiwork and many beautiful articles were sold. At the close of the summer season these displayed articles and the success of the Fair led to the establishment of a Woman's Store. This store besides being an exchange where handiwork could be brought and sold on commission, also included dress making, millinery and employment departments. Temple clothes were made here and rented or sold. When the store was discontinued the Temple clothing became the immediate concern of the General Board and evolved into the beautiful and successful Burial Clothes Department now conducted under their supervision. HE Relief Society women have always taken an active part in matters of government and worked with all women for the privilege of universal Suffrage. In Utah the franchise was granted by legislative enactment in 1870, and many of the western states had suffrage long beRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE fore the 19th or Susan B. Anthony Amendment was passed. The women in these states gave much assistance to the women of the nation to bring about that victory. BTAINING tthe suffrage brought about the establishment of a paper by the Relief Society women called The Woman's Exponent. 'This was one of the first -woman's papers west of St. Louis. At one time it carried the caption, "The Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations." The Relief Society motto later was changed to "Charity Never Faileth.' The Exponent reported the activities of the Relief Society, contained articles of historical and biographical nature, items of current interest, stories, poems and editorial instructions. It was a medium for the encouragement of women writers. In 1914 it ceased publication and was succeeded by the Relief Society Magazine, which follows the same policy and is of invaluable help and benefit to all its readers. Besides these publications the Relief Society has published a number of books, pamphlets and circulars. The most pretentious of these is The Women of Mormondom, written by Edward W. Tullidge. HE mission to gather and store wheat against a day of famine was given the women of the Church by President Brigham Young. This work was faithfully carried on for 42 years when the wheat was called for by the government of the United States during the World War. At that time there were 200,000 bushels of wheat, stored mostly in elevators belonging to the Church. The small granaries had long since been in disuse. During the years some ACHIEVEMENT wheat had been loaned for seed, when through drought crops had failed to mature. Once a carload of flour from Relief Society wheat was sent to the famine sufferers in China, and a carload was shipped to San Francisco at the time of the earthquake and fire in 1906. Since the purchase of the wheat by the government, the interest on the money has been and is being used for health purposes. ALWAYS alert to the needs of the hour it early became apparent in the making of new settlements there was a need of midwives and nurses. A number of women were assisted by the Relief Society to attend medical colleges and prepare themselves, not only to practice but to teach classes in obstetrics and nursing. This led to the founding of the Deseret Hospital, which for a number of years was conducted under the direction of the organization. Domestic Nursing and Midwifery were taught and hundreds of cases cared for. Institutes were also held in distant settlements that lives of mothers and babies might be saved and trained care given. Later large classes were trained under the patronage of the Relief Society. These nurses under the direction of a superintendent gave fine service in the homes at moderate prices, or if necessary, without pay. Now to the large modern Church hospitals the Relief Society contributes linen, fruit and other supplies. One Materity Hospital is at present conducted by the Cottonwood Stake Relief Society. ACH period of time has its own demands on a community, but as its social, industrial and economic life changes, different requirements are made. Where the main incentive 161 is to benefit others, methods and conduct must change if the course is onward and the vision clear. OOPERATION with other organizations in regard to public questions of service — Suffrage, Temperance, Red Cross, Peace, and others, social and humanitarian—led to an affiliation with the National and International Councils of Women. The Relief Society is a charter member in these Councils and regularly sends representative women, as delegates to the conventions and congresses which are held at stated intervals in different capitals of the world. These delegates hold responsible positions in office and on committees and their assistance. And judgment is much respected. HE Relief Society is legally Incorporated because of its extensive holdings; this does not, however change its status as a Church auxiliary. The untiring labor and daring enterprise of the pioneer women, prepared the way for the later ventures into the more cultural and educational programs. Means were raised by the establishment of different funds, to provide and furnish suitable Headquarters and Offices and for traveling expenses of officers and board members in their official visits to conferences and conventions. HE Adult Educational Program furnished the members is prepared by professionals and closely approaches a university course in excellence. Theology, Literature, Sociology, Home Ethics and Domestic Art, and Teacher Topic Training, are subjects printed in the Relief Society Magazine and given by selected teachers in the several wards. The fine art of Music is at 162 all times encouraged. In the several wards are choruses or choirs of women, while the General Board maintains a choir of three hundred women known as the "Singing Mothers,' who furnish music for the Relief Society conferences, are at times asked to sing at sessions of the general conference of the Church and occasionally broadcast over the air. HE women of the present generation maintain the high standards set for their organization by the Prophet Joseph Smith at the first meeting, nor have they forgotten the accomplishments of those who pioneered and carried on the work before them. Living Memorials have been established to the honor and in the name of the past presidents. While RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE at Nauvoo a beautiful Monument in imperishable stone has been erected and dedicated on the spot where the Relief Society was organized and in memory of that occasion. COMPLETE narrative of this magnificent organization—The Relief Society, were it possible, would fill a volume. Even in relating some of the outstanding accomplish- 'ments much is left unsaid. After all, the finest achievement is the spiritual and educational advancement of the members themselves, for through every period of time, through every endeavor, has reigned the glory of Spirituality— that golden thread of Testimony holding sacredly together this band of sisterhood, whose lives are enriched beyond price by this sublime humanitarian service.