MORNING By Katherine Fernelius I love the breath of the morning wind, Blowing so cool against my cheek, Whispering hope for the dawning day, Bidding ime rise, go forth and seek! I love the tasks that the day brings forth, The trivial tasks that make the whole; Each, well-done, is a further step To the ultimate goal. I love the clasp of a friendly hand, Strong and true, as a band of steel Welding our fragile lives in one, Lasting through every woe and weal. I love a song on the lips of youth, The joyous song that comes from the heart, A genuine smile, a genuine tear, In Life's great mart. She Came to Scoff By Clara Perman ONOGRAMMED traveling M bags lay open on the davenport; an array of silks floated from the backs of chairs; the floor was adorned with dainty shppers of every color and style. A knock at the door brought a girl from behind a_ large wardrobe trunk. Some might have thought her beautiful; but to the close observer Barbara's loveliness was spoiled by a certain hardness in the eves, a cold defiance. Possibly it was because they seemed too brown for the silky soft gold of her hair. "Come in," she called, prepared to meet Don's surprise. In the profusion he appeared more sleek and immaculate than ever. "Got a job!" she announced. "Job? Where? What?" "Teaching school. Rural, I guess. Called Yates—up north somewhere." "Yates! Say, I've heard of that place. Why it's right out in the sticks and every family there ls Mormon—you'll he ostracised—if not kicked out!" "IT don't care whether they're Mormon, Methodist. Or Mohammedan. My application stated that I had no religious preference—so— they can kick me out for lack of religion; but I'd like to see them stop paying my salary!" "Why worry about a salary — your mother and dad both have scads of money—let's get married —we could keep it a secret till I'm out of school if you want to." He walked over to a little cabinet and started to mix a cocktail. "When I marry," Barbara returned, "I want to he so happy that Vl shout it from the housetops. [Hl have to be very, very sure for I want areal home. It's something | never had—batted back and forth between mother and dad—dumped into fine schools—all the money I wanted—- but it doesn't satisfy. I'm hungry for something and I don't know what it is. I've 'heard work is a good tonic for that. One year of work and I'll give you your answer." ND so it was that in September Barbara was located in the little rural community of Yates. It was true, every family there belonged to the Latter-day Saints' Church. Their social life was closely allied to their church. Barbara's only religious experience had been one visit to Sunday School. Deeply impressed with the story of Christ Blessing the Little Children she had taken her picture home and asked to be taken to see this man. The laughter that followed had made her throw the picture away in disgust. It was a fake. There was no such man. Her later life had brought no further proof of his existence. Remembering Don's warning of ostracism she kept strictly aloof and fought the wretched loneliness with hard work. N the third Sunday morning Mrs. Wright, with whom she stayed, joyously announced. "I'm having a family reunion here today in honor of my nephew Anthony, just home from missionary service. Barbara did not rejoice over the news. Not until a call for dinner came did she go down. Her eyes grew harder as she steeled herself for meeting this undoubtedly long, thin. Pious missionary and the cold shoulders of the others. Don's great wisdom, however, lost a little prestige when warn smiles greeted her and friendly hands were extended. 150 The men were just coming in from outdoors. Above the heads of the others towered a crop of black unruly hair, two twinkling blue eyes, and the broadest smile of any. He was far from being thin. "What on earth, Anthony?" called his mother as she began to dust him off. "Well, they bet I'd forgotten how to tie a calf and I had to show them!" Barbara decided her previous picture was a little far fetched and found herself not minding it in the least when he was placed next to her at the table. The afternoon raced into church time and Anthony, taking it for granted that everyone went to church, said to her, ""May I ride you over?" Barbara didn't want to sail un-- der false colors, "Oh, I don't attend. I don't belong to your church. In fact, I'm plain heathen." "Well, if the church only admits inembers, it won't do a very big business, will it?" This hinted of sentimentality which she despised. "As a likely business prospect—I'm just not— that's final." "We've never yet forced anyone to take up our belief, Miss Barbara. You're perfectly safe in going, if you care to." In the end she went, smiling to herself when Anthony got up to make a talk; but it was not the talk of a boy—a serious well-poised man told of his travels. There was something about his eyes that reminded her of someone; she couldn't think who it was. Now what were they doing? It looked like a bottle of olive oil—they were blessing it—a laugh went up her sleeve. When Anthony took her to a dance in the same building the next Saturday night, she was amazed; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE when the dance opened with prayer, she openly showed her amusement until he explained, "We believe in taking our religion with us wherever we go." Barbara studied this a while then said, "I don't know but what you're right. The dances I usually attend are opened with a corkscrew." As the evening wore on she made other comparisons which were very favorable. When Anthony was leaving he said lightly, "Church tomorrow night?" "On one condition—no discussion of religion." It was agreed. The procedure was adopted for continuing Sunday nights. Barbara even played selections for special music occasionally. Anthony was true to his word. T a service about the middle of December the bishop announced. "The funeral of the Jones baby will be held tomorrow afternoon. As yet I have found no one to play the organ. The trip will have to be made on horseback as the mountain road is blocked with snow. Will anyone volunteer to do this service?" There was no response. At last Barbara said, "I shall be glad to go." Anthony managed to squeeze her hand surreptitiously. "Tt's nice to feel that I'm a little part of it all," she thought to herself the next day as half frozen she had to be helped into the little house already filled with women cleaning. Cooking, caring for the children. Love—their eyes glowed with it— they made no exceptions but rubbed her hands and feet, poured warm milk down her—a motherly tenderness that she had never known. 'With no previous conception of what death meant, Barbara passed into the living room; saw the tiny homemade casket.