EDITORIAL . Motto  Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mas. Eumkline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasures. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. IV. JULY, 1917. No. 7 The great war that is upon the face of the War. whole earth has long been predicted. The Savior was very explicit in his delineation of the events in the last days to his disciples as recorded in the twenty-fourth chapter of Matthew, and in the twenty-first chapter of Luke. In the forty-fifth section of the Doctrine and Covenants the same things are treated at length. Let us quote from this wonderful revelation: "Ye say that ye know that the end of the world cometh; ye say also that ye know that the heavens and the earth shall pass away; and in this ye say truly, for so it is; but these things which I have told you shall not pass away until all shall be fulfilled. And this I have told you concerning Jerusalem, and when that day shall come, shall a remnant be scattered among all nations; but they shall be gathered again but they shall remain until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled. And in that day ahull be heard of wars and rumors of wars, and the whole earth shall be in commotion, and men's hearts shall fail them, and they shall say that Christ delayeth his coming until the end of the earth. And the love of men shall wax cold, and iniquity shall abound; and when the times of the Gentiles is come in, a light shall break forth among them that pit in darkness, and it shall be the fullness of my gospel; but they receive it not, for they perceive not the light and they turn their hearts from me because of the precepts of men; 
 * * * And there shall be earthquakes also in divers places, and many desolations; yet men will harden their hearts against me, and they will take up the sword, one against another, and they will kill one another." The Lord then indicates the events that are The Jews. today transpiring in Jerusalem. The British forces are marching steadily and surely towards the city of David. Bagdad has fallen  the Turks are retreating from stronghold to stronghold. The American Jews are holding a great convention as we go to press demanding liberty and autonomy for the Jews in Jerusalem, listen to what the Savior says: "Then shall the arm of the Lord fall upon the nations. And then shall the Lord set his foot upon this mount, and it shall cleave in twain, and the earth shall tremble, and reel to and from and the heavens also shall shake. And the Lord shall utter his voice, and all the ends of the earth shall hear it. and the nations of the earth shall mourn, and they that have laughed shall see their foil}-. And calamity shall cover the mocker, and the scorner shall be consumed, and they that have watched for iniquity shall be hewn down and cast into the fire. And then shall the Jews look upon me and say. What are these wounds in thine hands and in thy feet? Then shall they know that I am the Lord; for 1 will say unto them, These wounds are the wounds with which I was wounded in the house of my friends. I am he who was lifted up. I am Jesus that was crucified. I am the Son of God. And then shall they weep because of their iniquities; then shall they lament because they persecuted their King. And then shall the heathen rations be redeemed, and they that knew no law shall have part in the first resurrection; and it shall be tolerable for them; "And Satan shall be bound that he shall have no place in the hearts of the children of men. And at that day. when I shall come in my glory, shall the parable be fulfilled which I spake concerning the ten virgins; for they that are wise and have received the truth, and have taken the Holy Spirit for their guide, and have not been deceived; verily I say unto yon, they shall not be hewn down and cast into the fire, but shall abide the day. And the earth shall be given unto them for an inheritance; and they shall multiply and wax strong. and their children shall grow up without sin unto salvation. For the Lord shall be in their midst, and his glory shall be upon them, and he will be their king and their Lawgiver." Russia  that land where many of the A Nation Born descendants of the Ten Tribes are found has in a Day. put the key of revolution in the door of liberty. Mine. Mountford's declarations EDITORIAL. 407 corning the secret groups of Ephraimites in the terror-ridden hind will now have opportunity for public demonstration, and the way will no doubt be opened to preach the gospel in this hitherto hermetically sealed kingdom. The heathen is astir. Note the unbelievable The Pagan changes in China since the recent astounding Nations. revolution there. Many of our people wonder if all the pagans must be preached to before the coming of the Savior. Read what the Lord says in this section: "And then shall the heathen nations be redeemed, and they that knew no law shall be tolerable for them." Again, we call your studious attention to the What the Lord panorama of events prophesied of in this resays About elation written 86 years ago: "For verily These Wars. I say unto you, that great things await you; Ye hear of wars in foreign lands, but, behold, I say unto you, they are nigh, even at your doors, and not many years hence ye shall hear of wars in your own lands. Wherefore I, the Lord, have said, gather ye out from the eastern lands, assemble ye yourselves together ye elders of my church; go ye forth into the western countries, call upon the inhabitants to repent and inasmuch as they do repent, build up churches unto me; and with one heart and with one mind, gather up your riches that ye may purchase inheritance which shall hereafter be appointed unto you. And it shall be called the New Jerusalem, a land of peace, a city of refuge, and a place of safety for the saints of the most High God; and the glory of the Lord shall be there, and the terror of the Lord also shall be there, insomuch that the wicked will not come into it, and it shall be called Zion. And it shall come to pass, among the wicked, that every man that will not take his sword against his neighbor, must needs flee unto Zion for safety. And there shall be gathered unto it out of every nation under heaven; and it shall be the only people that shall not be at war one with another. And it shall be said among the wicked. Let us not go up to battle against Zion. for the inhabitants of Zion are terrible; wherefore we cannot stand. And it shall come to pass that the righteous shall be gathered out from among all nations, and shall come to Zion, singing with songs of everlasting joy." Now, the question arises: When are these When? events to take place. Note these words of the same revelation: "And there shall be men standing in that generation, that shall not pass, until they see an overflowing scourge; for a desolating sickness shall cover the land." 
 "Yea, the word of the Lord concerning his church, established in the last days for the restoration of his people, a> he has spoken by the month of his prophets, and for the gathering of his saints to stand upon Mount Zion, which shall be the city of New Jerusalem, "Which city shall be built, beginning at the temple lot, which is appointed by the finger of the Lord in the western boundaries of the state of Missouri, and dedicated by the hand of Joseph Smith, Jr., and others with whom the Lord was well pleased. Verily this is the word of the Lord, that the city New Jerusalem shall be built by the gathering of the saints beginning at this place, even the place of the temple, which temple shall be reared in this generation; for verily, this generation shall not all pass away until an house shall be built unto the Lord, and a cloud shall rest upon it, which cloud shall be even the glory of the Lord, which shall fill the house." Where Shall What then will be our condition? Hear what We Be Safe? in says and shall not be moved; stand '-"places the holy: "But my disciples shall but among the wicked, men shall life up their voices, curse God and die." We may safely conclude that we are in the midst of the most stirring scenes ever enacted upon this earth, and that every effort we put forth to build up righteousness and to keep our feet fixed on the rock of revelation will help the Savior that much in this final upheaval of world events. This war may quiet down for a time, but the events prophesied will just as surely all be fulfilled as have been those already taking place. Those who stand in holy places will have the spirit of calm reliance upon God, and peace shall be in their souls. In matter how the storms rage about us. When our sons go to war they will go with our blessings and prayers. Should the) give up their lives in defense of God and country, we shall still praise God and wait calmly the happy reunion on the other side. Meanwhile we will study the Scriptures, take care of our homes, attend to Relief Society duties, and visit the temples  those holy places  whenever we can. Thus fortified we shall take our own places in the world's history and do our modest "bit," to further the fulfilment of prophecy. Guide Lessons. AUGUST. Home Economics LESSON I. CANNING SOUPS. The canning of vegetable soups, purees, and consomes is thoroughly practical, and should be a part of our economy work. It will be a delight next winter to be able to reach to a shelf for a home-canned jar of soup, open it, heat it, and serve within a few minutes' time. We are accused of being a wasteful people, wasting much of the products of garden and farm. The bones that are often discarded when meat is being packed for winter use contain valuable food. Let us develop, through soup making and soup canning, habits of economy and education in thrift. The bones from beef and chicken are by far the most common, though others can be used. SOUP CANNING RECIPES. Soup Stock. Secure twenty-five pounds of beef hocks, joints, and bones containing marrow. Strip off the fat and meat and crack bones with a hatchet or cleaver. Put the broken bones in a thin cloth sack and place them in a large kettle containing five gallons of cold water. Simmer (do not boil) for six or seven hours. Do not salt while simmering. Skim off all fat. This should make about five gallons of stock. Pack hot in glass jars, bottles, or enamel or lacquered tin cans. Partially seal glass jars. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize fifty minutes if using a hot-water bath outfit; forty minutes if using a water-seal or a five pound steam-pressure outfit; thirty minutes if using a pressure-cooker outfit. (Check list of supplies to be provided before beginning work.) 25 pounds of beef bones. 5 gallons of water. / 'cogitable Soup. Soak pound lima or navy beans and 1 pound rice for 12 hours. Cook 2 pound pearl barley for 2 hours. Blanch 1 pound carrots, 1 pound onions, 1 medium-sized potato, and 1 red pepper for 3 minutes and blanch. Prepare the vegetables and cut into small cubes. Mix thoroughly lima or navy beans, rice, barley. Of carrots, onions, potatoes, red pepper. Fill glass jars or the  
 enameled tin cans three-fourths full of the above mixture of vegetables and cereals. Make a smooth paste of one-half pound of wheat flour and blend in 5 gallons of soup stock. Boil 3 minutes and add 4 ounces salt. Pour this stock over vegetables and fill cans. Partially seal glass jars. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize 110 minutes if using the hot-water bath outfit; 90 minutes if using a water-seal or a 5-pound steam pressure outfit; 55 minutes if using a pressure-cooker outfit. (Check list of necessary supplies.) 1/4 pound lima or navy beans. 1 pound rice. 1/2 pound pearl barley. 1 pound carrots. 1 pound onions. 1 medium-sized potato. 1 red pepper. ' ? pound Hour. 1 ounces salt. 5 gallons soup stock. Bean So tip. Soak 3 pounds of beans 12 hours in cold water. Cut 2 pounds of ham meat into % inch cubes and place in a small sack. Place the beans, ham, and 4 gallons of water in a kettle and boil slowly until the beans are very soft. Remove the ham and beans from the liquor and mash the beans fine. Return the bam and mashed beans to the liquor and add 5 gallons of soup stock and seasoning, and bring to boil. Fill into glass jars and tin cans while hot. Partially seal glass jars. (Seal tin cans.) Process  2 hours if using a hot-water bath outfit: 110 minutes if using a water-seal outfit; 90 minutes if using a 5-pound steam pressure outfit; 70 minutes if using a pressure-cooker outfit. (Check list.) 5 gallons stock. 3 pounds beans. 2 poilu's lean ham. 4 gallons water. Salt and pepper to taste. Tomato Pulp for Cream of Tomato Soup. Place tomatoes in a wire basket or piece of cheesecloth and plunge into boiling water from 1 to 3 minutes. Plunge into cold water. Remove the skin and core. Place tomatoes in a kettle and boil 30 minutes. Pass the tomato pulp through a sieve. Pack in glass jars and tin cans while hot, and add a level teaspoonful GUIDE LESSONS. 411 of salt per quart. Partially seal the glass jars. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize 25 minutes if using a hot-water bath outfit; 20 minutes if using a water-seal or a 5-pound steam-pressure outfit; 18 minutes if using a pressure-cooker outfit. Cream of Tomato Soup from Canned Tomato Pulp. Place 1 quart of tomato pulp in a kettle. Add one-eighth teaspoonful of baking soda, pepper and salt to taste, 2 tablespoonfuls of granulated sugar. Boil for 7 minutes. Place 1 quart of mi}k and 2 tablespoonfuls of butter in another kettle and simmer for 7 minutes. Add the contents of the tomato kettle to the contents of the milk kettle and boil for 5 minutes. The product is then ready to serve. (Check list.) 1 quart can tomato pulp. Two teaspoonful baking soda. 2 teaspoon uls granulated sugar. 1 quart milk. 2 tablespoonfuls butter. Salt and pepper to taste. Chicken-Soup Stock. Place 30 pounds chicken in 10 gallons of cold water and simmer for 5 hours. Remove meat and bones, then strain. Add sufficient water to make 10 gallons of stock. Fill glass jars or tin cans with the hot stock. Partially seal glass jars. (Seal tin cans.) Process  110 minutes if using a hot-water bath outfit; 90 minutes if using a water-seal outfit; 70 minutes if using a 5- pound steam-pressure outfit; 55 minutes if using a pressure-cooker outfit. This stock is used to make soup where the term "chickensoup stock" is employed. (Check list.) 30 pounds chicken. 10 gallons water. Vegetables (Mixed) without Stock. Many people would like vegetable soup during the winter season, but find it impracticable to secure the soup stock during the summer season when the vegetables are so abundant that they are rotting in the garden. It is suggested that the vegetable portion of the soup be canned during the summer and made available when the soup stock is prepared during the winter. It makes the preparation of the soup a simple matter whenever the stock is available. Soak 6 pounds of lima or navy beans and 4 pounds of dry peas over night. Boil each l/2 hour. Blanch 16 pounds of carrots, 6 pounds of cabbage, 3 pounds of celery, 6 pounds of 
 turnips, 4 pounds of okra, 1 pound of onions, and 4 pounds of parsley for 3 minutes and dip in cold water quickly. Prepare the vegetables and chip them into small cubes. Chop the onions and celery extra fine. .Mix all of the vegetables together thoroughly and season to taste. Tack in glass jars or tin cans. Fill with boiling water. Partially seal glass jars. (Seal tin cans.) Process  110 minutes if using a hot-water bath outfit: 75 minutes if using a water-seal outfit or a 5-pound steam-pressure outfit: 55 minutes ii using a pressure-cooker outfit. (Check list.) 16 pounds carrots (small.) 6 pounds cabbage. 3 pounds celery stems and leaves. 6 pounds turnips. C) pounds lima or navy beans. 4 pounds okra. 1 pound onions. 4 pounds parsley. 4 pounds dry peas. Salt and pepper to taste. MEAT CANNING RECIPES. Poultry and Game. Recipe No. 1 Kill fowl and draw at once; wash carefully and cool; cut into convenient sections. Place in wire basket or cheesecloth and boil until meat can be removed from bones. Remove from boiling liquid and remove meat from bones; pack closely into glass jars: fill jars with pot liquid, after it has been concentrated one-half; add level teaspoonful of salt per quart of meat, for seasoning; put rubber and cap in position, not tight: sterilize the length of time given below for the one particular type of outfit you are using: Water bath, homemade or commercial 4 hrs Water seal. 214 4 5 pounds steam pressure 3 10-15 pounds steam pressure 14 " Remove jars; tighten covers: invert to cool and test the joint: wrap jars with paper to prevent bleaching. Recipe No. 2  Kill fowl and draw at once; wash carefully and cool; cut into convenient sections and pack at once into glass jars: fill with boiling water; add level teaspoonful of salt per quart; put rubber and cap in position, not tight, and sterilize the length of time given below for the one particular type of outfit you are using: GUIDE LESSONS. 413 Water bath, homemade or commercial 4]A hrs. Water seal, 214F  5 pounds steam pressure 4 " 10-15 pounds steam pressure Remove jars; tighten covers; invert to cool and test the joint; wrap with paper to prevent bleaching. Fresh Beef. As soon as beef has been killed, cook quickly and keep cool for about 24 hours. Cut the beef into convenient pieces for handling-, about three-fourths pound in weight, and roast or boil slowly for one-half hour. Cut into small pieces, remove gristle, bone, and excessive fat, and pack directly into glass jars; fill with gravy from the roastingpan, or pot liquid, concentrated to one-half its volume; put rubber and cap in position, not tight, and sterilize the length of time given below for the one particular type of outfit you are using: Water bath, homemade or commercial Al/2 hrs. Water seal, 214 5 pounds steam pressure 10-15 pounds steam pressure 2 Remove jars; tighten covers; invert to cool and test the joint; wrap jars with paper to prevent bleaching. LESSON II. REMODELING CLOTHING. The points to consider in all remodeling and remaking are: (1) Is the article worth remodeling? (It does not always pay to make over old clothes). (2) If so how cant be done with the least expenditure of time and money? If an article is not very much out of date it can often be rendered wearable by the addition of a new yoke, new sleeves, fresh collar and cuffs, or the lengthening of a skirt. Nothing in styles changes more rapidly than the sleeve, and often altering sleeves or adding new ones is all that is necessary to bring a dress up to date. Common alterations are: (1) Changing style of sleeve. To make sleeves smaller, use a smaller pattern and cut over. To make larger add an underarm or a piece under a tuck, or put a piece of trimming lengthwise ever the seam. If you do the latter, bring the seam in upper part of sleeve near back of arm. At the present time sleeves are often 
 made of a different material than the rest of the dress and so new sleeves may easily be added. Sleeves may he lengthened by the addition of a cuff, or the lower part of sleeve may he joined to the upper just below elbow with a tuck or band of trimming. (2) Lengthening skirt. Put a false hem on. or if more length is desired baste a tuck, in bottom of skirt and set lower part under, stitching tuck and piece to skirt at the same time. Very often a hem of different material may be added, serving as a trimming as well as lengthening the skirt. Garments of wash material (3) may be lengthened Narrowing by Decide a skirt. bands of how insertion or braid. many inches are to be taken out and at what places it can best be done. Take from the back edge of gores running off to seam  if skirt is fitted at bins | six inches below hip line. Full skirts may be recut into narrow ones. (4) Altering waists. A waist may be lengthened by a 'ding a belt between waist and skirt. Wash waists which have become worn alunite collar or wrists and are not worth a new collar or cuffs can be utilized by cutting away torn parts and wearing with a Dutch collar in summer. Sit eves can be cut short if de sired and finished with a suitable edge. When waists are worn underneath the arm and are worth it. rip the sleeves at armhole and underarm seams and replace with new pieces. GARMENTS DECIDEDLY OUT-OF-DATE. If a garment is decidedly out of style, the best thing to do is to rip it. mend if necessary, clean and press thoroughly and remake. When overskirts are popular and dresses are made of a combination of materials as at present, old dresses can readily be made into up-to-date ones. Half worn clothing can very often be made into dresses, suits and coats for small boys and girls. Very often the materials in such garments will be much better grade than one can afford to buy for children. It is important that all materials be thoroughly cleaned before being: remade. Discarded clothing of no other value can be washed, cut in strips and woven into rugs, or given to the ward Relief Society. CARE AND REPAIR OF CLOTHING AND MM. I [NERY. Ruskin says. ''Clothes carefully cared for and rightly worn, show a balance of mind and self-respect." The girl who wishes to appear well dressed and properly gowned will not neglect the little things that and to the freshness and durability of her clothing. The little attentions, such as replacing a hook, fastening a button, removing spots, brushing care GUIDE LESSONS. 415 fully, pressing, hanging on hangers adapted to the article, replacing" soiled collars and cuffs by fresh ones, airing and folding along seams as near as possible, take but a few minutes if done promptly, and keep the wardrobe in good order. SUGGESTIONS. Keep coats, waists, and dresses, on coat hangers, and skirts on the kind that will keep the bands straight. Air clothing when it is removed at night, and wear a different set to sleep in. If moist clothing is thrown around in heaps or tossed into a dark corner of a closet or trunk, it can never appear fresh again unless it can be laundered. The wearing of clothes is not what tells so sadly upon them, but the manner in which they are cared for. A few garments nicely made, well fitted and properly cared for are preferable to twice the number of inferior quality and make. Waists in reserve may be kept in bureau drawers or boxes. They should first be carefully followed and if fancy, the sleeves and bows stuffed with tissue paper. a Good gowns if hung in dosets should have cover bags slipped over them. Skirts and coats with bias seams are not improved by hanging, as the bias part are apt to stretch out of place. All steel pins should be removed from clothing, even if it is put away for just one night, as the least dampness may cause rust spots. Pressing adds much to the appearance and durability of a suit or skirt, as well as to the comfort of the wearer. Press with a hot iron and damp cloth on the right side over a thick pad until nearly dry; then turn the garment on the wrong side and press dry Woolen goods will mark or shine if pressed without a cloth, and the texture of silk materials will be injured if the iron is permitted to get too hot. FOOTWEAR. Care of shoes and rubbers.  It is better to have two pairs of shoes and alternate in wearing them. The pair not in use should be kept on shoe trees or something improvised to keep them stretched. A good' polish keeps the shoes looking neat an I preserves the leather. When shoes get wet the thread rots and soles separate; rubbers will protect them. These will last a longtime with a little care. Wash them promptly after wearing. Do not let mud dry on them nor leave them in direct sunlight or near heaters, as heat spoils and mud rots them. Soft paper stuffed into heels and toes keens them in good shape. Adhesive plaster or a few stitches will help if they become torn or split at the sides. PACKING AWAY. 1 Care of clothing between seasons.  All clothing for the season should be carefully brushed, cleaned, repaired and put away RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. in tight cotton bags, boxes or packages. If these are plainly labeled with their contents, time will be saved when they are needed. Woolen articles should receive a goad sun bath and careful inspection for possible traces of moths. Gum camphor, black pepper, tobacco leaves and tar paper are some of the preventatives that can be used in packing clothes away. Garments that are outgrown should be disposed of. In folding lay the articles on a flat, large surface and fold on the seams if possible. paying particular attention to sleeves and collars. Coat lapels should be turned to lie flat, collars turned up, and the coat folded through the center seam. Summer clothing should be clean an I -monthly folded. Blue tissue paper is said to prevent white materials from turning yellow. COLORED MATERIALS. Care of Colored Clothes Before Hashing.  It pays to set colors before laundering. For blue, use one-half cup of vinegar and one teaspoonful of salt to a pail of cold water. Lavenders may be set with a teaspoonful of sugar of lead to a pail of cold water. Links and blacks may be treated with salt, two cups to a pail of cold water, rinks, lavenders, reds, creams, yellows, in fact nearly ai' colored materials should be allowed to soak several hours before washing. Renovating and Cleaning of Clothing.  Never attempt to make over and clean clothes unless the material is good enough to make it worth while to do the work well. Faded materials may he freshened by cleaning and dyeing, but directions should be carefully followed in the selection of dyes and the process involved. STAINS. Stains may be removed easily while fresh. Fruit stains may be removed by pouring boiling water from a height of a foot or two through the fabric stretched over a basin. Ink stains may be remove 1 by squeezing the cloth out of milk, treating with warm water, or with a paste of uncooked starch and milk. Iron rust may be removed from linen and cotton by using lemon juice and salt. Grease spots may be removed with a good soap and hot water, or if the material will not stand laundering, it may be treated with absorbents such as French chalk, magnesia powder, or blotting paper and a hot iron. If the iron affects the goods, it should be held above it, not permitted to come in direct contact. Blood stains may be removed by making a paste of starch an 1 applying it to the spot. It may be necessary to repeat the process several times. When solvents arc used they should be the purest and best. Use enough to thoroughly cleanse the article. Benzine. line, naphtha and the explosive solvents should be kept away