[Vol56 | June 1969 | Page 449 | General Feature | Cultural Refinement Lessons Bruce | B. Clark]
[Cultural Refinement Lessons Bruce B. Clark]

In a flowering meadow, I had heard half a hundred hummingbirds in silvery fluted notes—music unforgettable. 446 Springtime ls for the Birds Claire Noall Transparencies by the author But, now, to my amusement, I found the ruby-throated hummingbird perfectly demonstrating the instinctive struggle for the survival of the fittest. Hummingbirds: one, two, three— nature's gift of jewelled flight to the watcher with a camera in his hand. "ADVICE TO A YOUNG ARTIST"' by Honoré Daumier National Gallery of Art, Washington, D. C. Gift of Duncan Phillips For use with Cultural Refinement Lesson 3—The Problem of Communication Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, January 1970—Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 Commentary on page 450. a. Ek?)

CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 1—The Meaning of Freedom Dr. Robert K. Thomas Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 5 Community Responsibility, Section One By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas 'My soul standeth fast in that liberty in the which God hath made us free.'' _The Book of Mormon (Al. 61:9.) Northern Hemisphere: Fourth Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 OBJECTIVE: To make clear that the free agency of man—his right to choose—is at the base of all meaningful liberty. MUSIC. Bianik" from Ma Viast (My Fatherland) by Bedrich Smetana (1824-1884) Commentary on musical selection by Clawson Cannon, Assistant Dean of College of Fine Arts, Brigham Young University. Through the ages as men have striven to be "... Free forever, knowing good from evil; to act for themselves and not to be acted upon." (2 Ne. 3:26) they have yearned for personal and political freedoms. In the great nationalistic movements of the 19th century, artists, writers, and musicians did not really reflect the conditions of their time as much as they wrote on what they wished conditions were to be. Bedrich Smetana, in his later life, composed a series of six tone poems that beautifully expressed his love and hopes for his country. "The Moldau" is the best known of the six. It is a musical description of the mighty river by that name which flows through the land. "Blanik" is the final poem of the series, it paints the hill located in the mid-southern region of Bohemia around which an old legend is built—a legend that tells of sleeping knights that will awaken to serve the country in time of need. Smetana has used as a theme for this work the old Hussite hymn, Ye Are the Warriors of God. He wrote, "On the basis of this melody will develop the resurrection of the Czech people, its future happiness and glory." 554 INTRODUCTION TO LITERATURE LESSON At its most basic level, man's freedom to choose, his "agency" is fundamental to all that he does. We are told in 2 Ne. 2:26 that the redemption of Christ makes men "... Free forever, knowing good from evil; to act for themselves and not to be acted upon." The selections which we are considering this month help us appreciate the range of choices we can exercise in establishing meaningful concepts of liberty. "THE HIND AND THE PANTHER" John Dryden's lines from his long poem entitled "The Hind and the Panther" emphasize the danger of trying to coerce others into a belief which matches our own: The Hind and the Panther Of all the tyrannies of human kind The worst is that which persecutes the mi