[Vol56 | June 1969 | Page 412 | Special Feature | The Standard Works of the Church Marion | G. Romney]
And all things that he spake have The Standard Works of the Church been and shall be, even according to the words which he spake. Therefore give heed to my words; write the things which [ have told you; and according to the time and the will of the Father they shall go forth unto the Gentiles. And whosoever will hearken unto my words and repenteth and is_ baptized, the same shall be saved. Search the prophets, for many there be that testify of these things. (3 Nephi 23:1-5.) No one of our standard works is of more importance to us than the Doctrine and Covenants. The revelations there recorded were specifically given for our guldance. The degree to which we conform to the law of heaven prescribed therein, will determine our place in the heavenly kingdom. Under these circumstances, it would seem that Relief Society sisters, and every other believing Church member, would desire to follow the Lord's directions to: Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. (D&C 1:37.) Treasure these things up in your hearts, and let the solemnities of eternity rest upon your minds. (D&C 43:34.) In numberless hues, IDENTITY Who am I? Only my Heavenly Father knows, For he created my spirit, and knew my intelligence. What am I? Again, he alone knows, now; But he desires that I learn To comprehend myself. This requires eternity. I could become a unique source Of infinite responses to truth. Why am I? A prism needed Through which truth may shine That beauty and joy may be embodied. —Margaret B.

standard works of the Church because it is a little more diffcult to maintain interest in sustained reading unless one has a definite objective in his reading, such as theological. There is relatively no narrative in the Doctrine and Covenants. The exception to this is Section 135, the historical account of the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum at Carthage Jail 125 years ago. I presume that it would not be amiss to suggest an exaggerated comparison of the Doctrine and Covenants and reading the dictionary—in both, there is statement after statement of truths not always connected with the preceding information. This fact, however, has its advantages. One does not have to look very far to find rich, inspiring thoughts. Also, one must concentrate on his reading in order not to miss salient principles. Years ago I realized that many members of the Church might find difficulty in keeping up their interest in reading the Doctrine and Covenants, so I conceived the idea that this book could be enjoyed more and learned better, perhaps, through the commentaries of the prophets, seers, and revelators of the dispensation. With this and other purposes in mind, I set out to compile such a work, using the sermons and writings of the members of the First Presidencies, Twelve Apostles, and the Patriarchs to the Church to explain