[Vol56 | June 1969 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Hobby Features— Alice Robinson Holyoak and Tillie Anderson Staples]
427  Hobby  Features— Alice  Robinson  Holyoak  and  Tillie  Anderson  Staples 
442  The  Art  of  Bread  Clay     Myrene  Alvord 
445  Candies  of  Excellence     Dorothy  J.  Roberts 
446  Springtime  Is  for  the  Birds     Claire  Noall 
Lesson  Department 
465    Homemaking— Garden  Convenience  and  Safety     Celestia  J.  Taylor 
Previews  for  1969-1970 
467  Spiritual  Living  Lessons     Roy  W.  Doxey 
469  Visiting  Teacher  Messages     Alice  Colton  Smith 
471  Homemaking  Discussions     Celestia  J.  Taylor 
473  Social  Relations  Lessons     Alberta  H.  Chnstensen 
475  Cultural  Refinement  Lessons     Bruce  B.  Clark 
449  "The  Girl  in  White"  by  Julian  Alden  Weir     Floyd  E.  Brienholt 
450  "Advice  To  a  Young  Artist"  by  Honre  Daumier     Floyd  E.  Brienholt 
Poetry 
401    An  Hour  For  Listening     Peggy  Tangren 
Identity,   Margaret  B.   Jorgensen  411;   June   Night,   Beulah   Huish  Sadleir  450;    Freedom,    Vesta 
Fairbairn  456;  The  Lilt  of  a  Lark,  Pearle  M.  Olson  466;  Suddenly  Aware,  Ins  W.  Schow  478. 
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints©  1969 
by  the  Relief  Society  General  Board  Association.  Editorial  and  Business  Office;  76  North  Main  Street,  Salt  Lake  City.  Utah  84111; 
Phone  364-2511:  Subscription  Price  $2.00  a  year;  foreign.  $2.00  a  year;  20«  a  copy,  payable  in  advance.  The  Magazine  is  not 
sent  after  subscription  expires.  No  back  numbers  can  be  supplied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies  will  be  missed.  Report 
change  of  address  at  once,  giving  old  and  new  address.  Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18.  1914.  at  the  Post  Office, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under  the  Act  of  March  3,  1879,  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided  for  in  section 
1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned  unless  return  postage  is  enclosed. 
Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only.  The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manuscripts 
403

^;^2^  (^^^^^^^fe^;;!^^ 
Emma  Ray  Riggs  McKay 
June  23,  1969 
■  The  General  Board  of  Relief  Society,  on  behalf  of  the  world-wide 
sisterhood  of  the  Church,  takes  this  opportunity  to  wish  a  happy 
ninety-second  birthday  to  Sister  Emma  Ray  Riggs  McKay,  the  wife 
of  our  Prophet,  David  O.  McKay. 
In  the  only  revelation  given  directly  to  one  of  his  daughters,  Emma 
Smith,  the  Lord  said:  "For  my  soul  delighteth  in  the  song  of  the  heart; 
yea  the  song  of  the  righteous  is  a  prayer  unto  me  .  .  ."  (D.&C.  25:12). 
Sister  McKay  has  taken  these  words  to  Emma  Smith  into  her  own 
life,  and  has  made  music  an  integral  part  of  the  cultural  aspect  of  her 
home,  being  an  accomplished  pianist  herself. 
It  is  no  accident  that  the  children  of  President  and  Sister  McKay 
love  music,  for  this  love  was  instilled  in  them  from  early  childhood. 
Often  when  the  children  were  young,  they  now  recall.  Sister  McKay 
sang  to  them  by  the  stove  in  the  dining  room,  and  there  were  always 
lullabies  at  bedtime.  The  family  always  enjoyed  gathering  around 
the  piano  while  Mother  played,  and  each  was  given  the  opportunity 
to  learn  to  play  musical  instruments,  and  all  were  encouraged  to 
develop  an  appreciation  for  good  music. 
Sister  McKay  loves  good  and  great  music.  Her  favorite  of  the 
masterworks  is  "The  Messiah" — that  magnificent  telling  in  music 
of  the  life  of  the  Savior,  the  prophecies  of  his  coming,  and  the  eternal 
message  of  the  gospel. 
"A  silent  home,"  says  Sister  McKay,  "is  a  dull,  sad  place,  and 
leads  to  melancholy.  Music  is  soul  inspiring,  and  no  money  is  thrown 
away  for  musical  instruments.  Many  an  hour  may  be  spent  delight- 
fully if  daughter  plays  the  piano,  accompanying  a  brother  violinist 
and  a  brother  playing  the  clarinet  or  flute,  or  what  you  will. 
"Many  a  mother  nearly  distracted  by  a  fretful  child  has  been 
able  to  soothe  him  by  softly  singing  a  song  to  him.  Tt  is  said  that 
when  Napolean  exploded  into  one  of  his  ungovernable  furies,  Jo- 
sephine was  wont  to  play  for  him.'  Singing  by  the  whole  family  to- 
gether is  great  fun  and  a  great  help  to  a  beautiful  home  .  .  .  ." 
Sisters  throughout  the  Church  would  do  well  to  follow  the  exam- 
ple of  Sister  McKay  in  making  music  an  important  part  of  the 
home  life  of  their  families. 
Throughout  this  coming  year,  may  she  enjoy  the  rich  blessings 
of  good  health  and  happiness  which  she  so  richly  deserves,  and 
may  her  birthday  be  one  of  joyful  association  with  those  whom  she 
loves. 
405