[Vol56 | June 1969 | Page 420 | General Feature | Editorial— the 139th Annual General | Church Conference]
[Editorial— the 139th Annual General Church Conference]
Reid, Republican, Illinois; Martha W. Griffiths, Democrat, Michigan; Lenor K. Sullivan, Democrat, Missouri: Margaret Heckler, Republican, Massachusetts; Florence P. Dwyer, Republican, New Jersey; Shirley Chisholm, Democrat, New York: Edith Green, Democrat, Oregon; Catherine May, Republican, Washington; Julia Butler Hansen, Democrat, Washington— these ten are women United States Representatives, among a total of 432 Representatives. Several nations that have enjoyed democratic government for far fewer years than America, are far better represented by women in political life than is the United States. 420 Welcome the Task Michele Bartmess as told by Annette Giles Chapter 8 (Conclusion) @ Jennifer had to wait two additional weeks to find out what Jim's very important question that he had to have an answer to was. He had not been too happy when she had turned down his invitation to the dance, however when he arrived he was all smiles and confidence. Instinctively, Jennifer knew that she was going to be faced with the most important decision of her lifetime. She felt strangely calm. "Jenny," he began. She tried not to appear too eager.: "Do you love me?" It was a direct question, and one she had not quite expected. "T—I'm fond of you, Jim," she said truthfully. "Fond enough to marry me?" he pressed on eagerly. She hadn't expected it to be quite that sudden. Before she could answer, he pursued the subject. "Ill soon have my law degree and a good position. I love you Jenny, and I want to give you the world, and I'll be able to, you know that." He talked on about the wonderful places they would go and the things they would see together, his handsome face flushed, his blue eyes eager, but Jennifer was only half hearing him. Somehow this wasn't the marriage proposal she had dreamed of all her life. The setting was right. It was a warm May evening; They were sitting on a _ rock overlooking the valley, towards the lake. A slight spring breeze was wafting the smell of newly blooming roses across the air. Of course Jim would take her to the temple, that was simply a foregone conclusion, and if he wanted her for his wife, surely that meant the mother of his children, although this hadn't been mentioned. The things he was mentioning now were things she had not considered too important. Membership in the country club would be nice, but it wasn't a basis for a successful marriage, and money alone would not buy happiness. When he finished, she sensed that he was awaiting her affirmative answer. Suddenly the selfassurance she had so admired in him annoyed her just a little. She finally answered, "I'm in no position to get married right now, Jim." _ His tone was authoritative. "Jenny, you have to think of yourself sometime. You have given your family your whole life for close to a year.

EDITORIAL/ The 139th Annual @ The 139th Annual General Conference of the Church was held in the historic Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, April 4, 5, and 6, 1969. Of particular significance this year was that Easter Sunday, April 6th occurred upon the same day as the commemoration of the founding of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, April 6, 1830. In a time of the radiant return of springtime weather, and in a setting of blossoms, the Conference placed a pervading emphasis upon the mission of the Savior and ''the greatest event that has ever taken place in the history of mortal man—the resurrection of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Creator of the world, who came and gave his life for us and was resurrected."' It was reported that the membership of the Church at the close of 1968 reached 2,684,073—revealing the great momentum of the gospel message. The stakes and missions of the Church, the wards and branches continue to increase in numbers and in faithfulness to the Lord and service to mankind, with a remembrance and an active devotion to the work of salvation for the dead. Officers and saints from every continent attended the Conference. Thousands of priesthood holders throughout the United States and Canada listened to the special priesthood meeting from the Tabernacle by closed circuit. Other sessions were carried by video tape over a blanket of radio and television stations throughout the world. Translators were busy ''broadcasting the words of counsel as they came from the speakers."' By means of modern communication facilities, the messages of conference were delivered to individuals and congregations throughout the world, and the saints enjoyed a unity of rejoicing. From his home nearby, President David O. McKay, in his ninety-sixth year, presided at all the sessions of Conference, and his addresses were read by his sons Robert McKay and David Lawrence McKay. In his address at the opening session on Friday morning, President McKay stressed the importance of home and family in the strengthening of individuals and in the righteousness of nations. Volume 56 June 1969 Number 6 Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor 418 General Church Conference An essential, fundamental element in the building and in the perpetuity of a great people is the home. The strength of a nation, especially of a republican nation, Is in the intelligent and well-ordered homes of the people. In the well-ordered home, we may experience on earth a taste of heaven. It is there that the babe in a mother's caress first experiences a sense of security; finds in the mother's kiss the first realization of affection; discovers in mother's sympathy and tenderness, the first assurance that there is love in the world. The exalted view of marriage as held by the Church is given expressively in five words found in the 49th section of the Doctrine and Covenants: ''Marriage is ordained of God." It is said that the best and noblest lives are those which are set toward high ideals. Truly no higher ideal regarding marriage can be cherished by young people than to look upon it as a divine institution. In the minds of the young, such a standard Is a protection to them in courtship, an ever-present influence inducing them to refrain from doing anything which may prevent their going to the temple to have their love comsummated in an enduring and eternal union. President McKay's great love for the saints and his concern for their welfare both during the time of earth life and in the long milleniums of eternity, were evidenced in his closing address in which he gave a blessing and offered comfort and direction: _. With truth as our guide, our companion, our ally, our inspiration, we may tingle with the consciousness of our kinship with the Infinite, and all the petty trials, sorrows, and sufferings of this life will fade away as temporary, harmless visions seen in a dream. Today as we commemorate the coming forth from the tomb of the crucified Lord, I bear my testimony to you and to all the world that The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints accepts the resurrection not only as being real, but as the consummation of Christ's divine mission on earth. I know with my whole soul that as Christ lives after death, so shall all men, each taking his place in the next world for which he has best fitted himself. God bless you in your individual lives, in your home life, in your Church activities, and give you the comfort that comes to every soul who loses himself for Christ's sake, I pray in the name of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, Amen. GENERAL BOARD: Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S$. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucille P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Mayola R. Miltenberger Maurine M. Haycock 419 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. Belle Smith Spafford of Salt Lake City, Utah, General President of the Relief Society, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was a guest of honor Friday night, April 11, 1969, at the 50th anniversary dinner of the New York League of Business and Professional Women's Clubs. Mrs. Spafford, President of the National Council of Women of the United States, congratulated the league on its fifty years of existence. Flora Amussen Benson, wife of Elder Ezra Taft Benson, of the Council of the Twelve, was selected ''Woman of the Year'' at Ricks College, Rexburg, Idaho, March 25, 1969, and was presented with the Distinguished Achievement Award "'in recognition of an outstanding example of womanhood."' She spoke at the Annual Mothers-and-Daughters Day on the campus to some 2,000 people. Elder Benson was present with Sister Benson at the meeting and in the evening he addressed the student body. Both Elder and Sister Benson spoke to the missionary language school at Ricks. Sister Benson's citation reads, in part: ''As a youth your positions of responsible leadership, education, participation in drama, athletics, and music, aspirations for high ideals, and real determination have helped prepare and shape your character into an outstanding epitome of womanliness. As a mother, your domestic interests and values have demonstrated themselves in your prayerful dedication to home and children. Your faith, spirituality, foresight, and encouragement are attributes which have characterized you as a charming and devoted wife...."' Marlene Telford Lundahl, a Latter-day Saint, and mother of nine children, is manager of designing, promotion, and sales of the Jer Marai Lingerie Company, a multi-million dollar firm in California. Her husband, Gerald Lundahl, had received his M. D. Degree and completed his internship when he was stricken with polio. Marlene kept the family going and the business progressing. After his recovery from paralysis, but still being unable to practice medicine, Dr. Lundahl became a full-time partner with his wife and took charge of the technical aspects of manufacturing. Margaret Chase Smith, Republican, Maine, remains the only woman among fifty-seven United States Senators in the ninety-first Congress. A member of the House of Representatives in 1940, and successively for ten years, she has been a Senator ever since. She feels that a woman president of the United States would run the Government on a strict budget as a good housewife manages a home. Denied a college education through circumstances, her intelligence and ability have been recognized by the bestowal of thirty-six honorary degrees. Patsy Takemoto Mink, Democrat, Hawaii: Charlotte T.