[Vol56 | June 1969 | Page 473 | General Feature | Homemaking Discussions Celestia | J. Taylor]
Homemaking Development Through Homemaking Education— Woman's Role in Family Preparedness Preview of Discussions—1969-70 Celestia J. Taylor From the very beginning of this dispensation of the restoration of the gospel, our Church leaders have never ceased to admonish and advise us to maintain and provide for our families, not only in times of prosperity and plenty, but also in times of need and emergency. With the world in a turmoil of uncertainty and confusion, it is of greater importance than ever before that we heed the counsel of our leaders and prepare our homes so that our families will be provided for in any emergency which might, and very well could, arise. For this reason, the following course of study has been worked out for our homemaking discussions. Discussion 1—''She Looketh Well to the Ways of Her Household."' (Prov. 31:27.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 Objective: To show the need for family preparedness and the role of the Latter-day Saint woman in achieving it. Discussion 2—''She Perceiveth That Her Merchandise Is Good: Her Candle Goeth Not Out By Night."' (Prov. 31:18.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 Objective: To show that buying wisely and saving regularly are basic to good money management. 

471 June 1969

 Discussion 3—''The Heart of Her Husband Doth Safely Trust in Her, So That He Shall Have No Need For Spoil.'' (Prov. 31:11.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 Objective: To recognize that debt must be controlled to insure family happiness and financial security. Discussion 4—''She Considereth a Field and Buyeth It: With the Fruit of Her Hands She Planteth a Vineyard.'' (Prov. 31:16.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 Objective: To point out the woman's responsibility in planning and managing a successful family budget. Discussion 5—''She... Worketh Willingly With Her Hands." (Prov. 31:13.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 Objective: To alert the Latter-day Saint woman to the wisdom of preparing for family security through home storage of foods. Discussion 6—''She Is Not Afraid of the Snow for Her Household: For All Her Household Are Clothed With Scarlet. (Prov. 31:21.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 Objective: To alert the Latter-day Saint woman to the wisdom of preparing for family security through home storage of basic items other than food. Discussion 7—''Her Children Arise Up, and Call Her Blessed; Her Husband Also, ie He Praiseth Her."' (Prov. 31:28.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: September 1970 Objective: To point out the mother's role in adequately preparing herself and her children through education and training. Discussion 8—''She Stretcheth Out Her Hands to the Poor; Yea, She Reacheth Forth Her Hands to the Needy."' (Prov. 31:20.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere: October 1970 Objective: To show that compassionate service is part of each woman's role in the welfare program. DISCUSSIONS FOR SUMMER MONTHS June—''He That Gathereth in Summer Is a Wise Son: But He That Sleepeth in Harvest Is a Son That Causeth Shame."' (Prov. 10:5.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, June 1970 Southern Hemisphere: November 1970 Objective: To point out to the Latter-day Saint woman appropriate utilization of available foods. July—The Art of Cooking From the Storage Closet.. Eat Thou Honey, Because It Is Good; and the Honeycomb, Which! S Sweet to Thy Taste.'' (Prov. 24:13.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, July 1970 Southern Hemisphere: December 1970 Objective: To show various uses of wheat, honey, and molasses in cooking. 472 Lesson Previews August—The Art of Cooking From the Storage Closet (Cont.) 'Behold, the Lord Requireth the Heart and a Willing Mind; and the Willing and Obedient Shall Eat the Good of the Land in These Last Days.' (D&C 64:34.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, August 1970 Southern Hemisphere: January 1971 Objective: To alert the Latter-day Saint woman to the need for and the use of products rich in protein in her family storage plan. September—The Mechanics of Food Storage "For the Earth Is Full, and There Is Enough and to Spare; Yea, I prepared All Things, and Have Given Unto the Children of Men to Be Agents Unto Themselves.'' (D&C 104:17.) Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, September 1970 Southern Hemisphere: February 1971 Objective: To point out that a storage plan can be started regardless of space or circumstances. NOTE: A demonstration would be given in July and August and recipes furnished. A SOCIAL RELATIONS Immortality and Eternal Life Preview of Lessons 1969-70 Alberta H. Christensen As we approach the 1969-70 social relations lessons, based again upon the writings of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., we recall the words of Lord Byron: But words are things; and a small drop of ink, Falling like dew, upon a thought, produces That which makes thousands, perhaps millions, think. During the coming year we shall be concerned with words—motivating, thought-evoking words which may inspire thousands of Latter-day Saint women throughout the world. During the years of President Clark's membership in the First Presidency of the Church, April 1933-October 1961, he delivered numerous addresses to graduating university students, to Church auxiliary organizations, at general Church conferences and elsewhere. In these addresses many principles of the gospel were impressively clarified and truths fundamental in constructive, righteous living became beckoning roads for the listeners to follow. Some of these addresses preserved in written form constitute the Melchizedek Priesthood course of study for 1969-70. The companion Relief Society lessons will again correlate with a number of them. Ques- 

473 June 1969

 tions important as the following are among those to be considered in the social relations lessons: Is restraint really the road to freedom? How are our everyday activities influenced by the immutable laws of the universe? How important is work in achieving personal happiness? How does the role of woman relating to the eternal plan of creation place her in a position of honor? How may a mother's knowledge of the ultimate destiny of the family unit influence her attitude toward what otherwise might seem merely housewife routine? What would be included in the inherent upward reach of man? In some cases the correlation with the Melchizedek Priesthood course of study will be very close and the words of President Clark will be quoted frequently. This will give the Relief Society women an opportunity to feel the spirit and individuality of President Clark's writings. In other cases significant statements made by President Clark will form the basis for a lesson channeled more specifically to a woman's everyday world. The emphasis thus will be on a woman's relationship to her Father in heaven, to herself, and to her family, with some consideration of neighborhood situations. We remind class leaders that. The introduction to each lesson should be a helpful guide in their lesson preparation. They are urged also to make full use of the involvement suggestions so that class members will be motivated to think and to participate actively in the discussion of gospel principles and human behavior situations being considered. Lesson 1—Restraint—Road to Freedom, Part 1 Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 Objective: To point out a mother's opportunity to teach the need and benefits of complying with the restraints of the immutable laws of the universe. Lesson 2—Restraint—Road to Freedom, Part 2 Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 Objective: To point out that understanding the difference between immutable spiritual and physical laws and the regulations which apply to them, may influence one's attitude toward the regulations. Lesson 3—The Upward Reach - Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 Objective: To illustrate that all may enjoy man's material progress but our spiritual achievements must be individually attained. Lesson 4—Work—A Road to Personal Fulfillment Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 Objective: To emphasize the value of work in meeting the requirements of happiness and of divine admonition. 474 Lesson Previews Lesson 5—Be of Good Cheer Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 Objective: To remind the Latter-day Saint woman that the gospel of Christ brings a message of gladness to her home. Lesson 6—A Position of Honor Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 Objective: To point out that the role of woman is essential to the eternal plan of creation and that she therefore occupies a position of honor. Lesson 7—Purpose and Reward Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: September 1970 Objective: To point out that if a Latter-day Saint woman will keep the ultimate destiny of the family unit constantly in mind, she may be purposefully motivated in her daily living. Lesson 8—''Whither Goest Thou?"' Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere: October 1970 Objective: To reemphasize some of the truths in the writings of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., which may influence for good the behavior patterns of our lives. Cultural Refinement Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Preview of Lessons for 1969-70 Bruce B. Clark (Textbook: Out of the Best Books, Volume 5: Community Responsibility, by Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas.) The Cultural Refinement program of lessons using Out of the Best Books as a basic text has now functioned for five years in the Relief Society organization. Volume 5, to be used during 1969-70, will complete the sixth year of what was planned from the beginning as a six-year program. Volume 1, used in 1964-65 and 1965-66, stressed the individual and human values as seen through literature and the related arts. Volumes 2 and 3, used in 1966-67 and 1967-68, widened the horizon, emphasizing ideals and problems in marriage, parenthood, and family relationships. Now the closing two years of the program, Volume 4 for 1968-69 and Volume 5 for 1969-70, widen the scope still further, stressinga woman's activities andresponsibilitiesin community life and the world in which she
