[Vol56 | June 1969 | Page 421 | Fiction | Alice | Morrey Bailey]
[Alice Morrey Bailey]
They 

421 June 1969

 have no right to expect it forever, and you would be a fool to give it to them." "Right now they need me, Jim. They haven't expected anything I haven't been more than willing to give." They mildly argued the point until Jim stood up angrily. "Well, you have a convenient excuse. I'll take you home now." The ride home was a silent one, and Jennifer wondered if he was right. Perhaps she was using her family as an excuse. She only knew that her heart had not been set afire by this young man whom she had once thought would make an ideal husband. As he walked her to the door, she said, "I'm sorry, Jim." He brushed off the hand she had gently placed on his arm. "I'll be back in September to see lf you have changed your mind," he said, and was gone, leaving Jennifer a little hurt and very angry. She worked hard the next two weeks, getting spring housecleaning done. One afternoon her father called her into the den. He expressed his appreciation for all that she had done, and the fine manner in which she had carried on in her mother's footsteps. He reminded her that she had her own life to lead. She assured him that she would and told him that her name was definitely on the summer commencement list. Then he said gently, "Jenny, there is something I want to tell you. Your mother and I talked about this a great deal, and I want you to know that it was she who urged it." 422 Jennifer was puzzled. What could he be driving at? "Someday, you are going to want to marry and have your own family. And well prepared you are going to be, from your experiences here. However, we are not going to be prepared to live without a woman's influence." "Dad, I won't leave until " "Jenny," he stopped her gently, "what I am trying to say ls that I am going to start seeing women—socially." She stared at him speechlessly. How could he even think of such a thing! Oe I e went on more gently. "You see, Jenny, I need companionship and the boys will need a mother. Not. A replacement of your mother, for no one could ever take her place for any of us. But we must go on and live as full a life as possible here on earth. Your mother made me promise this. You see you weren't the only one she was preparing. At the time I had no intention of ever keeping that promise, but time has indicated that she was right." Jennifer listened numbly as he talked, hardly believing it possible. Somehow, she managed to get out of the room without losing her dignity; without letting her hurt and disapproval show through. She went through the motions of preparing, serving, and eating dinner, and finished the dishes. With everyone in the living room, she bolted out of the back door nearly knocking Steve over in her intensity. He took one look, and knew something was upsetting her. "Want to talk about it?" he asked. "No!" she answered shortly. "Mind if I walk along, in case you change your mind?" She did change her mind and he listened patiently. "I think I know how you feel, Jenny. But he has a point. He is a very lonely man. Some men need a good woman at their side. You don't know how hard it is not to share life with a companion. I've often wished Mother had remarried." As they talked, Jennifer began to see some sense in what Steve was saying. She could finally accept the situation, but not without reservations. Each time she suspected her father of having a date she had to fight the rising resentment. Dating! It was preposterous. She and Dave were dating, and Pete occasionally, but their father! She didn't think of the time in Houston when she urged Bea to consider Dick, nor of the terrible loneliness in her father's eyes. Jennifer began to suspect any single woman over twenty-five years old of having designs on her father. When she received a letter from Bea telling her that she would stop in when she and Dean came to Provo to enroll him in the university, Jennifer suspected that it was Charles she really wanted to see, for she had often admired him. When Bea arrived, Jennifer was somewhat cool to_ her mother's cousin and her own dear friend. Bea attributed it to tiredness. The girl had taken on quite a task, surely it would be discouraging at times. Bea drew Welcome the Task the story about Jim from Jennifer. She was amazed at his behavior. "I never thought that selfconfidence of his would get the better of him like that," she said. "I hope he learns a lesson before it is too late." "It was a shock to see him suddenly turn so angry," Jennifer admitted. "I guess I should have told him that I just wasn't in love with him, for if I were, I don't think anything would keep me from his side." "I think he suspected that, Jenny," Bea said wisely. "But a man's pride is indeed a delicate thing." "Yes, I know that. I don't suppose he will come back this September as he threatened to do. It's better left dead, I think." "Oh, he may make one more try. Is Steve still a part of all this?" Jennifer blushed. "I don't know. I haven't really given any of it too much thought. [''m just taking things as they come. By the way, do you still see Dick?" It was Bea's turn to blush, and she did so girlishly. "I thought you would never ask. We're being married at Thanksgiving." Jennifer threw her arms around her. "Oh, I'm so happy for both of you," she said sincerely. "Thank you, Jenny. It is wonderful to have someone care about me again, and to be able to return that love. I feel like a whole woman again, and I know John would want it this way, and the boys are most happy about it." 

423 June 1969

 Jennifer surprised herself by saying, "I hope Dad can find someone to make him happy again." "Yes," Bea said, "it is hard to be alone, especially with children. I don't know what Dick thinks about becoming a stepfather and grandfather at the same time, but he seems to be adjusting well," she laughed. Bea talked on about Dick, her sons, and the precious granddaughter who was growing so fast. Jennifer's thoughts went to Houston on a wave of nostalgia. So much had resulted from that one little trip. Strange, she thought, how life is. CG harles Miles had found the woman who brought the light back into his eyes, and a smile to his lips, and Jennifer had never suspected a thing until he told the family. Nyta Rey had been accompanying him on _ temple trips for nearly six months, and they had been good friends over the years. Jennifer was truly glad. The boys could not have been more pleased, and when Charles brought her. Over, she was blushing like a new bride. We're being married for time in the Manti Temple," Charles explained. Sam hugged her and smiled up at her. "Hi, Mom," he said, as tears filled Nyta's eyes. Dave was quietly reserved, but Jennifer knew that he would accept the situation wholeheartedly, just as she had. Pete merely smiled his approval. Charles answered the phone. "What?" he asked, obviously somewhat disturbed. His listened 424 for quite a period of time, and then said, "Let me call you back, I'll get to the bottom of it." He turned to Nyta wearily. "You may as well get a taste of what being the mother of these three is going to be like. Pete, Sam, into the den. Dave, you seem to be innocent this time. Jenny, you had better come, too." Jennifer could. Not imagine what could have possibly happened, but she obediently followed him into the den. "All right, boys," be. Began sternly. "You took a job caring for your Aunt Net's grounds. Am I right?" Both boys nodded. "That job included keeping the place weeded, the grass trimmed, and general yard upkeep." Again the boys nodded. Jennifer could not imagine what had gone wrong. Nyta watched him fondly, knowing full well what trouble sons could get into at times. "May I ask," Charles said exasperatedly, "just how you managed to ruin every bit of grass that you were supposed to trim with the shears?" Pete gulped. "Did we ruin it?" "Well, Aunt Net says that it has turned yellow, apparently from some sort of burning. I would call that ruined. How did you do it?" Pete looked at Sam, Sam looked at the floor. "Pete, as the older, you are responsible. Answer me," his father commanded. Pete cleared his throat. "We used gasoline on it so we wouldnt have to cut it." Their father threw up his hands and proceeded togive the boys a stern lecture. It was all Jennifer could do to suppress a giggle. It was serious but also amusing. She glanced at Nyta and noticed a smile playing at the corners of her mouth. It was decided that the boys would have to pay for the damage, and that their father would assist them in repairing it, making certain that it was done properly. After he sent the boys out of the room, he shook his head and smiled, "Of course you realize I never did anything like that as a boy," he confided. Jennifer was again faced with the problem of what to do with her life after the marriage. She. Would be through school. She decided to take a position in the Salt Lake City schools. She had promised to type Steve's thesis in the spring. With that finished, he, too, would have completed his education. She had welcomed the task that took her beyond herself. What the future held, she could not foresee and had given up trying. Oe Welcome the Task She found an ex-roommate from college who had an apartment in Salt Lake, and when the honeymooners' returned, — she would be ready to leave. Steve offered his services in helping her to move. He, too, had moved into a small apartment in the city, and was commuting to Provo for his classes. Jennifer's position would be open in February. For two months she would work on genealogy and had other preparatory plans before taking over the job. Winter had settled on the Salt Lake valley, and Temple Square was being readied for the Christmas season with its many beautiful lights. Steve and Jennifer walked along, hand-inhand. They stopped to gaze up at the temple spires, their beauty so enhanced by the soft lights and falling snow. "Well, I guess we're sort of related now," Steve said. "True," Jennifer smiled. "I hope they will be very happy." June 1969 "Me too. You and I are both displaced persons you know. But, at least, you are all moved in," he grinned, remembering the heavy boxes. "Yes, and it's kind of nice to have my own life to plan now, but I suspect that I will sort of miss having others to do for." They had moved around toward the Assembly Hall, and discovered that it was open, although empty. Gently he led her to a bench. "Jenny, I don't know whether it is proper to ask your stepsister to be your wife or not," he began, "but that's a chance I']] have to take." Jennifer could only stare at him. She had given up ever hearing those words from Steve. "f don't know exactly what the future holds for me. I want to be a writer. Of course, I plan to hold down a job. I've been offered a teaching position at the university, and I would like to consider it. I think I can write the great American novel, but what writer doesn't, unrealistic as that dream may be? There may be some lean years for me, but Jenny, I would be the happiest man alive, and the proudest, if you would share them with me." Before Jennifer could utter any word of acceptance, which she was sure was in her eyes, he went on, "I love you, Jenny. I think I have for a very long time. I want you for my wife, for time and all eternity. I want you to have my children. You have had lots of experience with boys, and I would like a whole houseful." He grinned engagingly. "And Jenny, I need you." There was 426 sincerity in his voice, and she knew that his love for her was as pure as the spot where he had chosen to profess it. The word need struck her. He needed her and he loved her. What more could a woman ask? He had indicated that it might not be easy. She recalled vividly the whole phrase her mother had so often used: "Welcome the task that takes you beyond yourself, for then and only then can you grow and accomplish and be prepared to meet the next task which will take you beyond." He was humbly asking her to be his wife, to share the ups and downs. She recalled what her mother had said when she asked how she would know. There was no doubt. Her wildly beating heart told her the answer, even before her mind could, but both were in agreement. He didn't have Jim's self-assurance, and he wasn't promising her the world on a silver platter, but as she saw the diamond he held eagerly in his hand, she realized that Steve's self-confidence was of a different nature. He took nothing for granted, until he felt certain that things were right, and there was humility and concern for others in his attitude. This was the kind of assurance that would someday give him the world, or at least that portion which he earned and was meant to have. It would bring happiness to him and to others. And he had said that he needed her by his side. She sighed happily and whispered, "Oh, yes, Steve," as she extended her left hand to meet the ring, which was only the first step in binding them forever. — op we y Alice Robinson Holyoak, Parowan, Utah, says, ''II always do lots of work to keep from being lonesome."' This work includes the piecing of more than two hundred quilt tops in recent years, designing and making scores of prize-winning hooked rugs, embroidered pillowcases, crocheted tablecloths, and many other lovely articles. Sister Holyoak is ninety-two years old. She has seven children, twenty-three grandchildren, and thirty great-grandchildren. For many years she walked four miles to attend Relief Society meetings and do visiting teaching. She does her own canning of fruits and vegetables, from her own vegetable garden. She raises chickens and sells eggs, and makes her own soap.. Oe nons& all <" Fone aso' a aft Ett ete a States at the age of nine. Gracing her home are many lovely articles of handwork, much of which she has done since turning ninety years old, six years ago. She is an expert quilter, and crochets and embroiders exquisitely, making tablecloths, doilies, and pillowcases. Her family of four children, seven grandchildren and four great-grandchildren enjoy her lovely work in their homes, as do many other relatives and friends. She especially enjoys baking bread and cookies for her great-grandchildren. In Relief Society she has served in the presidency and as a devoted visiting teacher. 427 — SOUTH AFRICA Land of Gold and Green Caroline Eyring Miner, Member, General Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association Transparencies by the author INTRODUCTION 2 South Africa is a land of gold and green, the gold referring to the tremendous output of gold, as well as the gold-colored mine dumps one encounters everywhere in Johannesburg as he first enters the Republic.

The green refers to the grass-covered hills or veld so characteristic of much of this land. South Africa is located on the southern tip of the great continent of Africa, which hangs like a_pendant under Europe. TOPOGRAPHY AND CLIMATE The Republic of South Africa is a self-governing country composed of four provinces: Cape of Good Hope, Natal, the Orange Free State, and the Transvaal. In climate it compares to the Southern United States. The east, south, and west 428 of South Africa are bounded by the Indian and Atlantic Oceans which add to the beauty of this area. For the most part, the coastline is low lying and inhospitable and there are few ports or harbors. The country may be divided into an interior plateau, more than 4,000 feet above sea _ level, and the coastal region, which is the only area below an elevation of 1500 feet. The interior plateau, which occupies forty per cent of the area, consists of undulating plains and steep hills, barren or covered with brushwood. The eastern part of the country ls grasslands called veld, which is used for sheep grazing. This area is green in summer, which comes during the winter of the Northern Hemisphere, and dry in winter. Extensive areas in the west, such as the Kalahari, are semidesert. On the rim of the interior plateau are several peaks over 10,000 feet in elevation. Along the eastern coast, rainfall is adequate and part of Natal has an average of thirty-five to fifty inches of rain a year. December, January, and February are the warmest months. The Cape of Good Hope Province is the driest area and is the most healthful for white settlers, the altitude tempering the climate. INDUSTRIES Agriculture, mining, and manufacturing are the principal industries. Agriculture is hampered in parts where it is dry. Maize, wheat, and cotton are the main products. Citrus fruits and grapes, peaches, and apricots are grown in the Cape area. I was surprised to see oranges for sale everywhere in the outskirts of the cities we visited and inquired about them from the guide. In the northern part of the Republic, pineapples, papaws, mangos, and bananas are grown and we saw numerous great tea and sugar plantations, as well as some tobacco fields. We also visited some great vineyards and wineries that dated back to the beginning of the history of the country.