[Vol56 | June 1969 | Page 471 | General Feature | Visiting Teacher Messages Alice | Colton Smith]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths To Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1969-70) Preview of Messages for 1969-70 Alice Colton Smith Thousands of years ago an astonishing and sobering event occurred. " a large and mighty man, and a man highly favored of the Lord." (Ether 1:34) was shown all "... The inhabitants of the earth which had been, and also all that would be even unto the ends of the earth." (Ether 3:25.) This example of God's omniscience, prophetic power, and knowledge of man is staggering. At the end of 1968 man's flight around the moon was hailed as a towering tribute to man's imagination, inventiveness, perseverance, 

469 June 1969

 and technical brilliance. It resulted from thousands of men working together. Outstanding as this was, compared with God's knowledge as shown to the brother of Jared, it was but a beginning. The Lord foresaw our day and its needs. Many would worship science and technology. There would be disillusionment with old and ancient religious rituals and ideas—even to the claim that "God is dead." The Lord made preparation, centuries in advance for an irrefutable book: Which is to show unto the remnant of the House of Israel what great things the Lord hath done for their fathers; and that they may know the covenants of the Lord, that they are not cast off forever—And also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that JESUS is the CHRIST, the ETERNAL GOD, manifesting himself unto all nations. (Preface to The Book of Mormon.) Abridged by two prophets, Mormon and Moroni, with their writings added, and translated by another, Joseph Smith, it remains an awe-inspiring, faith-inducing, stabilizing, continuing force in the unstable, searching, confused, often cruel world of men. Latter-day Saints everywhere turn to its pages for counsel and renewal of faith and understanding. It is a shining light in our turbulently troubled times. It is a beacon of God's constant concern, love, and offered help. This year we will draw new strength from its pages as we seek guidance and understanding for each day. Message 1—In the Service of Your Fellow Men Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 Objective: To realize that when we serve our fellow beings, we are in the service of our God. Message 2—The Power of Example Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, November 1969 Southern Hemisphere: April 1970 Objective: To understand that one's example can impede or help others. Message 3—The Compassion of Jesus Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, December 1969 Southern Hemisphere: May 1970 Objective: To emphasize that Jesus' compassionate acts are a standard for us all. Message 4—Labor for That Which Perisheth Not (See 2 Ne. 9:51.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 Objective: To remember that throughout one's life one makes eternal choices. Message 5—Weak Things May Become Strong Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, February 1970 Southern Hemisphere: July 1970 Objective: To understand that by overcoming our weaknesses we can become strong. 470 Lesson Previews Message 6—Faith in Christ Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, March 1970 Southern Hemisphere: August 1970 Objective: To know that faith needs constant nourishment. Message 7—True Conversion Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, April 1970 Southern Hemisphere: September 1970 Objective: To remember that true conversion entails humility, repentance, improvement, and righteous works to the end of one's life. Message 8—''Men Are, That They Might Have Joy."' (2 Ne. 2:25.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere: October 1970 Objective: To remember that one of God's great objectives is that man "might have joy."