JUNE 1969 > ety > oJ _'s aa -. +e 4 a The Cover: Frontispiece: Art Layout: Iilustrations: AN HOUR FOR LISTENING Where spruce and fir were darker than the night In a dark forest, when the only light Was her reading candle and a glowworm's tail, Having marked the Book of Psalms, and prayed, Hilda rocked, For rocking pushed against the pull of sleep. This was her listening hour To horned owl gossips who-would keep Wind-lines busy, tying hill to hill, To broad-tail tocsins from 'the beaver pond Holding her suspended between to and fro For the heartbeat. Second of their diving time; To whimperings of a porcupine, To vaultings of a startled fawn— A canyon cadence bearing her Assurance of who her neighbors were. And Hilda rocked. - —Peggy Tangren Home and Gardens, South Africa Transparency by Three Lions Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Forest Flowers in Oregon Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Dick Scopes Mary Scopes 

Thank you very much for your kind gift of a free one-year subscription to The Relief

Society Magazine. We are, here in Eastbourne, a very tiny branch. We all take the

Magazine, and like all branches in the missions, we hope our numbers will increase.

If only all women knew the beauty, sweetness, and real down-to-earth goodness, as

well as the intense spirituality of Relief Society, it would need the town hall to hold

our classes. Our free copy of the Magazine will be used by a possible new sister or

as a gift. Sometimes we give a copy of the Magazine to someone in the hospital, either

member or nonmember. The patients like the Magazine for size and for pleasant,

comfortable reading. E6z V. Longbone, Eastbourne, Sussex, England

We do love our wonderful Magazine and realize how much we depend upon it. Every

poem, article, and story are special features to us, and we send our love to all the

sisters from the Scottish Mission in Bonnie Scotland.

Elva M. Brown, Supervisor, Scottish Mission Relief Society Edinburgh, Scotland

I have been a member of Relief Society for eight months, and I just had to write and

let you know how much I enjoy the Magazine, as I know we all do here in New

Zealand. The Magazine has certainly increased my testimony of the gospel. I have

just had the thrill of becoming our ward's Magazine representative and I presented

the recipe for Trifle out of the Magazine (January 1968) at the Auckland South Stake

Relief Society birthday social. I found it was one the best Trifles I have ever made.

Thanking you all. Lesley G. Wright, East Tanaki, Manukau, New Zealand

I do enjoy The Relief Society Magazine so much. It is the only woman's magazine

that I ever read, and I really do not feel the need for any other.

Gillian G. Brown-Lee, High Wycormbe, Bucks., England

Let me take this opportunity to express my appreciation for the lovely poems found

in The Relief Society Magazine. I was especially thrilled with "Sparrow's Worth," by

Kathryn Kay (March 1969 frontispiece). Mrs. Robert C. Hansen, Cedar City, Utah

About a year ago my mother subscribed for The Relief Society Magazine for me.

The stories are wonderful ^nd have meaning, which is more than can be said for

stories in some other magazines. One article that stands out for me— "Answer to

My Daughter"— by Amy Giles Bond appeared in March 1968. The article has humbled

me and given me greater understanding. Jo Ann Jensen, Boise, Idaho

I want to thank you for The Relief Society Magazine. I am a missionary in the Southern

States Mission. Not long ago my companion received a gift subscription to the Magazine

from his home ward. I have been reading the issues he receives and really

enjoying them. One thing I especially enjoy is the poetry. It would be difficult to find

such a collection of the work of Latter-day Saint poets anywhere else. One poet,

Dorothy J. Roberts, especially catches my attention. Her poems are so intellectually

inspiring that they have great appeal for me. I would like to read and study a collection

of her works. Elder Gene Trone, Bessemer, Alabama

"The Influence of a Friend" (by Shirley Chase, January 1969) was dear to read.

My husband is serving as a stake missionary and I truly appreciate the loving reminder

that cheerful, willing service has its own rewards and blessings. A mission call is a

family venture, and we all have grown and shared in its blessings.

Carol Olson, Richland, Washington

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1969 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts 403