[Vol56 | June 1969 | Page 446 | General Feature | Candies of Excellence Dorothy | J. Roberts]
[Candies of Excellence Dorothy J. Roberts]

Bread clay seems to have an incredible talent for picking up any grime or oil on hands, tools, or molds, so every piece of plastic or pencil or knife must be checked or there will be muddied colors or hard-set specks and lint in the finished product.

(Continued on page 454) 443 Gardens in Portland, Oregon Transparency by Dorothy J. Roberts Furness Fells, Coniston, England Transparency by Camera C lix + ots ag he, Candies of Excellens I Made by Ramona W. Cannon Dorothy J. Roberts s "I think Jerry would have married me sooner if he had known I have a grandmother with your culinary abilities,' wrote Ramona Cannon's granddaughter at Christmas, after receiving the cherished gift of her candies. Ramona's superb candies are good travelers. They go, packed in round fruit cake tins, to her waiting family in many parts of the country. Anyone who has ever tasted her candies will never forget, but long for more. They lend a final touch of elegance to any occasion. Ramona uses: A cool room, temperature under 70 degrees A 16-inch by 24-inch unpolished, unfinished marble slab she picked up at a marble company (some _ sources Transparencies by the author say formica will do) preferably placed by an open window. Be sure slab ts clean. A long-handled wooden spoon A 3%, quart, or larger, kettle. Ramona uses a medium heavy aluminum kettle. Some small, clean pieces of white cloth to wipe inside edge of kettle free of sugar crystals to prevent granulation (Continued on page 452) = One, two, three—on a spring day, I saw six times that many hummingbirds darting toward the feeder suspended on a tree, trying to give the brilliant, ruby-throated "king' the slip. A gold bird shone molten in flight; others, burnished green. Two or three grace notes of winged energy combined against the "king," chasing him away in midair, so a colleague might sip the sugary red nectar. The ruby-throat rested on a mullein tip, but remained constantly ready to drive every other sippers from the field. Once I had seen a pair of these airborne jewels, with bills crossed over their nested young, carolling an idyllic love song.