[Vol56 | June 1969 | Page 442 | General Feature | Hobby Features— Alice Robinson Holyoak and Tillie | Anderson Staples]
[Hobby Features— Alice Robinson Holyoak and Tillie Anderson Staples]

Alvord, Homemaking Leader Lois L. Tanner, President East Phoenix Stake Relief Society 442 Transparency by J M. Heslop # One of the most exciting new mediums for Relief Society homemaking departments is the art of bread clay. Though we speak of it as new, actually its origin dates back several centuries into South America. Traditionally small figurines were ornately prepared as food offerings and placed on the graves of loved ones. Last summer, into the hands of our stake homemaking leader, Myrene Alvord, came three of these small figures with tiny flowers, scrolls, and fine lines of delicate handiwork. These had been brought to her as souvenirs from Ecuador. The women make them of bread, a type of mucilage, and color them with natural dyes. Though these figures had small flaws and cracks, Sister Alvord was intrigued with their china-like appearance and clear colors. She began ex- Bread clay flowers adorn the top of this lovely box perimenting and tried numerous processes and methods. But she was never fully satisfied until, through her own trials and many, many errors, she arrived at a nearly foolproof formula for bread clay devoid of cracks and the graininess that most bread clays seem to have. She has not found another recipe in exact proportions to her own. She uses more white glue along with her glycerin and lemon juice. The "feel" of the clay is very important. It must be fine enough to create a porcelain quality. She has worked her bread clay into many areas and uses. She feels that Rehef Society women can create not only lovely, lasting ornaments to wear and to enjoy in their homes, but tremendous, saleable ideas for bazaars and fairs—and at minimal cost. To mention just a few: jewelry (pins, earrings, bracelets), ornaments, decorated boxes, jewel boxes, candelabra, wall plaques, pictures, figurines, dolls, filigree, miniature fruits and flowers for decorative arrangements under glass. The only outward difference in the final product of ceramic china and Sister Alvord's bread clay is that china must be "fired," and in so doing the ceramic tends to lose it