[Vol44 | October 1957 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Fiction | Title: In | Author: Evans]
[In Memoriam— Priscilla Livingston Evans]

—Emily Ray RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE AT CANESVILLE: President Jane S. Coleman said it afforded her much pleasure to meet with the brethren and sisters.... She had lately visited the local branches of the Relief Society in the western part of the Stake, all were feeling and doing well and were energetic in their labors. Encouraged the sisters to attend their meetings... And advised the young sisters to attend also, that a bond of friendship and good feeling should exist... Good advice can be given, virtue taught and much good accomplished. Spoke of looking after the poor and the necessity of the members to give temporal aid.... Wished the sisters to be more interested in the Exponent by subscribing to it. Sister Eliza Ruse, president of the Canesville Relief Society, gave a good report. Said all the young sisters had joined and were members of Relief Society. —Anna Coleman, Sec. Page 660 ARGARET WEBSTER, daughter of Dame May Whitty and Ben Webster, famous English actors, has had extraordinary success in America directing Shakespeare's plays. She popularized the dramatist among the young with her productions in which young students participated. In 1942 McGraw-Hill published her book Shakespeare Without Tears. YNTHIA BOWLES, daughter of a former United States ambassador, has written a warm, understanding book, At Home in India (Harcourt-Brace & Co.). KATHERINE BROWNELL OETTINGER is the new chief of the Children's Bureau, Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. She was formerly Dean of the School of Social Work, Boston University. ERTRUDE HORTON, an eighteen-year-old Salt Lake City girl, last May won second place in a Nation-wide homemaking contest — the Betty Crocker Search for the American Homemaker of the Year. Priscilla Jones, Blakely, Georgia, won first place, receiving a $5,000 scholarship. Miss Horton Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon won a $4,000 scholarship, with an extensive trip. I HARLOTTE SHEFFIELD, of Salt Lake City, won the Miss United States of America title in the 1957 Miss Universe contest. An active Latter-day Saint, Miss Sheffield was a Junior Sunday School chorister at the time of her victory and has participated in many plays and musical productions in the Church and at the University of Utah. A graduate of the University last June, she majored in secondary education. She has run the hazardous Green and Colorado rivers. AtMostT twice as many children were born in 1956 as in 1936 in the United States. 'This fact places new emphasis on the effort to make schoolteaching an attractive profession for women. Mss FRANCES WILLIS is the new American Ambassador to Norway. She was formerly Ambassador to Switzerland. RS.