[Vol44 | October 1957 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
[Literature: The "Hamlet" Frame Briant S. Jacobs]
JLiterature — Shakespeare  in  Our  Lives 
Lesson  12-The  ''Hamlet"  Frame 
Elder  Briant  S.  Jacobs 
Text:  Shakespeare  Major  Plays  and  the  Sonnets,  by  G.  B.  Harrison, 
Harcourt,  Brace  &  Company,  1948 
For  Tuesday,  January  21,  1958 
Objective:  To  appreciate  Shakespeare's  most  provocative  drama  that  we  may  find 
new  meaning  for  our  own  hves  and  deeper  or  more  adequate  expression  to  our  thoughts. 
The  one  word  that  explains  the  Shakespeare  miracle  is  unconsciousness. — Henry 
David  Thoreau. 
JJAMLET  is  not  only  Shake-  within  him,  so  vastly  does  he  range 
peare's  most  popular  play,  but  from  the  highest  pinnacles  of  hope 
it  is  generally  conceded  to  be  his  to  the  darkest  caverns  of  self-con- 
most  provocative  one,  as  witnessed  tempt  and  despair  that  each  of  us, 
by  its  thousands  of  performances  in  regardless  of  our  identity  at  this 
the  theaters  of  all  nations.  As  early  present  moment,  finds  some  large 
as  1702,  George  Farquhar  called  it  phase  of  himself  mirrored  in  Ham- 
''Long  the  Darling  of  the  English  let.  So  complex  is  he  that,  as  A.  C. 
Audience,  and  like  to  continue  with  Bradley  points  out,  he  is  the  only 
the  same  applause,  in  Defiance  of  character  among  Shakespeare's  myr- 
all  criticism."  It  has  been  estimated  iad  creations  who  could  have  writ- 
that  more  books  have  been  written  ten  Shakespeare's  plays, 
about  the  character  of  Hamlet  than  A  brilliant  example  of  the  vari- 
any  other  name  in  fiction,  and  more  ous  responses  which  he  evokes  is 
than  any  ''real"  person,  save  Christ,  told  by  Frederic  Harrison,  an  Eng- 
Napoleon,  and  Lincoln.  In  recent  lishman  with  a  lifelong  devotion  to 
decades  the  number  of  books  ''ex-  Hamlet,  who  recalls  his  disappoint- 
plaining"  him  continues  to  increase,  ment  at  the  French  production  of 
Thus,  apparently,  we  moderns  con-  HamJet  he  saw  in  Paris.  "Why,  that 
tinue  to  find  new  vitality  in  the  play  isn't  Hamlet  at  all!"  he  complained 
each  time  it  is  read.  And  even  to  a  Frenchman  seated  near  him, 
though  no  one  completely  under-  who,  in  turn,  replied,  "My  friend, 
stands  the  frustrations  which  make  you  forget  that  Hamlet  is  not  only 
up  Hamlet's  character,  he  seems  to  an  Englishman.  There  is  a  French 
tell  us  more  about  ourselves  from  Hamlet,  a  German,  an  Italian,  a 
over  the  centuries  than  do  writers  Russian  Hamlet,  each  different  in 
of  our  own  day,  so  constant  is  his  personal  and  national  idiosyncrasy, 
popularity.  but  all  profoundly  true  to  Shake- 
Probably  the  reason  Hamlet  is  so  speare's  ideal  of  the  inscrutable  spir- 
provocative  is  because,  without  any  it  of  the  ill-starred  Prince  of  Den- 
close  rivals,  his  is  the  most  complex  mark."  This  varying  concept  of 
character  in  Shakespeare.  So  inex-  Hamlet  among  various  cultures  is
