[Vol44 | October 1957 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Lets | Author: Morris]
[Lets Visit a Desert Sea Marijane Morris]
Let's  Visit  a  Desert  Sea 
Marf/ane  Morris 
CAN  you  imagine  a  place  to  centage  of  sunshine.  Eastward,  look- 
swim  where  there  isn't  any-  ing  like  melted  chocolate  ice  cream, 
thing  to  fear  in  the  way  of  are  the  Chocolate  Mountains, 
tides,  undercurrents,  or  sea  life.  North  are  the  Orocopias,  and  to  the 
where  a  swimmer  can  touch  bottom  west  and  south  the  Superstition 
in  many  places  one-fourth  mile  out,  Mountain,  where  hasty  travel  is  not 
or  splash  along  the  shore  without  advised.  Barren  of  water,  it  is  rich 
worry  of  hidden  holes,  and  where  in  tales  from  the  Indian  and  white 
the  only  surface  disturbance  is  alike  of  men  who  ventured  into  its 
caused  by  the  wind?  It  does  exist,  long,  low  formations  in  search  of 
although  visitors  coming  upon  the  gold  and  never  returned.  Today, 
Salton  Sea  suddenly  in  California's  the  Superstition  still  presents,  to 
Colorado  Desert,  suspect  a  mirage,  the  hardy  ones,  a  place  to  search  for 
Resembling  a  huge  footprint  with  adventure  and  interesting  minerals, 
the  toes  turned  slightly  westward.  You  could  say,  and  be  accurate, 
it  hes  233  feet  below  sea  level,  that  all  roads  in  California's  Colo- 
stretches  some  thirty-five  miles  be-  rado  Desert  lead  to  the  Salton  Sea. 
tween  Indio  on  the  north  and  From  Yuma,  Arizona,  it  is  U.  S.  80, 
Brawley  on  the  south.  Indirectly  from  San  Diego,  highways  80  and 
man-made,  ten  to  sixteen  miles  wide,  78,  and  from  Palm  Springs,  State 
shallow  for  several  hundred  yards  111.  If  you  are  approaching  this 
from  the  shore,  with  its  greatest  inland  sea  from  Blythe  on  U.  S. 
depth  around  forty  feet,  it  is  cradled  60-70,  then  junction  at  California 
in  two  of  southeastern  California's  State  highway  195  and  travel 
counties.  Riverside  and  the  fertile  through  Box  Canyon.  The  odd. 
Imperial.  almost  weird,   vertical  rock  forma- 
The  limits  of  the  sea  are  beyond  tions  rising  on  either  side  will  put 
your  sight.     Rising  majestically  to  you    in    the    mood    for   your    first 
the  northwest  are  the  San  Jacinto  glimpse   of  the   Salton   Sea.     This 
Mountains,     then     southwest    and  highway  leads  to  Mecca  and  then 
south  are  the  Vallecintos  and  the  branches  to  111  on  the  east  and  99 
Santa   Rosa   Range.    These   moun-  on    the   west    of    the    sea.      Either 
tains,  part  of  the  Peninsular  Range,  route,  or  a  loop  trip,  if  you  have 
like  huge  dams  shelter  the  Salton  time,  will  delight  your  tourist  heart 
Sea,  Coachella  and  Imperial  Valleys  and  senses. 
from  the  blistering  heat  of  the  des-  Standing  on  the  shores,  picnick- 
ert  and  the  storms  off  the  Pacific,  ing  in  one  of  several  excellent  loca- 
Shangri-la!      Other    mountains,    al-  tions    on    the   beaches,    swimming, 
though  not  as  spectacular  in  size,  boating,  fishing,  or  loafing  give  the 
ridge  the  sea  and  provide  color  and  average    visitor   little   awareness    of 
atmosphere  and  boost  the  high  per-  the   birth    of    this   gentle   body   of 
Page  657

658 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER  1957 
Marijane  Morris 
THE  SALTON  SEA 
water.  There  is  nothing  to  suggest 
the  sea's  accidental  birth  amid  con- 
fusion and  desperation. 
ORIEFLY,  around  the  last  of  Aug- 
ust 1905,  the  salt-encrusted  de- 
pression known  as  the  Salton  Sink 
was  becoming  the  Salton  Sea.  The 
overflowing  Colorado  River,  through 
an  irrigation  break  below  Yuma,  be- 
gan moving  westward  instead  of 
south.  The  distance  from  Yuma 
to  the  Gulf  of  California  along  the 
general  course  of  the  Colorado  Riv- 
er is  about  seventy-five  miles.  The 
distance  to  the  Salton  Sea  is  not 
very  much  greater,  but  the  differ- 
ence in  elevation  between  the  gulf 
and  the  sea  is  something  like  280 
feet.  You  can  readily  understand 
the  crush  of  water  as  it  took  the 
steep,  easy  course  down  the  valley. 
Farmers  were  unable  to  stem  the 
river  even  with  dynamite.  They 
watched  helplessly  as  their  rich  farm 
land  became  cuts  and  chasms.  One 
channel  widened  to  800  feet.  Three 
times  the  main  line  of  the  Southern 
Pacific  Railway  was  moved.     Des- 
perate measures  were  used  to  turn 
the  advancing  water.  In  February 
1907,  the  mighty  Colorado  was  con- 
trolled and  again  flowed  into  the 
Gulf  of  California,  leaving  behind 
in  shimmering  sands  the  beautiful 
Salton  Sea. 
It  has  become  a  delightful  all- 
year  playground.  Water  from  the 
irrigating  ditches  of  the  Imperial 
Valley,  seepage,  rainfall,  and  water 
supplied  from  Mexico  through  the 
New  River  and  Alamo  River  assure 
the  sea's  future  despite  its  heavy  loss 
from  evaporation. 
The  mountains  surrounding  the 
Salton  Sea  are  an  amazing  treasure 
trove.  There  are  shells,  chalcedony, 
quartz,  calcite,  tourmaline,  garnet, 
serpentine,  obsidian,  mica,  petrified 
oysters,  and  for  those  who  wouldn't 
recognize  any  of  these  stones  were 
he  to  stumble  on  them,  there  are 
Indian  pottery  and  other  relics. 
Terraces  slightly  above  the  sea  level 
on  the  sides  of  the  basin  indicate 
that  there  was  formerly  present  in 
the  region  a  lake,  called  Lake  Ca- 
huilla   which   was    more   than    120

LET'S  VISIT  A  DESERT  SEA 
659 
miles  long  and  thirty  miles  wide. 
It's  a  happy  hunting  ground  for 
collectors,  especially  along  the  old 
shore  lines  where  it  is  known  In- 
dians once  lived. 
POR  the  bird  watchers  some  200 
varieties  in  the  Salton  Sea  area 
have  been  recorded.  It  isn't  unusual 
from  September  on  to  see  killdeer, 
sandpipers,  egrets,  willets,  grebes, 
snipe,  teal,  pelicans,  and  seagulls. 
What  you  can  do  and  see  here
