[Vol44 | October 1957 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Fiction | Title: Work | Author: Edwards]
Work ITleeting—Living More Abundantly (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 4—Making Money More Valuable Elder William F. Edwards For Tuesday, January 8, 1958 Objective: To become aware of the added happiness available to those who are always anticipating important and good things. NE reason the sacred scriptures never grow old is because they contain so much basic truth that is recognized anew as our understanding increases. 'hus one can continually study the scriptures and find "hidden treasures of knowledge." In the story of the creation of the earth and man and the mission of Jesus, we see in action principles that have application to our objective of a life filled with joy. Creation of Earth and Man The Book of Moses records the visions and the writings of Moses as revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith. The Lord made clear his goal: For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 1:39). With this goal established, there follows the greatest recorded story of preparation and anticipation. "The earth was without form, and void..." and in five intervals of time called "days," the earth was prepared for man (Moses 2:1-25). Then came the greatest of the days: "And I, God, said unto mine Only Begotten, which was with me from the beginning: Let us make man in Page 694 our image, after our likeness; and it was so" (Moses 2:26). And God blessed them "male and female" and instructed them. With the goal of creation completed, God "rested on the seventh day,' "And I, God, blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it..." (Moses 3:2-3). In this story we desire to detect three fundamentals: a. Establishment of an important goal b. An adequate period of preparation and anticipation c. Realization of the goal. Jesus and His Mission The purpose of the earthly mission of Jesus (the goal) is clear from the scriptures. The story of the early life of Jesus is incomplete, but sufficient to reveal thirty years of preparation and anticipation. 'Then came the short but glorious mission, the realization of the goal (Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John). The Lord's Way—The Wise Way The story of the delivering of Israel from bondage, the story of Joseph Smith and the organization of the Church (Joseph Smith 2, The Pearl of Great Price), and other great events in the dealings of the Lord with his people, all emphasize the same fundamentals. It can be LESSON DEPARTMENT said that the Lord's way of achieving worthwhile things is to begin by the establishment of an important, praiseworthy goal, and then engage in an adequate period of preparation and anticipation. Applying these fundamentals to our lives quickly reveals that it is the wise way. A Successful Trip Many saints living in all parts of North America have thrilled with a trip to Palmyra, New York, to witness The Book of Mormon pageant at the Hill Cumorah. In this we can find a practical application of these fundamentals by imagining the experiences of two families. The first family did things the right way. Nearly a year in advance they decided to make the trip. This gave them time to prepare for the trip. They soon found that going by one route and returning another they could visit along the way almost all of the important spots in Church history. 'This stimulated a review of Church history to identify the exact location of the spots and to become more fully acquainted with the history. Now people in history became more important, and this family became better acquainted with the lives of early Church leaders. 'This also provided time to prepare financially for the trip. N contrast, let us imagine another family doing the same thing, but doing it the wrong way. This family made a sudden decision to take the trip. It was necessary to borrow money from the bank. 'They obtained road maps, but failed to identify many of the important historical locations and did not acquaint themselves with the desired 695 Church history. After returning home, they became aware of the many things they could have done with proper planning, and there was the debt at the bank to be paid off. Both families spent the same amount of time taking the trip and the same amount of money. But there is no question but that the first family obtained much more satisfaction—the money they spent was more valuable! Savings Should Precede Spending Savings should precede spending, with only justifiable exceptions. The First Presidency would like to urge every member of the Church to follow the example set by the Church and to live within his income. Anyone who lives beyond his income is inviting disaster. Borrowed money is not income. Borrowing on capital account, within your reasonable capacity to pay, may be sound, depending upon circumstances. But borrowing to live on is unsound, whether it be an outright loan or installment buying. We urge the members to be frugal, thrifty, industrious, temperate, saving, and to live righteously (President J. Reuben Clark, Jr.). Some will ask: How could we ever obtain many things like an automobile, a refrigerator, or a television set, if we could not buy on credit, because it seems impossible to save first? 'There is only one correct answer. 'The more pressing your financial position, the greater the need to save before buying. Only the well-to-do can afford to buy on credit, and they are the ones most likely to avoid it. It is better to live simply, plainly, be sparing in every indulgence, even if it is harmless, than to replenish your purse for luxuries by going into debt (Joseph F. Smith), 696 Buying on credit usually means paying the equivalent of a premium price; it is the expensive way and, in the long run, the hard way of acquiring things. There are justifiable occasions for encouraging debts, such as buying a home, and this will be discussed fully in a subsequent lesson. But, generally, it is unwise to buy and pay later. Never be argued out of your soul; never be argued out of your honor; and never be argued into believing that soul and honor do not run a terrible risk if you limp into life with the load of debt on your shoulders (Bulwer Lytton). Money Can Be Made More Valuable It is a recognized principle in economics, as real as Newton's Theory of Gravitation or Einstein's Law of Relativity, that money changes in value. Most people have a greater opportunity to increase their economic satisfactions by doing those things that increase the value of money than by increasing the supply of money available for spending. In a very real sense, the family that planned carefully for the trip to Palmyra received enjoyment equal to having spent the money three times. 'The period of preparation and anticipation was one of real happiness and joy. 'The period of realization was enriched and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 made mote satisfying. After returning home, their choice memories of the trip and satisfaction from having seen and experienced all of the things of interest were valuable. They really received $3 of satisfaction for each $1 spent! In contrast, the other family that failed to plan probably did not receive even $1 of value for each $1 spent. 'They were deprived of the experience of preparation and anticipation, received less enjoyment while on the trip, and, in the end, had a degree of remorse plus the burden of paying back the money borrowed. Conclusion Always be anticipating something wonderful. This not only results in spending money more wisely, but gives added new satisfaction frequently equal to that which comes from the actual realization — it truly makes money more valuable. The hopeful man is the man whom discouragement cannot harm, the man who is able to overcome reverses. If one lives each day in an atmosphere of preparation and anticipation for soul-satisfying and wonderful events, each day is somehow colored by this beauty, and all of life grows more lovely. All of the events of our life can gain in value if we look forward to them with joy, plan for them with care, and accomplish them in the spirit of the gospel. [' a person owned what he had and did not have to pay interest, and only bought as he had the money to buy, the majority of people would be in reasonably comfortable circumstances (President Heber J. Grant, Gospel Standards, page 112). tiene Shakespeare in Our Lives Lesson 12—The "Hamlet" Frame Elder Briant S. Jacobs Text: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948 For Tuesday, January 21, 1958 Objective: To appreciate Shakespeare's most provocative drama that we may find new meaning for our own lives and deeper or more adequate expression to our thoughts. The one word that explains the Shakespeare miracle is unconsciousness——Henry David Thoreau. AMLET is not only Shakepeare's most popular play, but it is generally conceded to be his most provocative one, as witnessed by its thousands of performances in the theaters of all nations. As early as 1702, George Farquhar called it "Long the Darling of the English Audience, and like to continue with the same applause, in Defiance of all criticism." It has been estimated that more books have been written about the character of Hamlet than any other name in fiction, and more than any "real" person, save Christ, Napoleon, and Lincoln. Jn recent decades the number of books "explaining" him continues to increase. Thus, apparently, we moderns continue to find new vitality in the play each time it is read. And even though no one completely understands the frustrations which make up Hamlet's character, he seems to tell us more about ourselves from over the centuries than do writers of our own day, so constant is his popularity. Probably the reason Hamlet is so provocative is because, without any close rivals, his is the most complex character in Shakespeare. So inexhaustible are the depths of conflicts within him, so vastly does he range from the highest pinnacles of hope to the darkest caverns of self-contempt and despair that each of us, regardless of our identity at this present moment, finds some large phase of himself mirrored in Hamlet. So complex is he that, as A. C. Bradley points out, he is the only character among Shakespeare's myriad creations who could have written Shakespeare's plays. A brilliant example of the various responses which he evokes is told by Frederic Harrison, an Englishman with a lifelong devotion to Hamlet, who recalls his disappointment at the French production of Hamlet he saw in Paris. "Why, that isn't Hamlet at all!" he complained to a Frenchman seated near him, who, in turn, replied, "My friend, you forget that Hamlet is not only an Englishman. There is a French Hamlet, a German, an Italian, a Russian Hamlet, each different in personal and national idiosyncrasy, but all profoundly true to Shakespeare's ideal of the inscrutable spirit of the ill-starred Prince of Denmark." This varying concept of Hamlet among various cultures is not to be questioned, so logical is Page 697 698 it. How much more true must be the variation within each culture; Hamlet, therefore, must appear as variously to each of us as we are different from each other. And an awareness of this truth is not to belittle him nor destroy his power, but only to acclaim the unconscious genius Shakespeare employed to incarnate most nearly his inexhaustible self within Hamlet, the largest single creation of his pen. It shall be the purpose of the second lesson on Hamlet to discuss him as the central, integrating symbolforce of the play, about whom all else hinges; indeed, in no other of Shakespeare's plays does one character so completely dominate. As preparation for such an approach, our present lesson attempts to point out how thoroughly Shakespeare prepared a magnificent setting or frame around the emerging character of Hamlet; how lesser characters within the play, even though they receive his contempt, his envy, or even his rapier, best serve to mirror the various conflicts within Hamlet himself. But before this is begun, we must look for a moment at the plot. Plot Prince Hamlet, son of Hamlet, King of Denmark, was away studying at Wittenberg when he received word of his father's—the King's— sudden death and returned home. Too soon thereafter his widowed mother, Queen Gertrude, had married Claudius, her husband's brother, who now reigns as king. At midnight on the battlements of the castle, the ghost of Hamlet's father appears to him and his best friend Horatio, and tells Prince RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 Hamlet that Claudius has murdered him after first winning Gertrude's affections. Next the ghost orders him to be revenged on his uncle, although he should spare his mother. In hesitation at performing this command, Hamlet pretends to be mad, and repulses Ophelia whom he formerly loved. He arranges for a play to be presented to the court which represents the crimes of his uncle who, seeing the play for what it is, betrays his evident guilt to Hamlet's satisfaction. King Claudius flees from the play to kneel in private prayer. Here Hamlet discovers him, yet cannot bring himself to kill him while he is in such holy pursuits. In a furious interview with his mother in her bedroom, Hamlet, it seems to her, is about to kill her, but, instead, he accidentally kills Polonius, who had been planted by Claudius behind the draperies to eavesdrop. As soon as hot-blooded Laertes learns that Polonius, his father, has been murdered, he returns posthaste from France to avenge his father's death, but he is controlled by King Claudius, who convinces him Hamlet will be taken care of. Knowing his own danger as long as Hamlet is alive and able to talk, Claudius sends Hamlet to England, unknowingly bearing orders for his own execution upon arrival. Completely spurned, then crushed by cruelly indifferent Hamlet, Ophelia goes mad, even as word comes from the high seas that Hamlet has killed his guards and former friends, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, has overcome pirates who attacked his vessel, and even now is back in Denmark. Once LESSON DEPARTMENT more Claudius and Laertes plot his death. Hamlet arrives with his friend Horatio just in time to witness the funeral of accidentally drowned Ophelia, and in rash despair over his lost love for her, he jumps into her open grave to quarrel with her fiery brother Laertes. Soon thereafter King Claudius announces a fencing match to be held before the court, in which Laertes is to use a poisoned sword against Hamlet. Laertes wounds Hamlet, but the foils accidentally had been exchanged, and Laertes, instead, is poisoned. Realizing that he has but seconds to live, Laertes tells of the King's treachery, but he speaks too late to prevent Queen Gertrude from drinking the poisoned wine prepared for Hamlet. Knowing that his own death is near, Hamlet finally becomes a man of action and stabs the King, then, to be doubly sure, Hamlet forces Claudius to drink the remaining poisoned wine, gallantly saves Horatio from death, and dies. As an ironic contrast, Prince Fortinbras of Norway enters en route to a successful conquest for his own glory and that of his country. Condensation Though Hamlet is by far Shakespeare's longest play, it is concentrated diet throughout. Ideally, nothing can be removed without injuring the entire structure. The play itself is its own best summary, and no other even approaches validity. It contains no one "best" scene because the play as a whole is its own best oneness. 'Therefore, in presenting excerpts, we do so only because of the shortness of time and space. 699 The play sparkles with well-worn phrases long familiar to our tongues. Who would have thought just one of Shakespeare's plays could have put so many words in our mouths as the following: "In my mind's eye" (I. 2. 185); "the primrose path of dalliance treads" (I. 3.50); "brevity is the soul of wit" (II. 2. Go); "Though this be madness, yet there is method in 't" (II. 2. 207-208); "Aye, there's the rub" (III. 1. 65); "shuffled off this mortal coil" (III. 1. 67); "the whips and scorns of time" (III. 1. 70); "The glass of fashion and the mold of form" (III. 1. 161); "as easy as lying" (III. 2. 373); "my offense is rank, it smells to Heaven" (IIT. 3. 36); "Hoist with his own petar" (III. 4. 207); "flaming youth" (III. 4. 84); "Cudgel thy brains" (V. 1. 63); "yeoman's service' (V. 2. 36); "Sweets to the sweet" (V. 1. 266); "dog will have his day" (V. 1. 315); ""There's a divinity that shapes our ends" (V. 2.10). Many more quotations could be cited, if space permitted. Yet these are ample to indicate how memorable is the language of the play throughout, largely because of its intensity and condensation. Hub and Wheel Hamlet is such a tremendous experience because Shakespeare has been so successful in making Hamlet's confusions, contradictions, his hopes, and despairs seem entirely real. As the hub of the play's structure, Prince Hamlet receives along the spokes of the wheel the support or contrast of the minor characters, whose functions might be likened to the rim. As the influence of their actions and philosophies flows from 700 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1957 each of them inward to Hamlet, at first it might seem that their weaknesses are allowed to surround or frame him in that the power of his character and the rightness of his cause and method may serve as contrast. But, upon closer examination, it becomes evident that the indecision and corruption flowing in to Hamlet often receive his contempt, his satire, or his vehement condemnation, not merely because he recognizes them as evils within themselves, but because, consciously or unconsciously, they are dominant within his own heart, thus making even more chaotic his own inward conflicts and bewilderment. Once this paradox becomes apparent, we then see that the rottenness which is Denmark is not only flowing to Hamlet, but he, in turn, radiates outward to the rm or frame surrounding him, his own intensified reflection of the very evils he condemns with such stern bitterness. This reciprocating absorption-condemnation radiation cycle is employed by Shakespeare to sharpen Hamlet's self-warfare as no other device could have done. Such a pattern is evident within at least three phases of Hamlet's mind and heart. 1. Action vs. Indecision The play opens in a fever of military activity with "daily. Cast of brazen cannon" and the forced drafting of:.. Shipwrights, whose sore task Does not divide the Sunday from the week. I. 1. 75-76 In direct contrast to Hamlet's frustrating inability to execute the commands of his dead father, young Fortinbras of Norway, "of unimproved mettle hot and full" is threatening to invade Denmark to win back the lands seized by King Hamlet from Fortinbras' own uncle, King Fortinbras, and thus avenge this stain on his honor. King Claudius proves himself an_ effective diplomat by convincing young Fortinbras not to fight with Denmark, yet his "spirit with divine ambition puffed" will not permit him to stagnate, and in Act IV, scene 4, Fortinbras asks Denmark's permission to bring troops across her territory to fight Poland for a tiny patch of ground "that hath no profit but the name." Informed of Fortinbras' courage, his love of action, and his willingness to sacrifice two thousand souls and twenty thousand ducats to gain such a trifle, Hamlet sees in contrast his own indecision, defines himself "... One part wisdom three parts coward " (IV. 4. 42) and in envy, speaks of Fortinbras, thus:... Delicate and tender Prince Whose spirit with divine ambition puffed Makes mouths at the invisible event, Exposing what is mortal and unsure To all that fortune, death, and danger dare, Even for an eggshell. IV. 4. 48-53 But whereas Fortinbras serves as foil or contrast to Hamlet (as does his steady, loyal friend Horatio), Laertes serves to sharpen Hamlet's dilemma both as foil and as pattern. Once Laertes learns of his father's murder, he returns home furious, ready to lead indignant commonfolk against the apparently corrupt Claudius. 'This extreme action Hamlet justly spurns, recognizing it for the hot-headed foolishness which LESSON DEPARTMENT it is; nevertheless Hamlet's suffering conscience reminds him that at least Laertes tries to do something, even while he, with far greater justification, remains inert. Yet at the burial of Ophelia, it is Hamlet, not the impetuous Laertes, who loses his head entirely and jumps into the grave to release the body of his beloved from the justifiable embrace of her brother Laertes. The Devil take thy soul! Pling with him] Haml. Thou pray'st not well. I prithee, take thy fingers from my throat, For though I am not splenitive and rash, Yet have I in me something dangerous, Which let thy wisdom fear. Hold off thy hand. Laer. [GrapV. 1. 282-286 Then the grief-stricken Hamlet pours out his love for Ophelia and, disclaiming Laertes' right to rant and moan, so outrants him that, quite justly, Queen Gertrude describes his action as "mere madness." Thus the distraught Hamlet excels Laertes in displaying excessive impulse to action, which formerely he condemned in Laertes, even while he envied him. 2. Integrity vs. Duplicity Polonius is a professional courtier, flatterer, cynic, hypocritical fawner, and self-styled master in the shady arts of eavesdropping and social intrigue. He has his son Laertes spied on while away at school, debases Hamlet's love for his daughter into flirtation, if not lust, and eagerly offers to spy for Claudius. Hamlet calls him a calf, a fishmonger, and "a tedious old fool," and, upon discovering he has killed him accident- 701 ally, Hamlet says, "Thou wretched, rash, intruding fool, farewell." Yet, ironically, it is this pompous windbag who speaks to his departing son what may be the most widely quoted lines Shakespeare ever wrote. Evaluated in terms of their source, then, the following lines are but further proof of his wordy shallowness; quoted in isolation "these few precepts" are immortal:... Give thy thoughts no tongue, Nor any unproportioned thought his act. Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.