[Vol44 | October 1957 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Compiling | Author: Paralysi]
[Compiling a Census of Post-Polio Patients Foundation for Infantile Paralysis]
(compiling  a    (^ensus  of  Lrost-LPolio  LPatients 
npHE  National  Foundation  for  Infantile  Paralysis  reports  that  it  is  launch- 
ing a  massive  program  aimed  at  helping  thousands  of  persons  disabled 
by  polio  to  achieve  greater  degrees  of  self-sufficiency. 
''Step  one  in  the  dynamic  new  phase  of  the  war  on  polio  is  the 
compilation  of  a  roster  of  post-polios  across  the  nation  by  some  3,100  Na- 
tional Foundation  chapters/'  according  to  Basil  O'Connor,  president  of 
the  National  Foundation.  .  .  . 
''In  the  light  of  new  knowledge  in  the  treatment  of  polio  and  modern 
rehabilitation  techniques,  a  great  many  polio  victims  now  may  benefit 
from  additional  treatment  and  training,  much  of  it  recently  developed  at 
respiratory  and  rehabilitation  centers.  We  want  to  find  out  who  these 
people  are  and  what  can  we  done  for  them  over  a  period  of  time." 
The  general  board  of  Relief  Society  is  co-operating  in  this  worthwhile 
endeavor  and  calls  to  the  attention  of  its  readers  the  following  question- 
naire, a  copy  of  which  should  be  filled  out  for  post-polio  patients  whom  the 
reader  knows,  and  mailed  to  the  county  chapter  of  the  National  Founda- 
tion for  Infantile  Paralysis  in  which  the  patient  lives. 
POLIO  PATIENT  REPORT 
National  Foundation  for  Infantile  Paralysis 
  COUNTY  CHAPTER 
Patient's  Name  
 
(LAST)  (FIRST)  (MmDLE) 
Home  Address  
 
(No.   and   Street)  (City  or  Town)  (State) 
Date  of  Birth   4.     Date  of  Onset   
(Mo.)  (Day)  Yr.)  (Mo.)  (Day)  Yr.) 
5.     Can  patient  climb  stairs?  (      )Yes  (      )No  6.     Dress  self?  (    )Yes     (      )No 
7.     Is  patient  gainfully  employed: 
at  home  (      )Yes  (      )No;  outside  home  (      )Yes  (      )No 
Does  patient  attend  school?  (      )Yes  (      )No 
9.     Is  patient  now  receiving  regular  treatment  for  poHo?  (      )Yes  (      )No 
10.  If  "y^^'"  where  (check  below-)? 
(      )     Hospital  in-patient  service   
Hospital  City 
(      )      Out-patient  clinic   
Agency  City 
(      )      Physician's  office   
Name  City 
(      )     At  home       Check  if  attendant  is  used  (      ) 
(Address  if  different  from   above) 
11.  Date  physician  last  saw  patient  
 
(Mo.)  (Yr.) 
12.  Is  patient  using  respiratory  aids 
(iron  lung,  chest  respirator,  rocking  bed)?  (      )  Yes  (      )   No.     (Indicate  which) 
13.  Is  patient  receiving  outside  financial  assistance  for  poho  treatment?   (Other  than 
family)?       (      )  Yes        (      )  No 
(Indicate  source) 
14.  State  briefly  any  special  problems  patient  now  has  as  result  of  poho 
(problems  of  travel,  finance,  medical  care,  job,  etc.):  
 
T)hn:E  "'"'"'"'Z^^^^  COMPLETING  FORM    
(Mo.)      (Day)       Yr.)  (Signature)   Relationship 
to  Patient 
NFIP    Form  #661 
USE  REVERSE  SIDE  FOR  ADDITIONAL  COMMENTS 
Page  668