A Friend of the Helpless Dead. 

While we are calling to mind the generous and tenderly sympathetic labors of such world-famous women as Florence Nightingale and Clara Barton, let us not forget that we have women amongst us, consecrated women, who have not only reared large families and ministered in the Relief Society, but also have labored as priestesses in the temples of the living God, and thus brought hope and cheer to the helpless, imprisoned spirits behind the veil. We may well weep over the sufferings of the soldiers in the trenches and the desolate of their loved ones left behind. But the death of the body is not so hopeless or helpless as the agelong imprisonment of the spirit. Be assured that the name and memory of those who labor in our temples will be held up before the altar of prayer and remembrance in the long ages to come by those spirits who are liberated through such labors. From the earliest days women have occupied an equally exalted and important position in temple work with that of their associated brethren. Among those who have officiated as high priestesses in the Nauvoo Temple and in the Endowment House were those modern prophetesses Eliza R. Snow, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Mary and Mercy Fielding Smith, Bathsheba W. Smith, Julina L. Smith, and Edna Lampson Smith, wife of President Joseph F. Smith (the latter two working in the Endowment House). 

Sister Edna L. Smith, wife of President Joseph F. Smith, who at present presides over the sisters in the Salt Lake Temple, is the most unique and faithful living woman associated with temple work. When a girl of 22, and the mother of a little babe, her husband, who was already a worker in the Endowment House, came to her one day with a message from President Brigham Young: "The President wishes you to go to the Endowment House to take charge of the kitchen and dining-room work." The quick retort of her nimble tongue was: "Why doesn't he ask one of his own wives to be the cook?" This was silenced only by the look of reproof on the husband's face, but by her own obedient spirit and natural good sense. She took her baby in her arms, and never from that day to this, except when sickness or pressing duties have demanded her absence, has she been away from duties and labors in the House of the Lord. When the Salt Lake Temple was dedicated she was chosen as a worker there. She had been invited by Sister Eliza R. Snow to assist in the ordinance work of the Endowment House, and to alternate her 

labors so as to combine both the heavy toil entailed in the kitchen and the lighter duty involved in the ordinance. Her elder sister, Julina L. Smith, President Joseph F. Smith, alternated with Edna, in preparing and serving meals in the Endowment House, and she, too, was called as one of the first workers in the Salt Lake Temple, where she remained until her husband became President of the Church, and her presence was required in the Bee Hive House with her husband and family. Sister Edna L. Smith has labored in season and out of season, faithfully and cheerfully in the Salt Lake Temple. During the Presidency of Sister Bathsheba W.

Smith, Edna assisted in the pressing duties resting upon her aged Aunt Bathsheba. On the death of Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, September 20, 1910, Edna L. Smith was put in charge of the sister workers in the Salt Lake Temple. Not only was she given that exalted position, but owing to her exquisite cleanliness, shrewd disciplinary powers, and her devotion to details, she was invited by President John R. Winder to accept the responsibility of maintaining cleanliness in all of the internal affairs of the Temple. This duty, too, she has carried forward, and only those who are privileged to enter the sacred courts of this temple know, or are able to estimate, the value of the services rendered by Sister Edna L. Smith in the discharge of her onerous duties in that sacred house. Cleanliness, order, system, and comfort have followed in her wake. She has accomplished marvels in the regulation and inner arrangements of the temple. Recently she was given a responsible opportunity to assist President William Budge in the renovation and improvement of the Logan Temple. Sister Smith is a woman of deep, spiritual insight, with an abounding love of the higher things of the kingdom. She is a natural student and possesses a keen mind. Comely, nervously active in all her movements, and gifted with piercing eyes, she is sometimes abrupt and vigorous in her expressions and with her quick word of counsel; but those who know her best, forget the thrust of the two-edged sword in contemplating the mercy of the wound, which was made only that righteousness might increase and obedience be enforced. She has a gift of maintaining the strictest discipline, but those who come close to her, love her for her integrity, her genuineness, her nobility, and her pure, upright spirit. She is a friend of those who love God, who honor His prophets, and who are willing to take counsel. Among other excellent things accomplished by this indefatigable worker was the institution of a War Charity, which she established directly among the sister temple workers, in 1914, wherein hundreds of dollars were collected for distribution among the European war orphans and widows of our own Church. There is no question but that this movement was the forerunner of the magnificent donation undertaken a few months later, under the direction of the First Presidency, wherein nearly $40,000 was collected in one day and distributed throughout the European Mission by President Hyrum M. Smith and his associates in the British Mission. It may be interesting to record here the significant dream which was given to Mrs. Smith about seven years ago. She dreamed she was going into the Temple and as she entered the enclosure, she saw every spot of earth filled with the rarest and most beautiful flowers imaginable. There were lilies of all hues and kinds, but all were luxuriant in growth and beautiful in texture. The leaves had this peculiarity to her vision: they were translucent, even transparent. She could see through them as if the inner fiber were spirit rather than vegetable matter. Surprised into speech, she asked the guide who stood by her: "What are these flowers?" "These are flowers that have been planted by the Genealogical Society of Utah," answered her guide. It is comforting to all Latter-day Saints to realize that the gifts and blessings and manifestations of the Holy Spirit are with those of us who today are as much interested in the dead as in any time in the Church. Moreover, those who are doing temple work will rejoice to hear the following recital: "During the last week's session of the Salt Lake Temple, about July, 1915, a young girl whose mother had died a number of years ago, came to be married at the altar of that sacred house. Her grandmother was with her and a number of official brethren and sisters were in the room where the ceremony was being performed. Just as the final blessing was pronounced upon the young couple, the young girl raised her hand and spoke the name of her mother. 'There's my mother, don't you see her? Can't you see her? Oh, my mother!' cried the weeping bride who melted with exquisite sorrow at the vision of her noble mother." So profound was the impression, so pure was the manifestation, that nearly everyone present in the room wept in sympathy with this lovely and blessed bride. Too beautiful to know that she was approved by those behind the veil as well as blessed and loved by her relatives and friends who were here on earth.

This work of redeeming the dead has begun, but it will never cease until all the dead who will accept the gospel have been redeemed. By them the 21st of September will ever be held in honorable remembrance.