Home Entertainment. 

The third Sunday in September is celebrated throughout the Church as Genealogical Sunday. On September 21, 1823, an angel appeared to the Prophet Joseph Smith and instructed him in regard to the work for the dead and announced a speedy restoration of the keys of this work, which promises were realized on April 3, 1836, in the Kirtland temple. Friday, September 21, would be a fitting time to hold an Ancestors' Reunion. This must be a family party. Let each guest be costumed as an ancestor, or represent in some way one of their progenitors. The first game may be a guessing contest. When all the guests are properly classified, an hour may be spent in reminiscences of the past. The genealogist of the family should have her pencil and notebook handy and record any facts or traditions of importance. The following games by Clara R. Baker will prove entertaining and instructive: Each guest was first given two sheets of stiff paper cut in the form of an irregular tree-trunk and tied together with green ribbon. The first page bore the title "Some people I would like to find on my family tree." On the inside of this sheet was a list of twenty famous names arranged at random. On the opposite page the aspirants for family honors were asked to write the names in chronological order. The list given was as follows: 1, Moses; 2, Longfellow; 3, Napoleon; 4, Gladstone; 5, Socrates; 6, Solomon; 7, Abraham; 8, Columbus; 9, Dickens; 10, Dante; 11, Shakespeare; 16, St. Peter; 17, Queen Elizabeth; 18, Lincoln; 19, Milton, and 20, Charlemagne. The person whose list was most nearly correct was awarded a home-made booklet, humorously labeled, "Our Family Photographs," and containing small pictures of famous people. The guests were then told to ascertain by mental arithmetic how many direct ancestors each could claim in the ten generations immediately preceding her own. It will be doubted whether any person who first announced the correct answer, 2046, stood greatly in need of the figuring pad and pencil awarded her. Cards were now passed bearing the words, "What relations are they to you?" The hostess read aloud a series of complex relationships like those given below, allowing the guests a few moments each time to write the simple form: 

1. Your father's uncle's brother's sister? Great-aunt. 
2. Your aunt's mother's father's wife? Great-grandmother. 
3. Your mother's nephew's daughter's son? Third cousin. 
4. Your brother's son's sister's mother? Sister-in-law. 
5. Your sister-in-law's father-in-law's grandson? Nephew. 
6. Your sister's father's stepson's mother? Stepmother. 
7. Your uncle's father's only granddaughter? Yourself. 
8. Your brother-in-law's wife's grandmother's husband? Grandfather. 
9. Your cousin's father's father's daughter's daughter? First cousin. 
10. The granddaughter of the only son of your mother's mother-in-law? Niece. 

It was finally announced that each guest might secure a family tree for herself and that the leaves for it would be found scattered about the rooms. The guests suddenly became conscious that leaf-shaped cards bearing family names were peering forth from every possible hiding place. A scramble followed, in which the participants managed to secure from six to twelve leaves apiece. Each leaf bore one of the following names: Thompson, Adam, Andrews, Brown, Johnson, James, Davidson, Phillips, Peterson or Matthews.

The guests were told that the winner of the contest was to be, not the person holding the most cards, but the one possessing the most complete family tree, and that they might have ten minutes in which to exchange leaves if they desired. The leaves must be treated one at a time, and nobody must see the name until the leaf became his own. Of course, it immediately became the object of everybody to secure as many cards as possible bearing one particular name and rid themselves of all other names. When time was called it was announced that the person holding the name "Adam" was the winner. Only one card had been labeled "Adam," and in the effort to trade off all odd names, they had all been trying to get rid of it. Serve simple refreshments of autumn fruits, grape juice punch, popcorn and nuts.

The old-fashioned bazaar or fair means a great deal of work for small returns. A much better plan is to have a sale of some everyday article which everyone needs. An apron and cap sale will prove popular. Everyone will be willing to donate an apron or materials and nearly everybody will buy. Make aprons of all kinds, for children and grownups, dainty, ruffled and embroidered ones for afternoon wear and the big kitchen aprons needed by all home-makers. Serve light refreshments cafeteria style at so much per portion and have a little music, and a successful sale will be assured.

Calico Carnival. A variation from the usual fair would be a calico carnival. The invitation follows: "Consider yourself cordially constrained to be present at the correctly constructed calico carnival to be held at the Hall, September, 1917, at p. m. Admission 15 cents. "Supper Menu. One conglomerated circle (sandwich), one cup communicative chocolate, or one cup churned cream, one cider cured cucumber, one cup cold custard. "Ladies requested to wear calico gowns, gentlemen calico ties. "There will be for sale cheap, cunning, calico conveniences that will be a constant comfort. Carnival will conclude with a calico ball."

A Food Sale would prove popular. There should be tables or boards for canned goods, bottled fruit, pickles, cake and bread, winter vegetables and fruit. This should prove a winner if well advertised.

A Peddlers' Parade is a strong rival of fair booths on account of its novelty and because it permits the workers to circulate among the audience and seek out purchasers. Let the peddlers be dressed in different costumes. These may represent nationalities, or the days of the week, the various holidays, months of the year, or the flowers. Provide each with a large basket to carry their wares. Some may be sold at auction.

If you desire a floral fair, a morning glory, poppy, sweet pea or rose scheme of decoration may be used with the attendants in floral costumes. A Rainbow Fair would be pretty, with the booths trimmed with the colors of the rainbow. At its end if well planned and successfully carried out the workers might find the proverbial pot of gold.

A Chinese Laundry is novel as a variation of the fishpond. Tickets at 10c or 5c are sold by a "Chinaman," who circulates among the people. If the right one is chosen for this job he will be very popular with the little folks. A booth is fixed up as a Chinese laundry, where the children present their tickets and receive their prize package, which is wrapped up as a laundry bundle.

Try a Walking Grab Bag. This may be represented by a lady or man who is witty and original. The costume should contain pockets in all kinds of funny places high for the older children and low for the little folks. If the fair is held in a large hall, two people costumed differently, one a 5c and the other a 10c grab. The articles chosen to fill the pockets should be of a uniform value and as far as possible should be worth the money invested.

A box table containing articles of 25c value is another suggestion. Articles are collected from friends and are useful and fancy articles of value. These are wrapped in boxes of all sizes and sold. The fact that the articles cannot be seen until purchased lends an element of mystery which warrants quick sales and the quarters count up rapidly with the right person behind the table.

A Lemon or Orange Tree is another suggestion. Tie up gifts to represent the fruit chosen. Provide a short stepladder and a pair of blunt-pointed scissors and allow each child to mount and cut down the desired fruit. Here is a novel way to raise money by donation.

Select someone to represent the year, who, for the honor conferred, will contribute $1.00 to $5.00. This person must agree to find twelve people to represent the months, each to pay for that privilege 50c. Each month will find four people to represent the weeks; these pay 25c each. Each week will find seven people or days, each day to subscribe 10c. If each day will find twenty-four children to give one penny each and the chain is unbroken, a neat sum will be realized.

TO PATCH WALL PAPER. Wall paper should never be patched in a square, rectangular shape and must not be cut with knife or scissors, no matter how neatly or correctly the pattern is matched. If done in this way the patch will stare one out of countenance from the first. Professional paper hangers select a piece of paper considerably larger than the spot to be patched and, taking care that the pattern is accurately superimposed, tear out the patch in an irregular oval or circular shape. The edges must be torn off from the front backwards, so that the edge of the patch all around will be beveled toward the pattern perfectly matched. The irregular zigzag border will fade away into the rest of the design, and will not be noticed when dry.