Home Science Department. By Juliette I. Hyde. The Relief Society is pleased to co-operate with the Utah Idaho Sugar Company in offering prizes for the best display of preserves and dried fruits. We are very sure our sisters will profit by the opportunity afforded for placing their "toothsome" goodies on display. Not only are they given the privilege of exhibiting their fruits in their own county fairs, and receiving the prize which is offered by the Utah-Idaho Sugar Company, but they may also place the same exhibit with the State Fair, and receive the prize offered by the State Fair Association. In order that there may be no misunderstandings in the matter, please read very carefully all rules that regulate the prizes given through the Sugar Company. If you are in doubt as to any questions, you may write Bishop H. S. Cutler, Vermont Building, Room 410, Salt Lake City. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY OFFERS PRIZES. The Utah-Idaho Sugar Company aims to stimulate interest in the campaign for food conservation. To encourage a wider activity in the conservation of the Utah fruit crop, during the 1917 season, and also to stimulate a greater appreciation for the work of Utah artists, the Utah-Idaho Sugar Company has just announced a competitive contest of an unusual sort to run from June 15 to September 25. The contest is open to individuals and members of various societies, organizations, schools, and clubs, throughout the state, and handsome and appropriate prizes will be awarded for the best and most artistic display of fruits, jellies, preserves, etc., all of which are to be exhibited at the Utah State Fair. It is planned to include in the contest a large number of women's organizations, such as the various Relief Societies of the Church, all of the patriotic clubs and societies of the state, the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, the Sabbath schools, and Primary associations, as well as the universities, colleges, normal schools and public schools. The canning factories of Utah are also invited to enter the contest and the one putting up the most fruit will receive a handsome painting by a well-known Utah artist. The prizes include many gems of original art from the brush and pen of Utahns. In every case the prize has been carefully HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 521 selected, with the object of stimulating a greater love for the fine arts. It is pointed out that many Utah artists have won wide recognition wherever their work has been shown, at national and international art exhibitions. All successful competitors must submit to the Utah-Idaho Sugar Company their recipes followed in the fruit preserving. The recipes are to become the property of the sugar company. The prizes offered are as follows: RELIEF SOCIETY. A.

To the stake Relief Society which preserves the largest amount of fruit for charitable purposes, a painting, "Still Life, Fruits," by Mary Teasdel. B. To the stake Relief Society which dries the greatest amount of fruit, a painting by Lee Greene Richards. C. To the Relief Society member making the largest amount of: (1) Dried fruit, (2) Jam and jellies, (3) Fresh fruits, in each (4) class. Fruit juices, one copy of E. B. Wells' book of poems D. To the Relief Society member in Salt Lake county making the best display of preserved fruits, a leather hand bag, designed and executed by Ruth Harwood. DRYING FRUIT. We suggest the following method to those who possess Drying frames: Use a drying frame which may be made at home, constructed of very inexpensive materials, the size of the same to be determined by the size of space you wish it to occupy. Take four pieces of two by four, fasten them together very securely, tacking on the surface the chicken netting No. 2 over which place a piece of white mosquito netting. This sort of a frame gives a perfect ventilation from the bottom surface, as well as from the top from which place the fruit and vegetables do not require so much care as the fruit that is dried on boards or tables. It is well to have a piece of muslin or netting to cover the fruit on the upper surface in order that it may be protected from flies and insects. We suggest to those who have not the facilities for canning fresh corn, to dry it according to pioneer methods, as there will be a great market for the same. It is easily handled and shipped and less expensive and keeps indefinitely if kept in closed bottles or tin cans away from moths. Some seal the bottles. EDITORIAL Entered as second class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah.