	DRESS FOR FARMERS' WIVES.

MRS. S. B. BRUCE has recently read a paper
before the Washington Grange of Patrons
of Husbandry from which we make the fol-
lowing extracts:—I have prepared a few
suggestions conveying my own peculiar
ideas, hoping that you will bear with me
when I have a woman’s work to do, and my
time is pretty much occupied about my own
household affairs. In the first place, let us
dress within our means, and for comfort and
convenience, instead of fashion. First in
order let us dress the head. God in his
infinite wisdom covered the head with hair,
and the good book says that long hair is an
ornament to a woman, and since God’s works
are perfect and no work of art can compare
with his, let us then arrange our natural hair
in a tasty manner, and not let fashion load
our heads with hemp or borrowed hair.
Then the covering for the head; of what
real account is the present style, except for
ornament. Our husbands and brothers wear
a hat that protects their heads and faces
from the hot rays of the sun in summer, and
in winter a fur cap or hat which is both warm
and comfortable to shield them from the cold
blasts, while we place upon our heads a cu-
pola, erroneously called a bonnet or hat, held
in position by guy ropes and stays, and if
we wish for comfort we must carry a para-
sol to protect our heads from the scorching
rays of the sun in summer, and in winter,
over this cupola, wrap some extra fixings to
keep out the cold, which is neither handy
nor convenient, especially when the team is
waiting for us. Oh for the good, old-fash-
ioned days when a bonnet was made to cov-
er the head, light and cool for summer, and
warm and comfortable for winter. I could
hardly adopt the quaker styles, yet I think
they are far preferable to the fashions of the
present day. Perhaps a medium between
the two would suit my taste.
	And our dress, of whatever fabric it may
be composed, let it be made in a becoming
style, easy fitting and convenient, and not
counterfeit deformity by carrying a pack
upon our backs to the inconvenience of our-
selves, and to the utter disgust of all sensible
men and women. Deformities will come to
us fast enough at best; let us, then not tempt
our Maker by ridiculously attiring ourselves,
lest He in his vengence may deal with us
or our offsprings. If we had been born thus
deformed, Oh, what a pity it would have
been! then why do it for fashion’s sake?
And then again, how much more convenient
it would be, if, when a dress is made, it
would stay made and look well until it is
worn out, and how much it would lessen our
labors. And then how much good could be
done with the time and means now spent
in useless display. My tastes are plain and
simple. I consider such an over-loaded,
puffed out concern as you see at the present
time for a dress, not only ridiculous but
vulgar.
	The question arises, What are you to do
with the girls? they want to dress in style
or as others do. I will answer, as the twig
is bent so the tree inclines.
	And our under dress, let it be sufficiently
warm, as many of the aches and pains that
we have can be traced to insufficient cloth-
ing. Let our shoes be such as will keep our
feet dry and warm, as our health depends
much upon this point. I would recommend
a thick woolen stocking for winter, and cot-
ton only for summer wear. And, finally, let
our whole apparel be for comfort and con-
venience. Let there be a variety in our
wardrobe, for variety is the spice of life.
	These views I would recommend for the
following reasons;—First, It would lessen

[Column 2]
the burden of many who now find it hard
to maintain their place in society. It would
lessen the force of temptations which often
lead men to barter honesty and honor for
display. If there was less strife in dress, it
would enable people in moderate circum-
stances to go more into society. It would
enable all classes to attend church. It would
save valuable time. It would relieve our
means from a serious pressure, and thus
enable us to do more for good enterprises.
						     R. N. Y.


