PROVO.

	WE congratulate you on being linked by
iron rail with the jarring, traveling, trading
world. We had our reporter's pencil all
sharpened to pay tribute to Directors and
General Officials of the road, as well as Con-
ductors, &c. But as
		NOTE OF INVITATION
failed to reach reporter, she says she knows
nothing about the courteous manners, effi-
cient labors or eloquent speeches that she
had on the end of her pencil, before her fond
hopes of being invited to participate in your
late celebration were blighted.
			REPORTER
thinks EXPONENT ought to pronounce said
officials or semi-officials, or whoever engin-
eered the occasion, ungallant and impolite.
It is
			GRATIFYING
to note that when we have a spare V we can
come to your newly linked city, greet friends,
sponge our dinner and return home to the 
evening meal.
			TIMES CHANGE,
so do modes of conveyance and modes of
thought, and in the "good time coming"
EXPONENT'S reporters will have no occasion
to complain of slights offered to the paper
they represent.
				ALTA.
	Alta City was thrown into consternation
Sunday evening by the cry of fire, which
was found bursting from a board building a
block to the right of Main street; the flames
rapidly devoured the building and its con-
tents. As soon as the fire had abated a little
search was made, and two human bodies
found under circumstances that led to the
supposition of murder, and fire to consum-
mate the
TERRIBLE DEAH OF A FALLEN MAN AND
			WOMAN,
Captain Hart and Madam Miller. We reflect
a moment on the sad tragedy, and mentally
ask, Who was Captain Hart? He was, in all
probability, some fond mother's son, whose
relatives and personal friends mourn his loss
and deplore his untimely and criminal death.
Who was Madam Miller? Sad to write, she
was a fallen, degraded, besotted woman,
whose early life was one of purity, beauty
and promise. Her version of the reason of
her accepting a life of degradation was, that
in her early married life, her husband made
her the subject of unjust jealousy. We
cannot admit that any cause could furnish
justification for her lamentable career.
	COTTONWOOD KANYON
has been scourged with characters of the
above class, until a scourge seems to be visi-
ble in the atmosphere. If nought but the
devouring element of fire can cleanse Alta,
let the ashes, as far as possible bury the re-
membrance of her past pollutions. We have
			FRIENDS
in Alta and on its surrounding hills, and
we look hopefully for the dispelling of the
cloud and a return of moral and financial
sunshine.					S. M. K.


