STILL AGREEABLE.

THE "Balance" concludes that enough has
passed between it and the EXPONENT upon
the subject of polygamy. It says:
	"Unless we are tempted beyond what we are
able to bear, by our Mormon friend of the EX-
PONENT, these are the last words we shall have
to say upon polygamy, as we fear we shall tax
the patience of our readers."
	Now, as we have not the least desire to
tempt the "Balance" in any conceivable
manner, to anything unpleasant for itself or
unprofitable to its readers, we will proceed
to answer its questions and remarks, so far
as we consider them in the slightest degree
applicable, or holding any connection with
the subject under discussion, as plainly and
candidly as our abilities will permit. And
then we are as willing that the discussion
should close as we were that it should com-
mence. We are asked:
	“Did Joseph Smith claim that the doctrine
of plurality of wives was revealed to him?
Persons who were with the Mormons at Nau-
voo, have told us that Joseph Smith never
taught the doctrine—that it was first broached
by Brigham Young, and that some of the mem-
bers prophecied trouble when he preached his
first sermon on the subject; and we have al-
ways understood that polygamy was the cause
of the separation of the Jo Smith Mormons
from the Brighamites— at any rate they do
not practice it.”
	The testimonies of hundreds of most re-
liable men, and women also,who were famil-
iar with the life and teachings of the mar-
tyred prophet, Joseph Smith, are given in
connection with his own inspired words,
which have been faithfully recorded, to
prove that the law of Celestial marriage,
embracing plurality of wives, was given by
divine revelation through him.
	We are aware that some persons who were
with him at Nauvoo say he never taught


[Column 1]
the doctrine; while others who had belonged
to the Church, but separated themselves
from it before his death, declare that they
forsook him and the cause they had espoused
because he taught this doctrine. He did
teach and practise polygamy, and it was re-
ceived by many honest hearts through his
teachings.
	The "Balance" next asks if we can tell
"How Joseph Smith came to name the sect
Mormons, or his bible the Book of Mormon?"
	Joseph, himself, under the direction of
his master, Jesus, designated his followers
as "The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints." They are generally known as
"Mormons," however, because of their be-
lief in the Book of Mormon—so written
upon the plates from which Joseph transla-
ted the work—the name "Mormon," among
the ancient prophets by whom the plates
were made, and the records they contained
engraven upon them, signifying "More
Good."
	Speaking of marriage for eternity, our
Chicago friend queries thus:
	"Are a majority of our Mormon sisters anx-
ous that their connubial relations should last
throughout eternity? Would not many of
them be glad to look forward to death as a
blessed release?"
	We believe we can safely answer the for-
mer question in the affirmative; a great ma-
jority of the Mormon women prefer being
married by the law of God rather than by
laws of men, which should be sufficient evi-
dence.
	The other question is one which may
quite as appropriately be asked concerning
wives in monogamy. In our experience, we
have seen more unhappiness in monogamic,
than we have ever known in polygamic
families.
	Our friend thinks if we accept the Bible
and its doctrine, the plan of marriage for
time and for all eternity is not allowable.
As Jesus answered to those who asked him
concerning a certain woman who had been
married to seven brothers in succession, "In
heaven they neither marry nor are given in
marriage, but are as the angels of heaven."
This saying, however, is in perfect accord-
ance with the revelations given to the Pro-
phet Joseph, in relation to the marriage cov-
enant. If in heaven, there might be mar-
rying and giving in marriage, there would
be no necessity for the ceremony pronounced
here to reach farther than the extent of
mortal life. But as no such ceremony can
be performed there, it is vastly important
that it be properly attended to before en-
tering that sphere.
	If it might be supposed, that a country
was upon the earth, where it was under-
stood that to marry was not possible—a
country most desirable as a dwelling place,
but from which no person ever could come
back—would it not look absurdly foolish for
a crowd of young people, of both sexes, to
emigrate thither unmarried, or united in
couples by an order which remained good
only till they reached that country? Par-
ticularly after there had been directions
sent by the governor of the country, inform-
ing them of a plan by which they might be-
come true husbands and wives, and remain
so there, as well as in the country they were
leaving. And would not those who observed
the instructions of the governor, if there
were such, appear far more discreet in judg-
ment than those who did otherwise? In
our estimation they would, even if there
were many more very wise and good women
than men—as there certainly is in the world
to-day—and if; in consequence of a com-
mandment from the governor, the few
[Column 2]
worthy men should unite in marriage with
the many worthy women.
	We next find the following little sentence
in the "Balance," which is worthy of no-
tice:
	"Just how the apparent tangles of our earth-
life will be straightened out, we cannot say;
but if we seek to know the truth, and do the
very best we know, not recklessly making these
tangles more complex, God will doubtless help
us unravel them."
	God has indeed, instituted measures by
which all the mistakes and misunderstand-
ings of His children may be rectified. But
they must diligently "seek to know the
truth and do the very best they know."
The great Father has, in His infinite wis-
dom and mercy, devised a plan of salva-
tion, known as the Everlasting Gospel, which
the Latter-day Saints joyfully accept in its
fullness, and by which all those of His chil-
dren, who will listen to, and learn of Him,
may not only be saved, but exalted in his
presence. But he will only teach, and give
them power to act—the labors they must
themselves perform.
	We have a word to say in relation to the
following:
	"A lurking fear has always beset us that there
might possibly be physiological reasons in sup-
port of polygamy, but we are pleased to find a
statement by one who is regarded as a standard
authority by the medical world—Dr. Napheys,
A. M., M. D., member of the Philadelphia
Medical Society and corresponding member of
the Gynaecological Society of Boston, and au-
thor of the "Physical Life of Woman"—that
	The man who has several wives has usu-
ally a weakly offspring, principally males. Na-
ture attempts to check polygamy by reducing
the number of females, and failing in this, by
enervating the whole stock. The Mormons of
Utah would soon sink into a state of Asiatic
effeminancy were they left to themselves."
	Has any person, learned or otherwise, a
right to impose upon a world, whether igno-
rant or intelligent, the vindication of a
thing for truth, which he has not carefully
tested and proven by close observation to be
correct?
	The idea that weakly offspring, either in-
tellectual or physical, is the result of poly-
gamic marriage, is repeatedly confuted by
learned and intelligent people, who come
here and witness for themselves, and com-
pare the results of this system with those
of monogamy. And again, Dr. Napheys
is certainly laboring under a sadly mistaken
opinion when he concludes that the children
of the polygamist are principally males. A
sight of the multitudes of young, blooming
misses who throng the Mormon communi-
ties, should be an evidence to any one, ob-
serving for the truth's sake, or even out of
curiosity, that the statement of that learned
Dr., quoted by the "Balance", is most de-
cidedly erroneous. But if examples were
wanted as a proof of the fallacy of his
words, we need look no farther than into
some of the largest and most prominent
families of Utah, to find illustrations by
which to judge. And the decision could
not be other than that Dr. Napheys had
made a blunder, and that those trusting his
assertions as being correct, were deceived.
	And now we come to an article headed
"An Ally." in which the "Balance" repub-
lishes the "New North West's" article on
polygamy, to which we referred some time
since. We were led to presume that our
replies to Mrs. Duniway were satisfactory
to herself, as she has not touched the subject
again, to our knowledge. But the "Balance"
makes a mistake in one instance, which we
would hardly feel justified in passing with-
out correction. It gives one of our answers
to Mrs. D. in altogether a wrong sense, mak-
ing, in reality no sense at all of it; and
[Column 3]
leaving our explanation to the question quo-
ted, which we gave in the subsequent num-
ber, unnoticed. It says:
	"In answer to Mrs. D.'s question "Why
religious revelations always come to men,"the
EXPONENT asks, "Why when Laban gave Ra-
chel to Jacob, he did not provide another hus-
band for Leah."
	Our question here quoted, was offered as
an argument in part, against the absurd no-
tion advanced by the "New North West,"
that if it was right for a man to have more
wives than one, it was also right, and as
reasonable for a woman to have more than
one husband. While in answer to Mrs. D.'s
question. "Why religious revelations always
come to men," we gave a very different an-
swer, which appeared in number 9 of the
present volume of the EXPONENT.


