HOME AFFAIRS.

	IN REMOVING its composition and press
work from the office of the "Salt Lake Her-
ald," the EXPONENT, in simple honesty,
owes and extends many and sincere thanks
for the kind treatment it has there received;
for courteous encouragement and assistance
offered when most needed, and the good
feelings always, and still manifested in its
behalf. We might particularize, but feel-
ing that our gentlemanly friends would pre-
fer that we make no such demonstrations,
we forbear to mention, though we do not
forget any favor which has been so kindly
extended.
	OUR KIND readers will, we trust, accept
our apology for the lack of punctuality at-
tending our present issue, when they learn
that the delay has been unavoidable. The
printing of the EXPONENT, which has hith-
erto been done at the "Salt Lake Herald"
office, has, since the last issue, been transfer-
red to the office of the "Deseret News,"
where the type setting will, hereafter, be
done by Young Ladies. And as the present
issue is a specimen of their work in that
line, our readers will be able to jndge if they
will likely be satisfied with the change
which has taken place. The making ar-
rangements for, and completion of this
change, has taken up so much time that our
first of December number reaches our pat-
rons at a late date—an occurrence which we
very much regret and truly hope will not
again transpire.
	THE "JUVENILE Instructor" is to be en-
larged to twelve pages, and is to be publish-
ed without additional charge. Parents
wishing to make their little ones handsome
Christmas or New Year's presents, can do no
better than to give them two dollars to sub-
scribe for this valuable little work.


ONE of the most enjoyable occasions we
have witnessed this season, was an "append-
age" to a Birthday Party, recently given by
Mrs. M. I. Horne, The guests comprised
most of the leading ladies of this city, and
instead of careless jesting and light conver-
sation, which are so common at social gath-
erings, the afternoon and evening were spent
in a sort of intellectual,blessing and prayer
meeting. Among the Birthday presents
sent in, was a finely expressive, original
poem, written by one of the worthy lady's
sons, who is now a resident of Beaver City.


THE PIUTE QUEEN,—The far West boasts
of a modern Pocahontas, in the person of
Sarah Winnemucca, the daughter of the
chief of the Piutes, which Indian tribe do
her homage, as monarchial nations do their
queens and kings. She is said to have ac-
quired some education, reads English, writes
poetry, wears the dress of civilized femi-
ninity, and is reported friendly to the
whites.

	STORMS.—A smooth sea never made a skill-
ful mariner, neither do uninterrupted pros-
perity and success qualify for usefulness and
happiness. The storms of adversity, like
those of the ocean, rouse the faculties and
fortitude of the voyager. The martyrs of
the ancient times, in bracing their minds
to outward calamities, acquired a loftiness of
purpose and moral heroism worth a lifetime
of softness and security.
	A fond father in Rochester, says The
"Courier," had suspected his daughter of
having stolen moonlight walks with a lover
whom he had refused her seeing, and, in
coming home the other night at a late hour,
thought he saw his daughter's arm linked
in with the hated lover's. The indignant
father took the young man by the collar, and
was giving him a good shaking, when he
found he had hold of the wrong man, and 
soon learned that the parties were a highly
respectable married couple, who were com-
ing home from prayer meeting.

	At the students' annual debate at Re-
gent's Park College, England, March 25th,
many prominent Baptists were present and
took part in the discussion of the question,
Ought women to preach? A young lady
closed the discussion in an eloquent speech
—and the question was decided in the af-
firmative.

	WHEN AND HOW TO SING.—A writer on
the preservation of the voice says, the most
important things to be observed are the con-
ditions of the body when singing, and the
manner of singing. Never sing when in-
disposed, particularly in the organs of the
voice; never sing immediately after run-
ning fast, or after riding, lifting, or similar
bodily exertion; when the voice is not at
command, is wavering, incorrect, or panting,
which may have very bad consequences
withal. Never sing immediately before or
after meals, for it hurts both the health and
voice together. Never talk or sing too long;
it will raise an irritation, a burning, a prick-
ling in the throat or chest, which are always
signs of the approach of indisposition. Du-
ring singing stand free and easy, and do not
hold anything before the mouth which
might prevent the free flow of the breath,
and thus weaken the chest and deaden the
tone. The chest must always be held freely
erect, that the lungs may expand, strength-
ening the breath and giving more ease to
the song. Never, or at least very seldom
touch the extreme limits of your power of
voice. Frequent repitition of this over-
singing might produce a sudden and entire


loss of voice. Do not sing in a place either
too cold or too warm, so as to lose the proper
proportion of warmth between the breath
inhaled and exhaled. A singer must be
more moderate than anybody else in eating
and drinking, for the sake of the preserva-
tion of his voice: and this precious treasure
is well worth such a privation. This is
particularly applicable to tenor, soprano and
alto voices; the base is not so delicate.


