		DEDICATED TO A. E. T.

My soul is strangely stirred this Sabbath morn,
Within her silent chambers Memory sings,
My thoughts seem of ecstatic rapture born,
The air is sweet as fanned by angel wings;
Thus cheered, through Mem’ry’s solemn haunts I’ll stray
And seek the grave which in my soul was made;
From that sad sepulchre I’ll roll the stone away,
Where youth’s bright dreams so long ago were laid.

In childhood sweet, one chosen friend was mine;
Years coming found, and flying left us true;
Time only made our spirits closer twine
And o’er us shed sweet Faith’s ambrosial dew.
But when our childish feet approached the door
Where womanhood, the lovely, holds the key,
Another came and, where no doubt had been before,
Sowed cold distrust in her warm heart for me.

Alas! love, ’twas a bitter thing to learn
That our twin spirits thus could sundered be,
And oft deep scorn would in my bosom burn
When you as some cold stranger looked on me.
But ah! my love was rooted far too deep
To be thus rudely torn and thrust away,
Its anguished moans disturbed my fitful sleep,
Its pleading voice rang in my ear by day.

It urged, you must BELIEVE you had just cause
(Though I, perhaps, its nature ne’er might know,)
To harbor doubt of me; ’twere well to pause
Nor judge in haste: 'twas that which wounded so.
Love conquered; and long years I meekly bore
The cross of your unmerited disdain.
Still hoping truth revealed would bring once more
My heart’s lost idol to my side again.

My hope was vain! for soon pale Death drew near
And claimed in youth’s sweet pride and glorious bloom
My sister soul, who, void of guilty fear,
Descended meekly to the grave’s soft gloom.
Your cherished friends received with your farewell
Sweet words to save fond Memory from despair,
But me no dove-winged message came to tell
You e’en forgave my unknown error there.

None ever shed such bitter tears as mine
On this cold stone above thy bright young head,
Hope’s fairy light was quenched, no more to shine
On my sad soul for silent are the dead.
O cruel stone! to hide those glorious eyes
Which kindled to all truth, save only mine;
Now must they never pierce the deep disguise
Which round my love did envious falsehood twine.

So mourned I deeming all forever lost,
In my blind grief forgetting God is good;
But whence, upon my soul so sorrow-tost,
Comes this sweet peace in bright, celestial flood?
Hast learned, at last, the truth, my peerless one,
That changeless, guileless was my love for you?
And in that fairer life, so late begun,
Dost pay with love the sorrow I’ve passed through?

Oh, God be thanked! in other life than this
Deception cannot find a lurking place,
And, heart to heart, we two may bathe in bliss
And see and know each other face to face.
I seem to hear her low voice in my ear,
To feel her hands caress my lowly head;
Oh, happy day! that led my footsteps here,
Through these sweet walks and silent aisles to tread.
