FROM DIXIE.
	ST. GEORGE, UTAH, Nov. 25th, 1873.
DEAR EXPONENT:—
	Our warm sunshine and balmy air are
delightful luxuries, after returning from the
busy North, with its rain, snow and pinch-
ing frost. And we appreciate them all the
more, since our late return to dear, sunny
Dixie, where the fragrant flowers are still
blooming, the hum of the bee is heard dai-
ly, and the joyous, ringing laughter of the
merry-making children is echoed from the
hillsides, as rosy and barefooted, they scram-
ble about in search of new pleasures and
varied amusements. There are, however,
now, some four or five schools in our city,
which captivate most of the big "little ones,"
and make things more quiet, except at re-
cess and noonings. Our men folks are mak-
ing many improvements here this year, and
the music of saw, hammer and plane echoes
daily around us.
	We have still in bloom many hardy and
late-blooming plants, such as petunias, phlox,
marigolds, verbenas, Chinese chrysanthe-
mums, antirrhinums, &c., which usually
continue to bloom until Christmas. Al-
though the taste for flowers is improving,
we often wonder that so many deny them-
selves the pleasure of so cheap a luxury, and
one so easily attained. A few pots, or
little boxes, a sunny place in a window; a
trifle or nothing for the plants, common va-
rieties of which, any florist or gardner will
freely give those who ask; and one may have
flowers, and the green verdure of plants each
day through the winter: then in spring they
may be planted around the door for renewal.
"A thing of beauty" and "A joy forever."
To have these floral companions is a light
labor of love, and lovers of flowers may stu-
dy their own tastes, and have the varieties
they most fancy; for if out of season for the
plants, seed of quick blooming plants may
be sown whose flowers may soon adorn their
parlors, kitchens and boudoirs.
	We always doubt the gentleness and re-
finement of any woman, old or young, lady
or housemaid, who does not exhibit a taste
and love for flowers: we sincerely pity chil-
dren, who are raised without the daily in-
spiration of these heaven-sent blessings—
the smiling flowers.				FLORA.


Susan B. Anthony and Olympia Brown
are announced as speakers at the Annual
Convention of the Connecticut Woman suf-
frage Association, at New Haven.
	Mrs. Ellen S. Tupper of Des Moines,
Iowa, has assumed the charge of the "Na-
tional Bee Journal," as editor and proprie-
tor.
	The women of Rochester, New York, pay
taxes on seven millions of dollars.


