	BY MISS ELIZA R. SNOW.

	The subject of the resurrection of the dead, 
although of inexpressible interest to all of the 
human family, is very little understood by 
man in the flesh, and will not be explained 
until he who holds the keys pertaining to it 
for this dispensation, shall develop its prin-
ciples. 
	Although we cannot penetrate the cloud
of obscurity which envelops this subject; 
knowing, as we do, that death is certain, it
is natural that we should enquire in the 
depths of our souls, What and where is our
future? Shall the spirit and the body again be
united? Who, that does not altogether ig-
nore the idea of a resurrection of the body, 
but experiences at times, a bewilderment of 
thought concerning it?
	Realizing that, in accordance with estab-
lished laws of nature, the substances which 
now compose these bodies of ours, will, 
after death, become identified parts of in-
numerable other human bodies, also be incor-
porated into the bodies of beasts, insects, 
fowls &c. and through them bequeathed to
others; the question naturally arises, 'How
can they be again restored to us? And, if 
restored to us, from what source will the 
deficiency be supplied to other bodies?'	This is a problem which neither the rules
of science nor the wisdom of man, unaided
by revelation, can solve–a problem which
infidelity very plausably applies as a settled
refutation to the doctrine of the resurrec-
tion–one in which the worldly wise phi-
losopher finds a palpable inconsistency, and 
one which in the face of sound reason
amounts to the impossibility of a reorgan-
ization of a human body: for what reflecting
mind does not see that the laws of nature
which apply to the decomposition of the
elements which constitute the living body, 
preclude a possibility of the same material 
being restored, at one and the same time, 
to all bodies of which it has comprised com-
ponent parts in millions of instances, at dif-
ferent times; and, believing God to be a
consistent Being, and acting in accordance
with eternal, unchanging laws, and admit-
ting that these laws are harmonious- that
the higher operate in consonance with, and
are never antagonistic to those of a lower
order, is it a matter of surprise that think-
ing people of a highly intelligent class, in
many instances, yield to infidelity and adopt
the humiliating conclusion that the resur-
rection is only a phantom of the brain: while
others, with little or no reflection, content 
themselves by admitting that, "with God 
all things are possible," without questioning 
in what manner, or by what means the re-
sult will be effected. 
	His communications to, and the dealings
of God with man, so far as they are made
known to us, are characterized as those of
an intelligent Being conversing and dealing
with intelligent beings of the same order, 
but in a vastly lower state of development. 
	In His works, order is every where strik-
ingly apparent, and we find law, or rather
codes of law regulating and governing, not
only every department of life, but also every
grade and variety of matter. From the 
smallest speck that glitters and dances in 
the bright sunshine, to the glowing galaxy 
above us, representing system on system of 
worlds in the mighty distance, order is
everywhere manifest. Each department, 
whether of life or inanimate matter, is gov-
erned by laws particularly adapted to the 
peculiarities of its own identity, and in regu-
lar gradation from the smallest atom and
the most diminutive animalcule to the high-
est intelligences above; and all, whether 
assigned to different localities or interming-
ling in countless varieties- all operating in 
harmony, and not interfering with, or tres-
passing on each other. 
	Just so far as those laws are developed to
our understandings we pronounce them nat-
ural principles; and what, with us consti-
tutes a miracle, is nothing more nor less
than our ignorance of the process or law by
which the result is produced: for instance,
when our Savior in Cana of Galilee, chang-
ed water into wine, it is evident that he 
manufactured the wine through the agency 
of chemical laws of a higher order than
those who taught in the schools, hence the peo-
ple were filled with astonishment, for to
them, the performance was a miracle, they
probably being as ignorant of the laws
through which the result was obtained, as 
we now are concerning the resurrection of 
the dead. 
	In relation to the objections urged against
the reorganizing of the human body, we 
are in  possession of a very important and 
beautiful principle which pours a flood of 
light into the mind—obviates a heretofore
insurmountable difficulty, and disarms infi-
delity of its strongest plea against the resur-
rection, and puts impossibility to silence.
	By this we are instructed that the resurrec-
tion of the body is independent of all gross, 
divisible and transferable matter, and this
removes every rational objection against the
reunion of body and spirit, based on the in-
controvertible laws of nature pertaining to
the decomposition of the body, and the sub-
sequent transformations and reproductions
of the material of which it was composed. 
These are substances borrowed for this pro-
bationary use—to subserve the necessities 
of this mortal existence—to render us tangi-
ble to gross tangability, and for which, after
death, our bodies will have no further use.
	As soon as the spirit leaves the body, and
frequently before, nature's great work of
decomposition commences, and continues
till every particle of gross, volatile matter
is disengaged and by natural laws of affinity
passes into other forms, combining with oth-
er substances through an affinitude of
changes; and co-operating in an endless va-
riety of reproductions: as, for instance, the
grass that grows over the grave incorporates
a portion of the gross substance escaping
from the decaying body beneath: the cow, 
the sheep and the goose devour the grass
which, through the natural laws of nourish-
ment produces flesh—people eat the flesh of 
the cow, sheep and goose, and thus we may
trace the same identical matter, perhaps 
divided and sub-divided into infinitessimal
particles and passing into every form of hu-
man, brutal, insect, vegetable, and atmos-
pheric existence- going onward from gen-
eration to generation. 
	But thanks to God for the key which solves
the mystery. Every organized human 
body, independent of the spirit, (which is a 
separate organization) is composed of two
distinct classes or grades of matter, and in
such mutual combination as to subserve the 
purposes of this lower existence. One is
gross, volatile—subject to change and decay
through a precarious union of earth, air, fire
and water—tangible to mortal sight and
touch, and subject to all the laws of decom-
position. The other is pure, invisible, in-
tangible and capable of resisting every law 
of infraction or dissolubility. This, when
the spirit leaves the body, remains INTACT—
never being incorporated with other bodies
or substances. This is the precious material
that will be resurrected in perfect form, and 
compose the immortal tabernacle of the im-
mortal spirit. 
	It is well understood that resurrected be-
ings are invisible to these gross organs of
sight except when they are quickened by
immortal vision—that if the dead  were
brought forth within viewing distance of us,
we should not see them. Why not? The
resurrected body being composed of this
pure material, can only be seen by organs of
sight formed of the same pure matter, un-
clogged with gross substance.
	While the gross portion is disorganizing
and reorganizing, being perpetually chang-
ing and in motion—while the disembodied
spirit is associating in the world above; the
pure substance, the precious germ of an
immortal tabernacle, the jewel's casket,
quietly sleeps in the bosom of mother Earth,
awaiting the eternal mandate, which, in
accordance with the higher code the celestial
law, shall reunite it w[---] the joyous spirit
filled with eternal intelligence, no more to
be separated.
	The Earth also, combines in its present
organization, both of the above mentioned
classes of elements; and [---] well as man, will
yet experience a process of purifiation
before it can become the h[--]itation and ever-
lasting inheritance of resurrected, immor-
tal, embodied intelligen[----] "The elements
shall melt with fervent heat." After hav-
ing passed the the purifying ordeal of fire, and
having been cleansed from all combustible
and volatile properties, the earth will pass
from its present orbit, to the position among
the creations of God, from which it has fall-
en in  consequence of man's transgression:
and then will that prediction of our Savior
be fully realized—"The meek shall inherit 
the earth."


Boston requires her entire Fire Depart-
ment to sign the total abstinence pledge.
	Richter is painting a portrait of Maria
Alexandrovna of Russia, which is to be giv-
en to her future mother-in-law, Queen
Victoria.


[Column 1]

