		ASKING FOR MONEY.

ON first reading the following, which we clip
from "The Woman's Journal," it did not strike
us as being anything particularly appropriate
for the consideration of husbands in general;
and until we had complied with a request to
read it aloud in the presence of some half
dozen experienced ladies, and heard their united
opinions that it was exactly the right thing to
be presented to most men, we did not imagine
one young husband, who, since the day of their
marriage, has had the good judgment to hand
his wife a liberal share of all his earnings, not
merely for safe keeping, but as her own, so
great an exception among men. We are pleased
to allege, however, that there is one such exam-
ple, and hope, if there are but few such now,
that the many will take pattern by the few;
for as it not only saves a wife the annoyance of
asking for money, but the husband the annoy-
ance of being asked also, it is most consistent
with justice and harmony in family life.
	One of the very best wives and mothers I
have ever known once said to me, that when-
ever her daughters should be married, she
should stipulate in their behalf with their hus-
bands for a regular sum of money to be paid
them, at certain intervals, for their personal
expenditures. Whether this sum was to be
larger or smaller was a matter of secondary
importance,—that must depend on the income
and the style of living—but the essential thing
was that it should come to the wife regularly,
so that she should no more have to make a
special request for it than her husband would
have to ask her for a dinner. This lady's own
husband was, as I happened to know, of a most
generous disposition, was devotedly attached
to her, and denied her nothing. She herself
was a most accurate and careful manager.
There was everything in the household to make
the financial arrangements flow smoothly. Yet
she said to me, "I suppose no man can possibly
understand how a sensitive woman shrinks
from ASKING for money. If I can prevent it,
my daughters shall never have to ask for it.
If they do their duty as wives and mothers
they have a right to their share of the joint
income, within reasonable limits; for, certain-
ly, no money could buy the services they ren-
der. Moreover they have a right to a share in
determining what those reasonable limits are."
	Now it so happened that I had myself gone
through an experience which enabled me per-
fectly to comprehend this feeling. In early life
I was for a time in the employ of a kind friend
who paid me a fair salary but at no definite
periods; I was at liberty to ask him for money
whenever I needed it. This seemed to me, in
advance, a most agreeable arrangement; but I
found it quite otherwise. It proved to be
very disagreeable to ask for money;—it made
every dollar seem a special favor; it brought up
all kinds of misgivings, as to whether he could
spare it without inconvenience, whether he
really thought my services worth it, and so on.
My employer was a thoroughly upright and
noble man and I was much attached to him.
I do not know that he ever refused or demurred
when I asked for money. The annoyance was
simply in the process of asking, and this be-
came so great that I often underwent serious
inconvenience rather than ask. Finally, at the
year's end, I surprised my friend very much by
saying that I would accept, if necessary, a lower
salary, on condition that it should be paid on
regular days, and as a matter of business. The
wish was at once granted, without the reduc-
tion; and my employer probably never knew
what a relief it was to me.
	Now if a young man is liable to feel this pride
and reluctance towards a mere employer, it is
easy to understand how many women may feel
the same even in regard to a husband. And I
fancy that those who feel it most are often the
most conscientious and high-minded women.
It is unreasonable to say of such persons "Too
sensitive! Too fastidious!" For it is this very
quality of finer sensitiveness which men effect
to prize in a woman and wish to protect at all
hazards. The very fact that a husband is gen-
erous; the very fact that his income is limited;
—these may bring in conscience and gratitude
to increase the restraining influence of pride,
and make the wife less willing to ask money of
such a husband than if he were a rich man or

[Column 2]
a mean one. The only dignified position in
whicha  man can place a wife is to treat her
at least as well as he would treat a housekeeper
and give her the comfort of a perfectly clear
and definite arrangement as to money matters.
She will not then be under the necessity of
nerving herself to solicit from him as a favor,
what she really needs and has a right to spend.
Nor will she be torturing herself on the other
side, with the secret fear lest she has asked too
much, and more than they can really spare. She
will, in short, be in the position of a woman
and a wife, not of a child or a toy.
	I have carefully avoided using the word
"allowance," in what I have said; because the
word seems to imply the untrue and mean as-
sumption that the money is all the husband's,
to give or withhold as he will. Yet I have
heard this sort of talk from men who were liv-
ing on a wife's property or a wife's earnings;
from men such as keepers of boarding houses,
who worked a little while their wives worked
hard,—and from men, such as farmers who
worked hard and made their wives work hard-
er. Even in cases where the wife has no direct
part in the money making, the indirect part she
performs, if she takes faithful charge of her
household, is so essential, so beyond compensa-
tion in money, that it is an utter shame and
impertinance in the husband when he speaks
of "giving" money to his wife as if it were an
act of favor. It is no more an act of favor than
when the business manager of a firm pays out
money to the unseen partner who directs the
indoor business or runs the machinery. Be the
joint income more or less, the wife has a claim
to her honorable share, and that, as a matter of
right, without the daily ignominy of sending
in a petition for it.			T. W. H.


