A GIRL HERO.

	Acts of heroism are not alone performed
by men. They are not limited to battle fields
or to the deck of sinking vessels. Lottie
Dougherty, of Millville, New Jersey, a
young school girl, studied telegraphing last
summer, and in August accepted a situa-
tion at Randor, a station on the Central Penn-
sylvania Railroad, boarding at Eagle Sta-
tion, a mile or more distant. One evening,
a thunderstorm came up. The lightning
tiruck the instrument and burned out the
magnet. She supplied another and was
ready for business. Going to the door she
noticed by the light of a flash of lightning,
that a large tree had been uprooted by the
storm and blown across the track. An ex-
press train was due in a few minutes, and
local trains would follow it. She compre-
hended the situation in a moment, and op-
posed by several men in the station, she
seized a signal lamp, ran through the fear-
ful storm up the track, and swung her lamp
till she heard the engineer whistle down
brakes. The speed of the train was checked,
so that the cars were not thrown off the
track, though the locomotive struck the
tree with such violence as to hurl a heavy
branch against the girl’s shoulder, throwing
her down the embankment into a deep ditch.
She was taken out and carried to the office
where she telegraphed the news of the ac-
cident and remained on duty all night. A
large sum of money was collected for her
by the passengers, which she refused. Six
months after, the brave girl died from the
injuries received in saving the train. Men
and women, whose lives were saved, a great
corporation, whose property was saved, took
little thought of the poor girl who had ha-
zarded so much. Struggling for home and
parents, she remained at her post of duty
almost to the time that death came to her.
––EX.


﻿Illinois has lately elected eleven ladies to
be School Superintendents.
	REMAINS OF A MASTODON.—Mr. Litt, re-
siding some six miles north of this place,
not long since, whilst sinking a well, and
after having passed through the hard pan
and several stratas of sand, at forty-five feet
reached a bed of gravel, and with it an
abundance of good water. Embedded, how-
ever, in the top of the gravel, he passed
through the skeleton of a mastodon. Sev-
eral of the bones, in a good state of preser-
vation, were brought to the surface. In
one of the bones was discovered a flint ar-
row-head, such as is in common use by the
present Indians of this continent. The ar-
row-head was so completely embedded in
the bone that there can be little doubt  that
it was shot into the monster animal near the
time of its death. This fact carries with it
the reflection that these monster animals,
the remains of which are now visible, do
not antedate the present Indian race inhab-
iting our continent.—[Modesto News.


