		R. S. REPORTS

A TEACHERS' monthly meeting was held
Nov. 6th, 1873, at the Third Ward School
House, Salt Lake City. Very few attend 
the meetings, compared with the number
that belongs to the Society; but those who
do attend are punctual and diligent and ex-
press a willingness to do all they can for the
advancement of the Kingdom of God.
	The word Female we have dropped from 
our Society.
	Several of the Sisters take the EXPONENT
and are pleased with its contents; we wish
it great success.
		ZURVIAH G. EARDLEY, Secretary.

	The Relief Society of the Fifth and
Sixth Wards, Salt Lake City, is reported by
Secretary Mrs. Catherine Anderson.
[Column 2]
	An annual meeting was held in the 
Sixth Ward school house, Wednesday, No-
vember 12th, 1873.
	It has been resolved to omit the word
"Female" from the name of the Society.
	The Society is in a prosperous condition; 
meetings well attended; the sisters, energetic
in attending their duties, besides reliev-
ing the needy, have assisted in erecting a
new school house. Mrs. Rhoda A. Fullmer
is President.

	From Santaquin, Nov. 19th, 1873, Sec-
retary Julia D. Wilson writes:
	Our Relief Society still flourishes, and is
doing a good work in helping the poor and
comforting the sick. The sisters are gener-
ally united.
	We held our fifth annual meeting Nov.
6th. Our President is a worthy woman,
alive to the interests of the Kingdom of 
God.
	A Young Ladies' Retrenchment Associa-
tion, now numbering thirty-five members,
has been organized here.

	Mrs. B. A. Goodel, President of the
Relief Society at Washington, sends us a
report of that association. It was organ-
ized the fourteenth of October, 1868. Its
members have labored under many disad-
vantages with cheerfulness and zeal; striv-
ing to do their part in honorably sustaining 
the noble cause they represent in connection
with the Relief Societies elsewhere. They
have a fine hall nearly completed in which,
ere long, their meetings will be held. Their
fifth annual meeting held the fourteenth of
last October, was favored with the presence 
and good teachings of the Presidency in
that portion of country.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Matthews and Mrs. M. G.
Whitehead are counselors to President Mrs. 
Goodel.

	The Relief Society of Ogden City, held 
a meeting Nov. 27th, in the New City Hall.
There was a large attendance, many spoke,
the spirit of God was made manifest not
only by their speaking but through what
had been accomplished the past week in
taking care of the poor.
	God bless all who are willing to assist the 
needy. 		   A. M. FRODSHAM, Secretary.
	Secretary Mrs. Agnes S. Armstrong writes
from Ephraim, Sanpete Co., that the Relief 
Society of that place is in good condition,
"all the good sisters" belonging to it and
each one striving to do her very best. Their
young ladies were organized into an associ-
ation last March, with a President, six Coun-
selors and a secretary; namely:
	Miss CAROLINE JENSEN, President,
	  "	C. M. WILLARDSEN, <} Counselors.>
	  "	K. E. MADSEN, <} Counselors.>
	  "	A. MARTENSEN, <} Counselors.> 
	  "	JULIA THORPE, <} Counselors.>
	Mrs. ANNA PETERSEN, <} Counselors.>
	Miss JULIA DORIMUS, <} Counselors.>
	  "	HELEN E. ARMSTRONG, Secretary.
	Our correspondent speaks of a very agree-
able visit made to the settlement by Elders
Joseph, Lorenzo D. and William G. Young,
during which the people felt greatly blest
by the good instructions which the mission-
aries gave. At time of writing, the weather
was delightful and the general health of the
citizens good, though some cases of measles
were in town.


Mrs. McIntosh, of Joliet, Illinois, has been
elected County school Superintendent by a
handsome majority over three male com-
petitors.


[For the Exponent.
		HOME WORK.
How often we hear the quotation "Charity
begins at home;" perhaps when we are en-
gaged in some kind act of benevolence, and
all the better feelings of our natures are
roused to do good to a fellow-creature,
some one will throw a damper upon our
glowing enthusiasm, by repeating this world-
wide saying.
	Sisters, do not let this hinder us from do-
ing good to others, nor cause our souls to
contract into a nut-shell, fearful lest we
should be of some use, or benefit in the
world, aside from our own individual home-
circle; but let us be sure and satisfy ourselves
thoroughly that our work has begun at home,
by our own fireside.
	There is something for parents to do be-
sides providing food and raiment for their
children, and sending them to day and
Sunday school; there is also a home educa-
tion which commences one can scarcely de-
fine when, in the absence of which there is
a lack in the character and life of a child that
extends over to mature years. Let us then
make our homes happy ones, bright and
cheerful by kind words and sunny smiles,
play with the children, romp with them
occasionally, tell them pleasing and simple
stories, sing with them, pray for them,
impress upon them the love of truth, teach
them the spirit of forgiveness, and charity
one for another, make everything pleasant
and inviting around them, that the recol-
lection of their childhood's home may linger
in their memories forever. Home may be
ever so poor or humble, but if father and
mother dwell in love and strive together
for true happiness, the children will grow
up in an atmosphere of gladness, and sun-
shine, and the remembrance of the beloved
ones, with whom they associated there, will
be held sacred in their heart of hearts.
	One may get the finest education possible
to be obtained in our modern schools, but if
he or she has never had a home of peace
and comfort there will be a feeling of regret
that will never wear away. "I had a hap-
py home," you will hear remarked by some
good tempered, genial man or woman, and
we almost knew it before from, the happy
disposition.
	Let us teach our little ones the gospel of
Jesus as we understand it—tell them how
the Savior loved little children—many of
us have been too careless in regard to our
children in times past—let us be wide-awake
now. The Lord has abundantly blest us
with peace and plenty, we have time, if we
will use it wisely, for the instruction and
benefit of our children and each other, and
to make our homes truly homes of piety,
intelligence, culture and refinement.
	But O! the magnitude of the work devolv-
ing upon us, if we keep in any wise the
golden rule, "To do unto others as we would
that they should do unto us." Our sisters
are gathered from all countries nearly, and
many of them have never known what a
real genuine home is. They have been
compelled to work early and late in order to
obtain even the common necessaries of
life; consequently they know nothing about
instructing their children at home. Here
in Zion, if they are industrious, they will
get homes of their own, they will have time
for the cultivation of their minds, for the
development of their intellects, and is it
not our duty to assist them in this work of
improvement by all the means in our power
and to give them, as much as possible, the
benefit of our experience?
	The question naturally arises, how can we
do it? We cannot go from house to house


prying into other people's affairs and search-
ing out their home life; Oh no, certainly not;
but we can, each of us, use all our influence
in doing good, giving good and sound advice
to those around us wherever and whenever
there is an opening, take especial pains to
encourage a spirit of home-culture, and to
procure a wide circulation for the EXPONENT
which will be a great blessing and advantage
to the home-circle; never neglecting an op-
portunity to do a home-work. Zion is our
home, as well as our own fireside; we are
brothers and sisters all; then let us be co-
workers in our labor of love at home, and
though we are not called upon to preach the
Gospel to the nations, let us diligently and
faithfully fill our home-sphere, using all the
talents God has given us for the dissemina-
tion of truth and light.
	Let us be earnest workers, zealous for "to-
day;" never shrinking from duty; patterns
of propriety and consistency in all our
efforts to prepare ourselves and our children,
for lives of honor and practical usefulness;
never "weary in well-doing," whether our
efforts are appreciated or not; we may be
misunderstood but if our motives are pure
and our consciences' clear, we shall "in no
wise lose our reward."
				Blanche Beachwood.
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 21, 1873.


