MISCELLANEOUS.

	A little girl was asked what was the meaning
of the word happy. She gave a pretty answer,
saying, "It is to feel as if you wanted to give
all your things to your little sister."
	Freedom’s indeed not doing as we like, not
everybody followiug his or her own way (even
if that were possible), but "self-control." Self-
control, plus a control or command of our sub-
ject, gives "freedom," but a person who has no
control over any subject, or right use of any
faculties, cannot have freedom.—Miss Nighin-
gale.
	Girls who are properly educated, who are
early taught the lessons of self-reliance, who
have placed before them a high standard of ex-
cellence to attain, will never stoop to be mere
dolls for the display of the latest fashions, the
butterflies of life, gaudy but worthless, but will
become sober, earnest women, who are fitted
to work out the high mission intrusted to them.
	God bless the cheerful people!—man, woman,
or child, old or young, illiterate or educated,
handsome or homely. Over and above every
other social trait, stands cheerfulness. What
the sun is to nature, what God is to the stricken
heart that knows how to lean upon Him, are
cheerful persons in the house and by the way-
side. They go unobtrusively' unconsciously,
about their silent mission, brightening up society
around them. We love to sit near them; the
expression of their eye, the tone of their voice
is an inspiration.
	Training Girls.—Training girls for house-
hold duties ought to be considered as necessary
as instruction in reading, writing and arith-
metic, and quite as universal. We are in our
houses more than half of our existence, and it
is the household surroundings which affect most
largely the happiness or misery of domestic
life. If the wife knows how to “keep house,”
if she understands how to "set a table," if she
has learned how things ought to be cooked, how
beds should be made, how carpets should be
swept, how the furniture should be dusted, how
the clothing should be repaired, and turned,
and altered, and renovated; if she knows how
purchases can be made to the best advantage,
and understands the laying in of provisions,
how to make them go farthest and last longest;
if she appreciates the importance of system,
order, tidiness, and the quiet management of
children and servants, then she knows how to
make a little heaven of home; how to win her
children from the street; how to keep her hus-
band from the club-house, the gaming-table
and the wine-cup. Such a family will be train-
ed to social respectability, to business success,
and to eficiency and usefulness in whatever
position may be allotted to them.
	It may be safe to say, that not one girl in ten
in our large towns and cities enters married
life, who has learned to bake a loaf of bread, to
purchase a roast, to dust a painting, to sweep a
carpet, or to cut, and fit, and make her own
dress. How much the perfect knowledge of
these things bears upon the thrift, the comfort,
and the health of families, may be conjectured,
but not calculated by figures. It would be an
immeasurable advantage to make a beginning
by attaching a kitchen to every girls' school in
the nation, and have lessons given daily in the
preparation of all the ordinary articles of food
and drink for the table, and how to purchase
them in the market to the best advantage, with
the result of a large saving of money, an in-
crease of comfort, and higher health in every
family in the land.—Hall's Journal.


