		EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE REEDSBURY "Free Press" is said to
employ only women and girls to do its work,
and to comment thus: We have a calico
"foreman", two dimity. "compositors" and
the sweetest little "devil" in pink muslin,
that can be found any where.
	The HON. George Q. Cannon has been
admitted a member of the House of Repre-
sentatives at Washington. Possessing the
confidence, and being assured that he has
the faith and prayers of the people he rep-
resents, his labors there will, undoubtedly,
be efficient in their behalf.
	A FOND mother is said to have carried home
a bundle of lace ruffles, a bolt of silk, some
ribbons and skeins of worsted, the other
day, from a store in one of our western
cities, where she left her baby lying on the
counter. We don't credit the story. Babies
are not so stupid as to admit of such a 
blunder if a mother might be.
	MR. JOSEPH ARCH suggests in a letter to
the Commissioners of Immigration, that an
emmigrant house be established, combining
cleanliness and comfort with protection, in
which newly arrived immigrants, who may
be obliged to wait in New York for employ-
ment or transportation west, may be pro-
vided with a home without resorting to the
swindling boarding houses of the city. It
is a praiseworthy suggestion.
	"THE BOLTON GUARDIAN" (England,)
has been publishing interesting letters from
Mr. Birch, and one signing himself "Equal-
ity," the former defending, the latter con-
temning polygamy. In one of his commu-
nications, "Equality" says, "As an English-
man, my indignation naturally arose to see
such an ungodly thing as polygamy defend-
ed." As an Englishman, then, how would
"Equality" deal with the wretched practice
so common in England, by which hundreds
of women become mothers who are never
acknowledged by any man as wives?
"Equality's" views upon the subject of mar-
riage, appear very one sided, as do the opin-
ions of most of the so-called Christian world,
which would deny more than half its wo-
men the privilege of marrying at all.
	A VERY extraordinary accident by which
the Persian gulf cable was broken, has been
recorded in late papers. The cable between
Khurrachee and Gwadur, about 300 miles
distance, suddenly failed to work one eve-
ning. It was found necessary in order to
make repairs, to wind in the cable, in per-
forming which, more than usual resistance
was experienced. After a considerable
amount of time and perseverance, an im-
mense whale was brought to the surface,
and found to be firmly secured, immediately
above the tail, by two and a half tons of the
cable. The body had been partly eaten by
sharks and other fish, and was rapidly de-
composing. The tail, which measured 12
feet across, was perfect, and covered with
branches at the extremities; and it was sup-
posed that with a sudden fillip of this tail,
the fish had twisted the cable about him, and
been unable to extricate himself.
[Column 2]
	AN EXCHANGE has the following concern-
ing Woman's Rights in Russia. Form-
erly their sole public employment was the
sweeping of the streets under the eye, or
rather under the whip of the Police, and
this was a privilege confined to drunkards.
But now all is changed; and at a time when
Britain is trying to exclude them from its
medical colleges, an edict has been issued
by the Czar to afford them facilities for ac-
quiring a thorough knowledge of midwife-
ry, and the other branches of Surgery and
Medicine. They are also to be admitted as
workers in telegraph offices. They are en-
joined to "avoid negligence and sauciness,
and above all, to propagate no scandal."
They are not, however, to be intrusted with
the privilege of voting, or of meeting in
public for the purpose of discussing philo-
sophic questions." Apparently, the cause
of woman is progressing favorably in nearly
all parts of the world--the United States
should be no longer slow to perceive wo-
man's needs and grant her justice in all re-
spects. 
	OF THE "Virginius" affair, which has
caused so much talk and excitement of late,
we find no account of the particulars more ful-
ly given in few words, than which appears in
President Grant's Message. He says, "The
steamer "Virginius" was, on the 26th day
of Sept., 1870, duly registered at the port of
New York as a part of the commercial ma-
rine of the U. S. On the 4th of October, 1870,
having the certificate of her register in the
usual legal form, she sailed from the port of
New York, and has not since been within the
territorial jurisdiction of the U. S. On the
31st of October last, while sailing under the
flag of the U. S., on the high seas, she was
forcibly seized by the Spanish gunboat "Tor-
nado," and was carried into the port of San-
tiago de Cuba, where many of her passen-
gers and crew were inhumanely and, at least
as related to those who were citizens of the
U. S., without due process of law put to
death. It is a well established principle,
asserted by the U. S. from the beginning of
our national independence, and recognized
by Great Britain and other maritime pow-
ers, and stated by the Senate in a resolution
passed unanimously on the 16th of June,
1858, that American vessels on the high seas
in the time of peace, bearing the Ameri-
can flag remain under the jurisdiction of the
country to which they belong, and therefore
any visitation, molestation or interference
with such vessels by force on the part of a
foreign power, is in derogation of the sov-
ereignty of the U.S. In accordance with
this principle, the restoration of the "Vir-
ginius" and the surrender of the survivors
of her passengers and crew, due reparation
to the flag, and the punishment of the au-
thorities who had been guilty of the illegal
acts of violence, were demanded. The
Spanish government has recognized the
justice of the demand, and has arranged for
the immediate delivery of the vessel and
for the surrender of the survivors of the
passengers and crew, and for a salute to the
flag, and for proceedings looking to the pun-
ishment of those who may be proved to have
been guilty of illegal acts of violence to-
wards citizens of the United States; and
[Column 3]
also towards indemnifying those who may
be shown to be entitled to indemnity."


