		HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	FROSTED FEET may be cured as follows:
White oak bark, taken fresh and boiled in
water to a strong liquor. Bathe the feet in
the liquor. It is pronounced the best of all
remedies. 
	FURNITURE OIL.—Mix half a pint of olive
oil with one pound of soft soap. Boil them
well and apply the mixture to your oiled
furniture with a piece of dry cotton wool.
Polish with a soft dry flannel.
	CHILDREN, and all persons attending
school, should take all the sleep they can get
and should never be waked up in the morning
after having gone to bed at a regular hour.
Every humane parent will make it a reli-
gious duty to arrange that every child shall
go to bed in an affectionate, loving and glad
spirit.
	QUAKER PLUM PUDDING.—Take slices of
light bread, spread them with butter and
lay them in a pudding-dish, with alternate
layers of raisins, until within an inch of the
top. Five eggs are then beaten with a
quart of milk, and poured over the pudding;
salt and spice to taste. I bake it twenty to
twenty-five minutes, and eat with liquid
sauce. The raisins should be boiled in a
little water before using, and the water and
raisins put on the pudding.
	CHILDREN.—Children can do a great deal
more than they are usually supposed to be
capable of. It doesn't weary a child to set
the table any more than it does to roll a
hoop, and at six years of age a boy or girl
can be made responsible for this task. Boys
can learn housework just as well as girls.
We know a boy of twelve who makes ex-
elent bread, compounds cake of faultless fla-
vor, and frosts it, washes dishes quickly and
clean, sweeps, makes beds, milks the cow,
feeds the chickens, takes care of the baby,
helps regularly about the washing and iron-
ing and holds his own in all respects with
any boy of his age. He is no prodigy, he is
only the result of judicial training. We
know a girl of 14, modest, pleasing, entirely
feminine, who takes care of the horse and
cow, washes the buggy when necessary, drives
the double team to market when the hired
man can't be spared, weeds in the garden,
rakes in the meadow like Maud Muller, and
is altogether feminine, though from neces-
sity she does the work of a boy.
	SALT-RISING BREAD.—To one pint of

[Column 2]
boiling water add 1/4 teaspoonful salt, 1/4 tea-
spoonful soda, one tablespoonful sugar, (brown
is best); when cool enough to bear the fin-
ger in it, thicken with flour to the consis-
tency of jelly cake; put into a vessel of
warm water, and keep it just as warm as
the batter will bear without cooking it. It
will rise about the middle of the day, if
started about six in the morning; this, with
water added, will make two small loaves.
	BAKED FRESH FISH.—Bake like meat in
a pan, with salt and a little water, and when
partly cooked, pour over it half or a whole
cup of cream, according to the quantity of
fish. It will bake in about an hour, and a
thickened gravy should be made in the pan,
after the fish is taken up. Cut halibut in
thick slices, but other kinds like haddock,
shad, etc., are best baked whole, and may
be stuffed if desired. This is a nice way of
cooking, if one cannot eat fried fish, as it
preserves the flavor much better than boil-
ing. 
	MEDICAL VALUE OF ASPARAGUS.—A
Medical correspondent of an English journal
says thatthe advantages of asparagus are not
sufficiently appreciated by those who suffer
with rheumatism and gout. Slight cases of
rheumatism are cured in a few days by feed-
ing on this delicious esculent; and more
chronic cases are much relieved, especially
if the patient avoids all acids, whether in
food or beverage. The Jerusalem artichoke
has also a similar effect in relieving rheu-
matism. The heads may be eaten in he
usual way, but tea made from the leaves of
the stalk, and drank three or four times a
day, is a certain remedy, though nor equal-
ly agreeable.


