			A CARD.

	To the People of Utah Territory

	The Territorial Teachers' Association, at
its last session, appointed a committe for the
purpose of drafting a petition to our Legis-
lature for the passage of a school law which
might secure to the citizens of the Territory
a better organization and supervision of our
common schools, the inefficiency of the
present system having become obvious to 
everybody. The committee appointed for the
above-named purpose is now about to circu-
late this petition among the people, and
has prefixed an appeal to all citizens
throughout the Territory to give weight and
countenance to this petition by their signa-
tures. Inasmuch as many inquiries have
been made concerning the nature of our
propositions, this public explanation has
been deemed necessary.
	The Territorial Teachers' Association fore-
seeing this appointed, during its last spring
session, a committee for the purpose of draft-

[Column 2]
ing a bill for a school law, to be presented to 
our Legislature. This committee has acom-
plished its task by drafting a bill providing
for all the details of a perfect school organi-
zation and supervision throughout the Ter-
ritory, with due consideration of the cir-
cumstances of our people. It is impossible,
in the limited space of this card, to give
more than a few of the leading ideas of this
bill, for the information of the citizens.
	The whole Territory is to be organized
into three school districts, corresponding
with the already existing judicial districts.
For each of these districts the legislature
is to elect two members, which six members,
with three others at large, similarly elected,
are to constitute a Board of Education.
This Board is to have control of all educa-
tional matters, not otherwise provided for.
It is to elect a Territorial superintendent,
who shall be its executive officer, and who
shall devote his entire time to his duties.
His salary is to be fixed by the Board. The
members of the Board are to receive no
salary.
	Each county constitutes a county school
district, controlled by a board of five trus-
tees, elected by the people; it elects a county
superintendent, nominated by the Territo-
rial Superintendent, who also has to devote 
his whole time to his duties. It has to sub-
divide the county district into subschool
districts, and nominate, for each subdistrict, 
a local director as agent for the board.
	There are also independent school dis-
tricts, consisting of all towns and cities of
5.000, or more, inhabitants; they are par-
allel to the county school districts.
	The Territorial Board of Education elects
a board of examination for the Territory,
and the county boards for their respective
counties.
	Provisions are made for the establishment
of a Normal School; for building of school
houses; for obtaining school furniture; for
rates of tuition; for teacher's salaries; for
the education of poor children; for methods
of instruction; for teachers' institutes; etc.
	It provides for the Territorial school funds
by claiming one-half of the liquor tax, all 
fines for drunkenness and disorder, the pro-
fits from sales of estrays, the revenue from
corporations for valuable franchises allowed
them, all property that shall escheat to the
Territory, and one mill of all taxable pro-
perty throughout the Territory. This to go
for the salaries of the officers, and current
incidental expenses; and the remainder to
be appointed to the subdistricts.
	The county funds shall consist of one-
fourth of one per cent. of the taxable pro-
perty, out of which to pay the county school
superintendent, the remainder to be appor-
tioned to the subdistricts of the respective
county school districts, for the purpose of
repairing schoolhouses, and for fuel and
other contingent expenses.
	Each subdistrict can assess itself, by a two-
third vote, not to exceed 3 per cent., for the
purpose of erecting school houses.
	These are some of the leading ideas of the
proposed bill, and our fellow-citizens can
easily perceive from them the spirit and
purport of the whole.
	The Territorial Teachers' Association thus
places its labors before the people, feeling
confident of having done its duty, and
leaves the result to the guidance of an over-
ing Providence.
	In behalf of the Territorial Teachers' Asso-
ciation.				KARL G. MAESER:


Miss Virginia Vaughan, the authoress,
has made her debut as an actress in New
York.


