[Planning the Work Meetings by Leone G. Layton]

Planning the Work Meetings Leone G. Layton Member, General Board of Relief Society and Chairman, Work Meeting Committee ORK meeting leaders should begin planning their next season's (1949-50) work meeting program now.
Each leader is aware of the needs and interests of the women with whom she is working and should, at this time, be able to make general plans for an appropriate program which will accomplish the purposes of the Rehef Society work meeting in her locality.
Activity on this day should be planned with the following purposes in view: 1. To enable the women to give service in the Church Welfare Plan by assisting in filling the Welfare clothing budget assignment. 2. To give service to the ward Relief Society organization by participating in activities beneficial to the local society. 3- To foster and develop creative and homemaking skills. 4. To promote a feeling of friendly sociability within the group by working together in pleasant association.
Each of these purposes should be considered fully in programming the day's activities in order that the greatest possible good may be gained from the meeting. Our first obligation on this day is to fill the Welfare clothing budget assignment. In doing this, we must be governed by the directions given us by the Welfare committee when the assignment is made. Let us plan to allow all the women an opportunity to participate in this service, that all may obtain the satisfaction and the development which come from so doing. Next, we should anticipate the local activities of our society for the year and include the preparation for these in our season's planning. If we contemplate a bazaar, let us plan ways to use this activity to forward the purposes of the work meeting.
Through a bazaar we can interest our members and bring them into activity; we can recognize the skills of some of our older women and ask them to teach these skills to others; we can plan to use everyone along the lines of her aptitudes, interests, and skills.
Special activities may be featured on various work meeting days, which will stimulate interest in homemaking and home beautification. The sewing course, which will be outlined in the July issue of the Magazine, may well be brought into the work meeting.
Many of our mothers have need of this special instruction, and it may be given in such a manner as to interest the entire Relief Society group when it does not interfere with other planned activities.
Fine quilting has become traditional in Relief Society. Let us plan to carry on this tradition by helping all to have an opportunity to learn and practice this skill. (Continued on page 352)  any can test; that no Place was €ver so - How eminently Proper that the h iment, 9 affection and of | the attributes d thr © Woman, and Is like a 5 | > and blend With the aZure of the N, and Tadiatin to t € extreme Point, Causing 4]] between One Point to the other. TH ET'S SEASON It has been aid, and truly, that ¢ rin S€ason. There Is q Peculiar f£ Cshness j the e It Were, to Very centre Mands expresg; n Conference was held March 22d, at the, _ v'. Pomeroy Presiding, President C. I.
Counselors ang Other brethren were Present; opened by singing and Prayer, unselor Sarah Russel] Spoke briefly.
Felt that life was too short to; | feelings towards Other, | € can aSSist Others In ©. —Susan Wilcox, any ways with Words of Secreta  acon Cay- Dutch grandmother, fifty-two years old, Mrs. Boissevain, has started in the Netherlands a movement known as the "National Skirt," which numbers 4000 women. It originated last September when women were depressed because they had "nothing to wear" to celebrate the Golden Jubilee of Queen Wilhelmina's reign.
They make patchwork skirts from the "odds and ends" in their workbaskets.
These symbolize "salvaging bits of the past and uniting them in a new future" of national progress and world-wide understanding. T the end of the last war, Dr. James R. McCain, for thirty years president of Agnes Scott College for Women, in Georgia, said that when future generations read our contemporary history, the headlines will be, not the two wars, but the women's revolution of the past fifty years. He feels that the results of women's business, professional, and political activities have been more harmful than good for society as a whole. He feels that women working when there are more applicants than jobs will bring down all wages. He blames the increase in juvenile delinquency and the decrease in birthrate on mothers' absence from home. It is the Ramona W. Cannon homemakers who rear families, beautify cities with gardens, and keep churches alive. But he predicted that the tide will turnthat more women will prepare themselves to be expert home-makers.
AN interesting phase of the above problem is that some statistics on happy marriages indicate that the girl who has had business training and experience before or after marriage is a safer matrimonial risk in some respects than the young woman who has remained strictly at home. npHE former Mildred McAfee, who was lieutenant-commander of women's reserves, U.S.N.R., during the last war, and who has been Mrs. Douglas Horton for about three years, recently resigned from her position as president of Wellesley College for women. She felt that her professional obligations were interfering with her being the kind of wife and homemaker she desired to be.
Page 309

EDITORIAL
VOL. 36
MAY 1949
NO. 5
I Lot in the Kyibundance of the cJhings W/hich uie LPossesseth up her furniture, then she wouldn't be half-sick with worry trying to pay for the new." The voice of the speaker sounded regretful as she related the imprudent purchases of a friend.
How often when spring arrives, transforming the out of doors into a radiant and sparkling new world and cloaking the unsightly with exquisite shades of color, when the sky blooms in heavenly blue dotted with white, diaphanous flowers, does the housewife walk into her own home and look with dissatisfied eyes at her furniture and floor coverings, drab and shabby from the winter's grime.
Excited by the beauty without, she visualizes new furniture in gay stripes and flowered prints, and a new rug to help make her living room come alive. Then, when her club meets again, she dreams, her home will look more like Jeanne's beautiful one.
The picture is etched more sharply in her mind on succeeding days and, at length, results in a trip to town and an orgy of buying.
For the first few days the house-
Page 310 wife thoroughly enjoys the new picture. Of course, she was unable to match that blue exactly, and the green clashes a little. The rug is rather startling at first glance, but still, the whole picture is satisfying to her.
On the first of the month the postman delivers the bill. Only after careful checking does she reluctantly concede that the adding machine totaled correctly. The monthly installment figure is, therefore, quite a bit higher than she had expected. But the housewife pushes the worry down in her mind and gives a fairly satisfied glance around her rooms in partial justification.
A few weeks later Johnny becomes ill and requires many visits from the doctor. Just an unforeseen occurrence, the housewife thinks as she opens the doctor's bill, one that no one could anticipate and, anyway,
Johnny is well again.
By now the first bloom has gone from the new purchases. In spite of oft-repeated warnings, Lucy carried her glass of milk in the living room and spilled it on the rug in front of the fireplace. The cat also wrought havoc on the new sofa by sharpening her claws on the upholstery of the arms. The installment payments, however, do not become less.

EDITORIAL
311
Finally, the housewife is forced to face her worry and anxiety and acknowledge that she was unwise to have bought more than she could pay for. Instead of the gay and friendly atmosphere she had hoped to create, she looks at her home almost with dislike.
But long after she reached this conclusion, she still continues to scrape together her installment money. And it was then that the harried housewife voiced to her friend the remark, "I could have fixed up the old things and would not have been half-sick with worry trying to pay for my new things."
The Savior remarked at one time,
''for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth." The success of a homemaker does not depend on the newness nor costliness of possessions, neither does joy arise from imprudence and extravagance.
M. C. S. uieleased to Spring
C. Cameron Johns
The earth is cushioned velvet to the tread
And May has dressed her world in flowered lace;
The gilding touch of sunshine overhead
Makes miracles of all the commonplace.
Even down the canyoned city street,
Where stone and steel resist each growing thing,
The little winds are blowing soft and sweet
Releasing wintered spirits into spring. fflidas and the (yive Senses
Eva WiUes Wangsgaard
The spring returns the gold we lost
In cups of daffodils,
And golden lightbirds dip and rise
Along the window sills.
With gold to see and gold to touch
Where water lihes float,
And tinkling notes like nuggets tossed
From every warbler's throat,
A golden scent from hyacinths,
And honey gold to taste,
Five paths of gold lead to the heart.
Come. Who would let it waste?
JLuacs Kytfter Lfiain
Jeanette P. Parry
Who has not loved the wild, sweet smell
Of lilacs blooming after rain,
Or walked a petal-covered path
On fallen blossoms down the la ne? So often I have picked bouquets, Dew-dripping, lavender, and white, And placed them in a pale blue bowl To lend their fragrance to the night. I have been far from haunts like these, Have stood in gardens fit for prayer, But still I hear the hum of bees And haunting perfume fills the air. Joanna Margery S. Stewart CHAPTER 5
Synopsis: Joanna, who had married David Niels against the wishes of her family, is left a widow with four children to support and care for. Courageously, she takes inventory of her meager resources and plans for the future. A neighbor gives her a sack of navy beans and Joanna decides to make Boston-baked beans for sale.
Another neighbor, Abigail Smith, offers to help with ideas and transportation.
From a slow and unpromising beginning they build a profitable business.
Joanna rears her children with love and devotion and for Penny's fourteenth birthday she plans a special party. N leaden feet, Joanna went to () the door and opened it. She took a deep breath. "Darling," she said to Penny. She lifted her head. "My dears, I'm so glad you could come." "Hello, Mrs. Niels,' Connie said primly. Her mouth pursed as she sidled past Joanna into the room.
Joanna saw the quick eyes inventory the kitchen range, the absurd decorations. "I'll have to leave early, Mother doesn't want me in this neighborhood after dark." "But we've lots of time until then."
Joanna bustled about, taking their coats and scarves, saying whatever gay and welcoming thing popped into her head. The prayer beat in her throat, please... Please, for Penny's sake, let the party be good, not anything to mar her day, please. "Did you ever play "Witches'?" she asked them, pushing laughter through her stiff throat. "It's fun." She described it.
Connie sat on the davenette and Page 312 smoothed her red velvet skirt. "I'd rather not. It sounds too childish."
Joanna swallowed hard. "Very well. Let's play this one... Called 'Ghosts,' and if Connie doesn't like it, she can read'a book." She forced them into it, hiding the firmness under the banner of her laughter. She gave the gay prizes she had bought, with a flourish. Slowly, slowly, the ice melted and the girls came on her side.
Laughter came spontaneously from young lips.
After awhile Joanna could leave the room, go into the kitchen to put last-minute touches on the cakes and the ice cream. The shrieks and the clamor of excited voices were music to her ears.
They ate their refreshments in an ecstatic silence.
Joanna watched Penny's face.
There was no cloud upon it, nothing to sully the clear joy of having her friends about her, of showing them off to her mother. But when the party was over and the young guests ready to depart, the clouds rose stormily again.
Penny was helping Connie into the lovely coat. "Do come again, Connie.
Come often." Connie's mouth pinched. "I'll try. But I'm afraid Mother will have a fit when she finds out where I've been."
Joanna stuffed her hands into her apron pockets so they would not strike out at the pursed, pink mouth, the too-wise eyes that bade contemptuous farewell to the little room.
Under her eyes, the decora- JOANNA tions, prepared at such a cost of time, grew pathetic, the slip cover faded and sagged.
Joanna fought fiercely to bring back the gaiety. Don't you understand, she wanted to cry out, how precious a thing Penny's friendship is? The friendship of anyone who really loves you.
What does it matter if they live in a tent, if they love you, they have value? Ruth, a black-haired echo of Connie, nodded her head. "But we really had fun," she said, in frank wonder.
Joanna saw the darts had gone into Penny's heart. Her eyes darkened with pain.
Joanna had the wild desire to step in front of her daughter, as if by so doing, she could take the pain into herself. She heard her own voice speaking, quickly, lightly, "I'm so glad you could all come. You see, we're moving into another neighborhood, and we might not be able to be together again." "Mother!"
Penny lifted enraptured eyes. "You didn't tell me! When?"
Joanna swallowed. "Very soon. It's to be a house on a hill, out of the smoke."
Connie smoothed the sleeve of her coat. "That will be different.
Mother will let me go up there."
Joanna watched with the helpless amazement of the adult, as her daughter received this information with shrieks of joy. "Won't that be simply super!
Just out of this world?" HEN the evening meal was over, Joanna sat enthroned among her children, while they gazed on her with adoration and awe. "You really mean it, Mother? 313 A big house!
Room for everybody to have a room? Oh, Mother, it will be so wonderful."
Joanna gulped and wondered if there was a place she could get with a down payment not to exceed three hundred dollars. ' "Tll have a room of my own," David said, "a place where I can study without the rest of you getting in my hair." "Your precious old books!"
Sally was hostile. "What I want is a place to hang my pictures without everybody painting beards on them." She hugged Penny. "You can have your room, too, and write your poems in it." "Poems?"
Joanna turned to Penny. 'The girl's face was scarlet. "Sally! Why did you have to tell?" She rose and ran toward the bedroom. ""They're awful! Awful!" "Poetry."
Joanna caught her breath. But of course, she should have known, Penny would never be one to hoard beauty, it would pour out of her like light, into other people's lives. "Poetry..:. I'm so glad."
Abigail came over after supper to help with the night's work. She listened eagerly to every detail of the party, pausing in her kneading to look at Joanna's face. She made Joanna think of a silver-haired girl, in her ruffled blue apron. 'There was something young and wistful in her listening. But when she heard about Connie, her outrage knew no bounds. "You should have told her to go home! 'That's what you should have done. The idea! 'The very idea! What's the world coming to?" 314
Joanna sliced apples into a pie shell. "I don't know. When I was little, a party was an event. We talked about it for months, before and after. I can't remember ever noticing a house, or taking inventory of the cost of things." "It's their mothers!"
Abigail said shortly, "putting their own snobbish ideas into their daughters' heads." "I I told them we were moving into a new house."
Joanna looked up at Abigail. "I had tox, "Humph," snorted Abigail, "so they defeated you, the brave Joanna, who hasn't been downed by hurricane or famine, going down like nine pins before a bunch of little girls. I thought you were going to buy some new equipment?" "T was,' Joanna said unhappily. "I was going to do so many things. I was going to buy a small bakery and start out with just breads and pastries... A real shop."
Abigail blew a curl from her forehead. "Well, you can still do it. The children can just wait for their house."
Joanna set her chin. "No. The children need a home. A real one.
Penny will need one more and more. I can't bear to have her left out, or have less than the others. She has a right to things. Poetry.
Just think of it, Abigail, she's writing poetry."
Abigail said softly, "Well, 'm not surprised. I've often told my Henry. 'Henry,' I've said, 'there is one person whose mind I wouldn't be afraid to look into. Penny Niels' mind would be like a flower garden, that sweet, from the looks of her and the things she does for her mother, and the gentle way she RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1949 talks!
Just like a flower garden,' I told him."
Joanna came around the table to hug Abigail's | plump — shoulders. "You see, we have to give her lovely things, a chance in life."
Abigail patted Joanna's hand. "We'll do it, my dear." OANNA stood at the kitchen table, the next afternoon, wrapping fresh loaves of bread in wax paper; the pale October sun splashed warmth across her hands and on the kitchen table. A woodpecker swung on the lower branches of the apricot tree, just outside the window.
Someone knocked at the front door.
Joanna impatiently finished the bread she had started and went to answer it, not pleased to have visitors interrupt her busy day. She frowned at the tall, red-haired man who grinned at her from his great, lean height. "Mrs. Niels?" "Yes, but I " return his smile. "You're busy, I know I'm Kent Taylor, and I understood that you are in the market for a house." Joanna's mouth dropped gently. "But, good heavens! I just made up my mind yesterday." "T know," he said, "I read minds by television. You want a house on a hill."
Joanna laughed, reluctantly. "I suppose you know how much, or little, rather, I can afford to pay down?" He shook his head. "I never inquire into my clients' private affairs, such as love, money, or pet peeves. May I come in?" He She did not JOANNA sniffed the air, "It smells like a small corner of heaven." Joanna, leading him into the kitchen, wished suddenly she was wearing her new, high-heeled shoes, instead of the brown, flat brogues, She watched his eyes light up when he saw the crusty brown loaves on She | said, hesitantly, "Would...
Would you like a slice of fresh bread and some strawberry Jam?" His grin was quick and pleased. "Would I? I don't believe I've ever tasted fresh, homemade bread in all my life - Mother was a Career woman....
Real estate. She and my sister are Tunning the business together. I'm home on vacation so they put me to work." He took a deep bite out of the slice of bread and jam. Hi "Brother! Now J see what people mean.
This isn't the first time I've tasted your products. We had some Boston-baked beans last night. My sister was telling me about you my niece, too. In fact it was our charming little niece who told us you were in the market for a house." "Your niece?" "Uh-huh, Connie, she was here to a birthday party." "Oh," said Joanna. He looked around "You need a shop." "IT need a house," Joanna said. She looked at him wonderingly, marveling at his quick tongue, the €normous enjoyment he seemed to derive from very simple things. She liked the tweed suit he wore, and the snap brim was like him, past its first youth, somewhat battered, but possessing to a high degree, dash and charm.
"I have a house," he said, "or rather Mother has ... on a hill.
When could I take you to see it?"
"Fve so much to do . . . ."
"This afternoon, at say, twothirty?"
Reluctantly, Joanna nodded.
He rose and picked up his hat.
He looked soberly down at Joanna.
"Connie is a difficult child. I think this is the first nice thing she ever did . . . for me."
Startled, Joanna looked into his blunt, homely face .... She saw laughter starting from deep down in his hazel eyes. His mouth twitched a little at the corners.
"Thank you for the bread and jam,
Mrs. Niels."
She closed the front door behind him and went back to the kitchen.
She began again to wrap the bread, and then suddenly went to the kitchen mirror and peered into it.
She had not changed from yesterday, and yet, there had been something when he looked at her ... a relief ... as though he had hoped she would be attractive and was not disappointed. Joanna turned sharply away. What an idiot!
What an utter idiot, to imagine such a thing.
But when she dressed, after lunch, she tucked one of Penny's bright scarves into the collar of her gray suit. The red and yellow scarf brought color into her cheeks and a sparkle to her eyes. Joanna brushed out her hair, let it wave softly around her face. But when she heard his car stop before the house, she tore out the scarf and pinned her hair back into the accustomed roll. She looked again in the mir-

316
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE— MAY 1949 ror. The gray suit and the neat white blouse looked Quaker prim, but the color had not departed from her face, and her eyes mocked her with their shining.
She went to open the door for him. She nodded briefly, "You're on time."
*'So are you, a rare and delightful trait." He helped her into the shining car as though she were an object of great price and rare fragility. "I ordered the day especially for you."
He waved an expansive hand to include the rich gold of the sunshine, the scarlet banners of maple trees, the blue haze on the mountains.
(To be continued)
Luncheon Cloths for the Making
Rachel K. La urgaard
IJJustrations hy Elizabeth Williamson
H AVE you ever stood looking through the table of discarded samples and bolt ends which drapery and upholstery shops sell for a fraction of their original cost, and racked your brain for some excuse to buy a lovely square of printed linen or hand-blocked cotton?
Tapestry pieces make good cushion covers, or, with a pair of handles— an attractive knitting bag. But what could one do with a yard or so of chintz?
Make luncheon and breakfast cloths, of course! Permanent-finished chintzes, picture-printed crash, cotton twills, and linens are all washable, and can be had from the sample table in the loveliest of colors and designs.
Hem or fringe a quaint piece of flowered chintz, set out your collection of antique glass and china, and see what a charming table you have laid. Use a gorgeous tropical print in tones to blend with your breakfast pottery. You will find that the plainest of everyday china looks like something special when set on a striking sample square from the drapery shop.

Braided Rugs — New-Fashioned
Diucilh S. Howard
"POR an easier and better way of making the old-fashioned braided rugs you will need a large feed-sack needle and some stout string or carpet warp. You should be able to buy a needle at any hardware store.
The rags are braided in the usual way. When ready to begin putting the strips together, fold the braided strip the length you wish the center of the rug to be, and with the needle, threaded with string, take up a loop of the braided strands, first on one side and then on the other. Always insert needJe from top side oi rug. Take up each loop, drawing the string snugly under each time.
When working around the ends of the rug, take up two loops on the outside strand, (one on the inside) as many times as necessary to make the rug lie flat.
When you have used up the string in your needle, tie the new piece of string to the end you have been using and thread the needle again. The knot can be pulled under the loops until hidden. The string will not show if pulled up snugly each time a loop is taken up.
If you use two strips of clpth of different lengths in each strand you braid, it will not be necessary to sew the ends together. Just fold the ends of one strip inside the other. Also the needle works better if it is not too sharp.
Spring [Planting
LeKoy Burke Meagher
I followed the furrows which dad plowed up
And helped with the seeding he had begun,
By planting a sackful of corn which looked
Like wrinkled-up pieces of autumn sun.
The cool, moistened earth felt so good on bare feet
And chunks of it stuck between all of my toes,
As I walked along, with the sun on my back,
And dropped little kernels of sun in the rows.