Business College Salt Lake City
Some Outstanding Incidents in Joseph Smith's Life
By Carter E. Grant, Principal Jordan Seminary.
Since the young Prophet Joseph was in many respects not unlike the rest of us during his latter teens, he responded naturally enough to the emotions of friendship and love for the fair sex. By the time he had reached his twenty-first birthday, December 23, 1826, he had found his "help-mate" and stood ready for marriage. We are told that Joseph was anxious, so also was Emma, but the parents of the girl, seemingly, were not.
Let us look at Joseph here for a moment. Exceptionally unique, if not singularly unusual, were his first twenty-one years. Joseph records that at the time of his marriage he had seen and conversed with the Father and the Son; had met Moroni on at least eight different occasions; at the Hill Cumorah four times he had viewed the golden records, the breast plate, and the Urim and Thummim; had beheld the "Prince of darkness surrounded by his innumerable train." He then adds, that in less than a year from that time, Moroni had promised to deliver the sacred treasure into his hands.
To get quickly at our theme, let's drop back a year and take a look at Joseph in October, 1825, a few months prior to his twentieth birthday. At this time, there came into the neighborhood of the Smiths, near the Hill Cumorah, Mr. Josiah Stoal from South Bainbridge, New York, advertising for workmen to go with him a hundred miles southeast near Harmony, Pennsylvania, and there aid in re-locating a long-lost silver mine. Stoal's interest in the mine had been aroused by some old documents, stating that in the hills near Harmony, certain Spaniards, in years gone by, had opened a silver mine of great wealth. This fabulous and legendary tale so worked upon the mind of Mr. Stoal that he soon set about securing men for his undertaking. While he journeyed in the vicinity of the Hill Cumorah, there fell upon his ears a strange story regarding the Smiths, and of Joseph in particular. Thus thinking that such a rarely gifted young "Seer" would prove an asset of inestimable value in his project, he soon had the nineteen-year-old Prophet hired, and together they set off toward Pennsylvania. Joseph records that owing to crop failures of this year and to various other financial losses of his parents, Mr. Stoal's offer was an opportunity not to be set aside.
It is hardly to be supposed that Joseph anticipated or promised in any manner whatever the use of his rare gifts to help satisfy Mr. Stoal's craze for riches. Joseph informs us that during these days of prospecting, he was sent to board at the Hale home; there lived Isaac Hale with his wife Elizabeth, five sons and three daughters?catch the Bible names among the sons:? Isaac, Jesse, David, Reuben, and Alva. The girls were Elizabeth, Phoebe and Emma. It seems that some of these older children were married. Of the Hales the mother writes, "They were an intelligent and highly re-
JOSEPH SMITH'S LIFE
spected family?were pleasantly situated, and lived in good style in the town of Harmony, on the Susquehanna River."
Speaking of Joseph's life before he left for Pennsylvania, the mother leaves us this important information: "He continued to receive instructions from the Lord, and we continued to get the children together every evening, for the purpose of listening while he related his experiences. I presume our family presented an aspect as singular as any that ever lived upon the face of the earth?all seated in a circle, father, mother, sons and daughters, and giving the most profound attention to a boy, eighteen years of age." For "We were now confirmed in the opinion that God was about to bring to light something upon which we could stay our minds, or that would give us a more perfect knowledge of the plan of salvation and the redemption of the human family. This caused us greatly to rejoice; the sweetest union and happiness pervaded our house; and tranquility reigned in our midst.
"During our evening conversations, Joseph would occasionally give us some of the most amusing recitals that could be imagined. Would describe the ancient inhabitants of this continent; their dress, mode of traveling, and the animals upon which they rode; their cities, their buildings, with every particular; their mode of warfare; and also their religious worship. This he would do with as much ease, seemingly, as if he had spent his whole life among them." (Era, Vol. 5, p 257.)
Again the mother shows Joseph's early seership: "One day he said that he would give us an example," (of some of the Churchmen's hearts
151
about them), "and that we might set it down as a prophecy; viz:? 'You look at Deacon Jessup', said he, 'and you hear him talk very piously. Well, you think he is a very good man. Now suppose that one of his poor neighbors should owe him the value of a cow, and that this poor man had eight little children; moreover, that he should be taken sick and die, leaving his wife with one cow, but destitute of every other means of supporting herself and family?now I tell you, that Deacon Jessup, religious as he is, would not scruple to take the last cow from the poor widow and orphans, in order to secure the debt, notwithstanding he himself has an abundance of everything.'
"At that time, this seemed impossible to us, yet one year had scarcely expired when we saw Joseph's prophecy literally fulfilled." (Era, Vol. 5, p. 325.)
It was this extraordinary broad-shouldered, light - complexioned, blue-eyed, athletic-six-footer, bearing a native countenance of frankness and stability, that Emma Hale for the first time set her eyes upon, when, one evening late in October 1825, Joseph presented himself at her supper table, coming as a regular boarder. Emma likewise, was no child, being fully matured, charmingly proportioned, possessing jet black locks and dark sparkling eyes ?a real woman, having passed her twenty-first birthday by more than three months. Almost immediately something more than friendship began springing up between the two. I dare say that in all the country around about no one could find a pair better mated, both being designated as "naturally good looking."
Let me here digress a moment. "The Prophet," wrote an English traveler in 1843, "is a kind, cheer-
152
ful, sociable companion.?As I saw the Prophet and his brother Hyrum conversing together one day, I thought I beheld two of the greatest men of the nineteenth century." An officer of the United States Artillery, who visited Nauvoo in 1842, exclaimed: "The Smiths are not without talent. Joseph, the chief, is a noble-looking fellow, a Mahomet, every inch of him!" A Congressman writing to his wife says, "He is what the ladies would call a very good-looking man." These statements I quote to inform the reader that not only was Joseph gifted in spiritual faculties, but possessed physical endowments at once congenial and attractive.
Of Emma, the Lord a little later declared (Section 25, D. & C.) "Behold thy sins are forgiven thee, and thou art an ELECT LADY, whom I have called." (The Prophet Joseph, when organizing the Relief Society, at Nauvoo, March 17, 1842, explained that an "Elect Lady" is one who is elected to do a certain work in the Church, and that this revelation was fulfilled when Emma was elected president of that organization. (See D. & C. Commentary, p. 173.)
In the same Revelation, the Lord continues, "And the office of thy calling shall be for a comfort unto my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., thy husband, in his afflictions, with consoling words, in the spirit of meekness.?And thou shalt be ordained under his hand to expound scriptures, and to exhort the Church, according as it shall be given unto thee by my spirit?And verily I say unto thee, thou shalt lay aside the things of this world, and seek for the things of a better. And it shall be given thee, also, to make a selection of sacred hymns, as it shall be given unto thee, which is pleasing
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
unto me, to be had in my Church; for my soul delighteth in the song of the heart, yea the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads." This shows that the Lord was interested also in Emma.
From that first day in October, 1825, when these two young folks stood facing one another until nineteen summers later, when Joseph was shot to death at Carthage, they moved through the persecutions of the Church as "twin-halves, born for each other."
Regarding the fruitless search for the silver mine, Joseph writes, we "continued to work for nearly a month, without success in our undertaking, and finally I prevailed with the old gentleman to cease digging for it."
When the first snows of November, 1825, blanketed the rolling hills of Northern Pennsylvania, Joseph bade adieu to his dark-eyed sweetheart, and traveling forty miles northward into the State of New York, began working for the winter at the Stoal ranch, located some eighty miles from the Hill Cumorah, and a few miles north of Colesville, which was the home of Joseph Knight. It was here in 1830, Emma was baptized, and this was the place also where the Prophet was first arrested and brought into court for trial.
Joseph does not inform us how often during the winter of 1825-26, he traveled the forty-mile trail to Harmony, neither does he mention visiting with his parents during this time. We can suppose, nevertheless, since Joseph seemed to believe that Emma would soon be his, that he related to her in detail his marvelous manifestations regarding the Father and Son; also Moroni and the precious golden records; the
JOSEPH SMITH'S LIFE
Hill Cumorah and other events, ending, no doubt, by stating that the time was drawing near for the restoration of the true Church with its accompanying gifts and blessings. Imagine, however, the young folks' dismay, when Joseph told the story to Emma's parents; for they believed not a word of it. The little town of "Harmony" from that day forward ceased to be "Harmony". The tide of opposition soon began swelling, and although it ebbed at times, none of the family but Emma ever joined the Church.
We learn that during part of the summer of 1826, while Joseph was twenty-years of age, he was back home working with his parents. Of this year the mother writes, that immediately after the threshing was over, Josiah Stoal and Joseph Knight arrived from Colesville, a town seventy-five miles southeast, and purchased Mr. Smith's grain. "Joseph called my husband and myself aside," says sister Smith, "and explained, 'I have been very lonely ever since Alvin died, and I have concluded to get married; and if you have no objections to my uniting myself in marriage with Miss Emma Hale, she would be my choice in preference to any other woman I have seen.' We were pleased with his choice, and not only consented to his marrying her, but requested him to bring her home with him, and live with us."
In contrast to modern methods of speedy love making, Joseph set out on the round-trip of more than two hundred miles with his wagon and team. When once at the Hale home, however, Joseph and his intended were soon laying plans for the future. Imagine their shock when upon placing their desires before Emma's parents, the whole affair was disrupted with the statement
153
that Emma should not marry a "visionary man" nor one who possessed no lands of his own. Although Emma had passed her twenty-second year and reasoned her right to marry her own choice, the parents overruled. Following a scene of tears, the date was postponed and Joseph went north to work at the Stoal ranch.
Two months slowly dragged by, and the Prophet had passed his twenty-first birthday for about three weeks. Again he was at the Hale home. It was finally decided to have the ceremony take place thirty miles north near Colesville, the town where Emma's sister lived. Accordingly, on January 18, 1827, Squire Tarbill performed the marriage north of Colesville twelve or fifteen miles, near the Stoal home or at the Stoal home, Joseph does not say which. He does record, however, "Immediately after my marriage, I left Mr. Stoal's and went to my father's and farmed with them that season", 1827, the year the plates were delivered.
Of the above events the mother continues, "And the next January (1827) Joseph returned with his wife, in good health and fine spirits."
Can you see this mature couple ready to leave the Stoal's ranch, bidding them a fond farewell and then heading their bob-sleigh on a two or three days' journey toward the Hill Cumorah and the Smith home? How their souls must have burned as they looked forward upon the future! Passing westward, Joseph no doubt, pointed out to Emma the various places of interest, saying words like these upon reaching the famous Hill Cumorah: "Think of it Emma! Four times already I have actually visited with Moroni up yonder among those trees, near the
154
top, there on the west side! Eight more months and the angel and I shall meet again. I can hardly realize the fact that then I am actually to receive the plates, the Urim and Thummim, and Breast Plate, hold them in my hands, and bring them home?Oh, how wonderful! Then how we shall work to learn the strange story they possess! Emma, you cannot understand how happy I am to know that you believe all my statements. You see, the angel has also told me repeatedly that the "fulness of the everlasting Gospel" is upon the records, just as it was delivered by the Savior to the ancient inhabitants of this land. I was also informed that I should stand at the head of the restored Church
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
and that the new organization was to be the very "kingdom of God" as seen by Daniel to be 'set up in the last days.' "
Can you see this trusting young woman, nestling among blankets and covers against a cold winter wind, affirming in no mistakable terms her confidence in her husband's testimonies? Vaguely, however, did she dream, of the trying years ahead, or of the cost of becoming a joint-heir with a "dispensation-opener"?a real "Prophet" with "The Kingdom of God at Hand."
Our second chapter will narrate further facts regarding Joseph and Emma with special attention to the Plates and the Hill Cumorah.