Out Of My Thorn By Helen Kimball Orgill I wove my broken blossoms Into a chaplet fair; I treasured every tear drop And strung a necklet rare; And all the heart-felt longing I made into a song? O boon of sweet evolving, From out my thorn and thong! How fully have I tested Deep joy and biting pains; I've found that without losses One never can have gains. Notes from the Field Box ELperR STAKE Box Elder Stake: The above group represents the characters in a one-act play entitled "How the Story Grew," which was presented by the teachers' department of the Third Ward of Brigham City, at their teachers' convention in October. The play is a little entertainment that deals with gossiping and its results. Although it is a humorous sketch and greatly exaggerated, yet it conveyed a message to every sister who attended the meeting, and each one went home with a resolve in her heart that she would not be guilty of spreading gossip about her friends. The story centers around a group of kind hearted and well meaning neighbors. A bit of gossip is thrown their way, and each one, in repeating it to her neighbors, adds enough of her own imagination, so that the truth is lost. It creates a great deal of consternation when the real truth is known. Sharon Stake: Sharon stake is the next youngest stake in the Church, but it is now fully organized, and promises a most successful year's work. Seven ? wards were taken from the Utah stake in September, 1929, and the Sharon stake was formed. On November 24, the first stake conference was held with a very gratifying attendance. Mrs, Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary of the Relief Society was in attendance and gave the address for the General Board. Mrs. Evalina Reed, Utah County nurse, spoke on "Child Health in Our Community." Sharon stake board members, Mrs. Maud W. Partridge, Mrs. Lena Andreason and Mrs. Sarah Shaw also gave short addresses on "Child Health." "The Value of Play for Children and Opportunities in this Community," and "Recreation for Young Folks, Employment, etc."