[Vol1 | April 1914 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Genealogy and Testimony]

GENEALOGY AND TESTIMONY Lesson IV.
Ten minutes talk on Current Events.
Note-Books and Family Records.
The importance of making correct records of our dead and of preserving these most carefully is amply attested in the revelations to the Prophet Joseph Smith.
We would suggest that the sisters in the Relief Society begin this lesson by reading the 128th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants.
Especially do we emphasize those sentences in verse 8 which reads: ''Whatsoever you record on earth, shall be recorded in heaven; for out of the books shall your dead be judged, according to their own works, whether they themselves have attended to the ordinances in their own 'propria persona,' or by the means of their own agents, according to the ordinance which God has prepared for their salvation from before the foundation of the world, according to the records which they have kept concerning their dead." The genealogical data should be placed first in a pencil note-book and then copied with ink into the family records.
The Genealogical Society have printed a special note-book for the use of the Saints in preparing their genealogical data which materially assists to simplify their work.
The penciled note-book may be one of those suggested costing 10c each, or an ordinary note-book, size about 8y2 by 14.
This size is selected because of its convenience in taking sufficient data on one page.
On the fly-leaf of this book should be the full name of the person who records the data, the address of that person, the date of the beginning of the work in the book, and the date of its completion.
These dates give little history clues in the making up of the genealogical data.
On the fly-leaf also should be placed the fact of whether it is English names, or American names that are gathered in the book, or whether they are names taken from a traditional source or some genealogical or public library, or a written or printed record.
Moreover, on the top of each page of the note-book as well as on each page of the Family Record for temple use, the particular book or register from which that page of information is taken, should always be recorded.
This source of information is invaluable for the replacing of neglected data, or for future reference.
For instance, if we had searched Vol.
Ill of London Marriages, we should not want to search that again, and this recording of the source of information prevents duplication of research and confusion. 6 The names of our dead are the symbols in which their images are called up to our own minds and to the minds of those who read these symbols on a written or printed page; indeed these symbols are in very many cases the only earthly remains of our ancestral dead.
The bodies of our fathers sleep in the dust, the tombstones in the cemeteries have fallen into the earth or have given place in the centuries to others crowding in upon them.
There is nothing left, therefore, of these, our forefathers, except the written church records, or a printed book upon which the symbols that represent the Christian, or surname of the individual may be recorded.
How carefully then should the Latter-Day Saints preserve every scrap of paper upon which is written or printed the names of their ancestors.
The Family Record for temple work can be purchased from the Deseret News Book Store or the Sunday School Union Book Store at various prices.
It is always better to take a threequire book which is cheaper proportionately, because there are more pages for the same price in the three-quire book than in the one-quire book.
The binding is the expensive part of it, and there is no student but what will have plenty of names to fill up, not only one, but many, many books with the names of his dead.
After the note-book has been carefully arranged and filled, this data may be copied into the Family Record of temple work.
All of the rules and suggestions that have been laid down for the pencil note-book in regard to name, address, date of work done, and sources of information, should be followed in the Family Record quite as scrupulously as in the note-book.
A sample of the note-book form of preparing data is given on page 15 of this Bulletin.
April HOME ETHICS Lesson IV. (Twenty Minutes.) Ten minutes talk on Current Events. (a) Respect and mutual interest in the home. (b) No one person is independent of any and all other persons. (c) The home circle may be compared to an intricate piece of machinery. (d) Parents are responsible for order and system in their homes, or for the lack of that condition. (e) Children pattern largely after their parents.
 (f) Respect for right and authority begin at home. (g) Washington and Lincoln merit respect and love. (h) Parents should be the confidants and companions of their children, (i) No worldly pleasure can ever compensate a mother for the loss of one soul from her own family, (j) To our pioneer fathers and mothers we owe respect, love and veneration.
Respect and Mutual Interest in the Home.
In every complete and perfectly ordered home, there should be mutual interest existing between all the members and inmates thereof.
Fathers and mothers, sons and daughters, should be bound together, not shutting out the help employed in the family.
Each person is in a large way dependent on every other person.
The home circle is, in comparison, similar to a fine piece of machinery, every little cog, brace or balance-wheel, has its duty to perform and is alike important in its own particular place.
Order and system, respect and reverence in the home, are largely in the hands of parents, or guardians.
Their example permeates every branch and corner of the home nest.
Children copy largely from fathers and mothers in what they do; therefore, how necessary it is that the parents plan and achieve right and proper ends.
If the interest of the heads of the home be cemented with their children's best interests, all who enter such an abode will feel and recognize the sweet and precious influence.
Respect begins in the immediate family; it is gained or lost around the hearthstone.
The standard of each household is measured by the true faith, love, honor and dignity maintained in that elementary community. "When we read the histories of foreign countries and their leaders' lives, and compare them with those of our own America, we cannot fail to appreciate and revere our great "Washington, the founder, and Lincoln, the preserver, of our Union.
Their example, under the most trying difficulties, is worthy of emulation.
The respect, the love, and the united interest, which these two men inspired, even in their colored servants and humblest subjects, are truly admirable and praiseworthy.
Respect is essential to success in every walk in life respect; for the rights of others, and for mutual interest engenders respect for ourselves and our own rights.
In the home it is necessary to show interest in what the children do, in their friends, their pleasures and in their education; we should show interest in their religious, mental,  8 BELIEF SOCIETY BULLETIN moral, and social life we should read the literature they read, ; and thus understand what effect their pursuits have upon their characters.
We should discuss with them the subjects that lie near their hearts, be companions and confidants to them.
Mothers will suffer more regret, more sorrow, over one beautiful soul lost through lack of proper care, than they will receive pleasures in all that the world can ever offer. 'Tis not our province to give lengthy topics along "Home Ethics," but, dear sisters, we do wish to impress you with faith and belief in the importance of proper family life and its great responsibility.
As we sit here thinking and writing, our mind goes back over a long life.
We see our childhood again, and the worthy, noble, heroic, good men and women, our parents and pioneers, who have left a heritage, better, stronger and more lasting to us, than all the wealth, grandeur or distinction of this world.
Their sacrifice of all they possessed on the altar of principle; their unsullied life work; their patient surmounting of difficulties all these are precious bequests to us by our valiant fathers and mothers, the "Mormon" pioneers!
Their hope and faith in God, their respect for each other, and their united interest in the Church leaders and in their homes, brought to them success and spiritual victory, and to us, their descendants, these virtues should be as rich heritages.
April