[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		EMERY STAKE.
	The Emery Stake Relief Society con-
ference convened at Huntington on
Friday, October 30, 1908. Two sessions were
held, beginning at ten a. m. and two p. m.,
respectively. Although there were no visit-
ors from the general board, the conference
was a decided success. Nine local branches
were represented. The welcome address
was given by Mary A. Sorenson, and Coun-
selors Caroline M. Guymon and Mary J.
King, who spoke on Relief Society work in
general, and encouraged the sisters to con-
tinue the good work.
	Favorable reports were given of the fol
lowiug: Huntington, Castledale, Orange-
ville, Emery, Ferron, Lawrence, Cleveland,
Desert Lake and Price.
	Sister Alice Whimpey read a chapter from
the life of Joseph Smith. 
	Sisters Hattie Reid and Amanda Tuttle
rendered a duet entitled, “When the Mists
Have Cleared Aw’ay.”
	A report of the Sunnyside Relief Society
was read by President Mary A. Sorenson.
	Sister Kate Fulmer gave a lecture on
Woman’s Influence in the Home Town,
County and State.”
	A song was rendered by Sister Rachel
Thomas.
	Sister Mary T. Fowler gave a talk on
“Prohibition,” taking for her subject “Does
it pay to have liquors sold, and thus get
the revenue?”
	Sister Rosella Riley spoke on “Prohibi-
tion” and the means of obtaining the same.
	Elder John Wakefield spoke encourag-
ingly to the sisters and asked the Lord to
bless them in their efforts to do good.
	Sisters Cecelia Woodward, Hannah Leon-
ard and Elizabeth Howard sang “When I
I Reap What I Have Sown.” President
Mary A. Sorenson said she had enjoyed
the conference, and spoke on Mother’s
Plan Work, hospital funds, socials for Relief
Society teachers, etc., and thanked all for
their help. A song was rendered by Sister
Hannah Leonard. Sister Esther Grange
reported the prohibition movement and ex-
plained the same. Bishop Antone Neilson

[Column 2]
expressed himself in favor of prohibition
and thought the women were engaged in a
good cause.
	After singing and benediction the confer-
ence adjourned for six months.
			ANNIE MARIA ALLEN,
					Secretary.

