with a presidency and corps of assistants

[Column 2]
over each stake of Zion, and under these the
presidencies, teachers and members con-
stituting the ward society. Inasmuch as the
membership of the Relief Society is some-
thing like 35,000, the remarkably systematic
nature of its work will be evident from the
statement that the general president is kept
at all times in perfect touch with the vari-
ous charities and operations of each branch
society, no matter how small or how remote
it may be.
	There are 59 stakes of Zion and each of
these, as stated, has an organization of the
society. It is the president in each of these
stakes who is the medium between the local
workers and the general officers. All in-
structions for the conduct of the work are
communicated to the members through her,
and the work done by the members is like-
wise reported by her. It will be seen, there-
fore, that these stake presidents must needs
be very busy women in directing the affairs
of all the different wards over which they
preside and in making personal visits, not
only to the wards, but also to the homes of
the people. Some of them travel during the
year many miles over dreadful roads in order
to make these visits, while others have the
convenience of railway trains or street cars;
but whether their stakes be scattered or com-
pact, it is their duty to be personally ac-
quainted with all the work and all the work-
ers under their supervision, to know all the
conditions of the people, and to be able to
outline such policy and direct such labor as
the circumstances of their people seem to
require.
	It will be apparent that the organizations
having the most work to perform in a char-
ity sense are those located in and near the
larger cities, Salt Lake, Ogden, etc. In fact
the first Relief Society stake organization of
the Church was that of the Weber stake
where Mrs. Jane S. Richards presided with
untiring zeal for the welfare of the people
for 31 years. Besides overseeing the affairs
of the many wards in that large stake,
she personally visited hundreds of homes to
alleviate suffering and took to her own home
and provided for the immediate wants of
countless transients and wayfarers. Her re-
sidence in Ogden was so near the railway
station that she never had to look far for op-
portunity to give relief. She only retired
from her arduous work when Weber stake
was recently subdivided and new organiza-
tions were formed—and this when she had
reached the glorious age of 86 years in the
cycle of life.
	The original Salt Lake stake Relief Socie-
ty was presided over 27 years by that most
worthy and benevolent woman, Mary Isa-
bella Horne, whose name will ever be re-
vered among the women of Zion for the wise
counsel, her tender ministrations to the sick
and those who were called to mourn, and
for the wonderful skill and prudence with
which she directed the charity and business
affairs of the association under her charge.
It was under the direction of Mrs. Horne
that the class of Relief Society Nurses was
inaugurated, with Dr. Roberts as instructor
and Mrs. W. W. Riter as superintendent, the
purpose being to provide trained help for

[Column 3]
the needy sick instead of relying altogether
on the Relief Society workers, who already
had so much to do. Out of that part of the
vineyard over which Mrs. Horne presided
with such signal ability, six stakes have
since been created—Jordan, Granite, Liber-
ty, Pioneer, Salt Lake and Ensign.
	The stake Relief Society of the first-named
is presided over by Mrs. Hildah H. Larsen.
Composed mostly of a farming community,
the people generally, while not rich, are not
poor; and the labors of the Society are di-
rected more to taking care of the sick than
in relieving want.
	A large part of Granite stake, like Jordan,
is rural; but there is also a large part thick-
ly settled by renters and people of unstable
incomes—those who work hard when work
is to be had but depend largely on the con-
dition of the times for their employment.
The Society in this stake is presided over
by Mrs. Emma S. Woodruff and the labors
of the organization are many and varied.
Some of the most interesting conferences of
women held in the Church are held in Gra-
nite stake, and splendid efforts are being
made to educate the women along the lines
of Church history and biography. Clothing
is gathered in large quantities, and a work
department renovates and makes over gar-
ments to be given out to the poor in the
stake.
	The Liberty stake Society is presided over
by Mrs. Annie S. Musser, and it consists of
eight wards. Among other things under-
taken by this organization is helping the
poor in their temple work, those who have
not the time and means for genealogical re-
search and subsequent work for the dead,
being assisted by the Society. A certain day
once a month is given by the women for
temple work for the poor, and thus the bles-
sings and ordinances for the dead have been
and are being bestowed upon hundreds,
through the labors of these good women.
Like the Society in other parts of this city,
the poor they have always with them, and
they are found ever ready to extend a help-
ing hand and give comfort to those who
need. Their average annual disbursement
for charity is about $1,000, but their minis-
trations in distress cannot be counted in
dollars and cents. A unique work done in
this stake is in the direction of an employ-
ment bureau for girls. In each ward some
woman has an office desk where she takes
the names of girls desiring work and the
names of places where girls can find suitable
employment; the Society in this way retain-
ing a supervision and watchcare, to some
extent at least, over the working girls. This
admirable plan is still in embryo, but it is
certain to be the means of accomplishing
much good.
	Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon presides over
the Pioneer stake Relief Society. The peo-
ple residing in this stake are largely of the
laboring class, there being few of wealth and
many of the poor. The Society distributes
annually something like $1,300 in charity;
and when one reflects that this amount is col-
lected almost entirely by the teachers in their
regular visits from house to house, and gather-
ed in small sums from those who are them-


