A PARTY AND BANQUET
(in Honor of Sister Ellen D. Clark on her Sixty-Ninth
				Birthday.)
	On November 22nd, 1908, the Relief So-
ciety of the Second Ward of American Fork,
together with the local board members of
the other three wards, also stake officers,
Pres. Rebecca Standring, Counselors Annie
C. Hindley, and Harriet Jacobs, Secretary
Emma Featherstone, Asst. Sec. Emma J.
Robberts, Relief Society Missionaries Sina
Chipman, Mary Webb, and Rachel Hunter,
met in the 2nd ward chapel at 2 p. m.
	A conveyance was then sent for Sister
Clark, who supposed that a singing practice
was going to be held, but before she had
reached her accustomed seat, knew that the
beautiful decorations, and the distinguished
faces present meant something unusual, but
a few seconds had passed when she took in
the situation, and knew she was the victim
of a surprise party.
	A good program was rendered, many
beautiful sentiments and good wishes for
our dear sister were expressed. A delicious
lunch was served during which time toasts
and sentiments were given in honor of the
stake officers.
	Sister Clark was so overcome she could
hardly express her feelings.
	She has been a worker in the Relief So-
ciety ever since its first organization in
American Fork. For many years has been
local agent for the Woman’s Exponent, and
is an active worker in the Alpine stake at
the present time.
	A beautiful black silk dress pattern was
presented to Sister Clark as a token, of re-
membrance.
				ELIZA BUCKWALTER,
							Secretary.


Lines to Sister Ellen D. Clarke,
Written by Eliza Buckwalter, Sec. of Am. Fork
		2nd Ward Relief Society.

	In the dear old land of Scotland,
	In a town near the “Firth of Forth”
	A little baby girl was born,
	Who has proven of wondrous worth.

	She was watched o’er by fond parents,
	Who were anxious about her fame;
	It was finally decided 
	That Ellen D. should be her name.

	She glided along through childhood,
	Was both intelligent and bright;
	When the gospel truths were shown her,
	She could plainly see its light.

	Let us gather unto “Zion,”
	Could be heard on every hand
	To dwell among the “Saints of God” 
	She left her dear, native land.
		
	The journey no doubt was a long one,
	But at last reached American Fork;
	Where every one knew and loved her;
	And to all was “dear Sister Clark.”

	This life is not always sunshine,
	Our sister had sorrow to share;
	Her husband this life departed,
	She was left for her children to care.

	She struggled along most bravely,
	Determined her mission to fill,
	She never found time to falter,
	While climbing up life’s busy hill.

	In Sunday School, Relief Society,
	Choir, ‘‘Old Folks,” or whatever part,
	She labored on untiringly,
	With willing hand and loving heart.

	When that sad accident befell her.
	Not even a complaining word,
	But endured all most patiently 
	And said “’tis the will of the Lord.”

	In preparing Temple raiment,
	She seems to take special delight,
	That those who go to the House of God,
	Will have those sacred things all right.

	In filling the empty caskets,
	With bodies whose spirits have flown,
	The number has been recorded,
	And will speak when the bugle has blown.

	The many good deeds of our sister,
	We can never, never portray;
But we know the welcome words “well done,”
Will be said on the great judgment day.


