MARIA WEALTHY RICHARDS WILCOX.

“No sighs are heard in the shadowy place
	No voices of them that weep
They have fought the fight and finished the race,
	God giveth them rest in sleep.

“Are they dreaming, the sleepers pale and still.
	For their faces are rapt and calm,
As though they were treading the Holy Hill,
	And hearkening the angel’s psalm,”

	In recording the departure of those we
have been intimately associated with to a
higher life beyond, we often fail not only in
satisfying their immediate relatives and
friends, but in expressing our own senti-
ments. It has fallen to my lot, many times
to write notices of my friends, and I have
sometimes thought will there be any left of
those I knew in early womanhood? I have
felt this very deeply in the demise of Sister
Wilcox. For many years we have met each
other in “sweet converse,” as it were daily,
and as I sit here writing, I almost feel I
might look up and see her coming in the
door, but alas, no. We shall not meet
again on this side the veil, that hides those
who have left us for that “Betterland from
our view.
	Sister Wilcox was one of those who knew
the Prophet Joseph Smith and had sat under
his teaching and could bear testimony of
him and of his divine mission. Of those
who knew the prophet and could testify of 
his wonderful personality and powerful

[Column 2]
ministrations among the Saints there are
but few remaining.
	Sister Maria Wealthy Richards was
born, so to speak, among the Berkshire hills
in the old Bay State; many of the great men
and women of the world boast of coming
from that celebrated locality, and a number
of illustrious Latter day Saints, the Richards
and Spencer families and others. Miss
Richards was born in Richmond, Berkshire
Co., Massachusetts, June 17, 1827, her par-
ents were Phinehas Howe, cousin of Brig-
ham Young, and Wealthy Dewey Richards.
They were of the early Puritans, and proud
of that descent. Sister Wilcox was Puri-
tanical in manner, in habits possessing all
the very best qualities of that noble origin.
Her father’s family, including herself, be-
came converts to the “Mormon” faith and
moved to Nauvoo, Illinois, in 1843; the
daughter, Maria, had received a good com-
mon school education and taught school
herself when fifteen years of age.
	On Dec. 10, 1855, Miss Richards was
married to Walter Eli Wilcox, who was
born in Dorchester, Mass., adjoining Boston.
After the marriage Mr. and Mrs. Wilcox
went to St. Louis. Mo., to reside and from
that city emigrated to Salt Lake City, with
a large company of Saints in ox teams, ar-
riving in the valley in September, 1852.
	Sister Wilcox endured the hardships of
that three months’ journey across the plains
with that same heroic fortitude that she
has manifested throughout her whole life.
	Sister Wilcox has always been a busy
woman, possessing the best characteristics
of a wife and mother and a model home-
maker; she was orderly, industrious, econ-
omicsl and thrifty, and neatness personified
in herself and in her home and surround-
ings; fond of flowers, and especially roses
which she always raised in abundance. We
can never forget her gifts of roses, from her
own garden.
	A sweet and dainty poem written by Ruth
M. Fox on her eightieth birthday, calling
her “A June Rose,” is very applicable to
her life and the poem closes with these ex-
quisite lines:

		“To a rose fully blown
		We do honor today,
		Of exquisite neatness,
Rounded and full-a corolla of sweetness;
Old rose, we will call it for sake of completenss,
A life of well-doing drives old age away.

		The twilight is passing
		Dear friends gone before
		Are calling, soft calling,
The petals are falling, falling fast falling
But the way is not long, nor dark, nor appalling
There roses bloom ever to wither no more.”

	The complete poem was published in the
June number of this paper 1907.
	Sister Wilcox was an active member of
the Relief Society from its inception here,
and was elected Corresponding Secretary of
the Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake in De-
cember 1877, when the stake was organized,
and continued to fill that office and to visit
in the various wards of the stake until the
division of the stake in 1903, although in
1899 she was chosen President of the Relief
Society in the Fourteenth ward in this city
which position she held at the time of her
death. She has been one of the workers of
the Salt Lake Temple ever since it was
opened for ordinances in May 1893, and has
seldom been absent. She has also officiated
for very many of her kindred, who had pas-
sed away without the knowledge of the Gos-
pel, and she will without doubt be welcomed
with joy and gladness by them, when she

[Column 3]
reaches the “other side.” Thousands will
miss her here, and the sisters who officiate
in the Temple most of all perhaps except
her immediate family.
	She died on Wednesday evening, January
13, 1909, full of faith and good works and
with a full assurance of an abundant en-
trance into the celestial kingdom, for she had
been faithful and true to all her covenants,
and had accepted every principle pertaining
to exaltation, as revealed through the Prophet
of the Lord; and had received all the ordin-
ances and blessings pertaining to an exalta-
tion hereafter.
	Sister Wilcox’s funeral was held in the
Assembly Hall in the ward where she resided,
and the house was crowded with her rela-
tives and friends. Bishop Elias Woodruff
presided and Prof. C. J. Thomas and the
Temple choir furnished sacred music, the
Hymns were “Unveil thy bosom, faithful
tomb” and “Farewell all earthly honors,”
and the following solos were beautifully ren-
dered: “Sometime we will understand,” by
Miss Edith Grant; “Face to Face,” by Mrs.
Lizzie Thomas Edward; and “O Love Di-
vine,” by Mrs. George Q Morris. The opening
prayer was by Elder Rodney C. Badger and
the speakers were Bishop George Romney,
President John R. Winder, President Anthon
H. Lund, President Bathsheba W. Smith
and Sister Emmeline B. Wells who repre-
sented the General Relief Society. The clos-
ing prayer was offered by Elder Adolph
Madsen.
	The beautiful white casket was literally
covered with the most delicate flowers in
every conceivable design. The Relief So-
ciety of the Fourteenth Ward took charge of
the flowers in the “Big Utah.” The pall
bearers were the four sons and two eldest
grandsons of Sister Wilcox. Her sons are
George A., Charles F., Franklin A., and Ed-
ward E. Wilcox; grandsons Walter Arnold,
and Stevenson Wilcox. A large cortege fol-
lowed the remains to the grave where Elder
Horace Cummings dedicated the grave.
	Sister Wilcox was the mother of nine chil-
dren, one son died a few years ago and four
sons and four daughters survive her and a
large number of grandchildren and great-
grandchildren.
	Sister Wilcox was only severely ill three
days, having attended the tabernacle ser-
vices as usual on Sunday, January 10; she
was most exemplary in all her religious du-
ties.

“Better than earthly presence e’en the dearest,
	Is the great blessing that our partings bring;
For in the loneliest moments God is nearest,
	And from our sorrows heavenly comforts spring,
			If God be with us.”

“Good-bye, good-bye, with latest breath we say
		it,
	A legacy of hope, and faith, and love;
Parting must come, we cannot long delay it
	But one in Him, we hope to meet above,
		If God be with us,”
								E. B. W.


The California suffragists have opened
legislative headquarters at Sacramento, and
the New York suffragists at Albany, and
there are other State suffrage headquarters
Des Moines and Chicago, besides the old
National Headquarters at Warren, O., where
a vast amopnt of business is done, and the
newly opened one in Washington, D. C., for
Congressional work. But Boston can boast
of the oldest suffrage headquarters in the
country, maintained in that city without a
break for nearly forty years.—Ex.


