[Column 1]
Frances E. Willard,	Born in	1832.
Louisa M. Alcott,		“	1854. 
Harriet Beecher Stowe,	“	1819.
Julia Ward Howe,		“	1819.
The latter was a writer of wonderful power.
She wrote “Marching On,” which became
the battle hymn of the republic. Her “Stir-
ring Appeal to Womanhood,” is pronounced
the ablest Peace Manifesto ever written, and
has been translated into French, German,
Italian and Swedish. Notwithstanding the
fact that Mrs. Howe had the intellectual
powers generally looked for in the male sex,
she lost none of her womanly nature. She
writes “The world looks to women and de-
pends upon them for its moral and spiritual
advancement.” Their release from wornout
traditions as to the sphere-of woman has
broadened their horizon and increased their
ambition to live higher lives of morality and
intellectuality.
	Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who was born
in 1815, called the first woman’s rights con-
vention in 1848. And in that first year
succeeded in getting the “Married Woman’s
Property Bill,’ passed.
	Clara Barton, who was born in 1825, was
the first woman to hold a regular clerical
position under the government.
	Elizabeth Stuart Phelps Ward, who was
born in 1844, was a descendant from the
Mayflower company. Here are a few of her
own words: “Not until the few last decades
has woman been permitted to rise to the
full measure of her capacity for usefulness.
Formerly her activity was confined to the
sphere of her own home, and public opin-
ion condemned, as unseemly, her ap-
pearance in public, or her active participa-
tion in enterprises outside of her do-
mestic circle. A change has been
wrought and within the last half century
there has been a multitude of women whose
acheivements for the uplifting of the race
have commanded the affectionate admira-
tion of mankind.”
	Last, but by no means least, on my list,
is the name of Susan B. Anthony, who was
born February 15, 1820. She came of good
and upright parents. Her father was a
Quaker and her mother a Baptist. Her
father had been reprimanded by the Quaker
authorities for marrying a Baptist and for
wearing a comfortable cloak. He was fin-
ally expelled for allowing a room in his
house to be used for the instruction of his
children. Though a wealthy cotton manu-
facturer, he desired that his children should
be trained for professions. His daughters
were prepared in the best private schools
for teaching, which was the only vocation
open to women. At the age of eighteen
Susan became a private teacher in a Quaker
family, at one dollar a week and board.
When the financial crash of 1837 came, it
carried with it Mr. Anthony’s wealth, and
his wisdom in fitting his children for an
emergency was clearly proved. They were
all teaching and were of great assistance to
him in his distress. Susan was successful
to a marked degree, and devoted fifteen
years to the work. She was an active
member of the New York teacher’s associa-
tion, and made many effectual appeals for
higher salaries in the profession, and for
equal rights and equal compensation for
women, in all its honors, labors and
responsibilities. Lady teachers are in-
indebted to Miss Anthony for much
of the improved conditions of later
years. There can be no doubt but that Miss
Anthony was born for the work of a reform-
er and a philanthropist. She may have in-

[Column 2]
herited much of a lofty nature and patriotic
tendency, yet heridity is not all. There
are men and women born into the world at
certain periods of time for a distinctive
purpose, with a mission to fulfill for their
fellowmen. Their pathway is not smooth
for them. They are pioneers through new
fields of advancement, the pathfinders to
growth and culture, possessing the attributes
of faithful endurance and steadfastness.
	Miss Anthony early became interested in
temperance. In 1852, she organized a
woman’s temperance league, the first in the
country. Mrs. Stanton was its president
and Miss Anthony was secretary. In the
same year she was sent by the Daughters of
Temperance at Albany, to a state mass
meeting of the Sons of Temperance. Dur-
ing a discussion among the men she arose
to speak, but was not allowed to do it. The
women present were horrified and indig-
nant, and called her “the bold thing.” The
president of the meeting, with all the digni-
ty he could command informed her that
women were not expected to speak in meet-
ings, but only to be spectators. He meant
to settle the question forever, but the re-
buke acted like a firebrand to one of
Susan’s temperament. She marched out of
the hall, half a dozen others following, to
the residence of Lydia Mott, a cousin of
Lucretia Mott, where they held an indigna-
ation meeting. It was during these years
ot active work that Miss Anthony deter-
mined to work for greater freedom for
women, and decided that in order to suc-
ceed they must have the privilege of the
franchise. She allied herself with the suf-
frage movement, leaving other reforms
largely to her co-workers.
	It would be difficult for our young people
of today to realize the conditious of society
and the primitive educational advantages
at the time of Miss Anthony’s girlhood.
The changes wrought since then are mar-
velous and much credit is due this brave
woman, who had the courage to face the sit-
uation and stand boldly for the defense of
education for girls and equal privileges for
both sexes. Almost alone and unaided at
times she heralded truths with which her
understanding was quickened, even though
they were unacceptable. She, years ago,
plowed the rough way, and sowed the seed
that has taken deep root, and has sprung
up here and there, eventually, to bear
good fruit. At a state teachers’ convention
in Rochester, in 1853, Miss Anthony
claimed the privilege of speaking. There
were many women teachers present, but
none of them had a word to offer. The
question under discussion was why is the
profession of teaching not so much re-
spected as that of lawyers, doctors, and
ministers. A lively debate followed. Miss
Anthony’s request to be heard was at last
granted She said: “Mr. President and
Gentlemen: Do you not see that so long
as society says woman has not the brains
to be a lawyer, a preacher or a doctor
but has sufficient brains to be a teacher,
that every man of you who condescends
to teach school actually acknowledges that
he has no more brains than a woman?”
	There was no great reform advanced for
the uplifting of humanity in which she was
not actively interested. To the very last
she strongly advocated co-education. She
prepared and read a paper in Troy, New
York, in 1856, that called forth from the
ablest members of the convention their
views on the question. Mr. Hazaltine said:
“While I admit the power and talent of

[Column 3]
your retort, I would rather see a daughter of
mine buried beneath the sod than to stand
before a promiscuous audience and utter
such sentiments.” Superintendent Randall
replied. “And I should be proud if I had a
daughter able to do it.” In the winter of
1861 she planned a series of meetings to
begin at Buffalo, New York. Whenever
Miss Anthony and her little band appeared,
they were hissed, mobbed, and their voices
drowned with cries and groans. Ruffians
swore, turned off the gas, took possession
of the platform, and offered every kind of
indignity but she went on with her plans.
To relate how she went from door to door
to secure signatures to petition for the ballot
and equal rights for women, would be too
long a story. At all times she has been a
conspicuous figure, and in later years, she
has received great honors in America and
foreign lands. Above all else she has won
the true love of the people wherever she
was known. In 1871 Miss Anthony, in
company with Mrs. Stanton, crossed the
continent to California, and in passing, vis-
ited Salt Lake City. They lectured in the
old tabernacle in that place.
	When years later on, our delegates from
the National Relief Society and Young
Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Association
went to the National Council of Women
held in Washington, Miss Anthony received
them in a manner which won the love and
admiration of them all. In speaking of,
her life she herself says that her work has
been like subsoil plowing to prepare the
ground for cultivation by women who are
reaping the benefits of fuller opportunities
and higher education. She died at the ad-
vanced age of 86 years (March 17, 1906).
The world is richer and better because of
the beautiful lives and examples of those
prominent characters that we have been dis-
cussing. And while we are blessed in the
enjoyment of twentieth century privileges,
let us not forget that we owe to such char-
acters as I have mentiond, our gratitude
and homage for what they have done.
			SAREPTA E. COWLES.
Ogden First Ward, March 17, 1908.


