			NEBO STAKE.
	Conference convened at Goshen, Friday,
September 18, 1908, at 10 a. m.
	President Eliza J. Dixon presiding, First
Counselor Martha S. Kapple in charge.
Opening exercises as usual, Sister Price,
President of Goshen ward spoke a few
words of welcome and encouragement.
Sister Kapple reported the visit of the Stake
Presidency in Tintic district, and spoke of
the disadvantages under which they labor in
mining camps, also spoke of the great im-
portance of our children marrying in the
Temple.
	Sister Tietjen, president of Santaquin
ward reported her ward in good condition,
and the benefit they are receiving from the
parents’ class work. Their society have
built a new granary; have 1,000 bushels of
grain.
	Sister Foster reported Eureka ward in
good condition. Recitation, Louie Taylor,
entitled "Mother was Away.”

[Column 3]
	Sister Dixon spoke for some time on the
Word of Wisdom and read some of the 89th
section of the Doctrine and Covenants, said
we should use wisdom in all things, the
Word of Wisdom means many things. If
we will keep the laws of God our health will
be good.
	Sister Matilda Dixon read a paper on the
subject of tithing, of its origin, and gave
many references on the subject, and ex-
plained them very beautifully. After singing
and prayer, conference adjourned until 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session at 2 p. m., conference
reconvened, President Dixon presiding,
Mary F. Brown in charge. After singing
and prayer, etc., Sister Page spoke on the
subject of divine authority and explained it
very clearly, also spoke of some of the
things that were spoken of at our last Stake
conference.
	Song by Sister Oakelberry entitled, “The
Old Rag Carpet.”
	Sister Townsend, one of the Stake Board,
spoke on the subject of prayer and its im-
portance, also the answer to prayer.
	Recitation, Sister Powelson, “Trouble in
the Amen Choir.”
	Sister Roberts, of Goshen, was pleased to
have R. S. conference in Goshen again,
spoke of the Relief Society as being the
mother of the Church, also spoke of the
Woman’s Exponent, and the great benefit
and importance it is to the society.
	Bishop Oakelberry spoke of the faithful-
ness of our older sisters, also said we as
young people are seeking the riches and
pleasure of this life too much.
	Brother Finch spoke a few minutes on
the Word of Wisdom, also said we should
work for our spiritual salvation as well as
a temporal one.
	Brother Roberts, one of the High Council
spoke on Relief Society work for a short
time. Bishop Tanner spoke of the good
things that had been talked of today. 
	Sister Dixon thanked the people of Gosh-
en for the kindness that had been shown the
visiting brethren and sisters.
	Sister Mary F. Brown made a few closing
remarks. Conference adjourned for three
months, singing “On the mountain tops
appearing,” and benediction by Sister
Emma Jenkins.
