[Column 1]
	Singing—Solo, “Zion stands with hills
surrounded.”
	Preston 3rd ward and Mink Creek reported.
	Sister Susan Grant endorsed what had
been said and spoke on making good re-
cords, mothers reading good books and the
education of our children.
	President L. B. Benson spoke of responsi-
bilities of our teachers.
	Counselors Hannah Mickleson and Lucy
Parkinson each made a few remarks.
	Morning session closed with singing and
prayer.
	A banquet was given between the meet-
ings at which over 800 people were served.
	Afternoon Session. Stake President Geo.
C. Parkinson and other leading brethren
were present.
	After opening exercises President Louisa
B. Benson reported the stake. Two new or-
ganizations, Cherryville and Winder; all
branches in fair condition.
	Sister Susan Grant addressed the confer-
ence on “Qualification for Duties,” being
examples for all, cultivation of faith, and
teaching our children the gospel.
	Piano Solo—Eva Johnson.
	Sister Sylvia L. Jensen read an article
written in memory of Elizabeth Fox by De-
lilah E. Dudley.
	Sister Annie Wells Cannon spoke encour-
aging words to Society workers, and spoke
on temperance; great women who had work-
ed for it—also woman’s franchise, advised
parents to teach their sons and daughters to
be true to themselves and their faith.
	Duet—Dora Geddes and Pearl Eames.
	Recitation, “Be merciful”—a member of
Weston Society.
	President Parkinson commented on the
success of the banquet. Spoke of the power
of the mother in molding character. Advised
the husbands and fathers to give their wives
their tenderest thoughts.
	A vote of thanks was given to the various
banquet committees.
	Singing by Academy Choir. Benediction
Jos. S. Geddes.
				LINDA N. BENSON,
						Cor. Sec.
		NORTH WEBER STAKE.
	November 12, 1908. The first quarterly
conference of the Relief Society of the North
Weber stake of Zion, convened at the Relief
Society stake house at Ogden.
	The morning session convened at 10:30
a. m, and the following visitors were present.
Sisters Harriet B. Harker and Rebecca
Nibley of the general board, President C. F.
Middleton of the Weber stake and stake
secretary Nellie Becraft of the Ogden stake,
also a full representation of the Relief So-
ciety stake officers of the North Weber stake.
	Stake President Georgina G. Marriott con-
ducted the conference.
	Singing, “Guide us, O, Thou Great Jeho-
vah.” Prayer, President C. F. Middleton.
Singing, “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Stake President Georgina G. Marriott said,
the visiting sisters desired to hear a report
from each ward in the new stake. There are
eleven Relief Society organizations in the
North Weber stake, and all are reported as
doing good work. The attendance at meet-
ings is increasing, the young mothers are
joining, and the lessons, outlined by the
Relief Society stake officers are proving of
great benefit in the wards in bringing the
young married sisters to a realization of the
good, Relief Society work will do for them.
The president also explained the object of

[Column 2]
taking up the subjects of “Prayer” and “The
Sabbath Day.” These subjects were for the
month of November and others would be
outlined every month.
	President C. F. Middleton of the Weber
stake spoke on the subject, “What Relief
Society will do for young mothers.”. He
likened the old Weber stake to a hive of
bees, who had become so numerous, that it
had become necessary to divide them, in
order to get them to do more thorough
work, also spoke of the first organization of
the Relief Society.
	Stake secretary Nellie Becraft of the Ogden
stake felt at home in this conference and
spoke of the good Relief Society would do
for young mothers, and of the great help
and benefit they could be to the older sisters.
	Singing, “Our God, we raise to Thee.”
Benediction by stake counselor Lucy H.
Williams.
	Conference adjourned until 1:30 p. m.
	After the morning session a delicious
luncheon was served, and all were invited
to stay and partake of the same. About
two hundred people sat down to the tables,
spread with an abundance of the bounties
of life.
	The afternoon session convened at 1:30
p. m. and there were present: Sisters Har-
riet B. Harker and Rebecca Nibley of the
general board, President James Wotherspoon
of the North Weber stake, and President
Harriet E. Woodmanse of the first ward
Relief Society of the Weber stake.
	Stake President Georgina G. Marriott pre-
siding.
	Singing, “O, Ye mountains high.” Prayer
by President James Wotherspoon of the
North Weber stake. Singing, “Prayer is the
souls sincere disire.”
	Sister Harriet B. Harker was pleased to
see a mixed congregation of old and young
sisters and spoke on the subjects of “Indivi-
dual Responsibility” and “Training of Chil-
dren,” she also urged the sisters, to try and
bring out all the good we can from any one
with whom we come in contact.
	Sister Mary A. Terry of the Marriott ward
sang “O, blessed was the day.”
	Sister Rebecca Nibley had been pleased
with the reports of the wards at the morning
session; spoke on “The power of prayer” and
of the necessity of living pure lives, and
having pure thoughts and of honoring the
priesthood.
	President James Wotherspoon regretted,
not being able to be at the morning session,
but had been pleased with the spirit of the
conference this afternoon. He spoke of the
good that had already been accomplished,
since the division of the old Weber stake, as
it had called into service a greater number of
the brethren and sisters; he spoke of the
noble work of a teacher, also of the necessity
and power of prayer and hoped the time
would come when the spirit of God would
be in every home in the stake, and that the
influence would be felt throughout the stake;
he also spoke of discouraging working on
the Sabbath, as that day should be a day of
rest, and had been set apart as such by the
Lord.
	President Georgina G. Marriott thanked
the sisters for coming out to conference, and
for the support they had given the stake
officers; she also thanked the sisters of the
“third ward” for the able way, in which
they had served the luncheon.
	Singing, “Doxology.” Benediction by
Sister Elizabeth Marriott.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
		MARY N. BUTLER, Stake Sec.


