[Column 1]
		THE NEW YEAR, 1909.
	The close of the year 1908 was not only
overflowing with general interest in affairs
of the utmost importance in these days of
the greatest achievements, of all kinds im-
aginable, but there was the excitement fol-
lowing the election of a new president of the
United States, which is always interesting;
but when it seemed the year was just mak-
ing its exit, nevermore to return, then there
came the astounding telegraphic news of
the greatest calamity known to the world
for over a century at least. The distressing
disaster of the terrible earthquake in Sicily
and Southern Italy, caused such widespread
consternation, as to awaken the sympathy
and the deepest emotions of the human
heart in tender compassion for the sufferers.
	It is said by those best acquainted with
the history of such world events and with
atmospheric and earth disturbances, that
the recent holocaust in Southern Italy, and
surrounding islands along the coast, now
devastated and destroyed, that there has not
been anything so dreadful and appalling
since 1783. Tidal waves are not so un-
common in some sea coast places, where
there are shoals of islands, but the wide-
spread area of destruction in this alarming
catastrophe, and the thousands of human
lives instantaneously, as it were, swept
away, hurled to destruction, and those not
killed outright, mangled and disabled,
homeless and disconsolate, dependent upon
the mercy and charity of the world, not
knowing what their fate is to be, is too
deplorable to be dwelt, upon and yet, one
whose heart is full of compassion, must
needs contemplate these circumstances
more or less, though far removed from us or
our country; millions of dollars worth of
property utterly destroyed, and those who
survive left penniless, these are solemn
facts; horrors indeed to the sensitive mind,
and although liberal contributions came
from many sources, there is much pain and
misery that cannot be mitigated or allevi-
ated, and though in this land far removed
from these terrible occurrences, yet the
woes of humanity touch tenderly every sen-
sitive living soul, and the prayers of tens of
thousands ascend to heaven in behalf of
those, who suffer from these dread calam-
tics.

	Nevertheless the new year has opened
propitiously, and here in our own famous
land of America, prosperity seems to smile

[Column 2]
upon the people, and except the ills to
which flesh is heir, everywhere, no danger
threatens the peace and tranquility of this
glorious commonwealth.
	There are some problems confronting the
people of this nation but they are only shad-
ows, as it were, compared with the grave
and serious conditions that hang over some
of the most enterprising foreign lands.
	As a people we believe there is safety in
keeping the commandments of God, as re-
vealed in this last dispensation, and rejoice
that the truths revealed from heaven in this
day and age, through the Prophet Joseph
Smith, are spreading throughout the world
of mankind. The gospel is being preached
in many lands, and the honest in heart are
being converted and coming to an under-
standing of its saving principles.
	Therefore as Latter-day Saints we have
great reason to rejoice and be glad, for Zion
will arise and shine, and put on her beautiful
garments, and the glory thereof will eventu-
ally fill the whole earth, as has been fore-
told by prophets and apostles of old, and
of the present dispensation.

	The Lord is at the helm, and will bring
to pass His righteous purposes in the earth,
and the Saints who are in the line of their
duty will be on the alert, watching the signs
of the times and discerning the significance
of momentous events as they transpire from
time to time. It is all a part of the great
drama being enacted in the world of which
we as individual are only an insignificant
part.
	Meantime each one has a chance if ever so
small in the great development of knowl-
edge of God and His purposes; and work to
do that may count for much or little, ac-
cording to the diligence and devotion of the
doers; and the light and intelligence brought
to bear upon the object to be attained.
	One cannot be at ease in Zion, is an old
saying, for the work is pressing, and it re-
quires the utmost zeal and capacity of the
individual effort and endeavor to accom-
plish the designs of the Almighty in over-
coming evil, and establishing truth and
righteousness in the earth.
	In this greatest dispensation, when all
former dispensations are to be merged into
one, women have an important part, and
one that will require greatness of soul and
magnanimity of purpose beyond that to
which they have as yet attained; although
many grand and noble ones have laid the
foundation for those who are now engaged in
the far-reaching undertakings that are being
developed, but those who are coming for-
ward will yet see how vast the increase will
be; surely “the” harvest is great and the
reapers are few.
	The work for the living and the dead, in
the temples already built is marvelous, but
when more temples are built there will be
need of such an army of women workers as
well as men that one looking forward can
scarce conceive of its magnitude.
	Are our young women preparing them-
selves for this mighty undertaking? Are
they appreciating the fact that they are
heirs to all these privileges and blessings?
This is an endless theme to dwell upon, and
reaches far into the past and none living
can satisfactorily grasp its future, indeed it
is not given to man to know all that there is
in store, but the Lord reveals to His proph-
ets here a little and there a little.

[Column 3]
	In connection with the foregoing,we espec-
ially, recommend the work recently taken
hold of in a way to open up more and greater
interest in the work for the dead in estab-
lishing a Genealogical Society in the Church.
We believe this will lead up to greater ad-
vancement in Temple work and awaken a
stronger conviction of its necessity in the
minds of the youth of Zion, who have not
all been awakened to its vast and far-
reaching importance.


