[Column 1]
			LAVENDER.
		BY ETHEL WEBLING.
	As I walk along a crowded street with the
sun reflected and thrown up from the pave-
ment the dust glittering and dancing in the
light; an added warmth and fragrance steals
around me like a cloud of white mist and
changes again into pale purple breaking into
softest green. Then spikes of summer bloom
rise up and the murmurous sound of bees
and the heat and fragrance of incense fills
the air.
	I pass through the door of an old house
and into a room where on a big chest rests
a black and gold lacquered tray filled with
lavender drying in the sunlight. I see oak
chairs of ample size, dark with age and pol-
ished with use and I notice that the shutters
of the long casement window have in each a
a little hole, cut like a heart, to let the light
through.
	The house dates from the XVIth century,
but the solid oak beams and some of the
stone work had been used in a building two
or three hundred years before. The walls,
upheld by the wood, have a strange music
in them, they vibrate to the voice and foot-
steps on the floor. There is a throbbing
silence in that house, it swells into volumes
of sound of all the immemorial years. The
beams still hold the music of the living oaks
and all the wild birds that nested in the
deep shade of their branches. After the
song of birds and other sounds of nature
there is the whisper and record of all the
human lives that have been discussed in the
great ingle nook. For years the house was
an inn, and how many men as they sat
around the hearth on the big oak settle,
sheltered from the draught and cold were
cheered by the imprisoned sunlight set free
in the flame and glowing embers of the
wood fire.
	The shelf running round the room near
the ceiling, with old lustre ware and pewter
standing on it, like the beams knows no
touch of plane, they were leveled by the ax
alone and the hand that wielded it swung
into the rhythm of nature. The sturdy
knot that marked a new branch spreading
out to the light, the surprise and pleasure of
the uneven line, is still the record of the
great tree’s growth, the builder builded bet-
ter than he knew, receptive to the propor-
tion, the harmony and contrast of the living
tree by whose strength the house still lives
and shelters life.
	The back of the house is like a dream of
summer. There is the red roof with its great
slant and rich color, only broken by the
dormer window and quaint chimnies, the
green painted barrels for rain water, and the
deep well that is known for miles around.
The court yard is half paved with red brick,
half with old flag stones and separated from
the garden by a border of delphiniums,
sweet peas, carnations and pansies. The
heart of the garden is a great pear tree that
in the springtime, with its wealth of white
blossoms, reminds one of snow-capped
mountains.
	All the paths radiate from the pear tree,
one leading to a magic circle where herbs

[Column 2]
grow—sweet thyme, marjoram, rosemary,
rue, callamint, bitter-sweet, and many more
whose virtues were well known in past days
when they were gathered in their proper
mystic hour; another to a gate that opens
on to fairie land—a deep pond bordered by
tall flowering reeds, ever swaying in the wind
where the busy Tits work and play the
whole day long.
	All the paths are laid with flint stones
that in their strange, uneven shapes seem
like the characters of an old rune, and the
strong self-sown seeds spring up between
the stones, for him who reads the rune
aright they burst into a wilderness of flow-
ers.
	A few weeks ago, the rose and the honey-
laden scent of the broad bean blossom filled
the air—in a little while it will be the ripe
fruits of autumn—plums, peaches and
apples—but today the lavender is being cut
and the winds are laden with its perfect
sweetness, the burning incense rises as I
stand in the loveliest garden in Kent—no, it
is a London street, but I see the spikes of
purple flower and hear a girl’s voice cry—
	“Lavender! Penny a bunch! Sweet
lavender!”


