IDEAL.
A DREAM.
	My dear fellow-workers, I fear that a
great many of us do not realize the import-
ance that is attached to Relief Society work.
	The vague idea that it is only an organ-
zation for the older sisters is a profound
mistake, its doors stand open for the girls
of sixteen as well as the sisters of more ma-
ture experience.
	When our beloved prophet opened the
door of benefit for woman, he did not sim-
ply mean the few who were fortunate
enough to be under the sound of his voice
at that time.
	But the knowledge of woman organized was
a legacy given to the whole world of woman-
kind, his words that were delivered by in-
spiration have had their effect not only
smongst us as Latter-day Saints, but their
significance and influence have threaded
their way through the civilized nations of
the earth, politically and religiously. Var-
ous kinds of benevolent societies and clubs
have since that memorable day sprung into
existence and the originators of them know
not why or what instinct has led them on
to action.
	But we who have the spirit of truth burn-
ing in our bosoms know that all these subor-
dinate systems are but flickering footlights
under the blaze of a great institution whose
wheels are moved by the power of revela-
tion.
	Our society here in Randolph is in a
healthy condition, the president is energetic
and alive to her duties, she and her counsel-
ors are as one, love and harmony exists be-
tween every officer and teacher.
	I consider we are blessed above all the
other branches in our stake, as we are in
touch with the stake presidency, their homes
being right here.
	We are occasionally favored with a visit
from our stake president, Sarah Tyson, and
her diligent staff of officers, who are ever
willing to impart unto us words of counsel
and encouragement.
	That we will be judged and rewarded for
what we have done should remain no longer a
a doubt with Relief Society workers. I was
skeptical for a long time in regard to our be-
ing judged from our Relief Society records, but
doubt fled with the wings of night after I
had been convinced through a dream.
	All at once I seemed to be in the com-
pany of a very intelligent and dignified per-
sonage, who walked some distance with
me until we reached an elevated portion of
ground. While standing there viewing the
surrounding country, my companion pointed
to the west. I turned and looked in the
direction he pointed, there before me were
two rows of magnificent trees whose
branches towered to the sky, their beautiful
foliage was splendor itself. A pathway sep-
arated these trees, and the glorious rays of
the sun shone on it, blending harmoniously
with the rich green tone displayed. While


I was admiring the beauties of nature and
enjoying the calm serenity of the atmos-
phere, the venerable and much beloved
Bathsheba W. Smith came walking leisure-
ly up the snow white path. I can vividly
recall her to mind now, as I beheld her in
my dream, with that broad, sweet smile on
her queenly face, as she came nearer and
nearer to the end of the path. Her dress
was perfectly plain, and in her right arm
she clasped firmly three large books, simi-
lar to our Church records; when she reached
the end of the path she turned to the right,
walked a few steps, and reaching a large
brick building she knocked at the door,
which was instantly opened. She walked in,
carrying the records with her. Turning to
the guide I asked if that was her home, he
answered, “Yes.”
	As this dream has impressed me very much
felt a desire to make it known through your
valuable little paper. It comes like a
stream of sunshine every month and its con-
tents are eagerly read by us.
	Dear sisters, may humility be our watch-
word, and obedience to the living oracles of
God here upon the earth, is the desire of your
sister in the Gospel.
