WOMEN OF THE NINETEENTH CENTUTY.

	“New occasions teach new duties;
	Time makes ancient good uncouth
	They must upward still and onward,
	Who would keep abreast of truth.”
							—Lowell.
	The century just passed has been a won-
drous change in the status of woman, and
has seen many rights and privileges secured
to her, which in preceding years were con-
sidered possible by the few only. Women
today enjoy more privileges than ever be-
fore in the world’s history. If we read the
signs of the times aright, we understand to
some extent how this has been accomplished. 
Our Father’s purposes are brought about on
perfectly natural principles. 
	He had declared that light should shine
forth. The way had been prepared to some
extent by such reformers as: Martin Luther,
John Wesley, and many others who had
been moved upon by the Spirit of the Lord. 
The times were ripe for the light to begin to
shine. The Prophet of latter days was born
December 23, 1805. The Church was or-
ganized on the 6th day of April, 1830. The
Relief Society was organized on the 17th
day of March, 1842, by the Prophet Joseph
Smith.
	I can find no record of an organization of wo-
men prior to this time. No woman dared
attempt to enter the professional world. 
Sixty-two years ago Harriet Martineau,
while visiting in America, declared that she
found here but seven occupations for wo-
men; teaching, needlework, taking boarders,
typesetting, employment in cotton mills,
domestic science, and book-binding. Yes,
women were allowed to bind books but not
to write them. 
	Think of George Elliot as she called her-
self, being obliged to take a man’s name in
order to have her writings published. Think
of poor Jane Austen hastily dropping her
sewing over the writing when a guest came
in; that she might not be called ungenteel. 
	It is only forty-nine years since Elizabeth
Blackwell, applying for permission to win a
medical diploma, was refused by a dozen
colleges, one of which added to its refusal
that interesting statement that it would be
unbecoming and immoral to see a woman
instructed in the nature and laws of her or-
ganization. Now, in the United States
alone, there are seven medical colleges for
women, besides the men’s colleges to which
she is admitted. Over seven thousand are
practicing physicians and surgeons, and the
reasons for and against such things are
being forgotten in the light of their actual
worth. 
	And what has brought about these changed
conditions? Latter-day Saints will answer,
“The light and knowledge that comes with
the Gospel dispensation.” Many intelligent
spirits were appointed to come to earth to
illumine the dark places, and to lift the bur-
den of tradition and false doctrine, which so
long has hung like a dense cloud over our
race. And how faithfully many have labored,
with untiring energy and wonderful intelli-
gence to accomplish good for mankind. I
shall not attempt in this article to write of
women of our Church. I shall leave that
for an abler pen than mine. 
	I shall, however, give a very brief sketch
of some ef the prominent women of our na-
tion. We notice that in every case their
birth occurred a short time after that of the
Prophet Joseph Smith’s.
	Prominent among writers and speakers
are:


