[Column 1]
selves none too able to give, it is a literal
instance of ‘‘the poor helping the poor.”
There are 11 wards in the stake, three of
them on the west side of the Jordan river.
These districts during a large part of the
year are very hard to visit, on account of
there being no sidewalks or railroads; but
the women who act as teachers flounder pa-
tiently through the snow and mud in calling
at the different homes on their mission of
comfort and help, and many instances might
be cited where the coming of these unselfish
and generons women has seemed to be in
very deed the visit of ministering angels.
Three times since the organization of the
stake have the wards joined to help families
whose homes had been destroyed by fire,
and in one case the Soiety in one week raised
about $500 towards building a home for a
widow with little children. The stake So-
ciety has a library of fine reference books
which are circulated among the members for
their assistance in the department of moth-
ers’ work and for the education of the women
of the stake along all benevolent and pro-
gressive lines.
	Mrs. Harriet B. Harker is president of the
Salt Lake stake Relief Society, having re-
cently been called to that position, to succeed
Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams, general treasurer
of the board, who resigned the office to which
she was appointed at the organization of the
stake. The work in this stake in charity is
similar, of course, to that in the other parts
of the city, with perhaps this distinction
that more help to the really poor who are
not members of the Church is given here
than elsewhere. This is because the stake
includes districts in the thickly settled parts
where tenement houses and and cheap lodg-
ing places prevail. The teachers’ work in these
districts are very arduous, and their experi-
ences at times are well nigh heartrending,
for here is found the nearest approach to the
slum conditions, and the real poverty of the
big cities, and the relief workers find much
to do and sometimes great difficulty in the
doing. A great missionary work is being
done in this stake, a number of sisters hav-
ing been called to labor among the people
as missionaries, to visit the different homes
and talk of the gospel and its beauties, and
thus to spread the spirit of the work. The
mothers’ department is also most interest-
ing; outlines touching on almost every sub-
ject that would be helpful to the mother in
rearing her family having been prepared and
lectures being given and discussed in special
mothers’ meetings—all of which has led a
large number of young mothers into Relief
Society work. This stake also has a special
department for Book of Mormon study, and
once a month the Society meets for this pur-
pose. Salt Lake is one of the few stake or-
ganizations where meetings are held weekly;
but as the work grows, so grows the necessity
for more time to be devoted to it.
	The Ensign stake Relief Society is presided
over by Mrs. Margaret A. Romney. Here dwell
the wealthier population of Salt Lake City,
but within its boundaries are also included
some poor and thickly settled districts, in
which there is ample opportunity for charit-
able effort and for the disbursement of a
considerable sum from the Relief Society
fund. The organization in this stake has
splendid material for mothers’ department
work, and most interesting lectures are given
in the different wards for the help of the
young home-maker. The sick are visited,
the mourners comforted, and every duty re-
quired of these kind workers in helping to
build up the people spiritually is cheerfully

[Column 2]
and promptly performed. The stake meet-
ings are excellent in spirit and are always
marked by a fine attendance.
	Allusion has here been made to only half
a dozen out of the vast number of organiza-
tions which exist throughout the Church;
but enough has probably been said to show
that the stake president, wherever her
field of labor may be, has full opportunity
for the exercise of originality of thought and
energy of action in meeting the conditions
by which she is surrounded. Surely the du-
ties devolving also upon Relief Society work-
ers are anything but insignificant. The ne-
cessities of the poor, the necessities of the
sick and the afflicted, the necessities of the
erring,and of those that lack understanding,
and the endeavor to implant in their hearts the
testimony of the Spirit of God—to look after
these things is the duty of Relief Society
workers. As to the system of organized
charity which they pursue, nothing could be
more perfect. With a band of women visit-
ing regularly every home in their respective
districts for the express purpose of finding
out the different needs and ministering to
them, there is no chance for the existence of
actual and unrelieved want; and the true
Christian spirit of love and help for one’s
fellow man is the real spirit and watchword
of Relief Society work. It follows, therefore,
that there could be no grander or better
school for women than in the work which
the Society affords. It teaches unselfishness,
pity, mercy, kindness and love—it is an in-
spiration to the soul to progress and learn
all the good in life and then to impart that
good to others. Surely. “Charity never
faileth.”		ANNIE WELLS CANNON.


