KEEP THE SABBATH DAY HOLY.
(Continuation from No. 3, page 24.)
	Then our cattle, have we any right to
make our beasts of burden, minister to our
pleasure, by violating the laws of God upon
his holy day? The Savior told the Pharisees
in his day, that “the Sabbath was made for
man and not man for the Sabbath,” showing
that in cases of extreme necessity we may do
things which at other times would be unlaw-
ful, but in riding out in our carriages upon
the Sabbath day we desecrate the day and
are responsible also for our cattle, who can-
not help themselves.
	I have known people in other churches,
who have been strict observers of the Sab-
bath day, and who have remarked upon our
careless observance of it, and I have been
obliged to say, that no true Latter-day Saint
was thus careless.
	Now I come to what in my opinion is the
underlying cause of the lack of a proper ob-
servance of the Sabbath day, as well as the
cause of many other serious evils, which are
abroad in our midst, and which has been the
cause of the ruin of many of our sons and
fair daughters, viz. too much liberty.
	It is remarked by many people, and espe-
cially those from the old countries that the
freedom from restraint of our children is
appalling!


This no doubt in most instances, is the
result of mistaken kindness on the part of
parents or guardians and on the part of those
who would like to govern their children in
accordance with the requirements of the
gospel, the condition is forced upon them,
by their too careless neighbors, who by their
conduct not only utterly ruin their own off-
spring, but by their contact, precept and ex-
ample and that of their children, bring ruin
upon the sons and daughters of their un-
fortunate friends and neighbors, and it seems
to me that the only remedy is the conversion
of the parents, to the knowledge, of their
strict accountability to which they will be
held in a final judgment day by God our
eternal Father, or as it were, by “laying the
ax on the root of the tree,” and in those who
do realize their position as “moulders of the
minds of men,” insisting in unmistabable
terms, upon strict obedience to parental
authority mildly but firmly administered,
and that parents themselves should look
upon it as a sacred duty to meet together
and partake of the emblems of the broken
body, and spilled blood, of our slain Re-
deemer, our elder brother, who freely gave
his life that we might live, as our Father has
commanded on that holy day. That we may
manifest our faith in his promises, wherein
He promises, that the “fullness of the earth
shall be ours.” For if we keep not the law,
how can we claim the blessing? I feel that
we as members of the Relief Society which
was established by our beloved prophet so
many years ago, for the purpose, as he said,
of not only caring for the poor and the needy,
“but for the saving of souls,” should be not
only exemplars, but reminders, and helpers
to those who are weak, young mothers for
instance, who perhaps stay at home so long
with their young families that it becomes a
habit, and under some circumstances a po-
sitive necessity, with cross babies, and no
mother, sister, or friend to leave them with
if we love our neighbor as ourselves, we will
some times take the place of the overburden-
ed mother, in the care of her children for an
afternoon, or evening and let her go to the
house of prayer, where she may become re-
freshed and her faith strengthened and re-
newed. We who are old in the gospel, sure-
ly need not be afraid if we should miss a
meeting once in awhile, to give an opportun-
ity to another to enjoy the privilege which
we enjoy so constantly that we would lose
the faith, because we should be, “not hear-
ers of the word alone, but doers of it too,”
and should we not have our reward for so
doing, in seeing the renewed interest with
which the tired mother would take up her
labors in her household, and the renewed
determination to live nearer to the Lord?
and as “sacrifice brings forth the blessings
of heaven” so will we receive of the blessings
of the holy spirit, as a reward, for a duty
performed. For do we not desire the salva-
tion of all of our Father’s children? and if
we are not all called to go to the nations of
the earth to preach the gospel, let us not
neglect any opportunity to spread the same
at home, both, by precept and example,
that we may indeed be the children of God,
and receive of the blessings which he has
promised to those who would go to the house
of prayer.
