[Vol9 | August 1922 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Our Retiring Editor]

Our Retiring Editor To suppress, rather than to express, is often the business of an editor. Fame, if it ever comes, will perhaps arise as much from the power of an editor to exercise the first, as from the second. Susa Young Gates can both suppress and express, but excels in the latter. Her fort is in creating, not in polishing thoughts and sentences; in originating, not in smoothing ideas and expressions. As far as the limited number of members of the intermountain community can accord a person literary fame, she has had it smile on her. It has come rather from her ability to do things vigorously than from a more quiet and toilsome work of editing other peoples' efforts in literature. A nature like hers chafes under restraint and longs for original expression. Whether owing to this fact, or that she has in contemplation important original literary ventures, we regret that she has seen fit to resign as editor of the Relief Sociky Magazine, which she has so ably edited since its beginning in 1914-15. Her resignation was accepted June 29, by President Clarissa S. Williams and the Gencral Board of the Relief Society. She was appointed to this editorial position by the late President Joseph F. Smith. She has filled the mission with honor, and made The Magazine a popular publication among the members of the thriving great and growing organization which it represents. Eight years of earnest toil and planning, selecting, directing, proof reading, added to her charming personality expressed editorially, have endeared The Magazine to the many thousands of its readers, who, with us, will regret the parting that has now taken place. The policy she pursued in the choice of matter was always fevorable to womankind. The contents of The Magazine was very properly, mostly for, and by women. Women writers were justly given first place in its pages, and topics of pressing interest to women were given prominent priority. In all her writings, the Church, and the glorious principles and marvelous mission it teaches and stands for, were exalted; and the representatives of the  divine Priesthood were ever respected and upheld. She gave fair encouragement to new and inexperienced contributors, and many were thus emboldened to express their thoughts in writing. Mrs. Susa Young Gates' literary activities have not been confined to the Relief Society Magazine. They have covered a period of many years, her literary work having begun when Dr. John R. Park appointed her associate editor of the first western college paper, The College Lantern. Since then she has written essays, stories, plays, and poetry for the Church magazines, and for the paper which she has edited, for more than fifty years. She founded the Young Woman's Journal in 1889, under the direction of the Y. L. M. I. A., and for eight years was its editor. Many of her early writings were printed in the Deseret News, Juvenile Instructor, and the Woman's Exponent, as well as in the Young Woman's Journal, and appear under the nom de plume, "Homespun." She is the author of a number of books, tthe three principal ones being, Lydia Knight's History, John Stevens' Courtship, per-, haps her finest piece of fiction, and The History of the Y. L. M_I. A., a book of about 500 pages. She is also the author of An Elementary Treatise in Genealogy, and A Surname Book, and other works. Her Journal editorials cover a period of eleven years, and in many respects are among her ablest writings. John Stevens' Courtship was adopted in the M. I. A. Reading course, and is a pioneer story embracing the exacting episodes and love affairs of a Church leader during the Johnston Army period. For many years, in the early days, she was practically the only fiction writer in the Church, and while those early writings may have lacked the finish that it is now her power to give, and that is desirable in present day stories, the thoughts and incidents are vigorous, showing sympathetic insight into human nature, with a keen perception of human needs. They are instructive and entertaining, and many of the preachments made have lingered fresh to this day in the minds of the youthful readers of years ago. The influence of her writings is always for good, encouragement, and helpfulness, and leave a wholesome feeling in the minds of the readers. Among the semi-literary activities of Mrs. Gates may be mentioned that she served for five years as chairman of the Press Committe of the National Woman's Council; and traveled in the interest of suffrage into many foreign lands—London, Copenhagen, Rome—and attended many gatherings in America. She received her early education in the private school of her father, Brigham Young, and this was continued in the Deseret University, now the University of Utah, of which she is an alumnus. She studied also in Brigham Young University and took summer work at Harvard. Besides being the head of the editorial staff of the  College Lantern, she was the official reporter for the Retrenchment Society and for the dedication services of the St. George temple. She is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Brigham Young University, in which capacity she has served for more than thirty years; and in 1906, was appointed a director of the Agricultural College of Utah, which position she occupied for seven years. At present, she is engaged in important genealogical research in which she has always taken active interest. She became a member of the General Board of the Relief Society, May 8, 1911, and prior to that time had acted as a member of the General Board of the YL. M. 1. A. Since 1889. In 1914 she became editor of the Relief Soctety Bulletin, and later editor of _ Relicf Society Magazine, which was first issued, January, 1915. Besides her literary activities, she has devoted herself to her family, and is a firm believer in the statement that her father once made to her that, "If a woman were to become famous throughout the world, and still fail as a wife and mother, she would wake up on the morning of the resurrection and find that she had failed in everything." Sister Gates, therefore, notwithstanding her initiative in literary work and in organization, considers that her devoton as wife and mother is her first religious duty. Her experience, splendid organizing powers, and initiatve in literature, have been freely given to the organizations of the women of the Church and nation, many of whom will regret her immediate retirement from the editorial field and will gladly welcome any new literary venture that she may originate, now that she is free to lead out in original fields of endeavor. We are sure all our readers will join us in wishing her the blessings of the Lord, happiness and success, in any venture or activity she may undertake. —_————— Modern sanitation and community health programs have, in many instances, converted the flyless home ideal into an accom plished fact. Tn some districts and communities, however, judging from the numbers of these swarming germ carriers, the messag* of disease control and warning of the menace and danger of the fly to the public health, has not penetrated the domestic and civic consciousness. Until every community is freed from the danger of the spread of disease by the uncontrolled fly, it is not trite to - revive "swat-the-fly" campaigns and to urge housewives to screen their homes.