[Vol9 | August 1922 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons for October - Lesson I - Theology and Testimon]

Guide Lessons for October LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in October) MIRACLES What Miracles Are: The miracle is an event or operation caused by the interposition of some super-human power. Miracles are supernatural in the sense that in the performing of them the operations of the forces of nature are modified by superhuman intelligence and power to the extent of bringing results that would not have come without this interposition. Miracles are also natural because they are performed in obedience to natural laws. In walking upon the water, Jesus did not suspend the operation of the law of gravity, but he introduced a spiritual force that lifted in opposition to the down pull of gravity. The operation. Was as natural as causing a piece of iron to float by holding a magnet over it. The one was a miracle because the power that adjusted nature was super-human, the other was not a miracle because the power of adjustment was human.. Miracles are usually known as "acts of God", but they may be acts of other beings. A Classification of Miracles. As to quality, miracles are of two kinds, real and apparent. A real miracle is an event in which super-human intelligence or power has actually taken a direct part, as in jthe case of the conception, and the resurrection of Christ, and innumerable lesser events which never could have come about without super-human interposition. An apparent miracle is an event which appears to have in it the interposition of the super-human to the extent of directing and changing the operations of natural forces as in the case of an eclipse of the sun being considered as a special act of the super-human to exhibit displeasure, or the natural breaking forth of a volcano, as related to the immediate consciousness and special will of the super-human. _ Real miracles make for religion and faith, apparent miracles make for superstition.  As to their nature, miracles are either miracles of knowledge or miralcles of power. Miracles of knowledge include dreams, visions, inspirations, whisperings of the Spirit, prophecy, revelation, and seership. Miracles of power include healings, preservation, deliverance and their opposites. Lepers were miraculously made as well as cured; individuals and communities have been miraculously destroyed as well as preserved. The Lord drove Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden to combat with Satan, and delivered them from death through the great miracle of redemption including the greatesht miracle of power ever performed on this earth, the resurrection. As to their source, miracles are either devine or demoniacal. This source distinction in miracles has extensive scriptural recognition. The divinely rejected King of Israel sought the witch of Endor. I Samuel 28. Satan showed miraculous power in the presence of Moses. Pearl of Great Price, Chapter I. Jesus was tauntingly accused of performing demoniacal miracles. Mark 3:22. Joseph Smith was attacked and temporarily overpowered by Satan in the Sacred Grove. Pearl of Great Price. Writings of Joseph Smith, 2:15. Miracle Instruments The oldest miracle instrument of record is the Urim and Thummim, used in both ancient and modern Israel as an instrument for miraculously obtaining knowledge. See Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham, 3:1-4; I Samuel, 28:6; Pearl of Great Price, Writings of Joseph Smith, 2:59. A rod, see Exodus 4:17, the Liahona, see Book of Mormon, I Nephi 16:10, 16, 28, 29: also 18:12, 21. Seer Stone. See Doctrine and Covenants, 130:10. There is no record of Jesus having used any mechanical instrument in performing miracles, the nearest approach to it was in the case where he anointed the blind man's eyes with mud made from spittle and clay. The Objectives or Purpose of Divine Miracles. While each divine miracle has its special purpose, it is evident that there are two general objectives or purposes behind most of them. First, the comfort of the humble; and, second, the humiliation of the haughty. Miracles are more faith-sustaining than faith-producing. They are to be appreciated more than to be sought for. They are to be prized but not paraded or set forth in a boastful manner. The humble recital of miraculous events is a most effective method of fixing the faith of the young people. Miraculous events will stand unmeasured reiteration without losing their spiritual effectiveness, if the recitals are accompanied by the Spirit of the Lord.  It is marvelous how multitudes will respond without tiring at the retold story of the Lord's interposition in behalf of his people, and what is true with the community is true of the family in this respect. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. In what respect is a miracle super-natural, and from what point of view is every miracle perfectly natural? Name six kinds of miracles considered in this lesson. Judging from the reported effects of using it, to which of the two sources of miracles does the planchette belong? 4. In the miracle contest between Aaron and the magicians of Egypt, what lesson was plainly taught? Exodus 7:8-12. 5. What valuable lesson is to be learned concerning miracles by a study of the conversation between Christ and Satan? Matt. 4:3-10. 6. Discuss this proposition: The sacredness of miracles suggests that we be willing to put our whole selves into doing a thing before we can consistently desire divine aid?divine interposition in our behalf. BIN LESSON II