[WomansExponent | Vol33 | 1904 | December | Issue: 6 | Title: MUSTY LEAVES, BROWN WITH AGE. | Author: Unknown]

MUSTY LEAVES, BROWN WITH AGE.
		Continued from page 43.
	At Christmas time, three years and more
after Ned’s absence, (as his friends some-
times called him) and the Squire’s home
was filled with Bristol friends, mostly
young folks desirous of seeing a village
Christmas festival, and the Squire had in-
vited as many people from the mills as
could be accommodated The dinner was
to be at five o'clock, but as the day was
foggy, the lamps were lighted early and
gaiety seemed to reign within and without.
The Hilliers and the Cousins were there,
and many other mill hands. Mrs. Wind-
eyer seemed herself again, so old Dr. Gray
said to Fanny to whom of late he had been
devoted; but Fanny and Mrs. Windeyer
both seemed restless and apprehensive.
Dinner was over and toasts were being
given, but there was an awkward pause,
the guests not knowing exactly what
would be fit to propose, for each one pre-
sent realized the absence of the long-lost
son, who would have been the life of the
company, in fact the sorrow on his account
had been general in the community.
	Dr. Gray lifted his glass and was about
to speak. He had made up his mind to
propose a toast for the absent son, when the
boy himself, alive and well, appeared upon
the scene, fresh and blooming, in a mid-
shipman’s costume, his sailor hat with its
long streamers in hand, the golden curls
tossed back, and collar thrown open, dis-
playing a neck bronzed with sun and wind.
All eyes were fixed upon, him, and many a
glass dropped from the hands that held
them, shivering to atoms. Dr. Gray came
to the rescue; not a word, had been spoken, it
was like the dead come back again, the
doctor in a voice trembling with emotion
lifted his glass, “Here’s to the long-lost
lad returned to gladden hearts and home!”
“Speak, Edward, to your mother and fath-
er.’’
	Coming out of the fog and darkness into
the brilliant light, the young man was
dazed and totally unprepared for the scene
he had burst in upon; he came unannounced
to surprise the family, thinking it would be
a small party, though he had noticed the
brilliant lights; but when he saw the vil-
lagers, many whom he had known, he was
bewildered and speechless. He grasped
the situation, however, and graciously
withdrew, followed by his father, mother
and brother. Very little was said, the
company dispersed, Dr. Gray taking matters
in hand, the villagers withdrew, the guests
retired to their sleeping apartments, and
Edward though much in need of rest could
not sleep but sat long by the firelight of the
Christmas logs when all the lamps were
out, talking of his adventures to eager
listeners.
	He had not intended to go to sea, not
then, but he loved to see the ships sail out,
and to talk to the sailors. He was down at
the wharf and had been beguiled into one
of the many drinking places where a crowd
of fine, strong men were taking “grog’’ be-
fore going on board a great whaling vessel
that was anchored close by; he wanted to
see the ship pull out. He drank with one
of the lads, a fine young fellow about his
own age, and then went on board with him,
intending to get ashore again very soon,
but he fell asleep, and when he woke, all
was dark, and he could not recall where he
was or how he came to be in such a strange
place, for he could feel the motion of the


[Column 1]
vessel and turned dizzy when he tried to
rise.
	“What I endured for the first few days
on board that vessel,” he said, “can never 
be told, the remorse of conscience, the 
mortification, the despair; many times I 
prayed to die, I felt I could never meet my
father or mother or any of my former
friends again. We had a fine captain, he
blamed the young man, Tom Wetherell, for
bringing me on board, until I was so sorry
for Tom that I began to be reconciled to
my fate. He mourned for me, too, poor
fellow, and he tried to make up for it in
every way possible. He taught me how to
do my work, and I had the tact and skill
necessary to get on. We were always good
friends, and no matter where we put ashore,
he would entertain me in true hospitable
sailor style. Sailors have good hearts,
though their manners are rough and un-
couth, and their use of the King’s English
is beyond description. There were many
unpleasant experiences for a fellow brought
up tenderly as I had been, but the Captain
noticed this and gave me the easiest places,
and I improved so rapidly, and displayed
such uncommon courage and such an ad-
venturous spirit at times, that he promoted
me when our mate who was not over
strong at the beginning of the voyage was
quite unable to keep on duty, and I can-
not say but my great grandfather, the Ad-
miral, having been in His Majesty’s ser-
vice, had something to do with it.”
	The festivities on the day following
Ned’s return were on the most magnificent
scale ever known in Merton, and the whole
village was in a state of joyful excitement.
The very garb he wore was a great attrac-
tion to the young people. We who live in
this day and in an inland country know
comparatively little of how the sailor cos-
tume fascinates people, especially the young
generation. Scores of girls fell in love with
Edward Windeyer, and he was jovial and
courteous with all; but there were those of
them who were so much enamored of hm
that they watched with envy the attentions
he bestowed on others, and especially on
one, who as they said, “couldn’t compare
with the girls in his own vicinity.” She
was neither beautiful, nor yet attractive to
her own sex (who were for the most part
jealous of her) notwithstanding her plain
appearance, and her poverty yet the young
man admired her, she could converse well,
and her voice was singularly pathetic and
musical; she was graceful in manner and
danced beautifully.
	“Think of Edward Windeyer being en-
gaged to Miss Morley, and he has only met
her three or four times,” said spiteful Hettie
Willis to her two friends, Olive Somers and
Anna Dalley, the trio they were called, all
well to do, of good families, girls of style,
the tip top of society in Merton, in fact they
boasted on occasions that their fathers were
not in Squire Windeyer’s employ, but in
business of their own, and their mothers
had never worked for a living, not even as
governesses; indeed, they were well-con-
nected as the world goes.
	But even so, Edward fell in love at first
sight with Miss Morley. His mother fretted
and fumed, but all to no purpose his fath-
er said nothing, but allowed him to do as
he pleased. Finally when it became ap-
parent that the matter was serious and he
was determined to marry Miss Morley, if
he could persuade her to accept him, (which
was not an easy matter), his mother en-

[Column 2]
deavored to dissuade him from taking such
a course, or even entering into an engage-
ment while so young; and implored his
father to forbid the marriage, declaring she
believed it to be due to the interference of
Fanny Hillier, who, she said, seemed ever
her “evil genius.” At last the mother con-
soled herself with the thought it would
keep him at home, and she took the first
opportunity of inviting the young lady to
the house. After much persuasion and en-
treaty, Miss Morley at last consented to
beard the lioness in her home, so to speak,
for she was in mortal dread of Mrs. Wind-
eyee, having heard so much of her pride
and haughtiness.
	Once within the Windeyer home, Ed-
ward never left his fiance for an hour if he
could avoid it, lest his mother should
frighten her away, for she was as timid as
a bird.
	Mrs. Windeyer looked her over quizzi-
cally and inquired into her pedigree, every
now and then saying, “humph,” or “so he
was your uncle,” or “she was your grand-
mother,” with anything but an approving
tone or manner.
	After the visit of Miss Morley to the
Windeyer’s in their own home, Mrs. Wind-
eyer was still more opposed than before,
and said to her boy, “Ned, the girl has no
sort of family reputation to fall back upon,
she is only from the common people for all
her fine manners and accomplishments. I
wish you would give up this whim, you
will soon tire of those soulful eyes and
dainty ways she is not of good blood, she
has really nothing to recommend her go
back to Bristol and prepare for Oxford un-
der Professor Hadley, he will gladly take
you again, and you may marry among the
best families your father’s wealth would
be an inducement for any girl, and you
surely will regret it if you take this child
without either money or ancestry.”
	Even after all the entreaties it was possi-
ble for his mother to use, Edward persisted
in his determination, and Richard stood by
by him. saying, “Mama, she is lovely, and
sings like an angel. I love her myself
more than Ned does. I wish I could marry
Margaret: no one should hinder me, not
even my father, if I were older and she
would have me.”
	Mrs. Windeyer was puzzled, and in-
quired, “Who told you her name, Rich-
ard?”
	“She told me, and said I could call her
sister; and I will, no matter who dislikes
her besides, she is not so much in love
with Ned, it’s only his imperious manner
and she hopes to win him over to love home
and country life, and leave off sea-faring,
which will make him coarse and rough, and
wean him from those who love him so de-
votedly.”
	“Oh, is this all, Richard? We shall see
what Margaret will do anon. I am not
jealous of my little brother, but no one must
interfere, and mama, I must be the sole
judge in this matter of marriage, and shall
take this little village maiden who is with-
out anything to recommend  her, so you
say, and perhaps not much, save her inno-
cence and purity of heart and soul.”
	The Squire gave his consent willingly to
the marriage, and three months after the
young lady’s visit to Merton they were
joined in wedlock in the little church at
Easton, the town where Margaret Morley’s
parents were born and died. Mrs. Windeyer
would not consent to witness the ceremony,

[Column 3]
though the young couple came home with
the father as soon as the wedding celebra-
tion was over.
	One year of “love’s sweet young dream”
and of intense sorrow for the bride, and
Margaret fled from the home that was un-
bearable to her sensitive nature—fled to
Fanny Hillier for protection and sympathy.
She would not go to her grandma (who had
reared her), to burden her with sorrow
father and mother were both dead, and she
had no brother or sister. Mrs. Windeyer
had made her life unendurable—she had
professed everything and fulfilled nothing.
“Such a child, she can never really be a
wife or a mother,” she had said to Ned
once or twice in the wife’s presence.
	“Let her be,” Mrs. Windeyer said to Ed-
ward; “she’ll come back of her own ac-
cord but if you go after her to coax her,
she’ll be trying the same thing again.”
	Richard pined for her almost as much as
Ned himself, but he was positively forbid-
den to go to see her.
	Squire Windeyer advised Edward to take
a house and make a home of his own near
them, for he was fondly attached to Marga-
ret, and he knew it would be impossible for
him to visit her at the Hillier cottage. The
kind-hearted man said to his son, “Marga-
ret needs sympathy now, and Fanny is
overflowing with tenderness and love for
all humanity; she is the very person to
whom one can go in trouble the only one,
my boy, who never lost faith in you—nev-
er gave you up when you were so long
away from home. She believed in your
fidelity and was sure you would come back
someday.”
	Evidently Mrs. Hillier did not respond to
the generous impulses of her daughter, and
she took occasion to speak her mind rather
freely to Fanny one day soon after young
Mrs. Windeyer had taken refuge at their
home.
	“A pretty scandal this will make, tak-
ing in Edward’s wife. I have no patience
with such nonsense. If she can’t live with
his mother, let her go back to her own.
You’ll be talked about finely for mixing up
in this affair. Mrs. Windeyer will not
spare you, you know that well enough.”
	“Hush, mother, for pity’s sake she will
hear you her ears are so quick to catch the
least sound.”
	It was already too late. Margaret had
heard all, and felt the sting. She knew it
was true that Mrs. Windeyer would not
spare Fanny in the least, though in her
trouble she had not thought of it; but now
she would go before anyone could hinder
her—whither she knew not. Putting on
her hat and cloak, she disguised herself as
much as possible, and though trembling in
every limb and weak from excessive grief,
she ran down the garden walk and was out
upon the high road before anyone knew she
had left the house.
	Fanny went in with a dainty lunch to
tempt her appetite, and found the room
deserted, her wraps gone, then she knew
Margaret must have overheard her mother
and putting on her own things she started
to follow and bring her back if possible.
The search was vain, and she sent a mes-
sage to Edward, but his mother intercepted
it, and night coming on, Fanny, restless with
anxiety, waited, not knowing what to do.
Morning brought no news, and Fanny be-
gan inquiring on her own account. Mr.
Windeyer, however, heard it at the mills,
and severely reprimanded his son for the


[Column 1]
first time in his life. Mrs. Windeyer heard
the scathing rebuke and said placidly, “She
has gone to her grandma, whom she adores
more than anyone in the world.”
	Before she could say any more, Edward
had left the home forever. “I must find
her, dead or alive,” he soliloquized as he
strode off. “Fanny must know I’ve gone,”
and he dashed off a note in pencil as he
walked on, and mailed it before leaving
town.
	Those were not the days of telegrams and
fast trains, but he knew the road to East-
on, yet he questioned her going there. He
changed his mind and went direct to Bris-
tol, and though he knew it not, Margaret
had taken a coach a few miles out of Mer-
ton and gone to that large city. She was
not without money and had with her all her
jewelry.
	Arriving there he began his search, and
after one whole week he found her where
she had taken lodgings. She, was suffering
great mental agony. A doctor had been
called in, who had said immediately, “Send
for her mother,” then noticing the wedding
ring she wore, asked for her husband. Ed-
ward arrived opportunely, and wrote un-
hestitatingly for the one friend he knew he
could depend upon, Fanny Hillier, who
came as fast as horses could travel, Mean-
time a babe had been torn to the pale,
sweet child-mother, and Margaret was
happy now, after all her suffering, and re-
covered speedily. The young husband
was anxious to take his wife and child
home to Merton, but the little mother
would uot be persuaded to go. “No, nev-
er! Take me to my own home, to my
grandma, where I shall be always welcome.”
And her wishes were complied with.
	One cold morning, Edward, Margaret
and baby, accompanied by the faithful
Fanny, set off in a rumbling old stage
coach for the little town of Easton, only a
few miles off, and were put down at Grand-
ma Morley’s door. The old lady’s delight
was positively exhilarating when she saw
the happy party arrive. She had heard
nothing of the troubles and changes of her
darling grandchild, though she had warned
her against marrying Edward, when she
learned he had been at sea. “No more
parting now,” Ned said, when he saw
how delighted Margaret looked; and he
meant it then, but he did not measure his
own strength correctly. He was too near
the sea. Fanny believed in him, so did his
wife, but his resolves were vain. Very
soon a letter came from his mother re-
proaching him with ingratitude. “Richard
is ill, nigh unto death. Leave Margaret
with the nurse and come to us,” his moth-
er wrote. After this letter Edward was
worried and perplexed. His father had
sent money for all expenses so far, but his
wife and child needed delicacies, but he
must work. Another letter came from His
mother, upbraiding him with neglect, and
declared that unless he returned to them
with his wife and child, he should never
have a penny with her consent, and he felt
sure she would carry out the threat.
	“The sea wilt bear me away out of all

[Column 2]
this. I will go aboard a merchantman, a
few months’ voyage around the Mediterra-
nean, and when I return all will have set-
tled down, and I shall have plenty of money
of my own.” This was how he reasoned,
and at last Margaret bravely consented. He
sailed away true-hearted and strong, in-
tending to be gone only for a short voy-
age.
	Fanny Hillier returned home and an-
swered all the numerous questions of
neighbors, but Mrs. Windeyer would not
condescend to inquire even concerning her
own.
	Fanny’s father, however, kept the Squire
posted, giving him full particulars about
his little girl grandchild.
	Richard was very ill, and when the
Squire would sit by him alone, he would
tell him of Edward’s baby and promised
him as soon as he was well he would
take him to see little Ruth. Richard re-
peated to his mama that he was to go and
see the baby, and Mrs. Windeyer made up
her mind to get the little girl for her own.
She had wished for a daughter when Rich-
ard came, and now she saw an opportunity,
she wrote to her Aunt Matilda at Bristol to
come to her, and to try and persuade Ed-
ward’s wife to let her bring the baby with
her for Richard’s sake, knowing how Mar-
garet had loved him, and how self-sacrific-
ing she had been for others, she flattered
herself this would induce the mother to let
the child come to her. Miss Gordon wrent
to Easton and urged Margaret to give the
baby to Mrs. Windeyer, but the little
mother stoutly refused—“Not if I had to
beg my bread from door to door would I
part with my baby.” She made no com-
plaint, indulged in no recriminations, but
Miss Gordon knew by her manner that
her entreaties were vain. Miss Gordon
was annoyed when meeting Mrs.
Morley to find her an old schoolmate,
whom she had lost sight of for many
years, and many pleasing reminiscences
were recalled and the day was spent agree-
ably after all.
	When Annt Matilda arrived at Merton,
Richard was sinking rapidly, but as soon
as she found an opportunity she told her
niece the result of her visit to Margaret,
and added, “Your son’s wife comes of a
fine old Bristol family—her grandmother
was at boarding school with me; one of
the most charming girls, and married a
most brilliant officer; a widow now, with,
a moderate income, and as grand as a duch-
ess in appearance.”
	“But the child, Aunt Matilda! You see
Richard is dying, and I shall be left child-
less.”
	It was hard for Miss Gordon to see her
grief—she loved her niece; but she must
speak plainly now. “You will never have
that child, Nellie, unless the mother should
die. It is selfish to ask. She is alone; her
husband gone, perhaps never to return—
the sea is treacherous; and you have wealth,
position, and a husband to be proud of,
while she is almost alone in the world and
worships the little daughter.”
	It was a trying moment for Aunt Matil-

[Column 3]
da. She had never spoken unkindly to
anyone, but she was a woman of sense and
experience, and she felt Nellie needed to
be told the plain truth, and it might in
her great sorrow soften her heart and cause
her to relent and to repent.
	Concluded in January Number.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 509 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

