[WomansExponent | Vol33 | 1904 | December | Issue: 6 | Title: MUSTY LEAVES, BROWN WITH AGE. | Author: Unknown]

MUSTY LEAVES, BROWN WITH AGE.
CHRISTMAS IN AN ENGLISH VILLAGE.
	It was Christmas eve in a small manu-
facturing villiage in England, early in the
nineteenth century, and preparations for
the usual gay festivities were going forward;
young men and women were arranging the
mistletoe and holly in the prosperous homes
of the working people; and in many of the
cottages beer had been brewed by the prud-
ent house-wives who took care “the mas-
ter” should drink his good ale at home in-
stead of joining in a carouse at the village
inn. Everywhere it was plain to be seen
that the yearly Christmas festival was
drawing nigh. The one little church, ivy-
covered outside, was profusely decorated
within, and the choristers, dressed for the
occasion, were wending their way to begin
the sublime choruses.
	Not far from the church, in the most
pretentious house the village could boast,
there was great anxiety, bustle and confu-
sion. The doctor’s gig stood by the gate-
way, and the cottagers looked anxiously
about and around, and inquired of each
other whether there was any word from
Mrs. Windeyer, for the village folks were
all “agate” to hear the news, and each
one wanted to be first to tell “the glad tid-
ings,” if such it should be. “The master,”
as he was called by them all, was a prime
favorite, he had been born among them, as
they often said to each other,and there were
no doubts in their minds as to the doctor’s
prolonged stay at the “Squire’s house.”
	The evening grew late, and still no word
came. Indeed there seemed almost a
hush to brood over the homes of the neigh-
borhood; and the women, especially the
mothers, waited in almost breathless sil-
ence for the wheels of the doctor’s gig.
The doors were shut, for it was bitter cold,
and there was keen, sharp frost in the air;
music from the church rang out on the still
night, clear and full of tender pathos; and
the children, heeding not the cold, could be
seen in groups going up and down, here
and there singing snatches of Christmas
melodies as they threw from door to door
sprays of holly, calling out, “Christmas
box.” Finally all hilarity had ceased, and
quiet was settling down, then the Christ-
mas bells began ringing joyfully, and just
then Nurse Goodman came down the oaken
staircase in her soft slippers, beaming with
pride, though tears were on her cheeks, and
opening the door, of the great dining room
where “the master” sat by the open fire
uneasy and restless, announced ere enter-
ing, “Ye may’n come up now, Maister
Windeyer, as quick as ye like, ye’ve a fine
son born to the tune o’ the Xmas bells,
and he’l be mighty lucky, I’m sure, for he
roared as we could na hear the bells ring.”
	Many a good woman peeped out inquir-
ingly from behind her bedroom curtains as
the doctor’s gig rattled over the frozen
ground on his homeward way long after mid--
night; but the first gray dawn of morning
found the village very wide awake, and
the news that an heir was born to “Maister
Windeyer” on Christmas eve, just as the
bells’ were ringing, flew from house to
house like wildfire; and such a Christmas
they all declared there had never been since
the old “Maister Windeyer’s time.” Christ-
mas baskets laden with good things, were
distributed through the entire village, and
there was feasting and rejoicing and merry-
making the week through, great flagons of

[Column 2]
beer were opened for the men, and bottles
of good wine sent to the women folks.
	The women were not fond of the young
mistress, and they were free to talk of her
to one another, she was not their sort.
“Young Maister should have wed one of
the girls from hereabouts,” said Mrs. Hil-
lier to her neighbor, Janet Cousins (after
her first visit to see the baby) “and not gone
off to Bristol for a stuck up young woman;
I doubt me she’ll put fine notions into the
lad’s head when he grows up; he’ll not be
fit to take Maister’s place if he takes after
his mother, who’d listen to the likes o’ her,
I wonder?”
	“Now don’t be prophesyin’ evil of the
lad, he’s to be christened soon,” said Mrs.
Cousins, “and Lizzie tells me the boy’s robe
is two yards and a half long, of the finest
cambric muslin, and the lace is old Vene-
tian, and his head is so thick covered with
golden curls that Mrs. Windeyer told the
nurse he need’nt wear caps, (though they’re
all the finest lace) but Nurse Goodman
wouldn’t hear to it, and our Lizzie says as
how Mrs. Windeyer made herself sick a
cryin’ and frettin’ about the caps.”
	Lizzie was Mrs. Cousins’ daughter and a
sort of lady’s maid to Mrs. Windeyer, and
she never tired of repeating to her mother
what her young mistress said and did, and
Janet, as her mother was always called,
told everything to Mrs. Hillier (with whom
she never agreed about anything, how-
ever) for she had a kind heart and Mrs.
Hillier was envious that the young squire
had not taken to her daughter Fanny, to
whom he paid “great attentions,” as she
repeated over and over again till the whole
village gossiped about it, and Fanny was
so upset she declared “that she went off to
her uncle’s in Derby to be out of hearing,
and so’s nobody should see she was cut up
about the marriage.” The truth was she
went away until the gossip should die out,
for she was a sensible young woman, and
young Windeyer had given her to under-
stand what he had meant by “his atten-
tions” Mrs. Hillier had-talked of so much.
	“Well-a-day, whoever heard the like!”
said Mrs. Cousins to Lizzie, as the girl re-
peated to her mother the scene at the
Squire’s the night before the christening,
on her first visit home afterwards. “Little
you tho’t sittin’ there in the church so
solemn-like, what a fuss our. Mistress had
been making with the young Master the
night before, Nurse Goodman told the
whole thing to me. She wouldn’t think of
he’s even having his father’s name, as if
William wasn’t a grand name, when kings
have borne it, as Master told her, and his
father too before him; but no, she wouldn’t
hear of it, he must be called for his grand-
father, the Admiral, and she had her way
but I do think it is a mighty pretty name,
Edward; and Nurse said too as how the
Squire wanted Fanny Hillier to be the
child’s godmother, and the Mistress flew in-
to a passion directly and she said, “Yes,
I’ve heard of your attentions to that young
woman, and a nice scandal it would cause
if she were to be godmother; no, indeed,
I’ve sent for Aunt Matilda, and she’ll be
here presently; and sure enough, Nurse
said, just then the door bell rang, and be-
fore Mrs. Windeyer had quieted down,
Miss Gordon (Aunt Matilda as she called
her) had her wraps off and was; in the
room, and such a flurry as there was; but
the Squire was as sober as a judge, and
never a word did he say, so she had it all

[Column 3]
her own way, and Master has scarcely
spoken a syllable in the house since.”
	“And to think how fine and pleased we
all were, and wishing them joy like that,”
said Mrs. Hillier, when Janet repeated this
conversation to her, “she to think my Fan-
ny not good enough to be the child’s god-
mother (he’s a regular beauty, they all say)
and I doubt me he’l be as proud as a pea-
cock and Lord it over the workmen when
he steps in his father’s shoes, if he ever
should have that honor,”
	And half the village knew the story be-
fore it was a week old.
	Time went on and the village prospered,
and Mr. Windeyer grew rich with one in-
vention and another at the mills; but his
wife was as haughty as he was amiable,
and quite as much disliked as he as be-
loved. One more son had been born to
them, nine years after the first; but he was
a delicate boy, while Edward was strong
and manly, and a greater favorite than even
his father had been. Fanny Hillier re-
mained single and was Edward’s first teach-
er; and strangely enough, as he grew up, he
clung to her as his ideal, which vexed his
mother greatly, and she contrived by all
means in her power to keep her son away,
which only made matters worse. Fanny
had a younger sister, Caroline, who was a
sort of musical genius, a singer who played
the violin; and Edward would steal away
and spend his evenings there, singing and
playing on the flute to Carrie’s violin, while
the stately Fannie accompanied them on
the spinet.
	“He is only a boy, and will outgrow this 
childish love for girls so much older than
himself,” his father replied when appealed
to. “I have no fears, besides he must be
sent to college, we can well afford it; let
him go away from home, it is high time.”
Mrs. Windeyer had been urging him to
take some positive measures to break off
the intimacy with the people she considered
so far beneath her as the Hilliers.
	Mrs. Windeyer made up her mind Ed-
ward should go at once and set about the
preparations. His father was quite willing
he knew the boy was well advanced in his
studies, a fine scholar, all his teachers said,
but the parents realized he needed some
training and discipline beforehand, and fin.
ally decided he should go to Bristol, his
mother’s native city, and remain there a
year under the tutelage of a learned profes-
sor whom his mother had previously known.
	The boy went away willingly at last,
though he had protested against it and
made more ado about leaving Fanny Hil-
fier than his own father and mother, (of
which fact his mother was in blissful ig-
norance) though his father guessed it from
hints dropped by the elder Hillier, who was
one of the Squire’s trusted overseers at the
mills.
	The first few weeks Edward studied dili-
gently, and Professor Hadley wrote glow-
ing accounts of his young student to the
parents at Merton, but later on he in-
formed them that their boy was passion-
ately fond of the sea, though his lessons
were perfectly learned, he had such a won-
derful memory; but his thoughts seemed
far away, he was absent-minded and wheth-
er waking or dreaming, it was always the
sea, “It is born in the boy, and he can’t
help it,” said his father. “Undoubtedly
you’ve filled his head with nursery tales of
your grandfather, the old Admiral, and
you’ve hung those marine views in every


[Column 1]
room in the house to impress him with the
greatness of your ancestry, and then he
has possibly inherited a taste for that sort of
life; however, I’ll write to Prof. Hadley to-
morrow to hurry him off to Oxford, and
he’ll have something else to do than dream
by the seashore, his companions will cure
him of idle day dreams.”
	“I’m sure, William, you blame me for all
the boys faults. I can’t help my descent
from naval ancestry. It’s a great pity you
hadn’t married the Hillier girl, she is no
doubt keeping herself single for your sake,
it isn’t enough to have won your affection
but she’s tried to win my boy from me to
my sorrow,” said Mrs. Windeyer between
her sobs.
	“This is too serious an accusation to be
passed over silently,” replied the husband,
“never mention Fanny Hillier’s name to
me again, I positively forbid it,” and the
irate husband walked out of the house
without so much as good morning, the first
time since his marriage. His love for Mrs.
Windeyer amounted to devotion that had
never changed through all the misunder-
standings and unpleasant scenes. It was
true he had admired Fanny as a sort of
village sweetheart; but after he met Miss
Ellen Fairfax, he knew that the sentiment
he had cherished for Fanny was not the
love of a lifetime; he had often felt sorry
that Fanny did not marry, but he did not-
know, (as men seldom ever do) that she
could never marry any other man; such is
woman’s constancy when her heart is once
given to her true mate, even though that
love be given unsought. Fanny had never
breathed her secret, it could only be
guessed by the magician’s art, which un-
locks love’s secret cabinet, and whispers
softly to the winds at night-time when only
the birds are listening.
	Mrs. Windeyer fretted the live-long day.
She loved her husband, notwithstanding
her temper, and regretted that they had
parted in anger; but she was proudly am-
bitious for her son, she wanted him to be-
come a man of brilliant attainments, high
in the world’s favor. She cared little for
the affection of the people among whom
she lived, she seldom mingled with them
and though at intervals she gave them out-
door parties, she rarely appeared upon the
scene herself. Her husband felt this very
keenly, for he loved the village people, he
knew they were his true and loyal friends,
seeking his interest, while he in return
looked to the public welfare in which all
had common cause.
	Gradually the lives of the husband and
wife grew apart; there was no serious quar-
rel, she was unbearably sarcastic, and he
took her sharp sayings in dumb silence, his
love had received a fatal wonnd.
	Finally a heavier blow fell upon the
household than even the division of hus-
band and wife, for that might have been
bridged over. Just when the Squire was
planning what change might take place
when Edward came home at vacation, a
letter from the Professor came, bringing the
sad news that his son had dlsappeared; he
wrote “He has taken nothing with him.
we have had every one of his old haunts
starched, but no trace of him can be found,
we are ourselves deeply afflicted for he has
greatly endeared himself to us, and was
most respectful and affectionate, but though
we mourn, our hearts are much more deep-
ly grieved for yourself and his poor mother.”
	The clerk in the office looked up as he

[Column 2]
heard the sobs of this great strong man,
“his master,” when he read the letter; but
the Squire took no notice, though as he
arose to go he turned and said to the clerk,
“Shut the office at the usual hour, say I
have gone home if any one calls, I shall
not come back today,” and he passed out,
the open letter in his hand.
	“You have had bad news, sir, I am sor-
ry, can I do anything for you? Can I help
you? Shall I call a cab? You look so
broken up,” said the kind-hearted clerk.
	“No, thank you, I will walk, the fresh
air will do me good, besides I can think
better.”
	Yes, he had need to think over the situ-
ation. How could he tell the lad’s mother?
She would swoon, perhaps, he could not
bear to go home, not yet awhile. He
walked away into the fields, he recalled the
sayings of his son’s boyhood, when he would
climb upon his knee; things long forgotten
came back to him, “Papa, I shall go to sea
and be a great captain and have ships of
my own, and build pretty cottages for the
sailors,” and he would sing of the ocean,
the great bounding, tossing, foaming ocean.
Twilight came on while he strolled about
the fields, and when he turned homeward,
the lights were streaming from the cottage
windows. “I must go and tell Nellie our
boy has run away,” he said to himself, as
he hurried on, as one does when bent on a
hateful errand, lest he should not have the
courage if he lingered. Supper was ready
and Nellie and little Richard were waiting
his coming. He knew he could not eat,
but Mrs. Windeyer must have her tea, so
he took a cup, but his hand shook and his
wife noticing his nervous manner asked,
“Are you ill, William?”
	“No, only upset, I. shall be better soon.”
	“Has there been a disturbance at the
mills? The men grow restless towards pay
day, I’ve noticed.”
	“Nothing has gone wrong at the mills,
I’ve had a letter from Bristol about Ed-
ward.”
	“Has he gone away? Tell me the worst,”
said Mrs. Windeyer excitedly.
	“I can’t tell you, I don’t know myself,”
and he handed the letter to his wife.
	But she did not faint, or even weep as
she read on, “This is the old story over
again; he’s gone to sea, undoubtedly, he
knew we would not give our consent, and
so he’s gone without asking. We shall
hear from him soon, when he is far away,
so we cannot bring him back, he will take
no harm, he was born to the music of the
Xmas bells, rather a sea captain than the
owner and overseer of these humdrum-
mills.”
	Mr. Windeyer took Richard in his arms,
for comfort, such a frail child, and he said
“We’ll go upstairs. I must answer this
letter tonight, he must be found.”
	Accordingly the father wrote to the ship-
ping merchants at Bristol for particulars of
the ship’s crew on board the vessels that
had sailed about that time, and also to the
Professor to spare no means to ascertain
whither the boy had gone. Hearing nothing
satisfactory in reply, he set out himself for
Bristol and made diligent search, but all in
vain, no tidings could be obtained.
	Christmas came, but out of respect to the
Squire, the villagers refrained from making
any public demonstration. Never had there
been such a quiet Christmas, so the women
said, and indeed the young man’s fate was
truly lamented, and many a tear fell when

[Column 3]
ever his name was spoken. Even his
mother began to despond as time wore on,
and no news came of her darling boy. She
had been hopeful at first, but as day after
day she watched and waited, she grew pale
and sleepless, and finally so melancholy
that old Dr. Gray advised the seashore,
and her husband consented. “I shall be
nearer if my boy comes back, and more-
likely to hear news of him, and you shall
know immediately, William,” she said to
her husband the morning of her departure.
Aunt Matilda had come to travel with her
as the Squire could not leave his business
just then.
	“I knew how ’twould be,” old Mrs.
Hillier said, “I always said her pride would
have a fall; he’ll never come back, he’s
most likely dead, and that boy Richard
will never live to be a man. She’s punish-
ed hard enough for looking down on them
as made their money for em.”
	“Now, Sarah, that’s very wrong,” said
her husband, “she’s not punished for that,
better folks nor her are chastened. What
does the Bible say, Sarah? Read about Job,
how he was afflicted. Mind don’t go agin
scripture, there’s not a better man livin’
than Willie Windeyer, I’ve known him
since he were a wee lad, and as for Edward,
you can’t say there were any evil in him."
	“No, dad, I don’t say anything agin
Edward, but its the stuck-up Bristol wo-
man, but she’ll suffer for’t, pride must have
a fall, that’s scriptur, ain’t it dad?”
	“Not exactly, Sarah, but don’t rejoice in
anybody’s trouble, its wrong, its cruel, be-
sides you know how Fanny has always
felt about Edward, she’s sure he’ll come
back some day.” 
	“Well, yes, may be, and Carrie will be
married and gone, and she set such store by
him. I don’t see why I should be sorry for
’em, they’ve brung me no end o’ trouble,
what with Fanny bein’ in love with Will as
she’ll never get over it, and Carrie with Ed-
ward, I’m the one as is to be pitied.”
	“Carrie’s love wasn’t very deep I should
think, she’s sweet now on Jim Farley
a’ready, and you talkin’ of her marryin’
soon yourself.”
	“I’m glad if she do marry him and be
done with’t. I don’t want another old
maid in the family, a pinin’ for something
she’ll never git.”
	“Better have old maids than bad hus-
bands for our girls, but I’ve no objection to
Jim Farley, he’s a fine lad and a goodish
family, and we know em for what they are,
they’ll have my consent when they’re
ready.”
	It was hard for Mrs. Hillier to forgive,
she was an honest, upright woman, but
she wasn’t fond of “bettermost people” un
less they were very amiable. As for Ed-
ward, he had never thought of loving
Carrie, she was ten years older; but he
adored her sister Fanny, who was old
enough to be his mother, though of marri-
age the boy had never yet dreamed. 
	Three long years had gone by, and no
news of Edward Windeyer. Of all the
ships that had sailed out of Bristol, most of
them had come back heavy laden and gone
out again, but still his mother hoped on.
She had grown stronger and returned to
Merton, and though a sort of gloom per-
vaded the place at holiday times, yet usually
cheerfulness prevailed, and the Windeyers
were seldom without visitors from Bristol.
		Continued on page 46.


