[Vol29 | January 1942 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Fashions of Yesterday]

Fashions Of Yesterday FASHION notes of the nineteenth century have become of particular interest to Relief Society women in planning for the approaching centennial. The following is a digest of fashion notes of yesterday taken from The American Costume Book by Frances H. Haire: Fashions of the middle nineteenth century. (1840-1870) were many and varied. 'The century started gaily, with skirts measuring from five to eight yards in circumference.
These were worn with a tight-fitted basque which was usually separate from the skirt. The basque buttoned or hooked up the entire front or back with the closing decorated by buttons or braid loops.
Basques usually dipped in front, but were sometimes made to dip to a point in the ~ back.
Sleeves either puffed at the top and ended in a bell-shaped flare, with tight, fitted undersleeves, or they reversed the process and started sleek and close fitting and flared out to a bell-shape finish with undersleeves in the form of a puff secured at the wrist with a tight-fitting band.
Hoops were extensively worn during the first half of the period.
Hats were poke bonnets, either large or small, made of quilted silk, usually of the same material as the dress, or of leghorn straw decorated with plumes, flowers, and ribbons.
Jewelry was very popular.
This was the day of black onyx jewelry pieces, and "sets" consisting of earrings, brooch, and bracelets won popular acclaim.
Jewelry was apt to be massive and heavy, but pleasing to the eye because of its beautiful de- ~ cent "baby French heel." sign.
Cameos were numerous, and the locket whose hinged door opened upon the tintype picture of some beloved face was a_ general favorite.
Shoes were not high heeled; an inch was the proper height, although some party slippers had the heel curved similar to the more reFootwear was usually of black leather except for party use, when silk slippers of light shades were highly prized.
Shawls were very popular for outdoor wear, as were capes and semifitted cloaks with sleeves.
Tiny sunshades or parasols also won favor. IN the latter nineteenth century the small head and shoulder silhouette became the fashion order of the day.
Flares and decorations therefore came below the elbow on all fashionable garments.
Skirts were made longer in the back to serve both as a train and to accommodate the bustle. The fullness of the skirt cascaded over the bustle, leaving the straight front so popular during this period.
Large jet buttons were generously used as decorative features.
Gloves and shoes were snug fitting.
Black kid gloves and black patent leather shoes with cloth tops, either laced or in the newer button style, became ultrafashionable. The hair during this period was dressed away from the ears, making some sort of ear decoration appear necessary.
Earrings and eardrops therefore became popular. Little (Continued on page 73) Page