[Vol29 | January 1942 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science Economic Life]
Social Science Foundations Of Successful Marriage Lesson 6
Economic Aspects Of Family Life (Tuesday, April 28, 1942) Lesson Aim: To show how the foundations for successful marriage might be enlarged and strengthened through successful adjustment in the economic aspects of family life. STUDENTS of the family quite universally recognize the importance of money matters in marital happiness.
Modern life is so permeated by the economic structure in which man lives that the satisfactions and joys which he is able to extract from life cannot help being colored or conditioned by this structure; and since marriage is such an important segment of total life, the success or failure of it also depends to a large degree upon the way in which family members are able to solve their economic problems.
While we certainly don't want to infer that economic problems are all-important or even the most important things to consider, we do want to emphasize their fundamental connection with the problem of successful marriage.
Adequacy of Income Conditions of poverty are altogether too common in this land of opportunity. The National Resources Committee, in its study of American families for the years 1935- 1936, found that about fourteen per cent of these families received a total annual income (including the value of goods produced for home use) of less than $500; twenty-seven per cent received less than $750; forty-two percent, or nearly one-half, received less than $1,000; sixty-five per cent received less than $1,500; and eighty per cent received less than $2,500."
Only about thirteen per cent of the families of the nation receive a yearly income of more than $2,500. It is evident, then, that a great many in this country are living under conditions of severe economic strain; certainly this can be said of about four million families whose annual income is less than $500.
Adequacy of income is one factor in marital success.
Love may partially compensate for poverty, but despite any effect it has in alleviating the strain, there is evidence that long-continued worry over money matters is not conducive to happiness in the home.
Insufficient income, along with feelings of insecurity which often accompany a low economic status, set up psychological tensions in the minds of family 'members ? tensions which make them irritable and quick tempered; tensions which result in conflict. National Resources Committee, Consumer Incomes in the United States, Washington, D. C., 1938. The deep-rooted strain which comes from worry over finance cannot help but result in personality disorganization and perhaps end eventually in open conflict.
Poverty alone is not usually a cause of marriage failure; often men and women are big enough to overcome the handicap and to make their marriages succeed in spite of it; but often, too, the continual worry and strain wears them down until they break.
Inadequate income is a very definite hindrance to successful marriage.
Adequacy of income, however, certainly isn't everything.
Marriages often fail where there is plenty of money. In fact, a surplus of income may be the very reason for marriage breakdown; where money makes people lazy, selfish, and irresponsible, as it often does," it may be the cause of failure, just as may inadequate income. The ideal situation is somewhere between the two extremes.. A modest income, not too low, and yet not too high, has some very definite advantages in that it will usually permit one to avoid the worries and the anxieties that accompany the lower income levels and at the same time to retain the qualities of humility, cooperation, and industry which are so often lost where incomes are on the upper levels. Furthermore, money itself is only a part of the problem; a will to do is the other part.
There are dozens of ways to be happy and to make others happy without a heavy pocketbook.
Everyone needs some money, to be sure?enough for the necessities of life. But beyond that, there is much that each of us can do to compensate for what is lacking in the monetary field. Homes 

 ?JANUARY, 1942 LESSON DEPARTMENT can be beautified; gardens can be planted and cared for; latent talents can be cultivated; entertainments can be improvised; et cetera. 'The trouble today is that too many people feel that money is at the root of all that is worth while.
What is needed is a little more willingness to work and to sacrifice, to do without some of the monetary pleasures, if necessary, in order to reach the deeper joys which lie beyond the reach of money; what is needed is a determination to make marriage successful regardless of income. The amount of income the family enjoys is only one aspect of the economic status of the family. Let us look briefly at other problems of family finance which demand attention.
Control of the Family Purse The family's mode of life is determined to a large extent by the way in which its income is spent; and hence, the problem of who shall control the family purse strings is full of potential and actual conflict. It used to be that the husband was the sole breadwinner, and his authority over the family finance was almost unchallenged. But times have changed; the emancipation of woman has. Not only made her more restless under the economic domination of her husband, but in many cases it has given her a_ separate source of income. Who shall control the family purse, then, is now influenced to a great extent by the source of the family income. The number of married women in gainful employment in this country has been rising rapidly. The 1930 census revealed over three million gainfully employed wives, and it is 65 very likely that the present number is even larger than that. It is not for us to say whether married women should ever seek employment outside the home or not; but what we can say is that her first duty is in the home.
There are undoubtedly a number of justifiable cases of wife employment?cases in which the family income needs to be augmented or in which the wife has a real social contribution to make, and cases where this can be done before the children come, or after they have married and left the home nest, or while they are properly taken care of. But where there is one case that is justifiable, there are likely dozens of cases that are not. Woman's greatest contribution can be made in the home; husband and children need her there. But this is not to say that she should remain financially embarrassed all her life.
Just as there is danger in too much financial independence on the part of the wife, as suggested in the above paragraph, so there is also danger in too much financial dependence.
Both extremes lead to misunderstandings and conflicts within the home; independence forestalls cooperation, while dependence is humiliating and often destructive to initiative. The wife who manages well her home and family performs a service equally as great as the husband who is successful in his occupation, and she should be equally rewarded by having a say in the control of family finances.
There are many methods of controlling the family purse, but we will have space here to mention only three. In the first method, the husband handles all of the money and gives it out to family members upon request, or as he sees fit.
There is little to be said in favor of this method. In the second method, the wife has an allowance.
This has a lot more to be said for it than the first, for it gives the wife some of the freedom and responsibility she deserves, and it usually requires some degree of budgeting. But on the other hand, it also often leads to misunderstandings and conflicts; the wife may somewhat selfishly scrimp on the food she buys in order to have more for her personal share, or the husband may unjustly accuse the wife of poor management. The third method is that of setting up a joint banking account to which husband. And wife have equally free access after the more or less regular and fixed monthly expenses are taken care of.
This system is becoming more common among the young people of today. It avoids the somewhat questionable assumption of the first two methods?the assumption that the husband will spend money more wisely than the wife? and it thereby closely approaches the goal of complete equality in money matters. It has much to be said in its favor, and for those who are responsible enough to make it work, it is probably the most satisfactory arrangement of all; but it calls for moderation, self-restraint, - and mutual confidence. The control of the family purse should be as democratic as the maturity and responsible natures of family members will permit. Husband, wife, and children alike should be given opportunity to develop the qualities of responsible action and mutual trust. The entire family should counsel together on the money matters which concern it.
Wisdom in Buying Another common source of failure in the home is lack of good judgment on what to buy and when to buy it.
Commercial interests have become extremely artful and persistent in techniques of sales pressure, and the family purse is thereby often made to suffer.
Seductive advertising and unethical salesmanship are daily used in the spirit of bigger profits regardless of public good. The public is altogether too gullible; it needs to develop a stronger resistance to sales pressure. But sales resistance is a matter of education. Consumer's education is a crying need of the day. It is the housewife who makes most of the purchases for family consumption; hence, it is she who should be most concerned with developing the power of wisdom in buying. In this age of diets and vitamins, it is particularly important that she inform herself in a manner that will permit wise purchases and healthy family living.
There are a number of ways to do this.
Home economics courses in the schools and ample reading material in the public libraries and on the newsstands make education along this line entirely possible for the woman who is willing to put forth effort.
Organizations such as Consumer's Research and Consumer's Union are also very much worth while.
