[Vol29 | January 1942 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Women and the Church Richards]
There would be such pride engendered by these home-loving people that they would not permit the meetinghouse and the schoolhouse to suffer in comparison with their homes.
Here a little cooperation will bring the desired results. The contribution of a few hours of labor with perhaps a little cash will landscape the meetinghouse and transform it from a bleak and barren structure into a beautiful and inviting edifice nestled among trees, shrubs and lawns. The same may be said of the schoolhouse except that the school authorities are chiefly responsible, and their responsibility for an ill-kept, forbidding and ugly schoolhouse is not so much to the town or community whose civic pride is hurt, as to the children, the boys and girls, who all through their lives will carry the impressions of ugliness which their surroundings inflict upon them. The converse of what I have said is also true; namely, that beautifully landscaped and attractive churches, schools and other public buildings will do much to stimulate better care of homes and all private property. In fact, nothing can be done to stir and encourage the aesthetic sense in any aspect of our surroundings and our living without promoting generally a more beautiful world. WILL turn your attention to another aspect of this subject. 1 am sure that beauty is intimately associated with pure religion. I believe that our Father in Heaven is a God of order and of beauty. I doubt if any rational being ever entertained a concept of God, that is, as a. Personal Being, except in surroundings of beauty and exquisite loveliness. We so envisage heaven. We, as a church, believe and so declare that in the end the earth will be renewed and receive its paradisiacal WOMEN AND THE CHURCH glory.
When this is done it will be beautiful and glorious beyond finite conception.
This being our doctrine, do you think it becoming in God's children to deface the earth while we sojourn here?
Being the stewards and custodians of the resources which are committed to us, have we not an obligation to use them, preserve them, and return them in the best possible condition of which our circumstances will permit? I think upon reflection you will say that we have such an obligation and that it is very definitely our task to make God's footstool as beautiful as we may. For "the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof," and the righteous "and their generations shall inherit the earth from generation to generation forever and forever."
What a delightful abode this good earth could be if we would but make it so! If neighbors all had flower gardens and gossip centered around daffodils, lilacs and petunias, there would be far more kindliness and sympathy in the world.
Even the thorns of roses do not irritate the soul. Need I say more to persuade us that every consideration business, aesthetic and_ religious constrains our people to take the lead in this worthy cause of beautifying the land? I understand that expert advice will be made available in the laying out of grounds, in planting and in other features calculated to teach the objectives of the program.
With this aid, our efforts will be successful if only our interest and our energy are sufficient. A7
What if our great and wise pioneer leader, Brigham Young, should return on the hundreth anniversary of his entrance into this the Salt Lake Valley? How it would please him and thrill his noble soul to find the cities, the towns and villages which he planned so well and strove so diligently and courageously to found, all in the bloom of midsummer, with farms and fields laden with maturing crops, with pastures and hills dotted with flocks and herds, with factories, business blocks, public buildings, schools and churches reflecting the vast development in enterprise, culture and religion which he so earnestly advocated. Then, too, most thrilling of all, if he could find thousands of contented homes, nestled in the shade of myriads of trees growing out of lawns, shrubs and fragrant flowers, all neat and clean, the habitation of an honest, thrifty, God-loving, joyous people and all this in the desert valleys which he first saw, now transformed and beautified by the enterprise and the idealism of the generations that followed him!
Surely the cup of his gratitude would be running over. Why may it not be so?
What more worthy and fitting tribute could we offer to those patient, devoted men and women whose courage, whose intelligence and whose labor have bequeathed to us the priceless heritage we now enjoy? God grant that our love, our gratitude and our veneration may find tangible expression in beauty beauty of life and surroundings.
