[Vol29 | January 1942 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Editorial | Title: Our Centennial]

Vol. 29 JANUARY, 1942 No. 1 EDITORIAL 2
Our Centennial THE year 1942, long awaited as Relief Society centennial year, is now with us. One hundred thousand Relief Society women greet the New Year in readiness for a glorious centennial observance, grateful in their hearts for this Society and their membership in it. For one hundred years this organization has been growing in strength and influence. 'Today we are reaping a rich harvest from the efforts of the past. Divine inspiration, the far-seeing genius of leading women, the wise counsel of men holding the Priesthood of God, the intelligent devotion and tireless efforts of thousands of Relief Society members have given us a Relief Society structure worthy of recognition. The Society today is strong?strong in numbers, strong in faith, strong in courage, strong in its devotion to the ideal of service to God and man. Backed by a century rich in experience, its power of accomplishment is inestimable. To be identified with Relief Society in this its centennial year is a privilege, a blessing, and an opportunity. All of the accumulated strength of one hundred years is ours to benefit from and to direct. The world today is in need of such an organization as Relief Society? not only for its humanitarian ministrations, but for the spirit that emanates from it. The spirit and character of Relief Society are the spirit and character which if allowed to penetrate the earth would dispel hate and eliminate war. What a privilege it is to be associated with such an organization and to aid in maintaining this character and extending this influence! The personal benefits derived from membership in the Society are inestimable. In a. World at war, with its attendant evils, women who are actively identified with Relief Society find it to be a wellspring of strength, a wise director of activities, a tranquilizer of overwrought nerves, and a solvent of despair. They find it a sustaining, guiding, comforting power. We are grateful this new year for the inspiration that brought about our Relief Society membership building program. Thousands of Page 37 

 ?JANUARY, 1942 women have been enlisted as members of the Society during the past four years. 'Their lives will be strengthened by this membership, and they in turn will lend their individual strength to the important work of the organization. As we view Relief Society from the vantage point of its centennial year, we acknowledge its greatness. We recognize its history has been one of struggle, but it has also been one of mastery. As we contemplate the past and consider the accomplishments of this Society and the contributions which the past has made to us today, we feel an indebtedness that can only be repaid by making our contribution a worthy one. The future lies ahead of us? great in its need and great in its promise. If every woman identified with this organization in any way? as member or as officer?would take time this centennial year to count the blessings that accrue to her as an individual from this Society, if she would meditate upon the importance of the work of the Society, if she would see the relationship of her individual contribution to the success of the work as a whole, she would honestly and sincerely resolve to put forth greater effort in the interest of the organization; she would rededicate herself to the promotion of its well-being; criticism, faultfinding, and complaining would give way to appreciation, loyalty, and whole-hearted support. 'Then the present would in no way detract from the past, but would play its part well in helping the Society to go steadily and gloriously forward.