[Vol29 | January 1942 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: The Great Fig Tree Play Cannon]
?JANUARY, 1942 THE GREAT FIG TREE (Mrs.
Hardy comes in.) This is my wife, Mrs. Atwood. Mrs. Hardy (advances and acknowledges the introduction): I'm glad to meet you, Mrs. Atwood, I'm Mrs. Hardy. Sarah: We're glad to get help, Mrs. Hardy. Won't you sit down? Two of our three children are sick, and the other has been exposed. (Thomas goes over to Sarah's left and sits down.) Mrs. Hardy: Yes, Doctor Evans told me. Sarah: He looked you up? Mrs. Hardy: No, I looked him up. I heard you had sickness here. He's my neighbor. He told me how serious it is. Thomas (rises, speaks huskily): How serious is it? Mrs. Hardy (her pleasant expression becomes grave): He said that by the time night comes someone will have to be swabbing out the oldest girl's throat constantly to keep her from choking to death. Thomas (in despair): As you see, my write is ill?not with diphtheria. She's been ailing for months.... I'm afraid she can't go through with this night work. Sarah (desperately): Yes I can, Thomas. I must. Mrs. Hardy (cheerily): We don't want another patient to take care of, do we? Thomas: I'll stay right here and help. Mrs. Hardy (pleasantly): Men are usually poor hands in the sickroom. Is he the exception, Mrs. Atwood? Sarah (smiling wanly): I'm afraid not. Mrs. Hardy (begins to rise as she speaks): They'll be here any time now and put us under quarantine. (Turning to Thomas) You've got a job, haven't you? Thomas: Yes, but the children come first.: Mrs. Hardy: Certainly they do if you could help. But probably you'd be in the way. It's better for you to get out and keep your job. As soon as the doctor fumigates you, or whatever he wants to do, you can go to my house and stay. My husband and boys are going to batch it while I'm here. We've got plenty of room. It isn't far. You can come over and inquire as often as you want. Thomas; That's mighty kind of you, But you can't do this job here alone night and day. Mrs. Hardy: I think maybe I can. I've sat up a lot with the sick at nights and got my sleep in cat naps during the day. But if I can't, if the two younger children get worse, I know where I can get help. Sarah (gratefully): Oh, that's good. Thomas (devoutly): Well, Mrs. Hardy, you came like a good angel. We felt as though we had been abandoned by the Lord....
That was sinful of us. He never forgets those who love Him. Mrs. Hardy (sincerely): You're right, Mr. Atwood. He is a very constant friend.... And He's closest to us when our troubles are worst.... At least that's been my experience. Sarah (almost joyfully): Isn't it good, Thomas, to find a real Christian soul at a time like this? (Turns to Mrs. Hardy): I feel much better now that I know you are a believer. Thomas (devoutly): God knows His faithful ones, and He moves them by His spirit to go where they are needed. (repeating as if in prayer): "The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want." 1 wonder...
Perhaps there's an affinity between souls who have found Jesus and been saved by His grace.
Maybe that is what brought you here to us, Mrs. Hardy, to help us and to comfort us. You came at a moment when the sin of doubt was about to overwhelm us, but the Lord sent you, I truly believe, because He knows we love Him and have been saved by His blood. Mrs. Hardy (slightly non-plussed.
