[Vol29 | January 1942 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Article | Title: Mission True to the]
General  Board  asked  permission  to 
place  the  bell  in  a  tower  as  a  contri- 
bution to  the  Church,  commemor- 
ating the  one  hundredth  anniversary 
of  the  Society  and  honoring  the 
thousands  of  unsung  Relief  Society 
heroines  who  over  this  period  of  one 
hundred  years  have  exhibited  such 
unselfish  service  to  humanity  and 
wonderful  devotion  to  a  cause. 
Without  thought  of  honor  accruing 
to  themselves  or  financial  reward  in 
even  the  smallest  measure.  Relief 
Society  women  have  nursed  the 
sick,  comforted  the  bereaved,  buoyed 
up  the  discouraged  and  disconsolate, 
nourished  the  hungry,  clothed  the 
naked,  and  even  tenderly  prepared 
the  dead  for  burial. 
But  there  is  even  greater  signifi- 
cance attached  to  the  proposed  Re- 
lief Society  memorial.  We  believe 
that  in  the  near  future  thousands  of 
visitors  who  come  to  Temple  Square 
will  pause  before  this  tie  between  the 
past  and  the  present  and,  as  they 
view  this  old  bell  which  has  been  in 
our  midst  longer  than  the  memory 
of  any  living  man,  they  will  be  im- 
pressed as  the  guide  recites  the  early 
history  of  the  Church.  Thus,  this 
priceless  possession  will  continue  to 
play  well  its  part.  And,  since  the 
story  of  our  organization  will  be  in- 
cluded, our  influence  for  good  will 
extend  on  and  on  in  ever-widening 
circles. 
^ 
SNOW 
Dott  J.  Saitoii 
This  white  peace  silencing  the  hills 
Is  to  heal  the  scars  of  parting 
On  mother  hearts  and  mountains 
Until  a  new  spring's  starting.

[Prize-  vi/ifining  Lroems 
sbliza  uioxeii  onow    1 1  iemonal  [Poem   Lyontest 
EVA  WILLES  WANGSGAARD 
iurave,  Lrnvilegea  CJeet 
Eva.  Willes  Wangsgaard 
First  Prize 
When  I  remember  that  a  century 
Has  gone  as  wind-caught  apple  blossoms  go 
Since  Joseph  said,  'To  you  I  turn  the  key. 
From  this  time  forth  intelligence  shall  flow, 
And  womanly,  united  hearts  be  bent 
Toward  charity.    Let  mercy  be  your  shield 
In  bringing  pain  relief,  the  poor  content; 
And  keep  all  doings  in  your  bosoms  sealed." 
I  feel  the  magnitude  of  this  great  plan 
For  human  betterment— sense  growth  and  scope. 
To  know  of  unpaid  legions  serving  man 
Sans  thought  of  birth  or  creed  gives  me  new  hope 
For  this  sad  world  by  force  and  ignorance  rocked— 
Brave,  privileged  feet  on  paths  that  Jesus  walked! 
Page  13

14 
RELIEF   SOCIETY   MAGAZINE— JANUARY,    1942 
VESTA  PIERCE   CRAWFORD 
ZELLA  A.  JOHNSON 
Spacious  (^entur^,  f 5^2 -794 2 
Vesta  Pierce  Ciawioid 
Second  Prize 
Wait  but  a  moment  in  the  sun  of  time 
Before  the  portals  of  the  past  are  furled, 
While  eager  eyes  appraise  thy  girth  of  years— 
O  spacious  century  that  changed  the  world. 
Thy  rhythm  has  been  phrased  to  liberty 
With  an  insistent  echo  like  a  bell 
That  strikes  a  measured  music  in  the  heart, 
With  only  wide  and  lumined  words  to  tell. 
There  is  no  border  to  a  dream— no  end. 
It  was  for  land  beyond  the  silver  dawn 
That  questing  wagons  braved  the  barrier  plain 
And  found  uncharted  space  to  build  upon. 
Thy  reaching  freedom  was  a  voice  so  strong 
It  swept  the  strength  of  racial  bonds  away 
And  gave  the  spirit  greater  latitude 
To  rear  the  structure  of  a  better  day.