[Vol29 | January 1942 | Sequence: 40 | Category: Article | Title: Spacious Century 1842-1942 Vesta Pierce Crawford]
Spacious  (^entur^,  f 5^2 -794 2 
Vesta  Pierce  Ciawioid 
Second  Prize 
Wait  but  a  moment  in  the  sun  of  time 
Before  the  portals  of  the  past  are  furled, 
While  eager  eyes  appraise  thy  girth  of  years— 
O  spacious  century  that  changed  the  world. 
Thy  rhythm  has  been  phrased  to  liberty 
With  an  insistent  echo  like  a  bell 
That  strikes  a  measured  music  in  the  heart, 
With  only  wide  and  lumined  words  to  tell. 
There  is  no  border  to  a  dream— no  end. 
It  was  for  land  beyond  the  silver  dawn 
That  questing  wagons  braved  the  barrier  plain 
And  found  uncharted  space  to  build  upon. 
Thy  reaching  freedom  was  a  voice  so  strong 
It  swept  the  strength  of  racial  bonds  away 
And  gave  the  spirit  greater  latitude 
To  rear  the  structure  of  a  better  day.

PRIZE  WINNING   POEMS  15 
And  yet  the  social  dream— the  great  ideal- 
Could  find  no  gentle  shaping  of  its  goal 
Until  the  hands  of  women  molded  time 
To  give  the  swiftly  changing  world  a  soul! 
O  spacious  century  that  now  must  pass 
And  yield  the  tide  into  another  year, 
Thy  boundaries  are  like  a  heritage — 
A  wider  challenge  on  the  new  frontier. 
Only  faith  can  beckon  to  a  clearer  path, 
And  only  love  can  loom  against  the  night; 
The  shining  ways  of  peace  can  still  be  found 
To  move  our  shadowed  orbit  into  light. 
We  who  wait  tomorrow's  dawn  must  see 
The  law  of  brotherhood  and  liberty! 
  ^   
L^entenmal 
Zelh  A.  Johnson 
Third  Prize 
The  Master  paused,  as  time  rolled  back  the  ages. 
To  choose  a  gift,  a  blessing  for  the  earth. 
He  marked  a  golden  sheet  in  history's  pages: 
'This  shall  record  a  boon  of  greatest  worth. 
For  womankind  the  world  is  dark  and  dreary, 
But  dawning  of  a  brighter  day  appears. 
The  night  shall  end;  this  day  shall  mark  for  women. 
The  opening  of  a  glorious  hundred  years." 
One  hundred  years  of  light  and  hope  and  duty, 
One  hundred  years  of  giving  and  of  love. 
One  hundred  years  of  filling  life  with  beauty. 
One  hundred  years  of  blessing  from  above. 
That  was  the  gift  God  chose  from  all  his  treasures 
To  cheer  the  earth  and  give  it  life  anew; 
The  key  was  turned,  and  blessings  without  measure 
Have  flowed  to  prove  a  prophet's  words  are  true. 
A  hundred  years  He  gave  to  us,  my  sisters; 
But  they  are  gone,  and  now  our  prayer  He  hears. 
"O  Father,  in  thy  mercy,  look  upon  us. 
Help  us  be  worthy  of  our  hundred  years.

\6  ftlLllF  SOCIETY   MAGAZINE— JANUARY,    ml 
Teach  us,  O  God,  the  law  of  love  and  patience, 
The  law  of  faith  and  sorrow  for  our  sin; 
An  understanding  heart  we  crave,  our  Father, 
To  help  the  needy  and  their  friendship  win." 
The  blessing  is  for  all;  we  are  but  chosen 
To  serve  the  world,  to  guide  and  point  the  way. 
Reflect  the  light  which  comes  to  us  from  heaven. 
The  dawning  of  the  great  Millennial  Day. 
Teach  us  the  ''charity  which  never  faileth". 
The  love  which  to  our  Saviour's  heart  endears. 
Our  gratitude  we  offer  for  this  blessing. 
The  opening  of  another  hundred  years. 
Your  Power 
N OTHING  will  sustain  you  more  potently  than  the  power  to  recognize 
in  your  humdrum  routine,  as  perhaps  it  may  be  thought,  the  true 
poetry  of  life—the  poetry  of  the  commonplace,  of  the  ordinary  man,  of 
the  plain  toilworn  woman,  with  their  loves  and  their  joys,  their  sorrows 
and  their  griefs.— Sir  William  Osilei 
The  Praise  and  Properties  of  a  Good  Wife 
CTRENGTH  and  honor  are  her  clothing;  and  she  shall  rejoice  in  time 
to  come. 
She  openeth  her  mouth  with  wisdom;  and  in  her  tongue  is  the  law 
of  kindness. 
She  lookcth  well  to  the  ways  of  her  household;  and  eateth  not  the 
bread  of  idleness.  (Proverbs  31:25-27)— King  Lemuel 
nPHE  path  of  a  good  woman  is  indeed  strewn  with  flowers;  but  they  rise 
behind  her  steps,  not  before  them.— Ruskin 
  ^   
The  Noblest  Life 
'T^HE  noblest  life  is  the  life  that  loves,  that  gives,  that  loses  itself,  that 
overflows,  as  it  were,  irrigates  the  great  fields  of  human  anxiety  and 
toil;  the  warm,  hearty,  social,  helpful  life;  the  life  that  cheers  and  comforts, 
and  sustains  by  its  serenity  and  patience  and  gratitude.— Anon.