[Vol29 | January 1942 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: The Bailey]
She Wilderness Alice Morrey Bailey First Prize ATHRYN CLAYTON kept K her eyes on the gold-colored draperies of the Relief Society room while the class progressed about her, only dimly aware that the subject was "Neighborliness." "My neighbors and me," Sister Meade was saying and Kathryn turned to look at her, a lumpy little woman whose hair was pulled back to an unbeautiful knot on the back of her head "we are just like one big, happy family. If it's joy or sorrow, we share it." Kathryn averted her eyes from the woman, and her mind drew fastidiously from this distasteful doctrine. "When my boy...." Mrs. Meade was saying, but she couldn't go on. After a minute of embarrassing silence she sat down, fumbling for her handkerchief. Everyone knew about her boy a big hulk of a man, with a little boy's mind; silly from Page 17 

  JANUARY, 1942 a fall, some said. He was harmless enough, but Kathryn thought he should have been in an institution long since. "Sister Clayton, how do you feel about neighbors?" said the class leader with uncanny perception.
Kathryn started, but her confusion was only momentary; she got to her feet. "I don't care for neighbors," she said, and was aware of a shocked silence in the classroom. "That is," she amended hastily, "it depends on who you consider neighbors.
Crowded together as houses necessarily are, one can't choose who lives next door." One or two nodded agreement, and the rest sat looking at her uncomprehendingly. "I am a busy woman," she went on. She was, too, with six children, one of them a year-old baby.
Thinking of her baby, Sara Lea, her heart gave a leap of pure joy, so that she forgot her surroundings momentarily. Sara Lea, so deliciously dimpled, her blue eyes like larkspur, her hair like silk a pink and blue and gold baby. "I am a busy woman," she repeated, recalling herself. "I haven't time to gossip over back fences, waste my own time and that of my neighbors." She caught sight of Mrs. Meade's face, pink with chagrin, and remembered suddenly that Mrs.
Meade lived just two doors from her in their fairly new neighborhood. "Now I've done it," she thought. "And I wouldn't hurt anyone's feelings willingly. Perhaps I might have expressed myself better; but, then, they shouldn't have asked me." She thought that maybe she should have kept still and let the class go on, all of one opinion, in sisterly love and kindness. It wasn't as if she wanted to come to Relief Society meeting, but there had been nothing else to do, the way the president, Sister Beckwith, had approached her: "You are the only one in the ward that can do it, Sister Clayton. We need your lovely voice and your training as a chorister. Our music department was a failure last year."
That had been in September; now it was April, and she had done a good job of her little group of "Singing Mothers," now outstanding in the stake, but she still resented the time it took. It wasn't as if she'd rather play bridge or do some other thing, useless, or even wicked. It was just that she loved her home and her family every minute of the routine, the busy mornings, the afternoons at her desk, the evenings with Thomas reading under a spot of light in the living room; the girls playing their quiet games, the boys downstairs in the rumpus room; Sara Lea and fat little Dickie right now at home in dreamless baby sleep. Relief Society had its place in the old days when there was no outlet socially in the days of Nauvoo, in the days of the pioneer wilderness.
