[Vol12 | February 1925 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Notes_from_Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman TEMPLE PARK, CARDSTON, CANADA Alberia Stake. Saturday, July 26, after the monthly stake Priesthood meeting, the Alberta stake Relief Society, under the leadership of President Jane W. Bates, entertained the married people of the various wards of the stake in a literary contest and lawn social in the temple park, Cardston, Alberta. The contest consisted of review questions on the past season's work and was conducted by assistant stake class leader, Talitha Carlson. Much interest was manifested and some very creditable work was done. Three valuable books were awarded as prizes to the following: Lovina Low, Cardston Second ward; Ina Merrill, Hillspring ward; Hilda VanWrinkle, Cardston First ward. Music was furnished by the Merritime String Players from Kansas City, Missouri; Ralph Smalley, Harry Armiton, S. E. Burton, assisted by L. W. Bates. Refreshments followed the program and consisted of sandwiches, pickles, cheese, salads, Boston baked beans, ice cream, and several varieties of cake. Mrs. Mary E. Smith was chairman of the refreshment committee 
 and was assisted in serving by the members of the board. Approximately five hundred people were served, only a part of whom are shown in the picture. Appropriate games were played, conducted by Mrs. Pearl Woolf and Mrs. Dora Jacobs, with everybody participating including the elderly people who entered wholeheartedly into the fun. Following up the work of the health conference of last March, the Alberta stake Relief Society board have distributed some 1,200 pamphlets, "The Fly Evil, its Life History," etc., to every home and have obtained 600 each of the following pamphlets for distribution: "Food for a Child 1 to 2 Years," "2 to 5: Years," and "5 to 7 Years," "Milk as a Whole Food," "Uses of Cream," ''Milk," "Buttermilk," "Cheese," "Skim milk," and "Cottage Cheese." This material was obtained from the government by merely paying the express charges. As a result of this effort the women are doing all in their power to promote better sanitation and health, by putting into practice the instructions they have received, and they are now planning a baby clinic for next year. For the Canadian temple the wards donated last year twenty-seven completed temple suits, and the stake gave $1,531 in Sunday egg money, $500 of which was donated between April and August, 1923. This money was expended for dainty furnishings and useful articles for the temple. Alberta stake, has paid $97. For a loan chest which is fully equipped with sheets, pillow cases, maternity bundles, etc. The wards have all received bundles and have appreciated them, especially in the outlying districts. In the regular work meetings some of the stake officers are assisting the wards by giving demonstrations in cooking, which are very much appreciated and are bringing results. Taylor Stake. The Taylor stake has been making special efforts to create interest in the Relief Society Magazine, and to increase the subscriptions to the Magazine. The stake Magazine agent is working with the local agent, trying: to get all Bee-Hive girls to subscribe for the Relief Society Magazine for their Mother's Christmas present, and where the mother has no daughters belonging to the Bee-Hive, they are asking the sons or husbands to subscribe for it as a Christmas gift to her. It is hoped that this will place the Magazine in nearly every Relief Society mother's home. The stake board gave a prize of a year's subscription to the Magazine to the ward having the nearest 100% officers' and teachers' present at the recent convention. The stake board is offering a prize (the bound volume of the Relief Society Magazine) to the ward getting the nearest 100% visits of district teachers and the using of the teachers' topics. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 91 Taylor stake Relief Society has donated to the Cardston temple seventeen complete suits for working purposes. Each society in the stake, during the year 1924, gathered Sunday. Eggs or their equivalent for a donation to the temple for maintenance purposes. One of the special activities of the year was for the mothers of the Relief Society having grown sons and daughters to attend dances and young people's entertainments. The results have been excellent. The stake activity committee in the spring asked all Relief Society members to plan flower gardens, lawns and trees, and to try to make their homes more beautiful. As a result, the town as well as the prairie homes have been made much more attractive and pleasant. A stake choir was organized in Taylor stake during the year. A list of the singers selected by the local presidents was sent te our stake president, and she sent a letter calling each to the position. The stake has a very efficient choir leader and organist. Each ward in the stake has been asked to have a layette on hand in each society. The stake board has some articles for layettes and are planning to assist each ward by donating some articles wherewith to begin their layettes. Lethbridge Stake. With a view of raising funds for health work, the Relief Society stake board of Lethbridge stake, conceived the idea of vetting out-a cook book. As a result an excellent book was produced containing two hundred fifty original and tested recipes, and it is being sold at 50c a copy. A member of the General Board who has used the book declares it is the best cook book she has ever had. The Relief Society in this stake is cooperating with the club women and the civic authorities in the interest of health with very satisfactory results. Lethbridge stake Relief Society contributed twenty-four complete suits to the Canadian temple, each group of ten members furnishing a suit. At a recent convention, two ward officers were present who had traveled 212 miles, one of them bringing with her a nursing babe. The interest and enthusiasm of these two workers is typical of the spirit of this new and flourishing stake. General Board visitors to Lethbridge stake were entertained at the Dominion Agricultural College, a courtesy which was greatly appreciated. Sf RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Yellowstone Stake. The Yellowstone stake Relief Society annual day was spent at the tabernacle grounds on the afternoon and evening of August 12. The stake presidency, high council, stake boards of the auxiliary associations, bishoprics and their partners, were guests of the Relief Society women of the stake. Community singing, program and games were features of the afternoon. At 6:30 there was a picnic luncheon with ice cream furnished by the stake board. During the luncheon toasts and music were the special features. Tables especially provided for the occasion were profusely decorated with garden flowers. A delightful part of the evening's entertainment was an original sketch produced by Relief Society members of the Wilford ward in appreciation of the stake officers. Ward Relief Society conferences were held in all wards of Yellowstone stake during the summer and fall season. Tintic Stake. On September 1 and 2, the Tintic stake made an excursion to the Salt Lake Temple, which resulted in the following records: work for 247, and $76.75 temple contribution. ORGANIZATIONS AND REORGANIZATIONS Utah-Kolob Stakes On Sunday, November 23, 1924, the Utah stake was divided. The northern portion, consisting of Bonneville, Grand View, Lake View, Manavu, Pioneer, Pleasant View, Provo, (6 wards) Sharon, Timpanogos, and Vineyard wards, will retain the name Utah stake, and the southern portion, composed of Mapleton, Springville (4 wards), Thistle and Soldier Summit wards, will be known as Kolob stake. Mrs. Electa Dixon and her officers were retained in Utah stake and the new officers for Kolob stake are: president, Mrs. Hannah B. Mendenhall; counselors, Mrs. Eva M. Crandall and Mrs. Hazel M. Robertson; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Irene B. Cook. Nebo-Palmyra Stakes Nebo stake was divided on Sunday, November 23, into Nebo and Palmyra stakes. Nebo stake will consist of Benjamin, Payson (3 wards), Spring Lake and Genola wards, and Palmyra will be made up of Lake Shore, Leland, Palmyra, Salem and the four Spanish Fork wards. Mrs. Hepsy Lewis will continue as president of Nebo stake, and the Relief Society officers for Palmyra stake were appointed as follows: president, Mrs. Delila Hughes; counselors, Mrs. Jane Jones and Hattie Wilcox; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Lillie M. Rowe. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 93 North Weber Stake Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott was recently released as president of the Relief Society of North Weber stake and on Sunday, November 8, the stake was reorganized.; Mrs. Marriott had served as president for fifteen years, and she insisted that it was time for some one else to be given the opportunity to take up the work. Mrs. Marriott is a woman of marked ability and rare vision, and being blessed in addition with strength, energy and ambition, she has succeeded in making the North Weber stake Relief Society one of the most active and progressive groups in the whole Church. No task has seemed too great for Mrs. Marriott and the women of her stake. In the councils of the General Board and stake presidents, when new problems have had to be met and oid policies changed and modified to meet growing conditions and needs, this courageous and loyal worker had been ready always to undertake for herself and the women of her stake any extra work or additional task necessary to cover the emergency and to help out the organization as a whole. When, during the war, it was decided that the abolishment of agents' fees and a larger subscription list for the Relief Society Magazine might obviate the necessity of raising the price of the periodical, Mrs. Marriott suggested that stake presidents act personally as agents with the view of enlarging the circulation. This action was finally decided upon, and a few weeks later Mrs. Marriott sent in subscriptions from her stake amounting to 100% of the membership. When Mrs. Marriott became president fifteen years ago, there was no general uniform course of study in the Relief Society. Each stake and in many instances each ward, arranged for its own educational work. Mrs. Marriott almost immediately prepared a uniform course of study for her wards in the form of printed guide lessons, and visited each ward personally to help introduce the work and standardize class instruction.  Mrs. Julia E. Parry was appointed president to succeed Mrs. Marriott, and her long experience in Relief Society work ably fits her for her position. Mrs. Minnie C. Stratford and Mrs. Sarah A. S. Larkin were chosen as counselors, and Mrs. Mary A. Terry was retained as secretary-treasurer. With the exception of one resignation and two new members the board remains as it was. Before. On Saturday, December 20, a testimonial was given by the North Weber stake Relief Society in honor of Mrs. Marriott. Expressions of: appreciation for her work and for the work of her board were the order of the occasion, and there was a presentation of appropriate gifts. Mrs. Marriott was presented with a beautiful ring, Mrs. Julia E. Parry; was given a crystal bowl filled with roses, Mrs. Middleton, a book of poems, and Mrs. 
 Mary A. Terry, two crystal candle sticks. Mrs. Mary A. Geddes, the oldest member of the board, was presented with a book of poems, and the other board members received bouquets. Juab Stake On August 16, 1924, the Juab stake Relief Society was reorganized. Mrs. Unity Chappell, president of the Relief Society, and her board were honorably released, with the love and blessings of the priesthood and every Relief Society woman in the stake. Mrs. Chappell has served faithfully as stake president for eighteen years, and for six years previous to this was a stake board member. During all this time she has given freely of her time and energy in the Relief Society cause, and has done everything within her power to improve and strengthen the work. Juab stake and the General Board are both indebted to her for her long service and for her devotion to the organization and sincere appreciation is forthcoming from the stake and General Board. In honor of Mrs. Chappell and her board the members of the entire Juab stake arranged a program and testimonial at the Armory Hall, at Nephi, October 16. Games arranged by the wards were participated in by the large number present, and everybody contributed to the entertainment. The grand march was led by Mrs. Unity Chappell and Mrs. Melvina Broadhead. Dainty refreshments were served to two hundred and seventy-five members. The new officers appointed are: president, Mrs. Maude Forrest; counselors, Mrs. Itha Parkes and Mrs. Ellen Cole; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Florence H. Chase; chorister, Mrs. Alice Belliston; organist, Mrs. Anna Allred; board members, Mrs. Matilda B. Whitmore, and Mrs. Lillian Cowan. Carbon Stake On account of ill health, Mrs. Isabella Bryner was honorably released as president of the Relief Society of Carbon stake, on September 28, 1924. Mrs. Bryner has worked untiringly in the Relief Society cause and she and her co-workers have endeared themselves to all those with whom and for whom they have served. Their work has been greatly appreciated and it is hoped they will still continue to be active members of the organization. On November 11, the newly appointed stake board gave a testimonial in honor of the retiring officers which consisted of a program, games, and refreshments. A silver thimble was given to each of the guests of honor. The new officers appointed for the stake are: president, Mrs. Estella C. Dalton; counselors, Mrs. Louise Bunnell and Mrs. Sarah Gibbs; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Margaret Marcussen; assistant secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Drucilla Jones Powell. Guide Lessons for April LESSON I (First Week in April) Theology and Testimony PART II?ENOCH A. Some LEADING Events IN His LIFE. 1. His Calling to the Ministry?Enoch had held the Priesthood. Having received it from Adam, and then at the age of sixty-five he received a special call to the ministry and was blessed by the father of the race. At about this time, too, his son Methuselah was leading the race in longevity. A' The call of Enoch, as recorded in the Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses 6:1-36, consisted in a series of marvelous events: (a) The Spirit of God descended out of heaven and remained on Enoch; (b) The Lord made a prophet and missionary out of Enoch; (c) God declares to Enoch the sinful condition of the. People and the penalties in store for the unrepentant; (d) Enoch pleads his unpopularity among the people and his deficiency as a speaker; (e) God gives Enoch a promise of protection, and of eloquence, and endows him with the power to work miracles; (f) The Lord makes Enoch a seer. 2. Enoch's First Missionary Work at Home.?(a) He fearlessly denounces the wickedness of the people. (b) His sermons carried wonderment, fear, and inquiry into the hearts of the populace. (c) His invincible testimony caused the people to flee or fall before him. (d) He declared Adam's belief in Christ, his baptism, and his clear knowledge of the atonement. (e) He prophesies war and degradation in the absence of repentance. (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 7:7, 8.) 3. Enoch's 'Mission Abroad.?(a) The Lord called him to preach to all except the conspirators with Cain. (b) He declares that baptism must be done in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 7:11, 12.) 4. Enoch's Power in Working Miracles?(a) The earth trembled; mountains fled; rivers were turned out of their courses, at his command, for the protection and progress of the converts, and their enemies fled to an island. (Moses 13:15.) 4. The Building of Zion under Enoch's Leadership. (Moses 
 7.)?(a) He established faith to the point of obedience. (b) He brought about union. (c) He kept out unrighteous living. (d) He provided industry for all under the plan' of stewardships. (e) He kept out class distinction. (f) He kept in constant communion with the Lord. (g) He unceasingly provided the people with the word of the Lord, reminding them of the past, encouraging them as to the present, and revealing to them the future. 4. The Completion and Translation of the City of Enoch.? Enoch, the "seventh from Adam," built up a commonwealth with a perfectness akin to that of the completion of the creation. The City of Enoch, the dimensions of which are not known to us, became the abode of the Lord. Its people had been in the world but not of the world. In the midst of wickedness they were good. They were Zion, the "pure in heart." Their city became Zion, the place where God dwells. The conditions of this unparalleled community were beyond the earth, and they were more than terrestrial. Under the law of the eternal fitness of things the city was given a position above the earth. When the Lord said of Zion, "Behold, mine abode forever," did he not indicate that the city built by men, under the direction of the Lord, was accepted as a part of his celestial kingdom? The kingdom where dwell none but those who can enjoy the personal presence of God. The community conditions that make a Zion fit for the personal presence of the Lord are set forth in the following: "And the Lord called his people Zion, because they were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness, and there was no poor among them." The Zion qualities of a community then, are (1) oneness of heart; (2) oneness of mind, or belief; (3) righteousness or right living; (4) community welfare or the absence of want... These four points of consideration seem to have been the basis of the Divine judgment by which the City of Enoch was named Zion. 5. After the City was Translated. Pearl of Great Price, Moses 7:23-69.?(a) He sees the extent of Satan's power on the earth and the chaining of men's minds. (b) He sees angels from heaven working to unchain men's minds. (c) He sees a side of God's nature, unthought of before. The Lord wept in his presence because of the sin-brought suffering of his wayward children. (d) He witnesses in vision the saving of Noah and his family and the replenishing of the earth. (e) He beholds the birth, life-labors, suffering, death, and triumphant resurrection of the Christ, and with him the resurrection of the Saints who had slept. (f) He hears the earth mourn because of its pollution by men. Who can say with certainty that the earth is not intelligent LESSONS FOR APRIL 97 gent? At all events, it is obedient to law. (g) He obtains a promise from the Lord of this day, this day of wide-spread knowledge (Moses 7:62) and a description of the meeting of the Zion above with the Zion beneath. (h) He sees the millennium and the apostacy that follows it, the final victory of the Savior and the everlasting banishment of Satan from the earth. (i) He sees done with the whole earth what he and his people have done with a part of it, made a place of which God could say, "Mine abode forever." B. THE Doctrines PREACHED BY ENOCH. 1. Those of record: free agency, faith, repentance, baptism (by water and the Spirit), resurrection, and eternal judgment. 2. Those in evidence, but not of direct recorded consecration, stewardship responsibility. C. BIOGRAPHICAL SUMMARY. 1. Enoch was the "seventh from Adam." 2. He was ordained a High Priest at the age of twenty-five by Adam. ? 3. He was called to the ministry at the age of sixty-five. 4. He preached the gospel 365 years. 5. He proved the possibility of man's living the celestial law on a terrestrial planet. 6. He was more than three centuries in building the Christ ideal community. 7. He had an intense interest in the welfare of the people of the earth after his translation. 8. He was a prophet, seer, and revelator, with the seership seemingly predominating. 9. He had access to God in his highest place?"Thou hast given me a right to thy throne." 10. Enoch finished the Adamic Dispensation. D. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS,  1. What principle of the gospel did Enoch preach and practice that had never been preached and practiced before him? 2. What does the success of Enoch the seer, as an ideal community builder, say concerning the advancement of the race with God or without God? 3. Wherein is the life of Enoch most valuable to you? (A question for the whole class. ):; 4. Discuss this explanation of equality in the order of Enoch: "Does every man receive an exact equality? No. Why not? Because some men have more ability for managing a stewardship than other men. Some men, perhaps all their lifetimes, have been accustomed to carry on great establishments and know how tv 
 conduct great establishments. Is it to be supposed that such a man would be limited to the same amount of stewardship as the man who has fifty acres of land? It may require twenty or a hundred times as much stewardship to be placed in the hands of such a man, than what is required of other stewards who manage farming only. Does not that make them unequal? No. They are all stewards. The property belongs to the Lord." (Orson Pratt, Journal of Discourses, vol. 16. Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, p. 611.) 5. Wherein were the builders of the City of Enoch ideally idealistic? 6. Discuss: The City of Enoch as the Eternal City, the City of Three Graces! LESSON II (Second Week in April) Work and Business TEACHER'S TOPIC FOR APRIL HOME AND TOWN "CLEAN UP" 1. Cultivate flowers outside the house, and they will cultivate beauty and art within.. 2. There is no other form of spring cleanup that pays such a large dividend as a garden, either vegetable or flower garden. (a) A marvel of charm and color can be produced from a 25c package of mixed flower seeds. 3. If you have an unsightly place at the side of the house, or garage, or chicken coop?a bank of Four O'Clocks (10c worth of seed) will transform it into a thing of beauty. 4, If you cannot afford the shrubs you would like?Caster Beans make gorgeous tropical plants in one year. Have you plenty of shade in your back yard? If not, plant one new tree and one new vine each year and you will be surprised at the result. 6. Never burn fallen leaves; bury them to enrich the soil. 7. Women and children can paint porch floors better than men. Try it. 8. If the steps or fences are in need of repairs have the children mend them; they may not do it as well as a grown up, but it will be improved, and the training is invaluable to the children. LESSONS FOR APRIL 99 9. Decaying vegetables in the cellar weave shrouds for the upper chambers. (a) Whitewashing basement walls is a means of disinfecting. 7 (b) A metal dish of unslacked lime is good to take moisture. 10. Can you do anything to eliminate or diminish the weeds in your neighborhood? Polen of weeds is the cause of hay fever. 11. Progressive citizens keep their houses and town clean, pleasant and attractive. LESSON III (Third Week in April) Literature JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY The recently reported death of Gene Stratton Porter, is another reminder of the fact that out of Indiana has come a very unusual number of prominent writers, in during less than a century of time. Of this group, comprising such eminent names as Lew Wallace, Booth Tarkington and James Whitcomb Riley, Riley holds a popular place, and in some respects a very unique place. James Whitcomb Riley was born in Greenfield, Indiana, October 7, 1853. His father was a well-to-do lawyer. Doubtless the father had an ambition that the son, too, should become: a lawyer, but the son did not care for law. As a young 
 man he worked as a signpainter, wishing all the time, very much, that he might get before the public as an entertainer; a wish that was gratified in very full measure as time went on. As a boy he had taken part in theatricals in his own home town, where his work met with much approval. Riley had written verses, but did not have the courage to admit his authorship, consequently when he published them he did it under the nom de plume, Benjamin F. Johnson, and when he read them from the platform he usually said he had cut them from a newspaper, that a friend had put them into his hand, with the request that he include them in the evening's entertainment. He had read for audiences when he received only $4, and for others when the house receipts would not pay expenses. That was in the beginning; when Mr. Riley discontinued his platform work, he shut the door in the face of a public clamoring for more. It was our good fortune to hear Mr. Riley read before the students of the University of Michigan, in Ann Arbor. We have heard a goodly number of professional readers read Riley's poems since that time, but we have never heard any one read them in a way that at all equalled his own rendition. In this respect he was like Charles Dickens. The British public was carried away with enthusiasm over the way in which Dickens read his own productions. That this admiration of Riley's poems was general is seen from the following incident: The great French actor Coquelin, after hearing Riley read at the Savage Club in London, turned to Henry Irving, the great English actor and said: "Henry, you and I have been studying all these years how to act, but here is a young man out of the west, who knows all we know by nature." 'The biographer telling the story, admits that the remark is an exaggeration, but in doing so, says, "Yet it is proof, if proof were necessary, that the poet was extraordinarily gifted as an actor. Mr. Booth Tarkington's description of Riley is a classic,. So we include it at this point: There he stood, alone upon the stage, a blonde, shortish, whimsical man in evening clothes ?a figure with 'a whole lot of style', and a whole lot of its own style too! He offered a deferential prefatory sentence or so; then suddenly, face and figure attired, seemed to merge completely into those of a person altogether different from the poet, and not Mr. Riley, but a Hoosier farm hand, perhaps, or a thin little girl stood before you." The night we heard him, he read in a very exceptional fashion, "1 Want to Hear the Old Band Play," "Out to Old Aunt Mary's" and, "When the Frost is on the Punkin." These LESSONS FOR APRIL 101 were great favorites of his and were included in very many of his public readings.. As we are on this theme, we may just as well discuss these three poems now as later on. Y Greenfield was the poet's birth place. In 1894 Riley's father had died, and the poet had purchased and restored the homestead at Greenfield, which had been lost by the father soon after the Civil War, through speculation. Everywhere Riley was being sought, and Greenfield wished to contribute its mite to the wide wave of approval; so the poet was given a public reception. It seems that the entire town acted on the reception committee and met him at the station. The entertainment was in the old Masonic Hall. In the midst of Riley's address he said, "I have in mind a poem which found its fundamental principles in this town. Many of you will recall our old band?the old Saxhorn Band. I want you to fancy the speaker is an old resident of Greenfield, who has returned." Then with an artless look at the orchestra, where sat the few remaining members of the old organization he recited the poem with the well-known refrain, "I want to hear the old band play." In this poem, we discover one of the unique features of Riley's work, for he mixes the humorous and the pathetic in such fashion that one is inclined to laugh through his tears, and cry through his laugh. This is done without the slightest offense; in fact there is such harmonious blending of the two that each without the other is lost, or, to put it in other words, the humor deepens the pathos, and the pathos heightens the humor. In Riley's own rendition this effect was preserved in what seemed to us nothing less than a marvelous fashion. In one of Riley's public addresses he said, "There is reminiscent for us all, an old town and country sketch which attempts to picture two barefoot boys, who had an old aunt in the country, whom they used to visit; two brothers one in his declining years, writing the other, who had moved to the far west?wrote:" Wasn't it pleasant, O brother mine, In those old days of the lost sunshine Of youth?when the Saturday chores were through. And we went visiting, "me and you." And the Sunday wood in the kitchen too, Out to Old Aunt Mary's?  "Me and you"?and the morning fair, With dewdrops twinkling everywhere; The scent of the cherry-blossom blown After us, in the roadway lone, 
 Our capering shadows onward thrown? Out to Old Aunt Mary's! It all comes back so clear today! Though I am as bald as you are gray,? Out by the barn-lot and down the lane We patter along in the dust again, As light as the tips of the drops of the rain, Out to Old Aunt Mary's. The few last houses of the town; Then on, up the high creek-bluffs and down; Past the squat toll-gate, with its well-sweep pole; The bridge, and "the old 'baptizin'-hole,' " Out to Old Aunt Mary's. Or, strayed by the glint of the redbird's wings, Or the glitter of song that the bluebird sings, All hushed we feign to strike strange trails, As "big braves" do in Indian tales, Till again our real quest lags and fails? Out to Old Aunt Mary's.? And the woodland echoes with yells of mirth That make old war-whoops of minor worth!? Where such heroes of war as we?? With bows and zrrows of fantasy, Chasing each other from tree to tree Out to Old Aunt Mary's! And then in the dust of the road again; And the teams we met and the countrymen; And the long highway, with sunshine spread As thick as butter on country bread, Our cares behind, and our hearts ahead Out to Old Aunt Mary's.? For only, now, at the road's next bend To the right we could make out the gable-end Of the fine old Huston homestead?not Half a mile from the sacred spot Where dwelt our Saint in her simple cot? Out to Old Aunt Mary's. Why I see her now in the open door. Where the little gourds grew up the sides and o'er The clapboard roof!?And her face?ah, me! Wasn't it good for a boy to see? And wasn't it good for a boy to be Out to Old Aunt Mary's! * * * For, O my brother so far away, This is to tell you?she waits today To welcome us:?Aunt Mary fell Asleep this morning, whispering, "Tell The boys to come" * * * And all is well Out to Old Aunt Mary's. LESSONS FOR APRIL 103 We shall never forget how Riley smacked his lips as he read this poem. One forgot he was a man, and really thought the jam could be seen clinging to his lips as he ate out to Aunt Mary's. When the Frost is on the Punkin" is one of the best Thanksgiving poems that we have. Professor Claire W.. Reid has put this poem to music giving it added charm. It is a most delightful piece of chorus work. Professor Reid has set a group of Riley's poems to music, a fact over which Latter-day Saints have cause to delight. If any of you find it convenient, include one of the Riley poems that Professor Reid has set to music, as a song on your Riley afternoon, it will greatly enrich the program. Two other poems should be mentioned in any discussion of Riley's platform poems, they are "An Old Sweetheart of Mine," and "Good-by, Jim."' Mr. Riley placed them on the program of many of his entertainments and they were always great favorites. Of his rendition of "An Old Sweetheart of Mine," one of his hearers said, that the "Golden Girl," a bright vision of us all, seemed to step out on the stage and lean over his shoulder and kiss him on the sly for the sentiment. Mr. Nat Goodwin said: "I used to recite "Good-bye, Jim,' until I heard Riley do it, then I asked the Lord to forgive me, and never tried it again." Mr. Booth Tarkington said, "Even as the poet sat and talked quietly with a friend these extraordinary impersonations came playing upon the surface of his face and voice; his talk was like quicksilver. He was the only frontrank poet in whom humor was predominent. In Riley's sixty-second year, 1911, after having written many volumes of poetry, recited by the school children all over the land, just as Longfellow's were recited before his time, Mr. Riley was the victim of a paralytic stroke. He really thought that it was the end. Four years later, in his sixty-sixth year he was feeling so much like a boy that it seemed as if he might yet live a goodly number of years. He went as usual to Miami, Florida, for the winter, returning in May to Indianapolis, where he continued his daily rides about the city, well and happy with apparently a number of days of life before him. "Saturday night, July 22, 1916, at ten minutes of eleven, the poet, having retired, asked for a glass of water and turning on his side fell asleep; as gentle as twilight, came the summons from the Silent Land," says Mr. Marcus Dickey. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Mame some books wirtten by Lew Wallace; also some books written by Booth Tarkington. 
 2. Go over the poem. "I Want to Hear the Old Band Play," and point out where pathos and humor are blended to good effect. 3. Riley has often been called the poet of the "common people," which means that he selects subjects that come within the range of common experience. Does this poem "Out to Old Aunt Mary's" support the well known criticism that he is the poet of the masses? 4. In the last stanza of "Out to Old Aunt Mary's," what promise, dear to all Christians, is portrayed in delicate language? Read the stanza over. 5. Prove from the lines, "The frost is on the punkin," that Riley loved nature. 6. Are his descriptions picturesque, that is, does he use language as a medium to paint pictures that we can see? 7. If time will permit, have someone read "An Old Sweetheart of Mine," and "Good-by Jim." There will be a second lesson on Riley. LESSON IV (Fourth Week in April) Social Service HomE. Less CHILDREN The orphan, the abandoned child, and the neglected one, have for many years received some kind of public care. Even in early Greece and Rome, orphans?particularly the children of men who had died for their country?were cherished and educated, to the age of eighteen, by patriotic citizens. The motive was not a humanitarian one, but a measure to conserve a population depleted by war. In the early Christian era, orphan children were boarded out, the church paying worthy widows for their care. Institutions for dependent children were not established until about the close of the second century, and they flourished until the nineteenth century. One common type of institution was the English workhouse; which sheltered all types of helpless and dependent persons ?the sick, the aged, the widows and the homeless children. Dickens' story of Oliver Twist's experiences, in the sordid English workhouse, is an interesting portrayal of conditions existing in institutions at that period. Oliver became the charge of the parish at birth, for his unknown mother died after taking one fond LESSONS FOR APRIL ? 105 look at her new born son. She was a stranger in the village, found lying in the street, and was taken to the workhouse where, next day, her child was born, Oliver fared as did his other unfortunate contemporaries, who were fed "on the smallest possible portion of the weakest possible food." Until he was nine he was "farmed" out at a branch workhouse, and at the end of that period he was considered ready for apprenticeship. He was taken by the town undertaker, and young Oliver's unhappy experiences among the gloomy coffins in the dismal cellar where he slept, gave him courage to run away. His later career among the pickpockets is a fascinating story familiar to most of us. Students of child welfare find much of interest in Dickens' narrative, not only because it reveals the abuses then prevalent in these institutions, but also to measure the advances that have been made during the subsequent century in the state's care of its homeless children. Many changes in attitude have taken place since the day of Oliver Twist, when orphans were only half-fed, half-clothed, unschooled, and in constant fear of a tyrannical taskmaker, and who were considered legitimate subjects for industrial exploitation by the community. In contrast with this picture, it is enlightening to turn to the White House report (see Normal Life, page 51). Which is a set of resolutions adopted by child-welfare authorities in joint conference at the White House in 1909. The principles of child care endorsed by the conference express the present day sentiments of educators, physicians, and social workers, although it is true that a full attainment of these standards has not yet been accomplished. It may be well at this point to consider briefly the kinds of circumstances that bring children under public supervision. The most obvious cause is the death of both parents. Half-orphans, too, often become charges. A widow without adequate income sometimes finds it her only alternative to place her children in a home and to enter industry. A widower frequently finds it equally difficult to have his children properly cared for in the home, and his children find their way to institutions of some kind. The desertion of one of the parents sometimes brings the children under state care. In cases of wanton neglect the state assumes the obligation to protect the child by removing it from the home. Occasionally, a child born out of wedlock is left to public care, and some provision must be made for it. In France and Italy during the eighteenth century, the number of foundlings became enormous. The institutions for foundlings were provided by law, with revolving cribs or "tours" fixed in the walls or doors, so that when the tour was turned outward the mother could place her child in it and retire unseen. The matron was


warned with a bell that an infant was being left, and the crib would then be turned toward the interior and the child be removed. Even until very recent years foundling asylums in the European centers and in some of our own larger cities, have accepted abandoned infants. The empty cradle on the steps, waiting to accept the abandoned child, is a picture that is rapidly disappearing.
The abandonment of children born out of wedlock or under other unfortunate conditions, is now heartily discouraged. It is considered better for both the mother and child to remain together.
No matter what circumstances make a child homeless, the best first step in making a plan for the child's care is to attempt to keep it in its home environment. If there are no parents, the relatives?grandparents, married brothers or sisters, or aunts or uncles?should assume the responsibility of rearing the homeless children. Even though such a responsibility may seem to be somewhat of a burden, it is the duty first of the family to assume the care of its dependent members. There is no question that a child's life is more natural, richer in experience, and infinitely happier among affectionate kinsmen than in an institution, which in its very character is more formal and impersonal.
If there is a surviving parent, there is little reason for justifying the placement of children in institutions. Certainly lack of income on the part of a widow cannot be considered a sufficient reason. A widow's pension, provided by the state, some form of insurance, or an allowance by some church or welfare agency, should be secured in order to keep the home intact.
If, however, it is found that a child cannot be reared by the family, the provision for it should be made by a trained worker who understands how to give proper supervision in planning for its care. It is often desirable to place children in private homes, paying the family something for the service. These boarding homes can give a more natural environment to the child than is possible in an institution. These homes are especially desirable if the foster family is motivated by unselfish purposes. There is a danger, however, if payment is made to the family for the care of the children, that some children will become charges of people who enter such an agreement for purely mercenary reasons, and it is then possible that the children may suffer some neglect. If, however, foster home placement is carefully supervised by the state or some authorized child welfare society, such care may be highly satisfactory.
Institutions, however, have a definite function in a child welfare program. Different departments, or even separate institutions, have been created in some states to meet the needs of different children,?those needing definite medical care, the mentally deficient, the behavior problem, etc. For the homeless normal
LESSONS FOR APRIL 107
child who must spend his days in the public's substitute for a home, many new provisions have been made in recent years. The present ideal, only achieved in a few instances, is a plan known as the "cottage system." Small homelike houses are built instead of large dormitories, and a small selected group is presided over by a house mother?sometimes a mother of one of the children. Duties are assigned to each and the schedule followed is as like a home routine as possible. Other larger institutions that find it impracticable to abandon their dormitories, endeavor to give personal attention and take special interest in the children under their care.
Any institution, whether private or state, should keep careful records, should have adequate medical facilities, and should receive supervision either from the state or from an approved board.
Where there are children who are permanently homeless, it may be advisable to arrange for legal adoption. It is highly important, for the protection of both the child and the adopting parents, that a careful study of the child and the home be made. For the protection of the foster parents, it should be learned if the child is normal mentally and physically. It should also be learned if the parents were normal mentally and if there is any congenital family pathology. The foster home should be studied to insure for the child good physical care, educational opportunities, and religious training. Foster parents should be willing to have their homes visited, for in no other way. Can an agency be sure that no child is suffering neglect or is the victim of exploitation by unscrupulous persons.
In order to correct the abuses and disappointments that result from unsupervised traffic in children, the Utah state legislature, last session, enacted a bill of control. This act provided that adoptions of children may be made only by licensed agencies, and the power of license was placed in the hands of the state board of health.
References: Normal Life, Edward T. Devine, pages 43 to 54. Oliver Twist, Charles Dickens. ~
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Why should relatives assume the care of homeless children?
2. Why should 'placements in foster homes be carefully supervised?
3. Why is a home environment more desirable than that of an institution?
4. Why should adoptions be officially controlled?
5. To what extent are the recommendations of the White House conference enforced in your community?
Pierce's Hominy Au Gratin
Take one can Pierce's Hominy, add one pint milk, one tablespoon flour, salt and pepper, one tablespoon butter; thicken the milk with the flour; pour over Pierce's Hominy in baking dish; grate 1/4 pound cheese over top and bake in oven twenty minutes. One can Pierce's Hominy fried in drippings from Sausage or Breakfast Bacon makes a delicious second vegetable for the hurry-up meal.
Pierce's Hominy boiled in whole milk with a little salt and pepper accompanied with bread and butter sandwiches makes a fine luncheon for children at noon.
Pierce's Hominy Fritters
One egg well beaten; 1/2 tablespoon salt, teacup milk, flour sufficient to make a thin batter; add 1/4 can of Pierce's Hominy. Fry as one would fry ordinary fried cakes. Serve. With Pierce's prepared Syrup.
Further information concerning Pierce's products and recipes can be obtained by writing 20 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City.
Magazine Management will pay 20c per copy for the following Magazines:
February, 1924 March, 1924 April, 1924
Please notify office of the number you have on hand before mailing same to us.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
50c per copy.
A Book of 'Poems "The Beautiful Valley of Utah"' By Mrs. J. Long, When ordering mention Relief Society Magazine. Eureka, Utah, Box 129.
To Our Patrons and Friends
To insure prompt attention to subscriptions and any other business connected with the Relief Society Magazine Manager's office, please address plainly all communications to Room 20, Bishop's Building. A new order has been issued from the Post Office department saying, "That no mail matter will be delivered unless the proper address is given." By complying with Post Office regulations you may be fully assured that your communications will be well taken care of, otherwise where the proper address is not given mail matter will be returned to the sender.