		MA Y WOODRUFF, Sec.

	DIED, in Newton Ward, Cache Co., Utah Territory, on
the 30th of May, 1888, Susan Dermot Barker, wife of John
Henry Barker. She was born May 20, 1843, at South-
hampton, England. She joined the Church in her native-
land, being baptized in 1861, and crossed the sea in the
ship Manchester, and the plains in Captain Henry Miller's
Company in the year 1862. She was married in the year
1862 [--]enry Barker, and was the mother of nine children
and one grandchild, all of whom survive her, and she is the
first to pass behind the veil. She was a member of the
Relief Society; was teacher, secretary, first counselor, and
lastly president, holding the position of president a little
over two years, all of which positions she held with honor
and honesty combined. She was a devoted wife and
mother, and ever faithfnl to the cause of truth. Has resided
in the Tenth Ward, Salt Lake City Paradise, Providence,
Clarkston and Newton, Cache Co., Utah. Was much re-


spected, and was truly known to be honorable and just by
all who knew her, and passed away in the hope of a
glorious resurrection.
		COM.
Deseret News and Logan Journal please copy.

	DIED, in Nephi, Juab County, May 2d, 1888, MaryAnn,
wife of Thomas Pass. She was born January 28, 1812
in Lancashire, England; was baptized by Elder Jame
Hawkins in the year 1840; emigrated with her husband and
children to Utah in 1863, and has been a resident of this
place from that time to the date of her demise. Sister
Pass has been a faithful wife and mother, her devotion to
the Latter-day work was manifest in her daily life. As a
member of our Relief Society, she was faithful to every
duty, and it can truly be said she was beloved by all who
had the pleasure of her acquaintance. Her seat in our
Relief Society meetings was never vacant while her health
would permit her attend; she was richly endowed with
the gifts of the Gospel—tongues, interpretation and
prophecy—which in many cases has been literally fulfilled.
She leaves a husband, seven children, forty-nine grand-
children and five great-grandchildren. May they have
sufficient of the Spirit and power of God to enable them to
follow in her footsteps and emulate her noble example.
