IN THE TWILIGHT.

On a calm, still summer evening,
	When the day had almost sped,
And the sun was nearly setting,
	And spring and youth had fled,
I heard the voice of waters,
	I heard them rippling flow,
Like the wailing notes of sorrow,
	Or the murmurings of woe;
For my soul was sad and weary
	With its load of earthly care,
And the "still small voice" was silenced
	By the wailing of despair.
But while I thus stood musing,
	The sky above grew bright,
And	the moon in all her splendor
	Drove away the clouds of night; 
And	her track, like silver gleaming
	On the brooklet’s dancing crest,
Seemed like an angel speeding 
	To tell of peace and rest; 	
For my life was overshadowed,
	And its future hid from sight,  
As I stood upon the brookside
	In the shade of coming night.
But the twinkling home-light whispered,
	"There is work still to be done,
You must wait and labor bravely,
	For a while the hard race run;"
While the quiet graveyard stretching
	To the brooklet’s other shore.
Seemed the entrance to an haven
	Where the weary work no more;
And the moonlight seemed to promise,
	As it chased the gloom away,
Of a brighter life hereafter,
	In "realms of endless day."
Then my soul was cheered within me,
	For I thought I saw an hand
Waving slow and gently o’er me,
	In the moonbeams on the strand,
And I heard the sound of voices,
	As the waters murmured low, 
Singing hymns of joy and gladness, 
	That made my spirit glow
With a gleam of sunlight gladness,
	That bore my thoughts away
From the sadness that oppressed me,
	In the twilight cold and grey.
			M  A. YOULTON GREENHALGH.
Meadow, May 26, 1888.


[Column 1]
[For the EXPONENT.]
THE WOMEN OF UTAH.
PART II.
PHILANTHROPY.
“The sympathetic revenge, which is con-
demned by clamorous imbecility, is so far
from being a vice, that it is the greatest of all
possible virtues—a virtue which the uncor-
rupted judgment of mankind has in all ages
exalted to the rank of heroism.”
The one great work beyond the home that
has ever been granted to women, the one work
where her kind heart has been allowed full
sway, the loved work of a true woman’s soul—
that of doing good to others—Philanthropy.
It is the great field where women toil and labor,
battle and enjoy without opposition, without
limitation; where, free and unrestrained, her
voice can be raised to defend, her hand ex-
tended to uplift; where she can enter the dens
of infamy uncontaminated and unblamed, and
is an ever welcome guest in the huts of the

[Column 2]
poor and the palaces of the rich. Laboring
in such a field, with such scope, such boundless
freedom, need we wonder that so many women’s
names illuminate the pages of the world’s his-
tory. What an endless task ’twould be to try
to enumerate the names of women who deserve
immortality for their unselfish and kind works.
Our own war of the Rebellion proved that
America might claim hundreds of Florence
Nightingales, and, we would ask, “Is there a
day that ever closes without recording the kind-
nesses of woman, is there in this world a place
where her love for humanity is not hourly
shown?”
	The recent Convention at Washington daily
rehearsed the philanthropies of women; not a
paper there read, but spoke volumes of
woman’s charity and devotion to humane work.
There were Madame Bogelot representing the
Prison Reform Work of St. Lazarre, Paris,
Alice Scatcherd and Margaret Dilke, The
Women’s Liberal League of New York and
New Castle, Mrs. Ormiston Chant, The Women
of Scotland, Margaret Moore, The Women of
Ireland, Ada M. Frederickson, The Danish
Women’s Defense Society, Pundita Ramabai
Sarasvati, The Child widows of India, and
many others from abroad, while our own noble
country-women, Clara Barton, of the Geneva
Cross Society, Frances Willard, of the W. C.
T. U., Laura McNier, of the G. A. R., Ednah
D. Cheney, of The Women’s and Children's
Hospitals of New England, Jennie Croley, of
the Sorosis Society, Amelia S. Quinten, of the
Women’s Nat. Indian Ass’n, Mrs. Warden, of
the Grange, and countless others, related such
pages of relief work daily going on, as have
never before been placed before the world.
What surprise, what wonder, and what gratifica-
tion it all invoked. Among these great women
representing all these International Associa-
tions were four delegates from our own fair
Territory—Utah—and it was her privilege in
this great gathering to have a voice and tell
some of the philalthropic work of her own
women. The fact that Utah’s daughters could
be represented in such a vast and grand con-
vention, shows for itself that our work is no
trifling thing, and great must have been the
surprise when Emily S. Richards read her
report of the Societies of Utah. It was neces-
sarily brief, as only ten minutes were allotted
her, but in that short period a complete descrip-
tion of the organization of the Relief, the
Y. L. M. I. and the Primary Associations, to
gether with their aims and objects, was given.
The power of organization is very well illustra-
ted by the Relief Society, when 22,000 women
are banded together under one organization,
with united aims and desires, the greatest suc-
cess must and does necessarily result. To this
Association is due the advancement of the ma-
jority of the women of Utah, not alone in
philanthropic but in missionary, political, edu-
cational, journalistic, industrial, medical and
art work. Composed entirely of women, the
Relief Society might almost be styled a sym-
pathetic association; not only do they aid the
needy, but in the homes of the rich and poor
alike, wherever sickness, sorrow, death, or
trouble of any kind may be, its aid is sent.
This organization sustains by annual fees a
well regulated hospital, and gives much aid
towards public buildings, sometimes complete-
ly furnishing the interior. Its members
might almost consider themselves ministers,
for their work is very similar. They hold

[Column 3]
regular meetings for the purpose of speaking
upon Gospel subjects, and their missionary
work is quite extensive. Many have performed
long and trying missions on the Sandwich Is-
lands, teaching and working with the native
women and children. Prominent among those
who have gone unprotected by husbands, are
Dr. Elvira S. Barney and Mrs. Mildred Randall.
Many have gone among the Indians, teaching
and speaking with them. There are now some
few branches of the Relief Society of Indian
women, and Primary Associations of Indian
children in the Territory. Our lamented
woman-leader, Eliza R. Snow Smith, and Mrs.
Emmeline B. Wells, visited the Indians in
Thistle Valley, in 1881, and organized these
societies, and a few years later, when visiting
them a second time, they discovered a marked
progress had been made. The women were
quite proud of their needlework, and sent
some of it to the Stake fair of Sanpete. Among
the Indians in Box Elder Co. the work is, per-
haps, more advanced. The Relief and Prim-
ary Societies were there organized before
the Thistle Valley Society, and the Stake
officers frequently visit them to encourage them
towards civilized and industrial habits. A
great amount of home missionary work is ac-
complished by the R. S. women, scarcely a week
passing without some of them traveling into
different counties, organizing, instructing and
encouraging their sisters. The Relief Society
is in its membership wholly Mormon, having
been organized in 1842 at Nauvoo, by Joseph
Smith, and reorganized in Utah, by Brigham
Young, in 1855; its aid is, however, confined
to no class or sect, but is freely given wherever
there is need.
	There are, in Utah, many other guilds or
societies of women for philanthropic purposes,
but scarcely could we deem them so thoroughly
organized, or conducted on so grand a scale
as the Relief Society. Each of the different
churches has such an one, and much aid is
given through them, confined principally, but
not entirely, to their own church members.
The Catholic Sisterhood distribute freely, and
the Mother Superior says, “We give wherever
needed, in whatever way, and neither keep ac-
count or mention it afterward.” They have
built and conduct the beautiful and fine struc-
ture known as St. Mary’s Hospital of the Holy
Cross. This was the first woman’s hospital in
Utah, and is one of the finest in the West.
	The ladies of the Episcopal Church, under
 the name of St. Mark’s and St. Paul’s Ladies’
Guild, do much work for the poor and the en-
couragement of art, expending a large amount
of means for charitable purposes.
	The other sects average about an equal dis-
bursement through their ladies’ societies, each
giving liberally every year. The Hebrew
women also have a benevolent society, and dis-
burse yearly among their own poor.
	There is in Salt Lake an independent aid
society, composed entirely of young women,
which collects from well to-do classes and dis-
tributes wherever they find need. They confine
themselves to no class or place, but wherever
or whenever they happen to see an opportunity
to extend aid they do so, until they have be-
come quite a young army of evangelists.
	The G. A. R. Relief Corps so ably repre-
sented by Laura McNier at Washington, has,
for the past three years had a branch organiza-
tion here, which now has a membership of some
70 ladies. Their work is, of course, principally


[Column 1]

﻿confined to aiding soldiers, sailors and marines,
and their families, or members thereof, who are
indigent, maimed or sick, but, like all other
charitable societies here, bestow charity wher-
ever opportunity offers. During the short life
of this society, it has averaged for helping the
poor, $166.50 annually, and the first quarter of
the present year, 1888, has given $113.50, show-
ing a large increase.
	For some years past a few benovelent ladies
have been trying to provide Salt Lake with an
Orphan's Home, a need which is not yet greatly
felt, but since the project of making it also a
day nursery, where working women's children
are cared for and taught, has been carried out,
it has made more progress, and the Legislature
of 1888 made an appropriation for this purpose.
	Under the sub-heading, philanthropy, let us
not forget to mention The Woman's Industrial
Home, which at present is more of a blot on
our Territory, if not on our country, than any-
thing good. Some ladies persuaded Congress
to make an appropriation for the building of a
home for Mormon women who will renounce
their religious principles. From its beginning
this Home has been nothing but a farce; no
true woman would receive aid from it under
its present conditions and regulations, and in
behalf of the Mormon women let me say, we
have no need of such a place; we do not want
it and we will not enter it. If the appropria-
tion could be used to promote women's indus-
tries in the Territory, as the name implies it
should, it will be gladly received and aided.
	It is woman's delight to do good, it is her
greatest pleasure, and the firmer her religious
convictions are, the greater her good deeds be-
come. As woman is more spiritual, so is she
more charitable. Robert Hall tells us it was
reserved for the religious whose basis is humili-
ty and whose element is devotion, to proclaim
with authority, "Blessed are the merciful, for
they shall obtain mercy."

