SUGGESTIVE THOUGHTS.
“He is idle who might be better employed.”
	It is true wisdom to know just what to do at
the right time. “Aunt Polly” set me to think-
ing, or rather set old thoughts in motion, in her
article on “Fancy Work,” in a recent issue of 
the EXPONENT. I have an eye for the beauti-
ful, and love to see pretty things about as well
as any body, but I think we should indulge in
fancy work about as we would eat a piece of
cake, or a dish of ice cream. There is so much
earnest work to do, so much to learn that is
really necessary to health and happiness—and
we weary both body and brain, expend nervous
vitality upon things that are worse than useless
—because the profit or pleasure does not over-
balance the outlay of time and strength. It
is a nice point to be able to define the time
when spare moments can be profitably spared
for much that we do.
	I often think if young ladies could look into
the depths of their ignorance, and sense how 
poorly equiped they are with a knowledge of
the requirements due their life-work, they
would see fewer spare moments which they
would be willing to devote to fancy work.
Many devotees of the crochet hook, embroidery
needle, and other implements of ornamentation,
deplore their lack of time for self-improvement.
As they approach the holy temple of matri-
mony, their thoughts are not so much upon the
grave duties of the intelligent management of 
home and family, as upon the ornamenting of
the home and the trimming of the wedding
trousseau. Oh, the endless yards of edging,
ric rac, feather-edge, novelty, etc., and the 
tedious hours of stitching tucking and ruffling on
the woman’s enemy, the machine, which many 
girls take pride in doing themselves—till the
wedding morn finds them exhausted in vital
force, nerves prancing around the tightest ten-
sion, the emotions in an overwrought state of
excitement; but pride and vanity are gratified,
and a false and injurious custom smiles grimly
at the sad havoc its tyranny has made.
	Now comes the reaction, pay day is at hand;
the should-be blooming bride is more like a
wilted flower; she has been “so miserable” ever
since her marriage, but has tried to regain the
old-time buoyancy by forcing herself into
increased excitement and gaiety. Oh, the
fatal mistake! Rest, rest is the proper tonic. 
In this state she meets the sacred mysteries of
maternity; but instead of becoming the quali-
fied guardian of so precious a trust as a human
soul, she is the ailing invalid, a victim to what
is ignorantly supposed to be the natural condi-
tion of maternity. Had all the misplaced
affection, the misspent time, misapplied energy
been devoted to a proper and intelligent pre-
paration for the wedding, by taking a course
of medical studies—without which no woman’s
education can be complete—how different
would be the results. As every mother is to
be warden of the life and health of her home,
so should she know how to administer their
laws. 
	Not only are young ladies, but the mothers
of families, carried away, so to speak, by the 
decorative “craze,” and the fear and torture of
body and mind, which many mothers experi-
ence in the rearing of their families, in ignor-
ance of the simple laws of health, is sad to
contemplate. If baby has the colic or any
simple ailment or disease of childhood, the
mother is powerless, till grandma or the doctor
arrives; or if indigestion overtakes any member
of the family, as the result of ignorance in
preparing digestible food, the same difficulty is
ever present.
	“Oh, mamma! read me a pretty story,” says
the little child, who has lived, despite its
mother’s ignorance. “No, darling, mamma hasn’t
time; see the pretty flowers I am making on
your dress.” “Take me into the field for

[Column 2] 
pretty flowers, mamma; I want to hear the birds
sing, too.” “Oh, now mamma’s too busy; I’ve so
much fancy work to do for my little girl.” So
the weary little brain, hungry for a story, goes
out alone to learn its own lessons of good or
evil. What beautiful flowers of thought and 
happiness the mother has denied her child’s
heart, to work them on the perishable dress.
When the lovely daughter has wandered from
your control, think, oh, vain mother, that, per-
haps, you dug the impassable gulph between
you with an embroidery needle or a crochet
hook. 	L. T. F.


