DAVIS STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Davis Stake was held in Farming-
ton meeting house on Friday, April 20th,
Mrs. Mary S. Clark presiding	Present on the
stand were Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
Mrs. Mary S. Clark, Mrs. Lucinda Brown.
Meeting opened by singing. Prayer by Bishop
Secrist. Continued with singing, Minutes of
the previous conference read and accepted.
The Relief Society of East Bountiful, Center-
ville, Farmington and Kaysville were then
represented by the respective presidents.
	Mrs. Mary S. Clark made the opening re-
marks. Spoke of the goodness of God and
His blessings towards us as a people, hoped we
all appreciated the same; felt sure that we were
engaged in a good work and the Lord would
protect us if we were faithful.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne urged the necessity of at
tending onr meetings; thought many did not
appreciate these organizations as they should;
we should learn the responsibility that is rest-
ing upon us. Spoke of the necessity of im-
pressing on the minds of our children the truth
of this work. Also spoke of the important
mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith in estab-
lishing this work; made many other excellent
remarks.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells Spoke of the trials this peo-
ple were passing through,but said it is spreading
the Gospel more widely than ever; was sure
there was a bright future before us, urged the
sisters to take care of their bodies, take time to
rest and read and inform their minds; urged
the necessity of sending the children to the
Primary.
	Bishop Secrist said he had heard many
good things this morning and could bear testi-
mony that they were the truth. The Relief
Society is one of the organizations of the
Kingdom of God. Asked the Lord to bless
the sisters for he felt they were doing much
good.
	Adjourned until 2 p.m. by singing "Lord,
dismiss us wiith thy blessing." Benediction
by Brother Tibbetts.
	Afternoon session: Meeting commenced
with singing "We thank Thee, O God, for a
Prophet. Prayer by Johnathan Wood. Sing-
ing, "Lo, the mighty God appearing."
	Mrs. E. B. Wells was the first speaker; ex-
pressed herself as being very thankful that
she had been able to keep the faith and endure
the many trials the Saints had been allotted to
pass through. They have been good lessons
for us, and if we have not profited by them
we must be very dull,advised all to watch them-
selves for the adversary tries harder to over-
come those that have made covenants with the
Lord. She also spoke on many more interest-
ing subjects, among others the storing of grain
for a time of need.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne spoke of the necessity of
our improving our minds, gaining all the
knowledge that we can, for that remains with
us; while we have to leave behind us all the


wealth we accumulate; thought it was no time
for folly and vanity, but more of a time for
feasting and prayer spoke of the necessity of
being very watchful of our children, to try
and keep them from coming in contact with
evil influences; set good examples for them to
follow and said many more excellent things.
	Mrs. Lucinda Brown was glad to meet with
her sisters; feared that we did not appreciate
the blessings that we enjoy; asked the sisters if
they remembered to pray for those who were
in exile and deprived of their liberty; never
had seen a time when she felt to acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all things as she did
at the present. Exhorted all to cultivate the
spirit of kindness and love; never speak evil of
each other; knew this was the kingdom of God,
and thought we should all be interested in
building it up.
	Mrs. Mary S. Clark made the closing remarks;
said the time seemed too short whenever we
met together; would like to have heard from
the brethren; spoke of the work for the dead,
that we should all be interested in this great
work; let us all remember our prayers, seek for
the sweet influence of the Spirit of the Lord,
watch ourselves, and try and prepare ourselves
to meet our friends who have gone behind the
veil. May the blessings of the Lord be with
us, is my prayer. 
	Conference adjourned for three months, to
meet at Kaysville. Singing, "Truth reflects
upon our senses." Benediction by Ezra T.
Clark.
