ONE MORE INSTANCE.

	So much has been written about the suffer-
ing, persecutions and trials of the Mormon
women during, the early days of our
Church, that it must seem to many that there
is nothing that is worthy of note, but has been
recorded in our journals. Yet there have been,
I have no doubt, many scenes in the lives of
these noble women that have not found record,
except in that great Book of Life, out of which
we all, some day, shall be judged.
	One by one our mothers, the witnesses, and
often the victims of the early persecutions of
the Church, are passing away; soon there will
be none left to tell the tales of trials and en-
durance to their children, to whom the names
of Missouri and Illinois are fraught with dire-
ful reflections.
	One of these aged mothers, who was a
victim to the unjust and cruel persecution of a
Missouri mob, has passed into that quiet rest that
only the righteous know. In the humble
home, where she had reared her sons and
daughters to manhood and womanhood, and
nursed her grandchildren upon her knee, her
pure spirit went softly out from the home in
which she had known so much of sorrow and
of suffering, to Him whose arm had been
around, and whose promises had sustained her
through all her years of trial.
	All that loving hands could do had been
done, and she lay enfolded in her robe of
snowy white, upon which the little grandchild-
ren, in loving tenderness, had each laid their
tribute of flowers. Her withered, toil-hardened
hands were crossed upon the bosom that had
never breathed aught but breaths of kindness;
the aged face seamed by more furrows than
those made by time, bore a peaceful, holy calm
upon it, as though the spirit had, ere its de-
parture from its earthly tenament, left upon
it the impress of its coming glory.
	She was a person of not much note, and the
crowd assembled at this, her last earthly re-
ception, was not a large one, and was composed
mostly of those who knew and loved her best,
and from one of those, one who lived close in
her affections, I learned this story of her life,
which, since it had never been told, I promised
myself I would write up in my poor way, that

[column 2]

it may find its place among its kindred circum-
stances.
	She was a Norwegian by birth, an early con-
vert to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints. I have forgotten, if I was told the
year of her emigration to America, with her
husband and family. The little means they 
had saved, by dint of hard labor and close 
economy in their native land, was exhausted
by the time they reached New York, but keep-
ing their eye upon the West, they pushed on as
far as Missouri, working their way as they
went.
	In this state they sought labor whereby to
raise means to purchase a team and wagon,
which was necessary to take them to Utah.
The husband succeeded in getting a position
among mill men, and the wife sought work
among the different families of the neighbor-
hood. Before the year waned they found them-
selves in possession of the coveted and much
needed team and wagon, also one cow.
	During their stay in Missouri they were
much harassed by the mobocratic spirit which
prevailed there against the Saints, but when
they were in all readiness to commence their
journey into Iowa where they were to join a
company of Saints enroute to Zion, they were
forbidden to leave, and ordered to denounce
their delusion, as their religion was; they, how-
ever, continued to make preparation to leave.
The husband had fulfilled his contract faith-
fully with his employers, and could see no
reason why he should be detained. To hinder
him his enemies stole one ox from his hard
earned team, but he yoked the cow beside the
odd ox. A mob made search for the husband,
threatening to kill him if they found him. He
skulked his way out of the neighborhood,
while the wife put their few effects into the
wagon, yoked the unmatched team and started.
She had not gone far when the mob assailed
her, and tore from her, her little son, the oldest 
of her children. Filled with terror and despair,
the poor woman sought an officer of the law;
this proved no easy task for her, as no one
seemed very anxious to serve her; however, as
she could identify two or three of the party
who had assailed her, she succeeded in getting
a hearing before a justice of the peace. What 
was done or said in the court she knew nothing,
as she could understand scarcely a word of the
English language, but at the close her child
was restored to her, and feeling once more
happy, she took him by the hand and left the
room. Before she had gone far she was again
assailed and a second time he was snatched
from her. Again she sought the officer and
asked redress, but he said though he was sorry
for her, yet he could do nothing for her unless
she could identify the parties who had wronged
her; this she could not do, as the men had
masked their faces.
	For days this poor Norwegian family lin-
gered in the neighborhood, begging and sup-
plicating the people for help to find their little
one, but to no purpose. To be a "Mormon" in
those cruel days of Missouri was only to incite
hatred and persecution, and no one heeded
their distress or tried to aid them, till, finally,
through fear of death to themselves and the
rest of their little flock, they were forced to
leave their little boy, whom they never saw
again. After they reached Utah, and had be-
come more acquainted with the laws of the
country, they made renewed efforts to find
some trace of him, but with no avail.
	What sufferings were imposed upon him by
his fiendish captors during his childish years,
what the end of his career was after a life of
association with such men—cruel as they were
—what temptations may have assailed him and
drawn him into sin and wickedness, what
crimes he may have committed, were thoughts
that settled around the poor mother's heart, a
burden of sorrow that was lifted only when

[Column 3]

death set his seal upon her forehead on that
bright morning of the day on which my story
opens.
	And this story of hers is only one tale out
of many that might be told. Hers is only one
more white robe among the righteous throng
that surrounds the throne of the Father; she
is one more whose garments have been made
white in the blood of the Lamb; one more who
has gained the victory over death and her
enemies, and reached that place where "the
wicked cease from troubling and the weary
are at rest."
		NEMO.


