	TO THE SISTERS.

	To you who are rearing families, and you who
are just married, I have a few words to say:
	In the beginning the curse was pronounced upon
Eve, that she should bring forth children in sorrow.
But has not the time come when the curse will be
taken from the daughters of Eve? not by deadly
chloroform, but by natural means, that is within
the reach of everyone.
	If women would live in a more healthy manner,
leave off corsets, breathe pure air, take the right
course to strengthen the abdominal muscles, and
live on a fruit diet, keep the Word of Wisdom and
the celestial law, I know that in natural cases
childbirth would be almost painless What a
blessing, what a boon to women! It depends up-
on yourselves whether you suffer or not.
	I have had two children born with scarcely any
pain, and three others without the assistance of
a midwife. I only mention this to show that I
know that labors can be painless, or nearly so. If
a child is pitched, flannels wrung out of hot water
and placed on the abdomen as hot as possible,
and a dry one over to exclude the air, will relax
the system and give help right away; and in one
case, by that method, the child that had presented
wrong, turned of its own accord to a head pre-
sentation, and was born with but a few pains.
	The dress should be worn loose, so that women
will not feel so sick in the morning, and in fact
tight dresses should never be worn, as they restrict
the circulation and the breathing, and tight lacing
forces the internal organs out of place, laps the
ribs, and produces a great deal of suffering, and
often death.
	If you don't feel like eating in the morning,
don't eat until you are hungry. That is a good
maxim throughout life; hunger demands food, but
if the stomach is crowded with food, when it can-
not digest it, then it produces sickness at the
stomach and other ailments.
	Everyone should study themselves, and they
can soon find out what benefits them. If an
article of diet is disliked, don't force yourself to
eat, but get something else agreeable. For
biliousness and sickness at the stomach, drink
something sour—vinegar, water and sugar, lemon-
ade, drinks from cream of tartar, tartaric acid, and
sugar are healthy and good for summer.
	Avoid cooking, when the sight and smell of
victuals makes you sick. In the first months of
pregnancy a women needs help, when she can
scarcely drag around, and sleep and rest ought to
be her portion.
	A fruit diet overcomes constipation, while pills
and physic do more harm than good; a relaxing
diet is much better.
	Keep the Word of Wisdom. Tea stimulates, but
depresses, brings on sick headache and numerous
evils. How little would we suffer if we did as the
Lord has told us.
	For heartburn do without a meal, that is the
best remedy.
	Don't work so hard that you are all of the time
tired, and in consequence have a feeble child, that
soon dies, or has a struggle to live. Rest when-
ever inclined, or change hard work to light, and
delight in what you are doing.
	When the system needs sleep, do not try by
washing your face in cold water, going into the
open air, drinking tea, and other ways, to rouse
yourselves to do more work, but sleep until you
have had your sleep out, and you will be rewarded
with more energy and better health.
	Be out doors as much as possible; breathe the
pure air, and breathe deeply.

[Column 2]

	You that need, try, and see if suffering cannot
be avoided, your own lives happier and healthier,
and your children consequently healthier and
longer lived.
