WOMEN IN POLITICS.
	On the twelfth of February, eighteen hun-
dred and seventy, the legislative assembly of
Utah passed an act confering upon women the
elective franchise; this act, having been ap-
proved by the Governor, became a law. Mrs.
Wells writes: "The peculiar exigencies and ex-
periences of Mormon life, have had a tendency
to make women self-helpful and self-reliant,
and have given them indomitable energy and
undaunted courage, and these characteristics
prepare them to use more discretely any trust
or confidence reposed in them." This is most
true, and has been fully proven by the manner
in which they exercised their privileges as free
citizens; we say tree, for no man or woman is a
free citizen who cannot have a voice at the
polls. For seventeen years the women of Utah
voted regularly for territorial, county and city
officers; also for delegate to Congress, Having
themselves the right of suffrage, the women of
Utah have always felt an interest in their sis-
ters in other states, and have assisted as best
they could, by petitions and other means, the
suffrage movement.
	The women were very eager to vote, but
took no other political privileges much before
eighteen seventy-eight, when they attended the
caucusses and primary meetings. Out of the
five different precincts in Salt Lake City, three
of them sent women delegates to the County
Convention. At this Convention, the first that
women had a voice in, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells
was chosen as Secretary, and also nominated
for County Treasurer, but owing to the Statutes
of the Territory, the nomination could not be
sustained by the Convention. Though the law
allowed women to vote, the legal objection to
women holding office was found in the compiled
laws of Utah, which read, "Male citizens."
The gentlemen of this Convention showed great
liberality towards and pleasure in having the

[Column 2]

women associated with them, and offered to the
lady nominee for treasurer a vote of confidence
and assurance that she should have been sus-
tained if the  statutes had allowed. At this
same Convention three ladies' names—E.
B. Wells, M. I. Horne and S. M. Kim-
ball—were added to the People's Central Com-
mittee. The work of this Convention was
quite an advanced step for the women of the
Territory. These three women remained on
the Central Committee, and worked with sin-
cerity up to the time of the disfranchisement
of women. In several following conventions
women have held the offices of vice presidents
and secretaries.
	During this year of seventy-eight, when
women were making such progress in political
affairs. the subject of plural marriage was
greatly agitated, and active measures were
taken by certain parties to arouse public senti-
ment against its practice. A mass meeting of
non-Mormon women was held, and after some
speech-making against the Mormons in general,
certain resolutions were adopted and a circular
sent to Congress against polygamy, and speak-
ing in favor of the disfranchisement of the
women of Utah. Thus, the first blow against
Woman's Rights in Utah was struck by women.
It has often been remarked, that if it were not
for women themselves, women might vote,
and it is, to a great extent, true. At any
rate, the non-Mormon women of Utah have
shown little inclination to vote, and have been
very earnest in their efforts against the rights
of Mormon women.
	This Anti-Polygamy Meeting was followed
by a Mass Meeting of the women of Utah in the
Salt Lake Theatre. There were present at
least two thousand women; such a gathering
as is seldom seen in any place. There were,
perhaps, some fifteen or twenty newspaper re-
porters present, the only men admitted. There
were some eight or nine addresses by prominent
women, and then resolutions were read and
adopted, wherein the women declared them-
selves loyal citizens, and claimed the right to
defend themselves against the ruthless assaults
being made upon their sacred and constitutional
rights. It was a brave and a great defense,
when two thousand women rose en masse and
declared themselves determined to maintain
and defend their rights. Mass meetings of
women were held all over the Territory endors-
ing the sentiments expressed, and adopting the
resolutions presented at this mass meeting.
Not only were the women of Utah themselves
aroused, but the noble women of the suffrage
associations were alike enraged at the crusade
which had begun, and defended the women of
Utah in the the halls of Congress. Lillie
Devereaux Blake, when the subject of disfran-
chisement first appeared, wrote a very cutting
and fitting article against such a movement,
showing, in her pointed satire, the absurdity of
trying to prevent polygamy by taking the vote
from the women.
	The next year Utah sent two delegates—
Mrs. E. B. Wells and Zina Y. Williams—to
the National Woman's Suffrage Convention at
Washington, who were allowed many oppor-
tunities of speaking in behalf of the Mormon
women. During an interview with President
Hayes, he was so impressed by their statements
as to request them to put their case in writing,
before him, as he did not wish to trust so im-
portant a matter to a verbal interview. They
also prepared, while in Washington, a touching
and telling memorial to Congress, asking for a
repeal of the anti-polygamy law of eighteen
sixty-two, and for legislation to protect the
women and children of Utah. This memorial
was referred to the Judiciary Committee, be-
fore which these ladies had several hearings.
When the women of this Territory were first
threatened with disfranchisement they went to
the Nation's Capital to assert their rights, and

[Column 3]

to the National Woman's Suffrage Association
to ask assistance, and they did not ask in vain.
The suffragists have been most kind in speaking
for our rights, and we always have a representa
tion at their Conventions.
	The women of Utah petitioned the Terri-
torial Legislature of eighteen eighty, praying
for the removal of their political disabilities,
stating that for nine years they had enjoyed
the right of suffrage, and had proven them-
selves worthy of the trust; they argued, that
owing to the word male in the territorial
statutes, they were prohibited from holding any
official position, and prayed that some enact-
ment might be passed to remove this obstacle,
and allow them further rights. This prayer
was granted by the assembly, a bill having
been pressented and passed in accordance with
their wishes, viz: "A bill removing the political
disabilities of the women of Utah." This bill
passed the House with a large majority vote,
and the Council unanimously, but was ignored
by the Governor, as was also a similar bill pre-
sented some two years before. It is a sad
reflection on the Government, which boasts
such unparallelled freedom, that the contempt
of a single man, who has neither property or
interest of any kind in the Territory, can pre-
vent the passage of an act which is in accord-
ance with the wishes of the voters and the law-
makers of the community. At the time
the legislature again convened, the in-
famous Edmunds Bill was pending in Congress,
and as that was passed in March, 1882, all
women who were the wives of polygamous men
were disfranchised.
	The next effort on the part of the people for
rights was to frame a State Constitution and
present the same to Congress, asking for ad-
mission, and it was the intention to have a
Woman's Suffrage Plank in its platform. In
eighteen eighty-four there were four representa-
tive women in Washington working before
committees for the admission of Utah, and for
the repeal or modification of the Edmunds
Bill, which was then causing such great suffer-
ing and trouble among the people of this Terri-
tory. So great had this trouble become, that
the women had no heart to fight for political
rights; it seemed as though they scarcely had
the right to live at all. In eighteen eighty-six
the dreadful Edmunds-Tucker Bill became a
law, and from that time all tue women have
been disfranchised.
	It has been questioned some why the women
of Utah, not plural wives, do not make a stand
and plead for their former rights; and 'twould
seem if they were at all interested in suffrage
that they would certainly do so; their silence
speaks against them. If they would only try
to regain the ballot, they might do good to
others as well as themselves. We scarcely
need call it their right, it is their duty; your
brothers and sisters are bound; they have no
freedom. Obtain your rights, free women of
Utah, and do your duty to your country. Mrs.
Stanton says, "I want women to feel that it is
their religious duty to take part in government,
the most elevated of all sciences."


