WOMAN UNDER THE LAW.
	This division will include that which custom
has legalized without enactments, as well as
that found in the written code. The four sects
of Mohammedans receive their code of law
as well as of morals from the Koran. So
strongly rooted is this faith, that even as the
English have found it unwise to change from
the Mohammedan law in India, the framers of
the code adopted for the native courts just
established in Egypt, have but copied the Koran
in all that relates to marriage, polygamy, di-
vorce and concubinage. A Muslim may have
at one time four wives, and the Book says: "If
you cannot act equitably by them, take from
those whom your right hand has acquired,"
meaning slaves. Mohammedans believe that
woman is created for man's pleasure and com-
fort, and that though she is crafty and danger-
ous, she must be made to serve him with as
little bother as possible, during the time he de-
sires her. She will not follow him to Paradise
unless he wishes her presence, and he religiously
expects to have better society. The Koran has
a full recognition of slavery and supposes it to
be a perpetual institution of the country. A
slave may not marry her master, while a slave,
but the mother of her master's child is usually
emancipated, and the child is a legitimate heir.
When a girl is old enough to marry, she can of
her own free will marry any man by consenting
and receiving a part of her dower; but the
consent of the girl who is not old enough to
marry, is not required, her nearest male rela-
tive can dispose of her by receiving her dower.
The dower among the poor is small, but there
must be something paid by the husband or his
father to the nearest male relative of the
child.
	A wife may be divorced twice and return to
her husband, but if he divorces her a third
time, and, with a triple divorce declared, send
her away, he cannot live with her again until

[Column 2]

she has been one month married to another
man. After the third divorce, the husband
must pay the part of the dower which was set
aside for the wife before marriage, and he must
support her out of the house during the three
months in which she may not marry
again. If the wife be separated from
the man, and not divorced, she re-
ceives a weekly allowance from him. A
divorced woman may, after divorce, retain her
son, under two years of age, and custom gives
the child to the mother until it is seven years
old; then the father must claim the son. When
a man forfeits an engagement to marry, he
must pay the woman half her dower, and she
is free to marry at once. When a wife is diso-
bedient, the husband may beat her; if she per-
sist in disobedience he may take her with two
witnesses, not his relations, to the court, and
declare against her, and if she does not promise
to be obedient thereafter, is not obliged to feed,
lodge or clothe her, but need not divorce her;
and if he suspects that she desires to be di-
vorced in order to remarry, he surely will not.
If she confesses her wrong, and promises obedi-
ence, he must at once divorce her, or take her
home. If a wife does not wish to live with her
husband, she enters a complaint against him at
the court, stating that her family will support
her, and makes a demand for separation. If
the women of the same harem, or of different
ones, quarrel and are complained of to the
court, their husbands are punished by the
court; but we may be sure that their vicarious
correction does not save the poor victim from
chastisement. The husband divorces the wife,
but the wife cannot divorce the husband. If
the Muslim cannot marry a wife of his own
faith, or is deeply in love, he may marry a
Jewess or a Christian, but the children must
follow the faith of the father. A Muslim woman
may not marry a man out of the faith, unless
compelled by force, and a man may not live
with either Jewess or Christian to whom he is
not married. A master or mistress cannot
marry a slave. Copts do not divorce except
for unfaithfulness on the part of the wife; the
woman cannot divorce the husband. If a
Coptic wife commits a great crime, her husband
may separate himself from her; neither can
marry another, but they may remarry after
the law has been satisfied.
	Slavery and the bastinado yet exist in
Europe. The existing law does not recognize
primogeniture, and generally gives the woman
heir half what it gives the male heir of the
same relationship. After debts and legacies
are paid, one-eighth belongs to the wife, if
there be children; one fourth if there be none.
A husband inherits half of his wife's property
if she have no children; if she has children he
inherits one-fourth. If a man has only a sister
by the same father and mother, she inherits
half his property, while the only brother
inherits the whole of a sister's. The
mother, in certain cases, inherits equally
with the father. In the division of a man's
property there is no difference made between
the children of the legal wives and the slaves
and the adopted children: The illegitimate
child inherits only from the mother.
	For the murder of a man under palliating
circumstances, twice as much blood-money is
demanded as for the murder of a woman. The
killing of a robber has no penalty. A woman
convicted of murder should be drowned in the
Nile; the fine for wounding a woman is half
that for wounding a man. The Koran com-
mands that the unfaithful wife be put to [--]ath,
and this is done secretly, in spite of the efforts
to prevent the irresponsible from usurping the
prerogative of the law. A man taken for the
army is deemed dead to his family, For many
years mothers have maimed their sons that
they might be exempt from military service,
and often when the mother failed to do this for

[Column 3]

her son, he has maimed himself. It is useless
to appeal to a man's patriotism, when he must
fight for the overthrow of his faith, and the
spoilation of his people; no wonder that when
the conscripting officers enter a village, the
men flee to the tombs and holes in the rocks,
to escape their fate. Starvation drives them
back again; they are seized, chained neck to
neck, and packed upon the transports. And
it has not yet occurred to the most Christian
nation which inaugurated the last philanthropic
war, to change the conditions of military servi-
tude, so as to give the Egyptian women pro-
tection against desertion, when it has haled the
husband and father from home and family.
The wife is left to struggle with increased taxa-
tion, fines, mortgages and ignorance. During
the years of this afflictive visitation, sickening
scenes are perpetual on the banks of the Nile:
men forced away. women, with smeared faces,
following in crowds, wailing and crying as for
the dead, and dancing the funeral dance. And
as each conscript walks the long plank from
the shore, the women send forth curses on the
despoiler, and stretch out their arms in hope-
less agony to the poor victim who is to render
unwilling service to the captors of his country,
the foes of his faith. These sad sights, the
constant passing of transports with sick soldiers
down the river, and the general unrest of in-
vasion, have for five years prevented intelligent
travellers and invalids from visiting Upper
Egypt, and destroyed the long known luxuri-
ous peace and healthful repose of the Nile
voyage.
THEIR FUTURE.
	Among the rejected Gospels of the New
Testament is the Gospel to the Egyptians, in
which it is related that Salome asked our Lord
how long death shonld prevail, and the Christ
answered: "As long as ye women are mothers."
These words have been quoted to support celi-
bacy; but it is through this strongest element
in the Egyptian that Egypt's deliverance must
come. The mother loves her child and her
love is perpetual, and it has enabled her, under
 the oppression of these last years, to overcome
her indolence and sustain herself and her child-
ren, and hold her possessions. And other
women, without possessions, have sold in the
markets, tilled the fields, made trinkets, carried
water and driven donkeys for the stranger,
that they and their army orphaned children
might live. The class of women known as
dancing girls are the pest of the villages, and
the beauty we have read of does not appear;
they have not even that excuse for being.
But the slave women from the Soudan and
Abyssinia are the live industrial female power
of Upper Egypt. Their strong, well-shapen
bodies and amiable intelligence, promise a
coming race that may equal the Memlooks in
daring.
	But to what source can we look for any
speedy elevation of Egyptian women with a
religion which teaches them they depend on
the wish of man for immortality, that the
envious eye of a neighbor may destroy their
children, that their guardian-angel may play
them ridiculous tricks, cause them illness and
even death, that to be the mother of many
children is their justification for existing, that
the marital chastisement, authorized by the
Prophet, is the best proof of the husband's
love; that the daughter is purer and more to
be desired in marriage, if she cannot read or
write. that if she must go to school, she may
not remain after she is ten or twelve years old;
that she who has never been seen by her hus-
band is the truly virtuous girl; and that it is
the mother's duty to marry her daughter, even
if she does not desire to be a wife?
	Verily, a wide sea lies between the old, beauti-
ful Land of the Sunrise, and the new, fresh
Land of the Sunset.


