NOTES AND NEWS. 
	The Chicago Law Times and Bradwell’s Ap-
pellate Court Reports are published and edited
by female lawyers. 

	There are probably a thousand women in 
the city of Pittsburgh who work in iron mills, 
making bolts, nuts, hinges and barbed wire. 

	Mrs. Tennyson is described as a sweet grace-
ful woman, with singularly winning, gentle
manners, but looking painfully fragile and
wan.

	Queen Victoria is the first English reigning
sovereign who has visited Florence since the 
time of the Crusades, when Richard I. passed
through the city.

	Mrs. Livermore and Mrs Stanton, in 1869, in 
Illinois, were not allowed to speak until they
had paid a license of five dollars. “But now,”
said Mrs. Livermore at the suffrage festival,
“instead of paying for a license to speak, we
make everybody pay a dollar to come and
hear.”

	The Empress Victoria of Germany has
turned inventor. From plans drawn by her, a 
writing desk has been manufactured which 
enables the Emperor to write whether lying in 
bed or standing up. It is available in any
position, and the mechanism is said to be in-
tricate and remarkably effective. 

	Princess Irene of Hesse, who has just mar-
ried Prince Henry of Prussia, has received a 
thorough housewife’s training. She can sew, 
make bread, and do everything she would have
to do, were she fated to become the wife of a 
poor man. All the Princesses of Hesse were 
trained in this way by their mother, the late
grand duchess, daughter of Queen Victoria.—
Ex.
	Mrs. Maria E. Beasley, of Philadelphia, 
has made a fortune by the invention of a ma-
chine for the construction of barrels, which, up 
to that time, had been made almost wholly by 
hand. The machine is worked by three men
and turns out more than 600 completed barrels
a day. Mrs. Beasley was born in North
Carolina, of wealthy parents. She possesses
remarkable mechanical genius. Her first in-
vention was a machine for hooping barrels. It
will hoop 1,700 barrels a day, and is used by 
the Standard Oil Company.—Ex.

	The Boston Globe advises husbands to take
home flowers to their wives at this season of the
year. The Globe says, “It is often too true
that the very men who think nothing is too good
for a girl when they are winning her, seem to 
think that anything—or nothing—is good
enough for her once she is won. But married
men are not all of that stripe. There are
Benedicts who keep up the sweet old ways, and
regularly buy a bunch of posies for their
better halves. Why can’t all men realize that
it isn’t enough just to love their wives? Why
can’t they show that they love them? If hus-
bands would show a little more attention to 
their wives, there would be fewer divorce cases
in our courts.”


