APOSTLE ERASTUS SNOW.

	Apostle Erastus Snow died at his residence in
Salt Lake City, at five minutes to seven o'clock,
Sunday evening, May 27, 1888. Bro. Snow was
decended from one of the early New England
(Puritan) families, who located in Mass., but after-
wards some of them settled in northern Vermont,
where the subject of this sketch was born, in St.
Johnsbury, Caledonia Co., Vt., November 9, 1818.
His parents were Levi and Lucina Snow, and he
was one of seven sons and two daughters. Joseph 
Smith, Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball and
Newel K. Whitney, as well as Erastus Snow
and many other leading men of the Latter-day
work, were born in Vermont. It is true, no
doubt, that climate and conditions of country have
an effect upon character, and these Green Moun-
tain boys were of that honest, upright, sterling
character which is needful to make Latter-day
Saints.
	In the Spring of 1832, Elders Orson Pratt and
Luke Johnson carried the Gospel into that region
of country where Levi Snow's family resided, and
two of the sons, William and Zerubbabel, were
baptized, and subsequently nearly the whole
family. William Snow baptized his brother
Erastus Feb. 3, 1833. and he was ordained a
teacher Jan. 28, 1834, by Elder John F. Boynton.
At that time he assisted his father in the farm work
but he also labored faithfully in the ministry, and
visited the Saints in that vicinity, doing mission-
ary work as opportunity offered. November 13
1834, he was ordained a Priest by his brother
William, and soon after traveled as a missionary
in the States of New York and New Hampshire,
preaching publicly and privately. He baptized
quite a number into the Church who had been
converted through his teaching. August 16, 1835,
he was ordained an Elder by Luke Johnson, and
afterwards traveled and preached with his brother,
Willard Snow, and others in New Hampshire and
Vermont.
	He left his home in St. Johnsbury for Kirtland
in company with Hazen Aldrich, Nov. 8, 1835. It
was quite a journey in those days to travel 700
miles, and he was just seventeen the day after they
started. While crossing Lake Erie they came
near being shipwrecked, but were saved, and after
rather a rough journey they reached Kirtland Dec.
3, 1835.
	After his arrival in Kirtland, then the head-
quarters of the Saints, Erastus Snow was recog-
nized as a young Elder of great promise. He
possessed a fine voice, and his eloquence was
quite remarkable at that early period, although his
opportunities for acquiring knowledge had been
limited to a country school education. In the
winter of 1835-36, he attended the Elder's school
in Kirtland, where he received instruction, both
religious and secular, and he was an attentive and
apt student, thirsting for intelligence. Even be-

[Column 2]

fore he had enjoyed these advantages, his sermons 
were alluded to as models of oratory and eloquence.
Bro. Snow was present at the dedication of the
Kirtland Temple, and has testified of the wonderful
gifts and manifestations received and seen therein.
He was earnest and zealous in his labors in the
ministry and as a missionary among
the people, converting and baptizing many
into the Church, and also organiz-
ing several branches in various districts in
Pennsylvania, where he labored some months.
Like many other Elders in those days, he suffered
from prejudice, and had narrow escapes from
mob violence. He afterwards went out in other
directions on other missions in several of the
Stakes, and was very successful in evangelical
work. Elder E. Snow was often engaged in public
discussions with men of talent and public notoriety
among the sectarian world, and although young in
years, and not possessing the collegiate education
that ministers are expected to receive in the out-
side world, yet he invariably succeeded in debate
upon the principles of the Gospel. He was famil-
iar with the Scriptures, and his reasoning was
logical and convincing to the honest-hearted.
	In 1838, after a mission to Pennsylvania and
Virginia, he went up to Far West, where his
parents and other relatives had removed from
Vermont. It was there he married, December 13,
1838, Artemisia Beman. His subsequent career
in Missouri is spoken of as a very important era
in his life. With other brethren, he aided in the
attempt of the Prophet and those imprisoned with
him, to escape from Liberty Jail, Feb. 8, 1839, and
was, with his companions, arrested and imprisoned
and afterwards tried, when he plead his own cause
in the court with such soundness and eloquence,
that the judge inquired where he had studied
law.
	After the Saints were driven from Missouri,
Brother Snow located his family in Montrose, on
the opposite side of the Mississippi from Nauvoo.
He performed some missions in Illinois, and ad-
ministered to many who were sick
until he himself was prostrated. At
the October Conference, in 1839, he
was made a member of the High Council at
Montrose. Like many others of the Saints in
these trying times, he and his family were severe-
ly afflicted with fever and ague. Int the Spring of
1840, Elder Snow started on another mission to
the East, preaching and traveling in Pennsylvania
and New Jersey, laboring with great diligence
and accomplishing a great work.
	In August 1841 he left that field of labor to go to
Salem. Mass., where his success was almost un-
bounded; his mission and labors extended into
neighboring towns, both in Massachusetts and
New Hampshire and also into the cultured city
of Boston. We remember very well hearing of
his fame in that region of country when Mormon-
ism first began to be spoken of up among the New
England hills in the Connecticut valley," and how
expectation was on tiptoe when the news was
brought that young Erastus Snow was coming up
there to preach. The impression of him at that
time among the local Saints was that he was
equal to Daniel Webster in eloquence and intelli-
gence. He was looked upon by the village folks
as an Eastern man, and not so much of a pilgrim
and wanderer as other "Mormon" Elders who
came and preached from time to time. The idea
of his being like Daniel Webster was not out of
the way, as the future verified his statesmanship
and his adaptation for legislative work and in-
fluence in "the arena of politics," so called.
	Elder Snow was in Massachusetts on his second
mission there, when the Prophet and Patriarch
were killed, and hearing of the tragedy he re-
turned to Nauvoo. Brother Snow was actively en-
gaged in the Temple work until the exodus, and
left Nauvoo Feb. 16, 1846, with the first companies
of the exiled Saints on their journey westward.

[Column 3]

From Mt. Pisgah he made a return trip to Nauvoo,
and then came on to Council Bluffs.
	Elder Snow was selected as one of the Pioneers
to seek out a resting place for the Saints, and as
has often been told, was one of the first to look
upon this beautiful valley on the 21st of July,
1847, the other being Orson Pratt.
	It is impossible to give more than an item here
and there of the life and labors of the great and
good man, but his days were full of usefulness
and his ways and words were always rich in wis-
dom and in the gifts of the Gospel with which he
was endowed from his youth until the time of his
decease. After the organization of the First
Presidency from the Quorum of the Twelve
Apostles causing three vacancies. There was
still another vacancy caused by Lyman Wight's
apostacy, and four brethren were chosen. Elder
Erastus Snow was one of the chosen four or-
dained to fill the vacant places. In October Con-
ference following he was appointed to go on a
mission to Denmark and landed in Copenhagen
in June 1850. This was one of the great open-
ings of missionary work, for the Gospel has spread
throughout Scandinavia from city to city and
county to county and many thousands have been
gathered home to Zion. This mission alone would
have immortalized the memory of Erastus Snow,
but his efforts in the cause have never ceased or
wavered, but his course has been onward and his 
labors untiring. As a colonizer in Utah and ad-
jacent lands he as ever been indefatigable,
wherever it was possible to open up towns or
abiding places, or to subdue the soil and make
homes for the people.
	It has been remarked that Erastus Snow as a
colonizer was second only to Brigham Young.
Southern Utah is in itself a positive proof of his
labors, enterprise and development, as it is well
known to all familiar with the country that it was
one of the most desolate and forbidding regions,
yet the Saints under his advice and leadership
have made themselves desirable homes and built
up and beautified towns, cities and farms, and
erected in its midst a magnificent Temple;
throughout that part of Utah Bro. Snow is every-
where recognized and spoken of as a father to the
people.
	During the last few years he has traveled and
labored in establishing settlements and arranging
and directing the affairs of the Saints in Arizona
and Mexico. He possessed the indomitable will
determination and heroism that characterized the
New Englanders from whom he was descended,
and which many of the leaders of this Church
inherited from their noble ancestors. The Lord
raised up just such men and women as were
needed to establish and maintain the principles
of the everlasting Gospel, and Bro. Snow is an
illustrious example of the strong and unflinching
characteristics of the class of men that are
needed to carry on the Latter-day work He was
not only faithful honest and upright among men
and in his public life, but he was exemplary as a
husband and father in his family relations. He
has left a large family to mourn his loss, but they
have the comfort and consolations of the Gospel
and an assurance that reaches beyond the grave
that if they remain faithful and true they will meet
him again and enjoy his society where there is no
pain or parting and all tears are wiped away.
	The funeral of Apostle E. Snow was held in the
Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, May 30th, services
commencing at 12 m. The body of Bro. Snow
lay in state from 8 o'clock in the morning, and
many thousands availed themselves of the oppor-
tunity of taking a last look at the face of the de-
ceased. The beauty and purity of the white
emblems used in draping, with running lines of
evergreens and white flowers, was very striking,
and was certainly in keeping with the views of the
Latter-day Saints: There were many vases of
flowers and floral tokens of love in suitable de-


signs, but the most beautiful of all was one in the
shape of a tombstone, around which were lovely
flowers, with a floral base of appropriate propor-
tions. In the centre of the floral frame was an in-
scription printed on white silk in gilt letters; it
was a token of love from the Scandinavians:
	"Erastus Snow, Apostle to the Scandinavians.
Token of Respect, in behalf of 50,000 members of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
who have embraced the Truth in Denmark,Sweden
and Norway, as the fruits of the Gospel door be-
ing opened in those countries in 1850-52, by our
beloved and esteemed Apostle, Erastus Snow."
	The entire effect of the decorating of the hall
was exquisitely elegant. The band played a
solemn dirge preliminary to the services, which
were presided over by Apostle Lorenzo Snow.
The singing by the Tabernacle choir was excellent,
and the selections tender and soothing. Prayer
was offered by Apostle F. D. Richards. Apostle
Lorenzo Snow opened his discourse by reading
the 13th verse of the 14th chapter of Revela-
tions:
	And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto
me, Write, Blessed are the dead which die in the
Lord from henceforth; yea, saith the Spirit, that
they may rest from their labors; and their works
do follow them.
	The other speakers were Prest: A. O. Smoot, of
Provo, Prest. Angus M. Cannon, Coun. D. H.
Wells, Elder Andrew Jenson and Apostle F. D.
Richards; also Apostle H. J. Grant, who read a
few words written by Apostle Moses Thatcher;
he was followed by Apostle J. H. Smith, who,
after addressing the congregation a few minutes,
read a communication from Prest. Wilford Wood-
ruff in behalf of the absent members of the Coun-
cil of the Apostles.
	The choir sang,
		"Nearer, my God, to Thee."
	Benediction was pronounced by Patriarch John
Smith.
	The procession was formed with the band and
Apostles as pall-bearers, after these the hearse,
the family, the choir and the various quorums of
the priesthood, followed by citizens.  At the ceme-
tery the choir sang,
		"O, my Father, Thou that dwellest."
	Coun. D. H. Wells offered up a dedicatory
prayer, and the body of this illustrious Apostle
was consigned to its last resting place to await the
morning of the resurrection.


