DEAR EDITOR:
	I thought I would give you a brief account of
our May-day celebration, which was certainly an
enjoyable time to all who participated in it.
	It had been arranged, under the auspicies of the
Mesa Relief Society, for both old and young to meet
at a grove about two- miles out of town, but this
part was changed, and it was concluded best to
meet at the bowery, reserving the hall for the pic-
nic. At 10 a.m. the children came in crowds, girls
dressed with a profusion of flowers.
	The May queen, with her twelve maids of honor,
looked, in their pure white, emblems of purity and
innocence.
	Opening speech by Prest. C. I. Robson, who
gave a retrospective view of this custom of cele-
brating the 1st day of May, which had prevailed
throughout Christendom for so many ages past,
tracing it back to the time of the Roman Empire,
but could not find any authorized account as to its
origin. He supposed, as the month of May
ushered in the season of flowers, therefore it was
celebrated as a festal holiday.
	Then followed the crowning of the May-queen
—Miss Amy Babbitt—by maids of honor, with
appropriate songs.
	A speech by the May-queen was delivered in an
easy, graceful manner, which quite captivated the
hearts of her audience. Songs, recitations and
dialogues occupied the rest of the forenoon, until
it was pronounced picnic time, and then such a
busy time for busy hands.
	Tables were arranged in the Society Hall for
those who chose to go there; some preferred the
bowery as the coolest place, others hied to some
of the numerous shade trees, that spread their
cooling branches near by. It was joyous confusion,
and all went merry as a marriage bell. Families
and friends grouped together in a kind-of-do-as-
you-please style, and all acknowledged that there
was much enjoyment to be reaped from a genuine
picnic.
	Quite a number of our Lamanite brethren and
sisters from the Papage Ward were present by
invitation, and enjoyed it immensely, especially
the picnic part of it. They were dressed clean
and neat, and behaved with great decorum.
	We met again in the afternoon at the call of the
Union Brass Band, when more songs and recita-
tions were rendered by members of the Primary
in a very creditable manner. A song by Mother
Everett, who is seventy-eight years of age, brought
down the house; also a song by the Sunday
School choir, entitled, "The Picnic," was beauti-
fully rendered. I almost forgot to mention the
beautiful singing of our native brethren and sisters.
They sang from the Latter-day Saints' Hymn Book,
under the direction of Sister Thankful Harmon,
who certainly deserves great credit, and has reason
to feel proud of her choir. They have sweet,
musical voices, bass, alto and tenor; each part is
rendered harmoniously, without any clashing. At
five o'clock dancing for the children, in the even-
ing for adults.
	Everything passed off pleasantly. Some
strangers who were present were heard to say it
was the most sociable, enjoyable affair of the kind
they had ever witnessed.		S. M.


