[Vol42 | December 1955 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Fiction | Title: Bells | Author: Montgomery]
'Ihere were bells, Santa Clauses, stars, and Christmas trees. Plain cookies and cookies iced with sugar frosting and colored sprinkles. Brandy circled the table delightedly. Mrs. Woodland's usually serene face was flushed. There was a streak of flour on one side of her chin, and a wisp of damp hair hung in a curl in the middle of her forehead. She shoved a pan of cookies quickly into the oven and started the hot water into the dishpan. "You two are the answer to a mother's prayer!'' she exclaimed, measuring soap into the dish water. "I need more hands today. Dad set up the crib in the spare room, and brought the high chair up from the basement. He even helped frost the cookies, but he's given up. I've a meeting at two, and I must get this mess cleaned up." "Let me wash!" Cora May said eagerly, reaching for the dish cloth. "No, indeed." Mrs. Woodland eyed Cora May. "That's the most adorable blouse I ever saw, and, if 810 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 you splash it, you'll ruin it." She bustled out of the room and came back with an apron for Cora May. "Tll wash, and you and Paul dry, and maybe I will get done today." Between the three of them, they made quick work of the dishes. Brandy was content at the breakfast room window with two cookies of his own choosing, and a delightful view of the cedar waxwings that cavorted with crumbs, and suet around the bird table in the back garden. Cora May spread long strips of wax paper and a thin white cloth over the cookies on the table while Paul swept the floor. Funny, she thought, I don't feel so awkward here today. It's more like home. "Go in and talk to Dad for a few minutes," Mrs. Woodland suggested. "I'll hurry and I can ride over to the chapel with you." Cora May reached around to untie the sashes of the apron. She felt a warm hand close over hers, and then Paul's arms were around her, his lips tender against her temple. "Now I've got you!' He chuckled as he tied a series of knots in her apron strings, "All tied up in my kitchen where you belong!" Cora May raised her face to Paul, her eyes star-bright with happiness. And then—the kiss, different somehow from the goodnight kisses they had known before. A _ kiss that asked a question. "Hey," Paul said, his mouth curved in a smile, and his eyes tender with love, "I got the cart before the horse. 'That was supposed to be our first engagement kiss." She saw the first exquisite flash of the small diamond as he opened a small box. Dreamily she watched as he fitted it on her engagement finger, and his lips sealed the vow. "How about the second engagement kiss?" Mutely, she offered her mouth again, her hands clinging against his wide shoulders. "Well!" Brandy's voice broke the spell, "you ought to be in the movies. 'That was just like." "Not quite." Paul's arms let her go unwillingly. "If this were the. Movies I'd be on my knees and Cora May would say 'this is so sudden.' " Their laughter pealed through the kitchen. "What are you up to?" Mr. Woodland called from the living room. CORA May removed the apron after a brief tussle with the knots. Half shyly she went with Paul to his father. "Just getting engaged, is all," Paul answered his father's question. He pulled Cora May into the living room, holding her left hand out for his father to see. "Well! It's about time!" Cora May watched, startled, as Mr. Woodland jumped to his feet. "I'm sure, Cora May, that Paul inherits his good taste from me." A flush crept over Cora May's neck and face as Mr. Woodland gave her a kiss on the cheek. Mrs. Woodland came in to hear the news and add her congratulations. Cora May was almost breathless with excitement. "Now that you're practically in the family I can impose on you, THE SCARLET CLOAK OF LOVE Cora May," Mrs. Woodland said, laughing. "I still have to finish packing this one box to give to a family in need. Will you help me, dear?" "Can Paul and I help?" Mr. Woodland called as they left the room. "You can help best by staying there," his wife teased. ""Anyway, this is woman's work!" Cora May sat on a low slipper chair in the bedroom while Mrs. Woodland rummaged _ through drawers and closets. At last the box was almost full. Mrs. Woodland spread a piece of newspaper across the top to protect the clothing underneath, and packed several pairs of. Shoes atop the paper. She stood a minute with the last pair cupped in her hand. There was a soft, tremulous look about her mouth as Cora May watched. "Somehow I always hate to part with a pair of shoes," she said softly, and then she giggled like a young gitl, "It reminds me of something that happened when Dad and I were courting. We went to a dance one night. My sister and a boy named Delbert Brown were with us. When we danced, Sis and Del sat in the car. When Sis and Del danced, we sat in the car. It was all part of a plan that Sis and I had worked out very carefully. And everything went fine until intermission when the boys wanted to go in for punch and cookies. Then we had to tell them that we were taking turns with one pair of shoes. I thought I'd die of shame, but Dad told me later that it was the first 811 time he realized how much he loved me." She wrinkled her nose, and she and Cora May laughed. 'Then she whirled to the closet for one last look. "T wonder,' the older woman said with a thoughtful look on her face, "would I ever dare to wear this coat? I feel guilty every time I look at it. I couldn't resist it at the January coat sales last winter. Even though I knew that it was far too youthful for me, that tag marked down half price was too much temptation." Cora May looked at the coat, and her hand went out of its own volition to stroke the soft, silky nap of the wool. It was a lovely garment, bright scarlet with deep cuffs and a luxurious stand-up collar. It was almost more than Cora May could bear to think of it going into the box when she needed a coat so badly. I'I'H a wrench, Cora May tore her eyes away from the beautiful wrap. She mustn't just sit here looking so hungrily at it. To cover her longing and confusion she turned back and began to fold paper across the top of the box. Someone else would wear the coat. Someone who needed it as badly as she. "Cora May!" Mrs. Woodland sounded excited, and when Cora May looked up she saw the older woman measuring her with her eyes. "Stand up, dear, maybe you could wear the coat!" In a moment Cora May was enfolded in luxurious soft warmth. "It was made for you!" Mrs. Woodland exclaimed. "You must 812 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 have it. Even if you don't need it. Then I won't feel so guilty about making such an unwise purchase." Remembering the story Mrs. Woodland had told her about the shoes, Cora May suddenly knew that she needn't ever pretend in front of her again. "Don't feel that [''m doing you a favor," she said with tears of gratitude in her eyes. "I've been just desperate for a coat." Mrs. Woodland laughed softly, "We've done each other a favor!" She called Paul to take the box out to the car, and when Paul looked at Cora May in the new coat, he whistled loud and long. "Sure glad [ve got strings on you,' he said, "or someone might steal you away." "You go along, now," his mother said, "and get the car warmed up. I just have to change my shoes and get my wraps. Oh, yes, and comb my hair a little." Brandy bounced on the front seat between Paul and Cora May, eager to see Santa. Paul looked over at Cora May with such an adoring expression on his face that she lowered her eyes in confusion. It was then that she noticed her feet. Her boots! "Forgot my boots. Ill be right back." She slipped out of the car and ran across the driveway. She let herself in quietly, picked up the boots, and leaned against the wall tugging them on. The soles of her loafers were slightly damp, and the heels caught stubbornly against the lining of the boots. Suddenly, poised like a stork on one leg, her busy hands halted in midair, Cora May found herself eavesdropping without meaning to. "Pm so happy for Paul. But I'm just as happy for me, too,' Mrs. Woodland was saying. "Now I know why I bought that coat! I never had a daughter of my own to buy for. I knew that coat was too young and frivolous for me when I saw it, but I couldn't resist it. I must have bought it for my daughter, and now my daughter has it! Isn't she a darling?" She hurried into the kitchen, saw Cora May, and her face went pink. Cora May could feel the heat in her own face. "Now see what I've done!" Mrs. Woodland cried. "You've already caught me talking about you, but I don't care. It's no secret that I love you very much." They ran out to the car, laughing merrily, and as Paul backed out of the driveway Cora May heard Brandy say in a plaintive voice, "When are we going to see Sandy Clause?" Cora May patted his cheek and dropped a kiss on the tip of his freckled nose. She ran her slender fingers under the collar of the new coat and pressed it lovingly against her flushed cheeks. "We'll take you to see Santa right now, darling!" she exclaimed, as she and Mrs. Woodland exchanged significant winks. "I think I've already seen him."