[Vol42 | December 1955 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: The Joy | Author: Scott]
[The Joy of Giving Elsie Scott]

And after that, they have claim upon the church, or in other words upon the Lord's storehouse, if their parents have not wherewith to give them inheritances. And the storehouse shall be kept by the consecrations of the church; and widows and orphans shall be provided for, as also the poor (D. & C. 83:1-6). That revelation was given April 30, 1832, during the time the United Order was in operation in Zion—that is, in Missouri. 'This was over two years before the revelation given at Fishing River, which suspended the operation of the United Order. The present great Welfare Plan measurably meets the requirements of this revelation. And then, finally, I come to the great revelation that was given on May 6, 1833. 'The First Presidency had recently been organized, and the Lord spoke to the First Presidency and to the bishop of Kurtland. I am going to read to you what he said to them: But I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth. But verily I say unto you, my servant Frederick G. Williams, you have continued under this condemnation; You have not taught your children light and truth, according to the commandments; and that wicked one hath power, as yet, over you, and this is the cause of your affliction (D. & C. 93:40-42). 799 I want you to note that declaration: failure to teach and bring up your family in the right way may lead to afflictions. It brought them to Frederick G. Williams. And now a commandment I give unto you—if you will be delivered you shall set in order your own house, for there are many things that are not mght in your house (D. & C. 93:43). To deliver ourselves from affliction, we must set our houses in order. The Lord then speaks to Sidney Rigdon: Verily, I say unto my servant Sidney Rigdon, that in some things he hath not kept the commandments concerning his children; therefore, first set in order thy house (D. & C. 93:44). Again, is the command our houses must be set in order. Then the Lord speaks to the Prophet Joseph, himself. I have always felt that this revelation was one evidence of the integrity and truthfulness of Joseph; he does not hesitate to record a reproof to himself. "Verily, I say unto my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., or in other words, I will call you friends'— the Lord does not wish them to understand that he is chastizing too severely, he is pointing out the way to obtain blessings — "for you are my friends, and ye shall have an inheritance with me—TI called you servants for the world's sake, and ye are their servants for my sake" (D. & C. 93:45-46). I call your attention to the lofty concept voiced — in this sentence. The Lord continues: 800 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1955 And now, verily I say unto Joseph Smith, Jun.—You have not kept the commandments, and must needs stand rebuked before the Lord; Your family must needs repent and forsake some things, and give more earnest heed unto your sayings, or be removed out of their place. What I say unto one I say unto all; pray always lest that wicked one have power in you, and remove you out of your place (D. & C. 93:47-49). If we do not live as the Lord commands, we shall be removed "out of our place." Finally, to the bishop of Kirtland, the Lord addresses words of reproof and counsel: My servant Newel K. Whitney also, a bishop of my church, hath need to be chastened, and set in order his family, and see that they are more diligent and concerned at home, and pray always, or they shall be removed out of their place (D. & C. 93:50). Once more, the command to set our homes in order. These, so far as I have seen, are among the essential commandments that have been given in our day regarding children. They clearly set forth the duties of parents to children, the position of children in the kingdom of God, and with equal clearness set forth that these children are ours to be cared for by us. Now, may I add just a word or two to what I have already said. Always remember the devil is not asleep, nor is he dead. I wonder if you have considered, I know you have, the problems, the new problems which you of this generation now meet. There comes into the home of every one of you, practically, by radio, or by television, or both, and in the movies, at the theaters, words and pictures whereby your children have presented to them all of the allurements of the idle life, the life of the idle rich. Pictured in the finest pictures that can be made are the so-called pleasures of that life. Your children see and hear all these things. Hour after hour they listen to or see, or both, the criminal side of our society. Do you appreciate that they are receiving an education in crime? Radio, television particularly, pictures out great criminal incidents happening in our daily lives. Small children today know far more about crime and the way it is committed and how it is planned and how the law may be evaded and the criminals escape, than most of us who are mature. I grant you that usually the end of the picture or radio story brings its moral, the guilty criminal meets his punishment, but in the meanwhile every child has seen what that criminal has done up to t