[Vol42 | December 1955 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Berry]
[POETRY When Earth Recalls — Frontispiece Alice Morrey Bailey 787 "Christmas Hope," by Catherine E. Berry]
Objective:  To  weigh  and  consider  the  personalities  and  poetry  of  three  poets  (Hous- 
man, Henley,  and  Masefield)  that  we  might  better  appreciate  and  understand  ourselves 
and  our  world. 
Permission  for  reprinting:  Excerpts  from  the  poems  "With  rue  my  heart  is  lad- 
en ..  .  ."  from  a  Shropshire  Lad;  and  "I  did  not  lose  my  heart  in  summer's  even  .  .  .  ." 
from  More  Poems,  by  Alfred  Edward  Housman,  quoted  from  the  text  The  Literature  oi 
England,  volume  II,  by  Woods,  Watt,  and  Anderson,  are  reprinted  in  this  lesson  by  the 
kind  permission  of  Henry  Holt  &  Company,  Inc,  New  York.  The  general  board  of  Re- 
lief Society  is  very  grateful  for  this  permission. 
A.  E.  Housman,  1859-1936   (Text, 
pp.  909-918) 
TN  1859,  Alfred  Edward  Housman 
was  born  at  Focksbury,  a  scat- 
tered hamlet  in  western  England 
not  far  from  Shropshire  and  Wales 
where  his  father  was  a  sohcitor 
(lawyer).  His  love  of  rural  Eng- 
land was  always  strong  within  him, 
as  his  best-loved  book  of  poems  The 
Shropshire  Lad  (1896)  reveals  with 
restrained  power  in  such  lines  as: 
Clunton  and  Clunbury, 
Clungunford  and  Clun 
Are  the  quietest  places 
Under  the  sun. 
Young  Housman  learned  well  the 
lessons  of  nature,  for  the  qualities 
of  silence,  reserve,  and  pure  un- 
adorned understatement  of  truth, 
as  he  saw  it,  w^ere  characteristics 
both  of  his  poetry  and  of  his  life  as 
one  of  the  most  eminent  Latin 
scholars  of  Europe.  As  Keats  re- 
minds   us,    ''Heard    melodies    are

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
849 
sweet,  but  those  unheard  are  sweet- 
er" ("Ode  on  a  Grecian  Urn"). 
Surely,  one  great  reason  why  Hous- 
man's  few  poems  rank  high  among 
the  purest  and  most  perfect  lyrics 
ever  written,  was  because  of  his  ex- 
quisite ability  to  hear  more  between 
his  most  carefully  chosen  words 
than  the  words  themselves  say.  Pure 
poetry  has  never  been  purer  than  in 
Housman. 
His  Life 
The  outward  events  of  his  life  can 
be  told  in  a  paragraph,  so  sparse 
and  few  are  they.  At  the  age  of
