[Vol42 | December 1955 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Poem | Title: Carol | Author: Leitner]
["Carol," by Dorothy J. Roberts, 834. "The Greater Part," by Delta Adams Leitner]
Gay  carol  singers  walk  in  untracked  snow; 
Their  voices  with  the  Christmas  chimes  unite. 
Through  the  long  corridor  of  cherished  years, 
Love  keeps  his  birthday  ever  green  and  bright.

cJhe    viyords  of  (^hnstmas 
TN  our  hurried  ways  of  life  and  in 
the  multipHcity  of  our  duties,  it 
is  seldom  that  we  find  time  for 
quiet  contemplation,  for  the  devel- 
opment of  complete  thoughts  and 
satisfying  spiritual  growth.  Even  at 
Christmas  time,  when  of  all  seasons, 
we  should  feel  near  to  our  Heavenlv 
Father,  and  to  Jesus,  our  Lord,  we 
seem  more  than  ever  to  be  involved 
in  many  small  affairs  which  perhaps 
cannot  be  resolved  into  a  unified 
circle  of  understanding  and  enlight- 
enment. We  fail  fully  to  compre- 
hend the  wonder  and  the  glory  of 
mortal  life,  and  the  treasures  of 
eternity  which  are  awaiting  those 
who  have  received  the  words  of 
Jesus  and  who  have  patterned  their 
lives  according  to  those  eternal 
teachings. 
It  is  most  satisfying  each  Christ- 
mas to  read  again  the  ancient  Cos- 
pels,  the  precious  words  which  have 
illuminated  the  centuries.  It  is  well 
to  become  familiar  with  the  treas- 
ured narratives  of  Matthew,  Mark, 
Luke,  and  John— to  learn  of  their 
everlasting  messages,  of  their  wit- 
ness of  the  gospel,  and  their  ac- 
counts of  the  earthly  life  of  Jesus 
of  Nazareth. 
Each  narrator  portrays  in  great 
simplicity,  and  with  the  shining 
words  of  truth,  the  Christmas  story, 
and  explains  the  significance  of  the 
birth  in  Bethlehem  and  the  life  of 
Jesus  upon  the  earth.  All  the  ac- 
counts should  be  read  over  and  over 
again  until  they  become  a  part  of 
our  lives.  For,  as  Luke  tells  us: 
Forasmuch  as  many  have  taken  in  hand 
to  set  forth  in  order  a  declaration  of  those 
things    which    are  most    surely    believed 
among  us, 
Even  as  they  delivered  them  unto  us, 
which  from  the  beginning  were  eyewit- 
nesses, and  ministers  of  the  word  (Luke 
1:1-2). 
Thus,  we  have  the  sacred  Gospels 
of  the  New  Testament— the  words 
of  Christmas,  which  are  for  all  peo- 
ple in  all  the  eras  of  time. 
Matthew  mentions  the  wise  men 
and  their  star— illumined  quest 
across  the  wilderness;  the  gifts  of 
gold  and  frankincense  and  myrrh- 
precious  commodities  and  treasures 
of  the  world;  the  flight  into  Egypt; 
and  the  return  when  Joseph  and 
Mary  and  Jesus  '\  .  .  turned  aside 
into  the  parts  of  Galilee.'' 
Mark  writes  of  the  preparatory 
mission  of  John  the  Baptist  and 
then  proceeds  directly  to  the  min- 
istry of  Jesus  and  the  calling  of  the 
disciples. 
Now  as  he  walked  by  the  sea  of  Galilee, 
he  saw  Simon  and  Andrew  his  brother 
casting  a  net  into  the  sea:  for  they  were 
fishers. 
And  Jesus  said  unto  them,  Come  ye 
after  me,  and  I  will  make  you  to  become 
fishers  of  men  (Mark  1:16-17). 
Luke,  in  words  that  glow  in 
beauty  through  the  years,  tells  the 
story  of  Zacharias  and  Elisabeth, 
the  parents  of  John  the  Baptist,  and 
their  relationship  to  Mary  of  Naza- 
reth, for  as  Zacharias  explained,  the 
mission  of  John  would  be,  "To  give 
light  to  them  that  sit  in  darkness 
and  in  the  shadow  of  death,  to 
guide  our  feet  into  the  way  of 
peace"   (Luke  1:79). 
Page  819

820  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— DECEMBER  1955 
It  is  to  Luke  that  we  are  indebted  Thus  we  have  the  Christmas 
for  the  pastoral  scene  o£  the  shep-  words  —  the  four  great  Gospels  — 
herds  in  the  hill  country,  ''keeping  the  everlasting  witnesses  for  the  life 
watch  over  their  flock  by  night"—  of  Jesus  and  his  sacrifice  for  the 
the  precious  story  which  should  be  world.  The  Christmas  story  is  not 
read  to  all  children  as  a  part  of  the  ended  with  the  wise  men  on  the 
remembrance  of  Christmas.  And  to  desert  path,  nor  with  the  shepherds 
Luke,  also,  we  are  grateful  for  the  on  the  hills  roundabout  Bethlehem; 
words  which  have  a  deep  and  sacred  it  is  not  concluded  with  the  man- 
meaning  for  mothers:  ''But  Mary  ger  scene  and  the  gifts  of  gold  and 
kept  all  these  things,  and  pondered  frankincense  and  myrrh;  nor  can  the 
them  in  her  heart."  Christmas  words  be  ended  with  the 
The  final  Gospel  -  the  words  of  flight  ii^to  Egypt,  nor  the  return  of 
John  -  begins    with    the    mission  ^^^  i^^j    ^^^-^    ^^  ^^^^-^  ^^^-^^  ^-^^^ 
of  John  the  Baptist  who  'came  for  ^j^^  Christmas  words  are  the  words 
a  witness     and  proclaimed:     1  am  r  .i      r>        i     •     j-i,  •             i  i. 
^1         .       r              •      •    ri,        ij  of  the  Gospels  in  their  complete- 
the  voice  or  one  cryin2  in  the  wilder-  i-       .       ^^     ■        -.          i 
ness,  Make  straight  the  way  of  the  ""^'l  speaking  m  all  sinceri  y  and 
Lord  ...  r    The  meeting  of  John  truth   of  the  birth   in   Bethlehem, 
and   Jesus   is   related   in   matchless  the    sacred   ministry,   the   sacrifice, 
simplicity:  ".  .  .  The  next  day  John  and  the  gift  of  eternal  hfe. 
seeth  Jesus  coming  unto  him."  —V.  P.  C. 
cJhe  y^oy  of  (giving 
Elsie  Scott 
i'^'TjAPPINESS,"  I  read,  "is  the  joy  of  giving."  But  I  have  no  woddly  goods.  I  must 
•^  ^  go,  then,  to  my  spiritual  treasure  chest  and  seek  something  to  give,  for  I  would 
be  happy.  Ah,  yes,  here  are  a  friendly  smile  and  a  cheery  word.  They  will  be  just  the 
right  gifts  for  the  lady  at  the  corner  of  the  road.  She  is  lonely  and  appears  to  have 
no  relatives  or  friends. 
What  have  we  here?  A  helping  hand  for  the  crippled  old  man  across  the  road. 
He,  too,  lives  alone,  and  is  very  proud,  so  I  must  help  him  in  such  a  way  that  his  feel- 
ings will  not  be  hurt.  Perhaps  a  jar  of  jam  and  a  batch  of  cakes  and  pies,  would  be  ac- 
cepted. 
Have  I  anything  for  the  children  left  without  a  father?  Why,  of  course,  a  picnic. 
All  children  love  a  picnic,  and  their  mother  must  work  so  hard  for  their  support,  she 
seldom  goes-  out,  and  never  without  them.  So,  if  I  take  the  children  for  a  day,  she 
will  be  able  to  rest.  I  will  ask  my  friend  by  the  sea  to  have  her  as  a  guest  for  a  few 
days  while  I  care  for  the  children.    She  needs  a  holiday. 
My  spiritual  treasure  chest  is  so  filled  with  smiles,  kind  thoughts,  and  good  deeds, 
there  is  enough  for  everyone  I  know.  I  am  rich,  and  what  happiness  I  gain  just  by 
givingi