[Vol42 | December 1955 | Sequence: 11 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Pickering]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Margaret C. Pickering]
oJhe  [Price  of  a   diair-do 
Ruth  I.  Devereaux 
IT  was  a  blustery  afternoon  and  Neil  seemed  to  earry  part  of  the  atmospheric  condi- 
tion in  with  him.     Not  only  in  the  way  he  bounded  into  the  house,  but  also  in 
the  way  he  blurted  out,  "Gee,  Mom,  do  you  think  I  could?" 
"Do  I  think  you  could,  what?"  his  mother  answered,  "and  please  close  the  door 
before  the  house  is  full  of  dust." 
"You  remember,"  Neil  continued  hurriedly,  "what  we  were  discussing  last  night 
about  my  taking  private  trumpet  lessons  and  you  said,  we'd  see."  He  paused  for  an 
answer,  but  as  none  was  forthcoming  he  anxiously  tried  another  angle.  "I  found  out 
that  Mr.  Mayes  does  teach  privately,  and  he  just  lives  through  the  block  and  he  only 
charges  $2.50  a  lesson!"  His  enthusiasm  had  reached  its  peak,  and  he  nervously  viewed 
his  mother's  face. 
The  answer  was  still  pending,  but  now  Mother  was  actually  thinking  ....  and 
Neil  continued,  "I  thought  maybe  if  I  had  a  few  lessons  I  might  be  able  to  make  first 
chair  in  the  band  this  year."  His  voice  drawled  out  into  a  pleading  tone,  and  his  fore- 
head acquired  that  odd  little  wrinkle  above  one  eye  which  was  characteristic  of  trying 
to  be  grown  up  over  a  situation  about  which  he  wanted  so  much  to  burst  into  tears. 
And  Mother  was  really  thinking.  She  knew  how  much  he  had  wanted  to  be 
first  chair  trumpet.  She  knew  how  he  always  wanted  to  be  first  in  everything.  She 
also  knew  that  the  teacher  was  a  good  one  and  was  a  neighbor,  but  what  Mother  was 
really  weighing  in  her  mind  was  the  $2.50  item.  How  could  she  manage  it?  That 
much  more  out  of  the  food  budget  and  they'd  be  practically  living  on  beans.  It 
seemed  that  there  had  been  so  many  things  lately,  the  new  roof  had  cost  more  than 
they  had  planned,  school  would  soon  be  starting,  and  there  were  clothes  to  buy  for  all 
three  children  .  ,  .  and  then  it  came  to  her! 
Oh,  no,  not  that!  For  years  she  had  dreamed  of  the  time  when  she  could  go  to 
the  beauty  parlor  to  have  her  hair  done.  This  was  an  extravagance  she  had  never  af- 
forded before,  but  she  had  finally  convinced  herself  that  she  just  couldn't  do  anything 
with  her  hair;  that  she  owed  it  to  herself;  and  so  on  ...  .  Her  weekly  appointments  had 
begun  two  months  ago,  and  it  had  seemed  like  heaven  to  go  and  relax  while  someone 
else  did  the  task  she  had  dreaded  each  week. 
But  as  she  weighed  the  item  in  question  with  the  fervent  plea  of  a  son  with 
music  in  his  heart — gradually  the  scales  favored  the  request  and  Mother  graciously 
replied,  "You  may  call  Mr.  Mayes  and  see  if  he  has  a  time  for  you." 
"Gee,  Mom,  you're  swell,"  Neil  beamed.  I'll  call  him  right  now,  and  I  promise 
to  practice  hard."  He  gave  his  mother  a  quick  squeeze  and  a  kiss  on  the  cheek  before 
dashing  into  the  other  room  to  telephone. 
That  all  happened  six  months  ago.  School  began,  and  just  as  Neil  had  promised, 
he  practiced  hard.  In  fact,  he  practiced  so  hard  that  occasionally  it  seemed  that  the 
walls  of  the  house  might  give  way  under  the  volume,  and,  at  times,  his  mother  felt  as 
if  her  ears  could  bear  no  more.  However,  she  quietly  concealed  her  feelings  and 
gradually,  day  by  day,  the  notes  became  softer  and  sweeter,  and,  before  long,  tuneful 
melodies  filled  each  crevice  of  the  house.  At  school,  Neil  had  gained  his  coveted  po- 
sition in  the  band. 
But  tonight,  his  being  first  chair  trumpet  seemed  to  have  lost  its  significance. 
Discordant  notes  were  long  since  forgotten.  Here  in  the  crowded  chapel  on  Christmas 
Eve,  Neil  raised  his  gleaming  trumpet  to  his  lips.  His  father  proudly  played  the  organ 
interlude,  and  the  majestic  tones,  "Hark,  the  herald  angels  sing,  glory  to  the  new-born 
King,"  were  echoed  throughout  the  building.  Deep  in  Neil's  mother's  heart,  nothing 
else  seemed  to  matter  now.  No  sacrifice  could  have  been  too  great,  least  of  all  .  .  . 
the  price  of  a  hair-do. 
Page  836

From  The  Field 
Margaret  C.  PicJcering,  General  Secretary-Treasurer 
All  material  submitted  for  publication  in  this  department  should  be  sent  through 
stake  and  mission  Relief  Society  presidents.  See  regulations  governing  the  submittal 
of  material  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  in  the  Magazine  for  April  1950,  page  278,  and 
the  Handbook  of  Instructions,  page  123. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  ACTIVITIES 
Photograph  submitted  by  Ada  S.  Van  Dam 
NETHERLANDS   MISSION  HANDICRAFT  DISPLAY  — 
A  MISSION  WIDE  EVENT 
Standing  at  the  left:  Ada  S.  Van  Dam,  President,  Netherlands  Mission  Relief  So- 
ciety. 
Standing  at  the  right:  Maria  S.  Schippers,  Secretary,  Netherlands  Mission  Relief 
Society. 
In  commenting  upon  this  lovely  display,  Sister  Van  Dam  reports:  "Each  Relief 
Society  in  the  mission  submitted  a  few  of  its  choicest  articles  of  handwork  for  this 
exhibit.  The  workmanship  was  of  the  finest,  and  the  quality  of  material  was  excellent — 
resulting  in  each  article  being  an  outstanding  item.  We  were  extremely  proud  of  these 
articles  which  were  made  by  our  Netherlands  Relief  Society  sisters." 
Page  837