[Vol15 | July 1928 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Elizabeth Mary Clegg Brown Louetta Brown]
ELIZABETH MARY CLEGG BROWN 395
MY MOTHER DEAR
Of all the blessings that I know, And all the friends that come and go, Nor all the sunsets and the flowers And shady nooks and sunny bowers, And all the beauties of the spring Where lilies bloom and wild birds sing, And all the babbling brooks that flow From mountain tops of ice and snow, No?nothing that I see or hear Can take your place?My Mother Dear.
Like a Quiet Stream
By Gwenevere Anderson
Mr. Marsden had driven into Salt Lake City from his pioneer homestead forty miles away to get a new rocking-chair and some sugar. The drive had been a long one, so he stayed over night with some friends. As he was starting for home the next morning, he came to a party of Mormon emigrants who had just arrived from their long journey across the plains. He stopped to speak to their captain, and ask him news of the Saints farther east. As they talked, a little six-year-old girl ran up to the captain and caught hold of his hand. It was then that he told Mr. Marsden this story: The family had set out from Holland to come to Utah for their religion. Mr. and Mrs. Van Dam, the child's parents, had had a pleasant little home in their native Dutch village, and had been happy there with their four children. But their faith called them to give up home and country. Herbert, the oldest boy, was nearly eleven?old enough to help with the younger children on the long voyage. The family parted from their friends and set out on a slow sailing vessel for the new land. The ocean crossed, they started across the plains in wagons drawn by ox-teams. Before many miles had been traveled, Father Van Dam died, and left the young mother to go on alone with the children. How tedious and lonely the journey must have been for her! Ill and exhausted from the hardships encountered and heart-broken by the loss of her husband, she never lived to see the Zion of her faith. Before the plains were crossed, she gave up her life soon after another little girl was born. The other emigrants brought the five children and the aged grandparents with them to Salt Lake City. "We don't know how to provide for the family," the captain
