[Nursing — A Lifetime of Satisfaction by Elaine Mellor]

Nursing—A Lifetime of Satisfaction Elaine Mellor, R. N. Director, Practical Nursing School, Salt Lake Area Vocational School THE little old lady gazed gratefully up at the girl in white and whispered softly, "Thank you, my dear, for making me so comfortable.
Nurses seem to have some 'magic touch.' Now, I feel as if I can rest." The nurse quietly left the room and walked down the long corridor. Mr. Thomas, her next patient, would be waiting for that "magic touch" so that he, too, could get some much-needed rest.
There is something of the nurse in each of us.
Whether it is some intangible desire that has always been in our hearts, or whether it has been gained through years of bandaging skinned knees, each of us desires to be of service—for that is the true spirit of nursing—wanting to take care of people.
Nursing has been chosen by young women of today as one of the leading professions for the person who is seeking a means of preparing herself for a future of security.
Economic security is but one of the many satisfactions to be gained in this field.
There is the satisfaction of independence—of always knowing that you have something to offer—for there will always be sick people and an ever increasing demand for the service which a nurse can give.
There is the satisfaction to be found in the variety offered by the changing daily schedule in the life of the nurse as patients come and leave the hospital.
There is the inner satisfaction of knowing that you are needed and wanted wherever you may choose to live, and in whatever field of nursing you may choose to enter.
Opportunities for employment are many. 'Today's qualified nurse may work in hospitals, doctors' offices, clinics, in homes, industry, and public health. She may prepare for a position as a teacher, supervisor, or administrator.
Nursing is one of the leading professions and maintains its standards by accepting only persons who can meet the qualifications necessary for this type of work.
Such persons are rated upon their ability, interest in people, honesty, good health, adaptability, and dependability.: Today, two levels of nursing service are recognized as essential to maintaining good nursing care.
Girls eighteen to thirty-five, who can meet the academic standards, would do well to investigate the field of professional nursing.
This three or four year education qualifies her as a highly skilled bedside nurse who is able to perform technical types of nursing care and carry on frequently in a supervisory capacity.
Practical nursing is a second level which offers an opportunity in nursing to women eighteen to fifty years of age, who can meet requirements set up by the individual state boards of nurse examiners.
This year of training will prepare women as excellent bedside nurses, who will be able to render less technical types of care to the patient and to act as members of nursing teams. Here, indeed, lies a golden opportunity to prepare for a lifetime of personal satisfaction.
Nursing makes a better wife and mother, a better companion, and a happier individual.
Information regarding the school of nursing of your choice may be obtained through the State Nurses Association. In Utah, contact Utah State Nurses Association Headquarters, Granite Building, 158
East 2nd South, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
For the Unable to locate the specified article in the provided PDF pages. The pages shown contain different articles and do not include any nursing-related content that would complete the truncated text.