[I Love My Little Kitchen by Lydia B. Egbert]

I love my little kitchen The tinkling sound of pots and pans With its cosy atmosphere— Before the dinner call. Oh, there never was a palace That could hold one half the cheer! Oh, I love my little kitchen: From the ceiling to the floor; The shining gold-splashed window From each tiny nook and corner Framed in a cnspy frill, To the hinges on its door. With a potted, red geranium | To make it brighter still; Lord, hallow here my humble shrine, And let each task within The braided mats in colors gay; Be ended with but eagerness The plaques upon the wall; For others to begin. TRIBUTE Tribute to Adele Cannon Howells (Continued from page 382) Though comparatively young in years, Adele Cannon Howells was old in hours. She had lost no time. The distance on life's journey ls marked not by leaves torn from the calendar but by the number of good deeds done. Sister Howells lived by faith. She had faith in her co-workers and faith in her leaders. She had an unwavering faith in the gospel of Jesus Christ. She trusted in her Heavenly Father with all her heart. In all her ways she acknowledged him and he directed her paths. Let's Write a Story (Continued from page 387) a person. Kipling used a mongoose in his deathless "Rikki-tikki Tavi." The hero, or villain, of one best seller was a storm. Plotting is the chain of events upon which the writer proves his characters and his premise. 'The plot should be taken from _ the events in life that test the mettle of the people that live, or from imaginative events within the possibility of reason. It is of no use to tell the reader that our characters are brave, heroic, and ingenious. We must prove it by plots that put their qualities to the test. WHEN the author has chosen and built well thus far, he can assume the pose of the bystander, like a man who has plowed his furrows and built his dams, and now 427 the number of | * * * * * * a * Beautiful 3-Part * ( horuses for, * Womens Vowes* * bg — Beautiful Dreamer --5.16 a By the Waters of Minnetonka.16 —— Dear Land of Home -- _-15 -_ Green Cathedral _ 18 ae I Heard a Forest Praying _.20 — I'll Take You Home Again Kathleen - io | — In the Time " Roses a 3
Let All My Life Be Music 20 en Tree@S __ 2-----nnneeeeneeeee eee 16 = O Entrancing Night 18
Music Sent On Approval WE PAY POSTAGE Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 45-47
South Main Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send postpaid the music indicated | above. [] On Approval []) Charge oP poet Enclosed Name oo ee ceeeee ccc cccecccceceeeeceeecsecessscceeeeceeeseeeesesenseees Address 7 ee eee: City & Stanton eccccecceecee ceecceseceeneneeneene i FIRST OF ALL — RELIABAITY Ly au nes MAIN STREET Vo SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTanM 428 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos KNABE The Piano of the Metropolitan Opera EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built v_-- All Obtainable At Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People | 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH has only to stand by and watch the water irrigate the land. If he turned pigs or molasses into these channels, his purpose would be defeated, but not more so than the author who sets unruly people in weak" plots and has no direction, or premise. All other qualities of the story should be the natural outgrowth of the premise, the characters, and the plot. 'These other elements are: conflict, background, suspense, mood, dialogue, even the final outcome of the story. The dynamics of reactions of one character upon another, against premise and plot, are the conflicts.
Some of those recognized are: man against the elements, man against nature, man against ignorance, man against man, and man against himself. 'The world is full of conflicts  that grip the heart, situations so vital that actual life or death depend upon human decisions, and concepts that will sway for good or evil the eternal spirit of man. 'The discerning author will not be forced to the overplotting and unnatural reactions so prevalent in cheap literature. | Plot and conflict lead to suspense, a powerful tool of writing, for without it the story will have no readers. A newspaper tells the story of an event in the first sentence, even in the headline. It is retold in the first paragraph, told again in more detail in the second, and enlarged upon thereafter. 'This newspaper method reverses all the laws of good story telling, but is necessary be- _ cause a space-making editor or a headline-scanning reader may chop it off any place, and it must be complete. In the short story, interest and curiosity are caught in the "story hook," preferably in the first line, and built up from that small beginning. 'There is a steady rise in emotion, a steady thickening of plot and growing tension toward the climax, which immediately precedes the end of the story. The author must finish off the story in quick and telling strokes after the climax, or his readers will leave him and he has lost the game he has been playing with them. "THE author creates the feeling of authenticity in many ways, causing his reader to identify himself with one of the characters of the story, and feel as familiar in the background as if it were his own.
Sound character analysis, true emotional reactions, natural conversation, the logical order of events, the LET'S WRITE A STORY flow of one situation into another, all further authenticity. The clever author appeals to the five senses, so that the reader hears the waves booming against the cliffs, rustling and hissing among the rocks, smells the rank seaweed and the faint fishiness of the water, feels the rush of it onto. The beach, the sand give way beneath his feet, the pull of the undertow when it > recedes, as well as seeing the lines of breakers ride in to spend themselves against the land.
Take this setting, add a darkening sky, make the windblown seagull be lost against a somber sea, his cry stilled in tempest, and you have mood. Not all published stories have mood, but it is a good tool to engender gaiety, peace, dignity, anger, fright.
These can be brought about by using word families. 'The careful author will not mix his key words, as: ethereal, light, sodden, fairy.
Mood is the music of writing. All that 'has gone before may have been done in the mind of the author or on paper, but only now will he be ready to write.
Good beginnings are striven for, titles carefully chosen, names of places and people worked out to be least confusing and to demand the most arresting attention. A short story will rarely accommodate more than one mood, one pivotal character, or one viewpoint, and will tolerate no excess of words or ideas. A good painter details only the focal point of his painting, and the detail of a short story is given in dialogue and drama.
Dialogue should further the story or not be used.
Speeches should express the character rather than the author. 429
You Women Can be Prepared in time of emergencies your time will be in demand. Prepare yourselves right now for vital office work. Courses are available to you at L. D. S. Business College either day or evening classes.. SUMMER TERM Starts June 4
You're cordially welcome at | 1) BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 NORTH MAIN 'Salt Lake City
IDUUUUQQNQQQQEEOUUUEEOUOQOOUOCEOEREOONOOTOUOUOEREEQUCT TOT EETUOUUET NUE AAAAUUU TNE
Professional and Social Stationery © COMMERCIAL AND EDITION PRINTERS AND BOOK BINDERS PAPER RULING DESERET NEWS PRESS 40
Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah 430 PLAN NOW TO ENROLL - - BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY SUMMER QUARTER First Term: June 11 to July 20
Second Term: July'23 to August 25 SPECIAL FEATURES THIRTEENTH ANNUAL MUSIC FESTIVAL se ae BAND AND ORCHESTRA CLINI FAMILY LIFE INSTITUTE LECTURES—CONCERTS—RECITATIONS A broad offering of Graduate and Undergraduate courses will be taught by the strong B. Y. U. Faculty augmented by Visiting Specialists. An added feature this year will be Leadership Week, which will be held in conjunction with Summer School. Write the Y Press for a Summer School Catalog BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO. UTAH Wlusic oe @ FOR RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS Lord Is My Shepherd S. S. A. Unto Thee I Lift Mine Eyes S. S. A. O Shepherd of Israel S. S. A. A. O Day of Rest and Gladness S. S. A. Dear Land of Home Father Most Merciful He That Keepeth Israel Hear My Prayer How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings I Will Thank Thee O Lord My Soul Is Athirst For God If You Love Me, Keep My Commandments If With All Your Hearts GLEN BROS. MUSIC CO. 74
South Main Street _.. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 
Flash dialogue can break the heaviness of long paragraphs, pages of solid print, but a continued use of it to point up unimportant phases of the story has a slowing effect. Dialogue and drama bring the long range picture of our story into focus, and should be saved for the three to five scenes—not more— that we shall use. Let us write with a feeling for structure and balance, getting who, what, where, and when in the first paragraph. Let us glean technique from every source and perfect the master stroke in writing, for the increasing demand for shorter stories is a challenge to the author. If our story has touched laughter to that ring of faces, released the tension of emotion, or added joy to living, we are vindicated. If it has added richness, delineated a new truth, or provoked thought, it has served. A worthy purpose.