[Let's Write a Story by Alice Morrey Bailey]

Let's Write a Story Alice Morrey Bailey HEN the first campfire lit a ring of listening faces the short story as a means of creative expression and aesthetic satisfaction was established. The printed page has widened that ring and preserved great stories from the foundation of the world. The fascination of story-telling grips everyone, from the very young child to the old man reliving his life in reminiscence. Self-expression is not sufficient justification for writing a_ short story; its purpose is to strengthen or entertain the reader. Let us choose a purpose and take the first step: find out what it is we really wish to say. 'The determination of this destination has many names: story idea, root idea, theme, thesis, goal, aim, driving force, to name a few. Old-fashioned writers called it the "moral" and tacked it on the end of fables for the benefit of readers who might have missed it in the story. One competent teacher calls this premlS€. Premise, according to the dictionary, iS a proposition previously stated or assumed as leading to a conclusion, antecedently supposed or proved; a basis of argument. If the premise of our story cannot be summed up in a sentence, such as "Pride goeth before a fall," "Violent living brings violent death," "A fool and his money are soon parted," it is not a good story. The clever writer conceals his premise in fine writing, never setting it out in so many words, but proving it with subtlety and drama, assuming that the intelligence of his readers is at least equal to his own.
Nothing pleases a reader so much as finding a hidden truth which he thinks might have escaped everyone else, including the author. A good premise is the skeleton upon which to hang the flesh and blood of character and plot. The characters for our stories cannot be made up_ without thought. We must know their backgrounds, the physical make-up, the ancestry, and the sociology and religion that have colored their thinking. We must know their psychology, age, health, and the type of work they do.
Whether we put these into the story or not, they will direct the actions and conversations of the characters and reveal them as personalities.
Perhaps a person met with in real life is such a one as to suggest premise and plot to an author. If so, there is danger in portraying him. If too faithfully done, harm may result to him or his family and the author will be promptly and thoroughly sued. He should be disguised and firmly transplanted. On the other hand, the author who draws too much from his imagination runs the same danger as the artist who uses no models; his characters may be all glorified replicas of himself. We must select or create our characters, select a pivotal personality, and surround him with those who will react against him to the advantage of the story.
Maybe our central or pivotal character is not (Continued on page 427)  T an institute on gerontology (study of the aging) held in the Union Building of the University of Utah in April, Mrs. Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, gave a talk as a representative of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints on the work and care for the aging. Her explanation was very well received by the audience and by Dr. Robert J. Havighurst, eminent national figure in sociology, particularly in gerontology, and guest-lecturer for the institute week. HE first Sunday in June is observed in many states as "Shutin's Day." 'This type of service is part of the general program of Relief Society and members make visits to the homebound throughout the year. HE Daughters of Utah Pioneers on April 7th, celebrated the fiftieth anniversary of the birth of their organization, April 11, 1901.
Especially honored were the three surviving charter members: Mary Schwartz Smith (widow of President Joseph F. Smith), Rosannah Cannon (Mrs. Alonzo Blair) Irvine, and Rachel Grant (Mrs. John H.) Taylor. In February the "Daughters" entertained both legis -
Ramona W. Cannon lative bodies at a luncheon as an expression of appreciation for the financial help received from them toward the erection of their new building.
MRS. JOHN C. SWENSON, of Provo, Utah's Mother of the Year, has spent much of her time for the last seven years in assisting her eighty-year-old blind neighbor,
Mrs. Fannie Patton, in the work of converting into Braille type choice selections of literature and religious writings. Mrs. Swenson, mother of nine children, is the wife of Professor Emeritus John C. Swenson of Brigham Young University, and the couple still live in the home which they entered as bride and groom fifty- two years ago. A successful teacher for many years, Mrs.
Swenson still acts as a special tutor for children and young people in music and reading.
TyiRS. MARY T. MARTIN
X l SLOOP, of Crossmore, North
Carolina, a seventy-seven-year-old doctor, known as "the grand lady of the Blue Ridge" for her work with mountain children, has received the honor of "American
Mother of 1951." She is the wife of a country doctor and the mother of a son and a daughter, both doctors.
Page 389

EDITORJA
VOL. 38
JUNE 1951
NO. 6
3he m essiag of VUork
"rPHE night cometh when no man can work." This caution was given by the Lord to his disciples. If kept ever in mind, then the need to do required work at an appointed hour becomes acceptable, as the realization grows that time never returns to offer again this precise moment for a given work.
With passing time come new tasks.
"Work is the scythe of time," wrote Napoleon as he contemplated years of living in exile, cut off from the stream of life, and planned work which would engross him to the exclusion of crawling days and months and years.
Young mothers recognize the truth of Napoleon's comment.
There never seems to be sufficient time for their innumerable tasks to be done in each twenty-four hours. And yet a mother's satisfaction increases in proportion as she perfects herself in her work, as she plans her work so as to include also the work of teaching and training her children. She discovers that in experiences involving worry, regret, or sorrow, that work wears a comforting face, that it is a solace to her to work with her hands. A burden becomes lightened as it is leavened with physical or even mental work. Finally, to the mother forced to lie in bed and see her household disrupted by her inactivity, comes the final recognition of the ability to work as a blessing
Page 390 and a privilege. Work no longer is something to battle and conquer, work is a necessity to her feeling of fulfillment.
The pressure of work, moreover, grows less through application.
However monotonous or distasteful certain work appears to be, through earnest effort and an acknowledgment of its necessity, it becomes at first less distasteful and, in time, even enjoyable.
The gospel plan offers work to be done throughout life. Valued service suited to the physical condition of an individual may be always engaged in, and there is no arbitrary age beyond which service is not accepted. The plan of salvation recognizes that the spirit is eternal and, change as time will the outer shell— this mortal body— the spirit remains young and forwardlooking— only refined by wisdom and understanding as it is schooled by the years.
Charles Kingsley wrote:
Thank God every morning when you get up that you have something to do that day which must be done, whether you like it or not. Being forced to work, and forced to do your best, will breed in you temperance and self-control, diligence and strength of will, cheerfulness and content, and a hundred virtues which the idle never know.
Some religions teach of a heaven where angels sit and play harps eternally, of a heaven where in-

EDITORIAL
391 activity reigns. This is contrary to the knowledge of Latter-day Saints.
Heaven means eternal progression, wherein the Lord stated, 'Tor this is my work and my glory, to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man."
God has work to do and he pronounced a blessing upon man in that commandment, "By the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread."
Through the accomplishment of righteous work, man has joy.
Work, and thou wilt bless the day
Ere the toil be done;
They that work not, can not pray,
Can not feel the sun.
God is living, working still,
All things work and move;
Work, or lose the power to will,
Lose the power to love.
— John Sullivan Dwight
-M. C. S. o/n 1 1 le mo nam — ibmma oLucy spates Ujoweri
November 5, 1880— April 30, 1951
Emma Lucy Gates Bowen, granddaughter of President Brigham
Young, and wife of Elder Albert E. B owen, of the Council of the Twelve, died April 30, 1951, in Salt Lake City, Utah. A beautiful and gracious woman, she was richly gifted and greatly loved.

Emma Lucy Gates was born in St. George, Utah, November 5, 1880, a daughter of Jacob F. Gates and Susa Young Gates, and the third in a family of thirteen children. She was proud of her ancestry and of her Church, and during her long public career she always availed herself of every opportunity to serve her people.

Her musical education began at an early age, and when she was six years old she made her vocal debut by singing "Aloha Oe" to its composer, Queen Liliuokalani during the time that Emma Lucy's parents were serving as missionaries in Hawaii. At the age of thirteen, she won first prize in a piano competition in the first Welsh Eisteddfod held in the Salt Lake Tabernacle. When she was seventeen, Emma Lucy went to Europe with her sister Leah and her brother-in-law, Elder John A. Widtsoe, now a member of the Council of the Twelve. In Europe she sang as guest artist in many opera houses and made concert appearances in nearly all the large cities. Later, in the United States, she sang grand opera roles in New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, Seattle, and many other cities. Her unusually rich voice was magnificent in roles ranging from the highest coloratura soprano scores, such as Mozart's "Queen of the Night," to the mezzo-soprano role of "Carmen." As "Utah's First Lady of Music," she was especially honored on October 25, 1948, in the Assembly Hall, Salt Lake City, where she was given an enthusiastic ovation at a "command" performance.

Emma Lucy Gates was married to Elder Albert E. Bowen in 1916. She reared as her own his twin sons whose mother had died at their birth in 1905. Since her husband's appointment to the Council of the Twelve in 1937, Sister Bowen has traveled widely throughout the Church, and is lovingly remembered by Latter-day-Saint women in the stakes and missions.

She has been most liberal with her great gifts and has encouraged and instructed many young musicians whose voices will long be heard, and who owe much of their success to her training and inspiration.

Hers was a great soul—and the testimony of her Savior and the living of the second great commandment were the guiding beacons of her life. The general board of the Relief Society and Relief Society members everywhere, in gratitude for Sister Bowen's life of devotion and service, tender their heartfelt sympathy to Elder Bowen and members of the family. They know that memories of her, and her sweet influence, will continue to enrich their lives and the lives of all who have known and loved Emma Lucy Gates Bowen.(Continued from page 386) poems, though rejected, no doubt possess the germ of quality.
Many have interesting and original viewpoints, but must be returned to their authors because of obvious faults which should not be there.
Sometimes they ignore the simplest rules of construction. If we are to grow and improve the quality of our poetry, we must be critical with our own poems, the judges will need to be.
Whether our idea or emotion is sufficiently matured within the mind and heart that the final phrasing comes very easily, or whether we act immediately upon a sudden poetic impulse and then work and revise later is of little importance. The important thing is that the poem in its final form shall express through careful choice of words and images, the exact emotion we would like to arouse in our readers. T is hoped that many of the women who read this article will want to enter the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. 'The purpose of this article and of those previously printed in the June issues of The Relief Society Magazine, is to encourage our women to express themselves effectively in poetry, and to review some of the points that should be considered. We must be reminded not only of factors that make for good poetry but of weaknesses which should not appear in our poems. We must realize that if an.
Idea is worth expressing in poetry, it is worth the time and effort required to make that idea articulate and the poem structurally sound. If we are interested in poetry enough to want to write, we should be willing to learn something of the technique of writing. No one would consider herself an artist who did not study some phase of art, or a musician who did not acquire some of the techniques of music. Nor would a pianist appear upon a concert program without having first rehearsed over and over the numbers she intends to render. A poem may reach an audience numbering many thousands and may be read and reread and enjoyed over a period of many years.
There are a number of good textbooks on poetry writing which can | be enjoyed. 'They are valuable in teaching the basic requirements of poetry, and in pointing out the details of effective composition and the mistakes which we _ should avoid.
Obvious rhyming makes a poem commonplace and _ uninteresting.
Such rhymes as love and dove, spring and wing, bliss and kiss, desire and fire, have grown stale from overuse. A writer should not use words called poeticisms, such as "tis" "twas," ""gainst," 'neath,' and "bide."
Once these expressions were not considered objectionable, but they are not in good usage today. The literary critic Clement Wood says this: "Your poetry will gain strength, dignity, directness, and beauty if you let it speak the natural language that you and your readers understand." Page 417 418 HE poet should avoid inverting a phrase or line when done for the sake of rhyme or meter.
Consider the following lines: Pines where birds do shelter seek.
Rolled by have the ages. The eyes of the world upon us are. How much more pleasing and ef- - fective these ideas would be if they were expressed through words placed in their natural order. Clement Wood says of this fault: "The best poetic language is the most straightforward." If a certain metrical pattern is begun, there should, of course, be reasonable conformity.
Most people enjoy the sound of words that rhyme if rhyming is not made obvious by the use of trite rhyme words, and all of us are moved more or less by thythm. The discipline that pattern and thyme demand is good for all beginners.
Many beautiful and enduring poems have been written in free verse, but amateurs often find it an easy and lazy road.
Their results are often mere chatter, with little unity and no cadence. It is probably more difficult to make free verse memorable than that written in the traditional forms. If we use this freedom we should be sure that the poem _ possesses thythmic movement; it must in some way sing, or it is prose and not a poem.
Some of the greatest truths and most valuable lessons are taught in poetry, but they are taught more by implication than by direct teaching. All subjects should receive careful attention so that they will not sound  preachy.
Familiar and frequently used subjects, such as motherhood, children, home, and nature, require an original approach in order to make them interesting. The poet should remember this also when dealing with war and _ pioneer themes. It is my opinion that poems submitted to our poetry contests more often fall short of quality because they have been hastily written, and therefore contain many obvious faults that could easily be eliminated, than because of any lack of a worthwhile theme.
This should be encouraging to the woman who writes only occasionally.
Because of this belief I stress the need to go ever the poem carefully before submitting it, and eliminate the obvious faults which will prevent it from placing in the contest, even though the idea involved be fresh and original. 'The author should read her poem aloud, to see if there are awkward or trite words or phrases. She should see that all "poeticisms" are missing.
Then she may ask herself: Have I said what I want to say, or have I sacrificed precious nuances of thought or feeling for the sake of rhyme or meter?
Does my poem speak in phrases that are fresh and in some way a little different? Have I made use of descriptive words and images that will stir the imagination, waken memory, or lead the minds of my readers into new lanes of thought? Is my poem as much my very. Own as I can possibly make it?
Does it sound sincere, with no affectations or words used merely to attract attention? | LET'S WRITE A POEM Even though a poem may pass the test questions I have suggested, it may not place in the contest. But if it is a good poem it will not be the author's last one.
There are greater satisfactions in poetry than winning a prize, as desirable as that may be. One of these is the pleasure of creating something— making an idea articulate so that it may be enjoyed by others. But perhaps the greatest satisfaction ls that through developing the poetic attitude, the poet learns to discover the metals of value which are dif- 419 fused through the common clays of everyday life.
Books to Study HamI. LTon, ANNE: How to Revise Your Own Poems, The Writer, Inc., 8
Arlington Street, Boston 16, Mass. ($1.50). Hittyer, Rosert: First Principles of Verse, The Writer, Inc., 8
Arlington Street, Boston 16, Mass. ($2.00). Woop, CLEMENT: Art and Technique of Writing Poetry, Writer's Digest, 22