Social Service Department (Bishop's Building) Counselor Jennie B. Knight, Presiding Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Member of the General Board, Conducting
The time in this department was divided equally between a lesson demonstration on the Social Service lesson for the month of May, by Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, member of the General Board; and a demonstration on the Diagnosis and Treatment of a Family Situation, by Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, member of the staff of the Relief Society Welfare Department.
The subject of Mrs. Allen's lesson was "The Child's Moral Development." In connection with the lesson she presented an excellent outline, which she followed and which is here reproduced. This outline may be applied to any lesson in any of the departments:
Preparation of Lesson
"Do not attempt to teach anything without the Spirit of the Lord."?Karl G. Maeser.
1. Define Subject.
2. Collect Material: Reflect on own information and experience. Read other ideas from up-to-date books. Converse on subject matter.
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 317
Observe conduct of others. Summarize. 3. Arrange Material: Select vital points. Choose some illuminating material. Organize into major and sub-divisions. 4. Determine Objective: What?Information. Why?Application to life situations. 5. Study Listeners: Environment. Needs. Past experience. Ability to use?apply. 6. Present Lesson: Interest. Instruct. Inspire. 7. Summarize or Conclude: 8. Assign New Lesson: General. Committee. Individual.
Mrs. Palmer in her demonstration on the "Diagnosis and Treatment of a Family Situation" gave a comprehensive case-study of an Unstable Family, in which there was a man forty-four years old, a woman thirty-nine, and nine children. Ranging in age from four to twenty years. The problems in this family, in the five year period, were lack of income, unemployment, sickness, dishonesty, truancy, divorce, immorality, and prostitution. After a thorough discussion of the diagnosis and the treatment, which included plans, budgets, etc., Mrs. Palmer said in conclusion:
In the brief time allotted for this discussion it is possible only to glimpse the spot lights. During the entire time covered, from May, 1923, until now, there has not been a month when this family was not contacted. The economic problem has been constant. The office has been called for rents, food, and coal; for furniture and light bills; for false teeth and hand lotions. We have carried their plans and problems, as they moved about the city, to a half dozen bishops and as many ward Relief Society presidents, sometimes pleading for more help and sometimes urging greater restraint. We have been called to task when we seemed to request grocery orders too big or too frequent; and we


have been granted a month's rent gladly when the troublesome C.'s were moving to another ward. Through it all we have worked, patiently and sympathetically, realizing our family's handicaps and trying to understand their weakness. In forwarding the interests of this one family, careful cooperation and help have been received from bishops and Relief Society workers, from the County Dept. of Health and Charities, from Juvenile Court and probation officers, from the City Board of Health, the Community Clinic, schools, employers, private physicians, psychiatrists, psychologists, and many other consultants. The end is not yet. But the health of the family is much improved, the home keeping is better, the behavior of some of the children is improved, and some are doing fairly well in school.