Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman San Francisco Stake (Organized) On July 10, 1927, the San Francisco stake was organized in the Oakland chapel with President Rudger Clawson, Elder George Albert Smith and President Joseph W. McMurrin officiating. In connection with the organization of the stake, auxiliary organizations were also effected. Mrs. Eva Brown Merrill was chosen president of the Relief Societies of the stake, with Mrs. Sara H. Carruth and Mrs. LaPrele Hoeft as counselors. Following is a list of the wards of the new stake: Berkeley, Diamond, Elmhurst, Martinez, Mission, Oakland, San Francisco, Richmond, Sunset, and Daly City. Boise Stake. 'The Boise stake Relief Society held a very successful and illuminating two days Social Service convention in the Boise tabernacle at the close of the year 1926, for all stake and ward workers. There was an excellent attendance, and great interest was manifested throughout. The convention was arranged under the direction of President Bessie G. Hale, and Mrs. Iva B. Ward and Mrs. Laura L. Campbell of the stake social service committee. The following instructive program was carried out: 1. "Work of the State Welfare Department,' Dr. Ralph M. Fouch, who said, among other things, that the main function of public health departments is preventive medicine, not curative. He told of efforts being put forth to better conditions in Idaho; said the state had held 97 clinics and examined 22 mothers and 4,205 children. 2. "Present Status of Juvenile Court Work in Idaho," by Mrs. Clara Brown, state probation officer. Mrs. Brown gave a splendid report of how the state is taking care of delinquent children, and of the efforts being put forth along preventive lines. '3. "The Visiting Teacher Movement" was discussed by Miss Reta Martin, assistant principal of the Boise high school. She said this is a new movement in educational advancement. The visiting teacher is a ""go-between" connecting up the work of the school and the home. Comparatively few cities have the visiting teacher; however, Idaho boasts of one city,' Pocatello, which is one of the first cities in the United States to adopt the plan. 4. "Work of the Salvation Army Rescue Home," by Commander Hamman. Mrs. Hamman has spent 30 years in this work, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 453 and told of the help given unfortunate girls who enter the home, and of the efforts made to prevent further delinquency. 5. "The Mentally Deficient Child," by Dr. Harmon Tremaine, who discussed the child from birth, taking the development of the brain through different stages. He made a plea for fair treatment for the deficient children. 6. 'Problems in the Administration of the State Prien? By F. A. Jeter, secretary of state. Mr. Jeter discussed the many problems that exist in the prison, and the efforts being put forth to better conditions. 7. "Preventative Dentistry," by Dr. H. B. Cohen. He said building sound teeth depends largely upon the pre-natal state, and that if the teeth are carefully cared for much disease would cease to be. ©; 8. "Care of the Insane in State of Idaho," by Judge J. W. Givens, who gave a splendid report of conditions as they exist. The doctor has spent 50 years in work connected with asylums, and he has often wondered why God permits his children to suffer this terrible affliction. He also discussed means of relief by which © many crimes caused through insanity might be stopped. 9. "Problems of Welfare Work," by Miss Adeline Johnesse. Miss Johnesse gave a constructive talk on problems of the welfare worker, and stressed the importance of sending traveling families who stop off in your city back to their original home towns. '10."The Pre-School Child," by Dr. Harmon Tremaine. Dr. Tremaine said that people who give normal children proper attention from birth are sure to have progressive children. He complimented the Latter-day Saints and likened them to a tribe who are taking interest in the rearing of their children, and especially in planning their recreation. 11. "The Adolescent Child," by Mrs. Laura Butts, assistant superintendent of Public Instruction, who said it is our duty to safeguard the child from birth and to guide and control him until he adjusts himself. She urged that more effort be made to keep the home intact, that we can prevent wrong doing easier than to cure it. 12. "Character Education as a Community Responsibility," by Dr. S. B. Brown, of Weiser. Dr. Brown gave, seven reasons, why children go astray—lack of religious training in the home; absence of parental control; failure to teach self-control; liquor habit; unsupervised amusements; lack of recreation; child labor. 13. "Conservation of Health," by Dr. L. D. Iieron He said, as we care for every detail of our business and home, we - should care for our health. We should conserve our bodies, and subject them to a thorough examination occasionally. 14. "Prevention of Heart Disease,' by Dr. Ernest E. Lau- UTAH STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY BANQ UET IN HONOR OF WARD OFFICERS \ NOTES FROM THE FIELD 455 baugh. Dr. Laubaugh gave a splendid lecture, using a chart to picture the heart and show the delicate valves. He said, when a person is running even the slightest temperature, he should remain in bed, as the heart action is twice what it sliould be. The higher the temperature the greater the heart beats. This should be carefully watched in children, as often a weak heart will follow a sickness on account of insufficient rest during convalescence. Utah Stake Toward the conclusion of the season's work each, year, the Utah stake Relief Society entertains in honor of the ward officers. This Spring a banquet was prepared, by the stake officers, and served by their daughters, to 100 guests, including ward executive officers of the sixteen wards, stake officers of the Y. L. M. I. A. And Primary, former stake officers of the Relief Society and members of the General Board. As one purpose of the entertainment was to obtain a better understanding through closer acquaintance and fellowship, the guests were divided into family groups of twenty, and were known as the bird, fish, vegetable, flower and animal families. Appropriate centerpieces were placed on the banquet tables for each family, such as a willow, encircled pond of goldfish, a tree of birds, a pasture of tiny animals and bowls of vegetables and flowers. The table decorations, as well as those of the banquet hall, were in Relief Society colors—gold and white. Tiny baskets of white and yellow pansies were used as favors, and vases of dainty yellow and white spring flowers lent beauty and fragrance to the scene. Preceding the banquet a reception was held, and a program of music, readings, drama and speeches enjoyed. Both stake and ward officers were elated over the fact that they had as special guests President Clarissa S. Williams, Counselors Jennie B. Knight and Louise Y. Robison, and Miss Alice L. Reynolds of the General Board. The toasts given at the banquet by ward, stake and general officers reflected the love of Relief Society work and the unity existing among officers of the organization. A spontaneous tribute to presiding officers paid by one of the ward presidents at the close of the festivities was expressive of the pleasure and success of the occasion. Lyman Stake ' With a view of improving the diet among the school children of this locality, Mrs. Retta Blackner, president of the stake Relief Society, and former president of the Parent Teachers' Association, solicited the aid of the state nutrition expert of Wyoming in planning for a campaign along this line. The expert went to Lyman to confer with the promoters and has prepared for them 25 typewritten sheets for each member in the ward associations on the following subjects: Vegetables: The need of vegetables in our diet; Foods that are high in minerals; Foods that 
 Are high in iron; Foods that are high in phosphorus; The important part these foods play in building up the body; Principles of vegetable cookery and recipes. Milk—its value to the body; Care of milk; Milk recipes. Cheese—its value; cheese recipes. Cereal foods or whole grains: Graham and whole wheat breads. Eggs—their value; Egg recipes. Meetings on nutrition are to be held on the third Tuesday during the summer months, with demonstrations of two or three recipes in the meeting, where possible. A demonstration of the "Teachers' Topic and the Visit to the Home" was recently given in the form of a play at one of the union meetings. In about half of the wards of this stake there are no doctors, and the women live a good many miles from a doctor, so the Relief Society is devoting a part of the time of the union meetings (about 30 minutes) this Summer to lectures from the local doctor on health work. The doctor has offered her services free, and will hold classes and make examinations of such mothers and children as are recommended by the Relief Society free of charge. Already over 100 examinations have been made, and a number of patients have been sent to hospitals; health bulletins from the government are also being distributed. California Mission (Richmond Branch) The Richmond branch Relief Society has made a most enviable record for the year 1927 in the matter of Magazine subRELIEF SOCIETY, RICHMOND BRANCH, CALIFORNIA MISSION scriptions. This energetic branch has a membership of 24, and has secured,29 Magazine subscriptions. The officers of the or- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 457 ganization are: president, Mrs. Eliza R. Gledhill; counselors, Mrs. Nettie Dewsnup and, Mrs. Blanch Pacord Post; secretary-treasurer,, Mrs. Clara Edleffsen; organist, Mrs. Elizabeth Salmon; Magazine agent, Mrs. Elise Pickelsimer. Hawaiian Mission A report has just reached the office from Mabel A. K. Kaulia, secretary, of a very successful Relief Society conference held in Honolulu recently in connection with conference of the M. I. A., Sunday School and Primary Association. Mrs. Olivia Waddoups presided at the Relief Society meetings. President William Waddoups, president of the mission; Elder Harold Allred, presiding elder of the conference; and Mrs, Jeanette A. Hyde, member of the General Relief Society Board, were special guests. The meetings were most inspiring and the attendance excellent, with a total of 415. The decoration was in charge of Mr. J. W. L. McGuire, and not only were there choice palms and ferns, but beautiful rare orchids from Mr. McGuire's fern house, which he loaned for the occasion. The following numbers were given on the program, in addition to opening and closing hymns.. Opening and closing prayers were offered by Mrs. Piwai Kuamu, president of Lahaina Relief Society, and Mrs. Julia Plunkett, president of Laie Relief Society. 1. Welcome Address........... President Olivia Waddoups Ze Sang........-....0egp essen em. Maui Relief Society 3. Reading, "Mother".......... 0.... Eee eeeEva Parker Bm OME....... I cleehi ie niliio -Hawaii Relief Society 5. Report of Utah April Conference...... Delegate Annie Lau fcOue..........08-.-...- ee. Mrs. Mulang Kaaikala Member of the Hoolehua Relief Society Zee Address......5.0-0+-+ essereMrs. Jeannette A. Hyde BePOOMe.... 1... «ee eeKauai Relief Society 9. Roll Call of the Relief Societies of the Islands............. Ieee. Mabel A. K. Kaulia, Secretary 0), So; neo eee aeMrs. Sarah Waihako Member of the Hana Relief Society RO@Marks......... Cc ccc cece heres ces nscceccsrveseees Counselor Minerva Fernadez; Counselor Frederickie McGuire; Mrs. Vilate Ivins; President — William Waddoups — —. South African Mission Mrs. Clara A. Martin, president of the Relief Societies of the South African mission reports that she has just completed a seven weeks tour of the mission in company with her husband President Samuel Martin. They found the Relief Society work pro- 
 gressing favorably and with renewed interest on the part of members. Northwestern States Mission (Eugene, Oregon) - A Relief Society was recently organized in Eugene, Oregon, with 10 members and 4 prospective members. Meetings at present are being held in the homes of members. On March 17 a celebration was held in this little branch, with a social in the evening. The officers are: president, Mrs. Lizzie Fleeman; first counselor, Mrs. H. Jacobson; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. M. Henrie. NEW STAKES ORGANIZED Jordan and Los Angeles Stakes Divided During the month of May, two stakes were divided—the Jordan and the Los Angeles. Jordan Stake: The Jordan stake was divided into the East Jordan and West Jordan stakes. The wards comprising these two stakes are—East Jordan: Butler, Crescent, Draper, East Midvale, Granite, Midvale, Sandy First, Sandy Second, Sandy Third, Union; West Jordan: Bingham, Bluff Dale, Herriman, Lark, Riverton, South Jordan, West Jordan. Mrs. Elfleda L. Jensen, who was formerly president of the Jordan stake, was retained as president of the East Jordan stake, and Mrs. Mary J. Pixton was appointed president of the West Jordan stake. Los Angeles Stake: The Los Angeles stake was divided into the Los Angeles and Hollywood stakes: The wards comprising the stakes are—Hollywood: Alhambra, Belvedere, Boyle Heights, Garvanza, Glendale, Hollywood, Lankershim, Ocean Park, Pasadena, Wilshire; Los Angeles: Adams, Home Gardens, Huntington Park, Inglewood, Long Beach, Mathews, Redondo, San Pedro, Virginia City. Mrs. Katherine Romney Stewart, formerly president of the Los Angeles stake, was appointed president of the new Hollywood stake, and Mrs. Laura P. Hotalling was appointed president of the Los Angeles stake. 