The Value of Bible Reading By Mrs. Jacob N. Lybberi In literature, the world has a heritage from the past with which no other of its possessions can compare. Literature is more than. Mere history, because it records man's thoughts, emotions, and aspirations. It preserves to us the ideals of the race upon which all our civilization is founded, and because the Bible does this better than any other book it is the greatest of all. It contains the best interpretations of human life, both man's everyday life and his ideals; it teaches his relations to other men, and above all his relation to God, the Father. Jesus said, "Search the scriptures, for in them ye think ye have eternal life, and they are they which testify of me." The great influence of the Bible over millions of people, through centuries of time is due to the fact that it speaks with an authority from God himself. Every part of it bears witness to his existence and gives us information concerning his character and attributes. Men everywhere recognize an intelligent Power higher than themselves who controls the universe. The 'whole experience of the race teaches this, and the Bible appeals to them because it is true to these truths of life and satisfying to the yearnings of the spirit. They are convinced that it is indeed the word of God to his children. Our reverence for the Bible is increased by a knowledge of how it has been handed down to us through centuries of time, through many languages, and many versions,—yet it has preserved its unity of doctrine in spite of the frailties of human copyists or the attacks of evil men. What man has made, man can destroy, but because our Father himself inspired the writing of the scriptures man has not been able to destroy them although every effort has been made to do so. Almost from the beginning opposition has been hurled against these sacred writings. Because this Book denounces sin; sinful men have always been its enemies. At the time when the printing press was invented, making it possible to produce enough copies of the Bible so that the common people could have access to it, the jealous churchmen tried to burn every copy and even put to death every person who owned a copy. Every effort that human knowledge of science, philosophy, ridicule or force, could conceive has been directed against it, yet the Bible has survived. At times all the great of earth have been against it, and only an obscure few for it, but today it N 
 has a firmer hold upon the confidence and love of the best and wisest of men than ever before. If it had been man's book it would have gone down and been forgotten centuries ago, but because our Father's power upheld it, each new attack has but showed more completely its great truths and divinity. "Truth crushed to earth shall rise again, The eternal years of God are hers; But error wounded writhes in pain And dies among her worshippers." The word "Bible" is taken from the Greek word "Biblia" meaning "the books." The Bible is composed of sixty-six books written by at least forty different authors scattered through about sixteen centuries of time. Originally it was written in three different languages, Hebrew, Aramaic and Greek; and by men of every plane of life from the king on his throne to the lowly shepherd and fisherman, and yet it has a marvelous unity of underlying thoughts and purposes. The only way we can account for it is that back of the many human authors was the one all-controling, all-governing, and directing mind of God. And the only way we can account for the reverent care those people have shown, whose duty it has been to preserve this Book through its darkest days, is that they were inspired of God as to its value to the human race. Not only because of its divine origin should we prize the Bible, but also because of its truly great literary value. There is no finer: literature in the world. Many of our greatest writers gained their strong, beautiful style from reading the Bible. Ruskin's mother had him read from Genesis to Revelations, again and again. Later in life he said he considered this training "the most precious and the one essential part of all his education." William Cullen Bryant when asked where he got his lofty style for writing "Thanatopsis" said, From reading the Bible. All of the Old Testament stories show wonderful literary and artistic power. The Book of Ruth, because of its simple story of loyalty and affection, is one of the loveliest pictures we have of life in Palestine. 'It has been said that no other poetry ever written has been read and studied and sung by more people than the Hebrew Book of Psalms, and this because they express better than any other poetry, the feelings' of the devout soul toward God." Take, for instance, that Psalm, "The Lord is my Shepherd;" the secret of its power lies in its perfect expression of the religious emotions common to humanity. It is impossible to measure the influence of the Bible on all subsequent literature. Every part of it, its prophecies and their fulfilment, the Proverbs or Wisdom Books, the Beatitudes and Parables of the Savior, all have left their impress on our best ¢ THE VALUE OF BIBLE READING » 447 writings, songs, and art. Its influence is seen in every phase of life, in business and education as well as religion. The laws of Moses have formed the basis for all that is best in our modern governments. One great man who had been a life-long student of letters, and especially Oriental letters left these words on the last fly leaf of his Bible, "I have regularly and attentively read these Holy Scriptures, and am of opinion that this volume, independently of its divine origin, contains more pure morality, more important history, and finer strains of poetry and eloquence, than can be collected from all other books in whatever age or language they may have been collected." So we should place the Bible among our literary treasures to be fead and reread. Where can we find more beautiful expressions than those of this Book? 'Take, for instance, the narrative of the birth of the Savior as told by Luke, and note its simple, yet impressive, words: "And there were, in the same country, shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them: and they wére sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. "For unto you is born this day, in the city of David, a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. "And this shall be a sign unto you; Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes; lying in a manger., "And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of heavenly hosts praising God, and saying, "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." The author of one of our text books in English literature states that the greatest literary achievement of the age of Elizabeth, the age which produced Bacon and Shakespeare, was the King James version of the Bible, which appeared in 1611. He further states: "The great original Hebrew and Greek books; the aid in style which the translators found in the Latin Vulgate; the pioneer work done by Wycliffe, Tyndale, and Coverdale; the fact that the translators, themselves men of great literary ability, worked in the midst of the most noteworthy ferment in all literature—all these forces produced a matchless result. A volume is compressed into the line, And God said, Let there be light, and there was light; a page into the two words, Jesus wept. Beside the splendor of the Psalms, of the Book of Job, of the Prophets, and of the Apocrypha, the Odes of Sappho and Pindar seem tame and absurd. Even Shakespeare's prose is not impressive in comparison with the vigor '
 of the English Bible. No other book has so penetrated the hearts and speech of the English race. -Huxley calls it the national epic of Britain. Coleridge says: 'After reading Isaiah or St. Paul's Epistle to the Hebrews, Homer and Virgil are disgustingly tame to me.' Milton's opinion was that there are no songs to be compared with the songs of Zion, no orations equal to those of the Prophets. Sir Walter Scott, on his death bed, asked Lockhart to read to him. When asked from what book, he replied: 'Need you ask? There is but one.' Wordsworth called the scriptures the grand storehouses of imagination. Ruskin counted the fact that his mother made him learn by heart certain portions of the Bible the one essential part of his education. Among others who have expressed similar opinions are Carlyle, Newman, Macaulay, Froude, and Swift. The Bible was the chief model of Bunyan in Pilgrim's 'Progress, of Andrew Lang in his wonderful prose versions of the Jliad and Odyssey, of Walt Whitman, and of the greatest speeches made in the nineteenth century, those of Abraham Lincoln. -Coleridge indeed says that intense study of the Bible will keep any writer from being vulgar in point of style. Prof. Albert S. Cook declares it, finally, "the chief bond that holds united, in a common loyalty and a common endeavor, the various branches of the English race." (English Literature by Edwin L. Miller, A. M., page 161.) So we find that until the time of the restoration of the gospel in our day, the Bible was the one book to which all Christians looked for comfort, wisdom, and spiritual guidance. The Lord has always instructed his servants to write his word and preserve it for future generations. In the very beginning when he taught the gospel to Adam, in answer to his first prayer, he also said: 'Teach these things freely to your children." To Moses, just before his death, the Lord gave the command that he write all the laws and the statutes in a book and instruct Joshua to teach them to the children of Israel. He said: "Thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk about them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up." Can anything be more plain as to our duty? And we have received just as emphatic instruction in our day. Another fine example of the importance that our Father placed on the written history of his dealings with his children was the command to Lehi to send back to Jerusalem for the record of his fathers, and the injunction to each succeeding prophet, in Nephite history, to keep a written record and preserve it with the greatest care. The need for such a record was made plain to Nephi when it was necessary for him to take the life of Laban in order to obtain the plates. When he hesitated the Lord said, "It is better THE VALUE OF BIBLE READING 449 that one man should perish than that a nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief." The finest example we have of the value or need of reading the scriptures is the example of Christ himself. That Christ studied the scriptures is evident from the many quotations he made from them. After his resurrection when he met the two disciples on the way to Emmaus and conversed with them, it is written, "And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself."' This not only proves that he was familiar with the scriptures, but also that he conformed his life to their teachings. Another fine instance is found in the temptations. Jesus answered each one by saying, "It is written," and then by quoting directly from the scriptures. To the one where he was tempted to turn stones into bread, to satisfy his hunger, he answered, "It is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God," proving that Jesus believed that man should become familiar with, and live up to, the scripture teachings. Many instances could be cited where Jesus, also the apostles, quote from the Old Testament. The race has never outgrown the Bible, and never will. Its teachings are ever ahead of its time, and only as we grow in knowledge and intelligence can we fully appreciate its great truths. If we notice we shall find that every great truth of human life that man discovers is taught in the Bible, but is not understood until man develops far enough. The great statistician, R. W. Babson, has contributed a great truth to the American public in his book, Fundamentals of Prosperity, in which he teaches that men as well as nations are truly great just in proportion as they are truly and consistently religious. But Jesus expressed this same thought more beautifully when he said, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you.' To see that the Bible has wielded an immeasurable influence on the progress of the world, it is only necessary to study the causes that brought about the Reformation. It is difficult to analyze all the causes of the Reformation or ' to separate them from the whole movement of the times known as the Revival of Learning. But those great men, Erasmus, Wycliffe, Coverdale, and Tyndale did a great service in translating the Old Bible manuscripts into English so that the common people could read it for themselves. Then came the printing. Press to England, in 1476, so that copies could be made so rapidly in comparison with the slow and painful way of hand-copying that the masses could own Bibles as well as read them. It is interesting to know that the Bible was the first book to be printed in the English language. The people awakened to its wonderful teachings. For the first time they came in direct con- 
 tact with the simple text, and it gave them new ideas of freedom in religion and politics. They began to see the difference between the simple teachings of the "Master," and the great corruptions of the church. All this had a profound influence on the revival of learning. It fostered education for the masses. It was a big part of that great movement which changed the industrial, political, and religious life of western Europe, and helped to bring about the settlement of America by the Pilgrims. It was said, at that time, that "Theology rules in England." "The English became the people of one book, and that book was the Bible." It is easy to see the hand of God in all this, in shaping the destinies of men, and in preparing the world for the new revelations given to Joseph Smith. It is inspiring to trace the influence of the Bible on the Pilgrims in their ideals of religious and political freedom, and to see how it paved the way for our democratic form of government, and how it wove itself into the very fabric of our great laws and constitution. The ideals of the Pilgrim fathers are found in that phrase of the Declaration of Independence, "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." Behind all this we see the influence of God in the Bible teachings of service, and love, and the brotherhood of man. We cannot help but be impressed with the fact that results come in conformity with that great law of the universe—the law of growth. Our Father in heaven never forces the human mind, but he reveals his truth to us as we seek diligently and persistently for it. "Seek and ye shall find," is the divine formula for obtaining any of the gifts of God. As man advanced toward the light, he became cOivinced that true authority was not in the churches. Joseph Smith studied his Bible to find an answer to the yearnings of his heart after truth. He fouind the answer just as all will who approach it with the proper attitude. And after all, the greatest value of reading the Bible is individual. "Intelligent reading of this book gives a breadth of vision, a culture, a moral strength, and a spiritual outlook that are beyond price.' Tt has the power to lift man up to God. Dr. Torry says, "We owe all that is best in modern civilization to the influence of this book." All of our great men have been sincere Bible readers and bear testimony to its value to the individual. With the added light that has come to the Latter-day Saints, how much more should we appreciate it! Although the Book of Mormon, Pearl of Great Price, and Doctrine and Covenants have THE VALUE OF BIBLE READING 451 given more light, they supplement and in no way contradict the Bible teachings. They furnish some of the strongest evidence we have of its truth and value. Human nature is the same the world over and in every age, and the Bible is so true to human nature that it bears a personal message to every individual. It is an unfailing guide-book in all the affairs of life. Someone has called it "The rule book of life," and we should learn to use it as such, as a rule to solve our everyday problems, and to measure our progress toward eternal Jife. "This is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent." Our best means of knowing him is by studying his holy word. But to gain this knowledge we must read with faith and sincerity, and a real desire to do the will of the Father. Jesus said, "If any man will. Do his will, he shall know of the doctrines, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." On our individual testimony rests our chances for salvation, and it is our duty and privilege to gain that testimony. We need it, especially, to meet the doubt and disbelief of the world today, and we need it if we are to be effective teachers in our organizations or in our homes. Our Church offers every incentive for study. The leaders are especially emphasizing Bible reading and the need for an individual testimony of the Divinity of Jesus Christ. May our Father in heaven help us to gain that testimony, and to understand more fully the great truths of the Bible, that we mav conform our lives to them. And Day is Born By Grace Ingles Frost A tremor quivering through the earth, (The lifting of the veil of night;) A breath of rose leaves cool as sylvan streams, The flute-notes of a bird's lone call, A gleam of golden light, And then, a rippling throb of ecstasy That breaks forth into silver-throated song, Mellifluous, ascending in its flight To one superb, divine magnificat,— And day is born.