Guide Lessons for November LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in November ) DOCTRINES OF THE MESSIANIC DISPENSATION (Continued) 1. The First and the Great Command. "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment." So spake Jesus in answer to the question of a lawyer. See Matt. 22:35-40. 2. The History of the Law. As written scripture, the law was in force among the Israelites, as Jesus evidently either quoted or read from Deuteronomy 6:4-5 when he was in the Temple on Tuesday, the third day of the passion week, and answered the question of the Scribe or government clerk who with others was there to entrap him or get court evidence against him. See Mark 12:28-30. 3. The law stated in Deuteronomy is but an expansion of the command written by the finger of God at Sinai. "Thou shalt have no other Gods before me," meaning you shall have no other love greater than your love for God. 4. That the law was given to Adam and Eve is evident from the following: "And he gave unto them commandments that they should worship the Lord their God, and should offer the firstlings of their flocks for an offering unto the Lord." A command to worship is a call for homage through either fear or love. Which was it to our first parents? We read that "Adam blessed God" and that Eve "was glad.' Pearl of Great Price, Book of Moses 5:4-12. Whether Abraham ever read the law or had it formulated for him, he lived it. "Friend of God" and "Father of the Faithful" are titles not obtained without a whole-souled, whole-minded, whole-hearted love for God. » 5. The First and Great Commandment. A love call has been with the people of God in all the gospel dispensations. It is a part of the everlasting gospel. It has 'always been the first section of the perfect law of liberty. It has out-lived the call of fear, and survives in the field of thought under the law of the survival of the fittest, in the spiritual universe. This love for God like all other love comes not by demand. It cannot be willed, it must be won, and so this first great command stands before us as a call, an invitation, the announcement of an opportunity, the pointing out of a way to be happiest. 
 It is a provision in the scheme for the happiness of man, calculated to make one exclaim: O may I know the Lord as a friend, And love of him my life attend. And the second commandment leads us to exclaim: May one sweet joy be mine to know That I have lessened others woe. May life eternal be my share, Under my Redeemer's care, Wiith those I love, eternal joy, Eternal work in God's employ. What tt means to "love God with all thy soul" The soul is the whole individuality, so that loving God with all one's soul means giving him a love that is unfeigned, undivided, and unmeasured. First, by counting our blessings which means thinking of how much has come to us, and is coming to us, that could not come except through God. Second, by expressing our appreciation and gratitude to God for these blessings. Third, by rendering service to God under the law of love which provides that we grow to love in the direction of willing service. Fourth, do the works, and ye shall know, to love is akin in truth to the saying, "Do the works, and ye shall know of the doctrine." What does it mean to love God? It means, first, to have an attitude of reverence toward God. "Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name." Who can honestly and intelligently utter that part of the Lord's prayer without a feeling of reverence? It means, second, to have an attitude of acquiescence in the will of the Lord, i. E., a state of mind such as Jesus had in Gethsemane, such as is provided for in the prayer. When we can fervently pray, "Thy Kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven" we have the attitude of acquiescence in the will of God, the second essential attitude to a state of love for God. Third. A desire to serve him is an attitude indispensable to the love of God. Saul of Tarsus, in distress, called out, "Lord, what wilt thou have me to do?" Judging from his valiant life we may think of how many times Paul may have prayed in his heart, "Lord how can I help thee?" The cry at pentecost, "Men and brethren, what shall we do to be saved?" had behind it fear, and it is rarely if ever void of selfishness. Their state of mind was not comparable with that which prompted John to ask that he might remain on earth and work for Christ. John has been called the beloved apostle, meaning that he was loved more than were the others by the Savior. Be that as it may, did he not, in his re-GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 461 quest to remain and work for the Lord, instead of going to him as the others all desired, prove that he was the greatest lover of them all? So, then, love of God has in it three attitudes: reverence, acquiescence, and a desire to serve. But attitudes are not all of that love of God spoken of in the first great commandment. To love God means more than to have favorable attitudes towards him, it means reverence reinforced by obedience. Acquiescence must be supplemented by uncomplaining endurance; and a desire to serve, must be added to by work for the Lord. If ye love me, ye will keep my commandments, "If a man love me, he will keep my words," (John 14:23) said the Savior. But there is a kind of commandment-keeping that has no love of God in it. The command to pray may be kept in a counterfeit fashion as was the case with the Pharisees who uttered long prayers to be heard of men, who paid tithing in order to be popular. Jesus said of their action, | "Woe unto you, Pharisees! For ye tithe mint and rue and all manner of herbs, and pass over judgment and the love of God." Luke 11:42. Their tithing was one of the hand alone. There was no heart in it. It was action minus attitude, and therefore unacceptable, under the first great law which provides for a wholehearted love. Petitions with a mental reserve, though addressed to Heaven, never even start on their journey because of the lack. Of whole-mindedness or sincerity. The mother who said, when making up her family budget: first, our tithing, one tenth of our. Average yearly income must be set apart for the Lord;'come what will, our tithing shall be paid; that woman had the love of God, love-attitude plus love-action. She loved with all her "heart," with all her "soul," with all her "mind," and with all her "strength." She could pray thus: "T would not have thee deem my love A fleeting transient thing To perish as the winter snow Beneath the breath of spring. To be consistent with the theme the word Father is substituted in the second stanza, "But Father, I would have thee know That in my inmost soul There dwells a love as true to you As needle to the pole. "A love that's founded on the rock Defeats the storms of earth, A love that never can forget The one who gave it birth." i 
 The man who said, whatever else my boy may have, I want him to have a mission, not for what he may learn, because he can get learning at home, but for what he can do for the Lord, in part payment for what the Lord has done for him, and all the family. This man's love of God was of that type possessed by one of Zion's poets when she wrote: "My heart is fixed, I know in whom I trust." A brilliant young man, after taking his college degree, said in substance to the President of the institution, there are many opportunities before me, but the one I most appreciate is that of going on a mission. My gratitude to God prompts a desire to help in his work, and I hope to put in at least two years of my whole time in the service of the Church, and he did. The love of God includes the love of the things that make him God. God is glorious and his glory is intelligence. Can one who enjoys ignorance, and who has no yearnings for knowledge, no interest in intellectual progress, can such a one love a God whose glory is intelligence? Justice is a characteristic of God. It is hard to conceive of the existence of a person who does not love justice. Yet we know there are many who love justice but who consort with injustice. Wihat shall we say of their love of the God of justice. Mercy is something without which God could not be God, and here we may ask if anyone who enjoys the anguish of another can be said to love mercy, and can anyone who does not love mercy love a being who would cease to be what he is were he not merciful? Questions and Problems 1. Quote from Job to illustrate acquiescence as an element of the love of God. 2. Wherein is the sacrament prayer on the bread a declaration of acquiescent attitude? 3. Show that the sacramental prayer on the water is a declaration of action as an essential in our love of God. 4, Discuss in the light of the great commandment: 'Love levels all ranks, and puts the shepherd's crook beside the scepter."' 5. Distinguish between compliance with and acquiescence in. 6. Which part of the great SOL i ouahise provides for whole-heartedness in love of God? 7. What part of the great commandment is being neglected by those who neglect the study of theology? 8. Wherein does the great commandment require going beyond the point of convenience in our religion? GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 463 LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in November) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR NOVEMBER—CIVIC PRIDE IT. Ii. IV. V. Water Supply Source of Supply: What is the source of your drinking water? If you have a water system is the source carefully protected from contamination? How is the water distributed? If you use surface wells are you sure the water is pure? (Drainage from corrals and privies often finds its way into surface wells.) If water source is open ditches, is any precaution taken to protect the water from pollution? Purity of Water Supply: Has your drinking water been analyzed by the State Board of Health or the State Chemist? If so, what were the results of the analysis? Control of Water: Is your water system owned and controlled ey the municipality or by a private company? The Boiling of Water Insures its Safety: If you are in doubt regarding the safety of water do you take the precaution to boil it? Results of Impure Water: Typhoid fever, many types of intestinal troubles and other diseases are often the results of impure water. 
 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in Noyember) EDGAR LEE MASTERS Our readers will be interested in knowing that Edgar Lee Masters, whose Spoon River is a pioneer form in English literature, is a son of Illinois pioneers. He is not only a great poet, but also a great historian. His love of liberty and his concept of democracy make him an unusual figure in American letters. His love of liberty is hereditary, for his great, great grandfather, Hillary Masters, went off from Wythe county, Virginia to the Revolutionary War. It was in 1847, also, that Mr. Masters' grandfather moved to an Illinois farm that had been surveyed by Lincoln ten years before. In his grandfather's court, Lincoln appeared as an attorney before Judge Masters many times. As an attorney, in Chicago, the law partner of Clarence Darrow, Edgar Lee Masters was earning the equivalent of eighty thousand dollars a year. Sickness, and a growing distaste for his large legal practice, determined him to follow the light of his own soul, One may gain some feeling for the depth of Masters' spiritual understanding from his poem, "Silence." This is gne of the finest poems in American literature. It was published by permission recently in The Deseret News. It may also be found in Doomsday Book, and in Selected Poems (1925). SILENCE I have known the silence of the stars and the sea, And the silence of the city when it pauses, And the silence of man and a maid, And the silence for which music alone finds the word. And the silence of the woods before the winds of sng begin, And the silence of the sick When their eyes roam about the room. And I ask: For the depths, Of what use is language? A beast of the field moans a few times When death takes its young. And we are voiceless in the presence of realities GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 465 We cannot speak. A curious boy asks an old soldier Sitting in front of the grocery store, "How did you lose your leg?" And the old soldier is struck with silence, Or his mind fies away Because he cannot concentrate it on Gettysburg. It comes back jocosely And he says, "A bear bit it off." And the boy wonders, while the old soldier Dumbly, feebly lives over, The flashes of guns, the thunder of cannon, The shrieks of the slain, And himself lying on the ground; And the hospital surgeons, the knives, And the long days in bed. But if he could describe it all He would be an artist. But if he were an artist, there would be deeper wounds Which he could not describe. There is the silence of a great hatred, And the silence of a great love, And the silence of a deep peace of mind, And the silence of an embittered friendship; There is the silence of a spiritual crisis, Through which your soul, exquisitely tortured, Comes with visions not to be uttered; Into a realm of higher life, And the silence of the gods who understand each other without speech, There is the silence of defeat. And there is the silence of the dead. If we who are in life cannot speak Of profound experiences, Why do you marvel that the dead Do not tell you of death? Their silence shall be interpreted As we approach them.; Masters' gift for divining nobility of character in humble folk is pronounced. He is truly great in that his interest in simple people has not been sacrificed by his knowledge of the classics and the sciences. Great sufferers who bear their burdens silently find a clear voice in Edgar Lee Masters. Witness the following poem from the New Spoon River: 
 Conrap HERRON I wrote no book, Spoon River; I left no library to you; I endowed no school for you; My face is not embossed in bronze In the court-house corridor, As the faces are of Editor Whedon, And Thomas Rhodes, the banker. But did I do nothing for you, Did I leave you no legacy? Is it worth nothing to you That, dying with cancer I endured with fortitude and patience? Even the simple little kitchen slave, "Slip Shoe Lovey," is not too mean for interpretation. This poem, too long to quote here in full, may be found in Selected Poems, 1925. Stipe SHOE LOVEY You're the cook's understudy A gentle idiot body. You are slender like a broom Weaving up and down the room, With your dirt hair in a twist And your left éye in a mist, Never thinkin', never hopin' With your wet mouth always open. So bewildered and so busy As you scrape the dirty kettles, O Slip Shoe Lizzie, As you rattle with the pans. In the 1926 Selection of Best American Verse is a delightful poem of Masters entitled "Contentment." It could not be quoted here since the book is not available. It originally appeared in The Mercury. Those readers of Masters, whose acquaintance with his books is limited to his Spoon River and his novels, will have many delightful moments with his earlier lyrics. In Songs and 'Satires, he published the following delightful poems about his little daughters. (They are republished in Selected Poems, 1925:) MADELINE I almost heard your little heart Begin to beat, and since that hour 'Your life has grown apace and blossomed, Fed by the same miraculous power GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 467 You sleep. I wait to see you wake, With wonder-eyes and hands that reach. I laugh to hear your thoughts that gather Too fast on your budding lips for speech. Now all day your steps are a-patter. And made your heart begin to beat. That moved the rivulet of your life, Oh, what swift and musical feet! Your sunny hair is cut as if *Twere trimmed around a yellow crock. How gay the ribbon, and oh, how cunning The flaring skirt of the little frock! Why do you never tire of playing, Or cease from mischief, or cease from noise? You build and play and search and pry, And hunt for dolls and forgotten toys. You will not sleep? You are tired of the house? You are just as naughty as you can be. Madeline, Madeline, come to the garden, And play with Marcia under the tree! MARCIA Madeline's hair is straight, and yours Is just as curly as tendril vines; And she is fair, but a deeper color Your cheeks of olive incarnadines. A serious wisdom burns and glows Steadily in your dark-eyed look. Already a wit and a little stoic— Perhaps you are going to write a book. Or paint a picture, or sing, or act The part of Katherine-or Juliet. [ believe you were born with the gift of knowing When to remember and when to forget. And when to stifle and kill a grief, And clutch your heart when it beats in vain. The heart that has most strength for feeling Must have the strength to conquer the pain. You understand? It seems that you do— Though you cannot utter a word to me. Marcia, Marcia, look at Madeline Building a doll-house under the tree! 
 Utah people who are interested in pioneer novels would do well to become acquainted with Masters' stories since they deal with the pioneers of the Middle West and their descendants. Masters revived interest in Stephen A. Douglas (Lincoln's opponent), in his Children of the Market Place. The Mirage, the Nuptual Flight, and Mitch Miller, all weave about the pioneer families. His latest novel Kit O'Brien is just off the press. It is a most delightful boy's story, as clever as Tom Sawyer in the matter of magic. It has all the charm of the pioneer people who have ipassed away, and it is of the most unusual interest for Utah writers who would preserve something of the flavor of early Utah days. (Boni and Liveright, publishers, 1927.) One of the finest tributes ever paid to a parent was uttered by Edgar Lee Masters as he stood beside the open grave of his own father a short time ago in a little Illinois cemetery. It may 'never appear as a literary contribution, but it is so beautiful that it is given here. Mr. Masters said: "If, before coming into this world, I could have chosen my father with all the understanding I have today, he is the man I would have chosen. Whatever I have inherited from him in strength, or health, or gifts, or understanding of life, I count as more precious than all the riches in the world." (Read address on Edgar Lee Masters, published in the Magazine, for additional information on Spoon River.) (Books of Edgar Lee Masters recommended for reading: Selected Poems, 1925; magazine articles and._poems in various volumes of The Mercury. Of his novels: Kit O'Brien and Children of the Market Place; Mitch Miller; Historical Poems; Lee, A Dramatic Poem.) \ Questions and Problems 1. State in your own words what Masters means in this line in "Silence:" 'For the depths, of what use is language?" 2. Tell the effect of "Silence" on you. 3. What do you understand to be the poet's meaning in this line: "Their silence shall be interpreted as we approach them." 4, What is your reaction to his brief for the sufferer of cancer? 5. What philosophical quality is most dominant in the poems you have read of Masters? 6. Tell in your own words your understanding of fatherhood that Masters exhibits in his poems, "Marcia, and "Madeline." GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 469 7. Is "Slip Shoe Lovey" worth your study at all? 8. From Masters' statement about his father, what principles of sterling value must that departed father have instilled into one of our greatest poets? 9. Read address published in the Magazine that was made to Relief Society on Edgar Lee Masters as a poet. Published in the Relief Society Magazine, June issue, 1927.: LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in November) ELIZABETH Every community must frequently answer the question, "What shall we do with Elizabeth?" Our story today will not be entirely about the particular Elizabeth who was deprived of a home, but of all the Elizabeths and their brothers who have lost their own homes. This Elizabeth was placed in an institution for orphans. Her parents had both died of tuberculosis, and the children were placed among the interested relatives. Elizabeth had to be cared for in a hospital because of a tubercular hip, and later, she was sent to a home for orphans. She was in good health but retained a slight limp. For several years Elizabeth remained at the institution, attending public school, receiving good marks, observing all the rules of the institution, and was considered a fine, bright, obedient girl when she' graduated from high school. But Elizabeth was unhappy. In fact, she was often so distressed and moody that she contemplated taking her own life. She was sensitive, self-conscious, lonely and forlorn. The question had then to be asked again, 'What shall we do with Elizabeth?" The state had accepted its obligation and given the child every advantage for good physical and medical care, and provided excellent educational opportunities. But unquestionably, all this care had not made of Elizabeth a happy, normal, useful individual. Elizabeth's unhappiness was undoubtedly related to her social environment. She felt alone and abandoned and inferior. She felt that the large unknown world beyond the institution was too difficult to face. She preferred complete escape and obliteration. It is difficult to analyze what elements in normal child life and development are lacking in a well managed institution, There 
 is usually kindliness and personal interest. 'There is excellent physical care. There are opportunities for education and selfexpression. But there are certain experiences that a child in an institution loses that makes him feel apart and different from the rest of human-kind. He has little opportunity for deep feelings of affection, which are part of a normal life in a home of parents and brothers and sisters. He has no feeling of being a part of the community, as a child does, who has parents, brothers and sisters in the world of affairs—at work, school, college, clubs, etc. Perhaps the greatest feeling of insecurity that comes to a child in an institution is his own conception that he is 'different,' that for some unknown reason fate has marked him to play the role of an outcast. As with all generalizations, there are exceptions to these statements. Some children may spend years in an institution, find certain satisfactory outlets for their thwarted desires for a home and family affection, and later make a good adjustment in the community. Studies of children who have been reared in institutions, however, have raised serious questions about the advisability of placing orphans, delinquent and homeless children, in institutions, for long periods of time. To return to Elizabeth, the treatment proposed to relieve het from her unhappy state was to place her in a private home. In this closer relationship within a family group and with persons who were a part of a community, she lost the feeling that she was a queer, inferior sort of person. She was then given opportunity to earn part of her livelihood, which gave her confidence that she could later succeed in making her way in the world. It was also arranged for her to continue her school work, as her intellectual endowment justified the belief that a college course would be profitable for her. In the new environment, she gained a confidence in herself and a satisfaction in finding herself in her relationship to the community that she had never found in the sheltered environment of an institution. She progressed in school, she took new interest in her work, and she became cheerful and happy. She learnea to enjoy life because she was no longer oppressed with fears of the unknown world, and with her fear of her own inadequacy. It may be that her early physical disability and the slight limp she retained accentuated her feeling of insecurity. Any feeling of being inferior or different may be the cause of emotional distress, so the combination of a physical infirmity and the loneliness of an orphan's home proved more than she could endure. But with the new regime, and the satisfactory expression of her abilities, the slight physical handicap did not interfere with her adjustment. The new experiences which released her from her in- GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 47] ferior feeling of being an institutional child also released her from the feeling that she was inferior because she was physically handicapped. The treatment for any feeling of inferiority is to find constructive expressions and outlets, that give the individual a satisfying experience of success and achievement. The chapter dealing with Elizabeth's difficulties raises many questions. One is the practical one of what is to be done with orphans and homeless children? Most states have provided institutions for homeless children and also training schools for - delinquents. If the authorities on child welfare are convinced that institutional life, because of its abnormal environment, does not develop the highest possibilities of the children placed in them, what alternatives are there? The first suggestion is that greater care should be taken in planning for children in their own homes. Often, if an attempt is made to keep an unstable home together by effort on the part of welfare agencies, the children have a better opportunity for normal development. The institutions for orphans are not housing orphans at all, but usually children of widows, deserted women, or children of broken homes. Effort should be made to have parents realize the advisability of keeping a home together, even if it means long treatment in development of parental responsibility or even financial assistance in the homes of widows or where the man of the family is ill or has failed to provide. Such care is less expensive than care in institutions and has possibilities of better results in making happy, useful citizens of both the parents and the children. When care outside the home is imperative, the institution should perhaps be used for a short time in order to study the child's health, mentality and attitudes and habits. If the child has no relatives who claim custody, an adoption into a suitable foster home might be made. The adoption should be legal, to protect both the child and the adopting parents, but should not be made legal until after a period of trial—perhaps of about a year. This principle should apply to infants, too, as the period of probation would give both the adopting parents and the agency placing the child an oportunity to determine if the arrangement should be permanent. But the majority of children in training schools and orphan's homes are not free for legal adoption. The new program for the care of these children is to find them suitable places to board,-— either free homes or homes that will accept children for a nominal fee. Care, of course, must be exercised so the older children are not taken because of the service they can give. Also the matter of a fee should not be the main reason that a child is accepted in a boarding home. Experience in many communities has shown that many pleas- - 
 ant, comfortable homes can be found with intelligent sympathetic parents, who find pleasure in the companionship and the progress of children placed in their care. Elizabeth was given new hope and courage in her pleasant boarding home. Many other children are now given this same opportunity to find a substitute for their own lost home in this manner. Such programs of child care are promoted and financed by private agencies, by the boards of orphan homes, and by state funds. In closing the discussion of the social problems of childhood, the author emphasizes the importance of a home environment for a child, and also the need of parents becoming aware of their significance in shaping the lives of their children. A parent's obligation does not end when he provides for the physical needs of his child. Parenthood entails an obligation to give the child an opportunity for the harmonious development of his personality. Reference: Challenge of Childhood, Dr. Ira S. Wile, Elizabeth, pages 284-294, Questions and Problems 1. Why was Elizabeth unhappy? 2. What treatment was proposed? 3. Why did her new environment change her attitudes? 4, Why should children be kept in their own homes if pos- 5. Under what circumstances should adoptions of children be made? 6. What is meant by boarding homes for children? 7. What are the advantages of boarding homes over institutions? 8. What are the provisions for boarding children in your community? One By One! More Q. P. Skaggs System stores are continually being opened in Utah and surrounding states. Every medium sized village of this section will soon enjoy the benefits of our System. Old fashioned, high priced, inefficient grocery stores can be turned into an O. P. SKAGGS SYSTEM store and enjoy all chain store privileges at a cost of only a few hundred dollars. If your local grocer is unable to serve you properly, under his present operating plan, advise him he can change his store into an O. P. SKAGGS SYSTEM store and do much better by all Address: P. O.