Mormon A Dantsh Painting The copy of the painting on the opposite page is entitled "A Mormon in the Country at a Carpenter's Home." It is in the famous Statens Museum at Copenhagen, Denmark and was painted by Dalsgaard. The picture is that of a "Mormon" missionary preaching the gospel. In all probability he has the Bible in his hand, but the artist calls him a "Mormon." He would never be known to the world of art or the world at large as a "Mormon" had not the Book of Mormon been delivered to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Excerpt Taken From a Letter of Professor Hull of Cornell University An excerpt from a letter written by Mr. Charles H. Hull, Professor of American History at Cornell University, to President George H. Brimhall, will, we feel, be of interest to our readers: "Miss Effie Smith, a former student in my classes, is now, or lately was, Mr. North's secretary and bibliographer. She sent me a catalogue, in which she took some justifiable pride, of 'First _ Editions of One Hundred Famous American Books'—some such titlke—and in acknowledging it I remarked that it did not contain what I supposed to be one of the most famous, or perhaps I may. Have said the most widely discussed, books ever published in America: could she guess what it was? She and Mr. North gave > it up, but when I mentioned the Book of Mormon they agreed, and eventually Mr. North bought one of my copies. "I am perfectly willing to say to anyone that I suppose the Book of Mormon to be one of the most famous and widely discussed books ever published in America. I think an arguable case can be made for the assertion that it is the most famous and widely discussed book ever first published in America." Testimony of Madam Mountford When I was visiting Palestine in the spring of 1925 I met Mr.. Tadrus, a gentleman who has lived in that land all his life, and knows the people of the country well. He told me that the most clever person who had ever gone from the Holy Land to explain the manners and customs of the country to the people of the Occident was Madam Lydia M. V. F. Mountford. Madam Mountford visited Utah many times. During the Summer of 1897 she-came to take part in the celebration of the Oo ° fiftieth anniversary of the pioneers entering the valley of the oo "OP ne SOD "gp? = ry te) "a wee ot <P stk eS Mee, - eS "2 ee oS, peer, ~ 
 Great Salt Lake. While there Mr. Charles Burton tendered her his home. For a number of days I was her guest in the Burton home. One day I entered her room to find her reading the Book of Mormon. ° She Jooked up from the book and said in substance, Miss Reynolds, this book is an account of the life and doings of Oriental peoples written by Orientals, and not the life and doings of Occidental peoples written by. Occidentals. It never could have been written by any person or persons who were not of themselves part and portion of an Oriental civilization. Excerpt from an article entitled "The Land of 'The Dry Guillotine'," published in the magazine section of the New York Times of Sunday, July 3, 1927, "The mainland of French Guiana is mostly jungle—miles of it unexplored—with only a fringe of habitation along the coast and for a short distance up the main streams. Where there are settlements of any size they have grown up about one of the larger prisons of the great system. There are prisons at Cayenne and at Kourou, on the north coast; while radiating from St. Laurent, on the Maroni River, is a network of jungle prisons, where every night the men locked in their dormitories hear the wild, free chorus of the howling monkeys." It seems almost certain, does it not, that Maroni River is a corruption of Moroni River. Particularly does such a conclusion seem warranted when we take into consideration that we are talking of South America, where we should naturally expect to find Book of Mormon names. Lord Help Me Live By Mrs. W. R. Forkner Lord, help me live from day to day, In such a self-forgetful way, That even when I kneel to pray, My prayers will be for others. Help me in all the works I do To ever be sincere and true; And know that all I do for you Must needs be done for others. And then, when my work on earth is done, And my new work in Heaven begun, May I forget the crown I won While thinking still of others. Others, Lord, yes others, Let this my motto be Help me to live for others, That I may live like Thee.