[Vol5 | November 1918 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Editorial | Title: Patriotic Department]
fair  basis  of  comparison  such  an  expression  of  patriotic  allegiance 
for  every  man,  woman  and  child  of  the  Indian  race  must  be  as 
surprising  as  it  is  gratifying. 
"Official  information  is  not  assembled  respecting  the  number 
of  women  engaged  as  nurses  or  the  Indians'  participation  in  Red 
Cross  work.  A  complete  vocational  course  of  four  years  in  nurs- 
ing is  of  comparative  recent  introduction  in  our  larger  Indian 
schools,  so  that  only  limited  relief  service  from  this  source  is  prac- 
ticable. However,  quite  a  number  have  applied  and  been  accepted, 
among  them  six  young  ladies  from  one  of  the  large  schools  who 
have  had  excellent  training  and  have  been  assigned  to  hospital 
work  in  this  country  and  abroad. 
"Red  Cross  activities  have  been  carried  forward  usually  in 
cooperation  with  local  and  State  organizations.  The  Indian  Bur- 
eau haying  approved  this  plan,  has  not  instituted  official  connection 
therewith  further  than  to  urge  and  encourage  membership  and 
assistance  on  the  part  of  Indians  on  the  reservations  and  at  the 
schools.  There  are  in  the  Indian  Service  some  25  non-reservation 
schools  enrolling  more  than  10,000  pupils.  10  tribal  and  7Z  reserva- 
tion boarding  schools  with  more  than  12,000  pupils,  besides  210 
day  schools  and  77  mission  and  other  schools  furnishing  over 
12,000  additional  pupils,  in  all  some  30,000  Indian  pupils,  most 
of  whom  are  adding  their  mite  and  .doing  their  bit  in  this  great 
humane  movement.  There  are  about  30  school  publications, \^ith 
most  of  the  mechanical  and  considerable  of  the  literary  work 
done  by  Indian  students.  These  periodicals,  all  of  them  credit- 
able and  some  of  them  showing  highly  artistic  work  and  excellent 
editing,  now  usually  carry  Red  Cross  departments  that  disclose  a 
systematic  and  active  interest  among  the  schools,  carefully  directed 
and  equally  interested  employees. 
"The  record  in  course  of  preparation  upon  the  number.location, 
rank,  etc..  of  Indians  in  the  military  service  enables  me  quite  safely 
to  estimate  the  whole  number  now  at  approximately  8,000.     At