[Vol5 | November 1918 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]

EDITORIAL
. Motto  Charity Never Faileth

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor...Susa Young Gates Business Manager...Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager...Amy Brown Lyman
Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
Vol. V. NOVEMBER, 1918. No. 11.
SELFISHNESS
People who pity themselves are about the Self-Pity. most selfish, disagreeable, touchy, uncomfortable people in the world. Nothing is just right at home or abroad. Husbands are brutes  it is usually women who thus afflict homes and society  children are ungrateful, friends are neglectful and people generally are always "insulting" these self-centered, shallow creatures. A good man I knew once remarked jokingly that he did not carry his feelings around with him like a 'cat's tail,' waiting for one to tread on them. President Joseph F. Smith replied to a questioner, "I am never insulted, unless I am sure the other person deliberately intends to insult me."
Sometimes it happens that ill-health or deep Two Causes. sorrow casts a physical shadow over a woman who would otherwise be cheerful and comfortable. Even so, the whining self-pity will aggravate the disease or mental trouble, distract the family, drive the husband from home and gradually poison the springs of life in the sufferer herself and in all who come near her. Middle-aged women are often the victims of this pernicious habit. It is true, children are gone, making their own histories and are too busy to visit mother, take her for an auto ride or even to remember her birthday; husband is still making a living and is

busy in quorum and ward work. Mother may occupy no office in the Relief Society or other organization; she may be rather delicate in health, and so she cuddles herself with secret resentment because no one puts her in a public position, while her family forgets her; and thus she doubles her troubles and increases her ills. For such women temple work and genealogy is a heaven-sent boon. No one can or would hinder her from taking up an active work for her dead, and if she will do so she will soon forget her trouble, her aches and pains, and will achieve happiness, through both natural and divine means.
Forget yourself, nervous sufferers, for mer- Remedy. cy's sake, think of other people. No matter what your trouble may be, it will do you no good to talk about it, nor will it help your family or friends. If you have lost a baby, a son in the war, or you are a confirmed invalid, don't imagine it will help matters to talk about it. Have a quiet cry occasionally  that often helps. But remember your husband, your children, your friends, all have troubles of their own, and the recital of yours will not make theirs easier to bear. Don't be a spiritual piker! Be a brave soldier of the Cross. Get busy doing or saying something for others. Forget self. Shut the door on your complaints, open the windows of your soul to let in health and peace. Think and talk about building-up plans, constructive thoughts, hopeful thoughts, and soon you will have the joy of knowing you are helping friends and dear ones over difficulties, while your own sorrows and pains are lightened in the process. The Savior never performed a miracle to give Himself one single, selfish pleasure or release from pain. He performed all his miracles to convert, convince, relieve and heal others  not Himself. Can we not learn His lesson through His own example?
GOOD ADVICE TO WOMEN.
Do not be afraid to rest your feet. Sit down at your work whenever you can; a chair in the kitchen is a great foot conserver. One may walk all day long upon two feet without injury, but cannot stand perfectly still, as when paring the dinner vegetables, ironing the small pieces, etc., for a quarter of an hour without a crippling degree of fatigue and a risk of serious injury to the feet.  Chicago Daily News.
Life is made up of "chores."