Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon ULY—month of color and rejoicing when the fullness of bloom mingles its gorgeous colors with the emblems of the nation. MBE:: SUSA YOUNG GATES, brilliant daughter of Brigham Young, the pioneer, who recently died was generally recognized as one of the leading genealogists of America. She was also a_ wellknown writer of history and fiction. HE British sovereigns held five courts this spring. Forty American women were presented, the two daughters of Ambassador Bingham among them. UTH BRYAN OWEN'S reception by King Christian and his court at Copenhagen was colorful and marked by dignified ceremonies. After presenting her credentials, Mrs. Owen was received in special audience by the Queen. RS. LUCILLE F. McMILLEN of Tennessee has been appointed civil service commissioner. RS. D. B. DYER is mayor of Grover, Colo. This town has had a woman mayor and women members of the town board for the past two years and likes the woman rule. ELEN WILLS MOODY, America's tennis queen has a close rival in Helen Jacobs, another American star who has been a winner at the French singles. She as well as Mrs. Moody will play in the British championships. BABE DIDRIKSON, the Texas athlete, is out for more laurels, this time in the golf championship. ADY CYNTHIA MOSLEY died recently. She was the beautiful and wealthy wife of the English Fascist chief, Sir Oswald Mosley and was a forceful political colleague of her husband. UANA DE IBARBOUSON, poetess of Montevideo has been given a seat in the new national assembly of Uruguay. Her poems mark a new note in South American verse. BF UIZABETH CAMBRIDGE'S novel, ''Hostages to Fortune," was the June choice for the English Book Society. LADYS HASTY CARROLL in her new novel "As the Earth Turns," gives an intimate glimpse of New England farm life. The story was the book of the month for May. ALICE LEON MOATS has published a book entitled, ""No Nice Girl Swears," which contains other do's and dont's well worth bringing to the attention of the young daughter. HONORABLE DOROTHY BRETTS' story of her years in America called "Lawrence and Brett: A Friendship" is as charming as her popular novels. MARY BARTELIN, only woman. Judge in Chicago's juvenile court, served 12 years. For her excellent service over 2,000 people, high in judicial and political circles paid tribute to her on her retirement. RS. FLORENCE FARN SWORTH RICHARDS, the beautiful and accomplished wife of Dr. Gill Richards, whose tragic death is so deeply mourned, was the first woman to receive a master's degree from the University of Utah.