Susa Young Gates By Mary Grant Judd N May twenty-seventh, 1933, in the early morning hours, the Angel of Death softly, gently, closed the "life-book of Susa Young Gates. The pages of the book were many and each one filled to overflowing. For here was the record of a life of ceaseless activity—nearly four score years of tireless energy well used. Before he sealed the book, the angel scanned its contents o'er. And on the final page he wrote: "WELL DONE." SUSA YOUNG GATES, a daughter of Brigham Young and Lucy Bigelow Young, was born in Salt Lake City, March 18th, 1856. She was the first child born in the historic old Lion House, which, for many years was the residence of President Young and his family. Here Susa 'lived until she was fourteen years of age, when her father decided to move Lucy and her family to St. George. In later years, Sister Gates loved to come back to the Lion House which was always home to her. Here recently she often entertained her friends, "cafeteria style,” for she liked wholesome, plainly cooked food but cared nothing at all about formality. And here, on her birthdays, her family and associates met socially, enjoying evenings characteristic of "Aunt Susie," as we all loved to call her. These parties she gave in her own unique fashion for she never imitated anyone else. She was at home in any society and numbered among her friends some of them intimately, many people of note. But whether being entertained at court, as she was in London in 1899 when delegate to the International Women's Congress, or quietly encouraging some humble temple worker, which she loved to do, Aunt Susie was just herself, WE owe to Sister Gates many interesting reminiscences of life in the Lion House as it existed in early days. One might suppose that to house fifty or more people and feed them three times a day would be so great a task that little time would be left for the amenities of life. But such was not the case. Brigham Young was a thorough convert to the idea of communal family life. He taught his family order and obedience and from them received willing co-operation. As long as it was consistent with the pioneer mode of life, nothing for the comfort, happiness, and education of the children was forgotten. They were allowed to attend the Salt Lake Theatre frequently for, in those days, worthwhile drama was acted and understood. The children even planned their own amusing stage productions which their father sometimes humored them by attending. And if he found these efforts lacking in any particular, they were unaware of the fact. So anxious for their welfare was Brigham Young, that he provided them with such modern equipment as a private gymnasium and out-of-door sleeping porch. Showing aptitude for dancing, Susa was trained in this art, as well as that of music. In the book-cases of the Lion House parlor were many lovely volumes to be carefully taken out on Sunday afternoons and read with delight. Sister SUSA YOUNG GATES Gates tells us that she canot remember the time when she could not read fluently and intelligently. Her interest in books increased with the years, until during her lifetime she read literally hundreds of volumes. She was an indefatigable student of the scriptures and was also well versed in church history. Her literary labors have been voluminous. Stories, plays, poetry, editorials and essays have flowed steadily from her pen for over fifty years. ACROSS the road from the BeeHive house, the official residence of Brigham Young, a private school was established. Here the brilliant mind of young Susa received its first training. Later she attended the Brigham Young University at Provo, the University of Utah, and for one Summer was enrolled 2 Harvard University. Her chief means of education, however, came from her contacts with men and women. N later years her achievements were recognized in many ways. She was at one time a member of the board of regents of the State Agricultural College at Logan and for over forty years held a similiar position at the Brigham Young University at Provo. She was a member of the board at the time of her death. On numerous occasions she went as a delegate to both national and international councils of women and twice was assigned to speak before the. Assembled delegates, first, in Copenhagen in 1902, when she represented the international president and next, in Rome in 1914. GISTER GATES felt that it was the duty of women to understand what was going on in the world, to be interested in public affairs. She 401 took an active part in politics, believing that women should exercise their right of franchise intelligently. But it was in church work that she was most deeply interested and in which her greatest achievements were made. She had a faculty for far-sightedness with respect to the spiritual and intellectual needs of her sisters in the church. Having sensed the need, she lost no time in providing for it. Thus, in 1889 we find her founding the Young Woman's Journal (since combined with the Improvement Era and published under that name.) Its purpose was to give the young women of our church an oportunity to publish their compositions and to instruct them in church history and methods. For eleven years Sister Gates was editor of the Journal and besides carrying this responsibility, she shouldered some of the financial burden of the paper as well. If others failed, she would furnish many of the contributions under a variety of names, '"Homespun," being her best known nom-de-plume. In 1914 she became the editor of the Relief Society Magazine. She wrote the very first guide lessons for the Mutual Improvement Association and later wrote many of the Relief Society lessons. There is probably no woman in the church who understood more about genealogy or who did more to further its interests than did Susa Young Gates. She was an authority upon this subject. And she has set the example to all of us by doing the actual work for the dead in our temples. Right up to the time of her death at the age of 77, Sister Gates could be found five mornings out of seven at the 8:30 meetings of the temple workers. And when you stop to consider that before attending them she had left her small home in order, one begins to understand the irrepressible nature of her activities. 402 N connection with her genealogical work, Sister Gates becan: e much interested in biogiraphy writing. Her contribution to this field is the wonderful book, "The Life Story of Brigham Young." Besides being history interestingly told, this book portrays the affection given to an illustrious father by an illustrious daughter. Sister Gates gave her father credit, through his early teachings, for her successful home life. Olive Woolley Burt gives us this interesting side-light; "One of her father's favorite sayings was, 'Never humiliate a child.' So, when any reproof had to be administered, or any fault corrected, the mother was careful not to shame or ridicule the offender, but to talk to him as if he were a man grown with an intelligent understanding and whose sensibilities were sacred. Nor did she ever correct the children before others. Another saying of Brigham Young's was, 'Praise before blame.' This was incorporated into Mrs. Gates' policy in a very practical manner. Ifa child had done wrong, his mother began the correction with a word of praise for something fine and worthy. Tactfully the misdemeanor would be mentioned and disposed of, and the fine thing mentioned again, so that the child was left with a feeling that he was really good, and that his mistake was not irretrievable." For her mother, Lucy Bigelow Young, Sister Gates entertained a deep and reverent love. An extensive life of the mother has also been written by the daughter but is unpublished as is also a comprehensive treatise upon the history and activities of women in general and those of our church in particular. Thus Sister Gates set the example for the final inspirational move which she inaugurated, i. E., the women's biography division of the genealogical society. Here she instituted RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE classes to help those who wanted to write up their family histories but who perhaps felt that their training had been inadequate for such a task. This work was close to her heart and if she could give a parting message to the women of the church, no doubt it would be. "Sisters, do not delay. Gather up the interesting historical facts concerning your ancestors and set them down that they may be preserved for the benefit of those who come after. Write your own history as well for what may seem of little importance to you today may be of great historical significance in the future. This class was her last helpful gesture of a public nature of which so many had gone before. Sister Gates was too engrossed in the tasks she set herself to do to have a desire for many social contacts. Her associates and friends were largely those whom she felt that she could help or who sought her out, for encouragement or counsel. That her life had touched for good the life of many, many others was proved on the occasion of her funeral services when the Assembly Hall was filled with sorrowing people. Of confidential friends she had but few. One little group was especially dear to her heart. This comprised, with herself, six women, the others being, Elizabeth C. McCune, Alice K. Smith, Ann D. Groesbeck, Elizabeth S. Ivins and Augusta W. Grant. Often they met together at one another's homes for informal afternoons. One especially delightful occasion might prove interesting to the reader. Sister McCune, in 1917, lived in the spacious home since donated by herself and husband to the church and now occupied by the McCune school of music and art. In July of this year she invited "The Clique," as the little group called themselves, to spend a week with her. SUSA YOUNG GATES The husbands were not invited except to dinner on the Fourth of July. When the guests entered each one was presented with a simple gingham gown, which was to be the week's badge or uniform. Not even the married children of the hostess were allowed to enter the doors; one came to take a few snapshots of the party, but was not allowed over the threshold. Such a good time as these congenial friends had. "Aunt Susie's" great affection for her chosen friends was reciprocated by them. Both Sisters McCune and Groesbeck, before they died, evidenced their love for their companion. And the other three friends pay the following tributes. A Tribute to Our Beloved Friend and Sister Susa Young Gates. "Tn bidding you goodbye, dear Susa, my heart is touched. A feeling of loneliness and a spirit of reminiscence comes over me. I recall with pleasure the many M. I. A. Conventions we attended together. And, how fondly I remember our wonderful trip over the ocean and through Europe to Rome, where we attended the International Council of Women I recount with deep emotion the happy ten days spent in the Mansion on the Hill, the home of dear Elizabeth (McCune), where we ate, slept, visited and rode out together. Each day we were drawn more closely to each other in the everlasting bonds of friendship, and more solidly were we cemented together by the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We arranged ourselves according to age, and, thus far, according to age, we have been released from our mortal mission to return home to rest. However, not to rest in idleness, but to continue in the wonderful work begun here, where you, dear Susa, were never idle but ever in search 403 of truth, a devout teacher and leader in the cause of rightousness. "Your life is an inspiration to us all, and we look forward to a joyous reunion and a continuation of our labors of love throughout the ages of eternity. "Alice K. Smith." "Since the death of my dear friend Susa, I have gone back, in memory, many times over the sixty-three years of my acquaintance with her. So much has been said of her literary achievements and her unusual ability as an organizer, that it has almost crowded out other characteristics that were inherently hers and that stood out prominently even in her girlhood. Her success as a social leader, her keen sense of humor, and her general versality, stamped her personality on all who knew her particularly during her early life. "My acquaintance with her began when she came, at the age of 14 years, with her mother and sisters, to make her home in St. George. She was from Salt Lake City, the daughter of President Brigham Young who was my ideal and we young people stood, somewhat, in awe of her. Soon, however, we discovered that she was very approachable and anxious to join in our religious and social gatherings. Perhaps I could more properly say lead out in these things for that is what she did, even at that early date. If we needed someone to accompany a song on the organ, she was there to do it; if we wanted someone to read, she could do that. She acted as leading lady many times, with our amateur dramatic company, headed by Miles P. Romney, in such plays as "The Bottle and 'Rough Diamond.' "The thing she seemed to enjoy 404 most was to sing. 'Barbara Fritchie' seemed to give vent to her fine feeling of patriotism, which she always possessed. Her sense of humor led her to choose numerous songs such as "Tassels on Her Boots' and 'Lords of Creation' which ran like this: "The Lords of creation, men we call, "They think they rule the whole. World, But they're much mistaken after all, For they're under woman's control," etc., etc. "The sense of justice which she felt so early in life, grew with her until she became one of the most ardent advocates of woman's suffrage the state has produced, and which led to her personal acquaintance with such women as Susan B. Anthony, Anna Howard Shaw, May Wright Sewell, Clara Barton and others. Susa's early girlhood gave promise of just the type of womanhood into which she grew—forceful capable, dependable, and above all a staunch friend. In her death I have lost one of my oldest and choicest friends. "Elizabeth S. Ivins." "T appreciate the privilege of writing this tribute to my friend of many years. She singled me out as a friend and led the way for me to accomplish many things which I perhaps would not have started myself. I have her to thank for the publication of my mother's life, which, but for her, might still be lying just as mother wrote it. Now it is in book form and highly prized by all our family. This is but one example of inspirational suggestions made to me by Sister Gates. I am one of many others whom she has benefited and in whom she has taken a personal interest. She accomplished a wonderful work among the women of her church and I am sure her great qualRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ities will be better known and appreciated as time goes on. "I cannot refrain from saying a word about Sister Gates' two daughters.—Leah, brilliant and gifted, has willingly aided her mother in many of her literary efforts. She now stands by the side of her distinguished husband who presides over the European mission. Our hearts go out to her in sympathy at this time hoping that the lack of home and loved ones may be made up to her by the Father of all: and Emma-Lucy whom most of us know only as a prima-donna, with her fine character and devotion to her dear ones. She would give herseirt and everything she has to her family, especially when there is sickness. 'Wonderful' is the only word to describe her and what she does. "T have become well acquainted with Sister Gates' husband, 'Uncle Jacob,' a man loved by all who know him. Modest and kind hearted, he yet takes his place as head of his family. Not caring for public life, he has always been content to sit back and let his much appreciated and honored companion do the things which she enjoyed and which he did not care so much about. 'Uncle Jacob' loves the society of his fine sons and daughters, and on the occasion of his birthday celebrations which took place at Brighton, in Big Cottonwood Canyon, enjoyed having them with him. I was always included in these intimate groups, a courtesy which I appreciated very much. "As I think of Sister Gates, my thoughts turn naturally to lovely Brighton, for here perhaps, I knew and loved 'Susie' best. Here thirty years ago, we planned and built upon a hill, our log cabins, which still stand side by side. Here our families have spent their summers and in all the years no hint of unpleas- SOUSA YOUNG GATES antness has ever come to mar our happy friendship. As time sped on, and our families grew up and married, these places were more than we cared to keep up, so we have turned them over to our daughters and chosen smaller cottages farther down the hill. And between those houses a well-worn path has come. 'Susie' has always seemed to me to be part of Brighton and the place will never be the same without my friend. "Augusta W. Grant." 405 If the great purpose of life on earth is to gain experience then truly has Susa Young Gates lived richly and well. Thirteen children will call her mother in the world to come. Eight of these preceded her in death. After the sorrow of parting what joy of reunion must have been hers to meet these "Whom she had loved long since and lost awhile." May we all live so that we shall enjoy her companionship in the life to come.