Susa Young Gates
IN the death of Susa Young Gates there passed from the earth life a remarkable woman. She lived a long, active life full of achievement. Devoted to the Church and to her sex, she worked assiduously along many lines. Her writings have made her known throughout the Church. The Young Woman's Journal came as a result of her seeing the place it would fill in encouraging young writers and giving good clean reading to women. She was its first editor and continued in this position for years. She was also the first editor of the Relief Society Magazine, the successor to the Woman's Exponent. Her life of her illustrious father, President Brigham Young, is a valuable contribution to Mormon literature. She tried to get people interested as widely as possible in genealogy and in Temple work. During the last years of her life she put forth great energy in getting women to write their own biographies and those of their family. While her loved ones will miss her keenly, they will be grateful that she lived so long and was active to the last year of her unusual life. The results of her activities will continue to lead her people into energetic action.
What About the Woman?
THE CHRISTIAN SCIENCE MONITOR points out that the world has always leaned toward a dramatization of its problems. It has set up figures of the man with the hoe, the man in the street, the unknown soldier and the forgotten man. Sweden calls attention to a group greater in number than any that have yet been represented by a lay figure. This group has had little publicity save for a slight tribute now and then. The General Swedish Electric Company on the occasion of its fiftieth anniversary announces that it has set aside a fund of $100,000 to provide vacations for the wives of small salaried employees of the company. Commenting on this splendid act of the Electric Company the Monitor says: "Someone should outline a figure to represent the woman behind the factory whistle, whose work begins long before the workers take their places at machine or bench, and continues long after the spindle and lathe are silent; whose work year runs into 365 days, who is the first one to feel the pinch when work fails, and the last one to benefit by a pick-up. Should such a figure be drawn in its proper scale, it would perhaps make pygmies of the four already mentioned."
Wedding Announcements
THE observance of the correct social forms is never more important than in the matter of wedding invitations or announcements. Here you are certain of the newest and smartest.
One Hundred $2.50 Priced at
The Deseret News Press
Complete Suits for Men and Women?Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices
 , Utah
29 Richards Street Telephone Wasatch 3286 Salt Lake City
HEBER J, GRANT GEO, Q CANNON g. T. RALPHS A. W. IVINS B. F, GRANT DAVID o, MCKAY J. REUBEN CLARK, R. JOS. F, SMITH 4. B. C. OHLSON The RELIEF SOCIETY AZAZINGE