Leadership By Elise B. Alder HE responsibility of being a leader is so great and the opportunities for helpfulness to our fellow men, and developments for ourselves so many that the task of leadership is one that is worthy of the finest and best women. So great is the undertaking that many of us shrink from it fearing we can not measure up to the requirements. But in our Church we are often called by inspiration and a true Latter-day Saint with a strong testimony, (although she realizes she does not possess all the qualifications) will not waver, as she knows if she is humble and steadfast in her purpose, is conscientious in the discharge of her work and will study out her duty and prepare her mind, seeking in true humility the blessings and guidance of her Heavenly Father she will succeed. Alice Ames Winter says, "Leadership may be developed like any other spiritual or intellectual faculty. It begins with seeing that some great thing needs doing, and throwing oneself fervidly into the doing of it, with forgetfulness of self. She must believe in herself and believe in other people and believe in the thing for which she is working and believe in them so hard that she does not question or hesitate. She must be lavish with the best that is in her." As attributes for leadership she gives: Spiritual: 1. Ambition for accomplishment rather than position.. Courage.. Genuineness.. Real love for human beings.. Personal magnetism.. Clear thinking. NAmb WhY) Executive: 1. Power to get people to work together harmoniously. 2. Knowledge of methods. 3. Fair play. 4. Understanding of community needs. 5. Ability to convince others. The power of example is very useful in establishing loyalty. The most important for her to give is one of earnestness of purpose and interest in the work. To this end she may do much by the power of her own example in cheerfully carrying out the instructions from higher authority. She should accept the full responsibility of her superior officers and take her co-workers loyally and unquestioningly through the work. Any questioning before her workers of the wisdom of instructions given her from the General Board would injure the fine spirit of loyalty and cooperation that makes for successful auxiliary work. The nature of her work will determine the amount of dignity which must go with the office but in every case there is a certain dignity which all must find in their leaders to which they will instinctively give their respect. To attain the confidence and respect of her sisters she must acquire understanding and knowledge, therefore, she should never appear before her sisters unprepared. She should plan her work and then work her plan. In other words she must work out clearly in her own mind and life the fundamental things that have to be learned. She will probably make a few interesting discoveries as to her own nature, before she learns to organization LEADERSHIP practice what she preaches and become what she wants her sisters to become. - She must know herself that it is the mark of a small selfcentered nature to be exclusive. One who is able to include many people in her interests possesses nobility of character and shows a measure of sympathetic understanding such as only a great nature can express. Tact (the ability to deal with others without offending) is one of the greatest aids that a leader can acquire if based upon correct sympathy and understanding. She should avoid cliques or sets, if she does not the unity will be destroyed and where there is no unity the strength that is so necessary for good work will be gone. This lesson was taught me in my youth by my father. When I was eleven years old my father took his family to the country for the summer season, and while there was called to be Counselor to the Bishop of the Ward. Later he was called to be Bishop of a newly made Ward, purchased a home and immediately set about beautifying the surroundings. He planted trees and a large lawn in front of the home and while doing so he said to my sister and me, "When the lawn comes up you may have a 'lawn party.' My sister and I began planning from that time and when the lawn was ready we went forward with our plans, made out our list of guests, etc., and father asked what they were and when we told him and handed him the list of names of those we were going to invite he read it over and immediately exclaimed what about so and so and so and so, we said 'Oh father we don't want them." He replied, "My girls I am the Bishop and the father of this Ward and unless you are willing to invite all the children of your ages (which by the way was possible as the Ward was 433 small) I fear you will have to give up the idea of having your party." Suffice it to say, we went on with our party. All those of our age were invited and a very enjoyable time was had.: Do not be too serious, a smile, a little humor and praise will go a long way and often change the whole course of events. A word of cheer and encouragement lifts one up and helps more than we realize. It is the spirit that makes the soldier do and dare. "A military leader took his regiment out one morning on the field to drill, some of the boys were feeling discouraged and blue, they went about only half hearted. Right in the hardest part of their drill the leader called out 'Good.' The boys' spirits rose immediately with the praise of their leader, and their work was made lighter." The leader who truly appreciates this phase of human nature and intelligently uses it in her work has taken a long step toward success. The average leader does not always know how great are the possibilities open to her for enriching the lives of her sisters through wise instructions. If she is skillful she tries to make suggestions that will cause her sisters to work out problems with some degree of originality whenever possible always allowing them the credit. Avoid personal criticism especially in public, rather praise all the good leaving the corrections to be made on the side. _ Decision arrived at without due consideration oft times proves detrimental to the work in hand. She should be patient, never lose heart no matter how trying the work may seem. If she is firm and strong and absolutely fair those under her will usually respond loyally to her suggestions. Many so-called leaders make the mistake of doing too much of the work themselves. Naturally 434 it takes time to instruct and show what is expected, but let the question be thoroughly understood and the practical application of the principle be individually worked out. The more she can get to work the bigger the interest and the stronger will her organization become. A man who visited President Coolidge at the White House reported this in favor of leadership. He said, "I had commented on how well he was looking" and he replied, "I am feeling well and the reason is that I am taking care of myself. That doesn't mean taking any particular exercise, but using my energy in the manner which will make it most effective. Whenever a problem comes before me the first thing I say to myself is, Isn't there some one who can do this as well as I can? And you would be surprised how often I find some one else who can do it better. That saves me for problems which only I can decide." Obviously one can achieve skill in leading only by doing it, not by reading about it or seeing it done and his interest and pleasure in the work will increase if the natural desire for self-expression is encouraged. Attention should be given to those who need it most and gradually get all to grow together and form one big union. The leader should inspire those she leads to big and noble things. Her sisters know that what she requires is reasonable. They feel that she is regarding their welfare in every move making their work as easy as possible. It is often good to forget one's self, but when difficulties or indifferences come, strange as it may seem, the first thing for a leader to do in a case of this kind concerns herself alone. She must fill herself with a strong desire to understand, to get the sister's point of view, to show nothing but a kind and loving spirit and try to bridge RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE over the estrangement. Keep her heart full of love and an earnest desire to overcome evil with good, being just, remembering there is always two sides to every question, and keeping the golden rule as her guide and she need never fear the outcome. But if she can not control her own spirit and has no standards to follow how can she expect to calm and sooth and direct her sisters who may never have learned the first thing about personal discipline and self-control. Every leader probably has to deal with lack of reliability in some of her sisters, as officers or committee members. They fail to attend to what is assigned them. How to cultivate in them a sense of responsibility and spirit of faithfulness is a problem which calls for all the wisdom that a leader can acquire. Here it is easy to fall into the mistake of nagging and faultfinding. Make her feel that she is being absolutely counted upon, show love and interest for her, praising the good which is always found in all God's children and the day is won. Faith in co-workers is the secret of power and influence as a leader. Use judgment in choosing committees, study dispositions and assign them to what they are best adapted. Often backward members develop into splendid members of Boards and oft time make good leaders through the encouragement given by a tactful president. A little hint from the leader some times, only a shake of the head, a smile, or a nod of encouragement, will help oh so much, and put new life into her workers. She should not allow any of her meetings to become dull and dragging or careless or disorderly. Everything being planned before will avoid all this, but should little things come up to disturb the meeting—for instance a baby crying—say "the LEADERSHIP dear babies how we love them,"' do not spoil the spirit of the meeting or make the poor mother feel worse by looking cross. Learn to grasp the situation and quickly and quietly get things back to normal. When a speaker fails to meet his or her appointment, here if ever, there is a challenge to the leader's resourcefulness. If she is wise she will anticipate such an emergency and will always keep something ready ahead of time as a housekeeper does on her emergency shelf so as not to be caught unprepared. She should not spend time talking about the disappointment. Her sisters feel it as keenly as she and if there is no one present who can intelligently handle the subject, she should get busy have the understanding with her chorister so complete that with just a look or nod of the head she will have her choir or the congregation sing one of our inspiring hymns which will prepare for the best meeting we have—Testimony. In conclusion, I would like to bring to your minds one of the most 435 remarkable incidents of leadership the world has ever known, that of the simple peasant maiden who is called Joan of Arc. To her while but a young girl dwelling in her native village, there came voices and visions bidding her arise and save France. After a time she became so very sure that this was indeed no silly fancy but the very bidding of God, that she began to persuade those about her to believe it. She went to the place where the King was, and though men mocked at her at first, yet soon they were convinced by her purity and her earnestness that she had indeed been raised up to deliver the land, and the King sent her clothed in white armor, at the head of a troop of horsemen to the town of Orleans, which the English were besieging. She drove them back from the walls. The rude soldiers with that selfless and stainless maid for their captain learned to feel shame for all foul speech and foul thought and followed her as a leader sent from Heaven on to victory.