Alice Fielding Butterworth A Pioneer Business Woman By Annie Wells Cannon "She looketh well to the ways of her household and eateth not the bread of idleness." HE above proverb is most applicable to the subject of this sketch, for she spent her days in useful and diligent pursuits. Unlike many women of her generation she had the happy faculty of combining successfully a business career with the art of homemaking. Alice Fielding Butterworth was born December 10, 1840 in the town of Oldham, Lancashire, England. Her parents, James Fielding and Anne Henthorn Fielding were among the early converts to the Mormon faith in England. One of Alice's first recollections was the sorrow the Saints felt when the word reached them in England of the cruel death of the Prophet Joseph Smith. She was crying about it in the street, when a stranger passing by stopped and said, "Why are you crying little girl? And she answered, "Because they have killed that good man in America." She was then just four years old. Her parents dealt in merchandise and sold coal and other supplies, and this little girl used to deliver these products, going along the way with the bags loaded on the back of a donkey. Sometimes the load would fall off, then little Alice would wait by the roadside for some kind soul to come along and offer help. She never felt to give up or turn back. This trait so early manifested was characteristic of her through life. As a child she also worked in a velvet factory so her schooling was mostly in life's hard road of work and experience. AMES FIELDING emigrated to America with his family in 1854. They were seven weeks on the Atlantic in a sailing vessel, arriving in the Salt Lake valley 3 months later, October 24, 1854. They crossed the plains in William Empey's company and Alice, now a girl of 14, walked all the way. In the same company was her sister Betty and husband Edmund Butterworth and their little son John. Her sister gave birth to a second baby on the way and she and the little one died and were buried in an unmarked grave on the wayside. This was a sorrow hard for the family to endure, especially so under the conditions of hardship. Sustained only by their unfaltering faith they traveled on towards the Zion they expected to find. FTER reaching the valley the struggle to make a home and livelihood continued under many adverse circumstances for a long time. The humble fare consisted of pigweeds and Indian potatoes. During this period Alice made every effort to help her family at any task she could find to do. She wore the simplest clothing, her best dress, a calico print, while other times she wore denim, but she was always scrupulously clean and neat. She earned 75 cents a week when calico was 75 cents a yard; sugar a dollar  ALICE FIELDING BUTTERWORTH a pound, and flour a luxury hard to obtain at any price. ANUARY 3rd, 1857, Alice was married to Edmund Butterworth and took to her care the little motherless boy of her dead sister Betty. Their first home a one room house with a floor of broad boards laid about an inch and a half apart, and furniture of the simplest kind consisting mostly of packing boxes, one of which served for a wardrobe and table combined; one tin pan always shining like silver served many uses. And industrious in the extreme, she made all her own candles and soap; did her own sewing, laundry, and cleaning and was proud of her shining kitchenware which shone with She was thrifty, economical - the luster of her silver of later years. Her table had its center piece of flowers and was as dainty as she could make it at all times. N this humble home Alice started a store and thus began a business career which culminated finally in her being known far and wide as one of the cleverest and shrewdest business women in the west. She was a very excellent cook and supplied her store with her own freshbaked bread for which she made her own yeast. This bread was in such demand that it became quite a lucrative part of the business, so she taught her oldest daughter, Sarah, this fine art and while the mother tended the business of the little store, the daughter brewed the yeast ALICE FIELDING BUTTERWORTH and baked the famous "Butterworth Bread." HE business grew and became sO prosperous that a new store was built on an advantageous corner some distance from the home. Mrs. Butterworth with her store well established made other investments. She was among the early subscribers to Z. C. M. I. Stock: A very interesting story is connected with this purchase. She had always taken care of her profits at home, not providing a safe or depositing in any bank or other security place so when she was asked to subscribe to this stock, she went over to her home, secured five hundred dollars from a tin can and made her first investment in this prosperous institution. She later increased her stock very materially from which she received yearly dividends with much satisfaction. In the same way she saved the money for her first piano which she purchased as soon as_ her daughter Sarah was old enough to take lessons.; She also increased her real estate holdings and built a number of houses to rent in a place named Butterworth Court. RS. BUTTERWORTH had very decided opinions, both religious and civic, mingled largely with sentiment. When it looked as though the "Old Fort" square in the 6th Ward was about to become the site of a railroad station, and pass from city ownership to the Salt Lake & Los Angeles Railroad Company, she made several visits to the City Council to protest. She invited the citizens of the west side to hold indignation meetings and prepare petitions of protest. Her efforts, combined with others finally triumphed, and now this spot where stood the 421 first rude homes of the Pioneers, where the first school was taught, has become a beauty spot with its lawns and flower beds, its welcome shade, its playgrounds and tennis courts known as Pioneer Park. A® her wealth increased she was not tnmindful of her obligations as a good citizen and a Latterday Saint. She furnished a room in the Groves L. D. S. Hospital when that institution was established. She donated liberally to the Temple and was an honest tithepayer and conscientious contributor to her ward and the Relief Society. Though much engaged in her various business affairs she found time to work in the Relief Society and was a member of the presidency in the capacity of both second and first counselor for many years. She was proud to bear testimony to the truth of the Gospel, especially when meeting strangers who sometimes looked with disfavor on her people, and she spent much time explaining the principles of the Gospel and describing the early struggles of the pioneers with which she was only too familiar. She very much enjoyed conversational contests, calling forth her wit and quick response and was not averse to an occasional political argument for she was an earnest supporter of 'the people's party in old Territorial days, later after statehood, becoming an ardent Democrat. N 1893 Mrs. Butterworth was a member of President Wilford Woodruff's party which accompanied the Tabernacle Choir to the World's Fair in Chicago. A trip she very much enjoyed and loved to talk about in later years. Notwithstanding these many public duties Mrs. Butterworth was not neglectful of the comforts of home 422 life, and as her means allowed, provided the home with modern conveniences and rich and comfortable furnishings. She possessed a pleasing personality, frank, good natured, and kindly and naturally made many friends. ROM the above writing, one might think she accomplished all these things alone, but such is not the case. Hers was the aggressive, business disposition to put over big things, but her dear husband, Edmund Butterworth and her dutiful children upheld and helped her in all her undertakings. Edmund Butterworth was a most worthy man, an Elder in the Church, whom she dearly loved and counseled with in all things, but in his more retiring nature, his part while equally important was less conspicuous, The home life in which father, mother, and children all shared was pleasant. There were born to this worthy couple 18 living children, but only four grew to maturity. FL, DMUN D BUTTERWORTH was a member of the state militia known in early days as the Nauvoo Legion and was engaged in the winter of 1857 in the Echo Canyon War, the campaign which prevented Johnston's Army from entering the valley until negotiations for peace could be made with the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE government. He engaged in the making of adobies for the pioneer homes and most of the adobies used in the walls of the old Salt Lake Theatre were from his yard. An interesting story is connected with his building activities. One day in company with Jimmie Watson, an uncle of Bishop James Watson of the 6th Ward, they were building a road up City Creek Canyon. When Mr. Butterworth moved one of the large stones, two great boulders became loosened and started to roll down the mountain side. He barely escaped from its path with his life, and the huge rock finally landed in the center of the creek thus forming that picturesque feature of City Creek Canyon, known as Natural Bridge. Edmund Butterworth died August 10, 1904. N her widowhood Mrs. Butterworth gave more time to Church duties and social association, having passed some of the burdens of her extensive business affairs to her children. She died August 25, 1916. This worthy couple left 5 children, the oldest son John, whose mother died on the plains, and Sarah, wife of Ranch Kimball, Margaret, wife of Ernest Wright, Robert F. Butterworth and Edwin F. Butterworth, 15 grandchildren, 28 great grandchildren, 3 great great grandchildren.