ALTHOUGH many of us would consider the economic aspects of college education as of first importance, there are others who believe in different purposes. I recall that a friend of my school days was married at the end of her first year of college. Her mother remarked triumphantly to mine: "Well, it's too bad your daughter didn't get a man the first year. Now you'll have to send her back to college." At the time I was astonished to think that any mother would send her daughter to college for the purpose of making a match. But eventually being able to do the same thing myself, the advantages of a college marriage became immediately apparent.
It is interesting in this regard to examine the work of authorities who have assembled statistics tabulating the results of marriages made in college. Rita S. Halle, who made for Good Housekeeping Magazine a detailed and careful study of the alumni of colleges throughout the country, reported an average of one divorce in every seventy-five marriages. Dr. Paul Popenoe of the Los Angeles Institute of Family Relations, in a more recent investigation, arrived at the same ratio—one divorce to seventy-five college marriages. No doubt our local institutions could discover an even better average. When we consider that some of the States offer such astounding records as one divorce to every five or six marriages, the college divorce ratio is more than significant.
Miss Halle, in explaining her results, reasoned that most college marriages are the result of tried and true friendships, not immature, emotional affairs of being in love with love. College wives have interests of their own, Miss Halle maintained, and they are not, as a rule, jealous of the husband's work for they understand more about professional demands. They help the husband to get ahead by sharing ambitions and lifting more of the load than an untrained woman, however willing, could lift. The long list of happy college marriages is topped by the names of Ex-President and Mrs. Hoover, whose romance is one of the stories still told on the Stanford University campus.
"PROFOUND ignorance of any important byway of civilization may be found a definite impediment to personal progress." The woman in her home and the mother among her children find a deep well of help in the things they have learned in college. Of course they forget many facts, but they acquire an eagerness to know and an ability to find the information they want. These attributes may be found in women who have not had the advantages of much formal education, but such cases are not so common.
A busy young matron summarized somewhat haphazardly a few of the elements she found of practical use. "The other day I had to work out a diet rich in iron for the baby," she said, "and I could do it. Another occasion came up. In college I learned about the reproduction of flowers and my James adores the story. It prepares him for a proper knowledge of the life forces. Yes, and Margaret needed to know about the Idylls of the King for English class, and I was a regular encyclopedia on the subject. She's been extra proud of me since then. And only the other day my husband wanted a list of the newest aniline dyes and I found it for him. I may have forgotten most of what I learned in college but what remains is worth all the time and money."
Children are severe critics. They expect perfection in their parents and it is difficult for them to understand why father and mother can't answer all their questions. The social and cultural values of college education are not easy to measure but they are none the less evident. Students are exposed to cultural forces, although the "absorbing" abilities of young people are extremely varied. A love for culture in general is fostered in the college—the speaking of correct English, an ease and confidence in conversation, an appreciation of music and the fine arts, a pleasing manner in meeting people. All these matters may be labeled "useless veneer," but she who lacks them is always at a disadvantage whatever her station in life. However, a determined and ambitious woman may build for herself outside of college her own house of culture.
IN the field of Church activity, also, the trained individual is better prepared for leadership. If we should make a list of the scout leaders, recreational directors, dancing and athletic teachers, and seminary principals, to say nothing of the long role of active and efficient teachers who help to do the work of the wards, we would find that college training has contributed immeasurably to the effectiveness of Church work. There is, however, some truth in the charge that college leads many away from religion. It cannot be denied that college, particularly the scientific courses, change the attitude toward religion. But if parents have laid a deep and wide foundation of faith, the college does not take it away. Many of our apostles and other Church leaders are college trained men. It is not what the college teaches, but the material it works with that causes chaos in religious ideals.
IT is safe to say that our colleges are sending out large numbers of students equipped with high ideals and a knowledge of the needs of the world. And not only to men but also to women is the maintenance of the lamp of civilization given. Whether or not we regard women's participation in civil life as the ideal situation, such participation is undoubtedly here to stay. Professor Anthony F. Blanks of the University of California is perhaps too radical when he says: "If women continue their progress, which seems likely now, it is no more than logical to assume that within the next two generations they will be in control of affairs." Colonel House, who has had opportunity to become an authority on the subject, in a recent statement remarked: "It is doubtful whether we shall ever reach that goal dreamed of by seers and saints, but when government is measurably directed by women we shall come nearer to it than we have in the past.... Grant them the power and they will give the world peace, or come as near to it as is humanly possible." Colonel House discusses a number of women prominent in civic affairs and gives the opinion that he regards it as quite possible for women to be expert wives and mothers and still be of service in other ways. He cites the wife of President Roosevelt as an outstanding example. A glance at Utah's "legislative" women would no doubt substantiate the view of Colonel House.
IF, then, women are to play an important part in the direction of world affairs, they need training for these duties. Some women are brilliant enough to acquire much necessary information outside of college, but even such unusual minds could be even more adequately "furnished" by youthful participation in debating, student government, courses in history, law, and public speaking.
Let us say again that college should prepare for the whole span of life, its contingencies and emergencies. The problem of the woman beyond middle age requires much wisdom to solve. Look about you and note the number of women who are "alone," that is, their children are married and have (or ought to have) homes of their own. Of course they come to mother for visits or for help, but such irregular and fleeting interests do not fill the lives of women who have been accustomed to the unceasing work of raising a family. Before the children leave the home nest mothers are often so much occupied with physical work that they have not had time to consider "self development" in other ways. Then comes the "let down." It may be true that some women are glad to "just rest," but they are certainly not numerous. We all of us know tragic examples of women who are trying late in life to acquire "interests" and even professions. But the time of ready adjustment is long past. It is far better to acquire the saving "hobbies" in our youth, for then they are likely to last forever, submerged, perhaps, in the busy days of young motherhood, but there, nevertheless to be brought out and polished up at need.
A WOMAN once addressed a group of girl graduates in this way: "I congratulate you upon one priceless possession which nothing can take away from you, one real asset which no economic or intellectual changes can make less valuable: ten or twenty or thirty years from now you will be the youngest group of women for your age in the country." The lecturer went on to explain that the four added years of youth which college gives yield compound interest for they secure an everlasting "teachable" attitude of mind. And the "hobbies" and interests acquired in college days, whether they be botany, art, music, or writing, are the gates to activities that free the older woman from the great loneliness that so many fear.
Dr. Lillien J. Martin, who, fifteen years ago, was retired from the faculty of Stanford University, is now at the age of eighty-two still a consulting psychologist, working especially with old people who have lost their interest in life. "What I particularly want to emphasize," she says, "is that the old person must have a goal." For most women, and it is becoming increasingly true, the occasional sight of a grandchild or the visits of one's children, are by no means sufficient interests to fill the long days of the downward slope of the hill. Neither can housekeeping for two make a full life for many women. There must be other activities that are interesting to the individuals, and in most cases these activities cannot be put on like new clothes. For real service they should be like seeds planted long ago and now become sturdy trees of great support. The college girl of today may acquire interests that will make the latter part of her life a "glowing" period of activity instead of merely "marking time" until the end, as seems to be the lot of some old people.
In conclusion it may be said that "colleges are not super-kindergartens where parents can send their children to be nursemaided, nor corrective institutions where their characters can be made over on a model preferable to that which they themselves have built. Nor can parents expect colleges to act as police forces devoting themselves to the enforcement of a discipline that they themselves were unable to maintain."