' Your Home Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Luke VI—THE WINbDow TREATMENT FTER the completion of the A fixed background the next most important thing to consider is the treatment of the windows. The window is the connecting link between the home life within and the outside world. The window hangings are the link which relate the background of a room to its furnishings. The window is primarily to admit light and air, and this purpose should never be overlooked nor interfered with in its decoration. Windows are draped to temper light, insure privacy, shut out draughts and to lend artistic charm. A room without curtains is bare and unattractive. Curtains lend the finishing touch, soften hard lines, break the monotony of flat surfaces, and the rays of sunlight are more delightful and harmonious when filtered through dainty mesh. Four fundamental principles to keep in mind always in connection with designing curtains are: First: They must conform to the architectural features of the window. Remember the window is the important thing—not the drapes. If the window casing is very lovely it should not be covered, but the curtains set inside the frame. This will also give the window a recessed effect which is more desirable than projecting it out into the room. Second: Keep them suitable to the need of the room in which they are used. For instance a bedroom would demand more simple and dainty curtains than would a library. A drawing room would necessarily call for formal and elaborate window treatment. Third: They must be harmonious in scale, texture, color and material to the room and its furniture. To illustrate: In a room in which only rough textures were used it would be decoratively disastrous to put drapes of brocade or taffeta and curtains of fine net or celenese which suggest that they be used with mahogany and enamel. Fourth: Keep them as simple as possible. Overloaded, excessively trimmed, draped, frilled and beaed curtains are never successful. By the clever handling of curtains bad proportions may be ap- 406 parently overcome. If the window is too narrow for the room it can be made to appear wider by hanging the drapes over on the wall at each side of the window, showing the full expanse of glass between. If the room is high it can be lowered in appearance by a deep valance, and by curtains which come only a little below the sill. If the room is too low height may be given by drapes that come to the floor or by the use of striped drapes, or by setting the valance above the window itself. Light curtains make the room appear larger; dark or patterned drapes decrease the apparent size. CURTAINS may be divided into three classes: | First: The glass curtain which is usually of sheer texture and hangs close to the glass. Second: The over-curtains or drapes—the decorative side hanging, with or without a valance. Third: The under-curtains which are sometimes used between the drapes and glass curtains. The glass curtains are often the only kind needed, especially in small homes or informal rooms. Overdrapes, for instance, if used in bathrooms would suggest lack of restraint in decoration. There are very many lovely materials which may be used for glass curtains such as dotted swiss, net, batiste, voile, organdy, chiffon, georgette, etc. In the sheers or casement cloth, theatrical gauze, and pongee in the more or less opaque materials to be used where extreme privacy is needed or it is desirable to shut out the view from the window. Turkish toweling or rubberized taffeta make very serviceable yet attractive curtains for the bathroom. White glass curtains are very suitable in a home where the woodwork is white inside RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and out. As a general rule, however, creams, beige, ivory, oyster white and pastel colors are more desirable as the light coming through them is not so harsh and the colors are in harmony with the furnishings. In order to give a uniform appearance to the outside of the house it is not only necessary that they harmonize in color, but that the glass curtains of all windows be of the same material, especially those fronting the same street. Or a satisfactory effect may be secured by having the curtains on the upper floor of one material such as dotted swiss and the lower of net or marquisette. Glass curtains hung inside the window casing should hang to the sill, also where there is an extended sill. Curtains hung on the outside of the frame—whether there are drapes or not—should hang to the edge of the apron or three or four inches below the sill. To make tailored glass curtains use material one and one-half or two times the width of the window and long enough to come to the sill or below, then allow at least four inches for hems. Cut off the selvage along the edge. To leave it on does not give a well-tailored curtain as it will not shrink with the rest of the curtain and so will not hang properly. Use a double one inch hem on each side. Have a two inch hem at bottom and top. Stitch through the center at the top for heading. All glass curtains should have a heading whether they are covered with a valance or not or they will look like amateur work. Sheer curtains should be hemmed by hand. Organdy is very attractive hemstitched and georgette picoted. Ruffles on swiss or voile curtains are pretty. Plain glass curtains are in most YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL instances more attractive than those containing considerable pattern. Especially is this so when drapes are used. If there is pattern in the drapes the glass curtains must be plain. The two must not conflict in scale, or texture, and the over-curtains must also be kept in mind when introducing color into the glass curtains or their trim. The glass curtains are primarily to temper light and to secure privacy, but the drapes do this and more. They are important decoratively as they are practically the only vertical mass of color—a connecting line between floor and ceiling—and if properly planned they will hold the scheme of a room together. It is a safe rule to not have them the strongest note in the color scheme unless the room is wholly without character except for the window. It may then become a center of interest and treated in an exceptional manner. N choosing material for drapes there are many points to consider. First, perhaps, is the color, which should be in harmony with the room and its exposure. The next problem is whether it should be plain or patterned. If the walls have pattern in them the drapes must be plain. If the walls are plain figured design in the drapes provides interest. If pattern is chosen it should be in scale with the size of the room. The personality expressed in the material must also be considered. For instance, if it has dainty colors, flowers, and ribbon knots it would suggest a girl's room. Study the type of design. Know the suitability of certain fabrics for every room. Next it must be harmonious in texture. Many people use silks where cotton would be much more appropriate. Even if money doesn't matter use the correct material for 407 the room. And always use a good grade of cotton rather than cheap silk. Never buy any material for drapes until you try it in the place where it is to be used, and in folds as it will hang as the pattern often appears different than when hanging straight. Some materials that are suitable for drapes in formal rooms are brocade, damask, brocatelle, velvet and taffeta in silks or silk and wool. Chintz, toile de Jouy, rep, poplin, faille, taffeta and upholsterers or antique satin as well as simple brocades would be suitable in Colonial rooms or those furnished in a similar manner. The Spanish type of room or those with rough plaster walls and heavy oak furniture would demand linens, brocatelles, trie, Shantung, cretonnes, moire or crewel embroideries. The latter would be most suitable also in a room panelled in oak. Checked gingham, prints, and calicos may be used in rooms of informal character as the nursery or kitchen or in rooms with peasant furniture. Always the character of the room and its furnishings must be considered. Drapes should be wide enough to completely cover the windows when drawn together. Strips of material hung at each side are meaningless. Even if they are to stay pulled back they should be full enough to draw across if desired and should look as if they were. Over-curtains are loveliest and give an air of charm and dignity to a room if they hang to the floor and they should do so in all rooms of a general nature. In sunrooms, breakfast room and small bedrooms, and on windows of unusual height they should come to the lower edge of the apron. In some of the very ornate decorative schemes and particularly in Spanish or French period rooms they should spread out 408 on the floor, but in all other rooms for sanitary reasons it is best that they clear the floor by an inch. Nearly all drapery material should be lined. The only exceptions are in cases of materials as glazed chintz and taffeta whose greatest charm is in their translucent quality. Brocades must always be lined, and linens and cretonnes nearly always as the light shining through them shows the uneven weaves and blurs the pattern. Cream sateen is the most desirable lining fabric. Glass curtains should never be hung on the same rod. Drapes may be hung in different ways, either with or without a valance or cornice board. The simplest and most suitable for the average room is to have a plain boxpleated heading, fastened to the rod by means of rings at the back. This is dignified and graceful. They may then be looped back with a cord, tie-back of the same material or an ornamental hold-back to match the rods. HERE is a question as to whether or not draping the curtains back is good decoration. Curtains very much draped create lines in conflict with those of the window. Therefore, as a general thing, those draperies which follow the opening in broken lines to the bottom of the hem or to the floor are best. However, curtains that are draped back gracefully form transitional lines that show pleasing variety. The arched opening calls for simple drapery because here the curved line of the window or door suggests and is congenial with a curved line in the hangings. In small informal homes and bedrooms ruffled curtains looped back are pretty if the tie-backs are not so short that they compress it too tightly. Ribbon make simple yet attractive tie backs, and draperies. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE or they may be of ruffles or ornamental glass. Under curtains are used where a third set of curtains is needed or desired to soften the light. If of rich material they may be drawn at night and the over-draperies left open. They are especially suitable in bedrooms, libraries, and drawing rooms. Taffetas, casement cloth, gauze, etc., are some of the fabrics used for under curtains. The valance is not used as much now as formerly. If used it is better made very simply with few scallops and erratic lines. Valances may be of the same material as the drapes, or of plain color to harmonize with printed material, or vice versa. The valance may be draped across the window; often the over curtains and the valance are in one piece, draped across the top and caught up at each upper corner and the ends hanging in graceful folds at each side. Valance boards may be made on which the material is stretched and tacked or they may be painted to match the woodwork of the room. The valance should not be wider than one-sixth the length of the window. Cornices are very lovely too, and they may be had to suit any scheme: of brass and pewter for Colonial rooms; of glass and white metal for modern rooms; or very expensive carved and painted cornices for conventional period rooms. Ornamental rods and curtain poles may also be had either very simply made or in elaborate designs. In Spanish or Italian rooms they are especially elegant. The purpose of any of these de- 'vices is to tie the over curtains together at the top. Plain or ivory white curtains with light woodwork do not need a valance, although a simple pleated or ruffled one may YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL be used with good results. Valances, etc., are not necessary either where the drapes come together at the top of the window and are draped back, but a valance board or cornice always gives a delightful finish. HE window shade is often the most difficult feature of the decorative scheme of a room and to a large extent it is being done away with entirely and draw curtains used instead. In informal rooms and cottages it is still used but care must be exercised in the colors selected that they blend with the furnishings and that the light coming through them is not too strong. The shade chosen may be two-toned, one color that will look well from the outside, the other from the inside. Sometimes two shades are used to obtain pleasing color effects. Shades should be hung on the inside of the window casing as near to the glass as possible. In kitchen, breakfast nook, bathroom and in small bedrooms shades may be made of unbleached muslin, glazed chintz or even of oilcloth, and are very gay. But they should not be used on windows fronting a street as the uniform appearance of the house from the outside will be destroyed. Very attractive results may be secured by the use of Venetian blinds. They may be used in sun parlor, library or bedroom, in fact, in any room in the house. They may be left natural or painted to match the woodwork and are very effective. With them it is not necessary nor desirable to use glass curtains. Drapes may be used. S windows differ architecturally so they demand different treatment and present different problems. A few suggestions as to the treat- 409 ment of some of these types might be of value. Perhaps the most common type of window is the double sash. Curtains. May be either hung straight from a rod at the top, or ruffled tiebacks used, or they may be hung in two tiers, one at each sash. This method is very practical as either section may be opened to admit light and the other left closed. Triple sash windows found in some homes may have three tiers. Casement windows may have the curtains either shirred on to the window next the glass with a rod at both top and bottom or at top only. Or the curtains may be fastened' on rings and drawn completely back when the windows are open. Open-in casements are most difficult of all windows to decorate successfully. If they are fitted with Parliament hinges so they do not turn back completely against the frame the problem is partly solved. The arched top window may have a fitted frame on which the glass curtain is fastened, or from which curtains are hung by means of rings. With fan-shaped transoms the curtains may either hang loose as a valance or the edges neatly tacked under the frame. To draw the edges to the center and_cover with a rosette is too conspicuous. Glass curtains on French doors are shirred at top and usually at the bottom as well. For French doors between rooms the top lights may be exposed and the curtain rod put just below the top panes. The transom on French doors should have the same kind of curtain as the door and be hung on two rods. If overdraperies are used at French doors the rod should be mounted on the door frame and as far to the side as possible so the drapes may be drawn back out of the way of the door. Glass curtains on both doors and 410 windows in the same room should be alike. It is not necessary that there be over-curtains at the door. Portieres matching the drapes in design, or of a harmonizing color add the finishing touch to open doorways. They should be hung by means of rings on an overhead track and drawn back. In archways they may be fitted to the arch and tied back. Dormer windows look best when hung with simple sash curtains, divided in the center, either ruffled or hemmed. The bay window offers a difficult problem. It may have a valance hung across the front of the alcove with long drapes on either side and glass curtains at each window. Or the valance may follow the tops of the window. For a group of windows set close together it is best to treat them as a unit with drapes on each side and glass curtains between. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE If a valance is used it should be continuous. If not a rod or cornice should be used to tie the whole into one attractive effect. Leaded glass windows do not need curtains, nor should a window with a magnificent view be covered with glass curtains. They may be left off entirely or drawn completely to the side so that the vista from the window will not be lost. Our windows today are one of the most fascinating details of home decoration, and there are many new and delightful ways of treating them. There are so many beautiful fabrics on the market for curtains and drapes, so many kinds of rods and drapery hardware, that it is a joy to choose materials for window decoration. We are limited only by our ability to choose the right thing for the right place. Next month: Furniture—Its Selection and Arrangement.