
DECEMBER 1917 (Vol. IV No. 12)

CONTENTS:

Christmas Alfred Lambourne 661
A Tribute to the Birthday of the Prophet Joseph Smith Eliza R. Snow 663
General Conference of Relief Society Amy Brown Lyman 665
Mother's Christmas Diana Parrish 678
Unusual Mothers 683
The Close of the Year 686
The Red Cross Conference in Denver Amy Brown Lyman 687
Mothers in Israel 690
Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde 692
My Christmas Musings (Poem) Hazel S. Washburn 697
December Entertainment Morag 698
There's a Way Out (Poem) Maud Baggarley 700
Current Topics James H. Anderson 701
Book Reviews 704
My Christmas Prayer 704
Editorial: A Word of Counsel - Signs of the Times 705
Guide Lessons 709

ADVERTISERS:

AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF UTAH, Logan
BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City
DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City
KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City
MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City
McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City
OREGON SHORT LINE RAILWAY, Salt Lake City
PEMBROKE STATIONERY CO., 22 E. Broadway
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 S. Main
STAR PRINTING CO., 30 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City
SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J., Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City
L. C. SMITH BROS., 338 S. Main, Salt Lake City
SOUTHERN PACIFIC RY., Second Floor, Walker Bk. Bldg., Salt Lake City
THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City
TAYLOR, S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257 E. First So. St., Salt Lake City
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City
Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City

 Ah! as the world awakens to the morn, The risen sun illumes the mountain domes, As comes the day on which the Christ was born, What prayer will rise from out now saddened homes? What from the sweetheart in the spring of life, With streaming eyes and words all sobbing wild? And from the trembling lips of some fond wife, To look this day upon her new-born child? Or from that one who hides her bitter woe, Who mourns her last-born son, now far away. The widowed mother with her locks of snow, Who all subdued doth bow her head to pray? Ah, Christ, in tenderness all ones above, Heal these three hearts with Thy eternal love! Alfred Lambourne. OUR PICTURE GALLERY. Top Row: Mrs. Nettie I). Bradford, President Salt Lake Stake R. S. ; Mrs. Leonoar T. Harrington, President Granite Stake R. S.; Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter, President Liberty Stake R. S. Center: Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, President Pioneer Stake R. S. Bottom Row: Mrs. Elsie B. Alder, President Ensign Stake R. S.: Mrs. Hilda H. Larson, President Tordan Stake R. S. Mrs. Orland Bagley, President Cottonwood Stake R. S. THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. IV. DECEMBER, 1917. No. 12 A Tribute to the Birthday of the Prophet Joseph Smith. An Unpublished poem by Eliza R. Snow Smith. In genial fellowship we hail this day, And our commemorative service pay  Entwine fresh garlands for th' auspicious morn Of that blest day when Joseph Smith was horn. Longcenturies of Time had come and gone. With prophets of the living God unknown; From heaven's high courts no voice or sound was heard  From realms of light no angel form appear'd; The people "heap'd up teachers false" and vain, "With itching ears" and thirst for worldly gain, And Christendom with all it's boasted lore And hireling priests, ignored the gifts and power Of the pure Gospel which our Savior brought, And which, in fulness, his apostles taught. To check the swelling tide of wickedness  The noble and the pure in heart to bless, And God's unchanging" purpose to fulfil. Required a prophet to reveal his will. The prophet came, and early in his youth He held the mighty keys of light and truth  Of wisdom, knowledge, and to usher in A Dispensation, and its work begin. Harmoniously in him at once combined Goodness of heart and strength of master mind. Embodying childlike, sweet simplicity With superhuman, God-like majesty. 664 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. lie. with the keys that okl Elijah held. Thick clouds of darkness from the grave dispellid, Unlocked the prison doors, as Jesus did, Which long had hound the spirits of the dead. Thro' him, the Priesthood of the Almighty God Has been restored to earth  "the iron rod." Which o'er all nations shall extend its sway In righteousness, to crown the latter day. Bold as a lion, none but God he feared. An<l yet, as humble as a child appeared When he approached his Maker, to implore Strength to endure the weight of wrongs he bore. And when he intercession made with God For aid to spread the Gospel light abroad. To bless and save mankind from guilty strife Though men. in blindness sought his precious life. We celebrate our glorious era's morn. The day the prophet Joseph Smith was born; A mighty destiny hangs on that birth. That yet will revolutionize the earth; Xot only earth, the worlds beneath 't will move. It has already stirred the world above: The heavens The Father, were God, opened and his and at once beloved Soncame down To the great prophet, then a humble youth. And lighted up the eternal lamp of Truth. "The gates ajar"  now angels come and go From heaven to earth, and spirits from below. Wherever the gospel Jesus taught has spread The nations tremble with foreboding dread. All Christendom is filled with rage and fear. While "broken reed" to broken reed draws near. To war with God. the wicked now combine. And hostile sects in mutual efforts join. Here in St. George. Jehovah's temple stands, A monument of faith in God's commands; Emblem of purity and holiness. The worthy living and the dead to bless. It speaks in strains of more than mortal speech. And more than human thought has power to reach. That God is with us. And it testifies That Joseph Smith, the great and good and wise, GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 665 Is God's true prophet, and his memory dear The hosts above, and Saints on earth, revere. He changed the current of life's ebbing tide, And forced the ship of Life to upward ride: In plainness marked the "narrow way" to God, And sealed his testimony with his blood. The poetess was 76 years old when this exquisite poem was composed and read by her, at a memorial meeting in St. George, Dec. 23, 1880. General Conference of Relief Society By Amy Brown Lyman. The semi-annual Conference of the Relief Society was held Wednesday and Thursday, October 3 and 4. 1917. A change was made in the order of Conference meeting's, the two officers' meetings being held the first day of the Conference, and the regular sessions the second day. The officers' meetings were held in the Bishop's Building on October 3, and the general sessions were held in the Assembly Hall October 4. Four special genealogical meetings were held at 4:30 p. m. on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday. A reception for all stake officers and delegates was held in the Hotel Utah, on Wednesday, October 4, when the members of the General Board acted as hostesses. All of the regular and special meetings were well attended. On Wednesday and Thursday, a cafeteria luncheon was served to the out-of-town representatives, by the General Board. At the opening officers' meeting, there were 296 representatives in attendance and in the afternoon 294. At the general session on Wednesday morning, in the Assembly Hall, there were 1,256 in attendance: in the afternoon of the same day the number reached 1,450. Roll call at the officers' meeting showed the following official representation: General Board members, 20; stakes represented, 61  1-0 by stake presidents and 23 by other officers; there were beside these 47 stake counselors, two mission presidents. 19 stake secretaries and 12 stake treasurers in attendance while 12 stakes were not represented. The missions represented were the Central States. Eastern States, Northwestern States. California, and Western States. The music of the Conference was under the direction of the General Chorister Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, with Miss Edna Corav at the organ. At the officers' meetings, there was conerre- 666 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. gational singing. In the general sessions, the Relief Society choir furnished all the numbers excepting one. A special feature was the singing by the choir of the New Freedom song, the words of which were composed by one of our Relief Society women, Mrs. Lucy A. Clark, and the music by Prof. Evan Stephens. Dr. Worley sang a tenor solo, "Comfort Ye." from the "Messiah."' As the audience was leaving the Assembly Hall, at the last session, the choir sang "The Star Spangled Banner." GENERAL OFFICERS' MEETINGS. Morning Session. President Wells was absent on the opening day of the Conference, due to a slight coil. hut was in attendance at the general meeting's on the second day. In the absence of President Wells. Counselor Clarissa Smith Williams presided at the officers' meetings. She expressed regret over the illness of the President, and in behalf of the President and the General Board extended a hearty welcome to those in attendance. The first speaker was Counselor Julina P. Smith who gave an account of the Burial Clothes Department of the Relief Society. She stated that the department has been enlarged and now occupies the suite of rooms formerly used by the First Presidency and known as the President's Office. Mrs. Smith invited the stake officers present to visit the department between the hours of four and six of each day of the general Conference. Reports were given by representatives from the Northwestern States Mission, the Pastern States Mission, and the following stakes: Marico Rear River and St. George. Mrs. Melvin J. Ballard, President of the Relief Societies in the Northwestern States, with headquarters at Portland, reported the Societies in her mission as being in a flourishing condition. There are in all 2 branches, with a membership of 838. Some of the officers are new converts to the "Mormon" Church, but are rapidly becoming acquainted with the methods of conducting the work of the Relief Society. Mrs. Ballard spoke very highly of the Relief Society Magazine, stating that it is a real inspiration to those who are away from home. She expressed an appreciation for the visits of the ciencral Hoard members to her mission. She urged the mothers to strive diligently to teach the gospel to the boys and girls so that when they are called to go upon missions they will be well prepared for the work. Miss Margaret Edward, who was until her release, president of the Eastern States Relief Societies, gave a very inter GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 667 crying" account of conditions on the Atlantic coast. Miss Edward made a plea for the arrangement of a special course of study for the missions. Conditions are very different in the mission field from what they are at home and a set of outlines particularly fitted to the missions would he greatly appreciated. One of the interesting features of Miss Edward's report was that the charity work in the Eastern States is done on the unit plan. There is one general charity fund which is used wherever there is need for it, thus the branches who have no needy assist those which are less fortunate. The subject of genealogy has been taken up with a great deal of interest and the missionary girls have made it a point to visit the genealogical libraries to do research work. Miss Edward suggested that an exchange be established between the Societies in the East and those at home, that the women in the East might do research work for Western women in exchange for temple service. Mrs. Bertha E. Wright. President of the New York City Society, stated that the cramped flat life at the big Eastern cities keeps the women from a practical knowledge of real home life with all its variations, and being so far away from the Church itself they do not enjoy the man}- advantages offered for Church work. Many difficulties beset the Relief Society president in a city so large as New York. One of the most inconvenient things is the great distance to be traveled by the members in attending meetings, and the cost of carfare, the latter usually amounting to twenty cents. Mrs. Wright herself spends one and one-half hours each way on street cars in attending a Relief Society meeting. For these reasons meetings are held only once in two weeks. Another difficulty is that members are largely transient, and still another is the adapting of the regular course of study to the classes. Mrs. Wright felt that if the members in the mission field had as good an opportunity as the members at home the results might be as satisfactory. She expressed an earnest desire to be of service in the Relief Society cause. Mrs. Emma Rollins. Secretary of the Maricopa stake Relief Society, told of the work in her district. She said that as a rule the summer work of the Society is not as intensive as that of the cooler months, but during the past summer, not only the regular work has been done but a good deal of additional work for the Red Cross. One emergency hospital was equipped by the combined women of Mesa, in addition to the doings of a great deal of hand work. Mrs. Rollins spoke of the benefits of the cotton industry recently established near Mesa, that one company alone has 10,000 acres of cotton under cultivation. Some interesting" information  was given with regard to the Papago 668 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Indian Relief Society of the Maricopa stake. The work in this branch is mainly along practical lines. Cooking and sewing are taught and as a result the women are making comfortable clothing, quilts, etc. All material tor practice work is furnished by the stake board and whenever possible the young Indian women, who have been educated at the Indian school at Phoenix, are secured for teachers. Margaret W. Manning, President of the Bear River stake Relief Society, reported that during the last season the attendance in her stake has been a little over one-half of the membership. She when spoke all those of the goldstake in the folks" over socials  and given by the Relief the widows Society and widowers were guests of the Relief Society. Conservation work has received a great deal of attention in the stake; gleaning parties have been very popular. Each woman in the stake has promised It. donate to the Relief Society one pound of beans or its equivalent, and also dried vegetables and fruits. The St. George stake was reported by the President, Emily (' Brooks. She expressed her appreciation for the educational value of the Relief Society work, stating that the work 'does more for the individual than the individual does for the work. Mrs. Brooks reported that the women in her Society have worked incessantly all summer in the interest of production and preservation of food, and as a result a large quantity of fruit and vegetables has been stored. Mrs. Brooks spoke very enthusiastically of the benefits derived from the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE low to Increase membership in the Relief Society," was the subject of an address by Miss Sarah Eddington. Miss Eddington urged a membership campaign for the coming winter. She stated that out of the 75,000 adult women in the various stakes, irrespective of those of the missions, 43.85M only are members of the Relief Society. The membership should be increased, she declared, in order that the work might be made a part of the lives of all the women in the Church. She stated that the first requirement for successful work is leadership. In order to attain this the officers must have spiritual preparation and a practical knowledge of the affairs of the Society. officers should seek first the kingdom of God and ask for wisdom and enlightenment. They should adopt the advice of Dr. Karl G. Maeser: "I will be what I would have my followers be. No one will be more exacting of me than f will be exacting of myself." No officer can give inspiration unless she is on the tiring line. When an officer fails in her duty, part of the illumination is turned off. There is plenty of material for increased membership GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 669 and plenty of interesting work outlined for study, two factors which should increase the organization fully lOO^ . With a view of increasing the membership, Miss Eddington suggested than an enlistment committee be appointed whose duty it should be to work actively to secure new members for the Society. All women residing in the ward who are not members of the Relief Society should be visited personally. They should be invited to join the Society, and it should be explained to them that their services are needed in the work. The Relief Society needs every mature woman in the Church to help carry on the work, and the women themselves need the help and inspiration that is attained through association in the Relief Society. A personal appeal is often very effective. The courses of study for the guide work should be made attractive. In the first place teachers should be selected who are specially interested in the various lines of work, and who are willing to make the necessary preparation to present the lessons intelligently. It is impossible for the best teacher, even a professional teacher, to get good results from presenting a lesson with which he is not familiar. It is, therefore, highly important that our teachers should he thoroughly prepared. An effort should be made to secure for class work the services of educated women where possible as they understand teaching methods. The charity work in the Relief Society is one of the most important features and is very attractive to the large majority of women. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams spoke on the subject of "Relief Society work and war problems in the Relief Society." She stated that although it is only six months since war was declared there is hardly a home in Utah which has not opened its doors to send some member to take part in the conflict, and conditions now face us which we once thought were impossible. The greatest factor for practical help in this world emergency is the Red Cross organized by the Government for war service. The speaker called attention to the fact that Ex-president Taft, Chairman of the Red Cross Central Committee, reports that thousands of sheets, pillow-cases, mufflers, sweaters and helmets are badly needed by the Red Cross, to say nothing of bandages and surgical dressing's. Mrs. Williams declared that the women of the Relief Society will be privileged to give and to work to their utmost capacity. Two branches of relief work taken up by the Red Cross are military Relief and civilian relief. The department of military relief is designed to furnish aid to the sick and wounded of the army and navy. The department of civilian relief is designed to carry on a system of relief among the families and dependents 670 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. of soldiers and sailors and other non-combatants during the war, and to mitigate suffering caused by national calamities, such a pestilence famine, fire, floods, etc. The Relief Society has already done much work along lines of military relief, and as the war progresses the Society will, no doubt, become active in civilian relief work. All work that is taken up by the Red Cross must be done according to the official plans. Therefore, the women who direct the civilian relief work must receive special training. In all probability the mountain division will establish an institute for study of home service work at the University, where representatives will be sent from the county Chapters to take the course. Relief Society women being long experienced in neighborhood relief work will make very good helpers in the civilian relief department. They have been trained in charitable work since 1842, and have reached a great degree of efficiency. These women should stand solidly behind this movement, as in such service even more than any other war work they may prove the value of their previous training. Mrs. Williams commended the work of the Relief Society along the lines of conservation during the Summer months, and stated that the call would still be sounded for the saving of every morsel of bread, fats and other foods. The suffering in the world, she declared is not all talk, and she closed by urging the women to donate both their time and their means to assist the nation in the great struggle for liberty. WEDNESDAY, OCT. 4. 1917. Afternoon Session. After the devotional exercises, the following announcements were made by the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman: Stake Reorganizations. Salt Lake Stake, reorganized May 5. 1 ' >1 7, with Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford as president, to fill the vacancy made by the resignation of Mrs. Hattie C. Jensen. St. Joseph Stake, reorganized June 6, 1917, with Mrs. Sarah E. Moody as president, to fill the vacancy made by the resignation of Mrs. Elizabeth W. Lay ton. Raft River Stake, reorganized September 18, 1917, with Mrs. Cclia Harper as president, to fill the vacancy made by the resignation of Mrs. Lucy Eames. Millard Stake, reorganized August 11, 1917, with Mrs. Susan Thompson as president, to fill the vacancy made by the resignation Mrs. Adeline B. Smith. Juarez Stake, reorganized May 22, 1917, with Mrs. Fanny C. Harper as president. GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 671 New Stake Organized. Tintic Stake, organized April 22, 1917, with Mrs. Elizabeth Boswell as president. Slake Conferences. Mrs. Lyman announced that the Conferences for the near by stakes which are held independently of the quarterly Conferences, would occur in November. The presidents of these stakes were asked to set their own dates for Conferences during this month and to report the same immediately to the General Office. Annual Reports. Attention was called to the fact that report forms will be sent out to the stakes on November 15. Stake presidents were urged to see that the ward report forms are in the hands of the ward secretaries as early as possible, and to impress upon the ward secretaries the importance of attending to their work promptly. Teachers' Books. The stake presidents were asked to see that the organization of teachers' districts is completed in order that they might be able to report, upon request, the number of teachers' books required for 1918. Mrs. Lyman spoke on the subject of Liberty Bonds, stating that the nation is in need of men, munitions and money, but at the present moment the greatest need is money. She enumerated the many things that have already been accomplished since war was declared, and stated that much additional work must be done. Of the two methods of raising money, national borrowing is the most satisfactory to the majority of the people, rather than by direct taxation. Mrs. Lyman emphasized the fact that it is a loan the Government is asking for, and not a gift, and that plans are arranged whereby small wage-earners may take bonds. The money invested is absolutely safe and the market value of the bonds is always good. The Government plan and the installment plan were explained and the women were invited to make an effort to assist in this undertaking by the nation to raise funds. According to the announcement in the program, this session of the Conference was devoted to a general discussion on Relief Society problems, led by Counselor Clarissa S. Williams. The officers had been asked in the morning meeting to hand in questions for discussion, and these, with impromptu questions, were profitably discussed. GENERAL MEETINGS. Morning Session. President Emmeline B. Wells presided at the general sea- 672 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. sions of the Conference. The time of these sessions was devoted to short addresses by members of the General Board. In her Opening remarks. President Wells expressed her gratitude in being permitted to be in attendance at the general i seetings of the Conference. She spoke of the wonderful events happening in the world today, not dreamed of by the majority of mankind, and of the tears of sorrow which are being shed in all countries. She urged the Relief Society women to pray and work, and to strive to live up to their highest ideals, in order to be able to endure the trials which are to come. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams commented on the wonderful work of the women of the Society during the last six month-. along the line of food production and conservation, and predicted thai there is still much work to be done. Mrs. Williams spoke of the Temple Penny Fund collected by the women of the Relief Society to assist in the completion of the Hawaiian and Canadian temples, and recently presented to the First Presidency of the Church. The fund was suggested a little over a year ago, by Mrs. Susa Young Gates, and arranged for by the Genealogical Committee under the direction of the General Board. It was raised by subscription of a penny a week by Relief Society women, and amounted to the astounding total of $12,072.33 Mis. Williams read the following letter from the First President gift and expressing heartfelt appreciation dency, for it: acknowledging Salt Lake City. Utah. Oct. 1. 1917. The Presidency and General Board of the National Woman's Relief Society. Salt Lake City. Utah. Dear Sisters: It is with more than ordinary pleasure that we acknowledge in writing the receipt of your check for $12,- 072.33, representing donations from the Relief Societies in all the stakes of Zion for the benefit of the Canadian and Hawaiian Temples, collected through what is designated as the "Penny Temple Fund," and you will find enclosed a formal receipt for the same. In accepting this good gift we desire to express our high appreciation of it and to thank the donors, one and all. Our thanks arc also tendered to those who conceived the happy idea. as well as to those who carried it out. and achieved such splendid results. Your Brethren. Joseph F. Smith, Antiion H. Lund. Charles W. Penrosk. First Presidency. GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 673 Counselor Julina L. Smith spoke of the great responsibility resting on mothers in the matter of rearing children and directing their courses in life. She deprecated the fact that young girls are allowed to go about unprotected and unchaperoned, and stated that Latter-day Saint women who are careless in this fact are failing in their duties. She referred to the sad conditions existing on account of the war, and spoke words of comfort to the mothers, whose sons have gone to the front, expressing the hope that their boys will return unharmed from the ordeal. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman attributed the marvelous amount of work accomplished by the Relief Society to the fact that the women are absolutely loyal, that they are united in their efforts, and that they forget themselves in the work for a cause. The regular work of the organization has all been well done, nothing has been neglected, and in addition, much creditable work has been done for the war. Mrs. Lyman stated that war work for the organization for the coming year, would probably include civilian relief work. She urged that the women learn to conserve their own strength in order to accomplish big things, watching out for three signals of overwork  worry, nagging-, and bossing. Mrs. Susa Young Gates endorsed the suggestions of the Presidency to pray and work and to take care of the boys and girls. She elaborated on the thought of conserving strength and the avoidance of unnecessary worry. She appealed to the mothers to write letters to their own sons and to the sons of other mothers; not to preach too much to them; not to worry or nag them; but to influence them by kindly sympathy. She felt that everybody should strive for that broad sympathy and generous love, that spiritual insight, all of which help people to appreciate and understand each other. Mrs. Emma A. Empey spoke of the Relief Society Nurse School, and the part the Relief Society nurse will necessarily play under the present conditions when the supply of nurses for home purposes is depleted by the sending of the most ancient women to the front. Dr. Romania B Penrose urged her hearers to take the greatest care of their daughters, to preserve them, for they are to be the women of tomorrow. She made a plea for girls to have the opportunity to take up studies which have for their object the preservation of life and health. Tn order to develop properly, girls need responsibility, and should be taught to share the responsibility of the mother in the home. She asked everybody to unite in prayer for the safety of the boys who have gone to war, that they may be preserved from wickedness and sin. Mrs. Emily S. Richards stated that in the present national 674 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. crisis, women must learn to be brave and to Stand all tribulation with the courage of soldiers. She made a plea for the young people who falter by the wayside and urged Relief Society women to help them Up and to be an inspiration toward advancement. Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry said the shadow of war must presuppose a glorious light: that the women present must remember that every boy going to the war would go with his mother's prayer for his safe return, and that faith and prayer would count even in the height of conflict. She quoted Charles Frohman's characterization of death as life's greatest adventure, an 1 said that it is not the end. and the boys carrying the standard of their faith to the field are serving under the banner of glory. She asked the mothers to put their faith in the Lord, emphasizing the fact that the Lord will never desert any mother who appeal to him afternoon Session. Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas was the first speaker at the afternoon session. She spoke of the value of time, saying that there will come a day when every idle moment must he accounted for. Those who improve their time and talents in righteous doing will he added upon and glorified before the great Maker. Mrs. Rebecca \. Nibley was very emphatic in urging u|>on the audience the importance of prayer  both secret prayer and family prayer. She felt that when the family unite in bowing before the Lord to ask for his assistance, the children will be Strengthened in their faith and protected from harm. Mrs. Nibley spoke briefly on the subject of charity and forgiveness; no man is great in his own strength and he has no right to judge others. She asked that we sympathize with those who arc tempted beyond endurance, and be merciful to them. If the Lord in his superior greatness and perfection can forgive the sinner, how necessary it is that man in his weakness and ignorance should forgive his fellowmen. If we would heed the advice of the Sou when he said. "Let him who is without sin among you, cast the fust stone," much of the sorrow and suffering in the world would be done away with. Miss Edna May Davis spoke on the qualification of the Relief Society visitor, emphasizing the importance of optimism and good cheer. The Relief Society worked should look after the large and important things in life: they should seek good in others and strive to uphold character. Miss Sarah M. McLelland paid a tribute to the Prophet Joseph Smith, declaring that women of the nation are indebted to him for bis stand with regard to her cruel rights with men. She cited the fact that K'O years ago, not a college of the country GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 675 would open its doors to women, and declared it to be a common belief in the Orient that woman's only hope lay in the fact that she might be reincarnated a man. She also pai 1 tribute to the wonderful influence of women in the homes of the nation, and declared that mothers sending their sons into military service should be proud of the fact that they had boys sufficiently valiant to stand up for the right. Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon spoke on the unconscious radiation of personality; the honest, sincere, kindly, helpful individual creates an atmosphere for good wherever she goes and is unconsciously an inspiration to ail with whom she comes in contact. She asked the women to cultivate trust, simplicity, loyalty, sympathy and honesty, that through these traits they might be a power for good in the world. Mrs. Janette A. Hyde declared that mothers are not alone responsible for the conduct of their children, but that on the father rests equal responsibility. Parents are by no means always to blame for their children's waywardness, for human beings reared under exactly the same conditions with equal opportunity do not all benefit equally by such privileges. Mrs. Hyde thanked the women for their hearty support of the Relief Society Magazine, and asked for continued support during the coming year. Miss Sarah Eddington stated that the hours of Gethsemane that come to human beings but help them to understand more clearly the Savior's hour in the garden. Miss Lillian Cameron spoke of the blessings derived from the unselfish work done by the Relief Society, and urged the utilization of the younger women of the Church in the organization work. Dr. Margaret C. Roberts, teacher of the Relief Society Nurse School, made a plea for generosity and a helping hand for the wayward. She stated that the most glorious principle of the gospel is forgiveness. A feature of the afternoon session was the presentation by the choir members of a handsome bouquet of chrysanthemums to President Emmeline B. Wells. Mrs. Wells acknowledged the gift with appropriate words of gratitude. In her closing remarks, Mrs. Wells stated that the Saints had passed through all sorts of tribulations and that the present war crisis was no harder to endure than were the sad hours at Nauvoo. She urged her hearers to be faithful and true to their religion which she characterized as being more precious than jewels and all of the riches in the world. 676 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. RELIEF SOCIETY GENEALOGICAL MEETINGS. The opening meeting of the four genealogical sessions held during the October conference by the Genealogical Committee of the Relief Society and the representatives from all the stakes of Zion, was carried forward as a discussion and problem meeting. The subject of stake problems was dealt with by Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter, President of the Liberty stake Relief Society, who took the negative side of the question, giving a clear, definite resume of the difficulties met by the genealogical class leaders in the wards. She was followed by Mrs. Jessie Penrose Jones, first counselor of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, who gave an excellent talk on the affirmative side of this problem. She made a number of valuable suggestions in the handling of the difficult subject of study. Mrs. Nellie T. Taylor spoke interestingly and enthusiastically of the ward problems, taking as her subject, "How the Study of Genealogy can be made Profitable and Pleasant by Ward Class Leaders." The services were conducted by Mrs. Susa Young Gates, chairman of the Genealogical Committee of the General Board, and the general discussion which followed was lively an. I profitable. Thursday afternoon the meeting was conducted by Mrs. Susa Young Gates. Miss Lillian Cameron opened with prayer. The lesson was given by Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler on "Race History in Ancient Times." The speaker followed the line of descent from Adam through Seth. Abraham and Israel. The Ten Tribes in their migrations were dwelt upon, with the breaking off of the people of Jared, of Lehi and of Zarahemla. This lesson is given in the November number of the Relief Society Magazine, as a part of the course. President Emmeline B. Wells came into the meeting and listened attentively, and with keen appreciation, to all that was said. Within six months of her 90th birthday this remarkable woman set an example to all the women of the Relief Society, of the possibilities of continued growth and acquisition of knowledge as long as life lasts in the human frame. She dismissed the meeting in clear, ringing tones, and pronounced beautiful blessings upon those present and upon the cause of genealogy and its study by all the Relief Society members. She was present at all the succeeding meetings and gave close attention to the lesson work which was given. Friday afternoon the meeting was conducted by Miss Lillian GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 677 Cameron, and it was opened by President Emmeline B. Wells with prayer. The lesson on "Race Beginnings in Europe," was given by Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman who dwelt upon the incursions of the Teutonic hordes, following them down through their various subtribes to the time of William the Conqueror and his conquest of Great Britain. At this meeting the splendid Granite Stake Relief Society choir was in attendance, under the baton of Mrs. Lucy May Green, accompanied by Mrs. Ida Home White. The choir gave two charming selections from the cantata, "The Open Door," written by Mrs. Lucy May Green and Mrs. Ida Home White, in collaboration, both music and words, under the suggestive inspiration of the Granite Stake Relief Society president, Mrs. Leonora T. Harrington. This choir also furnished music for the following day at the same time and place. Saturday afternoon the convention was conducted by Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler and the opening number was a duet from the cantata, sung by Sisters Green and White. Prayer was offered by Sister Melissa Summerhays. "Surname Beginnings" was the title of the lecture given by Mrs. Susa Young Gates, placing the origin of surnames in the Domesday Book and Battle Abbey Rolls, through the various developments into surnames, place-names, trade-names, occupation names, and nick names. A roll of the stakes was called at this meeting by the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, which showed a representative present from twenty-eight stakes. The Granite Stake choir sang another extract from the cantata, "Blessed is he that Considered the Poor," after which the congregation joined in singing the "Doxology." The benediction was offered by President Emmeline B. Wells. The attendance was excellent, the attention was good, and great, benefit was derived from these meetings. OUR PICTURE GALLERY We present to our readers, as our frontispiece, the seven presidents of the Salt Lake valley stakes: Salt Lake, Pioneer, Liberty, Ensign, Granite, Cottonwood and Jordan. These are truly mothers in Israel, who have not only given faithful and untiring service in the Relief Society, but who have been successful wives and mothers. Each is a beacon light to the women in her stake, and we congratulate the sisters of this valley in having the leadership of these noble women. Mother's Christmas. By Diana Parrish. Mother's chief hope for Christinas was that Sid could get a furlough and come home for the week-end, or even for the day itself. Wesley was not due to leave for his camp until January 5, so if Sid came it meant that the whole family would be present  the first time since the circle had begun to be broken by missions and marriages. In the middle of November mother wrote Sid to try to come. Sid replied that it was doubtful if he could  he would if he could  but "in the meantime don't count on me, and go ahead with your plans without me." Mother sat a long time over that answer, understanding with a mother's instinct the thoughts in Sid's mind and knowing that he was planning to spend his holiday in seme livelier way than by attending a "family dinner." She sat a long time over the letter and she thought about it all day and most of the night and during the days that followed. She wondered if Sid were getting weaned away from home and its influences. However, there was nothing to be done but to go ahead with the plans without Sid just as he had said. Mother took good care that the family did not know of her worry about Sid. Her pride made her take even greater pains not to show how hurt she felt that her son should refuse her invitation. And meanwhile she went on working and hoping  which is a habit that many mothers have been forced to acquire. She finished her mincemeat, made plum puddings, cranberry jelly, and generally "wound up" her winter preparations. She surveyed with pleasure the results of the season's work. Every available inch of the cellar was filled with canned and preserved fruits and vegetables. The flour bins were full, the wheat bins were overflowing, in the garden pits there were enough potatoes, carrots and parsnips to last until next spring, and the coal bins held enough for two months. The satisfactory thing about the whole situation was that many other women had been helped and urged by mother to similar accomplishments and could now look on the same results in their own homes. For Christmas the family had decided on a simple dinner "cooked to measure," as Viola called it. That is, everything was to be carefully estimated according to the number to sit down. All were opposed to the usual "groaning table" seen at Christmas, on which appeared twice too much of everything from turkey down to pie. Mother's Christmas. 679 "When millions in Europe are starving, or for that matter going hungry in our own country, we can't afford to use that wasteful method of being 'plentiful and thankful'," explained Mignon, who was now studying domestic science and felt it her duty to keep the family from slipping into antedated customs. "It's positively criminal how much we Americans waste. And it has an immoral effect, too  at least, that's what our teacher says. She says the food we throw away every day would save thousands." Bea had just begun high school economics and sociology, so she was naturally carrying the cares of the entire universe on her slim young shoulders. It was decided to divide up the labor and the expense. Isobel was to make fresh cranberry sauce, Geraldine should bring the corn from her stock put up in the summer and Fannie should make the salad. Of course, no one but Mother could be thought of in connection with the turkey, mince and pumpkin pie. On Monday evening before the great day Mrs. Tillotsen, living next door, called Mother up. "Sam's going to Camp Mereton Wednesday morning at six. Do you want to send anything to Sid?" "Could he take some mince pies for Christmas if I packed them in a small box?" asked Mother, rather breathless at the thought. "I think so. He's only got one hand bag to carry on the train. He'll call over to say goodbye tomorrow night and get them then." Mother came back from the telephone to find Mandy Marsh paying a little evening call for gossip as she often did. "There's a list of marriage licenses a mile long in the paper tonight," Mandy was saying. "These war times do stir 'em up, don't they? An' did you hear that Jess Benton broke her engagement to Captain Charming an' has married Jack Walsh, an' him only a private in Channing's company  that's fate for you I'd like to be around when he takes it out on Jack. An' her father's so blame mad he says she'll never get a penny of his money, but Jess says she don't care, she'll marry the man she wants to, no matter what. They  " "Didstream. virulent  " began Bea, but she was swept aside by Mandy's "An' guess what. Jane Brown's sent back her engagement ring to Harry Crane because he won't enlist  big diamond in a platinum ring  sendin' back a diamond platinum ring, can you imagine it? An' Vera's got married and is goin' to teach school here even though her hubby's an officer an' everybody's wonderin' why she don't go with him. Oh, an' did you hear that Elsie Van had crone to Los Angeles to visit "friends"  so she savs  (380 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. but I'm thinkin' she's gone to be near the soldiers' camp  it's only five miles away. Say, she's dippy over your Sid, ain't she? Don't blame 'er, neither. Well, I must be gettin' on or someone else will beat me to the Joneses with the news." In Mandy's hurried and babbling departure the pallor that spread over Mother's face at the mention of Elsie and Sid went unnoticed. The girls were too angry to make any comment on her insinuations and father merely stared straight ahead over his newspaper. When Mainly was out of the door no one mentioned the subject, though all were thinking of the dreaded happening  Elsie was on Sid's trail. Early next morning Mother started on the pies. After a sleepless night of maddening helplessness and inactivity it was a relief to begin work  down cellar for the mince and pumpkin, back to the kitchen, cutting up the pumpkin for steaming and then beginning the crust. Try as she would she could not get away from worrying about Sid. It seemed as if everything he had ever done passed before her mind. All his treasured little baby sayings, his cunning baby actions, his kindergarten antics, his primary school deeds, his high school escapades, his departure for his mission, his. return and his drifting off carelessly with "the boys." Mother could remember the first time Sid walked across the floor as well as if it had been yesterday. Father held him on one side of the room and she stood at the other. As she held out her arms and said "Come to mama," Sid stood up straight and with a smiling confidence came across the floor with his baby toddle. She recalled the time he was learning to sit down on a chair  his little red chair which he approached backwards and missed five out of every six times that he tried to sit on it. She remembered how he used to play about her when she was cooking, hanging to her apron strings. "They pull the apron strings when they are young," she reflected, "but when they grow up they pull the heart strings." Then there was Sid's first valentine. He painted it himself for Jennie Hall. Two rather misshapen hearts pierced by a wobbly arrow and "I love you" printed underneath in bash fullooking letters. Somehow that valentine stuck before Mother's eyes. The "girls" Sid had had came up one by one  Jennie, Ruth. Edith. Maude and Pauline  good girls but frivolous  extremely pretty but equally scatterbrained. And now Elsie Van  pretty, clever, crafty and not "good." Mother mashed the pumpkin through the strainer with the hopeless wish that she could arrange her children's destinies as definitely. "Elsie may be there at this very moment," she thought desperately. With great agitation she beat up the eggs, put in the sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg and allspice  after all, this bringing up children was like MOTHER'S CHRISTMAS. 681 making pumpkin custards  you can do no more than put in the right ingredients and make conditions favorable, then leave the rest to Providence. An extra dash of cinnamon went in, two heaping teaspoonfuls  of ginger and a little vanilla just to suit Sid's taste. "Elsie's gone down there for the holidays and that's why Sid won't come home. If she were only a decent  " The thought was more than Mother could bear. She stopped stirring and let the egg beater hang idly in the bowl. "My little son," she cried, then fell on her knees on the pantry floor. "Oh, God, be merciful. Guard him from temptation!" In her agony she breathed the mother prayer of the ages. Then she returned to the domestic task in hand, making pies, just as many another mother has done. A heavy fall of snow fell Christmas eve and made a new world for the wonderful day. All the unsightly places were covered with entrancing white as if all the old scars and troubles were to be painted over  forgotten. The grandchildren arrived early, sniffing about for dinner before they had been half an hour from the breakfast table. "Lay started on a the place table for Sid, Bea," mother directed as the girls "What for, mother? He's not coming, and we need all the space as it is." "I'm hoping he will come in spite of everything, so please do as T ask." It was not long before the rush began  rush is the only word to describe the coming of a family party. Children running in and running out again, children standing impatiently at windows with their noses flattened against the glass. Big brothers, big sisters  hurrying here, hurrying there. Isobel came with the cranberry sauce done in wonderful molds. Fannie followed her soon to arrange the salad and Geraldine scurried down the snowy path and bounded into the side door with a quart bottle of green corn under each arm. Bob was close behind her and before he even said good morning he announced that "My wife planted, tended, harvested and bottled the corn herself," at which everyone was polite enough to exhibit a gratifying amazement, although they had heard the same news only fifty times already. The married boys sauntered out into the kitchen as they loved to do whenever they came to Mother's for dinner  nosing into all the cupboards, stealing a slice of cake here, an olive or a pickle there, and a few salted nuts between times. Mother gave the final basting to the turkey, then went upstairs to change her dress. It was glorious to have the family together again. If dear old Sid  Mother occupied herself with a difficult hook in order not to feel too much emotion or show her 682 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. sad yearning on such a happy day. She rearranged her hair, tied on a soft white apron and opened her bedroom door. "Mother!" Two strong arms in soldier brown caught her up to a stalwart chest. Sid's pink cheek came close to hers. "Why, Siddie!" Mother's voice was shaky when she was released from his caress. "I  " "Yes, I know it seems funny for me to come after I said all along I wouldn't. But I had an experience, motlier, and I came through it on the right side. You know I broke it off with Elsie when I left," Sid hesitated. "She could not give up her old ways"  another pause. "Then she came up to the camp looking prettier than ever and she was so gay and lively and we were so sick of the everlasting drudgery! I fought off wanting to be with her and tried to toe the mark. But night before last, she came to my room  got there somehow  and invited me to go with her and some friends to dinner, then to the theatre and then to motor out to the Country Club on a big bust. She fairly bewitched me. I couldn't have refused at that moment if my life had depended on it. I told her I'd go and just then a knock came at the door and in bounced Sam Tillotsen with a box from you. " 'Open it up, Sid. I've carried these mince pies by hand all the way and I charge toll!' "I opened the box and lifted out those pies and looked at them, brown and shiny and spicy, and somehow I felt like I was a little kid again trailing round behind you and pulling your apron and begging to scrape the bowl. I just couldn't say anything to old Sam, for fear of showing how I felt, but he didn't need any invitations to begin when I cut the pie. After a while I came to my senses and told Elsie I'd changed my mind about going and was going home for Christmas dinner  and here!" I am Mother took her son gently in her arms. She patted him on the back, not saying a word, but feeling what only a mother can feel when she comprehends her son's temptations. "You've no idea how happy you have made me by coming," she finally whispered. "But, come, we must go down to dinner." The family gathered round the table while the girls brought in the dinner  turkey, golden brown  downy mashed potatoes and enticing corn  but best of all the whole family home to eat it. When all were seated there was a little hush. The boys in uniform and the thoughts of the suffering millions "over there" gave a solemnity to the occasion which is not often felt. "We will return thanks," said father, simply. To which Mother added a little private prayer all her own. "Thou nearest the mother's prayers, oh Lord, praise be to Thy name!" Unusual Mothers. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has produced some of the best and noblest mothers known to the ages. The constant reiteration by present-day writers that frequent childbirth entails weakness and deterioration upon both mother and children is so false in itself, and so misleading in its effects upon the rising generation, that we have decided to present in our pages some illustrated sketches of mothers who have given birth to large families of children. We would like our readers to study the faces of these women carefully and to observe the brief data which accompany the pictures, drawing their own conclusions as to the potency and value of righteous motherhood for both women and their children. We commend this series to our eugenic friends in the East, and feel sure that our sermon of facts will be more potent than any broadside of words with which we might offer arguments for unrestricted families. We are proud of these women, and very proud indeed to know that one and all of those who appear in this series are not only unusual mothers, but remarkable women, intelligent citizens of this commonwealth, and faithful Latter-day Saints. MARGARET ANN WHITLOCK. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Margaret Ann Whitlock was born December 25, 1842, in Morley Settlement, Hancock county, Illinois. In the year 1851 she came to Utah with her parents and settled in Manti, Sanpete county. Here she was married to Mr. J. H. Whitlock, in 1857. Shortly after marriage they were called by Apostle Orson Hyde to go to southern Utah to help build up the Dixie country. Prior to this time they had been living in a small log house, but had just completed a new house ready to move into at the time of their call. They soon made ready and started on the journey. Sister Whitlock labored for six years in rearing children and helping materially to build up the country. Her chief occupation outside of rearing her family and doing the housework, was carding, spinning, weaving, and making all their clothes. The family left Dixie and came to Sanpete county, and settled in a little place called Mayfield. Here Sister Whitlock added the profession of obstetrics to her other activities and acted as 684 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. 1 MARGARET ANN WIlITLoCK midwife and nurse for forty year-, waiting on about five hundred mothers. For twenty years she served as head teacher in the Relief Society. She is the mother of sixteen children and has reared five orphan children beside her own healthy family. She was near unto death several times, but by the help of the Lord, and the prayers of her brethren and sisters, she is still living and her health is fairly good. At the time of this writing she is able to do her own housework and attends her Relief Society meetings regularly. She says: "I know that the Lord has blessed me in many ways, and feel thankful for his blessings." HETTIE FROST ALLRED. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Little Frost Allred was born Nov. 13, 1845, in Hancock county, Illinois. In 1845 she and her parents went with the Saints to Iowa, where they lived until 1861, coming to Utah that year by ox team. They first settled at Draper, later moving to Spring City, Sanpete county, where she married Stephen H. Allred. Feb. 12. 1867. Sister Allred is the mother of ten sons UNUSUAL MOTHERS. 685 HETTIE FROST ALLRED. and six daughters, fourteen living to mature manhood and womanhood. She has always had good health and her children and children's children are strong, healthy men and women. Sister Allred was stake president of the Y. L. M. I. A. for years. She has two daughters who have taken out degrees. She has taken care of her farm for years, and was the pioneer in flower and kitchen gardening in Sevier county. She has also been an arduous temple worker and is devoted to that work still. JULIA A. TAYLOR DABELL. MOTHER OF SIXTEEN CHILDREN. Julia Taylor Dabell was born May 10, 1857, at Ogden, Utah. She is the daughter of Pleasant G. and Clara Lake Taylor. While a small child she moved to Harrisville with her parents, where the early part of her life was spent. She was married April 28, 1873, in Salt Lake City, to Alfred K. Dabell. She has given birth to sixteen living children, three of whom died between the ages of one to four years. She has thirteen living, grown children who are proud to call her mother. There are thirty-three grand children. The mother of this large family has not only been a mother t#t, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. to her own family, but has been a blessing in hundreds of homes for wars in caring for the sick. She has had no fear in quarantine herself, in contagious diseases, and in helping others in time of sorrow; she is now sixty years of age, but continues to work among the sick. Sister Dabell has two boys who were among the first to respond to Uncle Sam's call. So she has raised her family, helped her neighbors and friends, and is now helping her nation! THE CD >SE < >F THE YEAR. Edith McClenden. The year is drawing to its close. With all its hopes and fears; Tt brought us many sorrows. Tt brought us many tears. It brought us many pleasures; It brought us joys as well; It brought unnumbered blessings, Yes, more than we can tell. And now that it is ending Let each one try to see How very kind and thankful For all this, we can 1m?. And as each year is passing, Let's count our blessing over; We'll find they've brought us greater joys Than we ever knew before. The Red Cross Conference in Denver. Amy Brown Lyman. An executive Conference of the Mountain division of the American Red Cross was held in Denver, October 24, 25, and 26 The Mountain division includes Utah, Wyoming, Colorado and New Mexico. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams and Mrs. Amy B. Lyman were invited by the Salt Lake Chapter of the Red Cross to attend as delegates. Both Mrs. Williams and Mrs. Lyman are member s of the Civilia n Relief Committee of the Salt Lake Chapter. ^ , A public meeting was held on Wednes day evening, October 24. On Thursday morning a general session was held for delegates. Thursday afternoon and Friday were devoted to section meetings. At the Wednesday evening meeting, with five thousand people in attendance, the speakers were: Mr. Henry B. Davison, chairman of the Red Cross War Council of America; Mr. Harvey D. Gibson, general manager of the Red Cross, and the Rev. Mr. Davis, member of the Red Cross Commission, recently returned from the front in France. These men made a patriotic call for the assistance of the whole American people in c carrying on the great work of the Red Cross, emphasizing the point that the America n Red Cross will help to shorten the war no less than will American arms. Miss Gertrude Vaile, chairman of the Bureau of the Civilian Relief, held two important sessions. She outlined in detail the work to be taken up throughout the division along the lines of home service for the families of soldiers and sailors. It was explained that nearly three quarters of a million of men are now enlisted in the various branches of the army and navy and that the number is increasing daily. In spite of the fact that great care is being taken to select for national service, men without dependents, and in spite of the fact that the Government is planning to grant separation allowances and to secure the assignment of pay, there will be many homes where additional assistance will be necessary, and it is the plan of the Red Cross to give this assistance through the department of Civilian Relief, in the form of home service. The work of civilian relief is not to be considered as charity, but as legitimate aid to those families who have given their husbands and sons to insure the safety, security and honor of the country, and in return are entitled to special consideration by the Government through the Red Cross. During war time, every family is beset with difficulties of various sorts, due to the high cost of living, industrial changes, 688 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. etc., and it is only natural that these difficulties are greatly increased where the head of the family has given his full service to the nation. The national Government has assumed the responsibility of making financial provision for the families of enlisted men by arranging for separation allowances to be given to the families of the men who assign part of their pay to their dependents. During the interim in which arrangements are being made by the Red Cross and the Government for the permanent care of the families of enlisted men, the Red Cross will, through the Civilian Relief department, give reasonable temporary assistance to those who are in need, and will help families to maintain their standards of health, education and industry by tiding over temporary difficulties. In the administration of home service work Miss Yaile recommended that all applicants for Red Cross home service or relief be referred to the Red Cross Civilian Committee; that this committee make preliminary inquiry, register the cases and then turn them over to the relief organizations of the church with which the applicants are affiliated, for complete investigation. Reports with such records as the Red Cross ordinarily requires for its home service work will then be made by the church societies to the Civilian Relief Committee, and the committee itself with these recommendations in mind, will decide upon the assistance to be given and the plan to be made for the family. Latter-day Saint families of soldiers and sailors who apply to the Red Cross for assistance will thus be turned over to the Relief Society of the "Mormon" Church for investigation; Catholic families will be assigned to Catholic visitors, and Jewish families to Jewish visitors. In all instances wherever possible a family will be assigned visitors of its own religious faith, the policy of relief and treatment of each family, however, to be decided upon by the Civilian Relief Committee. Those applicants not affiliated with any religious sect will be investigated and looked after by the Civilian Relief Committee itself. By assigned pay of the soldier is meant the pay the soldier makes to his family out of his Government allowance. The separation allowance by the Government is a stipulated amount that the Government will pay to the family of the enlisted man. The separate allowance to be made by the Government is very generous and this in addition to the assigned pay of the enlisted man will be ample provision for his family, if it is wisely handled. The enlisted man is compelled to allot his family not more than half of his pay (the pay of an army private in service abroad is $33.00). not less than $15.00. The man may choose to assign more than this, on the one hand, and on the other hand the wife may waive this compulsory allotment by producing evidence of THE RED CROSS CONFERENCE IN DENVER. 689 her desire and ability to support herself and children. The monthly allowance to be paid by the Government to the immediate family of the enlisted man is: Wife without children $15.00 Wife and one child 25.00 Wife and two children 32.50 For each additional child 5.00 No wife, but one child 5.00 No wife, but two children 12.50 No wife, but three children 20.00 No wife, but four children 30.00 For each additional child 5.00 The schedule of monthly allowances to be paid by the Government to other persons specified by the enlisted man, provided these persons are wholly or partly dependent upon him, and provided he assigns to them a portion of his own pay, is as follows: One parent $10.00 Two parents 20.00 Each grandchild, brother or sister 5.00 The maximum allowance to the dependents of any one enlisted man is $50.00 a month. In order to administer the work in home service efficiently and in order to keep the required records properly, according to the plans outlined by the Civilian Relief Bureau and accepted by the Government, the Red Cross will arrange for a series of institutes, short resident courses and extension courses to be given during the winter. The first institute will be held at division headquarters at Denver, under the immediate supervision of Miss Vaile. Later, short courses, extension classes, and lectures will be given in the various cities of the division. In the meantime, the work will be done as efficiently as possible by the Civilian Relief Committees of the chapters, assisted by the various relief organizations, according to the plans already outlined. The military relief work of the Red Cross which is already very well established will continue in the good work of making surgical supplies and hospital garments for the wounded, and knitted comforts and other necessary articles for the men in action. With all these worthy and necessary plans and preparations in view, it will not be necessary to urge the women of the Relief Society to give their assistance in this good cause and to prepare themselves in every instance to do the work which they will be called upon to do. A Utah Girl in France. Every girl will thrill with fear, yet admiration at the courageous enterprise of the charming and brilliant daughter of our General Board member, Mrs. A. \Y. McCune. Miss Betty McCune, fired with patriotic fervor determined at the outbreak of the war to dedicate her services to France as an ambulance driver. Accordingly she offered herself and her fine new automobile to the New York authorities last spring and her name was placed upon the applicants' role for service. A few other leading young, patriotic women of New York have also made this offer, and one or two have gone to France already. She came home during the summer months and put herself under a severe course of training in automobile driving. Miss McCune set sail for France Monday, November 5. sailing on the Rochambeau. A number of interesting details surround this young lady's preparations: First, the snapshot picture of her which accompanies this article was taken by the New York authorities, and one is pasted on each of her pieces of baggage. She must land in France dressed exactly as she is in this picture. This is her means of identification  added to her passport and letters of credit and other forms of written identification. France, and especially Paris, is without coal except for cooking purposes, so that these daring young American maidens must he clothed so warmly that the chill blasts of winter which sweep through the streets and penetrate the houses of Paris, shall be unable to enter the specially prepared clothing of the girls. A very soft leather suit of trousers and coat with high boots to the knees is the outer garb. Under this the waist with long sleeves and high neck covers heavy woolen underwear. The driving coat A UTAH GIRL IN FRANCE. (591 is rubber waterproof on the outside with leather on the inside. Beside this a soft woolen inner coat is worn for driving. The long woolen stockings worn by Miss Betty were knitted by the loving fingers of her own mother. She took three pairs of these, with a woolen knit helmet fashioned by the same tender hands, to wear under her other caps. Perhaps the most unique part of her furnishings is a life preserver, made of heavy waterproof rubber. This suit fits from neck to ankle and is in one piece. It is padded inside with specially prepared cork material so it will not sink. Over this are gloves and boots, all equally well fortified. The girl gets inside of the suit, snaps it at the neck, pulls on a headpiece over that and looking like a huge brownie she finds herself within a mammoth thermos bottle, which preserves the heat of the body for twenty-four hours no matter how freezing cold the water is. Sinking is impossible, so it is said, with one of these wonderful new devices for protection on the seas. Miss Betty and her mother attended the services in Brooklyn the Sunday before she left and received the loving congratulations and blessings of President Walter P. Monson and his associates. Can our mothers at home realize the anxious love and prayers of this mother who watched her daughter sail out of New York harbor, but who may not know when the boat finally sails out into the dangerous deep. The captain himself will not know when they can sail beyond until he feels himself free from submarines. No wireless messages are permitted, and he may cruise around for weeks before he finds it safe to make his crossing. Many mothers feel the aching loss of sons who have gone into the conflict, but how must a mother feel whose tender-limbed and delicately reared daughter undertakes this dangerous work? Our blessings and faith go with this brave and lovely Utah girl, and we shall watch for her return with faith and perfect confidence. MRS. LYMAN IN DENVER. It has been decided by the General Board, and approved by the First Presidency that Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman attend the Home Service Institute, given under the direction of the Bureau of the Civilian Relief of the Mountain States Division of the Red Cross, in Denver, beginning November 5th and ending December 15th. Mrs. Lyman will be accompanied by three young Relief Society women from Logan, Provo and Ogden, who will also lake the course. Home Science Department. Janctte A. Hyde. DEMONSTRATIONS TO BE USED WITH LESSON ON POOD VALUES. These suggestions are made as supplementary to the I Ionic Science lesson in our Guide. A. A table set with samples of food in amounts to agree with cuts in lesson. Each sample to be accompanied with a card denoting food values. See lesson table. B. Demonstrations of meals for children. C. Members of class to bring one article containing a hundred calorie portion. D. A sample meal of poor combinations, either too much starch or too much protein. A meal showing the correct combinations. Tomato Soup. 1 qt. milk 625 1 Dt. tomatoes 075 4 tbsp. butter 02 4 tbsp. flour 008 2 tsp. sugar 004.1695 Custard. 3 c. milk 0468 3 eggs 075 3 tbsp. sugar 0187 Flavoring 005.1445 Salmon Loaf. 1 can salmon 15 1 c. bread crumbs (2 slices) 01 3 eggs 075 2 tbsp. drippings 01 Seasonings (salt, pepper, parsley) 002.247 White Sauce. 2 c. milk 0312 3 tbsp. flour 006 3 tbsp. drippings. . .015 0522 HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 693 (3 p.m.) Carrots, mashed, l/2 15 1 c. milk 160 1 slice bread 100 275 525 Three Children. Cream of \y2 c. tomato soup 320 Croutons 150 Salmon loaf 400 White sauce 320 Potato, \y2 150 2-3 c. canned strawberries or other fruit 250 Sugar, iy2 tb 100 1.590 Two Adults. Cream of tomato soup, 2 c 400 Croutons, 2 slices '. 300 Salmon loaf 580 White sauce 400 Potato (2) 200 2-3 c. canned strawberries 250 2 pieces cake 216 2,246 MEAT AND MEAT SUBSTITUTE ILLUSTRATION. 1, Creamed codfish; 2. baked beans; 3, bacon; 4, macaroni and cheese: 5, roast beef; 6, cheese; 7, cottage cheese; 8, hamburger; 9,halibut: 10. small eggs; 11. nut roast. 694 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. SUPPER. Baby. (6 p. m.) 1 c. milk 80 Custard, y2 c 150 1 slice bread 100 330 BREAKFAST. Baby. Calories. 'Milk 1 slicej.stoast c 100 100 10 a. m.  1 orange or baked apple 100 300 Three Children. Oranges (2) or apples 200 Germade, 1 /> c 300 Whole milk, 2 c 320 Toast, 4*/2 slices 450 Butter, 2 tb 200 1.470 Bulky Food Picture: 1. orange; 2, cucumbers; 3. turnips; -r. peas; 5, carrots; 6, onions; 7. strawberries; 8, spinach^ 9, banana; 10, lettuce; 11, shredded cabbage. Two Adults. Oranges (2) or apples 200 Germade. 1 ' > c 300 Thin cream. -'4 c 300 Toast. 4 slices 400 Sugar, 1>  tb 100 Butter. 2 tb 200 1,500 HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 695 DINNER. Baby. (11 a. m.) 'y8 c. milkbread l/2 slice 100 50 Germade, j/2 c 100 250 Three Children. Graham bread, 6 slices 300 3 c. milk 480 Peanut butter, 3 tb 200 Custard 513 Tivo Adults. 1,493 Graham bread, 5 slices 500 Butter, 1 tb 100 Peanut butter, 1 Vi tb 100 5 c. milk ' 480 Custard, 1 c 150 1,330 ENTIRE AMOUNTS OF FOOD USED IN RECIPES FOR DAY, Cost. Milk 10# c 16 Bread, 26*/ slices 132 Oranges, 5 166 Germade. 3l/2 c 02.i Butter. 5 tb 075 Peanut butter. 4^ tb 025 Strawberries, 2 boxes 17 Sugar 5 tb 14 Thin cream, 1 T4 c 09 Carrot, (J4) 015 Soup, 3y2c 098 Salmon loaf 247 White sauce 05 Potatoes. 3*/2 45 Custard 144 1.456 10,800 calories cost $1,456 100 calories cost 0135 696 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Basis of 5 quarts of milk at 6}4c a quart, if meat had been used cost would have been increased 15 to 30c per day. When milk is 10c a quart it is still good economy to use it when meat is 25 to 35c a pound. COST OF LIVING VERSUS HOUSEHOLD KNOWLEDGE. Statistics show us that 75% of the male population of the Tinted States only earn six hundred dollars per year; and that 45% of this amount is spent for food, leaving 5S% for clothing, up-keep, etc. Are we getting value received from this 45%? Is the cost of food out of proportion to the rest of the income spent for other things? In the first place, it is impossible for human workers to give good service without the proper kind of food, and the workingman's efficiency depends upon the food which he consumes. It has been estimated that the average family of five cannot exist and maintain proper health conditions under $900 per year, that is. to pav for food, clothing, rent and up-keep, according to the amount each needs. It would seem, therefore, that the average American family, which has an income of $600 per year, exists under improper conditions, not conducive to health and happiness. The best results may not obtain under such straightened circumstances, vet, the facts are that many of our brightest and best citizens come out of these average homes. Now, in order that the housekeeper may obtain the most for her money, it is extremely necessary that careful buying and proper management of the home be understood by the family, and especially by the mother. Hence, we advocate a well-balanced menu, the study of food values, good food substitutes for the usual expensive materials, proper methods of buying, cooking and serving, in order that the efficiency of the family may be maintained. It is impossible to give good service unless the body is well u 1. It is a sad condition of affairs to feel that over one-half of the population of the United States is under-fed. The price of food may be one cause, low wages may be another, but the very most important factor is the lack of training and of cookery knowledge, for we find very few cooks who understand how to prepare a well-balanced meal. It should be the duty of each housewife to know the real value of energy-producing foods, the right amount to serve, and the serving portion; the proper substitutes for meat, milk, eggs, etc. Be not satisfied by thinking you can make up the deficiency of improperly prepared food by exquisite housekeeping, for by food, alone, will the body be supplied with the necessary fuel. We mar often plan an attractive menu and then find it too HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 697 expensive, which will necessitate substitutes. If we have calls for oranges, let us use bananas; top milk for cream; oleomargarine for part butter; bean loaf with tomato sauce for creamed salmon and peas; stewed apples instead of pears; meat stew instead of rump or rib roast. We may omit expensive salads and increase the bread and potatoes, flaked wheat, rice, and other cheaper foods, thus preventing any deficiency in food fuel. We can still prepare palatable and digestible meals with the right food values, and save perhaps 25% on the total cost for the day. My Christmas Musings. 'And Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which were spoken of him (Luke 2:33). Hazel S. Washburn. I wonder, .did the mother of the Christ-child know The value of the gift she helped bestow Upon this world of bitter unbelief: I wonder, if her vision ever guessed The greatness of the future still to be; If sometimes grim foreboding, unconfessed, Brought whispers to her soul of Calvary With all its wondrous magnitude  and awful grief. Tho' surely Mary knew her son divine I doubt she sensed his mission at the time  Or realized his glorious destiny. I think an all wise "mercy" kindly hid The future from that loving mother's ken. For could she  knowing of Gethsemane, And being human  joy in human pain Tho' with the glorious recompense of all eternity? T hold my own wee offspring in my arms And wonder, if for him there waits a crown of thorns, And if for him, also, the cup is filled! And though my soul in anguished protest cries. Yet still, I would not have it otherwise Than as the Father willed. December Entertainment By Mo rag. Winter has many pleasures. Sometimes we think they outnumber those of any of the other seasons of the year. Thanksgiving clay ushers in the time of gaiety and pleasure and it is hardly over before we begin to plan for the holidays of the year  Christmas and New Year. There are two days on which we should gather together in our family circles and in public assemblies to celebrate with songs of joy and gratitude. On Christmas day we join with all the civilized world to commemorate the birth of the Savior of the world  God's greatest gift to man. Because of this gift, and because to his lowly cradle in the manger, the wise men came bringing their gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh, the custom has grown amongst us, to remember our friends and loved ones with Christmas gifts and greetings, for only by giving gifts can the true meaning of the great gift of peace and good will be impressed. The 23rd of December should be celebrated by the Latter-day Saints in memory of another precious gift from our Father in heaven: the Prophet of the nineteenth century. Joseph Smith. The Prophet's birthday falls on the Sunday before Christmas this year and doubtless will be honored throughout the Church with special services and programs. For your Home Evening this month, have a Joseph Smith program, sing the appropriate hymns (there are many of them), et the smaller children tell the story of the birth of Joseph. The first vision. The older members may speak of him as a prophet, as a teacher, and of the bringing forth of the Book of Mormon, and of the martyrdom. All may bear testimony and sing of his wonderful life and achievements. LIFE OF CHRIST IN SON. (For Christmas Service.) Hymn, "Far, Far Away, on Judea's Plains." P>ass solo. "Nazareth." Hynm. "When Christ was Born in Bethlehem." Hymn. "Behold the Lamb of God." Song. ''Galilee." Song, "Master, the Tempest is Raging." Solo. "There were Ninetv and Nine." DECEMBER ENTERTAINMENT. 699 Hymn, "I Think When I Read that Sweet Story of Old." Solo, "The Lord is My Light." Hymn, hymns.) " 'Tis Midnight and on Olive's Brow." (Gospel Solo, "The Holy City," or "Calvary." Hymn, "He Died, the Great Redeemer Died." Hymn, "Easter Morning." Hymn, "I Know that My Redeemer Lives." CHRISTMAS CARD PARTY. This may be held a few days before Christmas or on Christmas Eve. Send invitations written on Christmas postals. Arrange a corner of the room as a post office, presided over by some one costumed as Santa Claus. After a good lively game or two, or some music, pass around plain cards and pencils and see who can write the prettiest verse or sentiment for a Christmas card. These may be addressed and given over to the postman for delivery. Award a Christmas calendar as a prize. All who attend the party can be notified in advance that pencils or cards will be delivered to whomsoever they are addressed. The hostess will, of course, prepare some of her own. After singing a Christmas carol or two pass around paper and write a round robin letter to the absent ones  a missionary, or it may be a boy in the training camp, or the trenches. Let everyone write something  even the babies can make their mark. If a flashlight picture can be taken, enclose one and be sure and mail the letter at once. The letters, gifts and postals may now be delivered to the guests by Santa, or if a change is preferred, let one of the girls be costumed as the spirit of Christmas, all in red and green with holly berry wreath and wand. Serve raspberry or red currant punch, dainty sandwiches, individual mince pies, red and green apples, nuts and Christmas candies. GIFT SUGGESTIONS. For the absent ones a dainty booklet in a serviceable cover, containing snapshots of the home places, the various members of the family and even of the family pets. One sister made a snapshot of the homes of her various brothers and sisters, mounted them on cards, tied these together with Christmas ribbon, added a greeting and Christmas sticker on the outside card, and lo, a dozen or more hearts were made glad by her thoughtful effort. The cost was trifling, but the originality of the gift and the personal touch made the small remembrance valuable. Christmas "00 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. photos are always appreciated, also subscriptions to good magazines. Why not make this a magazine Christmas. Father and brother will surely like to receive the Improvement Era as their favorite monthly. Mother and grandma both need their Relief Society Magazine subscriptions renewed, while big sister and little one, too, must have their Journal and Children's Friend, and, o\ course, the whole family read the Juvenile. Those who solve their Christmas problem in this way will live in the hearts of their loved ones, not through Christinas alone, but throughout the year. Now a blessed and happy Christmas to one and all. CHRISTMAS MONEY. A novel way to send a money gift at Christinas is to choose a Christmas postal or card with a funny man's figure on it. Make a slit under his arm and insert a folded greenback. Underneath or on the reverse side write the following jingle: "I introduce my friend Bill Green As fine a chap as you've e'er seen. If you need an apron, or jabot new, Or warmer gloves when hands are blue, Just tell your need to jolly Bill; I les full of cheer and right goodwill, Whate'er you need without a doubt He'll find a way to help you out." Or: Paste a dime in four corners of a postcard, cover each with Christmas stickers. Enclose in envelope with following message: 
 here are some dimes, to use sometimes When you'd like a treat, of candy sweet, Or von want to go to a picture show. L. M. G. THERE'S A WAV OCT. Maud Haggarley. Xo matter what trials beset thee, No matter what terrors betide, No matter if fortune forsake thee, Or false be the friend at thy side,  Be steadfast and true to thy purpose  Thy ideal high never doubt  The lowering clouds must soon vanish Thy Father shall point the way out. Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. American troops in France began actual fighting with the Germans on October 25. Russia is facing German invasion threatening Petrograd, and anarchy threatening the whole country. Killed, 4,000; injured, 10,000, was the result of a powder magazine explosion at Steifel, Austria, in October. Congress closed in October with proportionately the largest list of appropriations known in the history of the United States. Baseball interest in the United States for 1917 culminated in October, when the Chicago club defeated the New York club in the world series. Holland bids fair to be German prey, now that the British advances in Belgium threaten the U-submarine bases at Ostend and Zeebrugge. Sugar shortage in the United States means a shortage all over the world, where the supply for 1918 is not more than half that available in 1917. Brazil has declared war against Germany. This leaves only three Stations with the American nations that have not broken releaser. At Marysvale, Utah, the largest potash plant in the world was destroyed by fire in October, thus materially interfering with the production of potash for fertilizer. Ireland is giving more trouble to Great Britain in this war, and another scheme for supplying the Irish rebels with arms from Germany has been uncovered. Utah now is highly regarded in the Eastern States, is the record from those who know the facts. Quite a transition from conditions of twenty years ago. "Mormon" Church services have been arranged for at 702 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Camp in the Lewis, 181st brigade Washington, of the where there army American are over 2,000 there. gathered "Mormons" Germany in by no means beaten as yet in the war, as shown by her offensive campaigns in Russia and toward Italy, many American newspaper stories to the contrary notwithstanding. Dr. George Michaelis, the recently appointed German chancellor, has had to resign. The Socialists in the German reichstag were unanimous in demanding that he step down and out. Several air raids were made over England in October by German airplanes and Zeppelins, killing nearly 100 people. Six of the Zeppelins were shot down in France, on their return trip. In northern Syria the rate of deaths from starvation during October is said to have exceeded 1,000 per day; yet that part of Syria is one of the most productive food sections of Asiatic Turkey. British and French troops on the western battle line in Europe inflicted several severe defeats on the Germans during October, thus showing the superiority of the former in that war section. Submarine warfare in October continued to exact a heavy toll in sunken ships, but the losses in German submarines increased more rapidly than did the number of merchant vessels destroyed. Young girls have been forbidden to be present at Fort Douglas, Salt Lake City, after 7 p. m. on any day. The military order was timely, and welcome to those interested in the welfare of the young people. I. W. W. ACTIVITIES in the United States diminished greatly during October, owing to the government's stern attitude toward the leaders of the organization, many of whom were indicted for violations of law. The "Mormon" Church is the first general church organization to subscribe for government bonds in aid of the United States government. The amount voted by the Church Conference in October was $250,000. CURRENT TOPICS. 703 The second loan asked for by the government in 1917 reached nearly the $5,000,000,000 aimed at, there being over 8,000,000 subscribers, the intermountain States doing their full share. The next loan will be called for about February, 1918. Drafted men to the number of 198 were sent back to Utah from the army training camps, because some of the district boards, notably in Salt Lake City, had not been sufficiently careful, thereby putting the government to considerable unnecessary expense. Lord North Cliffe, of the British war mission in the United States, says the end of the war is at least three years off, while General Leonard Wood of the United States general staff says ten years. At any rate, there is no prospect of an early peace. The fighting armies of the world now at war reached the enormous total of 38,000,000 men in October, the Teutonic allies having 10,600,000, and the Entente allies 27,500,000. Practically all of the former and half of the latter are on the fighting line. Woman suffrage picketing at the White House, Washington, seems to have had some influence in its persistency. President Wilson has announced himself as favoring the submission of the equal suffrage question to the voters in all the states where there is only male suffrage. Austrian troops were driven back by the Italians early in October, but in the latter part of that month the Austrians, reinforced by several hundred thousand Germans, took the offensive and inflicted on the Italians the greatest defeat that the war in Europe has registered to date. Candy intoxication, or the abnormal appetite for candy which has developed in America, especially among the young people, during the past five years, is likely to receive some setback in the fact that the amount of sugar available for coofections in 1918 will be less than half that for 1917, thus working a sort of partial prohibition. Palestine news for October is not voluminous, but is significant. The British railway being built from Egypt, and to run entirely through Palestine into northern Syria, has been constructed across the desert to Hebron. Thus the Turk no more will menace the British Great line Britain's possessions on soon on the Mediterranean the will Egyptian be the front, for Palestine front, if, indeed, that end has not been attained already. ROOK REVIEWS. "Children's Stories and How to Tell Them." A charming and very useful book comes to our table from The Home Correspondence School Press, for the benefit of mothers, teachers and all who amuse or instruct children. It is simple, direct, full of splendid illustrative material, and we recommend it highly to our own members, to Sunday School and Primary workers, and to all parents. Price, $1.50. ' "Old Testament Studies." Dr. J. M. Tanner issues an excellent and helpful volume for all who would be more familiar with the Bible and its contents. Clear, without pedantry, suggestive of scholarship, yet direct in treatment, the book will prove a welcome addition to home and to all our auxiliary organizations. For sale at Deseret Sunday School Union Hook Store "Pioneering in the West." Among the few detailed narratives of the early pioneering days of Winter Quarters and Utah. we have a new addition, the story of Howard Egan, as revealed in his diaries, edited and published by his sons. II. R. Egan and W. M. Egan. The book is well illustrated, full of interest, life, motion, and above all. informed on every page with the spirit of reverent faith and trust which animated the pioneers of this state. For sale at Skel ton's Pub. House, Salt Lake City. MY CHRISTMAS PRAYER I la Fisher. 0 Christmas spirit, breathe upon us all Abundantly; for while the carols ring A rest and quiet stills our surging souls. And we remember Christ, the Master King. How void of earth's vain glory was His birth! II is life, how full of suffering and care! His death  dear Lord, the thought of Calvary Makes our afflictions easier to bear. O Christmas spirit, put within our hearts The power to heed Christ's message in this day Of tribulations, great iniquities, While love and charity tend toward decay. O Christmas spirit, give us fortitude! When shall good will and peace be earth's again? When shall the hush of harmony begin To penetrate the selfish hearts of men? EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto  Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counse or Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown layman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Sarah McLelland Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Tulia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Miss Edna May Davis Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Assistant Manager Manager WW' AmyJanette Brown A Lyman Hyde Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. IV. DECEMBER, 1917. No. 12 A WORD OF COUNSEL. We wish the sisters everywhere to accept our loving congratulations on the excellent work they have accomplished this past difficult and strenuous year. The state itself rings with praises for the Relief Society organization, its divinely appointed machinery, and the unity, loyalty and enthusiasm of its members. A new duty confronts us. We are now thrust irrevocably into this world conflict. Our husbands, sons and grandsons have left MS at the call of our country, and our hearts are burning with anxious fervor to do our part in sustaining them and their associates. The Red Cross work offers an outlet for the restless patriotism that demands expression in work. Let us again caution you all: be not over-anxious. Calmness and prudence must be exercised lest our means and our strength be exhausted long before the conflict is over. We counsel patience and moderation to one and all. Where the stake priesthood deem it wise to organize a Red Cross county chapter, join with them by all means. With your own home cares, your Relief Society duties, the maintenance of our own who are in need, wisdom must guide you in the assumption of new cares and labors. Do not neglect your husband nor children, no matter how urgent may seem the public call. The hope and future welfare of this Church and this Nation 706 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. is bound up in our children. Exert supreme care for them, morally, physically, and spiritually. When able to leave them in good hands, then go on with your public duties. In this great need of our country for help at this supreme hour, our blessings go with every woman who can devote time or means to the calls made by our Government. Yet be wise, sisters, be moderate, and in the exercise of this caution you will be the more loyal and truly helpful citizens of our beloved country. Emmeline B. Wells. President. Clarissa S. Williams, First Counselor. Julina L. Smith, Second Counselor. SIGNS OF THE TIMES. That was a thrilling title for the Latter-day This Christmas Saint in the days of old when men were bold Time. and spoke their minds freely. In later years we have changed our. ways somewhat; yet we are still Latter-day Saints, now and forevermore. We have learned perhaps that honey catches more flies than vinegar, and that men cannot be forced nor hammered into the kingdom of heaven. It is now a time of calling, persuading and inviting men into the Church. But it is also strictly a time when it behooves all Saints to examine themselves, their motives and conduct, lest sin be condoned in the effort to win over the sinner, and lest we forget the God of justice in our constant appeals to the God of mercy. These are peculiar times, and we are a The Signs peculiar people. For we believe in the God of These who sent his Son to redeem the world  Peculiar Times, through death. Death is the great cosmic answer to the load of sin and sorrow which encircles this fretted globe. We who know the Father of all spirits as He is, not as He is said to be by men, realize that justice and mercy are both satisfied in the passing on of men who are rebellious, corrupt and wicked. Better far death to shorten willful sinning, and to give the soul another chance behind the veil, than continued life here which heaps up corruption and wickedness. The nations have had the testimony of our Latter day Saint elders  now have come the testimony of "wars and rumors of wars"  "of signs in the stars"  "and upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexities," "men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth." The powers of heaven shall be shaken, according to the Savior's own words recorded by Luke 21. These be the times. EDITORIAL. 707 Strange to say, there will be a visible visit A New Star this winter from the most remarkable comet of Promise. known to science. No one connects this star with the star of Bethlehem, except a very few scientific astronomers who thus explain the Savior's star of announcement. Strange, is it not, that this particular star or comet, which has been seen by men but once or twice, should now come swinging into sight? Peculiar, too, it is, that the Jews are pour The Jews Are ing back into Judea, that money has been Surely Return spent like water to settle Jews in Palestine ing to Judea. and to redeem that barren waste. Strange, also, that the Turkish rule over that promised land  which has been held by them cruelly, ruthlessly, for countless years  is tottering for its fall  British troops are within thirty miles of Jerusalem! The Promised Around us are the Lamanites. Manifestations among them are not infrequent, and Awakening. such manifestations are most significant and peculiar. We shall tell you in our next year's Magazine some of these Lamanite convictions and testimonies. There was a star, a travail and a birth, in The Second Bethlehem of Judea, nearly two thousand Coming Near years ago. The Holy One came, then born at Hand. into a manger. He is about to come now in the majesty of his kingship, and the nations must bow to his rule of justice and mercy. His preparatory testimonies and signs fill the heavens and the earth. "When these things begin to come to pass, then look up and lift up your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh." "So likewise ye. when ye see these things come to pass, know ye that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand. Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not pass away till all be fulfilled. "Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not pass away. And take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with surfeiting, and drunkenness, and cares of this life, and so that day come upon you unawares. For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the face of the whole earth. Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man." Hail, Star of Bethlehem and star of present promise  let the signs shall not be of moved. the times multiply. If we stand in "holy places," we 708 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. BOUQUET FOR THE RELIEF SOCIETY AND "MAGIt is a great pleasure to AZINE." receive encouragement from one of the ripest scholars and most catholic readers this Church has produced. W. W. Riter is the Chancellor of the University of Utah, and is a speaker of rare eloquence and magnetic gift. We are happy to know our Magazine finds favor with him: October 25, 1917. Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Editor Relief Society Magazine, City. Dear Sister Gates: I was intensely interested in reading in your Magazine for October, 1917, of the struggles and labors of Mrs. Nellie Allen. It carried me back to Pioneer days when we had many such women capable of making heroic struggles such as Mrs. Allen seems to be making. I have frequently said that the history of the earl}- settlement of this country never has been written nor never will be, especially the part performed by the heroic sisters. Mrs. Allen's experience certainly should awaken admiration in the hearts of the young people of the Church. Women like she is, are the mothers of men that make our country v bat it is. Women of her type are the mothers of the men who made this country (Utah) what it is. I hope that she will receive the encouragement that is due to her unceasing and brave efforts to stem the world. I wish I could see her, shake hands with her, and cheer her along the way. I really am enthused over this little history you give of so brave a woman. Hoping that God will crown your labors in bringing the attention of our people to such deeds, that they may be an inspiration to them is my sincere hope. Very respectfully, W. W. Riter. EXTRACT FROM THE REPORT OF MRS. W. MONT FERRY ON THE WOMAN'S UTAH LIBERTY LOAN COMMITTEE. The perfection of the organization effected, was due in no small measure to the aggressive patriotism of the Women's Relief Society of the Latter-day Saints. This organization through their beads co-operated to the fullest extent and became a most important part of. the Liberty Loan State Organization. Too much credit cannot be given these energetic, intelligent, and patriotic women. Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in January. THE BOOK OF MORMON. Historians and Custodians of the Book of Mormon. The story told in the Book of Mormon is the story of a Semite colony who came from the Tower of Babel and settled in North America, but who perished after centuries of expansion and prosperity, because of their sin and corruption. Also it is the story of a colony of Hebrews who left Jerusalem in the time of Zedekiah, crossed the sea in ships of their own building and landed in South America, finally peopling both continents again. The disobedient portion of this people at last conquered, and remained a dark skinned race to be discovered by Columbus. These people kept records engraved upon plates of ore and plates of gold, and it is of these plates we shall speak in this lesson. The Records or Plates. The records made by the colonies of people who settled up North America were engraved upon brass and golden plates. This was for a wise purpose divinely ordained. Most other substances would have decayed, corroded and gone into complete annihilation, but gold being one of the most enduring substances known, was selected by the historians of the ancient Americans. The Chinese anciently engraved their records, first upon bamboo slips, or wood, with a special knife, then bones were used, next bronze and stone were used by these ancient students and historians. The Jaredite Plates. When the first colony came out from the Tower of Babel and into the Promised Land, they were led by one Jared and his brother. These people kept very little in the way of records, yet there were twenty and four plates with engravings on them, discovered later by the Nephites, which gave an account of the Jaredites and which were translated and called the Book The of Ether.' Plates. (Omni, versesto 18, In addition 20; twenty-four these Mosiah, ch. Jaredite 8.) plates spoken of in the Book of Mormon are a set of brass plates which are called the Plates of Laban; then there are the two sets of 710 RELlEf SOCIETY MAGAZINE. plates prepared by Xephi, the large and the small plates; there is Mormon's abridgment on a set of small golden plates, with the twentyfour Jaredite plates, and Moroni's additional book. Plates of Nephi. Soon after the arrival of Lehi and his little colony on the promised land, Nephi received a commandment from the Lord to make certain "plates of ore" upon which to engrave a record of the doings of his people, and on these for many generations the secular history of the people was recorded. Some time later, or between thirty and forty years after the departure of Lehi from Jerusalem, Nephi was told by the Lord to "make other plates; and thou shalt engraven many things upon them which are good in my sight for the profit of thy people." Nephi, accordingly made this second set of plates, and upon them were engraven the sacred records of the first few Nephite prophets. The two sets of plates manufactured by Nephi were both called the Plates of Nephi; but their contents were not identical. Upon the first set was engraven the political history of the Nephites, and these were continued from century to century; upon the second their religious growth and development for only four hundred years. The one described the acts of their kings, and the wars, contentions and destructions which came upon the nation from Lehi down to the days of Mormon; the other ran down only to Mosiah's time and contained the story of the dealings of the Lord with that people, the ministry of his servants, the teachings and prophecies of that comparatively short period. Of the contents of the first set of plates of Nephi with the secular history on we know only through Mormon's abridgment; but the second set of plates is given to us in full in the first five books with the few words of Mormon added. Mormon's Abridgment. When Mormon was ten years of age he was taken by Ammaron, the last Nephite historian, to the hill called Shim, and was there shown the sacred engravings hidden in a cave containing records of his people. He found there the brass plates of Laban which had been brought at so much sacrifice and suffering out from Jerusalem by Nephi, and which contained the genealogy of Lehi's fathers as well as the history of the Jewish people down to the time of Zedekiah, at which time Lehi with his family left Jerusalem (I Nephi 5:10-22), and which, no doubt, were very cumbersome compared with the small golden plates which Nephi used for the sacred history. There are many of these larger plates as the history of the wars and contentions of the people, their travels and settlements here and there were all given in these plates. From the account given us by the Prophet Joseph Smith these plates were numerous and might have been of varying sizes. Here also he found the four and twenty plates containing the brief record of the Jaredites. GUIDE LESSONS. 711 After Mormon's final battle and his banishment he was inspired to make a record himself, a full account, so he tells us, of the wickedness and abominations which he himself beheld. Next and most important to us, he was inspired to prepare a small abridgment (Mormon 5:9) of these many records contained upon the plates of ore. This abridgment is contained in the books we know as: the Book of Mosiah, of Alma, of Helaman, of III Nephi, and of IV Nephi. He also made an abridgment of the records of Lehi and I Nephi which was the part first translated by the Prophet and was lost by Martin Harris. When Mormon was at work in the cave he says he ".searched among the records which had been delivered into my hands, and I found these plates, which contained this small account of the prophets, from Jacob, down to the reign of this king Benjamin; and also many of the words of Nephi. And the things which are upon these plates pleasing me, because of the prophecies of the coming of Christ. * ***** Wherefore, I chose these things to finish my record upon them, which remainder of my record I shall take from the plates of Nephi; and I cannot write the hundredth part of the things of my people. But behold, I shall take these plates, which contain these prophesyings and revelations, and put them with the remainder of my record, for they are choice unto me; and I know they will be choice unto my brethren. And I do this for a wise purpose; for thus it whispereth me, according to the workings of the Spirit of the Lord which is in me. And now, I do not know all things; but the Lord knoweth all things which are to come; wherefore, he worketh in me to 'do according to his will." . . Thus we see that the first five books of the Book of Mormon, are the original writings of the authors; note how they spoke: "I, Nephi," "I, Jacob," "I, Jarom," etc. The next six books are the abridgment of Mormon. The last two books were prepared by Moroni. Historians. Following are the names of the Nephite historians: Nephi, from  to 546 B. C. Jacob, from 546 to  . Enos, from  to 422. Jarom, from 422 to 362. Omni, from 362 to 318. Ammaron, from 318 to 280. Chemish, from 280 to  . Abinadom, from  to  . Amaleki, from  to 200 (about). King Benjamin, from 200 to 125. King Mosiah, from 125 to 91. 712 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Alma (the younger), from 91 to 73. Helaman (the elder), from 73 to 57. Shiblon, from 57 to 53. Helaman (the younger), from 53 to 39. Nephi, from 39 to 1. Nephi (the disciple), from 1 to 34 A. C. Nephi, from 34 to 110. Amos, from 110 to 194. Amos (the younger), from 194 to 306. Ammaron, from 306 to 320. Mormon, from 320 to 385. Moroni, from 385 to 421. Sets of Plates Mentioned in the Book of Mormon. The plates of Laban. I Nephi. chapter 3; chapter 5, verses 10-22. The Large Plates of Nephi (the secular history). I Nephi 1:17; 9:2-6.  The Small Plates of Nephi (containing the religious history of Lehi. Nephi, Jacob and sons down to Mosiah, with the words of Mormon). 9:2-6; chapter 6; I Nephi 10:1; Words of Mormon, verses 3-11. The Abridgment Plates of Mormon (must have been of the same size as the sacred plates of Nephi as the Prophet found them all fastened together with rings). IV Nephi 1:47-49. Book of Mormon 1:l-6; 2:17, 18. The Twenty-four Plates of the Jaredites. Book of Ether. Other References: I Nephi 1:16; ch. 6; Jacob 1:l-4; 3:13, 14; 4:l-3; Enos 1:13-18; Jarom 1:1, 2, 14, 15; Omni 1:3, 9, 11, 25. Thus we have a wonderful record, prepared in a marvelous way. No charlatan would have invented so involved yet so clear and definite an explanation of the recording and preservation of these books. One of the best proofs of the Book of Mormon itself is the clear, lucid manner in which any problem is met in its pages and solved without contradiction or coofusion. Many of our people think the Book of Mormon was written altogether by Mormon. This is only half of the truth, as this lesson indicates. QUESTIONS. How did the Chinese increase their early records? What were the plates of Laban? How were they obtained? GUIDE LESSONS. 713 How many sets of plates did Nephi prepare? What were Zarahemla's plates and what did they contain? What can you say write? did Moroni of Mormon's abridgment? How many sets of plates were there? 1 low many historians were there? What became of the first 116 pages translated by the Prophet Joseph Smith? History Preparation. Students are requested to read I Nephi and report readings at the next lesson for general discussion. NOTICE TO OUR STUDENTS. The General Board of the Relief Society have decided to present and history as this of year's and of next the Book year's theology lessons the study Mormon. The genealogical lessons which will continue as usual will take up the following: Racial history lessons: Gentile Semites, Descendants of Ham, Japheth, Racial Beginnings in Europe, Further Racial Divisions in Europe, and Race History in Great Britain. The Home Science lessons will treat on conservation of food, taking up as subjects: Plain Facts about Food, Spring Vegetables, Economy and Methods of Preparation; Cereals: rice, v/hole wheat flour, rye and corn bread, and bread-making; Products and by-products of the Dairy; Review of Canning and Drying lesson; Beans, peas, lentils and meat; Conservation of Clothing; Textiles and Fabrics, Choice and Care; Shoes and Hose; Conservation of Health of Children: Health the Best Gift; Conservation of Peace within; Christmas and the Prophet's Birthday. Because of the pressure upon our time and energies through war activities, added to the regular heavy responsibilities of our Relief Society work, the Board has decided to relieve the situation somewhat by discontinuing for this year, at least, the study of Literature. We hope the result will justify our action. Very few books need be purchased in the lesson work for the corning year. All our people have the sacred history of the Nephites, and we trust that all of our members have in the home, George Reynolds' Story of will follow his work in some the Book of Mormon, as our detail. Lists of U. S. Bulletins lessons suitable for the Home Science lessons will be given to be distributed from the Washington office of Senator Reed Smoot. Our new surname book has grown to such proportions and 714 RELIEF SOCIETY* MAGAZINE. so many difficulties have had to be overcome, that we are unable to present it to you for a little time longer. However, students w ill find help for this year's lessons in any good general history. Encyclopedias and geographies will serve as text books for the Facial History lessons. May the Lord add his blessing to all our earnest students, class teachers, officers and members of the great Relief Society. LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in January. LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in January. RACE HISTORY. Disobedient Races Descended from Shem. Not all the descendants of Shem were obedient to his teachings and to the principles of the gospel. Many of them fell away from time to time and some became great nations. Therefore, in this lesson those ancient Semitic nations which might be called "gentile" nations in contradistinction to obedient Semites, afterwards called the Hebiews, we shall here consider. We must call the attention of the student to the fact that we will not be able in this racial history to carry along our studies in a general or world-history chronological order, for the nations which grew out of the three great racial divisions (Semites, Hamites, and Japhethites conquered and were conquered by each other at various times, and very often under similar circumstances. However, we shall take each race down chronologically, in the various lessons, as they developed into nations, and leave the student to join together the historical events in review questions and by the aid of maps and a study of general ancient history. Assyria. Up in the northern part of the Valley of the Tigris (2250 B. C. to 600 B. C.) were the Assyrians, descendants of Asshur son of Shem. Tiglath-Pileser I in 1130 B. C. conquered the southern provinces and visited the warring Assyrian tribes. Sardanapalus followed him, and then Tiglath-Pileser II conquered Babylon. Syria and Judea. The Assyrians had founded the great GUIDE LESSONS. 715 city of Ninevah, which for a long time was simply a province of Babylonia; but in 728 B. C, Babylonia was conquered by an Assyrian and passed under Assyrian control. The Assyrians had local deities, each city having its own patron god. They believed in magic rites and incantations, in astrology, and they were great astronomers also. The fame of the Chaldean scholars and astrologers spread throughout the ancient world. They were the most cultured of the very ancient races. They possessed great learning in astronomy and mathematics and also patronized art and literature. The enormous mounds on the Babylonian plains have been excavated during the last 50 years with wonderful results. The Temple Library  written on clay tablets, unearthed at Nippur has uncovered a new world for moderns. Sennacherib (705 B.C.) and Asshur-Bani-Pal in 668 B.C. were the greatest monarchs of Nineveh for six centuries. The Ninevite or Assyrian kings ruled the East from about 1100 B. C. on to 625 B. C.  but in 606 B. C. Nineveh was taken and sacked by the Medes and Babylonians. Two hundred years later (400 B. C.) Xenophon with his 10,000 Greeks passed the desolate spot of crumbling ruins and did not even learn at that time the name of the great city of Nineveh. The old Babylonian Empire, or Chaldea, was founded soon after the confusion of tongues, about 2200 B. C. This Chaldean empire declined and was incorporated in the Assyrian empire. Media and Chaldea or the old Babylonian kingdoms rebelled against the Assyrians and became an independent kingdom. Sargon II, who reigned 722 B. C, filled the whole earth with his glory. He claimed descent from the Semitic king Sargon I, king of Babylon. Babylon was again conquered by Cyrus the Persian in 538 B. C, riding into the fortified capital of Babylon and subduing it. The Persian Empire. The Persians are descendants of Shenvs son Elam. After the destruction of Nineveh, the Medes and Persians were amalgamated, rose rapidly and founded a world empire. Cyrus the Great, 558 to 529 B. C, built up the greatest empire of ancient times. Darius the First, 484 B. C, conquered northwestern India and then went over into Europe and undertook to conquer the Greeks who had just risen into greatness as a nation. Darius was defeated at the Battle of Marathon, 484 B. C, and died. His son Xerxes headed an immense army and attempted to cross the Hellespont and invade Greece. He too was defeated, and in 334 B. C, Alexander the Great crossed the Hellespont and conquered Asia. Raees in Babylon. Tt is puzzling to decide which race lesson 716 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. shall contain the history of such nations as Babylon and Egypt, tor the city of Babylon was most probably built up by Ofimrod, grandson of Mam. and the great Tower was erected under his direction. Yet later heavy invasions of Semite  they were the disobedient descendants of Shem  came into Babylonia and the first great king, Sargon, of whom history speaks, was called a Semitic king. Therefore, we shall include the brief history of Babylon in this chapter, reminding our students of the constant mixing" and intermarriage of these ancient peoples. The Hebrews were the only ancient people, who kept their racial strain at all free from surrounding nations. Ancient Babylonia. Like the Nile valley, the long stretch of country watered by the Tigris-Euphrates, is dependent upon those waters for life and population. The first records of Babylon are set by scholars about 5,000 IV C. lie was contemporary with Abraham and no doubt Mesopotanlian lands were then filled with city states like those later found in Greece and Italy. This chronology is not accepted by us, but we present it here because the books give it thus. Each city had its patron god and was ruled by a king. Again the mind turns to the records of Moses in the fifth chapter of Genesis where Cain himself built the first city and named it after his son Enoch. The first king named by these modern clay records is Sargon the Eirst, who is called a Semitic king of Agade (3.700 B. C). How a king could lie called by historians a Semitic king when Shem was not born until 24-10 B. C. is some thing of a mystery. Sargon built up a powerful state in Babylonia and extended his ruling to the Mediterranean. He was a patron of letters and established mammoth libraries of clay tablets which are the oldest and most valuable libraries of the ancient world. Hammurabi. How insignificant a reminder of Flam is the name  Hammurabi was a famous ruler who reigned about 2000 B. C. He was cotemporary with Abraham and no doubt received much of his inspiration from that great prince. He has been identified by some writers with Chedorlaomer who formed a confederacy with Abraham. Hammurabi promulgated a code of laws which in some respect is remarkably like the Mosaic code of the Hebrews. We affirm that his inspiration must have come from the Patriarch Abraham instead of Abraham receiving his from a pagan king to hand on down to his posterity. For 1500 wars after Hammmurabi Babylon continued to be a great political and commercial empire. The Arabians. The country which lay in that portion of western say lying south and east of Judea, was settled up  if one could call it settled by the Tshmaelites, descended through GUIDE LESSONS. 717 Abraham from Shem and by other tribes such as the people of Kedar, all of whom led a wandering life, having no cities or houses or fixed habitations, but living wholly in tents. These people are now called Bedouins. In Arabia, south, the Edomites, descendants of Esau, and the Amalakites and their branches of the house of Esau, dwelt in constant conflict. There are, according to native historians, two races of Arabs: those descended through Joktan through Eber, Salah, Arphaxad and Shem, and these who claim Ishmael as their ancestor. There were also in Arabia, descendants of Cush, son of Ham. Added to these tribes were some of the descendants of Lot through his two ill-begotten sons, Moab and Ammon. In ancient times the Arabs were idolators and star worshipers. A form of Christianity made some progress in the third century amongst these tribes. They are now, however, nominally Mohammedans, but their religion sits but lightly on them. Isolated from other nations, and with slight exceptions, free from all foreign control, their ancient customs and habits are still retained and their language is comparatively the same as it was in ancient times. Not until the year 622 A. D. was there very much history made by this people. Then came the great Arabian prophet Mohammed. His spectacular and magnificent history is familiar to students. He was 40 years old when he assumed the office of a prophet and teacher. He taught that both the Jewish and the Christian religions were of divine origin, yet that God had given to him "a clearer and more perfect revelation. Indeed, as he phrases it, "There is but one God and Mohammed is His prophet." He gave many revelations and prepared the Arabian Bible called the Koran. These revelations were diligently recorded by the prophet's disciples, on dried palm leaves and on the shoulder bones of mutton, and one of his wives kept the sacred chest in which they were preserved. At his death they were collected and published or written by command of his successor, and thus we have the Koran. Mohammed's tenet was a belief in fate. His heaven was a very personal one filled with beautiful women and idle men. Says the Koran: "The sword is the key of heaven and of hell. A drop of blood shed in the cause of God, a night spent in arms, is of more avail than two months of fasting and prayer. Whoever falls in battle, his sins are forgiven." Mohammed died in 632 A. D. and his tomb is still an object of sacred pilgrimage. In 636 the Saracens, as the mixed Arab race was called, then defeated the Persian armies and Assyria also capitulated. In the seventh and eighth centuries the Saracens conquered Palestine, Egypt, Antioch, Alexandria, Carthage, and practically all of Asia. In 709 the Moors or Barbers, were also subdued. The Visi-goths were defeated and all of Spain, ex- 718 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. cept small states in the Pyrennes, was controlled by the Mohammedans. They remained in Spain for several centuries. The Mohammedan empire extended, in the eighth century, from western India and the Turkish lands to the Atlantic south of the Mediterranean, including the Spanish peninsula in Europe, and through this immense region, the will of a single caliph was law for a brief period. At the close of this century the Turkish tribes, who are descendants of the Tartars and Mongols and are said to be of Hamitic origin, were pressing into the Arabian empire. The most illustrious Arabian caliph who reigned in Bagdad, was Karoun al Raschid of the Arabian Knights fame, who reigned from 781 A. D. to 805 A. D. Tie was a just monarch and was surnamed the Just. 1 le was also a great warrior and sought alliance with Charlemagne, sending him many presents. The ninth century was a brilliant one for the Mohammedans, but in the tenth century the Turks, who had been hired by the Arabs as soldiers, proved stronger than the luxury-corrupted Arabians. [n this century the Turks had conquered Persia and the Turks and Tartars soon conquered the Saracens and Arabs. In 1063 A. I)., the Turks had obtained control of Arabia and of Turkey in Asia and Europe. Jerusalem was also brought under the heel of the Turkish empire shortly after this period. The history of Turkey will be given in the lesson on the Hamites. In these lessons we have not considered the story of other descendants of Shem such as the Syrians and Lydians, for their history is soon absorbed by the other nations about them, and, therefore, will not occupy our attention. In the Arabian peninsula there still exists the descendants of Esau, of Ishmael, and of Lot. Most of them retain their ancient habits and customs, yet all are today controlled practically by the Turks who are descended from I lam. questions. Who were the Semites? What is a Gentile? What can you say of the Persians? Tell the story of the Babylonian empire. What difference is there between an Arab and a Turk? ( See encyclopedia, or a general history, for full answers to all these questions. High schools use good general histories and many towns have public libraries. Use any references available always remembering that much ancient history outside of the Bible is often largely conjecture and theory. GUIDE LESSONS. 719 LESSON III. Home Economics. Fourth Week in January. Plain facts about food. Food values in 100 calorie portions. References: Feeding the Family, Rose. Laboratory Manual, Rose. Principles of Cookery, Greer. Food for the Worker, Stem and Spitz. Good Bulletins: No. 142, "Principles of Nutrition and Nutritive Value of Food." No. 128, "Eggs and Their Uses as Food.'' No. 34, "Meat Composition and Cookery." No. 413, "Care of Milk and Use." LESSON I. PLAIN FACTS ABOUT FOOD. Education in food values is not only necessary for the mother let also for the father. Mothers have carried the food responsibility a long way in silence, and to a certain extent in self-pity because we have held to the tradition that all women can cook. Some of us are brave enough to say that there are many exceptions to that old tradition for experience has taught that all women cannot cook well. There has also been a belief among men that food which was made especially pleasurable on feast days and holidays was a somewhat isolated factor in the well-being of the household. Fathers need to be interested and given some responsibility in the vital question of feeding the family. Many cases of lowered vitality in adults are directly traceable to bad food habits. Many of these bad food habits are directly due to the example set by adults. One child has not learned to eat gravy, another does not eat vegetables, while a third refuses milk because father has limited food tastes. Responsibility of parents must include efficient training of their children in selection and eating of proper foods as well as proper nourishment of their own bodies. The progress of many women has been hampered in their food study because of lack of co-operation or harmony with all of the members of the household. Variance from established custom has been difficult to establish when potatoes for example were $3 per bushel and rice 10 cents a pound, which in some cases made the housekeeper's attempt in potato substituting unsuccessful. Food traditions which placed rice in puddings made it easy 720 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. for some members of the family to refuse rice as a vegetable. Such extreme conservation discouraged mothers in trying new combinations in food besides destroying the harmony or balance in the meal which had been carefully planned. This offers an illustration of one of the many difficulties which are possible in the well ordered co-operate home. We need harmony in any attempt to improve home conditions for an enthusiastic, progress sue spirit is just as necessary as in municipal progress. Food cooperation will probably not be difficult in most cases as the writer's experience places men as most interested listeners on food topics. Parents must be converted to the fact that the taste for any article of diet can be acquired at will, and conquered at pleasure. Because we have so often purchased the year's supply of coal in one lot. the tradition used burning it is "coal is coal" rather than "coal is money." Just so is the attitude on food substitutes. Many people have never acquired the power to mentally taste new foods or taste old foods prepared in new ways. Such people are food cripples. Let the word he carried that we should eat 99 out of every 100 foods and get pleasure from the variety afforded. Such intelligent food habits will give US a better chance fur balanced meals. Another ancient theory shared by many people is that, primarily, "eating is a pleasure." Pour hundred years ago among the Gourmands it was a pleasure. The more recent theory, however, is that primarily, "eating is a duty." The busy mother whose cooking and sewing responsibility rests heavily on her mind at mealtime, should make this latter text a working principle in her life. Many nervous, irritable, broken down mothers are so because of eating insufficient food. Mothers should try to measure the food they consume with the required daily amount and determine if their day's supply has been sufficient. One busy mother whose energy requirement was 2.500 calories was eating only about 1,100 calories which is less than enough to obtain body equilibrium in bed. During the season of heavy work on the farm great care should be exercised in order that sufficient food may be supplied to meet the extra energy demands. The housewives in the older countries seem to have met this need by serving bet ween -meal lunches. These may be very simple and may not be more than a bowl of bread and milk or bread and cheese or milk and cookies, or fruit beverage and sandwich. Sometimes the food supply is not regulated to the body demands. Many colds in winter are the direct result of overeating. Men who are working only part of the day should eat less food than if they work long hours. Many men and boys during the winter months of partial inactivity thus suffer needlessly from colds because they have not good food habits for periods of low GUIDE LESSONS. 721 energy output. Doctors say they can well afford to be extravagant in gift-giving at Christmas time because their harvest comes immediately after the holidays. Excessive stoking of the body engine has filled it with clinkers which must be removed in order to restore harmony to the body processes. "Health is the harmonious relation and activity of all parts of the body." The right kinds of food in proper amounts is a very important health factor. Children who are under-nourished either from organic causes or under-feeding, are not in harmony with themselves or others. Much irritability is directly traceable to the alimentary canal and most of the disturbances, in what Dr. Wiley calls the most dangerous canal in the world, are unquestionably due to bad selection of food, improper cooking or careless eating. We must give full value to the fact that good food habits in children are quite as important as are the so-called ''manners" and the multiplication table. Imperfect nutrition should reflect just as much discredit on the family as ignorance in the common school branches. By the time a child is five or six years old he should know and like most simple well cooked dishes, make proper combinations and eat carefully. Such training will mean much in body building for the succeeding twenty years when growth is attained. Good health in adult life is founded in childhood. Malnutrition often shows itself in so-called fits of temper which in high strung children are really "nerve storms." At signs of possible outbreak of a fit of so-called temper it is a good thing to give the child some hot, light refreshments such as broth, soup, or hot milk and put the child to bed until equilibrium is restored. There seems to be a general misunderstanding as to the food requirement of elderly people. The demands for energy are lessened and only a necessary body-equilibrium process is carried on so that the food requirements are considerably less than in youth and middle age. The fuel requirement for a person between 70 and 80 is only about 1,800 calories which is about the same as required for the eight-year old. Calorie is simply the food unit of measure and need not be more confusing than the yard, gallon or quart. The food requirements have been studied carefully and devices called calorimeters or calorie measures make it possible to estimate food requirements. By means of the two kinds of calorimeters food values have been measured both inside and outside of the body. In figuring food requirements the following factors are considered: size, age, shape, sex, height, weight, habits, work, surface. A tall, thin person needs more food per weight than does the short, plump one. The active growing boy, 7 to 14, frequently needs more food than his mother. The man who is doing heavy 722 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. manual labor requires twice the food that is necessary for the man doing light work. The cheapest source of heat and energy and building material is found in the cereals, but the proportion of protein in them is insufficient for the day's supply. When a quart of milk for each child under 8 is allowed, and a pint for each adult where a reasonable number of eggs are used, meat need not be served more than once a day. The cost of cereals when bought in large amounts should be about one-half cent for 100 calorie portion. Protein foods cost from two cents to five cents more per 100 calorie portion. Vegetables and fruits vary as to season, but cost from one-half cent or less to twenty cents per 100 calorie portion, e. g.. when potatoes at sixty cents a bushel to celery or asparagus at fifteen cents a bunch, we get the two extremes of cost. However, the careful housewife will spend as much of the income for fruits and vegetables as she will for meats and cereals. In order that those under her charge shall not lack in animal salts and vitamins, considerable thought needs to be given to fresh foods in the day's diet. The old Italian proverb, "An apple a day keeps the doctor away," might well be paraphrased into ''Fresh fruit and vegetables each day keeps the doctor away." Cabbage salad, raw onion, apples, (ranges, celery and lettuce all have a place in the winter diet. QUESTIONS. use 1. in their Any own threesome. members of the Three other class to give to compare members day's meals with suggestive meals in lesson. 2. Mow is it possible to arrange for different amounts and kinds of food to suit varying conditions of family al a meal? 3. Give substitutes for the following foods: Meat, bread, sugar. 4. In what ways have you changed your meal service to meet present conditions? (See Nome Science Department.) RELIEF SOCIETY IUTREAC OF INFORMATION  AND EXCHANGE. A bureau of information  with headquarters in this office has been authorized by the General Board of the Relief Society between stake and ward organizations who desire to exchange or sell food products and supplies. A lady in Salt Lake stake wishes to buy home bottled corn and peas. Cecity Never Faileth The Relief Society Magazine Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints VOLUME IV May the Relief Society Magazine enter upon its noble mission so firmly surrounded by the bulwarks of worthy and capable endeavor and enduring truth that its career may be successful and glorious.''  Joseph F. Smith. Published by the General Board of the Relief Society Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Editor Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, Manager Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Assistant Manager 1917 GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Xihieky Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Emily S. Richards Miss Edna May Davis Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnswqrth Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs Priscilla P. Jennings Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director INDEX MISCELLANEOUS PROSE Home Science Department 26, 97, 156, 214, 271, A Brave Friend 266 340, 395, 459, 520, 572, 633, 692 Admiral George Dewey and Home, Mrs. Alice Merrill 10 Homer Davenport 147 How to Make Homemade Fedra Forced Business Venture... 13 less Cooker 386 A Friend of the Helpless Dead 483 Industrial Education in the A Morning Reverie 138 Brigham Young University. 436 An Canada Interesting Occurrence in135 Isohel ner Gives a New Year's Din- 16 An Incident of Faith 83 Jennings, Mrs. Priscilla Paul.. 423 An Inteersting Outgrowth of June Entertainment 333 the Relief Society in Nauvoo 123 July Entertainment 388 Another Widowed Mother.... 304 Latter-day Temples 183 April Entertainment 211 Lyman, Mrs., in Denver 691 August Entertainment 433 Lyman, Francis M 63, 65 A Utah Girl in France 690 Making a Husband Out of a Birthday Celebration of Our Man 611 Honored President 200 May Entertainment 262 Birth Control 68 Mark Twain Observations.... 622 Book Reviews 686 Medical Colleges Open Doors Children's Problems 259 to Women 605 Common Sense 339 Mother Entertains 380 Conservation as Practiced by Mother Love 447 the Women of the Relief SoMother's Christmas 678 ciety 543 Mothers in Israel Current Topics. 34, 99, 158, 220, 268, 21, 77, 131, 243, 371, 425, 603 347, 392, 455, 517, 576, 636, 701 New Year Epistle 3 December Entertainment.... 698 Notes from the Field... 30, 91, 151, Departed Spirits 255 217, 274, 399, 449, 509, 565, 639 Early Amusements in Utah... 431 Object, Origin and Destiny of Epistle of the Relief Society Women 377 Concerning these War Times 363 Our Boys in France 553 Evolution of the American Flag 337 Our Lovely Human Heritage. . 74 Extract from the Report of Our New Board Member (Miss Mrs. W. Mont Ferry on Lillian Cameron) 201 Woman's Committee Utah Liberty Loan Parents' Problems 707 Pin Money Suggestions 623 335 February Entertainment 88 Real Economy in the Home. .. ,503 First Winter in Salt Lake City, Red Cross Work in the Relief 1847 367 Society 430 General Conference of the ReSmith, Pres. Joseph F., on Card lief Society 305, 665 Playing 390 Grant, President Heber J 67 Social Family Meetings 391 Her Prophecy and Its Fulfil- ^Z^ 2STp S?*^s i"^"" Program for Ann,- "2 ment 616 versaryve Day Suggesti 140 Home Entertainment 505, 630 The Disease Germ in Utah.... 331 Home Evening Entertainment The Historical Office of the 24, 145 First Presidency 606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The tceless Refrigerator 3S7 Allen. Mrs.. Out Hunting 545 The Music Page 146 Arizona Desert as It Looked The Red Cross 489 when Mrs. Allen Took Up The Red Cross Conference in Her Claim 547 Denver 687 \rt Exhibit, B. Y. U 437 The Relief Societv Ward PresiArt Glass Window in Salt Lake dent 149 Temple 482 The Widow's Mite 499 At L. D. S. Headquarters, ZuUnusual Mothers 683 rich. Switzerland 308 Washington's Vision 84 Barton, Clara 489 What Women Can Do in CanCake Made by Mrs. Georgina ning 369 O'Brien 513 Cameron. Lillian 201 Winning the Man's Mother... 202 Camp at Keokuk 243 POETRY. Camp at Wood River 373 A Boquet and a Sentiment... . 481 Canadian Temple 191 Alice 137 Church at Laie 187 Are We Wise? 379 Church Schools, B. Y. U.. ProA Tribute to the Birthday of vo, 1896 44i the Prophet Joseph Smith.. 663 Class in Cooking. B. Y. U 443 A Widow Mother to Her Son. 303 Concrete House Built by Mrs. Balm 629 Allen 546 Be Ye Also Ready 148 Council Bluffs Ferry, 1853.... 242 Christmas 661 Consolation 163 Electric Ovens Heater and Quick- 342 Does It Pay 446 Electric Stove with Fireless Enlist Now 464 Cooker Oven 341 From Our Friend's Album.... 59 Emigrant Train Crossing the Tn Memory of 1847 361 Plains 130 I Ought to Know 541 Entrance to Kanesville 248 Laudamus 421 Fine Needlework. B. Y. U 438 Life's Wintry Way 11 First Domestic Science DepartLines 571 meant in the Church Schools, Little Silver Mother 181 B. Y. U., Provo. 1896 441 Mother 23 Font for the Hawaiian Temple 182 My Christmas Musings 697 Gas Broiler and Quick Oven.. 343 My Christmas Prayer 704 Gas Stove with Fireless Heat My Masterpiece 241 Holder and Quick Oven 344 On the Way 227 Gates' Cold Water Washer. . . . 28 Paradise Lost 61 Genealogical Class in Hawaii.. 195 Reclaimed 486 General Board Relief Society. 2 Some Day We'll Meet Somewhere 120 Great Salt Lake City in 1853.. 362 564 Hawaiian Temple 192 The Closing of the Year 686 Historic Old Office of the First The Congress Lady 73 Presidency 606 The Magic of Song 552 Honolulu Relief Society LayThe Relief Society Sisters.... 121 ing Floral Wreaths or Leis There's a Way Out 700 on Kamahaha's Monument.. 281 The Star Spangled Banner.... 301 Home, Alice Merrill 10 Things Worth While 61 Too Busy 15 Hyde's Mrs., Garden 573, 574 Your Laugh 601 Hyde's. Mrs.. Garden on the Zion 432 City Street 572 Interior of Inner Room Used ILLUSTRATIONS. for the Relief Society 609 Allen, Mrs., and Her Father Interior of the Front Office Planting 548 Now Used by the Relief SociAllen's. Mrs.. Father Plowing. 549 ety 607 INDEX. Jennings, Mrs. Priscilla Paul.. 422 Twins Born Several Weeks Kirtland Temple 184 after the Father had Fallen Ladies' Gown Exhibit, B. Y. U. 439 in the Battlefield. The Laie Plantation 196 Mother is Mrs. Elizabeth L. D. S. Church Headquarters, Hofer, Pres. of the Relief Basel, Switzerland 311 Society, Frankfurt, Germany 309 Leamington Relief Society Uofinished Hawaiian Temple. 192 Wheat Field, Grown on the Woolley, Pres. Samuel, Elders Town Baseball Field...... 566 and Saints at Laie 194 Living Flag 302 Zurich Relief Society 306 Logan Temple 188 Loup Fort Ferry 250 GUIDE DEPARTMENT Lyman, Mary M 304 Manti Temple 189 Theology  Missionaries  President FranGleaning in Alien Fields... 286 cis M. Lyman and Others 62. 64 Israel in Exile  Esther.... 465 Mission House at Laie 193 Missouri River and Council Israel in Judith's Times New Testament Time 524 645 Bluffs 245 Seeking a Wife  Rachel. . 164 Nauvoo 122 Seeking a Wife  Rebecca.. 104 Nauvoo Temple 185 The Abrahamic Age 41 New Electrical Equipment, B. The Book of Mormon 709 Y. U 444 The Days of the Judges... 230 Officers of Berlin Relief Soci The New Testament Times 584 ety 307 Genealogy  Colonization from Babel... 588 Pittsburg Relief Society 448 Relief Society Calendar, 1917. . 1 Nick and Descriptive Names 233 Relief Society of Honolulu, Outlines of Anciant History 649 Place Names 168 Marching in Parade on KaPrefixes and Suffixes 290 mahaha Day 280 Relief Society Presidents of Race History 714 Seven Salt Lake City Stakes 662 Surnames from the Village 46 Residence of Heber C. KimThe Ancestry of the Teutons 528 ball, Nauvoo, 111 128 The Historical Fatherland Rossiter, Mrs. Venus R. and and Migrations of Our Relief Society Member, HiAncestry 469 kuere, Society Islands...... 178 Trade Names 109 Ruins of Nauvoo Temple 76 Salt Lake Temple 186 Literature  Autumn Leaves in LiteraScotch Bluff On the Plains.. 253 ture 532 Smith, Mrs. Edna L., who PreChildren's Stories and Story sides Over the Sister WorkWriters 472 ers in the Salt Lake Temple 484 Old Time Tales 294 Smith, Susan West, Wife of Poetry for Children 171 Pres. George A. Smith 602 Stories from Scripture.... 592 Spokane Relief Society 30 The Author at Work 51 St. George Temple 187 The First Christmas Day.. 653 St. Paul Relief Society 91 The Song or Lyric 112 Sunday School Nursery Dept. True Stories 235 of Second Ward, Liberty Home Economics  Stake 282 Bottle-fed Babies 116 Thomas, Delwyn 553 Canning Soups 409 Thomas, Delwyn, in Marseilles 556 Children's Clothing 535 Three Children of Mrs. Lucy Correct Nursing Habits.... 56 W. Snow 623 Food for School Boys and Three Women from Budapest. 310 Girls 238 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Introduction of Solid Foods 17<> Fagargren, Clara 503 Plain Facts About Preservation of Fruits Food... and"1(> Gates, Fisher, SusaIla Young 75, 704 489 Vegetables 351 Grant, Heber J 63 Spiritual Cbaracter Building Green, Lucy May 24, 88, in Childhood 656 140. 145. 14S, 211, 262. 388, 391, The ChildRecreation and 435, 505, 616. 630. 333; 335. 698 the Parents' Co-operation 475 1 1 vde, Janette A 26,97, 156, The Formation of Chil- 214, 271, 340, 395, 459, ,572, 633 dren's Character 596 Ipswick, Ida 202 Various Factors Affecting Jacobsen, Grace 379 the Use of Foods 298 Jenkins, Laura Moeneh...255, 499 Jensen, Marie 11, 98, 446 EDITORIAL. Key. Francis Scott 301 \ Call to the Women of the Lambourne, Alfred...23, 303, 661 Church 36 Lyman, Amy Brown Arc You Conserving Yourself? 580..30, 91. 151, 217, 274, 399, 449. \ Word of Counsel 705 509, 565, 639, 305, 665, 687 Our Annual Day 160 Lyman, Mary M 304 Our Conference 349 McClendon, Faith 686 Our Thanksgiving Debt 642 Miller, Sarah Jane Rich 431 September Twenty-rirst, EightM or ley, Christopher 73 een Twenty-three 522 Nelson, Mrs. Parley. 15, 90, 227, 552 Signs of the Times 706 Nibley, Charles W 321 Spiritual Manifestations 228 Palmer. Annie D. S 138, 541 The Rattle is On 461 Parish. Diana 16, 380, 678 The Relief Society in it> AttiPeay, Ida Stewart 13 tude to Dress and Social Reid, Diantha Lowry 367 Customs 101 Reynolds, Alice Louise. .. .65, 147 War 405 Richards. L Lula Greene.. 137. 481 War is Upon Us 284 Roberts, Annie P 564 Service, Robert W 59 INDEX TO AUTHORS Smith. Pres. Joseph F 314 Snow, Eliza R 663 Anderson. James II. Snow, Lucy Wright 259, 623 34. 99, 158, 220, 268, Stephens. Evan 445 347. 392, 455, 517, 576, 626, 701 Stephens; Lena C 163 Baggarley, Maud. 121, 571, 629, 700 Sundwall, Jessie 61 Black, Coral J 486 Thomas, Carrie S 421 Brown, Leah 120 Thomas, Kate 181 Cannon, Annie Wells 149,r, c, AA-j 241 Valentine, Sophy 447 Carroll. Elsie C 697 Clark. Lucy I 445 Washburn, Hazel 61, 361, Dobson, Maud 432 Young, Margaret Whitehead.. 601 WHAT EVERY WOMAN SHOULD KNOW. The following topics are treated and the Bulletins are available through the Bureau of Education at Washington, or through Senator Reed Smoot, Senate Chamber: The Needs of the Bod}-  Farmers' Bulletin, No. 142. Principles of Nutrition and Nutritive Value of Food. How to Select Food  Farmers' Bulletin, No. 808, "How to Select." Care Foinodthe Handling and Keeping of Foods  Farmers' Bulletin, No. 375, "Care of Food in the Home." Small Economics, Food Thrift Series  United States Department of Agriculture. What the Home Garden Should Provide  Publications School and Home Garden Division, United States Bureau of Education. The Unnecessary Consumption of Food  Publications Department of Agriculture. Conditions Affecting the Cost of Food  Publications Department of ? Agriculture. Conditions Affecting the Digestion of Foods  Department of Agriculture Bulletins. Feeding Infants  and Children  Bulletins Department of Agriculture. Public Health Service, Treasury Department; Children's Bureau Publications, Labor Department. Results of Incorrect Diet Public Health Reprints, Nos. 307, 311, 325, and 333. Public Health Supplements to Public Health Reports  No. 5. Special Diets for the Sick and Convalescent  Public Health Service, Treasury Department. Community Feeding Problem  Papers from the Institution Economics Section of the American Home Economics Association, 1915. When you buy the Wedding Ring, Buy the Best See them at $5.50 to $12.00 McConahay'sMade of One Piece Solid 18 Karat Gold 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City BeautyParlors Z. C. M. I. FREE! "SO LONG, MOTHER - Facial Massages "ITS A LONG WAY TO BERLIN Hair Dressing (But we'll get there)  Manicuring 'THE STARS AND STRIPES Hair and Scalp Treatments WILL WAVE 0 ER GERMANY" "WHEN WE WIND UP THE Nell C. Brown WATCH ON THE RHINEHair and Scalp Specialist These big hits and 16 others, delivered in charge to you with ycur choice of any Columbia Grafonola for a 5-day trial without a Consultation Free penny down. We pay freight. No obligation and you can send the outfit back after 5 days if you wish. Write for free catalogs, showing Grafonolas (in colors, with 424 page record book and prices, terms and full particulars of our offer. Write at once. Offer limited. DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC COMPANY 613-5 Main St, Salt Lake Cily, Utah Excursions East I we have ever We would ysuggest earl displayed. Following Round Trip [ Fares will apply from: Salt Lake City or Ogden | that you order (rates subject to war I tax after Nov. 1, 1917): j Denver $27.50 j Colorado Pueblo Oinaba Soring!*.. or Knoftnn J7..".n 27.50!j Pembroke Company City St. Louis 42.50 53.70 i i 22 East Broadway, Salt L ake Cily Memphis 62.50 I Chicago 61.50 i Mlnneapolln or St. Paul 58.04 Correspondingly low rates from many other points to many other points. See Agents for details. Tickets sold November 24. 27 December 20. 22, 24 Limit  Three months from date of sale. . J. Kyem, IS. S. Spencer, Dist. Pass. Agt.. Gen. Pass. Agt., Hotel Utah Salt Lake, Utah Tin in. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE AGRICULTURE HOME ECONOMICS COMMERCE AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING MECHANIC ARTS GENERAL SCIENCE The Agricultural College by Federal and State Law is designated to supply THE NEEDS OF THE NATION IN TCIE OF WAR as well as in times of peace. OFFICERS FOR THE UNITED STATES ARMY It now has established a unit of the Reserve Officers' Training Corps, which is designed to prepare officers for the United States Army. FOOD PRODUCERS  To successfully prosecute the war, food must be produced and conserved under scientific supervision in order to reach a maximum production and minimize the waste. ENGINEERS  Expert training, on the part of large numbers of men, in surveying, construction, machine work, automobile care and repair, hydraulics, irrigation and drainage engineering, architecture, wood, iron, and steel work, farm machinery, is necessary to National efficiency and National security. LEADERS IN HOME LIFE  Ignorance is mankind's greatest enemy. Yearly it invades the United States and steals away 200,000 infants . Learning and wisdom in relation to child-rearing and home management is made obyious by this dreadful mortality. Science must take hold of the governing of the American home. The WINTER TERM Commences DECEMBER 3 Write for catalogue of the Utah Agricultural College. Address: THE PRESIDENT, LOGAN, UTAH. Garment Wearer's Attention gapments A label like the above is found below the Temple brand in the neck of all L. D. S. "Temple Brand" garments. Be sure it is in those you buy. If your leading dealer does not have the garment you desire, select your wants from this list and send us the order. We will pay postage to any part of the United States. Samples submitted on request. Cotton, bleached, light weight $1.00 Mercerized cotton, light weight.... 2.00 Cotton, bleached, gauze weight.... 1.35 Mercerized cotton,medium weight 3.00 Cotton, bleached, medium weight 1.50 Wash-shrunk woohmedium weight 2.50 Cotton, bleached, medium heavy 1.75 Wash-shrunk wool, heavy weight.. 3.00 Cotton, unbleached, heavy weight 1.75 Silk and wool, medium weight.... 3.51 Lisle, bleached, gauze weight 2.00 Lisle, bleached, light weight 1.75 Australian wool, medium weight 3.5# Fleeced cotton, bleached, heavy.. 2.00 Australian wool, heavy weight.... 6.00 SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE 70 MAIN STREET, SALT LAKE CITY SPECIAL EXCURSION CALIFORNIA VIA Southern Pacific $40 Round Trip Including both San Francisco and Los Angeles Tickets on sale December 20, 22, 24, 29. Final Limit Feb, 28 F. E. SCOTT, District Passenger Agent, 203 Walke  Bank Bldg. Waiatc. 6610 SOUTHERN PACIFIC

