JUNE 1917 (Vol. IV No. 6)
CONTENTS:

The Star-Spangled Banner 301
A Widowed Mother to her Son Alfred Lambourne 303
Another Widowed Mother 304
General Conference of the Relief Society Amy Brown Lyman 305
The Disease Germ in Utah 331
June Entertainments Morag 333
Pin Money Suggestions Morag 335
Evolution of the American Flag A. B. L. 337
Common Sense 339
Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde 340
Current Topics James H. Anderson 347
Editorial: Our Conference 349
Guide Lessons 351

ADVERTISERS:

BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City
DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City
KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City
MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City
McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City
RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City
GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY, 60 East South Temple
OREGON SHORT LINE RAILWAY, Salt Lake City
PEMBROKE STATIONERY CO., 22 E. Broadway
SALT LAKE KNITTING STORE, 70 S. Main
STAR PRINTING CO., 30 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City
SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J., Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City
SOUTHERN PACIFIC RY., Second Floor, Walker Bk. Bldg., Salt Lake City
THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City
TAYLOR, S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257 E. First So. St., Salt Lake City
UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY, Salt Lake City, Utah
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City
WOMEN OF THE BIBLE, by Willard Done
Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City
THE STAR-SPANGLED BANNER O say, can you see, by the dawn's early light, What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming, Whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight, O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming? And the rockets' red glare, the bombs bursting in air, Gave proof, through the night, that our flag was still there. CHORUS. O say, does that Star-spangled Banner yet wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave? .On the shore, dimly seen through the mists of the deep, Where the foe's haughty host in.dread silence reposes, What is that which the breeze, o'er the towering steep, As it fitfully blows, now conceals, now discloses? Now it catches the gleam of the morning's first beam. In full glory reflected, now shines on the stream; CHORUS. Tis the Star-spangled Banner; O long may it wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave! And where is that band who so vauntingly swore That the havoc of war and the battle's coofusion A home and a country should leave us no more? Their blood has washed out their foul footsteps' pollution. No refuge could save the hireling and slave From the terror of flight or the gloom of the grave; CHORUS. And the Star-spangled Banner in triumph doth wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave. O thus be it ever, when freemen shall stand Between their loved homes and the war's desolation! may the heav'n-rescued land Blest Praise Powerandthatpeace, withtheyict'ry hath made and preserved us a nation! Then conquer we must, when our cause it is just; And this be our motto: "In God is our trust!" CHORUS. And the Star-spangled Banner in triumph shall wave O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave. Francis Scott Key. THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. IV. No. 6 JUNE, 1917. A Widow Mother to Her Son When He Told Her He Would Enlist (A True Incident) My son, O listen to these words I speak  Nor shame is mine that tears bedew my cheek  Tho' deep the anguish in thy mother's heart, She knows that duty bids us now to part. Ah! fathomless that love a mother feels, Divine, unselfish, soul to soul it seals; My son, thou art my One, thou art my All, Yet through my love I hear our country call. A prayer for thee shall be my every breath  0 spare my son, and give him not to death  Yet must thou die that man be not a slave, Still go, be true, and fill a hero's grave! Alfred Lambournc. Another Widowed Mother. (Note) The exquisitely beautiful poem which opens this Magiicine was already in the hands of the printers, when the following letter was received by Prof. Richard R. Lyman, husband of Amy Brown Lyman, written by one of our faithful Relief Society presidents Mrs. Mary M. Lyman, of Deseret Stake. While in attendance at the recent Relief Society Conference, she stated that she felt that she would be unpatriotic if she refused to allow her sons to enlist in the army, adding. "If my country needfl my sons, it will have them, and it will yet them as volunteers." The son referred to in the letter, a bright and vigorous boy of 19, is now at Fori Scott in San Francisco, in the COUntr/s service. MARY M. LYMAN. Delta, Utah, April 14, 1917. My Darling Loved Richard, Salt Lake City, Utah. My boasted patriotism is now put to the severest test. 1 have been weighed in the balance, but not found wanting, although the tears will come and the pain in my heart is all that I can bear Rich has enlisted and will start for Salt Lake at 11:19 Sunday night. But through all the smart and tears T thank the Lord I have not raised a coward. You told me once what an ordeal it was to you when Jean Driggs requested you to arrange his affairs before going to the Rorder. You can imagine the feelings of a poor widowed mother going through the same ordeal. Love to Amy and the children. Richard, pray for your sorrow-burdened aunt, Mary M. Lyman. General Conference of the Relief Society. Amy Brown Lyman The Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City, Wednesday and Thursday, April 4 and 5, 1917. Two public sessions were held, Wednesday, April 4, in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall, and two sessions for stake officers were held Thursday, April 5, in the Assembly Hall of the Bishop's building. The Home Economics Department held two demonstrations during the Conference at which gas and electric stoves with fireless ovens were demonstrated. This department also held a special meeting in the interest of pure milk, with Prof. Fred W. Merrill, of Minneapolis, Minnesota, as the speaker. A special meeting was held for secretaries and treasurers during the noon recess, on April 5, at which time methods for compiling reports, were discussed. A genealogical meeting was held Saturday, at the Salt Lake Assembly Hall at 4:30 p. m. This meeting was held in connection with and under the direction of the Genealogical Society of Utah. On Thursday evening a brilliant reception was held at the home of Counselor Julina L. Smith  Bee-hive House  at which the members of the General Board of the Relief Society were hostesses to the General Boards of the Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations and the official representatives of the Relief Society; 350 women called during the hours from eight to eleven. Thursday noon, luncheon was served to the 390 stake officers who were in attendance at the officers' meeting. The attendance at the Conference was larger than ever before. At the morning session of the public meeting 1,545 were in attendance, and at the afternoon meeting the number was swelled to 1,946. At the two officers' meetings which were limited to stake officers there were present 390. The representation at the officers' meetings was as follows: General Board members, 19; stake representatives, 58  42 by stake presidents and 16 by other officers; missions represented, 1. Total number of officers present, 390. The mission represented was the Western States, by the President, Mrs. Jane W. Herrick. Mx> RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The attendance of stake presidents was larger than ever before in the history of the Relief Society, the number, 42. being the largest so far recorded. There were 51 stake counselors present., 12 -takesecretaries, and 5 stake treasurers. There was a large attendance of stake hoard members, in s me of the near-by stakes the per cent of attendance being 100. The Relief Society choir, under the able direction of Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, furnished the singing for the general session of the Conference, and our General Organist, Miss Edna Coray, furnished artistic accompaniments and voluntaries. Two special numbers were given, one by the male quartette Samuel 1). Winters. Charles Parsons, Verne Arnold and Frank Parsons  and the other, a tenor solo, by Dr. W. R. Worley. At the officersmeetings, Mrs. Edward led in congregational singing. President Emmeline B. Wells presided at the meetings of the Conference In her opening address, she extended cordial greetZURICH RF.I.IF.F SOCIETY. ings to the large assemblage. She expressed her appreciation to her heavenly Father that her life had been spared and that she was permitted to enjoy another General Conference of the Relief Society. Referring to the national crisis. President Wells said that perilous tiiue^ have come among us, probably sooner than most of us imagined they would. Our hearts are filled with grief and. sorrow over the loss of life incident to the great world war. and our sympathy and love go out to those who are so sorely afGENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 307 flicted and bereft. The prophecies are being fulfilled which declare that it will hardly be possible to endure the things that arc to come in the last days, that the hearts of men will tremble with fear and that men and women will come to Zion to be fed. Mrs. Wells urged her hearers to prepare themselves for the tests that are to come, by being frugal and saving, prayerful and faithful, and by cultivating a spirit of love and charity for all mankind. She emphasized the importance of conservation of all resources and the need of being provident not only in the matter of OFFICERS OF BERLIN RELIEF SOCIETY. Taken at celebration, March 17th. storing grain, but all other food supplies as well. Mrs. Wells spoke of the early days of the Church, at Nauvoo, and of her own testimony that the Prophet Joseph Smith had been sent to build up a Church that would endure till the coming of Christ. She closed by asking God's blessings on our country and all her people. She prayed especially for the youth of Zion, that they might turn to God for guidance and protection that their hearts might be stimulated with the desire to do deeds of valor and honor, of kindness and of charity and love. Mrs. Aggie Herrick Stevens, President of the Weber stake Relief Society, in a response to the welcome extended by President Wells, spoke with appreciation of the work of the General Board. She stated that the great body of workers in the Relief Society 308 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. look to the General Board for spiritual refreshment and practical instruction as the weary traveler in the desert looks to the oasis. She felt that the General Board is composed of women of faith, charitv. efficiency and refinement, and that they are instrumental in aiding the Relief Society women to become better home managers, better mothers, and more loyal wives. She spoke very feelingly of her love, and of the love of every member of our great Society, for our beloved president, whom she characterized as a woman of gifts and graces and of the highest spiritual nature and moral strength. Mrs. Stevens referred to the Relief Society AT Till-. L. D. S. HEADQUARTERS, ZURICH, SWITZERLAND. Magazine as a messenger of light, which is filled with inspiration and instruction, and goes over land and over sea, bearing tidings of joy and love to the remotest branches of the Society and uniting them all in a strong bond of common interest. Mrs. Stevens reviewed the work of the organization along lines of theology, genealogy, literature and home economics, and said that it is only after severe mental discipline, study and prayer that we can obtain success along these lines. She spoke of the beautiful charity work of the organization, stating that other things are more important than ourselves, and if we forget ourselves in service to others our lives will be enriched beyond measure. The three laws of Christ are, love, service, and sacrifice, and our observance of these laws will bring rich reward and supreme happiness. Mrs. Jane W. Herrick, president of the Relief Society in the GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 309 Western States Mission, reported the work in her field of labor. She expressed her delight in looking into the honest faces before her  faces of women who are looking to another life, and contrasted them with the vain masses of women who are wasting their efforts in fighting for lost youth. Mrs. Herrick spoke of the co-operation of the Denver Society with the charity organizations of that city. The twenty-one charity societies there are accomplishing awonderful work, and not a little assistance has been given by the local "Mormon" women. She contrasted the salaried charity workers of other organizations with the unpaid Relief Society workers, and explained a few details of the work. The Denver branch recently raised $84.18 for their own purposes Twins born several weeks after the father had fallen in the battlefield. The mother is Mrs. Elizabeth Hofer, president of the Relief Society, Frankfurt, Germany. and collected $400.00 for the United Charity Organization of Denver. One year ago there was not a Relief Society in the whole Western States Mission, two having been disorganized several years ago. At the present time there are five societies with two more ready for organization. The branches are located in Denver, Alamosa, Omaha, Trinidad and Pueblo. The total membership inthe mission is 127. They report 100 per cent subscription to the Magazine, and 100 per cent membership dues. Glimpses of Relief Society mission work abroad were vividly pictured by Mrs. Rose B. Valentine  until recently president of the Swiss-German Mission. With her husband, Mrs. Valentine entered this mission in 1911. She found that during the last twenty-five years there have been sporadic Relief Society organizations at various places. In 1911 there were only two in actual operation  those in Zurich and Konigsberg. At present there are 310 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. seventeen branches, all of them doing regular work at the outbreak of the war. Mrs. Valentine held the deepest interest of her audience a^ she related pathetic incidents of the war. and she stated that while the routine work of the mission had been interfered with, the hearts of the masses are being turned from the passing tilings of the world to the higher spiritual truths. Four hundred members of the Church, Mrs. Valentine stated, had gone to the war, and their places had heen taken bravely by the women left behind. These soldiers had taken with them to the trenches their missionary work, and the mission paper forwarded them by those at home free of charge had heen read to comrades on the battle-field. She described one church service on the battle-field, conducted by a member of the Church in a little chapel in a forest when his audience, the soldiers at the front, listened with intense interest to the young "Mormon." I'leas for missi inafies had been received from Russia, and Mrs. Valentine entertained the hope that the present freeing of the 200.000,000 people there might mean the opening of the country for the gospel. The speaker explained the outline work taken up by the societies and the deep interest Three Women from Budapest; the of the Swiss and German only Members of the Church there. women in their study. She told <if the humble beginnings of the charity work of these women, of their small contributions of 8 cents and 10 cents a month, of their great joy on receiving from Utah $20 for each Society for relief work. These women are not only carrying on their usual duties in their homes and for the Church, but are working evenings patching and knitting for the aid of those more needy than themselves. The speaker closed by making a strong plea for economy as practiced throughout Europe. She deprecated American waste and extravagance, and declared it to be a reproach on the people of the whole country. Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley, of the General Board, spoke on the importance of testimony bearing, and of our regular testimony GENERAL CONEERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 311 meetings; of the strength that comes to those who, having been helped and sustained through sore trials, sickness and death, are ready and willing to testify of God's blessings and mercies to them. Such testimony gives encouragement and hope to others, and spiritual development and growth to those who glorify God by testifying of his goodness to them. Intellectual and spiritual adjustment was the subject spoken upon by Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry. Mrs. Dusenberry said that many vital things are overlooked and unappreciated in our scheme of education  that the real experiences of life are more valuable educationally than mere mental application, and those who have passed through rich experiences and have made these experiences a part of their development are the truly educated. Jesus said: "Love one another," "Judge not that ye be not judged," "Forgive that ye may are simple be teachings, forgiven."yetThese they embody the noblest thought* of God. The humble beginning of the "great latter-day work by a young boy of 14, who had plenty to do but no chance for education, grows more astonishing as time goes on. It was his spiritual craving that led to his spiritual enlightenment, and his faith L. D. S. Church Headquarters at in the passage: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of Basel, Switzerland. reward. The times are such now that God," which brought the rich we go to bed at night praying to God and wake up to find in the morning some wonderful fulfilment of prophecy made by the boy the world thought so ignorant. Mrs. Dusenberry called attention to the great efforts of the 'Mormon" people along educational lines, with the early beginnings in Utah, when a schoolhouse was among the first buildings erected in the territory. She felt that their struggle for education, together with their rich experiences in temporal and spiriual things had developed them into a sane, a practical and a helpful people. There are. however, with us, as with all the world, some vital things which have been overlooked. The fact of the existence of cripples, blind people, imbeciles and prisons 312 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. containing people who have no purpose in life, prove that a systematic effort should be made all over the world for enlightenment along these lines. The mothers who would bring into the world healthy and normal children must themselves have health and strength, and brain power, the latter of which comes through health and strength. We meet daily on the streets people with set faces, tense bodies, and strained eyes, who are living on a nervous strain, burning the candle at both ends  .people who are being undermined with the poison of fatigue. Mrs. Dusenberry urged the women to take care of their health  for it is the nervous, tired women who become the mothers of deficient children, imbeciles and feeble-minded. The industrial world is studying this problem today. It proclaims that fatigue and nervous exhaustion are the root of ill-health and are responsible for the tragic disease of helplessness. Mrs. Dusenberry also made a plea for more sensible dress among women and girls, and heavily scored the free lorn of the movies in picturing stories that would have no place in the ordinary home. She declared there should be a state censorship over moving pictures. Some 50.000,000 adolescent boys over the country arc in daily attendance at the film theatres, and the dollars spent at such shows if placed side by side would stretch around the world, she said. All the school children of the United States going to the film theatres daily, if marching in single file, would take nineteen days to pass a given point. The picture-show has come to stay, she maintained, and it can be made a factor in education  a factor for good if it can be properly controlled. At the Wednesday afternoon meeting remarks were made by Miss Lillian Cameron, and addresses were given by Counselors Clarissa S. Williams, Julina L. Smith, by President Joseph F. Smith and Bishop Charles W. Nibley. Miss Cameron was introduced as the newest member of the General Board of the Relief Society, her appointment to this position having been made since the last regular Conference. Miss Cameron expressed herself as feeling highly honored in being chosen to serve on the Board and asked for the sympathy and support of the members in her behalf. She spoke especially on the charity work of the organization, stating that all men and women need help and support, and that we should seek to cover up the faults and failings of each other rather than to expose them. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams expressed her appreciation for the splendid addresses that had been given during the sessions of the Conference. She stated that it i^ a wondrous mission to save -"ids and that a mother should begin at her own fireside by setting an example to her own children and to the neighborhood. The mission of the Relief Socictv woman is so broad and so GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 313 elastic that it embraces every good thing in the world, and rich rewards are in store for those faithful ones who have lived lives of devotion to this cause. More than often the woman who has given the greatest service is the woman with the largest family, and because she does one line of work well she is the better prepared to accomplish other labors. Mrs. Williams stated that the Relief Society is always ready to take up new thoughts and new work and that in connection with the other auxiliary organizations, we are now called upon to work for improvement in dress and social work. She urged that all Relief Society women stand as a unit in carrying out the instructions of the First Presidency in this matter, and in following closely the recommendations which have been sent out to the various stakes and wards. The general and stake officers have pledged themeslves to show by their own example their sincerity in this matter, and to use their efforts toward the accomplishment of the purposes of this special mission. The speaker held that the love of dress is an inherent quality in women and it is right that they should love beautiful things provided they are modest and not extravagant, but she felt that the women of America are going dress and fashion crazy. She urged the mothers to teach modesty and the sacredness of the human body to their children, and stated that mothers themselves are often to blame for the immodest dress of their daughters. In the old days Brigham Young called upon the women of the Church to retrench and reform in the matter of dress, and if the people had in all these years lived up to this teaching there would be no need now for President Smith to make this special ^all on the women of today. Mrs. Williams said that no other thing that we have compares with the sacred heritage of children, and that parents should set the right example, should be companions to their boys and girls, if they would have proper influence with them. She asked God's blessings on the mothers in Israel, that they may have faith, courage and enlightenment and that they may be inspired to carry on the work they are from time to time called upon to do. Counselor Julina L. Smith spoke of the work of the old Retrenchment Society, in the days of Brigham Young, of the success of that organization along the lines of improvement in dress. She denounced vigorously the prevailing immodesty in dress, and asked the mothers to carry out the instructions of the First Presidency by working unitedly for reform and improvement. Mrs. Smith also condemned race suicide  speaking of it as one of the great curses of the age. She stated that if girls do not desire to take up the burden of motherhood they should not marry. The lack of wealth is no excuse for limiting the family. She declared that if the women of the Church desire to endure faithful 314 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. to the end they must live up to their knowledge of the things of God. She said we have received the word of the Lord from the head of the Church, and there is only one man on earth at a time qualified to give that authoritative word; women need not run to any man or listen to old woman's dreams and revelations, for the word of the Lord comes only through His authorized servant. President Joseph F. Smith then addressed the congregation afollows: PRESIDENT JOSEPH F. SMITH, I would very much prefer to listen to some of the good sisters talk to the sisters, and I hardly know what the spirit of the meeting calls for, or what necessities there are for me to say anything. Iam very grateful for the privilege of being here with you. I think it is a great privilege for me to live in these last days, and 1 exceedingly enjoy the multiplicity of blessings that the Lord has mercifully bestowed upon me and mine throughout all my life. And vet T cannot say, nor boast, that the experiences of my life have all been just what 1 would have liked them to be: and I have been required, a portion of my time at least, to pass through some of the "narrows" incident to the early settlement in the valleys of the Great Salt Lake. I had the experience in my youth of traversing the plains. I had an experience as a herd boy and as a farmer, a sheep man and a stock grower, on a small scale. We in ver entered into these matters of business extensively, but to a degree necessary to keep the wolf from the door, and to provide for tlu' necessities of a considerable family. 1 have bad experience in all of these things, which 1 appreciate more than T can tell. Jn my travels in later years I have seen conditions wlrch existe 1 among our communities that needed correction and advice; and through the experiences that 1 had gained in early life T was enabled to give advice an 1 counsel many times to our people that I think was beneficial to them. 1 remember on one occasion \ visited one of our new settlements in the northern part of our country, where the valley was high and the warm season of the year was extremely short, and all the heat and moisture that could be had was necessary to produce crops. T witnessed the fact that the whole valley was extremely well watered. This was in the month of August. T believe, and 1 observed that the water in large streams was running through the farms, and the grain was looking green and beautiful. 1 spoke at the Conference meeting that convened, and took the liberty to advise the good people of that valley to turn the water from their crops and give them a chance in dry out a little and to ripen, to gather a little warmth. That was quite a number of years ago. The Bishop, who was a much GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 315 older man than I was, announced after my advice, that "Brother Joseph might know something about preaching the gospel, but he did not know very much about farming." I stayed with a kinsman of mine that evening, and I advised him to go at once and turn the water away from his crops. I said if that is not done they will be green when the frost comes and you will lose your grain. He accepted my counsel, and did as I said, and he was about the only man in the settlement'that had ripened grain that fall, or that harvested good crops at least. So, I gained that experience in my youth. It is a good thing today. But what has that to do with the sisters? Why, bless your soul, I have taken a great deal of pleasure in reading the report of the Relief Society's collection of grain, the storing of grain throughout the country, amounting to millions of pounds, and to hundreds and thousands of bushels of grain. Now frost is still in the ground this the fourth day of April, and in some parts of our country there is a foot of snow yet lying all over the farms. How long it may take the sun to melt this snow and put the ground in condition to be cultivated 1 do not know; but it is possible that we will have an early fall after a very short season this year, and if our grain crop is extremely light it may be that the sisters will not be able to lay up as much grain as they would like to. And I want to say to you that we approve very heartily the idea of having a little breadstuff on hand which, if we do not need ourselves, we can impart to those who do need or will need it in the future. It may be very highly necessary for us to help our neighbors to live, and I think W ought to be careful, industrious, frugal and saving with the materials that the Lord has so bountifully blessed us with hitherto, ?nd we sincerely hope that we will be worthy of his continued blessings. Now, my sisters, as I have expressed my feelings many times, I will again say that I think the Relief Society organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is one of the most important and necessary and blessed organizations that has been devised since the organization of the Church itself. It is a helpful organization, not only in those things that help to make up the material life, but essential in those things which are of more importance really to the immortal soul than those things which perish and which are confine d solely to the necessities of mortal life. I believe that the authority and the influence of this organization should be exerted in behalf of the spiritual welfare and upbuilding of the daughters of Zion and of your sisters throughout all the world, so far as your influence can possibly extend. I think that no women in all the world should be better qualified to live aright than the women who have membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and who have the privilege of being associated with this Woman's Relief Society. 316 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. I think that the best mothers in the world should be found, and d nsistently found, amongthe Latter-day Saints. I believe the best wives in all the world are found among the Latter-day Saints I do not know of any other women in the worl 1 that have the same conception of wifehood and motherhood that the Lattert'ay Saints possess. Our associations are not exclusively intended for this life, for time, as we distinguish it from eternity. We live for time and for eternity. We" form associations and re lations for time and all eternity. Our affections and our desires are found fitted and prepared to endure not only throughout the temporal or, mortal life, but through all eternity. Women in the world do not contemplate such a tiling as this; they do not believe in it. They long for it, no doubt; they hope that such things do or may exist. But who, aside from the Latter-day Saints, have an established religion revealed from God which is i 'tended to so fix these principles in the minds and in the hearts of ihc sons and daughters of ( rod in a manner that will help them to shape their lives now so that they will be prepared to continue the ties they form here in the eternities that are to come? I do not believe that a woman or man who has not the same conception that we have with reference to the object of life and with reference to the future of our lives, can possibly value life as we do. I do not think any one other than those who possess the faith and the doctrines that we do can entertain the same affection for one.?mother that we do. or that will strive so diligently and so earnestl) to make things pleasant for ourselves and for those who are; ssociated with us in life, wih a view that we may continue our desirable relations together in t:me and in all eternity. Who are there besides the Latter-day Saints who contemplate the thought that beyond the grave we will continue in the family organization? the father, the mother, the children recognizing each other in the relations which they owe to each other and in which they stand to each other? this family organization being a unit in the great and perfect organization of God's work, and all destined to continue throughout time and eternity? My sisters, we have something to hope for, something to live for, something to awaken our desire for that which is better and nobler and more exalting. We are living for eternity and not merely for the moment. Death does not part us from one another. if we have entered into sacred relationships with each other by virtue of the authority that God has revealed to the children of men. Our relationships are formed for eternity. We are immortal beings, and we are looking forward to the growth that is to be attained in an exalted life after we have proved ourselves faithful and true to the covenants that we have entered into here, and then we will receive a fulness of joV. I most sincerely hope that the mothers of Israel will guard very zealously GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 317 and very carefully the lives of their daughters and of their sons. 1 would if I had it in my power make it possible for all mothers to have the joy and the unspeakable satisfaction of rearing their sons and their daughters above the reproach of men and above the power of sin. I would that all Latter-day Saints could live so that their example would be so potent in the lives of their families that forever after their children would rise up and call them blessed, and thank God for their relationship to their parents, and honor their parents for their worthy example and for the lives that they gave them, and for the virtues and purity of life that were inculcated in their being. I would like to see our young people honor the aged. I would like to see children honor their parents and respect and love them, and be obedient to their counsel. Who can counsel a child with greater solicitude for the benefit and wellbeing and happiness of that child better than can the father and the mother? No one. No one can love our children just as we love them, if we are possessed of our talents, if we understand our destiny aright and the calling to which we are called as we should understand it. No one can understand our children better than we. No one can have greater solicitude for their happiness than we have. And so the children ought to honor their parents and hearken to their counsel. And a man and woman who have embraced the gospel of Jesus Christ and w ho have begun life together, should be able by their power, example and influence to cause their children to emulate them in lives of virtue, honor and in integrity to the kingdom of God which will redound to their own interest and salvation. No one can advise my children with greater earnestness and solicitude for their happiness and salvation than I can do myself. Nobody has more interest in the welfare of my own children than I have. I cannot be satisfied without them. They are part of me. They are mine; God has given them to me, and I want them to live, and I want them to be honorable. I want them to be humble and submissive to the requirements of the gospel. I want them to do right, and to be right in every particular so that they will be worthy of the distinction that the Lord has given them in being numbered among his covenant people who are choice above all other people, because they have made sacrifice for their own salvation in the truth. Speaking of the fashions of the world, I do not care to say very much on the subject, but I do think that we live in an age the very trend of which is to vice and wickedness. I believe that to a very large extent the fashion? of the day, and especially the fashions of women, have a tendency to evil and not to virtue or modesty, and I deplore that evident fact, for you see it on every hand. I deplore the fact that our young women as well as some of our young men  and I don't know whether I would be justi- 318 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Red in making any distinction between the young men and the young women wih reference to this matter are loath to enter into the relationships of husband and wife until they get to be a great deal older than I was when 1 began life in that way. and considerably older than my wives were when they entered into that relationship with me. Young men want to get homes that are palatial, that are as fine in all their appointments and as modern as anybody else's hefore they will pet married. T think it is a mistake. I think that young men and young women, too, should he willing, even at this day and in the present condition < f things, to enter the sacred bonds of marriage together and fight their way together to success, meet their obstacles and their difficulties, and cleave together and co-operate in their temporal affairs, so that they shall succeed. Then they will learn to love one another better, and will be more united throughout their lives, and the Lord will bless them more abundantly. I regret, I think it is a crying evil, that there should exist a sentiment or a feeling among any members of the Church to curtail the birth of their children. T think that is a crime wherever it occurs, where husband and wife are in possession of health and vigor and are free from impurities that would be entailed upon their posterity. I believe that where people undertake to curtail or prevent the birth of their children that they are going to reap disappointment by and by. I have no hesitancy in saying that T believe this is one of the grea'test crimes of the world today, this evil practice. Xow, I would rather some of the sisters would talk about these things. They can do it better than I can, for they understand them quite as well as T do, although I am a man of some little experience in family matters; the Lord has given me some forty-five children of my own, and I have had the pleasure and joy of rearing most of them to manhood and womanhood, and some of them are still growing in that direction. The mothers of my children who have been the most blessed with a multiplicity of children are the healthiest, strongest and most able bodied women that I know of. They have never.deteriorated through the observance of the principles of life and of natural increase. Now I think I ought to let the sisters talk about these things to you, my sisters; but I am mighty thankful that the mothers of my children have borne me all the way from seven to eleven or twelve children apiece, and they are not sorry for it either. We have not had any too many; in fact, we had to take other people's children, because we did not feel that we had done our duty altogether, and we have raised other children besides our own. and adopted them, and have been for long years grandfathers and grandmothers, and great grandfathers and great grandmothers to their children. Rut T have no occasion to boast GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 319 particularly of that. I am thankful for the blessings of life which we enjoy; and, sisters, let me say to you, that one of the great tlv'ngs is entrustedthat should be looked the care into rearing and the carefullyofbytheir all mothers to whom children, is. the great and glorious truth that the Lord Almighty is doing this work, and not man. God is at the helm. The Lord has laid the foundation of this work through the instrumentality of His servants whom He has raised up for that purpose, and He has never submitted to the dictation of man since the first revelation to the Prophet Joseph Smith to this day. The Lord Almighty has never left the dictation of His work, nor the personal guidance and direction of His work, to any man that has ever stood at the head, or ever will stand at the head of this great work. I believe that those who have stood at the head of this work have invariably and without exception been guided in all their lives in relation to the advancement of the cause of Zion, by the power of God in them and not by their own wisdom and strength. If we could teach our children this; if we could get this principle embodied in their hearts, it would be well. All our children ought to know that it is the Lord's work, that it is not Joseph F. Smith's, it is not President Anthon H. Lund's, nor President Charles W. Penrose's; it is not the work of John Taylor, nor Wilford Woodruff, nor Lorenzo Snow, nor Brigham Young, nor Joseph Smith the Prophet. We honor these men in the positions that they have occupied; we love them for their integrity and their stability in their calling and their faitfulness. We love them for it, and we will always hold them in veneration for the faithfulness and trust that were imposed in them. But when we take into consideration the cause of the work, the purposes of the work, its progress, its increase in the midst of the earth against all the oppositions that have been arrayed against it in the world, we must consider that the work is God's and not man's. If we could only get that into our hearts and into the hearts of our children, they would not be easily led into by-paths, they would not easily be deceived, they would not easily turn away from the right path, because they would realize that they would be turning away from God, not from President Smith or President Young. Some men have apostatized because they got into a little difference with President Young, or with President Taylor, or perhaps with President Smith or whoever it may have been as the head of the Church, or perhaps the Bishop. Some people I have known, have denied the faith, and have gone away from the gospel of Jesus Christ because they got angry at the Bishop, or thought the Bishop was not doing his duty. What foolishness! Can you conceive of anything more nonsensical than that -a man or a woman whose salvation depends upon his or her own fidelity in the cause of Zion turning away from his or her hopes of hap- 320 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. piness because somelxxly cistfails to do right, or they think somebody else fails to do the right thing. I never heard of anything more foolish in my life than that a man should be offended before God and should turn away from the love of God in whom there is no shadow of variableness nor turning, because he gets offended at some of his brethren. Now I have made up my mind long years ago that it doesn't make any difference, or would not make any difference to me, who did right or who did wrong in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. That is not my business. My business is to see to it that 1 do right, that I maintain my standing in t lie Church, that I am devoted to principle myself, and I have no determination, nor wish, nor thought, that is not and may not be seconded by the blessing of the Lord. T know that I could not do anything without His blessing, without His favor, wihout His mercy. I do not expect to be able to stand, any more than I have ever been able to stand, in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints without the help of the Lord, and I do not like to see men nor women get so strong within themselves that they think that they could stand by themselves and of themselves. They cannot do it. We must have the Spirit of the Lord with us, mothers and sisters, in order that we may be enabled to endure the temptation and trials and anxieties of life and stand the test to the end. \<>w T am iofringing upon your time. I am pleased to see so many of us here. 1 certainly feel that my whole soul goes out in love, in appreciation and blessing to the mothers in Israel, those who are associated with this glorious, great organization, the Womens' Relief Society. T feel in my heart to bless you, mothers and sisters, with all my heart and with all the power and right that I possess in the priesthood which is after the order of the Son of I rod. I hold the power and the right to pronounce patriiarchal blessings. I have the right and the authority in the priesthood to bless Israel, and to bless those who are faithful, espe daily; and T feel in my heart to say T bless you. May God bless you, which is greater than all. But if I bless you in the spirit of righteousness and in the Spirit of God and in the true love of the gospel of Jesus Christ, and of the doctrines of Zion, Go I will bless you, too, for He will recognize and acknowledge the blessing that is pronounced by His faithful servants when those blessings are given in the spirit of the gospel and in the love of the people of God. The Lord bless you. Here is our dear Aunt Fm, who has the honor to stand as the President of the board of directors of this great organization in Zion. The Lord has preserved her life till she is past eighty-nine years, still possessing her faculties, her memory and her intellect, and a wonderful amount of physical energy for one of her extreme age. I am proud and thankful that the Lord is so merciful to her and to GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 321 those who are associated with her in this great organization, and I pray that the same blessings may be extended unto all those who are called to presiding positions in the various organizations of the Relief Society throughout the Church in all lands, which may God grant, I humbly pray in the name of Jesus. Amen. At the close of the address of President Smith, Bishop Charles W. Nibley made the following remarks: BISHOP CHARLES W. NIBLEY. I will detain you, my dear sisters, but a moment or two, as the time has already expired for closing your meeting. I endorse heartily the words that have been spoken by our President. They are the words of eternal life. They are given by the same spirit that the Savior enjoyed when Peter said, "Lord, if we turn from thee, There to iswhom salvationshall in we the go?counsel Thou hast the words and advice of eternal of the servantslife." of the Lord who give their best efforts,  the best efforts of their lives  to their labors in the ministry. I am proud of this organization. I speak of it wherever I go among strangers. It is my chief theme, I may say, in connection with the gospel work. I refer to the wonderful service that these sisters, these organizations are giving to the Church, and the wonderful and magnificent examples that they are showing to the world. They are as a city set upon a hill, whose light cannot be hid. Men note it, marvel at it, and thoughtful men say at once, "Well, there is something wonderful in it!" As has been stated, we are living in the most wonderful age of all the history of this world. Things are transpiring, matters are coming to pass, not only with respect to this little handful of people, but with respect to the millions of people in the world. Events are transpiring, in such a way and in such rapid succession, that we see clearly that the Lord is cutting his great work short in righteousness. He will not do that which is unrighteous, but so far as He can cut it short in righteousness, that is, .do it in a righteous, just manner, He will do it. He said He would cut it short in righteousness. Now we see these things are coming to pass. You are custodians, in a way, of some of His purposes and a certain amount of His work. You have in charge, certainly, the greatest work given to any women in all the history of the world. I believe I am perfectly safe in saying that, to you is given the leadership among the women of all the world. Is not that worth something? "Though the great and the wise," as Brother Penrose's song has it. "all thy beauties despise, to the humble and pure thou art dear." The principles that you have are grand, the lives that you are permitted to lead, the blessings that you RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. bestow, the helpfulness that you give, the service that you render to the Church and to the world are magnificent. Your work is Morions. I believe with all my heart and soul that it is approved of the Lord. I feel sure it is. That being so, the blessing of the Lord will follow you. The blessing of the President of the high priesthood of His Church is upon you and upon your work. Is not that a great and splendid thing in every way? I do not see how you could be more blessed. 1 endorse most thoroughly the expression of President Smith in that the Lord can use me or you, every one of us, if we allow Him to do it. and if we will keep humble. lie cannot use the haughty. He cannot use the person who sets himself or herself up to be a great big something above everybody else; but the bumble, the meek, the lowly of heart, the strong also, the resolute and determined  these He can use and He will make them the leading spirits in His Church. He is doing it, and has done it. The Lord is blessing you wonderfully. The work that you have done, the work that you are doing, I say again, is marvelous, it is grand. Continue in it. my dear sisters. Be faithful in it. Be devoted to it. Persevere, have courage, fear not, and God will be with you. You will be blessed more abundantly than ever, and you will be set even upon a higher bill, so to speak, before all the world, and all the world will yet glorify the name of our God because of your good works. Amen. At the close of the afternoon session, Mrs. Susa Young Gates presented the following resolutions on Birth Control and moved their adoption. Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth seconded the motion, and it was enthusiastically carried by the vast assemblage: RESOLUTIONS CONCERNING RIRTII CONTROL OR RACE SUICIDE PRESENTED TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS. IN COOFERECE ASSEMBLED APRILS. 1017, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. ]Vhereas, Many of the men and women, clubs and papers r.f the United States arc uniting in an effort to violate the laws of God and nature by urging the use of the contraceptive devices to prevent child-bearing, thus giving greater license to abandoned men and women, while making of marriage a mockery in the sigh) of God, and JVhereas. This birth-prevention movement has become nation-wide with a "Birth Control League" which publishes a paper GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 323 and which has affiliated with similar organizations in England, Holland, Germany, France, Spain, Belgium, Switzerland, Bohemia, Austria, Portugal, Brazil, Cuba, Sweden, Italy and Africa; with United States branches in Ann Arbor, Michigan; Boston, Massachusetts; Cleveland, Ohio; Denver, Colorado; Detroit. Michigan; Indianapolis, Indiana; Los Angeles, California; Minneapolis, Minnesota; New York: The Birth Control League of New York; The Committee of One Thousand; The Mother's Birth Control League of Brownsville, Brooklyn; The National Birth Control League; The Woman's Committee of One Hundred Painesville, ; Ohio; Paterson, New Jersey; Pittsburg, PennsylvaniPortland, a; Oregon; Rochester, New York; St. Louis, Missouri; St. Paul, Minnesota; The Minnesota State Birth Control League; The Birth Control League of San Francisco; The Seattle Birth Control League; Spokane, Washington; Washington, D. C, The Birth Control League of Washington. Whereas, Clubs such as the New York City Club and similar clubs in other cities are actively engaged in petitioning legislatures to pass laws protecting these nefarious practices by demanding the repeal of anti-birth-control laws, supported in part by the medical and journalistic profession, and Whereas, We desire to manifest our faith in God's laws by a movement for better babies and as many of them as virtuous marriage, and the decrees of a just and merciful Father will permit the parents of this people to bear; Therefore be it Resolved: That we call upon the Latterter-day Saint women everywhere to repel this pernicious doctrine both in private conversation, in public talks, in our own homes and families; and to pass similar resolutions in all our stake and ward organizations, and then to live up to them. Resolved: That we sever all connections with any club, society, or associates who advocate and practice birth-control or race suicide. That we refuse to sustain papers, magazines, publishers and writers who teach this doctrine. Resolved: That we sustain by our voice and vote all laws and law-makers who advocate and maintain laws prohibiting every unnatural and immoral birth-control propaganda. And be it Resolved, in conclusion, that we invite the co-operation and support of the Priesthood quorums and auxiliary organizations of the Church in this effort to maintain our high and holy ideals and principles. OFFICERS' MEETING. Morning Session.  At the opening of the officers' meeting. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams explained that the two officers' meetings had been limited to stake officers because the room 324 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, would not accommodate both stake and ward officers. She recommended that the stake officers pay the strictest attention to all matters of business, taking notes of the imporant items in order that they might take hack to the societies the instructions that were given. After the roll call the annual financial and statistical general report of the Society was read by the General Secretary. Amy Brown Lyman, and was listened to with the closest attention by all officers present. The stake officers all being familiar with their ( wn respective reports listened with the greatest of interest for the final totals of the general report. The report showed the Society to he growing in all departments of its work. The balance net resources at the present time are $606,087.57. and the wheat on hand 215,393^ bushels all property being held in the respective wards. The shrinkage and waste in wheat is less this year than any previous year, due to the fact that better wheat is being stored and better methods of storing are being employed. Comment was made on the fact that wheat had reached a very high market price and satistaction was felt over the priceless value of grain so patiently stored by the Relief Society women. The report showed the present membership of the Society to be 43.894 and the number of branches. 1.191. These figures include the various missions of the Church. The amount paid for charitable purposes for the vear 1916 was $55,162.25. Mrs. Lyman praised the work of the stake secretaries in compiling the stake reports, stating that their work had shown remarkable intelligence and ability on their part. The reports from the following stakes were pronounced perfect: Alpine. Blackfoot. Boise. Box Elder. Cottonwood, No. Weber, Ogden. Salt Lake, Shelley. Snowflake, Young. Central States Mission, European Mission. Hawaiian Mission and Southern States Mission. The following stakes had very slight errors: Bingham. Cache. Granite. Jordan. Liberty. Maricopa. Pioneer, St. Joseph, Sevier, So. Davis, So. Sanpete; Western States Mission, Eastern States Mission, California Mission. The following reports were pronounced as good reports: Alberta, Bear Lake. Deseret. Ensign. ITvrum, Malad, No. Davis, No. Sanpete, Oneida, Panguitch. Raft River, St. George, St. Johns, San Juan, San Luis, Tooele, Union, Yellowstone. Mrs. Lyman reported the following changes in stake organizations: Bannock Stake. President Gwen H. Redford in place of Julia A. Pond, resigned. Bingham Stake, Mayme H. Laird. President, in place of Elvira C. Steele, resigned. Boise Stake, Laura J. Adamson, President, in place of Mary A. Rawson, resigned. GENERAL CONFERENCE OE RELIEF SOCIETY. 325 t Curlew Stake, Rebecca N. Cutler, President, in place of Mary E. Bennett, resigned. No. Weber Stake, Lucy A. Steers, President, in place of Georgina G. Marriott, resigned. Oneida Stake, Nellie P. Head, President, in place of Lousia B. Benson, resigned. Panguitch Stake. Sarah E. Cameron, President, in place of Hannah A. Crosby, resigned. Wasatch stake, Sophia G. Luke, President, in place of Johannah Jensen, resigned. Woodruff Stake, Zina Taggart, President in place of Phoebe Brough, resigned. One new stake has been reported organized during the year the Idaho stake, Sarah M. McClellan, president. Attention was called to the fact that there are now in the Society three Lamanite branches located as follows: Wolf Point, Northwestern States Mission, membership, 35; Catawba, Southern States Mission, membership, 16: Papago Ward, Maricopa Stake, membership, 22. The women in these Societies are especially interested in visiting and caring for the sick. Attention was also called to the report that a Relief Society has been organized in the Tahitian Mission, with a membership of 84. The remainder of the morning session was turned over to a dicussion of Relief Society problems. The discussion was led by Counselor Clarissa S. Williams and participated in by the whole body of officers. Afternoon Session. At the afternoon session remarks were made by Mrs. Susa Young Gates, Mrs. Lucy May Green, Mrs. Emily S. Richards and Mrs. Janette A. Hyde. Mrs. Gates gave a brief report of the Genealogical work and made some suggestions for the future. She felt gratified with the results of the Society in their work on living record sheets, index cards, and in the numerous excursions to the temple. The annual report shows that 26,201 days have been spent in temple work, an increase of 9,312 over the number of days reported for last year. Mrs. Gates regretted that it had been impossible to furnish the books that were suggested at the beginning of the year, and because of the great disappointment in this matter the Genealogical Society of Utah decided to compile a book on surnames for the use of all organizations interested in Genealogical research. Material for this book is now ready for the printers, and the book will be out in time for our fall work. The speaker stated that  to all genealogical questions in the wards should be referred the stake president. Mrs. Emily S. Richards, who had just returned from an 326 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. excutive session of the National Woman's Suffrage Association, where she went as a -delegate from the Utah Suffrage Association, reported that preparedness was the watch ward throughout the women's organization of the East. This meeting which she had just attended was called to devise some plan of assistance to the Nation during the present war crisis. Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt, president of the association, said it is not enough in the face of the present situation for women to make mere protestations of loyalty to the Government, but that they should devise some plan of assisting which would be definite in scope and practical in character and which the women should guarantee to perform. Practically the whole country was represented at that meeting, and the women assembled pledged themselves to wage a campaign for increasing the food supply by encouraging thrift and economy and by the elimination of waste. Mrs. Richards reported that one thousand women have enrolled themselves in a national service school at Washington, D. C, for a course of five weeks' encampment, during which time they will live under military discipline and receive instructions from men  commissioned officers of the Army and Navy. The uniform for the women taking this course is an olive drab coat and skirt, one army blouse, olive necktie, high laced tan boots and campaign hat and olive cord. Personal baggage is limited to one suit case and a hand bag. Jewelry and vanity boxes are absolutely barred. Stringent health regulations are to be observed, and no one will be admitted without a health certificate showing that the applicant can endure camp routine. While it is not intended to place women aboard ships they may be utilized for shore duty as stenographers, book-keepers, general clerks, etc., and it is felt that the discipline and training received in this camp will make them more efficient for service. Mrs. Richards stated that in connection with the National Council, to which the Relief Society belongs, the Suffrage Association expects to register the powers and resources of the women of the organization. Mrs. Lucy May Green, Chorister of the Granite stake Relief Society choir read a paper on "Music in the Relief Society." This paper contained many practical hints and suggestions. We give the following excerpts: "In the brief glimpses given us in the scriptures of our preexistent state, we learn that music has formed a part of the worship of God since before the dawn of creation. The first account we have on record is 'when the foundations of the earth were laid, when the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy.' Music is the only art which is mentioned GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 327 in the scriptures as a part of heaven itself. We read of the music of the angels, also of the song of the redeemed, of the new song which will be sung by them, songs of everlasting joy. In Section 84 of the Doctrine and Covenants, we have the words given of a beautiful anthem which will be sung by the Saints at the redemption of Zion. While the Israelites were in captivity in Babylon, they were often required, by the Chaldeans, to 'sing the songs of Zion.' The Prophet Joseph dearly loved music, and made it a part of all the gathering s of this Church. His successors in office have encouraged 'this art, and the fame of our great organ and Tabernacle Choir has gone abroad throughout the world. The Lord set the seal of his divine approval on the song of praise when he commanded that Emma Smith should make a selection of sacred hymns to be used in the Church. "One of the objects of the organization of the Relief Society was for women to gain knowledge and to develop along higher lines. We have progressed rapidly in many directions: in charitable work, in storing wheat, in the fields of home nursing, in theology, literature, "and art. Until recent years, however, we have paid very little attention to music in this Society. We have been quite content to sing without instrumental support, often without a leader, and still more often without books. The time has come when we should wake up musically and do our part in this department of the service of the Lord. It is an inspiration and will lift the soul above the trials of life and bring comfort and hope. Hand in hand with the preaching of the gospel should be the music of the gospel. The success of the great evangelist Moody was largely due to the sweet singing of his wonderful musical companion, Ira D. Sankey. "The hymn sung by John Taylor, 'A Poor Wayfaring Man of Grief,' gave the Prophet Joseph the courage and strength to bear the last hours in Carthage Jail, and the song 'Come, Come, Ye Saints' cheered the Pioneers on their weary march across the plains. "Let us make music an important part of our gatherings. First in every stake and ward we should choose a good chorister and organist. Wherever it is possible to do so, stake and ward choirs should be organized. Relief Society choirs should lead the singing in all of our Relief Society gatherings. It would halfa hour be good" occasionally practice would thing if the to presidents allow with the Society, that new the chorister hymns and songs might be learned. This might be possible on I tome Economics day. "Membership in stake Relief Society choirs should consist of all ward choristers, assistants, organists and local choir members. There are many who used to sing in girlhood days who 328 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. would be glad to sing again; and others, especially those from foreign lands, deem it a privilege to take an active part in the worship of praise. In stakes where the wards are scattered it night be advisable to meet before the regular monthly officers' meetinng. Other practices might be announced aside from the regular monthly practice. It is not wise to confine  your choir to all young people; there are many good voices among the elderly women, who with a little experience will do really good work. "A competent organist is a necessity, and where it is possible to use the piano as well as the organ, so much the better. Be sure and have plenty of alto. It is rarely possible to sing four part music owing to the inability of getting good second sopranos, and second altos but there are many beautiful duets and trios which can be sung. Have plenty of congregational singing; learn some of the hymns that are rarely sung, and sing them often. You will find many of them in the Sunday School Song Book, The Psalmody, and some of our earlier anthem books, and there are many beautiful songs in Parks' Concert Quartetts. New hymns often appear in our various Church magazines. "Tn choosing soloists and members of quartets, use judgment (1 change your singers at times: have no favorites. The secret of success is work. Set your standard as high as possible, but remember that what a Relief Society choir may lack in musical ability, may be more than made up in love of the work, in faithfulness and willing service. "In conclusion let me express the hope that sometime soon the General Board will publish for us a Relief Society song book, a collection of songs, hymns, duets, trios and choruses set to music especially arranged for women's voices. Until that t:me arrives. let us choose the best music available, and use all that expresses the spirit and genius of the Relief Society work." Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, business manager of the Relief Society Magazine, gave some instructions to officers and Magazine agents with regard to proper methods of carrying on business in connection with the General Office. Mrs. Hyde made the following suggestions: 1. All Magazine agents should use for subscriptions the proper printed forms that are supplied by the General Office. All lists sent in by agents are filed for future reference, and when names come in on papers of all shapes and sizes great inconvenience is encountered in looking up and checking names. All lists should contain the date when sent. 2. Agents should keep duplicate copies of all lists sent to the General Office so that when questions arise as to names and addresses the agent may refer to her own copy. Agents should give individual receipts to subscribers, using the receipt books GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 329 furnished by the General Office. All receipts should contain the date when issued. 3. All names should be written plainly with addresses complete. In many instances Magazines have been lost because the box number or the R. F. D. has been left off by agents in sending in addresses, and the mistake is not discovered until several Magazines have miscarried. 4. All Magazine letters and subscription lists should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, except articles and material for the editor, and not to any individual. All money orders and checks sent in for Magazine subscriptions should be made payable to the Relief Society Magazine, and not to any individual. 5. Nothing but Magazine orders and letters pertaining to Magazine work should come to the Relief Society Magazine. All other communications should be addressed to the General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman. Mrs. Hyde expressed her great interest in the business end (if the Magazine work, and asked for the co-operation of all Magazine agents in working for greater efficiency along business lines. She took the opportunity to thank all the stake officers present for their hearty support of the Magazine which has been greatly appreciated in the General Office. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams reported that the National Council of Women has recently held an executive session in Washington. D. C. to consider the advisability of offering the help of the women of the Council to the Government in connection with the war. She stated that Miss Margaret Edward, President of the Relief Society in the Eastern States Mission, had represented at this meeting very where ably it the was General decided Board of Relief to register Society tabulate the powers and resources of the women of all organizations belonging to the Council. Mrs. Williams further explained that the Relief Society itself felt that a tabulation of the powers and resources of the women of the organization would be excellent information  for our own files, and to this end letters on this subject with proper blank forms will soon be sent to all stake presidents with instructions as to the information  to be tabulated. The Baby Week campaign was explained by the speaker. She stated that the General Boards of the auxiliary organizations of the Church, in connection with other organizations are doing what they can to further the work of saving the babies. Baby Week this year has been set for May 1st to May 6th. The purpose of the campaign in general is educational, the desire being to give the parents of the community the opportunity of learning the facts with regard to the care of their babies and the need of constant effort and permanent work for their welfare and protection. Stake officers were instructed to ask their ward officers to join 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. with other auxiliary organizations to co-operate in making plans for this week. It is recommended that in arranging for meetings the local officers should secure capable and enthusiastic speakers who will be able to give intelligent and authentic advice with regard to the care of children. Mrs. Williams said that letters on this subject would be sent out immediately to stake presidents. Mrs. Williams reported a very successful year for the Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing. Seven students from the Obstetrics class took the State Medical Board examination and all passed successfully and will receive certificates from the Utah Medical Board which will entitle them to practice Obstetrics in Utah. The School of Obstetrics and Nursing for next year will open in September. 1017, to continue for eight months. It was explained that an effort will be made during the next year to give the students in this school opportunity for some practical experience in nursing by having each one spend a few hours a week in the sink room. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman announced that circulars on Dress and Dancing would be sent to all the women officers in the Church in a very short time, that those going to stake officers would be sent to stake presidents, an I those going to ward officers would be sent through the Presiding Bishop's Office to the ward bishops for delivery to ward officers. Mrs. Lyman announced that the Relief Society stake Conferences which are held in connection with the quarterly Conferences would begin in May and continue throughout May. June and July. Such Conferences as are held independent of stake Conferences, (in the near-by stakes) would be held in November. She stated that Conference dates with suggestive programs would be mailed out immediately to stake presidents. Mrs. W. W. Riter was given a few minutes to speak upon the work of the Red Cross. She urged all members to assist the movement by joining the Sorely, and explained that the following day had been set apart by the Re 1 Cross for soliciting memberships on the street. President Emmelinc B. Wells made a few closing remarks asking Cod's blessing on the work of the Relief Society, that all the members might be prospered in the work which they were railed to do. and that if any should be called to the other side before another Conference, they would die in the Lord. After the benediction by Mrs. Elizabeth C. Wilcox, the Conference was adjourned for six months. The General "Board of the Relief Society is very grateful for the splendid services of the very capable ushers from the Liberty stake who were instrumental in making everybody comfortable, and in handling the large crowds so efficiently. The Disease Germ in Utah. Dr. Ellen W. Osier had spent an hour lecturing to our Relief Society on "disease germs." Indeed, she had explained every phase of the subject so vividly that every woman in the room felt a creepy sensation up and down her spinal column. We now know better than to use cream with our breakfast cereals, unless we are certain the milk has been placed on the stove and heated to 60 degrees C. for twenty minutes before setting away. In fact we feel that milk, cream and butter should henceforth be cancelled from our menus. It seems hard, however, to discard good, cool, fresh water, and use only the sickly stuff previously boiled, but, if we are to live to the age of a tree, we know we shall be obliged to do so. We had learned that it is positively unsafe to breathe the air with any other person in the room. To tell the truth, we were all somewhat anxious to get out of meeting, for, we feared even then we were inhaling millions of tiny bugs that would multiply and increase in our internal mechanisms and cut short our mortal careers. You should have seen the look of terror in Myra Fehringer's eyes, and how she drew the shawl right over her baby's face when old Sister Bently gave an influential sneeze. Well, Dr. Osier finished her enlightening discourse, excused herself on the plea of another appointment and rustled out. When the door had closed on her retreating figure. Aunt Matilda Peterson rose slowly to her feet. "Sisters." she said. "I am happy to say that I arrived in Utah before the disease germ. That is why, I suppose, I have enjoyed more than seventy years of good health. I have been permitted to bring into this world eleven robust sons and daughters, all of whom also arrived in Utah before the deadly disease germ. Consequently they have all had need of appendixes and tonsils and have never found it necessary to dispense with either. "As you know, I was one of the number who walked across the plains to Utah and helped draw a handcart most of the way. in which was stored our clothing, bedding and eatables. This miscellaneous freight would now he considered unsairtary, but being before the disease germ (lay. we suffered no harm. "I was young in Utah when girls could chew each other's gum with no premonition of ('anger. It was customary to borrow or loan a delectable chew until recess, in my school days; but remember, there were then no disease germs in these beautiful mountain vales. "But gum as well as flour was scarce in those days. 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. "Our lecture this afternoon has brought to my mind an incident I should like to relate. "Among the articles of wearing apparel stored away m one of the handcarts our family drew across the plains, was a pair of rubbers belonging to myself. "These proved quite a luxury, the winter following our arrival in Utah, for they were the only pair in the settlement in which we lived. "One stormy morning I wore them to school. On entering the building I took them off and placed them near the door. At the noon intermission, when I went to get my rubbers, one was missing. I looked all around but was unable to find it and so wore only one rubber home to dinner. "Of course, my mother felt somewhat annoyed at my loss as mothers usually do, especially under our circumstances. But I promised to make a thorough search through the afternoon and hurriedly ate my dinner and rushed back to school. "T looked through our little schoolroom inside and out. but found no trace of the missing rubber. "At length the noon bell summoned us all to our places again was obliged to relinquish the search. Through the afternoon I noticed all the boys and girls around me chewing something that had the appearance of gum; had I been less miserable over my loss, I might have observed the merry side-glances being cast in my direction. from. "At recess I enquired where the supply of gum had come "A big, awkward fellow, who was in the habit of showing me extra courtesies, answered my question by slipping his hand into his pocket and drawing out a piece of rubber, which he generously offered to me. "It flashed across mv mind in a moment, my schoolmates were chewing my rubber! "Yes. it was true! My precious rubber had been cut in pieces and was now serving my companions for gum. "I have been thinking this afternoon, had this occurred in this enlightened age. all the lads and lasses would certainly have suffered from some fatal epidemic. "But, fortunately it happened before the arrival of the disease from in Utah, and no one suffered any inconvenience." MOTTOES ADOPTED BY THE CORRELATION COMMITTEE. 1. Modesty in Dress and Dancing. 2. Thrift and Economy for Home and Country. 3. Spirituality in Teaching. June Entertainment. By Morag. BEAUTIFUL JUNE. SUNSHINY JUNE. "The earth and the air are in perfect attune Singing to welcome thee, beautiful June." June is the month of brides, roses, strawberries, and many other beautiful things, and one of the prettiest functions imaginable isa rose luncheon and musical. Decorate the rooms with the lovely flowers, and for a table centerpiece use a basket of roses, with a long stemmed rose with name card attached at each place. The lunch menu may consist of: Spring salad Creamed chicken in pastry shells Green peas New potatoes Tiny biscuits Strawberries and cream with lady fingers, macaroons or wafers. Have a program of "rose" music. Some songs may be "My Love is Like a Red, Red Rose," "My Wild Irish Rose," "Garden of Roses," "Roses and Lilies," "Last Rose of Summer," "My Rosary," "To a Wild Rose," etc. A ROSE GAME. Prepare a list for each rolling guest. Answers are names of roses. 1. Never seen on a stone. 9. AA vegetable. 8. country. 2. 10. 3. Blooms on a girl's cheek. 11. One American's honor. 4. An aspiring rose. 12. A spicy rose. A wanderer. A beautiful linen. r 13. 6. A beverage. 14. A perfume. Like a popular book. A brave general. 7. What you would do if you 15. An Irish Rose. burned yourself. ANSWERS. 8. 1. Moss. Cabbage. 2 Mar1en Blush. 9. La France. 4. Climbing. in. American Cinnamon. Beauty. 3. ll. Rambler. 5. Tea. t>. 12. Damask. Fed. 13. Musk. 7. Yellow (Yell oh). Marechal Neil. 14. Killarney. 15. 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. FLAG DAY. One of our newer holidays occurs on June 14, and is celebrated as Flag Day. On this day Old Glory is displayed on all public buildings and schools, and in many places patriotic exercises are held. The hostess who entertains on this occasion can use a red, white and blue color scheme with our beloved stars and stripes in evidence among the decorations. Flower combinations are red. white and blue sweet peas or scarlet geraniums, with blue and white larkspur. It is a good time to hold a children's party. It may be held on a flag decorated porch, or on the lawn. Make the children realize what the flag means to them. Let some one tell the story of Betsy Ross and the first American Flag, and of Barbara Fritchie. A good story to relate is 'The Man Without a Country," by Edward Everett Hale. Have a program of patriotic songs, children love to sing them. Have a flag race. This is like the old potato race, using flags instead of potatoes. The prize may be a silk flag to be hung in the room of the winner. Serve ice cream with a flag stuck in the center and small cakes. Here is the oath or pledge of allegiance used in the public schools. Stand at salute and repeat: "I pledge allegiance to the flag and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation indivisible  with liberty and justice for all." In this month the great outdoor beckons us, and lawn parties, picnics, auto rides, canyon and lake trips are in order. Remember to have these affairs properly chaperoned, or, better still, go in family groups. For a change try a sunrise party, meet at five a. ni., watch the sunrise, listen to the song of the early birds, then serve a dainty breakfast on the screened porch. For the Home Evening there are two special events which may be celebrated. One occurs on June 1st when the great leader of modern Israel. Brigham Young, was born. An evening might be spent in considering his wonderful life and achievements. On June 27 the anniversary of the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph and his brother Ilyrum. On this evening a program devoted to the lives and labors of these great leaders may be arranged. Pin Money Suggestions. By Morag. A woman who wishes to make money at home should first consider her aptitude for certain lines of work, her strength, the amount of time she can spare from her home duties, also her surroundings and the needs and purses of her neighbors. In these days, when living expenses are so high, many of our women would gladly earn a little pin money and supplement the family income or make possible a course of study, a much desired trip, or.do some of the many little things which bring so much pleasure into our daily lives. To the woman who lives in the city or large town there are many ways of adding to the family expense fund. Home cooking always pays and the woman who likes to cook has the path to success open before her. Among the things which would find a ready market are whole wheat bread, nut brown bread, raisin bread, doughnuts, cakes of various kinds, potato chips, orange marmalade, and many others. If you live near a factory or large office building, fifteen and twenty-five cent lunches might be served. A really good cook can usually find a ready market for cooking, if she will let it be known that it is for sale. Home made candy and confectionery are also in demand. Many women who are fond of fancy work do not care for plain sewing, and a woman with a genius for plain sewing could earn a good living by making tailored shirt waists, large aprons, rompers for children and plain dresses and aprons for school girls, also middy waists. Materials must be purchased wholesale and several garments cut at one time. A nice little sum may be earned in making complete infants  layettes. Making sunbonnets, and boudoir and sweeping caps is another practical suggestion. If you own a good vacuum cleaner you can rent it to your neighbors at so much per day. Shopping on commission for one's friends in the country might bring in a little. You can take advantage of all special sales, etc. A holiday sale of Christmas presents would be successful if you make practical things, such as dainty corset covers, kimonas, bags of various kinds, bureau scarfs and trimmings, also handkerchiefs. Invite your friends, serve chocolate and small cakes; arrange your things to the best possible advantage and you will find a ready sale. The women of rural communities have 336 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. many opportunities for earning some pin money. Some farm women make a good living by supplying their city friends with vegetables, fruit, and eggs sent by parcel post. Dried fruit and corn is in great demand, also home made jams, jellies, and pickles. There is also quite a demand in early spring for day old chicks; many people in town prefer to buy them that way, and if you are successful in running an incubator and are careful in packing, and shipping the chicks you can earn a reasonable profit. If you are the fortunate owner of a small greenhouse or a few good hotbeds, raise tomato, cabbage and celery plants, also some flowers such as stocks, asters, verbenas, snapdragons, and others. Among the cut flowers which find a quick sale, are peonies and Iris (for Decoration day), asters, gladioli, and sweet peas. These should all be picked overnight and kept in water before they are sold or packed for shipment. If you are successful in raising house plants you might root cuttings of geranium, begonia and others in small pots in the late fall. These will sell readily in the early spring for fifteen cents each. Other choice varieties may be raised from seed as asparagus, plumose, cineraria, coleus and primroses. If you have a good warm cellar start a number of bulbs, hyacinths, narcissus, Easter lilies, tulips and daffodils. These are planted during October and November and are kept in the cellar from eight to twelve weeks, then brought gradually to the light. They will find a ready sale in early spring. A large number of dry bulbs may be sold in early fall among your friends and a small profit made. Christmas greens find a good market in the city and these may be gathered and kept for some weeks beforehand. There are many other ways of earning money on the farm which will readily suggest themselves, as raising chickens, squabs, turkeys, ducks and geese as well as home cured meat and honey. We all like to earn and spend our own money, and as we need so much extra at some times of the year when our Magazine and Journal subscriptions fall due, with Christmas coming and lots of extra things to buy, so the writer hopes that among these suggestions you may find one which will prove a benefit to you, and wishes you all success in whatever you undertake. BIBLE LESSONS EOR JULY. "I will mediate in thy precepts. I will not forget thy word." For the thirty-one days read: Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 58-98. Evolution of the American Flag By A. B. L. The idea of a national flag is, by no means, a modern one. The primitive peoples of the earth all had symbols or emblems of some sort, which they chose for sentimental reasons, and which they raised aloft in time of festivity, and in times of war. Each tribe had its own emblem, just as each nation of today has its own flag; and before the manufacture of cloth, these standards consisted of carved wooden objects attached to poles or staves. America was colonized under several flags. Each group of settlers used the flag of its mother country, and from the various colonies might have been seen, waving in the breeze, the English, Swedish, Dutch and Spanish flags, respectively. The majority of the early settlers of America were English, and for many years, the English flag (a red flag with the union jack in the corner) was used by them. However, as the colonists grew apart from the mother country, modifications of the English flag appeared here and there, and when the Stamp Act was passed by the English government, in 1765, there was a general outbreak of special flags. These special flags were patterned after the British flag. They were red and white in color, and most of them contained the cross of St. George, but special devices or features were added to them. The New England colonists used a pine tree, the South ern colonists a rattle snake, and Rhode Island, an anchor. Many of the flags contained mottoes expressing the indignation of the colonists. There was no attempt in the very beginning of the Revolutionary war to adopt a uniform flag, and these various devices were used; but after a few months of the war, it was decided that a uniform flag was not only desirable, but was also necessary. In December, 1775, a committee was appointed, with Benjamin Franklin as chairman, to look after several matters pertaining to the war, among which was the consideration of the adoption of a uniform flag. In the report from this committee, no mention was made of the flag, but there must have been some recommendation with regard to it, for in January, 1776, General Washington hoisted over his headquarters, in Cambridge, the new continental flag. This new flag was very much like the British ensign; it had the union jack in the corner, but instead of the solid red of the English flag, red and white stripes were used, ^he thirteen stripes represented the thirteen colonies, but the union jack recognized the sovereignty of England. 118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The origin of the stripes is not agreed upon  there arc two theories: First, that the idea was borrowed from the Dutch flag; second, that it was taken from the coat of arms of the Washington family! The continental flag was used about one and one half years. In June, 1770. six months alter the Continental flag was first used, it decided that in view of the impending Declaration of Independence, a change should be made in the flag. The resolution which was passed, making the change.possible, was as follows: Resolved: That the flag of the United States be thirteen stripes, alternated red and white, that the union be thirteen stars ?white, in a blue field, representing the new constellation. In June. 1777. this flag was adopted by the Continental congress. The credit of making the first American flag, combining the Stars and stripes, is uniformly given to Mrs. Betsey Ros. of Philadelphia. Mrs. Ross was a young widow, whose husband had been killed in an accidental explosion of military stores. Shewas a fine seamstress, and when it was learned by her friends that she had decided to take up sewing as a vocation, she was eagerly sought after by those who desired to have expert needle work done. Mrs. Ross sewed for the Washington family, and for George Washington, personally, making his fine shirts and embroidered ruffles. It was, therefore, only natural that when General Washington was looking for someone to put together the first flag, he should turn to Betsey Ross. According to the story, General Washington rode up to Mrs. Ross's modest little house, on horseback, and presented to her a rough drawing of the flag, which he explained to her. Mrs. Ross objected to the six pointed star in the design, and suggested that it be changed to five pointed star. She folded up a piece of paper, and with a single cl:p of her scissors, produced a perfect five pointed star. Her suggestion was accepted, and the sketch was redrawn by Washington.  Mrs. Ross was employed a number of years making flags for the government, and after her death, her daughter continued in the business. The little house in Philadelphia, where the first flag was made, has been purchased by an association known as the Betsey Ross Memorial Association. Funds were raised for the purpose by soliciting from donors  only ten cents each. Subscriptions came in from every state in the Union, and from many foreign countries. The building has been turned over to the Federal Government, as a historical shrine, and all visitors to Philadelphia make it a point to call at this very interesting house, and to sit EVOLUTION OF THE AMERICAN FLAG, 339 in the dingy back room where it is supposed that Betsey Ross sat while doing this piece of very important work. The stars in the first flag were placed in a circle, but as the number of states increased, they were placed in rows. At the present time, there are six rows of stars, with eight in each row  forty-eight in all, to represent the forty-eight states of our great republic. Thus, we see that the American flag of today is a growth rather than a creation. In a toast on the American flag, given by George Washington, at the time of its adoption, he said: "We take the stars from Heaven, the red from our Mother Country, separating it by white stripes, thus showing that we have separated from her, and the white Salute stripes-to shall go down to posterity, representing liberty." the Flag: / pledge my allegiance to the Hag and lo the Republic for which it stands  one Nation indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. COMMON SENSE. Longfellow could take a worthless piece of paper, write a poem on it and make it worth sixty-five dollars  that's genius. There are some men who could write a few words on a piece of paper and make it worth eight million dollars  that's capital. The United States can take an ounce and a quarter of gold and can make it worthy twenty dollars  that's money. A mechanic can take material worth five dollars, and make it into watch-springs worth one thousand dollars  that's skill. There is a man in Boston who can take a fifty-cent piece of canvas, paint a picture on it and make it worth one thousand dollars that's art. A tinsmith can take an article worth seventy-five cents and sell it for one dollar  that's business. A woman could purchase a hat for seventy-five cents, but prefers one worth twenty-seven dollars  that's foolishness. A ditch-digger handles several tons of earth for one dollar and fifty The cents authority  that's of this labor. a check for nine million dollars can write but it wouldn't be worth a dime  that's rough. There are people who will tell you that other magazines are as good as this  that's nerve. You can take a sheet of paper, sign your name and send it to us for a subscription  that's common sense, Home Science Department. By Janette A. Hyde. UP-TO-DATE COOKERY. Women have been chained so long to kitchen stoves with ball attachment to the pantry and dining room, half a mile distant, that habit and tradition have made slaves of them in very deed to cooking and cleaning; but here and there a woman rises up in meeting and asks science and discovery to free her from her age-long shackles. The answer has been a long while in coming, but it is arriving on the electric train. With a view of ascertaining the availability and desirability of the new methods of cookery now devised by both the electric-companies and the gas companies of this region, the editor and business manager of the Magazine agreed to test the new electric stove with a fireless cooker oven attachment, and the gas stove also with a fireless cooker attachment, in their own homes. Moreover, the Home Science department arranged demonstrations al the late Conference where the representatives of this Society might see for themselves what could be done when men set their wits to work for women. The result was highly satisfactory in both cases. THE ELECTRIC STOVE. The editor of the Magazine replaced an excellent gas stove for an electric stove, about two months ago. She had used for over eight years the fireless cooker with the iron discs for supplementary cooking, and found it very excellent indeed; only the discs had always to be heated up; so that the electric stove which carried a fireless cooker made an instant appeal to her. With a sincere desire to persuade all women that their time and strength are financial assets in the business of home making, the editor has undertaken many tests with her new electric stove. She reports. 1. Extreme simplicity of arrangement. 2. Cleanliness. Frying. Roiling. Baking. Roasting. 3. Fireless Cooker Oven. 4. The cost. Simplicity.  The ease with which the switch is turned and the heat generated does away even with the slight labor of striking HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 341 a match. All of the surface burners which are used for boiling or frying have three heat degrees: hot, medium and low heats. The central disc which has extra coils, fries meat perfectly indeed too rapidly, unless watched very carefully. A turn of the switch, however, reduces the heat. The clock attachment for the ovens is most admirable in its simplicity. Meat, bread, puddings and cereals can be set in the oven hours before needed, and the clock set at the hour when the food is to begin cooking. The clock starts the oven to heating at the proper time and then when the heat of the oven has reached a certain point it is at once turned off automatically and the heat is retained in the oven for hours, through the fireless cooker principle. Cleanliness.  The cleanliness of the stove is beyond ELECTRIC STOVE, WITH FIRELESS COOKER OVEN. reproach,  no soot, grease nor black accumulations; sauce pans are as clean outside as inside after two months' use; no soot accumulates on the walls, and the stove is always clean, unless food is spilled over it. Frying.  Frying may be done rapidly either in the oven or on top of the stove. Fish and griddle-cakes which require a lower temperature can be cooked with the medium heat without burning at all. Boiling.  You can boil rapidly, or stew, or keep things just nicely hot on these upper discs. A steam cooker can be placed on the disc and the water kept at boiling point all day without watching or replenishing through regulation of the switch. Baking and Roasting.  The baking oven is as near perfect 342 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. as human ingenuity can devise. A thermometer regulates the exact heat to be attained for the baking of bread or the baking of roast meat or the baking of biscuits, and if directions are followed each article comes out absolutely perfect as to crust and quality. Meat baked in this way loses none of its juice and flavor and the crisp, brown crust formed over the meat is attractive to the eye and delicious to the taste. So long does the oven retain heat that you can roast your meat and potatoes, then put in your bread; with one extra degree of heat added your bread will bake and when that comes out you can put in cereal with the same heat which will be found cooked in the morning and still warm. The Fireless Cooker Oven.  Some of the stoves  the editor's in particular  have small ovens which are designed for slow boiling. All kinds of vegetables can be cooked perfectly in these ovens. Meat can be stewed, and dried fruit is cooked to a mellow consistency without breaking the fruit or loosing the flavor. The Cost.  Special wires are put into the house for the stove and to this can be attached the flatiron and toaster and thus the cost of lighting the house and cooking is considerably less than lighting the bouse and cooking with gas. Of course, in most )f ELECTRIC HEATER AND QUICK OVENS. HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 343 homes cooking is done on a range which heats the water jacket and warms the kitchen, but with a small stove which can be purchased for about $12 to heat the water jacket and warm the kitchen, the electric stove can be used perfectly all winter long, for the little kitchen stove will do most of the boiling and the electric stove can be set up in the pantry, thus making a kitchenette and then turn the dreaded kitchen into the family sitting room. All in all, the electric stove is an absolute necessity to the woman who would save time and strength to spend in acquiring knowledge, working in the temple, and in preparing herself for larger usefulness at home and abroad. I have found in the newly constructed gas cooker, the very thing for which I have been searching for the past ten years  namely, a device self-heated, without the ordeal of creating some kind of extra heat for making ready the discs used in the ordinary fireless cooker. Every one knows the value of a good gas stove. The new stove has a fireless cooker oven and it is of this feature that I speak. GAS BROILER AND QUICK OVEN. The oven is one of the most economical labor saving devices used in the kitchen, today. The Gas Fireless Oven, with its asbestos and mineral wool-lined walls covered with enameled metal surface is practically rust proof as well as holding the heat for from 9 to 15 hours, sufficiently long to cook the toughest meat, and render it delicious and tender. The range is beautifully constructed and very easy to keep dean, and is as ornamental as it is useful. On account of the thickness of the walls and the lining, it may require a greater amount of time for heating than the thin sheet metal, old style gas 344 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. stoves, but it also has the great advantage of holding the heat to almost a triple amount of time that the thinner grades of ranges do. Time-Saver.  The greatest advantage to be gained by the use of the Gas Fireless Cooker is the time, as well as the extra heat saved in the preparation of a meal. For instance, if you wish to bake bread at the noon hour, while getting your lunch, it may he placed in the oven with the meat, vegetables, pudding or any GAS STOVE WITH FIRELESS II RAT-HOLDER, WITH QUICK OVEN. desert desired for the noon meal, and all is cooked with the same beat that would be required to bake the bread or cook any one article of food which is used in the ordinary lunch course. Heat Conserved.  The heat is turned on and left to reach the point of about 450 degrees, which is indicated on the oven by a heat dial on the outside. The food, having been prepared, is placed in the oven; at the same time, the heat is turned off, and the food is left to cook itself without burning or being spoiled in any way. It is so simple to operate that after a child has been instructed how to use this Fireless Cooker, she can do so without the least bit of danger or fear. On one occasion, I baked five loaves of bread, a nice pan of potato au gratin, a bread pudding, and creamed cabbage all with the same heat. After the gas was turned off, T went down town HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 345 and stayed for four hours, and returned home to find everything perfectly cooked  not over-cooked  and steaming hot  just ready to be served. It seems to me that the great problem of the house-wife has been solved; she can go and do her errands, do her shopping, and attend to Relief Society meeting, while her meal cooks perfectly at home,' and she can feel upon her arrival, just about meal time, that all of the hungry mouths waiting at home to be fed can be just as well taken care of and supplied with properly cooked food, as if she had been there stirring, mixing, shoveling coal, and watching over things, as must be done with the ordinary coal stove or range. I hope the day will come, when the women of our Church and nation will seize the opportunity to use the new inventions and appliances, such as electric and gas stoves and irons, that they may have more time for educational and cultural purposes. Wherever there is gas in a community, we trust that the sisters will seize the opportunity to have the same installed in their homes, that they may receive the benefit of this perfect heat and light system. After all, it serves another purpose, it is much cleaner and not so expensive as a coal range. We find it so in our locality here in Salt Lake City. Hence, we recommend a thorough investigation, as well as a liberal trial of this quicker, cleaner, cheaper heat and light fuel. RECIPES. DTSHES PREPARED FOR DEMONSTRATION ON GAS RANGE BEFORE WOMAN'S RELIEF SOCIETY. Cream of Corn Soup. By" Louise Palmer Weber. 1 cup corn. 1 tablespoon butter. 1 teaspoon salt. 1 teaspoon sugar. 1 tablespoon minced onion. ]/% teaspoon pepper. 1 quart of milk. Place butter in stew pan  aluminum or enameled, and when melted, and onion, then corn and seasonings. When well heated, add milk. Serve when the boiling point is reached. Escallop ed potatoes. 6 medium-sized potatoes. 3 onions. 2 tablespoons flour, salt, pepper or paprika, enough milk to cover. Slice the potatoes and onions, then butter a baking dish or a casserole well. Place a layer of sliced potatoes, a layer of sliced 346 RELIEF SOCIETY \UGAZ1NE. onion, sprinkle a little Hour, salt, pepper, then the potatoes, etc., again, until all are used. Pour milk over and hake in a h<i oven about 45 minutes <>r an hour. Broiled Steak. Select a T-hone steak or a "3rd cut" sirloin. Turn on both burners of gas range oven and place steak in broiler. When a light "gray" in color, turn, and when this side is "gray" turn again; lower the steak in broiler and turn from time to time, lower the flame after the first six minutes. A three pound steak will broil perfectly in is minutes. Cabbage Salad. Cream dressing  shred cabbage and a small onion. Place both cabbage and onion in a large bowl, add 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon paprika, 1 teaspoon celery seed. Combine well and add the following dressing: 1 cup cream. 1 tablespoon sugar. 1 tablespoon vinegar, yolk of one egg. Beat the egg yolk until thick and lemon colored. Add sugar then cream and vinegar last. Combine with cabbage. Serve in green pepper "cases" or orange baskets, or with a slice of orange as a garnish. Tea Biscuits. Cream one-eighth pound butter, add 1 tablespoon sugar, 1 tablespoon salt, and alternately 3-4 cup of milk and 3 cups of flour, having sifted 2 teaspoons of baking powder with the flour. Mix well; turn on a floured board, pat, and cut with a small biscuit cutter. Brush the top of each biscuit with milk or place a small piece of butter on each one  a little salt may be added to the top of each biscuit. Bake in a hot oven. These biscuits may be cut the of in squares fruit short or in "fingers," and may be used as a basis for any cakes. Wonder Pudding. Whites of 6 eggs beaten stiff and dry, add one anil one-fourth cups granulated sugar. Continue beating with dover beater, add one tablespoon gelatine, dissolved first in cold water, then liquified over hot water. Separate into three parts  flavor each and color  add chopped pecan meats to one candied fruit chopped to another  and sprinkle chopped nuts over the top of pudding. Mold in a well buttered mold, and cut with a knife when ready to serve. The coloring, nuts, and candied fruits may be omitted if desired. Toad in the Hole. Place carrots, well scraped and quartered, in the bottom of a large casserole, place a layer of parsnips on the carrots, then turnips, then onions, lastly cakes of Hamburg steak, well seasoned. Add salt, pepper, and sprig of water cress. Cover tightly and hake in medium oven about two hours. Current Topics. James H. Anderson. In Russia, under the new form of government; women and men are to have equal elective franchise privileges. 119 ships in American ports were taken over by the United States at the breaking' off of relations with Germany and Austria, in April. Aliens from either Germany, Austria, Bulgaria or Turkey, in the United States, have been required to surrender all war weapons until peace is declared. Congress passed a law for a seven-billion dollar bond issue, and the same week the U. S. Government loaned Great Britain two hundred million dollars to aid in the war. Austria, then Turkey, broke with the United States when the latter announced a state of war with Germany, though there was no real necessity therefor except to comply with German wishes. Special commissions of high dignitaries came from Great Britain, France and Italy to the United States, during April, to confer with the administration here relative to the conduct of the war. The first U-submarine sunk by an American boat was that to which one shot from the Mongolia, an armed freight ship, brought final disaster, while the submarine was maneuvering to torpedo the great liner. The U. S. agricultural department has issued a series of bulletins on "how to grow potatoes," while numbers of farmers have replied, asking the experts to demonstrate their theories by actual farm work. Bread prices in Salt Lake City in April reached fifteen cents per pound-and-a-quarter loaf, or twelve cents per pound; in London, England, it was lid. per four-pound loaf, or five and onehalf cents per pound  both loaves made from American flour. 348 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. Mexico might have been a good base for Germany to make <;n advance into the United States, if it were not the fact that the British fleet prevents the Germans from getting into Mexico with any considerable force. An incendiary fire and explosion at Eddystone, Pa., caused the destruction of a big munitions plant there, the loss of 112 lives and the injury of 121 other persons, in April, as the first 5-erious event in this country following the declaration of war with Germany. Norway fears to cease selling nickel to Germany lest the latter will make an attack on the basis of Norway's being unneutral. At the same time, the nickel is used in making torpedoes with which 420 Norwegian ships already have been sunk and 450 Norwegian sailors killed. Conscription of youths between 19 and 25, for the U. S. army, has been the great war question in Congress. The objection to the system is that it takes for army training mere youths, at a time when their moral character is more liable to injury from the associations there than at any other period in life. Equal suffrage for women with men in Great Britain, has been promised by the British premier. David Lloyd George. He assumes this attitude on the question by reason of the patriotic services of the women there during the great war, and not because of any suffragist agitation. The U-Boat policy of Germany has been a success in at least one respect  that of bringing a declaration of war from the V. S. on the morning of April 6, this being followed by similar action on the part of Brazil, Cuba, and other heretofore neutral nations. In Palestine the British forces have made notable advances west of Jerusalem; and the Mesopotamian expedition has advanced 100 miles beyond Bagdad. This makes it appear that the redemption of the Holy Land from Turkish rule may be an event of 1917. The European war has undergone considerable change on the western front, by British and French successes in great battles during April. But the Germans have an even stronger line than now, along the Meuse in France and Belgium, if they should be driven back to it; therefore these successes by no means indicate a near ending of the war. 

EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah. Motto  Charity Never Faileth. THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells President Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams First Counselor Mrs. Julina L. Smith Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman General Secretary Mrs. Susa Young Gates Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A. Empey . Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Miss Edna May Davis Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Priscilla P. Jennings Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Mrs. Julia M. P. Farnsworth Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Mrs. Phoebe Y. Beatie Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hydk Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. IV. JUNE, 1917. No. 6 OUR CONFERENCE. The Annual Conference of the Relief Society, President in April, 1917, was blessed with the presence Joseph F. Smith and teachings of our beloved leader and Speaks. president, Joseph F. Smith; and no less important were his exhortations and blessings pronounced in our own Conference than those wondrous texts he delivered at the opening session of the General Conference. Read his remarks in these pages; note how practically he deals with our wheat and conservation questions; his tender solicitude for the youth and the necessity of parents training them in the spiritual things of the kingdom; and withal, reverence for the aged and parents should develop with the growth of youth. The fashions of the day received careful attention  not only by his inspired utterances In Dress. but also in the addresses of our counselors, Clarissa S. Williams and Julina L. Smith. The folly of youth needs checking in these extreme times. Early marriages were advocated by the President, and he gave leaves from his own rich experiences to garnish this advice. The remarks of our general president, Our Own incline B. Wells, were remarkable in clear President Wells ness and pertinency. She dwelt on the loyal on Loyalty. attitude of the members of this Society to the Church and to our Country. She again 350 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. lifted up their voice in testimony of the Prophet Joseph's mission, and referred in moving tones to her commission to urge the sisters to store grain as given by President Brigham Young. Strange, is it not, that this solitary historic figure should be left on the earth to see the actual fulfilment of her divinely appointed mission! How rarely Moses enters the promised land. The practice of so-called birth-control or Birth Control race-suicide was pronounced a crime by Denounced. President Smith and Counselor Julina L. Smith. Latter-day Saints who indulge in this will not be blood-guiltless. The resolutions afterwards presented to the Conference were sustained by the hearty vote of the President and the Presiding Bishop as well as by the whole Conference. Ceasing to bear children or limiting offspring would not make right wrong, nor cleanse the earth from sin. To make of marriage a licensed debauchery could never eliminate criminals nor the feeble-minded; rather would it tend to increase all the fruits of selfishness and sin. The concluding thought given by President Christ Stands Smith is one that we shall do well to ponder: at the Head of God, not man. is at the head of this work. His Church. Not the President, nor any of his predecessors in office  not the Prophet himself is at the head of this work  but God stands at the head; Christ is the possessor of all authority, power, honor and glory. When men and women seek glory, fame, and Give Glory honors, when their feet hurry after the flattery of men and their souls are unsatisfied with the meek gifts of silent service, then should they pause and consider well this parting exhortation. For it applies to our Relief Society in supreme measure. Not Joseph Smith who organized this Society, in 1842: not Brigham Young who reorganized it, in 1866; not Joseph F. Smith who regulated and gave life and the spirit and genius of growth and progress to its weakened and debilitated forces, in 1911; no. nor Eliza R. Snow, Mary Fielding Smith, Zina D. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sarah M. Kimball, M. Isabella Home, nor Emmeline B. Wells  not any nor all of these have imparted the creative life and inspired development of this great original Relief Society. It is the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Patter-day Saints of which Christ stands at the head. His is the work, the spirit, the power and the inspiration. Men and women who have sought to follow His guidance, all give Him the honor and the glory. How good it is to serve Him and how sweet are His teachings! Guide Lessons. JUNE. Home Economics LESSON I. Note.  These lessons may be subdivided and arranged for four meeting's. PRESERVATION OF FRUITS AND VEGETABLES. It is the patriotic duty of every American citizen to help in every way possible in the production and conservation of our food products/ One of the very best ways of doing this is to economize in food waste. To waste anything is a crime. Women and girls can help in this important matter by canning and putting up for next winter fruits, vegetables, meats, soups, anything and everything that will have a food value. The high cost of living, the shortage of food supplies, have made it necessary to urge this matter very earnestly. Not only can fruits be canned successfully and economically in glass and tin, but so also can all kinds of fresh vegetables, all kinds of meats and soup stocks. This will enable us to have on hand at a moment's notice any and all of the necessaries of life. Since canning is a means of preserving food from bacteria, it is well to know something of their characteristics. First, they are so small that they are invisible except under a powerful lens. On about this. account, people either don't believe in them, or forget Second, the air, the dust and all objects are covered with them. Third, temperature affects them. Cold, even to freezing point, does not kill them, but only prevents their growth. - Sunshine and scalding heat applied a certain length of time, destroys them. Moderate heat or normal body temperature is the best possible medium for their growth. Fourth, some bacteria form a spore or small seed which is covered with a hard coat. When the seed bursts through the covering, another germ is formed. These spores are not easily killed even by intense heat. Fifth, meats, sugars and starches are spoiled when exposed to the germ-laden air and dust. Excess 352 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. of sugar, as in preserving fruits, kills germ life. Acid fruits are not readily attacked, and an excess, as in pickling vegetables or meats, destroys them. STERILIZATION. To render an article sterile is to treat it in such a manner that germ life is entirely killed, and to keep the article under such conditions that germs cannot gain access to it. The first is accomplished by exposing articles to direct sunlight, heat, wet or dry, and the application of acids, salts 01 spices: the second by sealing the articles in air-tight sterile containers. GENERAL RULES FOR CANNING. ( 1 ) Cleanliness of person, equipment and surroundings is necessary to insure success. (2) Small utensils such as forks, knives and spoons should be kept in a pan of boiling water when not in use. Rubbers should be dipped in boiling water. Jars and lids should be placed in cool water, allowed to come to a boil and kept boiling until needed finance. (3) Vegetable-- and fruits should be gathered as soon be fore canning as possible. Peas are particularly liable to infection. (4) Seal jars while hot. If necessary to steam the second day on account of the possible presence of spores, do not loosen the lid. If it is desired to add anything to a jar that has been scaled and cooled, steam again as a precaution. (5) Handle materials and utensils as little as possible. Do not touch the interior of jars with the fingers. Use a long handled fork or spoon to remove them from the boiling water. (6) Label, giving date, variety of vegetable and fruit, method and time used in process. This will add in standardizing the work. (7) Never use chemical powders to preserve food. If they are strong enough to destroy germs and spores, they are likely to have an injurious effect on human beings sooner or later. METHODS OF FOOD PRESERVATION. Sun-Drying. Place fruit or vegetable to be dried in a dripper and set in a moderately hot oven. Allow to steam for an hour. Put on racks made of fine screening, cover with a cloth to protect from flies and other dirt and allow to remain in direct sunlight for a day, turning often. GUIDE LESSONS. 353 Heat-Smoking or Curing (applied to meat). Make a brine solution as follows: To each 100 lbs. meat, 8 to 12 lbs. common salt, 3 lbs. brown sugar, 3 ounces salt per, 6 gallons water. Boil all together gently for one hour in a clean vessel. Cook before using. Trim meat to proper shape and size. Lay in barrel, meat side up, placing heavy weights on top of pieces. Cover with cold brine at least two inches above the top piece. Keep meat continually covered with brine. Time for keeping meat in the brine: small pieces, three to four weeks; large pieces, about eight weeks. The meat should be smoked after it is taken from the brine or it is liable to spoil in warm weather. Time for smoking meat: three to four days. Sacking the meat: After the meat is cooled, protect it by placing in strong flour sacks, tied tightly and painted on the outside with the following: For 100 pounds ham or bacon  3.0 pounds of barite (barium sulphate), .06 pounds of glue, .08 pounds of chrome yellow (lead chromate), .40 pounds of flour. Fill a 3- to 4-gallon bucket one-half full of water. Mix in flour. Dissolve the lead chromate in one quart water in a separate vessel. Add this solution and the glue to the flour and water. Bring to a boil, and while boiling, add the barium sulphate slowly, stirring constantly. The painting of the sack keeps the meat moist by rendering it impervious to the air. Pickling is accomplished by the use of salt, vinegar, spice and oil. METHODS OF CANNING. Open Kettle. The food is cooked completely and then poured into jars previously sterilized. In order to avoid possible infection, it is safest to place the filled jars in a boiler and steam for at least twenty minutes. Cold Pack. The food is packed into sterilized jars, with or without liquid, and capped loosely. The jars are placed in a receptacle containing water, and steamed. For length of process see table. The receptacles that may be used are as follows: (a) Wash Boiler. The boiler should be fitted with a piece of wood, wire screening or some device to keep the bottles from touching the bottom. A cloth should be placed over the top and the lid pressed tightly down to keep in the steam. (b) The Oven. A number of jars can be handled at once. An asbestos mat or a pan containing water in which to set the 354 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. jars is necessary. The oven should be hot at first. Allow at least a hour additional lime for this method. The Pressure Looker. The use of the pressure cooker is recommended wherever it is possible to secure one, as it saves time, energy and fuel. The same methods exactly are used as with other outfits such as the wash boiler, excepting that only one-third to one-fourth of the time is required to perfectly sterilize the products. [f the tin cans are u-e<l. secure the enameled or lacquered sanitary cans. It would be well also to secure a small self -sealing outfit so that the cans can be sealed without solder and acid me of those outfits costs but little and can be used by the entire community. 1 would suggest that a number of families unite and form a canning club, buy a steam pressure outfit and also a self-sealer outfit. The total cost of these outfits need not exceed $35. It seven families unite on this it will he $5 for each fairly. which amount can he saved three or four times over by the use of them. In time, energy, fuel and kindly feelings or disposition. All of the fruits and vegetables may he divided into two great classes afollows: Protein Foods. Corn, beans, peas and other vegetables with a large protein content are best canned with a water seal or steam outfit. Proteins a favorable medium for the growth of bacteria, and such vegetables require a high degree of heat and a longer period of sterilization. Moisture also infavorable to the growth of bacteria, and free water serves as a medium to carry the developing spores to other parts of the can. Tt is therefore believed that the drier these foods are packed the les> likely they are to spoil. Acid Products. Tomatoes, rhubarb, gooseberries and other fruits or vegetables with a high percentage of acid keep most easily. Such fruits and vegetables shrink most in canning. Blackberries, red raspberries, and some other of the more acid products should be canned in glass or lacquered tin, as they lose color easily. Pumpkin and squash should always be canned in glass or in lacquered tin. Rhubarb should always he canned in glass. Apples and blackberries deteriorate with keeping and should not be kept over from year to year. It is best to market these products soon after canning. RECIPKS FOH CANNING. For convenience the fruits may be classified into four distinct groups, or classes, such as soft fruits, sour berry fruits, hard fruits, and citrus fruits. GUIDE LESSONS. 355 1. Soft fruits, such as strawberries, blackberries, dewberries, sweet cherries, blueberries, peaches, apricots, etc. Recipe for canning soft fruits. Can the same day fruit is picked. Grade and rinse the fruit by pouring water over it through a strainer. Cull, seed, and stem. Pack immediately in glass jars or tincans. Add boiling hot syrup of 18 per cent density (thin). Place rubber and top in place. Partially tighten. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize in hot water bath outfit 20 minutes; in water-seal outfit, 15 minutes; steam pressure outfit under 5 pounds steam, 10 minutes; in aluminum pressure cooker, with 10 pounds of steam, 7 minutes. Remove. Tighten covers. Tighten. to cool and test joints. Wrap glass jars in paper to prevent bleaching; then store. 2. Sour berry fruits, such as currants, gooseberries, cranberries, and sour cherries. Recipe for canning sour berry fruits. Can same day picked. Stem, hull, and clean. Blanch in hot water one minute. Remove and dip quickly in cold water. Pack berries closely in container. Add hot syrup of 28 per cent density until full. Place rubber and cap in place. Seal partially, not tight. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize in hot-water bath outfit 20 minutes; in water-seal outfit, 15 minutes; in 5-pound steam pressure outfit, 12 minutes; in aluminum pressure-cooker outfit under 15 pounds of steam, 8 minutes. Remove jars. Tighten covers and invert to cool and test joints. Wrap in paper and store. 3. Hard fruits, such as apples, pears, quinces, etc. Recipe for canning hard fruits. Grade, blanch 1*4 minutes, and plunge quickly in cold water. Core, pit, or remove skins, if necessary. Pack whole, quartered, or sliced as desired. Add boiling-hot syrup of from 18 to 28 per cent density (medium thin). Place rubbers and tops in position. Partially tighten. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize 25 minutes in hot water bath outfit; 18 minutes in water-seal outfit; 12 minutes under 5 pounds steam in steam-pressure outfit; 0 minutes in aluminum pressure-cooker under 15 pounds pressure. Remove jars. Tighten covers and invert to cool and test joints. Wrap glass jars in paper to prevent bleaching, and store. We are presenting to our readers, the signed statements verifying an egg preservative which is sold by Mrs. Sarah Reynolds, No. 976 Belmont Ave., Salt Lake City, Utah, which we take pleasure in recommending to our sisters, or those desiring to preserve eggs whenever the time presents itself for so-doing. We hope the sisters will study carefully the lesson prepared for the proper canning of vegetables and fruits, as they are thoroughly reliable. We also recommend the pressure cooker, 356 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. which is so frequently mentioned in the lesson on canning, etc.. and feel that the suggestions offered for forming community clubs is one of the best ways possible to. obtain a cooker for use during the strenuous time of putting up the winter's supply of food. The following are names and addresses where the above mentioned articles may be obtained. We hope at least you will accept the recommendation for sending for catalogue, etc. The National Home Outfit, the Northwestern Steel and Iron Works, Eau Claire, Wisconsin  price $10.00 will handle over one hundred quarts a day. Send for circular and recipe book. Invaluable for use in community canning and for large amounts. The Denver Pressure Cooker Company, Denver, Colorado, aluminum cooker, the fifteen dollar size holds six quarts. Good for use of small families. The steam cookers have great advantages for canning purposes. They save fuel, time, and, all things being equal, insure success and therefore safety. They are also economical in cookery, since the food value is retained. Green beans requiring four hours steaming, may be bottled in forty minutes. Dried beans requiring eight to ten hours' cooking, may be prepared in fifty minutes. If requiring three hours' cooking, may be prepared in one hour. Pot roast, requiring one to two hours, may be ready to serve in one hour's time. TESTIMONIALS WITH REGARD TO THE EGG PRESERVATIVE. Last winter I started to use eggs preserved by Mrs. Reynolds and I have continued to use them since because they taste just as fresh as fresh eggs, and are much cheaper. With me it is a question of good business in housekeeping Mrs. economy. M. J. Pickering, 319 K Street, Salt Lake City. April 12, 1917. To whom it may concern: This is to testify that I had occasion during the past winter to use some of the eggs preserved by a process used by Mrs. Sarah Reynolds, which conserves the natural flavor of the e^ and prevents the usual stale taste found in storage eggs. Yours very truly, Mrs. A. S. Worswick. In February, 1()17, I bought and used some eggs preserved by Mrs. Reynolds. During May of the preceding year. T found the eggs to be strictly fresh and can highly recommend this method of preserving eggs. Mrs. Jessie L. Maxwell, 1126 Fourth Avenue. GUIDE LESSONS. 357 LESSON II. VEGETABLES. Vegetable greens, both wild and cultivated. Recipe for canning vegetable greens. Prepare and can the day picked. Sort and clean. Blanch in a vessel with a little water under false bottom or in a regular steamer, 15 to 20 minutes. Remove. Plunge quickly into cold water. Cut in convenient lengths. Pack tight in jar or container and season to taste; add a little chipped beef, olive oil, etc. Add hot water to fill crevices, and a level teaspoon full of salt to each quart. If using glass jars place rubber and top in position, partially seal; if using tin cans, cap and tip completely. Sterilize 110 minutes in hotwater bath outfit; 75 minutes in water-seal; 60 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds of steam; 30 minutes in aluminum pressure-cooker outfit at 15 pounds of steam. Remove from canner. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test joints. Wrap in paper to prevent bleaching and store. For greens use any of the following: Cabbage sprouts, turnip tops, spinach, beet tops, pepper cress, dandelion, wild mustard, milkweed (tender sprouts and young leaves). 2. Root and tuber vegetables, such as carrots, parsnips, beets, turnips, sweet potatoes, .etc. Recipe for canning root and tuber vegetables. Grade for size, color, and degree of ripeness. Wash thoroughly. Use vegetable brush. Scald in boiling hot water sufficiently to loosen skin. Plunge quickly in cold water. Scrape or pare to remove skin. Pack whole or cut in sections or cubes, as required by the home or market standard. Add boiling hot water and one level teaspoon full of salt to the quart. Place rubbers and tops in position. Partially seal, but not tight. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize 110 minutes in hotwater bath outfit; 20 minutes in water-seal outfit; 75 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds of steam; 45 minutes in aluminum pressurecooker under 20 pounds of steam. Special vegetables. Tomatoes and corn. Recipe for canning tomatoes.  Grade for size, ripeness, and color. Scald in hot water enough to loosen skins. Plunge quickly in cold water. Remove. Core and skin. Pack whole. Fill container with whole tomatoes only. Add one level teaspoonful of salt to each quart. Place rubber and cap in position. Partially seal, but not tight. (Tin cans should be sealed.) Sterilize 358 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. 25 minutes in hot-water bath outfit; 22 minutes in water-seal outfit; 18 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds steam; 12 minutes in aluminum pressure cooker under 20 pounds steam. Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test joints. Wrap jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test joints. Wrap jars in paper and store. Recipe for canning sweet corn on the cob.  Can corn the same day picked. Remove husks, silks, and grade for size. Blanch on the col) in boiling water 5 to 15 minutes. Plunge quickly in cold water. Pack ears, alternating butts and tips, in half gallon glass jars or golden tin cans. Pour over boiling hot water and add 2 level teaspoonfuls  of salt to each gallon. Place rubbers and tops in position. Seal partially but not tight. (Seal tin cans.") Sterilize in hot water bath outfit 220 minutes, one period; 40 minutes in water-seal outfit; 75 minutes in steam pressure outfit under 5 pounds steam; 45 minutes in aluminum pressure cooker under 20 pounds steam. Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test joints. Wrap glass jars with paper and store. Note.  When sweet corn is taken from jar or tin can for table use. remove ears as soon as jar or can is opened. I Teat corn, slightly buttered, in steamer. Do not allow ears to stand in water or to be boiled in water the second time. Recipe for canning sweet corn cut from cob.  Can the same day as picked. Remove husks and silks. Planch on the cob in boiling hot water 5 to 15 minutes. Plunge quickly in cold water. Cut the corn from the cob with a thin, sharp-bladed knife. Pack corn in jar tightly until full. Add one level teaspoonful of salt to each quart and sufficient hot water to fill. Place rubber and top in position; seal partially but not tight. ( Seal tin cans.") Sterilize 220 minutes in hot-water outfit; 110 minutes in water-seal outfit; 75 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds of steam; 45 minutes in aluminum pressure cooker under 20 pounds of steam. Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test joints. Wrap with paper and store. Other vegetables, such as Lima beans, string beans, peas, okra. etc. Recipe for canning.  Can same day vegetables are picked. Cull, string, and grade. Planch in boiling hot water for 2 to 5 minutes. Remove and plunge quickly in cold water. Pack in container until full. Add boding hot water to fill crevices. Add one level teaspoon full of salt to each quart. Place rubbers and tops in position. Partially seal, but not tight. (Seal tin cans.) Sterilize in hot-water bath outfit one period of 145 minutes; 110 minutes in water-seal outfit: 75 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds steam; 50 minutes in aluminum pressure cooker GUIDE LESSONS. 359 under 20 pounds of steam. Remove jars. Tighten covers and invert to cool. Wrap jars in paper and store. Pumpkin and squash. Recipe rations. Remove for and canning remove pie filling". Cook skins.  Cutforup30into convenient minutes to reduce to pulp. Pack in glass jars or tin cans. Add 1 cup of sugar and 1 teaspoon full of salt to each quart of pulp. Place rubber and top in position. Partially seal, but not tight. Sterilize 75 minutes in hot-water bath outfit; 60 minutes in water-seal outfit; 50 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds of steam; 40 minutes in aluminum pressure cooker under 20 pounds of steam. Remove. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test joints. Wrap in paper and store. Recipe for canning for special dishes fried, creamed, baked.  Cut pumpkin or squash into small, uniform size cubes. Blanch in boiling water for 10 minutes. Plunge quickly in cold water. Pack in jar until full. Add boiling hot water and 1 level teaspoonful of salt to the quart. Place rubbers and caps in position, but not tight. Sterilize 75 minutes in hot-water bath outfit; 55 minutes in water-seal outfit; 40 minutes in steam-pressure outfit under 5 pounds steam; 30 minutes in aluminum pressure cooker under 15 pounds of steam. Eggplant. Remove the skin of the eggplant and slice across the fruit. Make slices about one-half or three-fourths of an inch thick. Blanch 3 minutes in boiling water to which has been added a tablespoon full of salt per quart. Plunge into cold water and pack in glass jars. Fill with boiling hot water and add a level teaspoonful of salt per quart. Put rubber and cap in position, not tight. (Cap and tip if using enameled tin cans.) If using a hotwater bath outfit, sterilize 60 minutes; if using a water-seal outfit or a 5 pound steam-pressure outfit, sterilize 45 minutes; or if using an aluminum pressure-cooker outfit, sterilize 30 minutes. Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test the joints. Wrap jars with paper to prevent bleaching and store. Cauliflower. Use the flowered portion. Blanch 3 minutes. Plunge into cold brine (one-half salt to 12 quarts water.) Allow cauliflower to remain in this brine for 12 hours. Pack in glass jars or enameled tin cans.' Fill with boiling water and level teaspoonful of salt per quart. Put rubber and cap in position, not tight. (Cap and tip if using enameled tin cans.) If using a hotwater bath 360 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. outfit, sterilize 45 minutes; if using; a water-seal outfit, sterilize 35 minutes; if using a 5-pound steam-pressure outfit, sterilize 30 minutes; or if using an aluminum pressure-cooker outfit, sterilize 20 minutes. Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test the joints. Wrap jars with paper to prevent bleaching and store. The use of tin cans. The use of tin cans is regarded as entirely practical for the home canning of surplus fruits and vegetables of the farm. Their use for this purpose is recommended because it simplifies the canning operation. The use of tin cans for the canning of surplus fruit and vegetables has the further advantage that products so packed are easily handled in transportation and storage. In the canning of green vegetables, meats, fish, rhubarb, berries, pumpkins, squash, beets, etc., however, the lacquered (enameled) can should be used because these products may contain substances which dissolve the tin of the ordinary cans, and thus the food may be rendered harmful to health. Canning fruit juices. In order to can fruit juices, the first important thing to provide is a fruit press, cider mill, or some kind of contrivance or device which will make it easy and practicable to press the juice from the fruit. In most cases the canning of fruit juices or sterilization can be accomplished in very much the same way as the canning of the fruit itself, except in preliminary steps and in the methods of rinsing, scalding, and peeling the fruit before pressing and in a slight difference in the amount of time required. Fruit juices?.s a rule will not stand as much cooking or as high a temperature during the sterilization period without the danger of destroying the natural fruit flavor. Rhubarb. Wash stalks clean. Cut into pieces three-fourths of an inch in length. (Do not remove skin.) Blanch 2 minutes. Cold dip. Pack in glass jars. (Do not use tin cans.) Pour on thick syrup, boiling. Put rubber and cap in position, not tight. (Cap and tip if using enameled tin cans.) If using a hot-water bath outfit, sterilize 20 minutes; if using a water-seal outfit or a 5-pound steam-pressure outfit, sterilize 10 minutes. Remove jars. Tighten covers. Invert to cool and test the joints. Wrap jars with paper to prevent bleaching and store. COLUMBIA GRAFONOLAS and Double Disc Records The mechanism, style, finish and every detail of the COLUMBIA products are as near perfection as possible. Let us send you catalogue of Machines and Records. We can arrange terms. FURNITURE  CARPETS RUGS-RANGES GOCARTS, Etc FURNITURE of QJALITY Co-op Furniture Company Salt Lake City, Ulah W. N. WILLIAMS. Supt. HAVE YOU SUBSCRIBED FOR THE Relief Society Magazine IF NOT, DO IT AT ONCE Ring the Bell! You furnish the "BELLE" and we'll supply the RING McCONAHAY the Jeweler 64 SOUTH MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JULY, 1917 Have You Planted Corn and Beans? How Much can You Save This Year? Have You Ordered Your Pressure Cooker? Arn't You Proud of the Relief Society Red Cross Donation? Now for a Patriotic, Sane Fourth and Twenty-Fourth. IN MEMORY OF 1847. O come with me a little way  We'll turn time's pages back again, And gaze as at a long lost scroll. (Tis scarcely three-score years and ten). Dost see that stretch of sage-brush land? How grim, forbidding it appears; How dead and changeless it must be, Deserted lain, for countless years. And note the soil, the hard backed clay, '"Twas never done, 'twill never be." "It can't be done," the doubters say. Their leaders answer, "Wait and see." Now look again, the scene is changed, And far and near on every side The valley teeming with full life Where Israel's chosen ones reside. Gone are those dauntless pioneers 'Who builded better than they knew. Their children reap w:th love and tears, Yet, let us hope, with hearts as true. Hazel Washburn. THE Relief Society Magazine 