Condolence The loving sympathy of the entire Relief Society organization goes out to Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund, of the General Board, on the death of her husband, Henry C. Lund, who passed away, Saturday September 6, 1925. The extent of the sympathy extended to her and the high esteem in which she and her husband are held, was testified by the large number that attended the funeral services, the wealth of floral tributes on that occasion, and the beautiful words of praise and commendation of his life, spoken by those who bore testimony of his worth. Henry C. Lund was the son of the late President Anthon H. Lund. He was a member of the General Board of the Y. M. M. I. A. THE DAY By Grace Ingles Frost. Afar is flung the sable robe of night; The gleaming, golden garment of the morn Trails o'er the earth its witchery of light, And Day from purple mystery is born. The Day whose chariot wheels are twined with flow'rs Close folded o'er a meed of thorny scars; The Day that holds the mystic chain of hours, For man's divine ascension to the stars. The Day! The Day! Whose panting steeds apace, With flowing mane and scintillating eye, Have joined with eager swiftness in the race, That speeds with mad'ning haste the moments by. The Day whose ebbing life tide stains the west, At length in closing conflict with the sun; The Day that finds in recompense of rest, The guerdon of the victory lost and won. EVENTIDE The silence of eventide drifts slowly down, A calm benediction from shadowy hills, Soothing e'en into the land of the sun, Agleam in the far away west. Now here and now there shines a star from the blue Of the stillness that reigns in the heavenly deep, Where night, like a nesting bird covers the earth With peace and the quiet of sleep. NIGHT She does not come as comes the day, In chariot of gold, But like an angel of mercy, With the mantle of peace to fold Close, close around toil-worn nature, While forth from her hand there gleams The sheen of a silent shuttle That weaveth the web of dreams Phyllis Morton's Birthday Gift By Myrtle M. Dean Beth Mason moved hurriedly about her little sitting room, dusting and gathering up scattered toys the children had tired playing with. Though she could not always keep things done up to the minute in her home, yet she always tried to get*things in order before Bob came home from work. All morning she had ironed and patched, and her cheeks were flushed with fatigue. As she finished her task, she hesitated a moment before the front window to glance at the busy crowd going to and fro on the street, before her home. Some there were who moved with joyous step, with light hearts and happy, smiling faces; others, minds on business set, walked briskly to their labors; yet those there were who walked with faltering, weary tread, as if not knowing or caring where they went; and as she watched the never-ceasing throng, she thought, "I neither come nor go, but live my life within my little home, working, caring for the man I love and our four children." A shining, blue car drove into the yard of the home across the street from her own, and a trim little figure alighted and walked briskly up to the door. ?~ As Mrs. Mason watched the care-free step and trimly clad figure, a little of envy and resentment crept into her heart, and as the door closed on the dainty neighbor, Beth sank wearily onto a chair and gave vent to her bitter thoughts. Who could better judge what Phyllis Morton's ideals and aims in life should be, than Beth Mason? Hadn't they been children in the same little town together? Then, when they grew up, they were married the same month in the same eventful summer; afterward living just across the street from each other for ten long years. Beth also knew Phyllis Morton's mother had borne ten children, ever caring for them and teaching them the principles of right. Now Phyllis lived her life, just chasing bubbles; childless, never a care or worry, coming and going at her own sweet will; attending clubs, theaters and balls; shopping at the best stores in town, spending Jack Morton's money, that he so freely lavished upon her. While Beth washed, ironed, patched and sewed, did the numerous things a mother must do, when she has four lively, mischievous, healthy youngsters, scarcely two years apart. She had stayed at home, week in and week out, caring for her children. Though the family had been able to dress respectably, and  THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE she had tried ever so hard, to always keep herself neat and becoming about her home, still she knew, one would take her to be at least five years older than Phyllis Morton, although they were the same age. How shocking to even imagine Phyllis, in gingham aprons, working over heated wash tubs, and preparing her own meals, patching socks for her husband, and tying up little hurt fingers, or tucking children in bed. Beth: got up, looking about guiltily, feeling that were any one present he might read her thoughts. It was not without a twinge of conscience that the usual placid Beth, always gently accepting her cares and responsibilities, now gave vent to this harsh criticism of her little neighbor. "Of course, we are not always capable of judging, but any one can plainly see that Phyllis Morton is in perfect health, and they have plenty. To support a family." Beth busied herself patching aprons for Ruth, and stockings for little chubby Bobby, when the shrill cries from the nursery told her that six months' old baby Betty had finished her afternoon nap, and was claiming her share of attention. Baby was placed on the rug, to play with her rattle, and watch while the mending went on. Not many minutes had passed until baby's soft goos and dimpled smiles, sent the bitter resentment from mother's heart. The subject soon entirely slipped from her mind, until a half hour later, she saw Phyllis Morton coming up the walk to the house. As the door bell rang, Beth tried to hide her confusion, for her previous thoughts rushed in upon her, and her cheeks were slightly flushed, though she spoke with the usual cordiality as she greeted her visitor. "Busy? What are you doing, patching?" Phyllis asked on entering the room, "and there's baby Betty, hello, Fatty,' she called sweetly to the baby, and Betty began throwing her hands and wiggling delightedly, giving Phyllis one of her widest baby smiles. Phyllis took her up giving her a hard squeeze. "Say, she's the dearest little thing, Beth, such big blue eyes like yours, and her daddy's big, broad smile, hasn't she?" Beth was accustomed to having Phyllis run in occasionally, and fuss over the children. Many times she took Bobby or Hal, or all of them, over to her home and gave them cookies or candy, or even took them in her car, for a ride, but Beth had seen so many childless women fuss over other people's children for show, she thought; just so they didn't have the care of them! "Tt's my birthday, today, Beth, and I was lonesome for some old friend. Jack is gone all day, you know, and I am so far away from mother and all my family! I do get so lonely, sometimes," PHILLIS MORTON'S BIRTHDAY GIFT 529 Phyllis began yearningly. "You are lucky, having your mother so near you, Beth." - "Yes, I don't know how I should get along without mother. She is always so willing to help with the children, and when they are sick she is such a comfort. I'm glad you came, Phyllis," Beth said, her heart softening, as she watched Phyllis tenderly pat Betty's chubby hand. "It's Boby's birthday, too, he is four today." "Oh, is it? I wish I had known, I would have brought him a little gift. Where are the children?" "They are playing in the back yard, in their swing. Robert made them a swing this morning before he went to work," Beth said, as she looked from the side window and saw the happy youngsters playing, and heard little Bobby calling, "It's my turn now 'cause it's my birthday, you know." Jack gave me a gift this morning, that would be ever so nice for Bobby," Phyllis said, with a little nervous laugh. Beth wondered that Jack would give Phyllis anything that would be nice for a child. She had heard of the usual charming presents she received from her husband. Last year it had been the fine blue car, and at Christmas her beautiful furs and dainty pearl necklace, then there was the cut glass and gold mesh bag, and radio, all, Beth knew, were gifts from Jack to his wife. It was with a little feeling of envy she compared these, with the little simple gifts Robert had given her at such times, but of course it was all he could afford with a family to provide for, which he tried to do well, and many times there was no gift at all, and Robert would say, "I'm sorry I couldn't get you some little thing this time, Beth, but I love my girl as much as if I could give her the greatest gift that money can buy, and that counts most, doesn't it, dear?" he would ask, as he gave her a big birthday kiss. And Beth was happy and satisfied. "Jack always gives you something nice," Beth said, not wishing to seem inquisitive, but wanting to appear interested in Phyllis' affairs. "Yes, ever so many lovely things. Even more than he can afford. His every thought and effort seems to be to keep me happy and satisfied, by the things money can buy and do. I am at liberty to go and come as I please. I have friends in what you would call the best society, yet, somehow, it does not satisfy. This morning, Jack gave me such a beautiful dress, just a dream of a thing. No other man has such good taste, in buying things for a woman, I think, sometimes; and another present he gave me, too," she said hesitatingly, as a little sob of a laugh came from her lips, "a little, white, fluffy ball of a dog; and for me, Beth?a lovely gift for a child, little Bobby would love it, but for


me?to love?to fondle. Oh, Beth," she continued brokenly, "to think of loving a thing like that, when I might love a beautiful baby like this, if only Jack were willing; but I can't make him understand." Tears fell on little Betty's curls, and her big, blue eyes looked wonderingly at Phyllis. "Dear Phyllis, and I had thought you didn't care," Beth confessed sympathetically, "forgive me, dearie, can you?" "Never mind they all think that, why shouldn't they? We all misjudge one another; it is just as well that I am blamed, I don't want them to blame Jack. He wishes to be kind, and I could not ask that he love me more. He just cannot understand. He was an only child, brought up without companionship, save what money could bestow; he doesn't hate children, as some men do, but he hasn't the natural longings to be a father that a man should have, and thinks it foolish, for me, to want to be tied down with such responsibilities. "The first few years, after we were married he could not think of letting his little girl be tied down," he said, "We must first have a trip to California, then to some other place, and then ?perhaps, if I would be so foolish, but still it is the same. Always, he has spent his every spare cent lavishing some luxury upon me; he wants to please me so, and sometimes he appears so hurt and disappointed, that I cannot be content, with just his love and what he gives me, but my mother was a mother of ten children, which she considered, as precious gifts from heaven; this she taught me; besides, my natural woman's instinct?how could I be satisfied? And then, this morning, that little dog?for me? with my arms just aching for a baby, I just couldn't say, 'Oh, isn't it just dear, I'll love it so,' as I have heard so many women say, and I think they lied. I think I didn't say much of anything, and tried not to show that I wanted to kick the poor little thing out into the street. I've always felt that way when I saw women fondling little dogs. I could have petted it, had it been for a little boy to play with, like Bobby. It made me feel so, I couldn't say much about the lovely dress; he brought them in together, and he went away to work, feeling hurt, I know. Forgive me, Beth, for bothering you with this, but it seemed I must tell some one, some one who could understand." "I am so glad you came, and that you told me. I have misjudged you so, thinking you so care-free, with nothing more you desired to make you happy. I have even complained that God has been so kind to me, but I hope I will never complain again, even though it seems a little hard, the responsibilities a family brings. I should be the happiest woman in the world, with my four jewels and a husband who loves me and them."