the editor, Mrs. Alice L. Reynolds. This article was read at one of the regular meetings. The chief aim of this Society as stated by the officers is, "To live and help one another and to do everything possible for those who are unfortunate." The officers are: Mrs. Elizabeth Crawford, president, Mrs. Waldie and Mrs. Mary Allen, Counselors, Miss Jeanie Percy, Secretary and organist. Guide Lessons for December LESSON I Theology and Testimony THE MOSAIC Dispensation TIME: From the Calling of Moses to the Coming of Christ, PART I A. Moses' Premortal Estate. 1. He was foreordained. Joseph Smith, the Prophet, said, on May 12, 1844: "Every man who has a calling to minister to the inhabitants of the world was ordained to that very purpose in the grand council of heaven before the world was." (See Compendium, Gems, page 285.) In the light of the above declaration and a knowledge of the great spiritual work done by Moses, we are justified in saying. That what was recorded of Jeremiah could have been said of Moses. (See Jer. 1:5.) 2. He was a man of prophetic promise. That the preparation of Moses for his mission as a dispensator was a matter of special consideration in the spirit world is made plain in the Book of Mormon, II Nephi, 3:9, 10, 17. B. In Mortality. 120 years. (Deut. 34:7.) 1. The first forty years. With idolators, but under the protection of the Lord. The evil one had special interest in the captivity or the destruction of Moses, and the Lord had special interests in his preservation. Satan, as he always will be in a contest with God, was defeated. (a) Born under a death sentence of a Devil-inspired King. (Ex. 1:22.) The heinousness of this crime against children had its parallel in the edict of Herod. In each case the cause was jealousy, the major part of which is always cowardice. (b) Saved by a mother of superior intelligence. While the infants of other mothers were being discovered and drowned, she kept her babe from the Egyptian officers for three months. When others paid the penalty of the awful edict she obeyed the letter of the law and escaped the consequences of its evil spirit. There is no room to doubt that God added inspiration to her intelligence. (Ex. 2:2, 3.) (c) Becomes the adopted grandson of the King. No matter how kind the daughter of Pharaoh may have been in disposition, her gentleness had against it the prejudice of the nobility and of