[Vol25 | January 1938 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: Address]
addresses after which the curtain rose on "The Pride of the Market." The evening closed with dancing on the stage, and the Old Playhouse, though not entirely finished, was ready for use.
In the succeeding chapters, Mr. Pyper reviews for his readers the first performances in the Old Playhouse. On March 8, 1862, the first paid performance was given to a packed house. Despite the fact that many had said that the Theatre was far too big for a small pioneer community, President Young's judgment was justified at once. Hiram B. Clawson and John T. Caine were the first managers and the following men and women had parts in the first performance: John T. Caine, Henry Maiben, Joseph M. Simmons, R. H. Parker, David McKenzie, H. B. Clawson, S. D. Sirrine, R. Matthews, Henry Snell, John B. Kelly, Mrs. Woodmansee, Mrs. Margaret Clawson, W. C. Dunbar, H. E. Bowring, W. H. Miles, Phil Margets, Mrs. H. E. Bowring, Mrs. S. A. Cook, and Mrs. Maggie Thomas (afterwards Mrs. George Romney).
These are the ladies and gentlemen who sixty-six years ago (now seventy-five years ago) made the first move as players in the Romance of an Old Playhouse. For years following, the programs continued to hold many of these names in the long list of plays, to the delighted patrons of the drama."
On Christmas Eve, 1862, President Young arranged another party similar to the dedicatory program in the Old Playhouse. On that occasion he joined in the dance. At a given signal, the orchestra struck up the tune for the "Sir Roger de Coverly" and "a selected group led by President Young, executed the popular English dance."
In charming manner Mr. Pyper calls attention of his readers to the quaint advertisements and announcements which appeared in the printed programs. One, especially, may be of interest:
SPECIAL NOTICE "No Person, Policemen excepted, carrying FIREARMS or other Weapons, will hereafter be admitted into the Theatre. Strangers having no other place to deposit their arms, can leave them with the Treasurer at the Box Office, who will check for, and return them to the owner at the close of the performance."
Mr. Pyper adds: "Those, of course, were exciting days. I distinctly remember, when a boy, seeing a motley collection of pistols lying on one of the gallery tables with cards of identification on each. These had been taken from patrons to be returned at the end of the show."
For the next many years, the Old Playhouse was the center of the drama in western America. Some of the greatest American actors played upon the historic stage. During the early period ten of Brigham Young's daughters appeared with the Irwins in a show which has been well described by Susa Young Gates, an excerpt from whose statement is included in the Romance.
In 1864 the first prestidigitator or necromancer appeared in the Theatre. His appearance indicates that the Theatre was open to all kinds of artistic presentations. In December that same year "Hamlet" and "Macbeth" were first produced in the Theatre that was fifteen hundred miles from large centers of culture. Mr. G. Pauncefort, the Shakespearean actor, was popular and had a prosperous season at the Old Playhouse.
The chapter entitled, "A Cathedral in the Desert" contains many references that are unusually interesting and which reveal the author's tender memories of the details connected with the Old Playhouse. For instance, that battery of 385 oil lamps which had to be turned up and down as the play called for more or less light must be a choice memory, as were the successive installations of gas and electricity, as the world advanced in its knowledge of science.
In speaking of the Greenroom, the author says: "The capacious greenroom, a notable and historic gathering place for the early-day players, was located at the rear of the stage midway between the ladies' and gentlemen's dressing rooms... It housed democratic groups in the day time, and acknowledged a dictatorship at night. When the stock system was discontinued the room was given over to the stars. The stars! One almost tiptoes across the floor when he recalls with reverence the many immortals who have occupied the room. The world will never look upon their like again!
"The list is too long to enumerate here; but one might close one's eyes and see passing in and out of the old greenroom the shadows of all the great players who have crossed the continent between the years 1862 and 1928."
Suggestions for Study
1. A photograph of the Old Playhouse, if one is available, would be interesting. If no other is available, the one in the book could be used.
2. If there is a person in the class or community who has ever been in the Old Playhouse, perhaps that person could give some interesting descriptions.
3. Since the song, "Hard Times Come Again No More," one of President Young's favorites, was used at the dedicatory service, it could be used to give atmosphere to the lesson. In fact, where it is feasible, much of the program found on page 93 could be reproduced.
4. Read the list of plays presented during 1862-3 and comment upon their number and variety.
5. Show that the Prophet Joseph Smith was also in favor of dramatics.
