[Vol25 | January 1938 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Article | Title: Appreciation]

appreciation for this point of view; First, by indicating the importance of each citizen's responsibilities to the proper functioning of life's activities. Second, by encouraging individuals to take their part as essential links in the chain of social life.
All people are born to citizenship, but some relinquish their native birthright and acquire, through naturalization, a new citizenship in an adopted land. But no matter by what method one's citizenship has been established, all members of a State should manifest a live interest in public affairs. However, a spirit of apathy toward civic life frequently exists. It is often justified by the supposition that the duly appointed leaders are responsible for carrying on their own activities. But no leader can promote any activity without having interested people to direct. The two qualities are inter-dependent. Despite this fact, it sometimes happens that leaders prefer an apathetic attitude on the part of those whom they should be guiding. In this case they themselves lack good citizenship. They are not only willing, but anxious that others do not examine their conduct of public affairs lest disapproval of their actions should be expressed.
Generally speaking, apathy contributes to three great faults in social life: First, it allows corruption and unsocial behavior to permeate public life. Second, it thwarts the correction of existing undesirable conditions by allowing affairs to develop and continue unchallenged. Third, it retards the growth of social consciousness in regard to public life, in spite of the fact that such consciousness is necessary to the improvement of social conditions. By examining these three faults we can see why it should be incumbent upon each citizen to take an active interest in public affairs.
In the first place, corruption and unsocial behavior in public life are generally the results of a selfish minority who seek to promote their own private interest at the expense of the welfare of the whole. When public consciousness is blanketed with a spirit of apathy which allows state or municipal officials to conduct public affairs with no other scrutiny than that of their own eyes, it becomes relatively easy for selfish interest and private gain to flourish. But just as cleanliness and sunshine drive away the ravages of death-dealing disease germs, public examination dispels corruption and impotence in public office. Interested participation in behalf of its unities and ideals is indeed necessary to the wholesome maintenance of governmental bonds. If large groups shirk their responsibility in connection with Statehood, too often corruption flourishes. Constructive citizenship therefore requires that each individual exercise an active interest in the public acts of all civic officials.
Such activity is not beyond the average person. There are many avenues open to public interest in everyday life. Open forums permit discussion; newspaper columns invite comment; radio services offer broadcasts. Auxiliary legislative groups, civic, and some church organizations lend themselves to wholesome consideration of civic, and, in some cases, other forms of public life. No citizen needs to remain outside the current of the social stream.
By means of the second fault, or an apathetic attitude which circumvents the challenge of existing conditions, much good may be lost to society. Although, in a democracy, it is the duty of the minority to stand by while the majority is in power, the promulgation of the minority point of view does not need to be silenced. The minority has the right to agitate its own cause within the channels of the law. At times a losing cause, on becoming a winning issue, has proven highly beneficial to social welfare, and has come to be regarded in the light of widely approved thinking. Had the first minority group been so apathetic that existing conditions had remained un-- ' challenged, a majority vote for the issue would have been lost. An example is the case of prohibition in liquor traffic. Even after this measure has been tried and rejected, there is a minority which continues to believe in its efficacy for social welfare. This group has never given up its efforts to point out the virtue of abstinence or to agitate its cause. They believe in the ultimate possibility of its re-enactment and its consequent benefit to society. This example is typical of many others of lesser scope. Issues which are just as vital to the state or community in which one lives are constantly under consideration. A well informed member keeps abreast of these issues; and again, there are many channels open to investigation, and through which he can make his influence felt. An examination of the third fault reveals that an indifferent social consciousness is detrimental to public life. Social consciousness is the byproduct of interest in civic and political affairs. It is the state of awareness which results from such interest LESSON DEPARTMENT 69  Without this awareness in the body of the State organism, the head may do as it pleases. No matter what phase of public life is under consideration, if the members whose business is being conducted are indifferent to the means of procedure, those in charge may indulge in slipshod methods. The social consciousness of the public is always reflected in the actions of the officials. If, as a result of social apathy, conduct which is subversive to society is allowed -to exist, social consciousness may become even more dulled through the effect of contact with that which is evil, or at least undesirable. Thus negative actions may be furthered or allowed to continue without opposition. Active interest in public affairs is as necessary to healthy civic life as is exercise to the development of good muscle tone. Any democracy depends upon its rank and file, and not upon its ruling bodies, for its morale. And certainly a citizenry is defined by its morale. But at times outward appearances do not point to the true standard of citizenship in a community or a country at large. For example: No political party could conduct its campaign on the basis of such character vilification as is in vogue if its members disapproved of such conduct. A well-balanced citizenry could demand a more ethical form of political operations, and one which is more truly representative of party policies. All members should work for a better statement of principles and ideals, and an election campaign which is based upon real information. Also, the exercise of the electoral franchise by mere voting is not a complete discharge of duty. A member of a State should exert himself to use his intelligence and judgment to see that his vote is well considered.. In regard to civic life, apart from politics, we see that moral support and active co-operation are equally important to its state of well being. The recent feat of the three Russians who flew from Moscow over the roof of the world and down the American Pacific coast to southern California succeeded through the cooperation of scientific endeavor, governmental backing, and popular support. By working harmoniously toward a public enterprise, an epic flight, both as to distance covered and difficulty encountered, was completed. Moreover, co-operation was, in this case, extended to international support. The interest of Canadian and American aerial navigation officlals was as necessary to the success of the flight as was that of the Russian government and the people. The active assistance from all of the countries involved was indispensable to the completion of the endeavor. This kind of conduct also constitutes good citizenship?for citizenship has manifold aspects. The ethics of citizenship forms an extensive study in and of itself. Such questions as the use of a nontransferable streetcar transfer by one to whom the transfer was not issued, the evasion of quarantine laws, and the payment of taxes, are all subjects which pertain to citizenship. Any relation which contributes to public activities forms a part of the chain of social life. Individuals contribute to enterprise; enterprise contributes to the social fabric. Similarly the duties to one's church are also the duties of citizenship. Latter-day Saints could not conduct successful auxiliary organizations if their members did not participate actively. Without vigorous auxiliaries, the Church proper could not flourish. And thus the State is dependent upon the many aspects of its social organization. The links in the continuous chain of life are forged from  the associations of life. In society, each member forms a link. The chain is no stronger than the active participation of the average citizen. Activities 1. From your county recorder find out what proportion of the authorized voters take part in a regular county election. Do the figures indicate a healthy sharing of civic responsibility? Discuss ways of encouraging those who do not feel the importance of voting to participate in civic life for the benefit of the social activities of the country. 2. Make a list of the duties which the term "constructive citizenship" could imply to you. Child Guidance LESSON 7 SUCCESS AND FAILURE EMERSON has said, "Self trust is the first secret of success." Success is a habit a child gradually acquires in his early life. The infant finds success simply in hammering a block, because it satisfies one of his needs. We found in a previous lesson how frustration or failure in the infant's plans leads to emotional outbursts and often to stubborn, obstinate behavior. Even to adults nothing is more invigorating than achievement of their goals, especially after a difficult struggle. Deep feelings of failure are often the beginnings of mental break-down for those who have not learned how to take their failures. Failure in one task often builds up general feelings of inadequacy in all tasks. A sense of failure in turn makes one less efficient and more liable to fail again. We have known adults with normal intelligence and opportunity, to live lives of such habitual failure that total direct relief is all that could be done for them. Children who fail in school or at their play or chores around home are often called lazy, and lazy they are. But calling them lazy does not tell why they are that way. Laziness is no more a cause of failure than it is a result of it. Children are usually lazy because they have not learned the habit of success. They have not learned the joy of doing something well. It behooves the parent of a lazy child to start him out with tasks the goals of which are not too remote, and the difficulty of which is such that the child can certainly succeed with reasonable effort. Tasks of sufficient difficulty must be provided lest the child find them so easy that he loses all interest. A child with an inferiority complex well rooted in his personality is usually sensitive and shy, generally chooses not to join in with the crowd, expects himself to fail at each new task, does not finish his work promptly, hesitates before doing each new undertaking, and has difficulty deciding what to do next. This picture is the direct result of inferiority feelings. Frequently the compensation or camouflage, covers up the real difficulty, and the parent should look carefully behind all exaggerations in her child's conduct in search of the roots of inferiority feelings. How a child responds to his failure is of greater seriousness than the failure itself. No two children will respond exactly alike to what appears to the parent to be the same failure. Look carefully to the child's reactions to what he tries to do, and learn to detect the degree of frustration he feels in various situations. Watch especially how he feels about others in the family doing better than he does. A child sometimes begins developing inferiority feelings because he compares himself with an older and more mature brother or sister. This is particularly likely if the older one "boos" the younger for not doing so well. The younger one may be equally competent, but the greater maturity of the older one gives him an advantage. Every child is a challenging problem to his parents and should be studied and managed individually according to his specific needs.
Set rules can be set down for preventing and correcting inferiority feelings, but the remainder of this lesson will be directed to some general principles that should serve as a guide to the individual management of the child.
First of all, the child should be thoroughly examined for physical defects which might be the starting point for inferiority feelings. Obvious defects, such as birth marks, crossed eyes, paralyzed limbs or displeasing facial features are likely to have considerable significance to the child because they make him appear conspicuous. Extreme physical weakness, deafness or blindness are also common organ inferiorities. Mild visual or hearing deficiencies often cause backwardness in school work, and in turn, feelings of failure. Whenever possible the defects should be remedied. If they cannot be corrected, the child should be helped to find suitable compensations in the form of activities at which he is more certain of success. Point out to him persons like Thomas A. Edison who was partially deaf and yet achieved great fame as an inventor; John Milton who was blind and yet made significant contributions to literature; and Walter Scott, crippled from paralysis, who also became a great figure in the field of literature. Care must be taken not to urge the afflicted one to attempt the impossible and thereby increase his sense of inferiority.
A next safeguard is to prevent as far as possible other children from making fun of inferiorities of body or behavior. Parents should not call their children "good for nothing" and point out their defects in an unfriendly manner. If deficiencies are pointed out at all, it should be in a kindly manner and should be for the purpose of helping the child to meet them frankly and intelligently. Sarcasm and ridicule as forms of discipline are barbaric and should have no place in the modern home. Shame is a frequently used method that does nothing but add humiliation to a sense of failure, and arouses resentment and hatred. Severe and unjust punishments accomplish the same evil result. Children who are victims of these abuses frequently become cruel to others and attempt to destroy their happiness by disparaging remarks or interference with their activities.
Over-fond parents occasionally fail to let the child grow out of his baby clothes and be like other children. Ridicule is the most natural response of the children from whom he differs. Manners which are seriously affected and different from those of other children in the community are also the butt of much ridicule. A child's happiness in his play group and his general feeling of self-regard are really worth more than pretty curls and unsoiled linens.
As previously indicated, parents should provide tasks that will permit success with reasonable effort. This does not mean for the mother to do the task for the child, since only the successes the child himself earns bring him the satisfactions that are the basis of the habit of success. If the task is too difficult for the child, he is forced to fail; if it is too easy he does not feel the keen delight of achievement. A story is told of a man who was hired to pound logs with the blunt side of an ax for the same pay as actual chopping. By noon he quit the job because there was no challenge in it, no delight from the progress being made.
Occasionally an opportunity should be provided for the child to achieve a great success in order to let him know how success feels. We all know that life means infinitely more to us for days after a great success has followed a hard struggle. Failures are inevitable for all of us, however, and a realization of this fact takes some of the sting out of them. Everyone cannot succeed at every kind of task. Just as various birds and animals have their own way of protecting themselves?one flies, another runs, another climbs?so does each individual usually have a best field in which to succeed, however humble it may be. Because bookish things come hard to a child does not mean he cannot succeed abundantly in the use of tools or at farm work. In some cases, special talents for art or music may permit a child to succeed when ordinary social activities and academic school work are very difficult.
Many children fall into the easy error of feeling inferior all the way around just because they do not excel in everything they try. Failure to excel at one thing should stimulate the child to redouble his efforts to do well at his own line of greatest success. Abilities cannot be leveled out very well by an abundance of practice or training on the child's weak point. Better spend time at what can be done well than to discourage all effort through driving him to do what he persistently fails to do.
Parents should not make unfavorable comparisons between various children in the family. Favoritism is unfair both to the favored one and to the other. If a parent will observe carefully, she will find some one type of thing each child does well enough to deserve commendation, and it is her duty to see that he gets the satisfaction of doing that type of task, provided it is honorable.
In general, group competition is to be preferred to man-to-man contests. Prizes given to the "best" in a group should be replaced by praise or prizes to all who do as well as a certain standard. Those who cannot come up to that standard should be helped to do so, or promptly given another task that is within their reach.