[Vol25 | January 1938 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: To Mary Kimball]
ONE hesitates to express a choice as to which of her talents stood first. Surely to win the love of those in the school room?and to become eminent in an honored profession is no mean ac-
MARY CONNELLY KIMBALL
5
complishment. To be "adored" by girls and women in all departments of our Church organizations and to influence them to strive for splendid womanhood is an achievement greatly to be desired. To sway the hearts of young and old by tongue and pen to righteous living, is a precious gift vouchsafed to few. Yet, great as were all these gifts and talents, it was not for these that my deepest love went out to my friend. Her outstanding attribute was her absolute faith in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, as evidenced by her unswerving adherence to, and observance of the laws and ordinances of the Gospel. Her almost unparalleled affection for and devotion to her mother during the latter's lifetime endeared her to all. Their beautiful companionship was the embodiment of one's highest ideals, and furnished a masterpiece to hang in the gallery of one's memory. To her father she was ever the unselfish, considerate, intelligent daughter that made her companionship with him the joy of his life as he is often wont to say. She evidenced always unusual tenderness and strong affection for children in general and for Agnes in particular. The beautiful romance that surrounded her courtship and marriage, rather late in life brought a warm glow to many hearts. The esteem and affection existing between the two seemed almost akin to worship during the all too short period before her distinguished husband received his final call. The courage and fortitude Mary showed through the severe ordeals of parting with her mother and her husband were truly heroic.
LOYAL and devoted to her friends, she was literally as "true as steel." How often during the years has she brightened my home with blossoms from her lovely garden, or by a radiant smile or word of cheer left uplift and encouragement far greater than she knew. One friend said to me, "Since my husband's death I could scarcely have endured my loneliness had it not been for Mary?she calls me every day to learn if all is well." What devotion from one whose busy life made every moment precious! Mary is loved for the joy she took in serving others, for her modest unassuming nature, which testified so strongly of her greatness, of her integrity, her dependability, her tactfulness and of her desire always to say kind and helpful things. One of her last requests was that she be not eulogized. These are but the sincere expressions of a friend whose life has been richly blessed through her companionship.
THE funeral services were as she had wished and planned, unostentatious, yet, with a quiet dignity characteristic of herself. If spirits are permitted to hover near until the final rites are over, I am sure Mary's beauty loving soul rejoiced in the exquisite daintiness of her clothing and in the perfection of the blossoms that bore their silent messages of comfort to her stricken loved ones. The heartfelt tributes expressed by her file leader President Louise Y. Robison, by Dr. Middleton, President Spencer Kimball, Dr. John A. Widtsoe and President Heber J. Grant could not with truth and justice have been less glowing, and yet one marvels that in the span of three score years
 
one could have earned encomiums so numerous, and of such high order.
In reading the 23rd Psalm and extending his sympathy and blessing, Bishop Joel Richards showed rare sympathy and appreciation of Mary's worth as a member of his ward.
The beautiful music conveyed its own sweet message of hope and consolation, and when the last strains were heard one could imagine Mary's spirit waving a loving farewell, as with her radiant smile she echoed the Master's words: "In my Father's house are many mansions,... I go to prepare a place for you that where I am ye may be also."
MARY By Annie Wells Cannon
Serene she lay, soft-pillowed in chiffon Sweetly silent, so fair to look upon. The scented charm of flowers expressed Her quiet passing to eternal rest. We wonder if you knew when here How very much we loved you, dear.
