The Names of Santa Claus As Christmas draws near, the name of Santa Claus becomes vividly present in all children's thoughts. It is often on the lips of their parents. Too, with this and that admonishment to be good! Santa Claus is also called St. Nicholas, and, sometimes, Kriss Kringle. It is interesting to find out where he received these names. St. Nicholas, according to Webster's New International Dictionary, was a bishop of Myra, Asia Minor, about the year 300 A. D. "He is the patron saint of Russia, and of seafaring men, thieves, virgins, and children." From these multifarious duties, St. Nicholas seems to have selected one by which to be best known. "As the bearer of presents to children on Christmas Eve his name has been corrupted to Santa Claus," or, as it is occasionally spelled Santa Klaus. Kriss Kringle is a quite different name. It comes from the German "Christkindl," meaning the Christ child, or a Christmas gift, a diminutive of "Christ kind." GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 673 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in February) THE LOST COMMANDER?FLORENCE NIGHTINGALE By Mary Raymond Shipman Andrews Mary Raymond Shipman Andrews is the daughter of the Rt. Rev. Jacob Shaw and Ann Louise Shipman. On December 31, 1884, she married William Shankland Andrews. The first story by which she was widely known was "The Perfect Tribute" which was published in 1906. Since that time she has written a number of books and various articles for some of the best magazines. She is now living at Splitrock, Syracuse, New York. "A great commander was lost to England when Florence Nightingale was born a woman."?Sir Edward Cook. Mary Raymond Shipman Andrews takes the above quotation as a sort of thesis for her very readable life of Florence Nightingale, the mother of modern nursing. That idea is like the ground cloth of a piece of tapestry behind the colorful patterns of the twelve chapters of the volume which was published in 1929 by Doubleday, Doran & Company, Garden City, New York. On account of the fact that she has been a rather prolific writer since about 1906, Mrs. Andrews will not be a stranger to most of the Relief Society sisters. Her little story of Abraham Lincoln? "The Perfect Tribute'"?was one of the most popular short stories of the first quarter of this century and has had a very wide circulation. Those who know her work will have some idea before reading it what The Lost Commander is like, especially from the literary point of view. Mrs. Andrews in this as well as in many of her other works, has a tendency to be over sentimental. But in the main she restrains her story except in dramatic places where she allows herself to drift dangerously near to what newspaper men call "sob stuff." She has a facility of expression, however, and an imagination which add charm to the story. Mrs. Andrews begins the book with an imaginary incident in the life of Florence Nightingale. She pictures the little girl ready for a ride in the carriage with her very dignified and stylish mother at Embly, Hampshire, England, where the Nightingales lived. The nurse leaves the child for a moment while she goes away to attend to something. In that moment a dirty, wounded cat comes along, excites the pity of the little girl, who scoops her up in her arms, much to the detriment of the immaculate clothes she is wearing. The author introduces this imaginary episode to indicate that Miss  Nightingale, though a child of wealth and ease, the daughter of dignified English gentle folk, had from earliest childhood profound interest in the wounded, the maimed, and the sick of all classes. This bent in the girl s character is traced through her young womanhood to the time when she took up nursing as a life's work. On account of the author's propensity to mix imaginary incidents with the facts, the reader is sometimes a bit bewildered and is not sure just which is fact and which is fancy. This adds to the literary interest of the book, no doubt, but detracts from its value as biography. Another disconcerting feature is the frank statement that the author has set out to show that Florence Nightingale was in truth a "lost commander." With that thought comes the suspicion that the author has selected her facts, not to give a true and adequate picture of her subject, but to prove that she really might have been a great general had not fate made her a woman. Mrs. Andrews is bitter in her denunciation of Strachey, the English biographer, on the ground that he purposely selects uncomplimentary facts to present, thus painting an incorrect portrait. She says, "Strachey is a very 'smart-Aleck' artist indeed, whose trick is to make his sitters as ugly as possible, and yet preserve a likeness." And again: "People ought to condemn the more Strachey's dishonesty. If Strachey were dull, one could forgive him?in fact, one would probably not read him. A clever criminal deserves a deeper hell than a stupid one, not only because he does more damage but because he is more aware of his damaging." Of course the reader smiles over that statement, for Mrs. Andrews might be accused of selecting only those features to paint in that will show Florence a great commander, a fine figure everywhere. She may be merely looking at the other side of the shield. She does admit, reluctantly, that in the Lady-in-Chief's last years she was imperious, almost impossible, but she excuses her as deftly as she can. Despite its faults, the book is very much worth while in that it does give an interesting picture in an interesting way of this great leader of modern women, who gave her life to a great cause; a work out of which has radiated many movements that have been important in the evolution of the world in the direction of better health, better care of soldiers during both war and peace, better care of all sick, in fact, and a clearer understanding of women. According to Mrs. Andrews, she was the first woman ever to be appointed to any important office in the British government. Florence Nightingale was the daughter of Frances Smith and William Shore, who later, on account "of inherited property, took the name of Nightingale. This high-minded, splendid young couple went to the continent for their honeymoon, remaining several years in Italy. While there, two daughters were born to them, GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 675. Frances Parthenope and Florence, named after the cities of their birth. The younger, Florence, was born in 1820. Upon their return to England in 1821, the family lived at Lea Hall and later at Lea Hurst, Hampshire, on the Derwent River. In 1825 Embley Park was secured by Mr. Nightingale and also became a home of the family. The girls were well trained by Mrs. Nightingale in the art of managing a household, and, according to the times, were given a thorough education. Florence could speak several languages fluently and was accomplished in other ways. Though these girls had everything that. Position and wealth could afford, Florence was restless, feeling that life without some high purpose was not sufficient. While yet a very young lady she went on a visit to Rome, where she met Sidney Herbert and his charming wife, becoming intimate with both and loving both dearly. This was a very important acquaintanceship for the reason that Sidney Herbert later became Secretary of War and assisted Florence Nightingale in carrying on her chosen work. To indicate the bent of the girl's mind, it is interesting to note that in 1850 she wrote in her diary: "I am thirty, the age at which Christ began his mission. Now, no more childish things, no more love, no more marriage. Now, Lord, let me think only of Thy will." Mrs. Andrews reviews briefly the history of nursing; she shows that nursing in the modern sense was not known at that time. Sisters of charity, it is true, had nursed the sick since early Christian times, but in continental Europe and England the nurses of Florence Nightingale's time were "drunken, immoral, and untrained." In 1833 Pastor Theodor Fliedner, of Kaiserswerth, Germany, founded a school for nurses. He had in mind, however, only sisters of the Church. This school really got under way in 1836, when Florence was sixteen years of age. She heard of the Fliedner school in 1846 through a report which was sent to her by Baron Bunson. Despite the entreaties of her parents, especially her mother, she entered this school in 1851 and remained three months. She had found her work. "This is life," she wrote. "Now I know what it is to love life." In 1853 she went to visit the sisters of charity in Paris and to study the whole nursing situation. Later she became superintendent of one of the nursing homes in Harley Street, Paris, where she received training that was of paramount importance. In the year when she went to Paris came the Crimean War. British soldiers, fighting hundreds of miles from home, were poorly cared for when they fell sick or were wounded. A dispatch from Constantinople said: "No sufficient preparations have been made  for the care of wounded, not sufficient surgeons, no dressers and nurses.... In Scutari it is found that the commonest appliances of a workhouse sick ward are wanting, that men die through the medical staff of the British Army forgetting that old rags are necessary for the dressing of wounds." On October 14 and 15, 1854, Florence Nightingale and Sidney Herbert exchanged letters regarding the matter, and in seven days 38 nurses had been recruited to send to the front. On October 27 they sailed from France, arriving in Constantinople on November 4. These women and their Lady-in-Chief found four miles of cots six inches apart, each bearing its wounded soldier, most of whom had not received the commonest kind of first aid. These women literally rolled up their sleeves and went to work. Mrs. Gaskell, the novelist, said of Florence Nightingale, "She seemed as completely led by God as was Joan of Arc:" so wholeheartedly did she enter into nursing and so indomitable was she in securing what she wanted for the soldiers. Sidney Herbert said, "Those thirty-eight nurses on the way to Scutari are truer successors to the apostles shipwrecked at Melita than thirty-eight cardinals." Mrs. Andrews cleverly connects Tennyson's "Charge of the Light Brigade" with this charge of the women upon the war sufferers. Her comparison is made all the more effective by the fact that the battle of Balaclava had just been fought when the nurses arrived and many of the wounded of the famous "six hundred" fell to their charge. The treaty of peace was signed in Paris March 30, 1856; on August 6, Florence Nightingale returned to England. Funds had already been gathered for a nurse's home, but it was not until 1859 that Florence Nightingale began the school. She advertised for candidates, and on June 24, 1860, fifteen probationers were admitted. They became the first lay nurses in the world's history and a new profession had been born. The first class of 13 was graduated in 1861. Nursing, Mrs. Andrews declares, is Florence Nightingale's greatest and most lasting monument, although she was instrumental in opening the whole world to the entrance of women. It was not until 1871 that Dr. Susan Dimock established the first nursing school in America. The closing years of Miss Nightingale's life?she never married?though she suffered much from illness, were active ones. She would not stop until many of the evils she had seen during the war were wiped out. She was instrumental in having a Royal Commission with four sub-commissions established. These Mrs. Andrews calls Miss Nightingale's four chicks. They were: 1. A sub-commission to put barracks and hospitals in sanitary order. GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 677 2. A commission to organize a statistical department. 3. A sub-commission to institute an army medical school. 4, A sub-commission to reconstruct the army medical department and other big things. From her bed she continued her work, directing many movements during the troubles in India although she did not leave England. She was also instrumental in starting a movement for rural hygiene. She wrote a few books, and many reports and papers. The best known of these is "Notes on Nursing." In 1907 King Edward offered her the Order of Merit. In August, 1910, she closed her career at the advanced age of 90. She was buried in Hampshire with her people, though before her death she was offered the privilege of resting in Westminster Abbey. She preferred to be with father and mother in the beautiful country where she had spent her childhood. One closes the book feeling that it is good to have known, even remotely, this woman who dedicated her life to a great cause, and won immortality through her service to mankind. Questions and Problems 1. What is the evidence that Mrs. Gaskell was right in her statement regarding Miss Nightingale? 2. Read the "Charge of the Light Brigade." 3. Why might it be said to be a questionable practice for a biographer to take a proposition to prove in the biography? 4. Has Mrs. Andrews, in a book like The Lost Commander, any good right to criticize Strachey so severely for being dishonest? 5. In what way did the work of Miss Nightingale differ from the work of the Relief Society? 6. Some one might describe a first-class modern hospital and point out differences between it and earlier ones, or even home nursing methods. LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in February) THE FIELD OF SOCIAL WORK Lesson 2. Poverty and Dependency A. The Extent and Causes of Poverty It is important to distinguish between poverty and destitution. Destitution is a state of absolute and utter want; poverty  is merely a relative scarcity of the means of subsistence. Poverty, therefore, is much more frequent than destitution. Because communities do not keep accurate statistics and there is no way of comparing one community with another, the amount of destitution and poverty in any country at a given time is almost impossible to determine. Political economists, at different times, have estimated the number of people in a state of poverty. Their estimates range all the way from one to ten per cent of the population, with five per cent as the median. This would mean that at any one time about five per cent of the entire population are receiving some sort of public or private assistance. There is no common agreement, either, as to the specific causes of poverty. The most reliable opinion on the subject holds that poverty, like disease and crime, is a uniform consequent of many different antecedents. That is to say, poverty is a symptom of social disease, just as a high temperature is a symptom of physical disease; and many totally different factors can produce it. Jamison B. Hurry, formerly Medical Officer at University College, Reading, England, has called our attention to the "vicious circle" characteristics of poverty: "In the ordinary course of economic law, the reaction provoked by a social disorder tends to arrest such disorder. For example, idleness is checked by indigence, crime by social ostracism, alcoholism by dyspepsia, insanitation by ill-health. By this natural process the social organism maintains itself in health. Where a Vicious Circle is present, the ordinary sequence is modified. The reactions which should be beneficent are maleficent and intensify the disorder. Poverty, one of the most important of social evils, is to some extent subject to the usual economic law, since it has sequela which render it disagreeable and therefore to be avoided. Unfortunately, however, there are other potent factors which aggravate in lieu of arresting the primary disorder, and cause poverty to become self-perpetuating. As Solomon pointed out many centuries ago: "The destruction of the poor is their poverty.' "' Typical examples of this "vicious circle" relationship are the following: Poverty?improper housing?ill health?unemployment?poverty. Poverty?improper food?malnutrition?low wages?poverty. Poverty?ignorance?inefficiency?poverty. Poverty?alcoholism?unemployment?poverty. Poverty?improvidence?borrowing?poverty. In a word, we may say that the causes of poverty are any and all circumstances that operate to deprive a person or a family of the necessaries for subsistence and efficiency. Chief among these, GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 679 are ill health, low mentality, unemployment, indolence, limited education, low wages, improvidence, physical and mental handicaps. B. The Care of Dependent Adults The oldest institution in English-speaking countries for the care of the pauper is the almshouse, or, as it is sometimes called, the "poor house" (in England it is still called the workhouse). This institution became firmly established under Queen Elizabeth, in the seventeenth century. Our Puritan and Pilgrim ancestors continued the pattern in this country, with the result that every American county either has an almshouse or makes an arrangement with a neighboring county to care for its indigent old men and old women. Originally, the almshouse was a ''catch-all'" for indigents of all sorts,?the insane, the unemployed, dependent children, the crippled, the blind. One by one these latter groups have been taken out of the almshouse, to be cared for in other ways, leaving only the homeless, indigent adult. Almshouses have little to commend them. They carry with them an unfortunate stigma which the inmates always resent. ?Over the hill to the poor house" is a phrase that suggests the nature of public opinion on the subject. The food, the lack of stimulating occupation, and the isolation from free society, are among the common objections to the place. In order to avoid the stigma of the "poor" house and at the same time to secure the advantages of congregate living, many religious groups?for example the Jews, the Lutherans, the Baptists,?provide homes for the aged of their own denomination. The stigma has been further removed from these institutions by requiring inmates to pay a small amount per month or at the time of admission, towards their upkeep. This plan of caring for helpless, indigent, old people has much to commend it. Institutional care for indigent adults becomes necessary only when such persons lack savings, a private income, or children who will care for them. In order to stem the tide of pauperism and to enable the aged to live in self-respect outside of the "poor" house, most modern states and nations have considered?and some have adopted?the old-age pension. Kelso, in The Science of Public Welfare, says: "All the important nations of Europe have legislated upon the subject of old age pensions. These with Australia, New Zealand in the East, and Argentina in the South, together with Canada, Alaska, and five of the United States, make up a grand total of thirty-one jurisdictions recognizing some form of old-age pension. Seven countries which have non-contributory pensions are mostly English speaking. They comprise a total population approximating 70,000,000. Fifteen nations require some form of contribution by the pensioner. These have a population totaling some 240,000,000."  Old-age pensions have not been popular in the United States. Arizona, in 1914, passed the first pension act and abolished the almshouse system. Unfortunately, the law was declared unconstitutional. Since that time Alaska, Nevada, Montana, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Utah, and a few other states have adopted old-age pension laws of one sort or another. At best, these laws are inadequate because the pension is too small and the age limit? usually sixty-five or seventy?is too high. As Kelso further says, "While the public is willing to succor the helpless out of sympathy as a private charity, they are not yet ready to pay out their subsistence to the improvident and other of the fraternity of the necessitous under some reasoned claim of right. It doesn't go down with the individualistic American people. Meantime the problem should be recognized for just what it is?the riddle of the empty stomach. Experience of decades, yes centuries, with the public poor shows beyond question that the only way to relieve indigence adequately from the point of view of the dependent, and safely from the point of view of society, is through friendly personal case-work, wielding a sympathy tempered always by justice." C. Care of Dependent Families Supplementing the almshouse?the system of "indoor" relief ?is the plan of money doles, supplies of food, clothing, coal, etc., called "'outdoor" relief. Monies for this service are, of course, secured through taxation. This system is objectionable because it permits of so much abuse, graft, and patronage. Yet it is far more economical when well administered than the almshouse system used exclusively. If careful case-work investigation is made of applications for relief, "outdoor" relief has much to commend it. The backbone of most private philanthropic work is what is called family welfare work, such as is administered by the Charity Organization Societies, Family Service Societies, Relief Societies, United Charities, etc., throughout the United States. Family welfare work is becoming less and less a matter of furnishing relief in money or in "kind" and more and more a matter of rehabilitation. It is in connection with this type of social work that the art of case-work is seen at its best. Private philanthropic societies are not restricted by law as to the kind and amount of help that might be given to their clients. In many of these societies an adequate budget is allowed for the families under care. In some societies, notably the Jewish, this service has even taken the form of setting up a tradesman or an artisan in a small business. D. The Care of Dependent Children Up until the beginning of this century the orphanage was the main institution for the care of dependent children in Anglo-American, GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 68! communities, In 1909, however, President Roosevelt called the famous White House Conference to consider the general problems of child welfare in America. At this time the consensus of opinion was decidedly against the orphanage as a place for dependent and delinquent children, The general principles concerning which there was substantial agreement among social workers at that time are the following: 1. Preservation of home ties wherever possible. '2. The paramount importance of preventive work. 3. The superiority of the foster home as a substitute for the natural home. - The adoption of the cottage plan for institutions, 5. The incorporation of child-caring agencies, 6. State inspection of the work of child-caring agencies. 7. 'Education in institutions as part of the public educational 8. The keeping of adequate records, 9. Physical care. 10. Co-operation among child-caring agencies, The beginning of the twentieth century saw also the introduction of the juvenile court movement in the United States-a movement that has spread to every state in the Union and to most civilized countries throughout the world The purpose and basic principle of the juvenile court is well stated in "A Standard Juvenile Court Law" published by the National Probation Association, 1928. "The purpose of this act is to secure for each child under its jurisdiction such care, guidance, and control, preferably in his own home, as will conduce to the child's welfare and the best interests of the state; and when such child is removed from his own family, to secure for him custody, care, and discipline as nearly as possible equivalent to that which should have ?been given by his parents," court. There the child is detained only until approved private boarding-homes can be found. The child is made a public ward, the State Board of Control becoming his legal guardian. On an average children remain only a few months. They receive good medical care and appropriate training in the common branches, manual training, and domestic science. Another type of public child-saving activity is the boarding and placing-out System, as it is conducted in Massachusetts, New  Jersey, Indiana. The Massachusetts Department of Public Welfare has extensive powers and duties in the care and custody of delinquent and dependent children. The system for dependent children is essentially one of supervision in approved boarding-homes. Another type of social work for dependent children is sometimes called the "mother's pension." This plan of allowing a widow with dependent children a sum of money each month in order that she might remain at home to look after her children, began in Illinois and Missouri in 1911. At the present time forty-two states and the District of Columbia have enacted mother's pension laws, or "aid to mothers" laws. A unique feature of this system of public care for dependent children is the fact that in about half the states the responsibility for administering these laws has been placed upon the local juvenile courts. This has had the advantage, in many places, at least, of minimizing the abuses that often accompany any system of outdoor relief. Questions for the Further Stimulation of Thought 1. How much destitution is there in your community? 2. How would you find out how much poverty exists in your community? 3. Is there an almshouse in your county? If so, what is the age, sex, nationality, religion, physical and mental health of its population? Is the food, clothing, recreation, medical attention, adequate? Have you ever visited this institution? If not, why not: 4. If there is no almshouse in your county, what arrangements do your County Commissioners make for the care of indigent adults? 5. Are there any private homes for the aged in your community? If so, under what auspices are they managed? What are the requirements for admission? 6. What are the arguments for and against old-age pensions? Is there an old-age pension in your state? What are its provisions? 7. What are the essential characteristics of case-work with dependent families? Do dependent families in your community get this sort of service? 8. What are the arguments for and against the orphanage? Why did the American Legion, following a careful study of the situation, decide recently to use the system of child-placing instead of institutions for the care of war veterans' dependents? 9. Is juvenile court work in your community administered according to the White House standards of 1909? 10. How much is spent on mother's pensions in your county? What is the average amount allotted to each widow? Are careful investigations made before pensions are granted? We all want to make more money? but when do we start? Better job?but when do we start? No one ever yet secured a worthwhile position without preparing for it?and nobody ever will. The way to earn training course in this school will increase your market value. Qualities? Pt L. D. S. Business College. U. S. Business College Machine Calculation || NAME -- ADDRESS Iron Economy Why buy unknown brands of sub-standard Irons when you can get a fully guaranteed HOTPOINT 6 LBS. HOUSEHOLD SIZE IRON FOR AS LITTLE AS More Value per Dollar; longer, better and more dependable Service. Our Guarantee back of every Iron we sell. Call in or phone us your order. Modern Electric Company Was. 2307 128 South State Electrical Gifts are appreciated for the continued service they Give. Gratitude Day by day more Food Buyers are patronizing our stores, showing their gratitude for having in their community, a fine, clean O. P. Skaggs System store where the highest quality merchandise can be bought at economy prices. O.P. SKAGGS. Efficient-Service System When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine COURSES: * Shorthand o, e Speedwriting; Bookkeeping Of course we all expect to get a promotion soon, or a We can think of lots of ways to use more money, and sometime we expect to have it. But when do we start? More money is to make yourself worth more. A business It takes backbone and the power of decision to start training. But what goal was ever achieved without these Your name on this ad will bring you complete details. Why not make a start by sending it in today? No obligation. "YOU CAN'T GO WRONG" THAT'S WHY WE SAY 'Buy Blue Pine Food Products'"' and if for any reason your purchase is not entirely satisfactory, go to your Grocer and he will refund your money. Scowcroft's BLUE PINE FOOD PRODUCTS The Western Farmer and His Home The West holds the reputation of having a showing in rural electrification that is the envy of eastern states. That means that in these rural homes the same comforts and conveniences may be enjoyed as in the larger towns and cities. Cooking, Refrigeration, Electric Water Heating, Washing, Ironing, and the ''thousand and one things' that women have to do in farm homes are now made pleasant incidents of the day where electricity does all your hard jobs. The farmer and his men now may do electrically, and all in shorter hours, the hard work of the farm that used to make it the hardest kind of labor. Our New Combination Rates Make it more profitable than ever to make a generous use of electrical appliances to take away the drudgery and make life happier for man and woman?who always want to do things they haven't time for or are too tired after a day's work if they cling to old fashioned methods. Call our nearest office and a representative will be pleased to call on you to discuss electrification as it pertains to your home or farm?there will be no obligation whatever on your part. Seven Times Champion of the World. Sent to you on Free Trial. Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Temple and Burial Clothes COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN World AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices Sent to you Prompt and Careful Attention To on Free Mail?Telephone?Telegraph Trial Orders. Open Daily, 9 a. M.?5 p. M. Ai  Complete Printing and Binding Service OFFICE and bank forms Ruling and book binding SPECIAL ATTENTION TO MAIL ORDERS. We offer special prices on binding Church Magazines. These volumes should be preserved as valuable additions to your library.? Write us about them. The Deseret News Press When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Utah Power & Light Co. Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 29 Richards Street Phone Wasatch 3286 Salt Lake City, Utah Salt Lake City Relief Society Women--- Attention | After sixteen years of service to the people, the BURIAL CLOTHES DEPARTMENT of the Relief Society takes this opportunity of expressing appreciation to you for your co-operation and patronage, which has contributed to the growth and stability of the Department. The Presidency of the Church, realizing the needs of the people, authorized the establishment of the Department in 1913. Since that time it has endeavored to serve the people. The Burial Clothes Department desires to announce that it has on hand a large and complete stock of temple and burial clothing in a variety of materials. There are suits for men and women, and burial clothing for children, including tailored suits for small boys. We give prompt and careful attention to mail, telephone and telegraph orders, and prepay postage and express charges. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine WASATCH 1300 | RELIEF SOCTIETY ? ARE YOUR RELIEF SOCIETY WORKERS WELCOME? Relief SocietyJust what their visits would mean to your family should the husband and father be taken from you or be totally disabled? Life Insurance protection relieves the Relief Society of their greatest task?-The Financing of the Widow's Family. Don't Shirk Meeting This Issue FACE to FACE Put your house in order by procuring sufficient Life Insurance to carry on in case you are unable to carry on. Beneficial Insurance For The Entire Family (Age 1 Day to 65 Years) Insurance is one of the highest type investments if you live or if you die or are disabled. The Big Home Company Gives You Participating Insurance At Low Non Participating Rates All Beneficial Policyholders share in the net earnings Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home Office, Vermont Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Any Beneficial Representative Will Give You Full Details When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Heber J. Grant, Pres. E. T. Ralphs, Gen. Mgr.