THE HOLY FAMILY BY MURILLO

XVI DECEMBER, 1929 No. 12
A Day in a Jewish Village in Russia By Franklin S. Harris, President, Brigham Young University
I should like to have you go with me for a day to a Jewish village in southwest Russia in what is known as the Ukraine. We shall take the evening train at Moscow. After traveling southwest for about twenty-four hours, we pass through the beautiful city of Kiev, situated on a high bank overlooking the Dnieper river. Kiev has one of the most interesting histories of any city in Europe, but that is another story. The village that we are to visit is further on southwest. In the study which I am making as a member of a Commission for planning the colonization of the Jewish people of Russia, it is desirable to get a clear insight into the inner life of the Jewish people, hence the visit to many of the places where they are living. The village to which I am taking you is one of the many places examined by the members of our commission.
This particular village was visited by Mr. L and me. He was born there and has many relatives living in the vicinity, and has an intimate knowledge of the conditions. The through train on which we were riding did not stop at this village, so we had to go on to the next one, where, at three o'clock in the morning, we were met by two of Mr. L's brothers and a number of relatives. Waiting till nearly five, we took the local train back to the village. A large group of Mr. L's relatives was at the station to meet us. It may be needless to say that there are no sidewalks or pavements in a village of this kind, and the black, heavy soil makes first-class mud. Mr. L and I were put into the one waiting Isvostchik, a one-horse, buggy-like conveyance used all over Russia, and were taken to the house of one of the brothers, while the others trailed after us through the mud. After the greetings, we had to partake of refreshments; then came visiting between Mr. L and his relatives whom he had not seen for more than two years. There were brothers and brothers-in-law, cousins, and cousins-in-law, and all the children, making up about thirty in all. As everywhere in Russia this household was very much crowded. The theory at the present time in this country is that all houses belong to the Government, which assigns on the average about one room to the family; but since this family had a number of branches and many children, four rooms were assigned to it.
During the day Yiddish was the principal language spoken. Occasionally when a non-Jewish person came to visit us, Russian was used. I knew very little of the latter language, but by using German I could get along in a fairly satisfactory way with the Jewish people, and particularly well with the young people, since they speak more clearly than older ones. Yiddish has German as its foundation, but has developed into a separate language using the Hebrew alphabet. While Mr. L visited the older relatives, I found myself constantly surrounded by a group of young people. There were two young ladies fifteen or sixteen years old and a boy about twelve who seemed to be contesting for places near me. In my more optimistic moments I assumed that they came to me because they liked me, while during periods of pessimism I decided that my popularity may have resulted from the fact that they wanted to hear me speak German, or to hear me tell about America, or to examine some of my strange personal effects, such as a
 
A BUSINESS STREET IN A JEWISH RUSSIAN VILLAGE
pencil that had ink in it. Some of them seem never to have seen a fountain pen before. Whatever the cause may have been, I was very much the center of a group. I preferred to look at the young ladies, but the boy was better to talk to.
There was a brother-in-law who was a bookkeeper, and one who was a worker in a poultry packing establishment; there was a nephew who was a photographer and a brother who had a job that classed him as one of the elect workers. There was an older brother who had been broken by the vicissitudes of revolution and persecution; then there were the wives of all of these and the children. All in all, they were very much like the families we might find in any of our smaller towns in Utah. Certainly they were well informed and as intelligent on general matters as we ordinarily encounter. The limitations in household devices and equipment growing out of raids and persecutions left much to be desired in the way of arrangement of meals and methods of serving. They had one distinct luxury in the house, however?a wash stand, with a tank behind the mirror into which the water was poured so that it could run out of the tap into the wash basin and then be drained into a bucket below?a semblance of modern convenience which I was glad to use.
After breakfast, while the family visited, I took a half hour's nap since we had been up practically all of the previous night making connections and seeing the other part of our delegation get off at their various villages. The beds, somewhat similar to those found in Germany, are interesting. They are feather beds with a large feather pillow which extends nearly to the middle of the bed. The covering is a sort of light feather bed inclosed in white linen, which can be changed in place of changing the sheet.
During the middle of the forenoon the clouds cleared away and the sun came out, so we took a trip through the village. On the main street we saw rows of peasant women, displaying their products to all who passed. They had brought in their eggs and other wares and were lined up along the street in the mud. There were dozens of these street vendors with everything from cloth to live chickens for sale. This street had about ten feet along the middle paved with cobble rocks. Along this pavement a constant stream of peasants passed in their little low-wheeled wagons pulled by tiny ponies. There were groups of people standing about talking, and everywhere curious eyes were turned toward us and our photographic apparatus. Later, during the afternoon, we went out with Mr. L's moving picture machine. Almost the whole village followed to watch the process of taking a moving picture. So great was the commotion that the local police officials took us in and made us show our identification papers and explain what we were doing there, why we should be taking a moving picture, and a lot of other questions. We finally answered all of their inquiries and they released us. The local photographer wished to take our pictures, copies of which he said he would send to us. When we went into the front room studio the curious crowds so filled the door and jammed the windows that he had to take us out into the back yard, herding off the crowd while he took our pictures.
In the crowd that passes along the street, most of the women are in their bare feet, many of them carrying heavy loads, while some have water in two buckets suspended from a pole over the shoulders. Many are in rags. As at the Wailing Wall in Jerusalem, we see along the way many a Jewish brother with long whiskers. Most of the young people, however, are wearing Russian costumes, as if they were courting the favor of the Government by throwing off the ancient costumes. Most of the houses are built of a sort of adobe or cheap brick and are plastered with mud, some of them whitewashed. Although some houses have tile roofs, many are covered with rye straw about a foot thick. On every hand there is evidence of poverty. If anyone had means he would not display it in Russia, because no worse title can be applied to one than to be called "bourgeoise," and the Government taxes very heavily all who have more than the average of wealth.
During the afternoon it rained again, so we returned to the house, where anti-Jewish persecutions of previous years were recounted. One of the men told how a cousin, who was a dentist, had been killed by Russian peasants whom he had previously served free; but during these pogroms, which are outbursts of race hatred, no one seems to escape. During the civil war following the withdrawal of Russia from the World War there were 2,500 pogroms in 900 separate cities and towns, some places suffering as high as three, four, and five such outbreaks; certain towns were completely wiped out, men, women, and children being killed. There were 200,000 orphans left and twenty per cent of the women were left widows. The statement went abroad that all the trouble of the Russians came from the Jews and the latter were massacred by the thousands. The village in which we are visiting has seen many of these raids. The recital of the story, with the shedding of many tears, brought to my mind Haun's Mill, Nauvoo, and Carthage. The Jewish persecution in Russia is such a manifestation. With the coming of the new regime, an attempt is made to eliminate all race persecution and to allow each people to develop its own culture. The people in the villages, however, have vivid memories and are in constant fear that something may arise to bring on a repetition of past atrocities. With the coming out of the sun we got into one of the curious wagons and rode to a nearby peasant village. We inspected the local school in a brick building as modern as any such buildings in those parts. The teacher showed us the semblance of a laboratory; and while he was very proud of the equipment, we would consider it primitive, It is, however, a step in the right direction; and  though all could not be accommodated in the school with its two teachers, there is hope for a new day in Russia due to the increased interest in education. It must be said to the credit of the Jewish people that they are easily the best educated group in Eastern Europe. Throughout the ages, in spite of persecution and poverty, they have maintained their interest in education. This is probably one of the chief reasons why they have been able to survive in the presence of hostile associates. They have been more capable than the other peoples, and have got along in spite of adversity. Our train did not! Eave until three the next morning, but the family would not go to bed; to the last child all insisted on staying up until our train left. I begged for an opportunity to take a nap about one o'clock, but was awakened more than an hour before the train left, so that I would be sure to be ready and so that there would be a little more visiting. Though most of these A Girl BELONGING TO THE FAMILY THAT PRESIDENT Harris VISITED A DAY IN A JEWISH VILLAGE 639 people had been up twenty-four hours, none of them went to bed, contenting themselves with little naps. When it came time to go, we all marched in a procession through the mud. Every child joined the company. One of the young ladies took hold of my arm on one side and a young man on the other, so that I should not slip in the mud. When we reached the station twenty minutes before the train was due, we found dozens of people sleeping around on the floor just as they do in all stations in Russia. At the whistle of the train we said good-bye all around two or three times and went out and said good-bye again at the car steps; then I reached out through the car window and shook hands with everyone as a final farewell. In order to show their respect two of the men went with us on the train to the next station and when they left, each of them gave me a good-bye kiss on the cheek. Even though I had known these Jewish people only one day I seemed very near to them; they were like old friends. I left with a greater determination than ever that the Commission which I represented would do everything possible to alleviate their suffering and to give these good people an opportunity to live happy lives unmolested by hostile neighbors and freed from the abject poverty which is now their portion.