Evergreen By Elsie Talmage Brandley The little pink area on the map which indicates the relative position of British Columbia is as unenlightening as the tiny black dot denoting the town of New Michell. A casual glance at the black dot set so carelessly down upon the pink expanse discovers nothing except that the dot is perhaps as small as any dot can be and still retain its standing as a full-fledged dot. A less casual glance, one colored with a bit of imagination, might lead to the additional conclusion that certainly life in such a place must be unendurably dull, and that a person was favored of fate if his path on the map of life lay along a route of more conspicuous dots. But that conclusion would have been reached before one had heard the story Ruth Mason had to tell of the joy she had found in New Michell. After that the thing would assume different proportions, perhaps. Ruth had lived the whole of her twenty years in Oregon, where her father operated a large saw and planing mill inherited from his father. The Masons had been known in the surrounding counties as the "lumber people" ever since the first of the name had come west for gold. Finding instead the glory of the Oregon pines, they settled down to live and work among them. Ruth's earliest recollections dealt with trips on her father's back across the little ravine between the large, comfortable log home and the roaring hungry mill, which they pretended was a giant who must be given an uninterrupted diet of choice pine-morsels. The spicy aroma of the woods was her first smell-memory, and she always felt that the fulness of life's beauty filled her heart as the fragrance of the pines filled her nostrils; and the combination had resulted in an unusually fine and contented existence. Her little girlhood had known nothing of strife, or sorrow. The woods, the sky, the flowers, her books, family, and curly hair seemed all that any girl could ask of the gods, and life abundant flowed through the veins of her. She exulted, she scintillated; and withal she radiated serenity. "Funny about Ruth Mason," the few neighbors of the locality would say. "She never was what you might call pretty, with that nose; but there's something about her face you like to look at." Which was quite true. There was a vivacity, a joyousness, about the girl which made one feel that a light was burning steadily and brightly behind the gray eyes. Her face, with its crown of wavy copper hair, was one of those that in passing left the impression that at least in one girl's heart all was right and good. She was just twenty when she met Larry Roberts?tall, genial EVERGREEN 641 Larry, who had come in the capacity of assistant manager of the New Mighell Lumber Company to learn something of a new planing mill which the Mason people had installed. The planing machine amounted to almost nothing at all, but the trip was epoch making, for the hour that Ruth turned the gray tranquility of her eyes upon Larry, he was a changed man. In his heart he found that he had been unconsciously harboring an abstract image of the girl for whom he was seeking?how else could he account for the sudden realization that at last she was found? She was the coming true of dreams long dreamed, and Larry was fairly breathless with the wonder of it all. It was all settled before he went back. They were married in September, standing in a grove of the pines they both loved, and with the autumn sunshine sifting through the boughs to set its seal of benediction on the two heads bowed in a flood of wonder and. Incredible gratitude. Then came the haste to get everything ready to catch the train at the little station and start off for the new place they were to call home. "Larry, what fun to eat at these darling little white tables! Don't you love the cool clink of the ice when the car rocks a little and sways the dishes to one side?" "You're a sweet thing, Ruth. Everything is fun to you, isn't it?" "No, Larry; some things are much more than fun. This trip is. It's glorious, heart-crushing, unbelievable." And the evenings, looking out at the passing landscape as it grew more and more shadowy in the deepening dusk, with here and there a light shining out from a little cabin, were almost unbearably sweet. "Think you'll be able to stand it way off from your people, in a little house like that one?' Larry would whisper. "Stand it, Larry? I only wonder how I've stood it this long anywhere else." "Ruth, I want to make you happy. No, I can't do that, for you are so happy already; but please God, I'll keep you happy, dear." Tears from the depths of a new-found spring of joy welled up in her voice. "Oh, Larry," was all she really said, but Larry heard much more. There could be volumes written about the home-coming, and getting settled in a little house o' dreams; but all such unimportant details must be left out to make room for Goldie McGee. Goldie was so called according to that unfathomable rule of boys which decrees that a nickname shall imply something which the nicknamed is not. Goldie McGee was as ungold as can well be imagined, with his black, part-defying hair cut square above  heavy black eyebrows, which in turn were above eyes too dark to be expressive. Swarthy skin, a very husky voice, and perpetually dirty hands all combined to produce the effect of unqualified darkness, which inevitably resulted in the name of Goldie. If there was anything golden about the boy, it was his smile, about which there hovered a suggestion of spirituality almost incongruous with the rest of him. And it was his smile that won Ruth. She saw him first one day in late October, when the Indian summer sun had lured her out of doors to putter around, as she called it. The immaculate little cabin was in spotless order, and as near heaven as an earthly habitation can be?without flowers. The lateness of the season had precluded the raising of anything outside, but Ruth's passionate love of growing things had sent her in search of something she might transplant into boxes, to give the finishing touch of hominess to the place. Her quest had been successful?ferns and moss and vines had all been discovered, and left where they were until such time as a window box would be ready to receive them. A long, narrow box from the store gave perfect satisfaction as to size and shape, and, with an ease born of long experience, she set to work to cover the outside with bark, thus transforming a once plain box into a rustic fernery. It was a touch of home, for play-hours all Ruth's life had been closely associated with chairs and little cupboards covered in just such a fashion. This particular autumn day was so lovely that it fairly hurt her who, sensitive always to the beauty of nature, was now, loving and loved, unusually responsive to it. The wooded hills, rising in sharp relief against the glow of the sky, pressed on her soul with a sudden ache. She felt that she could endure nothing more perfect?somewhere in the back of her head she was going over and over some lines she had read once?"Let fall no burning leaf; dear Lord, let no bird call. Let fall no burning leaf; dear Lord, let no bird call." No, that was not quite right. There was no "dear Lord" in. The poem, but it didn't matter. She wanted a "dear Lord" in it anyway. Her wealth of vitality was expressing itself by means of vicious choppings and hammerings as she prepared the strips of bark for their destined places on the fernery. The violence of the exercise had brought a flush to her cheeks and a glow to her eyes. The thrill of activity shot through her whole being, and with red lower lip caught between rows of even white teeth she looked like the spirit of the autumn tide. And thus, Goldie McGee, coming over to borrow the wrench, came upon Ruth. Involuntarily he stopped short to stare. Then "If you ain't a peach. You sure are. If you ain't a winner," he EVERGREEN 643 exclaimed; and the earnestness of his tribute made up for any possible lapse in grammar. Ruth's first reaction was one of complete astonishment, followed so quickly by an appreciation of the boy's spontaneity that she beamed an unmistakable welcome, and held out her hand. "You must be Goldie McGee. Larry has told me about you. Won't you come in?" He accepted her invitation readily, with none of the adolescent awkwardness she feared might follow such an outburst. Goldie had seen a new kind of woman-person; one who could hammer things, and from the way she was biting her lip, the boy knew that the hammering was counting for something. He said so. "You don't act like most girls when you hammer. Ma can't hit anything when she tries, and neither can Sis, and they get awful mad cause I laugh. What you makin'?" "A fern box, so I can have things that grow in the house all winter. It seems to me that spring is nearer if there is greenery in the window. Don't you think so?" "I dunno. Never tried it. But I believe I could nail some ? bark onto that there box." "You can, I'm sure. There is a piece all cut to fit. Go ahead." Goldie went ahead, and nailed on piece after piece of the rough covering, finding in the occupation a stimulation quite new to his experience. Funny how it made him feel. No use being mean, and knocking good things to pieces when it was just as much fun to fasten bits of wood together that weren't any good, and make something decent out of them. "Wish I'd thought of this long ago. Ma would too, I bet. She hates me to be whittlin' around everywhere, but I can't seem to help doin' it, somehow." Ruth felt a pang of yearning toward Goldie. Jn his mobile face she read a little of the satisfaction he was finding in this simple outlet for energy which he had been led to regard as destructive... The making of things! The joy of it! The thrill of it! She loved the boy already. Then, after awhile, "Goldie, let's go inside; shall we? We don't need to finish the box today, you know, and I've a whole jar of spice and raisin cookies in the house, just aching to be eaten by a boy of your size." "Cookies?" "Yes, I should say cookies. Great big ones. Larry is a perfect baby over them, so I always have far too many for just the two of us." An hour later there were not too many cookies for anyone. Goldie had done his best, which, in that particular respect, was very good,  "Will you have just one more, Goldie?" Ruth asked him as he was about to depart. "I could chew one, maybe, but I sure couldn't swallow it, Mrs. ?Miss?" "Miss Ruth is my name, Goldie," she helped him out. 'Sounds kinda like you look. Now I gotta go." "Will you come again tomorrow? I need lots of help with my fern box." "Sure will. G'bye, Miss Ruth." Goldie forgot the wrench he had come for. When he came the next day his exuberance had moderated, but as he got well into the work at hand it partially returned. "Miss Ruth, what d'ye know about it?Ma wasn't a bit struck on havin' me come over here. She said the craziest things, that I didn't get at all." "I'm sorry, Goldie. Why didn't she want you to come?" "Dunno. She and Sis looked at each other, and said somethin' about the kind of a girl who'd take another girl's fella away from her, or somethin' like that." "Did she mean me, Goldie? Did I take another girl's fellow? I didn't know it, if I did." "How could you know it when you didn't do it? Larry wasn't never Sis's fella. She was just hopin' he would be, was all. He used to come over to supper once in awhile, and then play checkers with me or Dad; and Sis kinda thought he was there to see her, but he wasn't. 'nd Ma crocheted a bedspread for Sis's box that took her about a year, and it made her sore when Sis didn't need it. See?" "But, Goldie, if your mother really doesn't want you to come over here, perhaps you hadn't better come. I don't want her to?" "Naw, she just sputtered a bit, cause that's her way. She's darn glad to have me cuttin' on your back porch instead of her kitchen floor." So the matter rested there. Ruth could not bring herself to send the boy away, for into the interesting occupation he had discovered, he put an intensity that fairly frightened her. No wonder he had been regarded by neighbors as something of a terror. Poor kid, with nothing given him as an outlet for the surplus steam. He was the best boy in the world. At length the fern box was finished, and the two, now quite inseparable outside of school hours, took a tramp into the woods for the greenery. It was a brisk day in early November, with a purplish haze casting a mysterious veil over everything, and the tang of the autumn woods permeating every fibre of them with its crispness. It was a day of heart-wrenching loveliness, and Goldie's response to it all was touching. The birds, the river, the clouds in their billowy whiteness, all seemed to speak to him with EVERGREEN 645 voices he understood best, and not once did he speak to his companion, or she to him; and yet that trip was to both, a cementing of their friendship. Within a day or two after that, the job was done, and Goldie appeared to be so lost without it that Ruth hastened to think up something else. "Christmas will be here soon, Goldie. How would you like to make a window box for your mother, and surprise her?" "Think she'd like it? She thought it was kinda nutty to be tinkerin' so long on yours." "Oh, I'm sure she would like it, Goldie. Presents we make for people are always far nicer than any other kind. And perhaps she doesn't know how lovely a thing it is to have something green in the house when everything outside is icebound. Why, Goldie, to watch the new little fern tendrils unroll, and know that you yourself have watered and cared for them, gives a joy I can't put into words." Goldie caught her spirit. "Kinda nice to know you were keepin' the little rascals from freezin' to death, too." "That's exactly what I mean, Goldie. It is a very pleasant thing to know you have helped some helpless thing. Try to remember that always, will you?" "Veh," They set to work on the second box, and the pleasant congeniality of the hours spent with the boy was to Ruth beautiful. She loved his blunt, untactful way of speaking out the thing that was in his mind. Often some observation of his amazed her with its maturity of viewpoint; and she knew, with the humility that comes with such a realization, that she listened to the thoughts of a soul that was far, far older than the youthful little body harboring it. Manliness was cropping out, unformed, and scarcely understood, but it was an absorbing study. The work on the box went forward at about the same rate of speed as the cookies went inward. Ruth devoted three mornings each week to the preparation of the afternoon refreshments; for whereas Larry's cookie longings were easily appeased by a weekly cookie-bake, Goldie was not so temperate. As a measure of gastric precaution, Ruth took to using less sugar and spice, but it lessened the consumption not a whit. Sometimes talkative, and sometimes thoughtfully silent, Goldie's hands were always busy and his jaws kept pace. "Wish Mom knew how to make these cookies, and would do it.' he said once. "I told: her I bet you'd teach her, but she acted as though she never heard a word I said. Not that it matters much, 'cause I eat so many over here that I couldn't get away with another if our whole house was full of 'em."  Ruth smiled at him; and he smiled back. They were good friends, these two. Three days before Christmas the box was done, and a thing of loveliness it was. Instead of the broad slabs of bark, they had covered this box with small, evenly matched twigs from the pine boughs, and a little design had been worked out on each side. Exhilarated with the success he had achieved, Goldie had been fired further, and had worked out a Christmas greeting on a board a foot square, and adorned with somewhat crooked letters whittled from sticks and put together to form the hearty, if uneven message, "Merry Xmas, to Mom, from Goldie." His delight knew no bounds. It was great, this making things for people, when they hadn't even asked you if you would. He could hardly wait for Christmas, to see what Mom would think about it all. It was too late for ferns; they had been frozen for over a month. But Ruth had decided to spare half of hers to make the gift complete. That was to be her Christmas surprise for Goldie. But she had reckoned without the boy. The morning before Christmas, he came over all bundled up in his warmest coat and mitts. He was jubilant over something. "Miss Ruth, I've had the best idear. It happened sometime in the night, I guess, for I found it in my head when TI woke up." "Fine, Goldie. Hurry and tell me what it is. From the way you look, it must be something perfectly scrumptious." "It's that I've thought of a way to get plants for the box for Mom's Christmas gift. Its the evergreens upon the south Galloway Mountain. They never freeze, and they'd be just as pretty as ferns, wouldn't they? Green, and everything." "What a perfectly lovely plan, Goldie. How did you ever come to think out anything so great? I call it downright inspiration." Ruth's enthusiasm was not feigned, and the lad glowed under her commendation. "Guess she'd like it better, all right, if it had some plants in it, wouldn't she?" "Will you be gone long, Goldie?" "No, it's not so far. I'll easy get up and back before dark." "Here, take a pocketful of cookies along with you. Take every pocket you have full, and I will have some nice hot soup ready for you when you get back." In a moment the boy was gone, and in her mind Ruth tried to follow him in his pilgrimage. There was something about the thought of him, away upon the white, lonely mountainside that caught her by the throat. He was such a game little chap. She hoped he managed his trip nicely, and wasn't disappointed in his search. EVERGREEN 647 Larry came in from the mills about three for his lunch, and found an almost tearful wife. '"'What's the matter, Honey?" He was all solicitude. "Oh, nothing, Larry, only of course it is the first Christmas away from home, and I think I must be just a teeny bit homesick." "Where's Goldie? I've sorta been depending on him to keep you company these busy days." 'Maybe that is one thing I'm worried about. He is away upon the South Galloway Mountain after evergreens, and it seems so cold and lonesome to think of him alone up there. After he gets back we'll be so busy getting his gift for his mother ready that I'll be all fine again." "That's good, Ruth, for I'll be pretty late at the mill tonight. The paymaster went home for the holidays,-and I have to stay and pay off the men." "How late will you be, Larry? Not too late to fill our stockings, I hope." "Fill our stockings! I never filled stockings in my life. What makes you think I'll know how the thing is done?" "Don't you know, Larry Roberts, that when a man asks a girl to marry him, he virtually promises to fill stockings every Christmas from then on?" "Still a bit of a kid, aren't you, Ruthie? Well, you can count on me. Hang up the very longest hosiery you own, and I'll surprise you." Ruth's thoughts kept going back to Goldie. "Have we ever been upon the mountain where Goldie is, Larry? Perhaps I wouldn't feel quite so worried about him if I knew just what he was doing." "We haven't been as far as the evergreen, but we went along the trail on that very first hike we took after coming here. Remember?" "Do I? Could I ever forget? I'm so glad you told me, for now I can picture the boy on his quest. And come home as soon as you can, won't you, Santa Claus?" "You bet I will," and with a quick kiss Larry was gone. The short afternoon was gone, and the chill of the mountain evening had settled down before it seemed possible. The sound of steps on the back porch brought Ruth's heart into her throat, from relief. She hadn't realized how concerned she had been until the moment when the concern was ended. When she opened the door, she faced Goldie's mother. "Well, Mrs. McGee, I'm so glad to see you. Come in." The warmth in the girl's voice gradually faded before the relentless unfriendliness of the other. "Where's Goldie McGee?"  "T think he'll be back here any instant. He told you where he was going, didn't he?" "He told me he was going up on the mountain on an errand. A great one you are, sendin' a kid off on a wild goose chase the day before Christmas. I've got forty chores for him to do." "I'm sorry, Mrs. McGee. Truly I am. It was thoughtless of us, but he was so anxious to?" "Well, it don't matter. I thought this was a good chance, anyhow, to come over and speak my mind to you. About Goldie, of course. I'm good and sick of the way he spends his time over here?never home to chop his wood, never hungry at mealtimes because he's stuffed full of your sickening cookies?not satisfied with anything me or 'Si does for him, because he thinks you can do it better." "But Mrs. Mice, I haven't known I was making him discontented. I haven't purposely?"' "No, I guess not. But you might have known, if you'd taken the trouble to think. Anybody could get'a kid away from his mother if she went at it the way you have." "You are tired tonight, Mrs. McGee. I'm sorry that Goldie went away today and left you so much to do. If I have done anything to hurt you, I beg your pardon, and I'll be more careful in the future. I have been lonely, and Goldie was friendly to me? a stranger. The boy needed something to keep him busy, and I have tried to help him. There has been no thought of anything disloyal to you." Mrs. McGee was unconvinced. "Don't you think I have enough work at home to keep him busy?me with no other boy to help? But-you get him. Over here and let him whittle everything to pieces, so's he'll feel that home ain't home to him no longer. And now its come to your sendin' him goose-chasin' after heaven knows what nonsense for you, and its dark as a pocket, and him mebbe lost on that Galloway slope. Might stay there and freeze to death for a Christmas gift to me. How'd you like that?" Ruth's throat felt dry, and there was a tingling back of her eyelids. The thought of danger had never occurred to her. Goldie was such a little Gypsy that he knew every step of the trails for miles around?but what if he had lost his way? What if he were hurt? Larry would be very late, he had said. The flashlight was bright?she would go in search. Slipping into the next room without a word, she put on her warmest coat, gloves, and stout overshoes. Passing back through the kitchen, she secured the searchlight from the drawer, and with only a brief "I'll try to find Goldie for you," she was out in the crisp chill of the winter night. The big sled Larry used for hauling. EVERGREEN 649 fire-logs was against the porch, and this she dragged along behind her. In her heart was a little quiet prayer. "Please don't let sorrow come to us this Christmas Eve. Please, please lead me to Goldie." All along the way she tried to imagine how she would feel as she came back. If only she found the burden she sought. And if only it were not too limp and white and still a burden. As she walked rapidly down the road, she heard her name called. Mrs. McGee getting panic-stricken, no doubt. Anyway, there was no time to stop. Moments might 'be too precious. A short way up the slope' Ruth had to moderate her speed. The incline was steep, and as the moon passed behind a dense cloud-bank, she realized how dark and uncharted was the way, and began to wonder at her folly in attempting a solitary search in the blackness of the night. If only some sign might be given her. If only a single ray of hope might gleam more brightly within her heart. - Just then the clouds drifted apart, and from out their midst shone one bright, bright star, and to the frightened girl it might have been that glorious star that shone so fair another Christmas Eve, in Bethlehem. Courageously she renewed her climb, flashing the light to right and left of the path and calling at intervals, "Goldie! Yoohoo! Goldie!" And after about an hour which had seemed endless to her, when hope was waning, and the star had hidden itself in the clouds again, she heard the faint reply, "Yoo-hoo!" With joy pounding through her being, and forgetting the weariness and despair, she sped onward, calling once or twice, but saving her strength for the further physical effort which lay ahead. She came upon the boy suddenly, lying in the snow. One foot was caught in a gnarled root and his arms were full to overflowing of evergreen. Ruth dropped to her knees with an ecstatic little sob of relief and gratitude. "Goldie, old boy, are you hurt? Are you frozen? Oh, I'm so glad, so glad to have found you." "Hello. No, I don't believe I'm froze, but it'd be pretty chilly by mornin' I reckon." "Have you been lying here long, Goldie?" "Dunno just how long. Got my foot caught in something, and couldn't git around to git it Joose, somehow." Untangling him from the binding root was a matter of only a few moments. It was hard to tell how seriously his foot was injured, though the swelling was ugly enough to indicate something amiss. Ruth arranged the sled-rope in such a way as to make a pair of reins by which she could guide the sled from behind, and managed to get Goldie settled in a fairly comfortable position, with the evergreen held tight. As they began the difficult  descent, Goldie was heard to murmur happily, "If you ain't a peach! You sure are a peach." Getting down was a slow and very difficult process. The hill was steeper even than it had seemed in the climbing, and the dead weight of the boy carried the sled forward too fast, so that the strain on the girl was terrific. The blood pounded in her temples until it seemed that they would burst, and the ropes cut into her hands and burned with increasing pain. How long the trail! How much more of it could she endure? The way stretched on ahead, down and down, without the lights of the town even discernible. Goldie, weary and happy was fitfully sleeping, jerking out of his delicious drowsiness whenever an especially sharp bump was negotiated, then drifting back into a doze again. It began to snow, softly and soothingly, for a white Christmas. Ruth was only half conscious of the fact, for now a numbness had begun to creep over her, and a dullness into her brain. She felt as though she were a machine, going on and on, knowing that before long a cog would slip, and the whole engine stop. But no cog slipped, even though the hammering in every vein grew louder, and the throbbing pain more throbbing. It was almost unbearable, but through it all was the half-memory of another Christmas journey, when a woman, no doubt in pain, had made a long, hard trip, and had not faltered. Mary, whose little lad, born that night, had given the whole world all that it knew of love and service. Mary had endured. Ruth, too, could endure. And thus thinking hazily, almost past the awareness of her physical anguish, she tugged away at the ropes, and guided the sled on down the Galloway hill, safe into the flat east of the home road. It was over soon. Larry, having come in and found where she had gone, had already started up the road. Meeting the travelers, he picked Ruth up and carried her the rest of the way, with the rope caught over his arm to drag the sled and Goldie along behind. The kitchen door of the little home stood open, warmth and light streaming out a glad welcome. Mrs. McGee, her face streaming with tears, was standing back with pride warring with contrition for supremacy on her face. The sight of Ruth, white-faced and exhausted, melted the rancor and envy she had nourished, and in a flood of relief and shame, she dropped down beside the couch on which Larry had laid his wife, and burst into a confused babble. "Miss Ruth, can you ever forgive me, dearie? Can you ever forget what a horrible old woman said to you? To think you'd risk your own life to go out after my boy, and him gone to get me a present. I found the blessed message he whittled for me?and me sendin' you out with the bitter words and feelin' I did." EVERGREEN., 651 Ruth's answer was a wan smile, but one of complete forgiveness and understanding. Goldie, looking in amazement from one to the other, could scarcely comprehend what was going on. Something had happened. Something wonderful. His mother was looking at Miss Ruth as though she, liked her, and Miss Ruth was as glad looking as though she had already opened her Christmas mail. And right there in the middle of the room was standing the plant box for his mother?and she was seeing it before Christmas. "Aw shucks, Mom, this was supposed to surprise you tomorrow. That's what I went up on the mountain for?to get the evergreen. How'd you happen to come over here on Christmas Eve anyhow, and spoil the surprise?" Goldie McGee's mother turned on him a new look?and her face was suffused with a light he had never seen there before. "Why, Son, I came over fer two or three things, I s'pose. First I want to ask Miss Ruth if she'll accept a crocheted bedspread fer a Christmas gift; and then besides, I want to git the recipe fer the cookies you like so well." Goldie felt an electric shock go through him. Something had happened, sure enough, to show him that his mother did care about him after all. Words struggled for utterance, and then came forth incoherently. "Why, Mom, I didn't know you could be so pretty. If you ain't a peach! You sure are. And if I ain't glad I got you the evergreen! I sure am!" And the bells in the little town began to chime twelve, ushering in the beginning of Christmas Day.