[WomansExponent | Vol7 | 1878 | Unknown | Issue: 14 | Title: HYGIENIC NOTES. | Author: Unknown]

HYGIENIC NOTES.

	What an English Physician says About the
Properties of Wild Sage:
	As I was leaving home to fill
my mission in this country, I met Mrs. M. J.
Coray, who requested me to have a bottle of "wild
sage oil" tested by some of the experts of the
country. Being acquainted with the eminent Dr.
Skelton, of Bradford, I submitted a sample for
his analysis and testation; and in a letter to
me received the following:
	"What the chemical constituents of the oil are,
I cannot tell you; its medical properties, however
are stimulant, diaphoretic (power to increase pers-
piration) and expectorant, (tending to promote
discharges from the lungs or throat.) It is also a
good emmenagogue. It acts especially upon the
throat in all its various inflammatory conditions,
whether of the tonsil fauces asphyxia, or laryn-
gitis, it is equally useful. I have tried it in the
cases named, and have found it invaluable."
		Thomas Child
36 Clarence St., Bedford, England, Oct. 8th, 1878.


GEORGE HENRY LEWES, the philosopher,
and husband of George Eliot, is dead.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FIRST QUARTERLY Meeting of Primary As
sociation of Farmington, held Dec. 7th, at two
o'clock p.m. We were honored with the pres-
ence of Sisters Eliza R. Snow, Mary Schettler
and Ellen S. Clawson of Salt Lake City. Mrs.
Nancy A. Clark, Superintendent of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Davis Co., Mrs. Hortensia Leonard,
President of the Relief Society of Farmington,
and a number of the parents of the children
were also present. Of the brethren, Bro.
Christensen and Bro. James Loynd, organist.
We had a very good time, although the
weather was inclined to be stormy. After
singing, prayer, and call of roll, the Quarterly
Report was read by the Secretary, Miss S. E.
Richards.
	Report: The Primary Mutual Improvement
Association of Farmington was organized Aug.
11th, 1878, with a President, two Counselors,
Secretary and Assistant Secretary. The first
meeting not being quite successful, we date
our commencement from Sept. 7th. Number
of members two hundred and fifteen. Meet-
ings held, thirteen. Average attendance, sev-
enty. In the course of the term the children
were called upon for a five cent donation to
get means to buy a Record book, stationery,
and Reward of Merit cards. The sum of three
dollars and seventy cents was collected, in-
cluding a donation by the President; Counsel-
ors and Secretary of twenty cents each; also
twenty-five cents given by Sisters Mary S. and
Nancy A. Clark.
Paid towards book....................................$.70
Stationery.................................................. 25
One hundred cards of the Ten Command-
	ments........................................................ 1 00
Two hundred cards Reward of Merit....... 1 75
	The exercises of the meetings are similar to
the following; Singing, prayer, call of roll, re-
marks made, local questions asked, and an-
swered in concert; select readings, and explan-
ations made; singing and recitations by the
members; reciting some of the commandments
in concert; a few general remards, then sing-
ing, prayer, and adjournment.
	After the report was read, recitations were
given by two little boys; two songs were sung
during the services. The rest of the time was
taken up by remarks from the sisters. The
children being delighted with the questions
asked them.
	A. S. Rogers, President,
	S. E. Richards, Secretary.


"GRACE GREENWOOD" in one of her
agreeable letters from abroad, speaks of the
Old Paddington Church Yard in London,
where are buried a number of noted per-
sons. First Sarah Siddons, the queen of
English tragedy, lies in the most desolate
part of the yard, immediately on the walk,
without a tree, plant, or bit of turf near it.
Here also is the simple altar-tomb whereon
lies the figure of John Bunyan. Thackeray
and John Leech lie under plain altar-tombs
almost side by side. Tom Hood's is near
by, surmounted by a bronze bust. Over
Leigh Hunt's grave is a marble bust, said
to be marvellously like him. A little away
from Hunt's grave is that of "Sophia, wife
of Nathaniel Hawthorne." Isaac Watts the
Christian poet, and Macready the actor, are
also buried in this venerable old grave-yard.


[Column 1]
