According to the Law of Heaven Elder Marion G. Romney Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 2, 1968.] I am happy to be here, Sister Spafford. I have enjoyed this meeting very much. I feel right at home. This lovely chorus from Rigby has thrilled us with their lovely music and I feel as if I were part of the Rigby Stake. Although I have never lived there, I did once court a girl who lived in Rigby, and I met my wife just a few miles from there, up at Rexburg. I've always felt I was a part of that great upper Snake River community. I commend them. When Sister Witehira offered the invocation, I remembered the assignment given to me by President McKay to organize the Auckland Stake. That was back in 1958, I believe. He had invited Sister Romney and me to go to the dedication of the New Zealand Temple. He told me he would expect us to tour the islands of the Pacific on the way home. We were sitting in the Auckland chapel one day after the dedication, when President McKay said, "Brother Romney, I want you to stay here and organize the Auckland Stake, the first stake south of the equator in this dispensation." I remembered, too, that about the fifteenth of August of this year I was in the Auckland airport where I nearly froze. Sister Romney and I were on our way to Australia. When Sister Dawson spoke, I remembered that we were in Perth holding conference on the twenty-fourth of August, just the other day. There, at Fremantle, we looked out over the Indian Ocean—and we did more than that—we flew over it—between 5,000 and 6,000 miles. It is quite a pond of water. Our destination was Johannesburg, South Africa. When this dear sister from South America, Sister de Mella, gave her talk in Spanish, it thrilled me again, because for ten years Sister Romney and I have been working with the Spanish-speaking people in Central America, Mexico, and on this side of the border. And, of course, I have met Sister Spafford before. We labored together for many years in the welfare work, and now I am an advisor to the Relief Society. So I feel at home here. I hope I can continue to so feel and that I can deliver the message I have prepared, under the spirit that we have enjoyed here this morning. In the meeting of March 17, 1842, in which the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society, it is reported that President John Taylor said he "rejoiced to see this institution organized according to the law of heaven." (Relief Society Minutes, March 17, 1842, page 8.) In their invitation to me to speak here today, the Presidency of the Relief Society expressed the wish that I speak to these words of President Taylor. It is rather a narrow subject, and so it took considerable preparation. But, since I am the junior advisor to the Relief Society, a suggestion by the Presidency is, of course, a command to me. I shall therefore do my best. PRESIDENT TAYLOR RECOGNIZED POTENTIAL OF RELIEF SOCIETY To begin with, I want to say that I do not believe President Taylor's statement was lightly made. I think his words were carefully chosen and deliberately spoken. I am further persuaded that, in addition to his witness that the Prophet had organized the Relief Society "according to the law of heaven," he had a profound understanding of the significance of what had been done. I think he rather fully realized the potentialities of this great According to the Law of Heaven organization, and that he did, in fact, rejoice in its organization according to the law of heaven. In support of this thesis, I call your attention to the fact that he had a great intellect, which through hard work and diligent study he had trained and disciplined; and that he had a profound understanding of law, particularly the law of heaven which he equated to the law of the gospel. Concerning his mental capacity, President Brigham Young paid him this tribute: With regard to Brother John Taylor, I will say that he has one of the strongest intellects that can be found. He is a powerful man, and we may say that he is a powerful editor. But I will use a term to suit myself and say that he is one of the strongest editors that ever wrote. (The Gospel Kingdom, Introduction to Book I, Compiled by Homer Durham.) That is a great tribute from President Young. With respect to John Taylor's training and his self-disciplining, a brief résumé of his life will testify. John Taylor was born November 1, 1808, in Westmoreland, England. He was christened in the Church of England and he early exhibited religious tendencies. B. H. Roberts says in his Life of John Taylor, that he... Possessed a portion of the spirit of God.... Manifestations of its presence were frequent, not only in the expansion of his mind to understand doctrines and principles, but also in dreams and visions. "Often when alone," he writes, "and sometimes in company, I heard sweet, soft, melodious music, as if performed by angelic or supernatural beings." When but a small boy he saw, in vision, an angel in the heavens, holding a trumpet to his mouth, sounding a message to the nations. (Life of John Taylor, by B. H. Roberts, 1892 edition, pp. 27-28.) Believing that he found more light in Methodism, he became a Methodist. Walking to his first appointment as a local Methodist preacher, at seventeen years of age, he suddenly stopped and said to his companion, "I have a strong impression on my mind, that I have to go to America to preach the gospel!" So strong was this impression that nine years later, when the ship on which he was traveling to Canada was so threatened in a severe storm that the captain and officers were expecting her to go down, he had no fear. The voice of the spirit was still saying within him, "You must yet go to America and preach the gospel." (Ibid., page 29.) In Toronto, although successful as a Methodist preacher, he was never satisfied with the doctrines of that church. Although he was now preaching the gospel in America, he often said to his wife, "This is not the work; it is something of more importance." (Ibid., page 30.) He, with several others who could find no satisfaction in the sectarian doctrines of the day, clung to the Bible, studied its teachings, and met several times a week to search the scriptures, and investigate the doctrines of the Christian religion as contained in the Bible... They agreed, in their investigation, to reject every man's opinion and work, and to search the scriptures alone, praying for the guidance of the Holy Spirit. (Ibid., page 31.) Because of their beliefs, they voluntarily forfeited their offices in the Methodist Church.

It was under these conditions that John Taylor was contacted by Parley P. Pratt. John Taylor had previously heard only evil rumors about the Mormons. He was, therefore, not very receptive at first. Finally, however, Parley P. Pratt was introduced to Mr. Taylor and his religious friends. They were delighted with his preaching... [which] was in strict harmony with what they themselves believed; but what he had to say about Joseph Smith and the Book of Mormon perplexed a great many, and some of their members even refused to investigate it]. John Taylor, however, was of a different mind. We are here [he said to his associates], ostensibly in search of truth. Hitherto we have fully investigated other creeds and doctrines and proved them false. Why should we fear to investigate Mormonism?... I desire to investigate his [Mr. Pratt's] doctrines and claims to authority, and shall be very glad if some of my friends will unite with me in this investigation. But if no one will unite with me, be assured I shall make the investigation alone. If I find his religion true, I shall accept it, no matter what the consequences may be; and if false, then I shall expose it. After this, John Taylor began the investigation of Mormonism in earnest and on the 9th of May 1836, himself and his wife were baptized. ([bid., pages 37-38.) DEFENDER OF THE PROPHET Ten months later he visited Kirtland, where he was entertained in the Prophet's home. At that time apostasy was rampant in Kirtland, but John Taylor fearlessly and effectively defended the Prophet. In August of 1837, he received word from the Prophet that he would be called to fill one of the vacancies in the Quorum of the Twelve. To this office he was called and ordained by Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball, December 18, 1838. In the meantime, he had completed, with his family, a tortuous journey from Toronto to Far West, Missouri. With fortitude and courage, he endured the hardships incident to the Missouri persecutions and the expulsion of the saints from that State. Between August 1839 and July 1841, he performed a memorable mission in England. Back home, he was immediately loaded with responsibilities incident to the development of Nauvoo and the expansion of the Church. [In] February, 1842, [the month before the Relief Society was organized] he was chosen associate editor of the Times and Seasons... (Ibid., page 102.) Prominent among President Taylor's many attainments was, as already indicated, a profound understanding of law and its controlling function in the universe. It was, therefore, natural for him to use the word "law" in his description of the Relief Society organization. An understanding that God created and governs the universe strictly according to law was for him the beginning of all wisdom. All things are under the influence, control and government of law... The sun rises and sets regularly, the earth revolves upon its axis, and so it is with all the planetary systems.... Heavenly bodies... Are governed by a science and intelligence that is beyond the reach of men in mortality they move strictly according to certain laws by which all of them have been, are, and will be governed. And these laws are under the surveillance and control of the great Law-Giver, who manages, controls, and directs all these worlds... Everything in Nature is governed strictly according to immutable, eternal, unchangeable laws, practical, philosophical, and strictly scientific, if these terms are preferred; but they are, nevertheless, placed there by the Almighty. (The Gospel Kingdom, Homer Durham, pp. 67-68.) He recognized the laws of nature concerning which men of science and philosophy have learned so much—particularly in this modern time—and he respected them. ANOTHER FIELD OF LAW But he knew there was another field of law—the law of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which holds the key to a knowledge and control of all things. He had a keen appreciation of the difference between these two fields of law. There is a philosophy of the earth and a philosophy of the heavens. The latter can unravel all mysteries pertaining to the earth. But the philosophy of the earth cannot enter into the mysteries of the kingdom of God, or the purposes of the Most High. (Ibid., page 73.) That John Taylor did not regard philosophy as the key to a knowledge of heavenly things is evident from the following statement: Speaking of philosophy... I was almost buried up in it while I was in Paris. I was walking about one day in the Jardin des Plantes—a splendid garden. There they had a sort of exceedingly light cake. It was so thin and light that you could blow it away, and you could eat all day of it, and never be satisfied. Somebody asked me what the name of it was. I said, I don't know the proper name, but in the absence of one, I can give it a name—I will call it philosophy, or fried froth, whichever you like. It is so light you can blow it away, eat it all day, and at night be as far from being satisfied as when you began.... (Ibid., page 78.) John Taylor recognized in the gospel the "adhesive principle sufficiently powerful to unite" the peoples of the earth. (Ibid., page 83.) We, under the inspiration of the Almighty, will introduce the laws of God that exist in the heavens and upon the earth. And form a nucleus of truth, of virtue and intelligence. Of law and order. Of principles pertaining to morals, to philosophy, to politics, to religion, and to everything that is pure, exalting, and ennobling, and the kingdom will be the Lord's. (Ibid., page 83.) He predicted that we will yet see the world... Flocking to Zion by thousands and tens of thousands they will say, "We don't know anything about your religion, we don't care much about religious matters, but you are honest and honorable, and upright and just, and you have a good, just and secure government, and we want to put ourselves under your protection, for we cannot feel safe anywhere else. (Ibid., page 72.) He frequently spoke of the power of the priesthood and its administrative function in the law of heaven. Here is an example: We are the offspring of God, and God in these last days has seen fit to place us in communication with himself. He has, through the revelations of himself and of his Son Jesus Christ, by the ministry of holy angels and by the restoration of the holy priesthood which emanates from God, and by which he himself is governed, placed us in a position whereby we can fulfill the object of our creation. There are certain eternal laws that have existed from before the foundation of the world. There has been a priesthood also in existence always, and hence it is called the everlasting priesthood, and it is administered in time and eternity. That priesthood has been conferred upon man together with the right of the gospel.

And we are told how man can get into possession of the Holy Spirit of God, and how he can be placed in communication with God. ([bid., pp. 70-71.) It is altogether understandable that John Taylor, with his understanding, faith, and expectations, would be alert and sensitive to what was going on as he saw and heard the Prophet organize the Relief Society, and he understood Joseph's statements that "the Lord has something better for them than a written constitution." That is what the Prophet told Eliza R. Snow when she took to him several articles of incorporation which the sisters had drawn up as a prospective guide for their organization. And the Prophet said the Lord had something better for the sisters than a written constitution.

And he understood what the Prophet was talking about when he said: I will organize the sisters under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood.... This Church was never perfectly organized until the women were thus organized. (A Centenary of Relief Society, page 14.)

John Taylor understood this as few do, and these statements must have had a profound influence, as also did the Prophet's instructions that... The Society of the sisters might provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor, searching after objects of charity and in administering to their wants—to assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community. Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls.

The Prophet also declared to the sisters that they would receive instructions from the order of the priesthood which God has established, through the medium of those appointed to lead, guide and direct the affairs of the Church in this last dispensation.... (Jbid., pp. 15-16.)

That was the constitution for the Relief Society. And the Prophet further stated that if they needed his instruction, to ask him and he would give it "from time to time." These statements opened to the mind of John Taylor new visions of the role that women were to play in the building of Zion. He fully realized that a society "under the Priesthood after a pattern of the Priesthood" which Priesthood he knew to be the power and the pattern of government by which and under which God himself orders and controls the universe—was indeed "organized according to the law of heaven." He knew that the "something" which the Lord had for the sisters—which would be "better for them than a written constitution"—was the guidance of the living oracles of God—those Priesthood bearers with whom God himself communicates and through whom he directs his work in the earth. Such a constitution, he knew, would give the Relief Society guidance superior to that enjoyed by any other female organization in the earth.

We may be assured that no implication of this divine organizational pattern escaped the keen, well-ordered mind of John Taylor. To him the spirit bore record that it was indeed organized "according to the law of heaven." Surely, in this knowledge, he had reason, and did as he said, rejoice.

He had further cause to rejoice in the knowledge that in organizing the Relief Society "according to the law of heaven," the Prophet was taking a major step toward perfecting the organization of the Church. Again, he would have rejoiced in his prophetic vision of the service this great organization was destined to render as it pursued the objectives prescribed by the Prophet—service in extending sustenance to the needy, comfort to the bereaved, and joy to the sorrowing, for This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence. You are now placed in a situation in which you can act according to those sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms.

(And, finally, he would have rejoiced as he contemplated the blessings promised to Relief Society sisters by the Prophet in these words: If you live up to these principles, how great and glorious will be your reward in the celestial kingdom! If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. (Ibid., page 605.)

All these, and many other considerations, give solemnity and significance to the statement of John Taylor that he "rejoiced to see this institution organized according to the law of heaven."

God bless you, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.