Loyalty
" 'Loyalty is one of the noblest attributes of the soul.' " (President David O. McKay.)

Loyalty is a most desirable virtue, praised by poets, philosophers, and men of religion; honored by the great and the humble; sought by leaders of nations, churches, and other organizations; achieved by the unselfish and truly loving.

Several important traits are encompassed in loyalty.
FIDELITY is a facet of loyalty. It implies strict adherence to obligations and duties as well as respect for leaders, peers, and oneself. Fidelity is the virtue which leads one to remember and to keep vows, to be true to God, to fellow men, and to the teachings of parents. Wisdom dictates that one be true to himself in order to build a worthy life. Fidelity describes the true relationship of marriage partners.

ALLEGIANCE is a component of loyalty. It is best defined as patriotism to one's country and homage to its flag, respect for law, and submission to authority. Support of leaders under whom one serves requires whole-hearted allegiance and willingness to follow prescribed policies and procedures. Allegiance is not a visionary concept. It is a real, constant, active support.
 
Anna B. Hart
Edith S. Ethott
Florence J Madsen
Leone G Layton
Blanche B Stoddard
Aleine M Young
Alberta H Christensen
Mildred B Eyring
Edith P Backman
Winniefred S Manwaring
Elna P. Haymond
Mary R Young
Afton W Hunt
Elsa T Peterson
Fanny S Kiemitz
Elizabeth B Winters
Jenne R Scott
Alice L Wilkinson
Irene W Buehner
Irene C Lloyd
Hazel S Love
Fawn H Sharp
Celestia J Taylor
Anne R Gledhill
Belva 8 Ashton
Zola J. McGhie
Oa J Cannon
Lila 8. Walch
Lenore C Gundersen
Marjorie C Pingree
Darlene C Dedekind
Edythe K Watson
Ellen N Barnes
Kathryn S Gilbert
Verda F Burton
Myrtle R Olson
Alice C Smith
Lucile P Peterson
Elaine B Curtis
Zelma R West
Leanor J Brown
Reba C Aldous
Luella W Finlinson
Norma B Ashton
Mayola R Miltenberger
Maurine M Haycock

FAITHFULNESS is inherent in loyalty. A faithful person is trustworthy and dependable. Full confidence can be placed upon one who honors his calling and is devoted to his work. Faithfulness has both religious and secular connotations and is expressed in adherence to ideals.

UNSELFISHNESS is necessary to loyalty. One must be willing to submerge self-interest and self-aggrandizement for the good of others. In these days when great emphasis is placed on one's own betterment to the exclusion of concern for others, unselfish loyalty is a prized trait in an associate. As in all things, the Savior is the highest example. He had implicit confidence in the Father and the Father in him. Nothing could tempt him to be disloyal. "Therefore doth my Father love me," Christ explained as he laid down his life to fulfill his mission.

Having examined the nature of loyalty, it becomes apparent that the true Latter-day Saint strives to be loyal to himself, to his parents and their teachings, to his country, and to God and his Church. Loyalty is second only to love, the Prophet has said. Let loyalty be so ingrained in our characters that together the loyal followers of our Lord, true to the leaders he has placed over his Church, will present the face of strength and unity to the world.