Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, Southern Hemisphere: 

OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman devotes herself to gaining more knowledge through diligence and obedience.

The Prophet Joseph Smith made observations upon the public and private remarks of member and nonmember. One time Orson Hyde gave his views on various gospel subjects which called forth corrections by the Prophet. At another time the Prophet corrected some statements made by a Methodist preacher. These corrections have provided the Church with some important doctrinal instructions contained in Sections 130 and 131 of the Doctrine and Covenants.

Latter-day Saints believe in many scriptures which emphasize the need to acquire knowledge. Important among these are the following:

It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance. (D&C 131:6.)

140 Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection.

And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come. (D&C 130:18-19.)

Since the purpose of life is to understand and live the laws which ultimately give salvation (eternal life), then salvation knowledge is the most important part of learning.

If one lacks knowledge of the Savior, the atonement, how to accept the atonement for individual salvation, and also the Church which represents the Lord for salvation, it is impossible to be saved. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts, Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co.; 2d ed. Rev., 1949, Vol. V., p. 387 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC|.)

The person who fails to live gospel teachings degenerates in knowledge. (DHC 4:588.)

On the other hand, as one studies by faith, his concepts of God and eternity are enlarged, and his power to do good is increased. (D&C 88:118; Alma 12:9-11; DHC 2:8.)

Essential salvation knowledge to be learned by the saint is that which pertains to the preservation of his membership in the Church.

The revelations give ways by which one may not be deceived by every wind of doctrine. The Latter-day Saint is well grounded in the path of safety when he accepts the following truth:

Everything we know about God and our relationship to him comes from revelation. (D&C 52:9, 36.)

The revelations are true for they come from the Giver of all truth.

Knowledge pertaining to this life only, is insufficient for salvation. We must learn not only how to overcome our sins here, but we must, as the Prophet Joseph Smith says in the following quotation, learn how to triumph over evil in the world to come:

Salvation is nothing more nor less than to triumph over all our enemies and put them under our feet.

And when we have power to put all enemies under our feet in this world, and a knowledge to triumph over all evil spirits in the world to come, then we are saved. (DHC 5:387.)

The member of the Church who learns the principles of salvation and the keys against being deceived while in mortality, will have that much advantage in the world to come.

What we learn here will help us forever.

Lesson Department Class Discussion

Why is gospel knowledge necessary for success in this life and in the world to come?

There is no true success in this life unless one is obedient to gospel principles. When one considers that this life is man's probationary period, this fact is apparent.

Elder Richard L. Evans of the Council of the Twelve, in discussing Section 130:18-19, has pointed out that if the student will keep in mind that diligence and obedience are the key words in the Lord's admonition for his children to acquire intelligence, he will not leave the faith.

Those words are most meaningful— and I have no fear of learning, of the pursuit of knowledge, for any of our young people, if they will keep in mind diligence and obedience—obedience to the commandments of God, diligence in keeping close to the Church, in keeping active, keeping prayerful, keeping clean, keeping circumspect in their conduct. (Conference Report, , p. 44.)

This advice concerning learning all truth, religious or secular, is in harmony with the Lord's counsel concerning good books, languages, and people.

(D&C 131:5.) In order to make one's calling and election sure, the following three things are necessary: (1) to receive the testimony of Jesus and be baptized; (2) to receive the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands; and (3) to be sealed by the Holy Spirit of Promise. Brother Romney proceeded to say:... What is required is wholehearted devotion to the gospel and unreserved allegiance to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Speaking to this point, the Prophet taught "... That those who keep the commandments of the Lord and walk in his statutes to the end, are the only individuals" who shall receive the blessings.... We must be willing to sacrifice everything. Through self-discipline and devotion we must demonstrate to the Lord that we are willing to serve him under all circumstances. When we have done this, we shall receive an assurance that we shall have eternal life in the world to come. Then we shall have peace in this world. (Conference Report, , pp. 41-44.) JOSEPH SMITH, THE PROPHET The Lord declared that this generation would receive the word of the Lord through his Prophet, Joseph Smith. (D&C 5:10.) As long as the dispensation of the fulness of times continues, the word of the Lord through the modern books of scriptures and the Prophet's writings will continue to go forth to the world. One of the remarkable evidences to support the mission of Joseph Smith is the prophecy on war. (D&C 87.) This revelation states that the American Civil War would begin with the rebellion of South Carolina, for a "voice" declared to Joseph Smith that there would be armed conflict between the North and the South. It would "probably arise through the slave question." (D&C 130:12-13.) Slavery would be a contributing cause of the Civil War, but not the sole cause of it. This point of view agrees with most historians on the cause of that war, although there are some proponents of the theory that slavery was the single cause. The important truth is that the Civil War was prophesied, and that the details of that war, mentioned in Section 87, were fulfilled. Out of that truth comes a lesson. As one gains more knowledge through diligent study, its value to him comes through his obedience to what is learned. This blessing comes through studying by faith. (D&C 88:118.) THE SECOND COMING OF CHRIST The Savior told his disciples anciently and today that no man knows the day and the hour of his second coming. (Matthew 24:36; D&C 49:7.) Preparations are underway and have been since the dispensation began for the return of the Savior. His words to his disciples are pertinent today: Watch therefore: for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come. (Matthew 24:42; Joseph Smith-History 1:46.) As one gains more knowledge by his diligence and obedience, his faith is strengthened and his insight into the signs of the times is enlarged. He is obedient to this counsel and finds safety in these words: "... If ye are prepared ye shall not fear." (D&C 38:30.) IMPLEMENTATION Every Latter-day Saint is counseled to learn the principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. A regular time each day for study brings many rewarding blessings. Without salvation knowledge it is impossible to be saved. Knowledge in itself is not sufficient for Lesson Department salvation, but knowledge obeyed brings salvation in this life and in the world to come. (D&C 59:23.) A rewarding experience for a Latter-day Saint is to learn the value or application of each principle or doctrine of the gospel. By doing this he learns that gospel teachings are consistent in themselves, and each principle is harmonious with the other parts of the gospel. Basic to one's appreciation of the gospel as a motivator for righteous action is the doctrine of man's relationship to God, premortality, purpose of life, man's environment, the assurance of being on the Lord's side, and that Joseph Smith is a prophet of God.