[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: A WONDERFUL AGE. | Author: Unknown]

A WONDERFUL AGE.

	Truly this age is significant of a higher
order of things, a larger outlook soon to
manifest itself in the development of the
human race. Assuredly in all that relates
to progress and to culture even in aesthet-
ics the human family is not going back-
ward, but forward. Organization has had
much to do with this onward movement.
	To be sure war has not ceased altogether,
but efforts made and plans proposed for a
Peace Congress for all the powerful nations,
foretells vividly what we who are living to-
day may anticipate as near at hand. One
even now looks forward to the unexpected,
and might almost add the impossible; for
really what would have been claimed
as utterly impossible fifty years ago has
come to pass, and is almost classed as some-
thing of an i[-]cident instead of, as our fore-
fathers would have thought it, a positive
miracle or unwarrantable in fact.
	Not only the rapid advancement made in
the world of affairs, great and small, and
the common workaday world itself, but the
unprecedented growth of ideas; not neces-
sarily from the learned in the arts and
sciences, or direct lines of knowledge, but
a kind of spontaneous outcome as it were
from some fount of intelligence which had
been reposing through the ages and culmin-
ated at last in the nineteenth century, crys-
talizing certain truths for the uplifting of
mankind. The Lord of heaven and
earth has the over-ruling power, notwith-
standing the wisdom of the world and the
impracticability of many of the theories of
men, and He will care for His own, and
those that seek after the bread of life will
be entitled to the promises made to the
faithful.
	Women have in this present generation
taken hold of some of the problems of the
day and wrestled with them with the in-
tuitive spiritual strength that seems to be a
part of the feminine nature. Men in high
places who have hitherto been tenacious of
rights and of power are beginning to feel,
and in some measure to acknowledge the
superiority of woman’s judgment in many
important matters, and to appreciate her
help as a force working for good in nearly
all the varied lines of progress.
	It is a self-evident truth that women
stand on a higher plane morally and spirit-
ually than men, and why, then, may they
not mingle in governmental affairs, since
society and the true life of the individual
and the nation depends so much upon good,

[Column 2]
wholesome laws judiciously administered,
with a view to restraining evil and promot-
ing good in practical ways that should tend
to better standards in every day life.
	While mothers and sisters were content
with domesticity and never looked into the
outside world except as some man gave his
masculine view, the world wagged along;
but when woman awoke to a conscious-
ness of her own power she began to wonder
and to calculate and inquire what were her
rights. The key of knowledge was turned
for her, and men no longer had the same
absolute sway. Women began to do some
of their own thinking on moral questions,
and then social problems were discussed on
the moral side, and following that economic
measures and so on through the whole cate-
gory of human affairs. To woman has
been opened the great domain of the world,
and why not to the mothers of generations
of men? But ask as one will why and
wherefore the fact remains that woman is
now fairly launched into the arena of Hercu-
lean endeavor to make her way onward
and upward in the ascent of life to the high-
er plane and to lift up those weaker and
less able than herself, the women of less en-
lightened countries and the children; striv-
ing to make better the conditions and en-
vironments, removing obstructions that lie
in the pathway to excellence, and always
bearing inasmuch as is possible the burdens
of others, who are struggling to reach safer
ground.
	Combined efforts are multiplying, and
necessarily must increase the power against
tyranny and oppression of all kinds, and
where men and women unite for high pur-
poses, intelligently waging war against
wrong-doing, the victory so long looked for
must eventually be expected.
	But such a thing cannot be brought
about momentarily; howevheer leaven is
working and the prophecies of Joel con-
cerning the last days when the spirit of the
Lord would be poured out upon all flesh
are being fulfilled before the very eyes of
the generations of today and they know it
not. There is a power that is working for
righteousness in the earth though the in-
fluences that tend to evil are opposed.
	Whatever may be said of the age, every-
one must admit it is a wonderful age how-
ever one marks progress. History must so
record it. This nineteenth century now
drawing to a close is the most eventful one
since the days of the Savior and His Apos-
les in the first century of the Christian era.
	The peace project of the Czar of Russia
presages something more than has yet ap-
peared; various conjectures about his motives
are afloat, but the Lord is working among
the nations and the desire for peace which
is growing among highly enlightened peo-
ples speaks for itself in a voice not to be
misunderstood. Russia may be afraid of
other nations and consequently advise dis-
armament, but a higher power than the
Czar can be recognized in the treaty for
peace along which line some men and wo-
men, the Peacemakers, have been laboring
during the last decade with great diligence.
Summing up the great changes in the last
hundred years must bring evidence to all
who stop to think, and another age like
this will assuredly bring greater things
to pass in the same ratio.


We have asked repeatedly through the
paper and officially for the names of women
who were elected in November 1898, but
have not yet been able to get replies.


