[Vol7 | September 1920 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: On the Watch Tower James H. Anderson]
ON THE WATCH TOWER 535 The Prohibition party, in July, nominated William J. Bryan for its candidate for president, but he declined the position, and Aaron S. Watkins, of Ohio, was nominated, with D. Leigh Colvin, of New York, for vice-president. Turkey and Greece were at war in July, in several sanguinary battles in which the Greeks were victorious. On July 25, the Greeks occupied the Turkish sacred city of Adrianople. Railway employs' wages were increased $600,000,000 a year by the decision of the government railway labor board, on July 20. The railway employes accepted, but so unwillingly that troublesome strikes may develop in the future. Egypt was in a greatly disturbed condition in July, in antagonism by the natives to British rule. The situation there foreshadows an uprising of the black races against their white rulers. Poland made war on Bolshevik Russia, was signally defeated, and on July 23 asked for and was granted an armistice. The United States not being a member of the league of nations was not under obligation to send troops to preserve the territorial integrity of Poland as fixed by the league. The Farmer-Labor party is the title of a new national political organization formed at Chicago in July. Its candidates are P. P. Christensen, of Utah, for president of the United States, and Max Hayes for vice-president. Rebuilding Jerusalem was the most notable question before the world during the month of July. As evidence of the prominence of the forces engaged, the chief commission acting in the work is composed of Lord Reading, lord chief justice of Great Britain;  Alfred Mond, the great engineer and British minister of public works, and Major James Rothschild, son of Baron Edmond D. Rothschild, who was with the British troops at the capture of Jerusalem, and represents the great French Rothschild banking interests — all Jews;  also Louis D. Brandeis, United States Supreme Court associate justice, who presided at the Zionist conference in London in July. MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN Notes From the Field — August North Davis Stake. A Relief Society stake social was given by the officers of the North Davis stake Relief Society recently in the amusement hall of the Kaysville ward, to all residents of the North Davis stake. Commencing at 2 o'clock in the afternoon a very interesting program was given, consisting of tableaux and music, followed by refreshments and a general get-acquainted handshake. In the evening a social dance was given and during the dance a huge cake weighing forty pounds, was cut into pieces and sold to help defray expenses. This cake was made to represent the Salt Lake temple. The social was a great success and the officers felt well repaid for the time and energy spent in arranging the entertainment. Miss Emily Brough is president of this stake. A Relief Society Worker. An interesting Relief Society woman is Mrs. Annie Bowler Leavitt of Gunlock, Utah, second counselor of the Relief Society of the Gunlock ward. Mrs. Leavitt is the mother of seventeen children, fourteen of whom are living. The youngest is a babe one and one-half year old. Her eighth child, a son, was born while her husband was fulOFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 537 filing a mission in the east. During the years of his absence she displayed marked executive ability in the management of their home affairs and on his return home he found himself in a better condition financially than when he left. When her thirteenth child was a babe in arms she determined to help her children to obtain something of a musical education. She studied with them on the organ' and on the violin. Eight of her children now play on the violin and three of them are organists in various organizations. Mrs. Levitt herself held a position as ward organist for several years. This energetic woman has always been a devoted member of the Mutual Improvement Association. She was chorister in her ward for some years and for two years she took part in the debates under the direction of the Mutual, winning the score each time. Although called to bear a heavy share of the family responsibilities in consequence of the many public duties of her husband, she has responded cheerfully to all calls in the home and has never failed in performing her own public duties. Utah Stake. In the visiting teachers department of the Utah stake the mission of "teaching" is emphasized. At the monthly meeting in the teachers' department, a subject, which has been previously assigned, is presented by an able speaker, and discussed by those in attendance. Each teacher is given an outline of the subject for future study and consideration, and when she makes her visits during the month, she carries this subject into the homes where it is discussed with the families. Temple and Burial Clothing. — A department for temple and burial clothing has been established in the Utah stake. Mrs. Martha A. F. Keeler, who was for many years the very able president of this stake, accepted the chairmanship of this department. In order to make a beginning, each of the wards contributed $5, this was supplemented by a donation from the stake board members. Under Mrs. Keeler's able management, this department is well established and is meeting a long-felt need. Netherlands Mission. The following letter has recently been received from President John A. Butterworth of the Netherlands mission: Dear Sisters: We are just in receipt of your yearly report
