The Realistic Dreamer While the saintly conception of Joan of Arc in literature is satisfactory to some, to others it is inadequate. Writers who conceive Joan as saintly reflect her fundamental quality of spirituality to excess while they slight her practicality. History shows that Joan of Arc was more than a visionary, for she brought her dreams to fulfilment. She gave precise directions in regard to her sword and her banner. At her request the former was brought from St. Catherine's church at Fierbois; the latter she designed herself. The field of the banner was sown with the lilies of France, the country she was to save. In the midst of the lilies God, who had sent her, was painted, holding the world and sitting upon clouds. The motto was "Jesus Maria," her watchword. As the banner materialized out of her dreams and her purpose, so did the attack on Orleans, where, lance in hand, she led a charge upon the English. The Goal of Her Life From the beginning her goal was the crowning of the dauphin at Rheims. During this ceremony she was ever near the king,  holding her standard in her hand. The great audience was deeply stirred. Paine comments: "The peasant girl had made good her promise. Unknown in January, in July she had crowned a king. They were witnessing an event without counterpart in human. History." As an award for her services, Joan asked that the people of Domremy and Cruex be forever exempt from taxation. This was a most practical and impartial way of relieving her heavily burdened people. In her replies to her tormentors during her trial, the Maid's good sense and clear insight were demonstrated. Many readers feels that the writers who depict Joan of Arc as merely a saintly Maid rob her of much of her charm. Was it "the Will of God?" However, the saintly Maid of literature reflects faithfully her prototype in regard to visions and voices. According to Joan's testimony, her Saints and their Voices were as real as any experience in her life. A large class of writers accept the Maid at her word in this respect, feeling that she was super-naturally inspired. Bangs says: "It was the will of God that France should live.' Wheaton claims that "God intended France to be, not a vassal, but a country complete in herself, and he chose a selfless instrument for the most difficult part in the accomplishment of his design." The great French historian, Quicherat, a free thinker wholly devoid of clerical influences, admits Joan's voices, saying that the evidence for them is as good as for any fact in her history. There is a class of writers who portray a saintly girl and yet who, like John Lord, neither affirm nor deny divine inspiration. These view her as a religious phenomenon and offer no explanation. Her Soul's Real Love As a subject for romance Joan of Arc has been treated in many varying lights, sometimes without regard to historical facts, as in the case of Schiller's "Die Jungfrau." Although the creative Joan of Arc is so often treated romantically, the real Joan was not concerned with love. She was child-like in this respect, and had never experienced a conflict between spirit and flesh caused by earthly passion. She was not torn'by desire, as Schiller pictures her. During her long imprisonment and in her martyrdom she was not sustained by the love of the handsome Duke d' Alencon, as Percy Mackaye depicts. Nor was she attracted to the king, as Delteil and other writers conceive her to have been. The real Joan's love for her king was love of her country, of which he was the symbol. Joan was the spirit of medieval chivalry. She was not sexless; she spoke of marriage and of sons as a future JOAN OF ARC IN LITERATURE 589 possibility, but her concern up to the time of her capture was the saving of France. As a rule the romantic Joan in literature, like the saintly one, is depicted as a visionary, actually seeing personages and hearing supernatural voices.