11
Fifth Centenary of Joan of Arc By Kate Thomas
Oh, to be in Paris when the guide's eyes glow as he leads you from one to another of the Joan of Arc paintings in the Pantheon! If wishes were horses, beggars might ride; and if they were fishes, beggars might swim. It would not be such a bad sensation to be geysered from the nostril of some obliging porpoise if it landed you where you want to be?in France with the marvelous Maid.
Character of the Maid of Orleans
No more romantic figure exists in history than Joan of Arc. However we look at her: as the result of egotism, fanaticism, plain downright superstition, high-souled mysticism, or pure, spiritual worthiness in the hand of the Divine Discerner of tools, she is still a theme for speculation, an object for the tenderest, most reverential love. Calm, gentle, purposeful, heroic Joan! Unschooled, but gloriously alive little peasant girl with her patriot's heart swelling for the woes of France. Simple, serious, dutifully domestic, young maiden with ears strained for the voices that speak only to her! Keen, determined, full-armored general, raising the siege of Orleans at seventeen years old! Brave, brilliant strategist, following up her victory with a quick line of success (Jargeau, Beaugency, Patay) that in but one week's time had driven the English beyond the Loire! Modest head of the army and exultant subject placing the ruler of her adored country upon the throne! Betrayed, trapped, tricked, and tortured Maid of Orleans, Deliverer of France, still worshipful, still true and still trusting, burned at the stake before she had turned twenty!
The Troublous Time of Her Birth
Who so stilted that he does not thrill through this enchaining story? Let us, from half a dozen references, summarize it briefly:
 
She was born in troublous times. So had been her parents before her. War, as you know, has always been the curse of the earth. In 1338, England and France began what was afterwards called the Hundred Year War. Joan was born in 1412 (at Domremy, January 6). English kings, by marrying French princesses, felt that they were heirs to the throne of France; and the French people had too strong a national spirit to adopt that view. Now in October of 1415, when Joan was about three, the king of France, Charles the sixth, met the invading king of England, Henry the fifth, at Agincourt, and was defeated. At that time France was practically in a civil war; and the Burgundian faction, which favored England, was the real ruling power. "Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown," says Shakespeare. Charles sixth of France might have thought that also if he'd had any head to do it with. But he was mentally unfit. The queen, too, preferred a wide-awake prospective son-in-law as ruler rather than a deranged husband. So four years after this decisive battle of Agincourt the queen and the Burgundians made a treaty with the English at Troyes (May, 1420), through which Henry, by marrying the French princess, should be king of France when Charles sixth died.
Intrigues of Kings
Joan's child life was in all this mix-up. For there was the young dauphin, son of Charles sixth, who had not inherited much strength of character from either his unsound father or his English inclined mother, who, except for this treaty, was next in line to the throne. To make things still more interesting, two years after the Treaty Henry the fifth died, leaving an infant son to inherit both thrones. Two months later of the same year (1422) Charles sixth died also. And there was the nineteen-year-old dauphin. France had two kings! Which one would beat the other to the actual crowning? Joan was only ten now. But it was not the sugar-fed, irresponsible ten of "infantile America." It was the hard-lived, working ten of the peasantry. France was in a turmoil, having no stable government to combat the general system of brigandage that was going on everywhere. The people needed a king badly, but he should not be an interloper! France was in bondage. The peasantry, always the chief sufferer, was greatly excited.
The Life of Joan of Arc
It had been prophesied that a maid should deliver France from bondage. At thirteen, beneath the "enchanted tree" Joan listened to voices that told her she was that maid?the voices of St. Michael, St. Catherine and St. Margaret; and from them she learned
FIFTH CENTENARY OF JOAN OF ARC 581
where to find the sword of Charles Martel, which they bade her carry. Little Joan wanted a real king and a reliable government. She was too young to realize that the aimless dauphin would never form a reliable court, neither did the, to her, unjust agreement of Troyes mean anything but unspeakably disgraceful union. France to be a slave! Forever! And to be finally merged into England! Never! So from ten to seventeen (that mystic number seven!), her heart was a seething 'they shall not pass.' And as those years went by and the English, already in possession of the North, were moving on to Orleans, the key to the South, her voices became more insistent and she with them. It was now the year 1429. Joan, after many strivings, had at last succeeded in gaining the attention of the dauphin. He gave her an army of five thousand men. She was now the Maid. April 29 she entered Orleans. In May she raised the siege. The dauphin was crowned!
Betrayal of the Heroine
Incensed at the broken pledge of Troyes, Burgundy redoubled his efforts to capture Joan. The young girl wished still to obey her voices; and they were telling her that, now her mission was accomplished, she must return to her home in Domremy. But she was too loyal to her new-made king, who was to be such a traitor to her. Yielding to his importunity she stayed with the army. To her sorrow! When she attempted the capture of Paris, the king deserted her, disbanding his army. Jealousy, too, was putting its green finger into the fire. Able officers who had doubtless supervised her, did not like all the laurels of victory to be handed to a girl. Perhaps this is partly the reason that in fighting against Burgundy at Compiegne she found herself separated from all but her own brothers, who manfully fought to protect her; but she was pulled from her horse by a Burgundian and taken prisoner. She was sold to the English by the Duke of Burgundy and John of Luxemburg for thirty-two hundred dollars.
Baseness of Two Nations
The English, through the persistent evil machinations of an unspeakably base priest, a Burgundian sympathizer, Pierre Cauchon, who had been ejected from his own see but who seems to have had enough influence with the University of Paris and the Holy Inquisition to bend them to his wishes, returned her to the French Inquisition for trial. And there she met no mercy. Cauchon, the dragon, was her accuser, he was her condemner. By keeping France a nation she had thwarted his ambitions to an archbishopric under Anglo-Burgundian power. Besides, she had received revelation direct to herself rather than through the
 
church. He had her pat on that. Joan, her faithful heart stung at the charge of heresy, and her flesh, that had borne the wounds of war so bravely, shrinking from a hideous death by burning, piteously pleaded for the intercession of the supreme earthly judge, the pope. Coldly told that the pope was too far away, she was excommunicated; then, in Rouen, May 30, 1431, burned at the stake as a heretic.
The Nobility of Her Soul
So this sweet, pure, loving, tender, girl-warrior, who wept at the tragedy of killing, who dismounted from her horse to minister to a hurt enemy as carefully as she would tend her own, must know the agony of biting flames that sear her lithe, live body; and learn the bitter lesson of the lonely great when, deserted by church and state, he falls back in despair upon his own "unconquerable soul"? And that hope which is the immortal part of us?the justice of the coming generation and, beyond, "what gods may be!" In her case both are working. France today, by placing tablets at the various points of her achievements, is celebrating the wonderful year of 1429. And on February 23, the date on which she had set out to offer her sword to France, the first memorial stone was laid, while bonfires blazed, whistles blew and church bells rang! A later pope withdrew the charge of heresy against her. In 1894 Leo thirteenth declared her venerable. She was canonized May 13, 1920. As for Cauchon, he was excommunicated after his death by Pope Calixtus IV, "and his body exhumed and thrown into the common sewer." Vive Jeanne d' Arc!
It is pleasing to note how many English writers are willing to pay high tributes to Joan. As an instance of this we quote from "Jeanne D' Arc," by Alfred Austin, the present Poet Laureate of England:
"You with your unarmed innocency Scaled The walls of war, and, where man's might had failed, Crowning, enthroned the Annointed of the Lord. And should France yet again be called to scare The stranger from her gates, and hurl back thence Feet that would violate her frontiers fair, Not meretricious sycophants of sense, But the pure heart and patriotic prayer, Once more would prove her rescue and defense."
From The Independent, May 5, 1904.