Notes from the Field Botse Stake BOISE SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY This picture was taken at the opening social in the Second Ward, at Boise. It tells its own story?efficient mothers and beautiful children. Nebo Stake In the Nebo Stake Tabernacle, on Sunday, August 18, 1929, a thoroughly successful Relief Society Class Leaders' Convention was held, President Mary P. Harding presiding. Professor William H. Boyle from the Brigham Young University gave an illuminating address on fundamentals in teaching. Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund of the General Board of Relief Society, followed, emphasizing the same thoughts. John F. Oleson, stake seminary instructor, asked for the support of the Relief Society, in the seminary work. Special instructors in the various departments were: Theology, Professor Boyle; Literature, Mrs. Algie Baliff of Provo; Social Service, Miss Hermese Peterson of the Brigham Young University; Music, Mrs. Hannah Condie Packard of the puke Young University; Visiting Teachers, Mrs. Julia A. F. Und. _ The Class Leaders' Convention, together with the large stake social the preceding Tuesday, made a very fine beginning for the  Relief Society work of the year. In the social, all the wards took part. Those who participated in this delightful entertainment numbered, perhaps, more than four hundred, mostly members of the Relief Society. Morgan Stake At Como Springs, August 20, 1929, was held one of the best socials and flower shows ever put on by the Morgan stake Relief Society. Present at the invitation of the stake president were: Mrs. Louise Y. Robison, General President of the Relief Society, and other members of the General Board. The program was both musical and literary, each ward furnishing a number. In variety, quality, and number, the flower entries would be difficult to duplicate. Following the program and the display of flowers, luncheon to 280 guests was served by the stake board. Shelley Stake From Shelley stake comes a most interesting report of activities during the past year. One very fine accomplishment was realized through the thrift and energy of the stake Relief Society. More than $500.00 was earned and contributed toward the stake tabernacle, which has just been completed. The stake officers planned also and consummated three summer events, one for each month. That for July was a stake outing held on the 9th in the Goshen ward?a most successful entertainment, nearly every woman in the stake being present, making a total of 575. Tithe August event was a flower show, which was held during the quarterly conference, August 17 and 18, in the beautiful new tabernacle. In this show, planned and carried out by the Relief Society civic pride committee, each ward had a separate display, all blending most harmoniously. That there had never been so many beautiful flowers grown in the stake before, was the opinion of all present. After the conference four large loads of choice blossoms were taken to Idaho Falls and given, with the compliments of the Relief Society, to the two hospitals there. The event for September combined a district teachers' convention and a banquet. In each ward during the summer months a Relief Society conference was held. Stake officers report all ward workers much interested in their program, and eager for the lesson work to begin again. Rigby Stake A gratifying report of Relief 'Society activities in the Rigby stake, covers the fiscal year just ending. The Society was active during the summer months, holding its annual flower show, class leaders' convention, and two clinics. One clinic was held for the examination of heart and lungs, another for children of pre-school NOTES FROM THE FIELD 609 age. By enlisting the services of a public health nurse, this stake has co-operated well with other agencies. During the late winter months, at the home of Stake President Lettie E. Call, the stake board entertained its ward presidents, counselors, and secretaries. Salt Lake Stake In order to demonstrate some outstanding piece of work that has been accomplished, it is the desire of the Salt Lake stake Relief Society board to set aside one day towards the latter part of the year. This year the field of art work was chosen. Members were asked to bring any piece of work?sewing, rugs, quilts, or any type of article made during the year or at a previous time?but it must have been a result of lessons in the art department, or must have been accomplished through inspiration received from Relief Society activities. The exhibit, held in the spacious new Nineteenth Ward Amusement Hall, was most successful. The room was redolent with the fragrance of a flower garden placed in the center, while, side by side around the room, were thirteen booths variously decorated and filled with pieces of art work?afghans, lampshades, rugs, quilts, flowers, painted articles, remodeled clothing, and soon. The booths, decorated with flowers made by the women of the Relief Societies, were gay and beautiful in their originality. "Excellence in art," says Hilliard, "is to be attained only by active effort, and not by passive impressions; by the manly overcoming of difficulties, by patient struggle against adverse circumstances, by the thrifty use of moderate opportunities." If Mr. Hilliard had been in the Relief Society and had its activity in mind, he could not have spoken more truthfully. By earnest hard work, under many difficulties, these women produced an especially fine exhibit. The judges declared it impossible to select any one booth and call it the best, because all were so praiseworthy. Prizes were given to each ward for some distinctive display: For the greatest display of outlined articles, for the best general display, for the best quilt and handwork, and for the most artistic booth, also for the one with the greatest 'number of useful articles, and for the best exhibit of remodeled clothing. Refreshments were served on small tables, and music was furnished by the excellent West Junior High School orchestra. This affair, all declared to be one of the most charming ever given. Pioneer Stake As a fitting close to the season's work, and also to celebrate the organization of the Pioneer stake Relief Society in 1904, a delightful entertainment was given by the officers of the Pioneer stake Relief Society, on June 28, 1929, in Pioneer Stake Hall. The  hall was beautifully decorated with summer flowers. After a short musical program, a pageant depicting the organization and growth of the Relief Society work of the Pioneer stake, was given. It was an excellent portrayal of the patriotic service rendered by these women during the 25 years since the organization. Dealing with a very important historic period, it showed the manifold activities? philanthropy, patriotism, and also the educational and spiritual development. The pageant portrayed the helpful work of the women of this stake during the World War, the institution of a stake library, and other examples of real progress. Music was furnished by a string orchestra. Beautiful costumes in pastel shades, worn by the dancers, who were a part of the pageant, made a very lovely picture. Not the least interesting, however, was the living picture of the women responsible for this work?the former presidents of the stake. After the closing remarks, the afternoon was spent in games and social entertainment, at which all the wards of the stake were guests, and were served with delicious refreshments. Big Horn Stake The motto for the year 1929 in the Big Horn stake has been "Self Improvement." At the same time it was the special aim of the Relief Society to build up and improve the work of the visiting teachers. The work is responding to the efforts put forth, and improving in a satisfactory manner. At the Work and Business Meetings a plan has been put into effect whereby every member, no matter how varied the talents, would be interested and employed. One group would furnish the entertainment, and another the luncheon, the latter often supplying a recipe for the dish served if the members so desired. The second group would paint vases or frame pictures, while the third would be making quilts or some one or the other of the old home arts. This plan, decidedly successful, has greatly increased attendance at the Work and Business Meeting. Big Horn stake has gone through the process of early pioneering, where all energy was spent in subduing the soil. Maintenance of life having been successfully accomplished, the sisters of the Relief Society feel that beautifying the land is the next great achievement. To this end, the flower department of the Relief Society has asked every woman to plant a shrub or ornamental tree. Over a thousand shrubs have been planted, one ward alone planting 243. Ward conferences this year have been in keeping with the flower program, the churches being always decorated for the occasion. One little branch held its conference so early that there was not a flower in the village, nevertheless a beautiful bowl of Chinese Lilies graced the speakers' stand. It was only on close NOTES FROM THE FIELD 611 scrutiny that it was discovered that the bulbs were onions, while clever paper flowers duplicated real lilies. Annual day, in the Big Horn stake, is fast becoming an outstanding event. The wonderful spirit at these gatherings adds much to the work. Good programs both spontaneous and previously arranged, together with pageants and one act plays, help to make the day enjoyable. The Glee Club is carrying out a fine program, and furnishes excellent music at the various meetings. The work of compiling the Cook Book is nearly completed, and the stake board is convinced that it will be a monument to the good cooks of the organization. So many of the wards desired to continue the weekly meetings during the months of July and August that the following program for summer activities was decided upon: For July, Testimony Meeting: theme, "Ideals of Our Pioneers"; at the \Work and Business Meeting, besides continuation of the present plan of work, a program giving biographies of the early stake presidents; on July 16, "The American Indian;" on July 23, Home talent: night or a pageant; and so on through the summer, always with something particularly appropriate to the times, Woodruff Stake On Thursday, August 15, 1929 *the Woodruff stake Relief Societies held an exhibit in the Evanston ward chapel. One hundred and fifty persons were present. The exhibits comprised diverse kinds of handwork, cut flowers and living plants. Each ward made a special prize quilt, the quilts being especially excellent. Officers of the Lyman stake were present, and acted as judges of the exhibit. During the program a thirty-second silent tribute of love and respect was paid to the memory of Mrs. Sarah Martin of the Hilliard ward, recently deceased, whose loss is deeply felt. The exhibit was an unqualified success, promising much good for the future.