[Vol21 | April 1934 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: Social Service]

Social Service (Fourth Week in April) Home AND SCHOOL The major function of the home is the care and training of children. The activities of the home are managed in diverse ways by the parents themselves and are financed privately from the earnings of the members of the family group. The state or public has interfered by regulating family life only by preventing abandonment of children or undue cruelty to or neglect of them. The major function of schoolJs is the training of children. At first this aim was wholly one of removing illiteracy. The rise of popular government required a common training in citizenship. In later years the preparation of the child for certain vocations and training in social conduct and the correct moral use of leisure time have been made functions of the school. Schools are financed in a cooperative way by taxation. This lesson aims to encourage class members to think out clearly the relationships between these two major institutions. These relationships should include the following: 1, Recognition of the specific responsibilities of the home. 2. Recognition of the specific responsibilities of the school. 3. Analyses of cooperative responsibilities. 4, Analyses of possible points of conflict. 5. Relationships between responsibilities and support. 6. The dangers to childhood and to society in conflict between the two institutions Suggestions for Procedure: Plan the lesson carefully in the light of the six aims. Assign the reading guide and ask the class members to come prepared to discuss the six aims. As each aim is discussed the class leader should apply the interpretation of the material outlined from the report of the White House Conference and the discussions given below. Reading guide for class members: Personality, pp. 11-20. Note the emphasis of the child as the objective in both institutions. 

  Do you feel that the author tends to make the home a means to school success?
Historically which is the helping institution?
What seems to be the chief reason ' for the school being more efficient and tnerefore, seeming to be more important now?
Three problems for cooperation are specifically pointed out and discussed: 1. The child's health: Notice carefully what is outlined as the responsibility of the home in this matter. Are equally definite requirements stated for the schools?
School aims and methods: Who should formulate school aims?
What factors are to be considered by the parents in training the child to begin school?
Should parents dictate school methods of precedence?
Should parents know about these methods?
What cooperation is necessary when a pupil's program is modified because of peculiarities indicated by psychological tests or other examinations? Is the decision not to have home study to be made by teachers or parents? Why? Can the home help in teaching the formal school studies?
Should it do so?
Note the social as well as the school answer to this question. Is the "strain" that often accompanies school work due to the school or to parental standards?
Does the best education point the child back into his home or away from it?.
Satisfaction of inner needs so that the emotional desires are met.
Note carefuly how this problem changes the various characteristic periods of childhood represented by the various school levels. In what ways is independence desired? How are the congenial human relations developed? Of what types of pupil achievement should the parents be particularly proud? To what extent should teachers modify school programs because of different home conditions? The questions given in the booklet are based on an assumed survey of school conditions in each community. It is worth while to find out the facts called for.
Suggestions based on the White House Conference Report and supplemented by the author of the les1. The function of the home. Louis Stanley discusses the following three basic purposes of the family: a.
Care and training of the young. B. The nurturing of traditions. C. "building up of an adult family life which will send out individuals better able to face life than were their parents." pp. 133ff He points out clearly (p. 135) that the chief determining factor in the training value of the nome is the interplay of personalities. The home must therefore, be a real social institution. The standards of the family need to be such as deviate in an acceptable way from the social norm or a handicap is placed on the child by his home or family. As an illustration: A young student guide at Berea College ?? refused to give her home town or family status in the face of persistent questioning. Her ideals had exceeded her home realities and she was exerting energy to overcome, as she thought necessary, the home influence. The physical care of the child is dependent on the knowledge of the parents and the healthful provisions in the home. It is forcefully pointed out (p. 138) that there is an economic limit below which children cannot be well cared for.
Parents must think vigorously of the inherent individual and social dangers of forcing back on the home for individual direction and financing of many of the present school functions, at a time when home poverty is more acute than it has been for years.
Cooperative financing is still the only safe method. It may be necessary to reduce the support for these public child-care institutions but this does not imply the necessity for shifting the burden back to the home that is already in poverty. The findings regarding the social status of the modern family are summarized on page 142 and are worth studying.
The responsibilities of the school. The school is an agent for child care and training. No child should be sacrificed to the perpetuation of any part of the school. The literary training is a traditional responsibility. Health as an aim is new. It is emphatic (p. 170) that all details of school instruction should be so organized and managed that the health of the child is conserved. The reading guide material emphasizes specific intellectual goals for each level of school. Reading, number calculations, spelling, correct and ready language, and facts of geography, history and science are to be taught by the school. These must be taught in such a way that interest in them carries over to the use of reading and observation as leisure time pleasures. The attitudes developed as a result of the intellectual generalizations formed at school should lead to good fellowship, friendliness, a desire to work and civic loyalty. All this is the specific purpose of the school.
The cooperative activities are stressed in the reading material in the pamphlet.
Cooperation in the health work is outlined in the Conference report p. 186.
Perhaps the greatest single field of cooperative training is in the field of character.
Home life should exemplify what is desired of children.
School should be conducted so that the acceptable virtues are rewarded.
Neither can justly place the blame on the other for character failures.
Cooperation in character education must extend out to other community agencies.
Church instruction should be adapted to modern problems in modern conditions. If there is a conflict of standards between the church, the school, homes, the community government, and others a young person is left practically without guidance. In a recent scale prepared by Dr. Goodwin Watson for rating the home contribution to personality development of children one item is stated as follows: Negative extreme. "Parents easily upset, grow emotional, evade or lie in matters of guilt, death, sex, status, criticisms, relatives, religion, etc.
Positive extreme: "Parents emotionally mature, face problems frankly, good self-insight, essentially honest in dealing with other persons, especially with the child." If all homes rated high toward the positive extreme; if what the child learns from the habits, likes, tastes, tricks, sense of justice, degree of humor, and courtesy of the teacher are all wholesome; and if all school instruction is such that real permanent interests are developed and morbid fears eliminated and learning motivated on a high plane, then home and school are cooperating for character education. The class might well make a verbal survey of the extent of such cooperation in the community. Are there cases of parents who become angry at the teacher and try to force promotions, etc? Are there parents who defend their children in cases of malicious mischief? Are there parents who think of school success only in terms of high marks no matter how obtained? Are there teachers who send notes home demanding that parents motivate the children? Do children report some courses as special occasions for cheating? Are some required high school courses disliked by most pupils? Are there some teachers universally disliked by pupils?
These are typical questions to be answered in this survey of cooperation.
Points of conflict between home and school are numerous and yet all avoidable. To prevent conflicts it is necessary that parents and teachers both have a common aim for school work?the welfare of the child.
Schools are not organized as an agency for satisfying the social pride of parents often at the expense of a child's welfare.
Parental demands for marks and special classification of pupils on this basis mar the spirit of cooperation.
Schools likewise should never be used by teachers for expressing personal prejudice.
Schools are not organized to subsidize the private business of a community.
What is bought for school use should be determined by its educational usefulness.
Persons who are employed to teach or do other work should be fully qualified to perform the task.
Schools are not agents of propaganda for special interests. The curriculum should be controlled by the consideration of general educational values. The content of textbooks should be scientific and accurate. No child in school should be subjected to the influences of special advertising or salesmanship activities.
Schools are not agents for the general welfare which is achieved by common training of all citizens.
Demands for extensive vocational training programs, and special social privileges increase the cost excessively and complicate the problem of training for American Citizenship. In a sense schools are designed to perpetuate traditions and culture.
Teachers should not use this as a justification for not training pupils to solve the problems of the present and to face the future.
When time is limited some of the traditional requirements may have to go.
Broad aims demand a variety of program. The new school cannot be run as was the old school.
Teachers should not try to develop independence in children by old school-master autocracy.
Parents must not cry for the type of management of the good old days.
Both must see the problem involved in the new demands of the school.
Misuse of marks, test results and formal assignments lead to misunderstanding.
Teachers often proclaim the breadth of aim but reward and judge only by absolute results in formal learning.
Parents often demand recognition for children which will be unfairly influential in their standard of values. In both cases too much emphasis on the uniform intellectual results leads to cheating or other manifestation of fear.
Both school and home must adjust in programming.
Absence interferes with the regularity of school work.
Over emphasis by teachers on attendance often cause serious home embarrassments. The only ground for adjustment is for each to do the thing that is for the best of the child.
Motives must inhere in each institution, but one may supplement the other.
Teachers should supplement interest in school work and develop in the pupils the drive that will carry it forward.
Home approval gives zest to school work.
Parents must develop purposes in the minds of children for doing the work of the home.
Teachers make this more attractive by encouragement and recognition. One fundamental principle should guide all of these seeming points of conflict?school and the parental home are both temporary in the life of the child.
Both are instruments of cultural training for a different life from either one.
The Relationships between responsibilities and support. In origin school is a secondary institution. Its function was delegated to it by parents. It remains a service institution supported by public funds. If civilization is to continue the functions now performed by public education, must continue to be performed either in school or elsewhere. If they are performed in school they must be paid for by taxation. If performed in the home or by volunteer activity they will be paid for in other ways. It is a doctrine ingrained in American life that property shall be taxed for the education of children. If a group of workers are to be trained specially for public school work they should be assured a professional employment status and a living income. The service is to the children. People now are spending from two to four percent of their income for the education of the children. They must continue such support. Economy in organization and management should be secured through Boards of Education. The school profession cannot maintain schools without the support of the people who created the schools to perform a cooperative function. It is clearly the responsibility of the school profession to conduct good schools at all times. It is clearly the responsibility of the public to support good schools. Neither can shift the burden to the other. Case in which class conflict between school workers and tax payers develop there is present a misunderstanding of the principles set forth in this lesson. Counts says (The American Road to Culture, pp. 16-17) "Confront practically any group of citizens with a difficult problem in the sphere of human relations and they will suggest education as the solution. Indeed this belief in the general beneficence of education is one of the fetishes of American society. In any: Although the processes of tuition may be but obscurely understood by the popular mind, they are thought to possess something akin to magical power. Perhaps the most striking aspect of this phenomenon, however, lies in the fact that education is identified with the work of the school; as a consequence the faith in education becomes a faith in the school, and the school is looked upon as a worker of miracles. In fact, the school is the American road to culture." It is in school that childhood is trained. Home makes life of children secure. Both must work together in understanding and appreciation.