[Vol21 | April 1934 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Looking Back Over the McLelland]

By Sarah M. McLelland N looking back over the years I have been privileged to be in the service of the Master, I recognize and try to appreciate the many blessings I have received from His Spirit, that has been my constant etide while in his service.
Ioremost among the blessings I have received are the friendsnips formed through the association in the homes of the representative people of the Church. In thinking of their hospitality and appreciation. Of our efforts to help them, I am reminded of the words of Oliver Goldsmith, "Til fares the land to hastening ills a prey Where wealth accumulates and men decay.
Princes and Lords may perish or may fade, A breath can make them, as a breath has made, But a bold peasantry, their country's pride When once destroyed can never be supplied." The President of one of our Stakes said the Relief Society was to the Church what the mother was to the nome.
Many of those who travel in the interest of the Church have varied experiences.
During the first years I kept a record of my travels I had many interesting and thrilling adventures travelling on the railroad also on stages that carried the mail and occasionally in farmer's wagons. Ey 1911 the day before Thanksgiving, my companion and I were travelling in northern Arizona. We left St.
Jonns at five a. M. To attend conference in Snowflake, a distance of about fifty miles. The thermometer was below zero.
Arriving at Concho, a small Mexican village, about ten a. M., one of our horses became sick. Our driver, a young boy, tried to get a horse hut failed. We drove on slowly to Rock Point, made a fire and ate our lunch.
After resting, the horse seemed better. We drove for a few miles, when the horse fell down, refusing to move. The day was fairly well spent. We were anxious to move On, as we were not prepared to spend the night camping out, having neither bedding nor food. Our driver suggested that he ride the well horse to Snowflake. But we would not consent to this.
After a time the horse recovered, and we moved on, but alas took the wrong road.
Fortunately my companion had a compass, and we discovered we were going due east instead of north. We at last got on the main road about midnight. We heard the rumbling of wheels. Our rescuers had arrived, and we were thankful. On a trip to Canada and Wyoming in August 1911, we were met at the station in Cardston by members of the Relief Society prepared with umbrellas, as it was raining. It continued to rain a steady down pour for five days. We decided Canada was wet.
Meetings were held as scheduled and well attended. One Sister said she had travelled fifteen hundred miles to attend the meeting
LOOKING BACK OVER THE VEARS 225 and felt fully repaid.
After a visit in Magrath, we travelled on te Billings, Montana. We spent the day there and took the train for Toluca, Wyoming, arriving at tenthirty p. M. We were informed that the railroad track to Cowley had been removed and that we would have to spend the night in the station, as the notel had recently been burned down. The first train that would take us back to Billings would leave at five-thirty the next morning. The outlook was not encouraging, no dinner, no breakfast, no bed. At midnight an automobile drove to the door and a man and woman witha valise and a quilt came in. The quilt was thrown ina corner and the woman laid down. The man opened the valise, took out a deck of cards, and asked us if we would join him in a game of cards. We declined. He then took a bottle from his pocket and offered us a drink of whisky, saying it would fortify us for the night. We refused. He said, "You must be W. C. T. U. Women." The wind began blowing and slamming the doors open.
Lightning flashed and lit up our gloomy quarters. My companion said what would we do if hoboes came in and held us up. The man said I am prepared for that and put his hand on his hip pocket. We felt a bit more secure and rested until daylight.
When the train arrived we were ready for breakfast, but alas the train 'had no diner on.
Arriving at Billings we were hhurried to a narrow gauge train that was leavng for Cowley. We arrived in Cowley in the afternoon having had neither food nor sleep for twenty-four hours. OON after our people had been driven from Mexico, my companion, a young woman representing the Primary Association, and I left _ to visit Arizona, At this time the men were all busy building bridges andclearing away sagebrush and greasewood to make roads A boy was asked to ride on horseback to notify the people of the time of the meeting and that visitors 'had arrived from headquarters.
After dinner our hostess said the team was ready. We were to ride in a light wagon, with a board seat and two chairs. I was asked to drive—to tell the truth I did not know how to drive, but dared not refuse. Our hostess sat beside me holding her baby and a parasol, as it was very warm.
Whenall were seated, I took the reins and whip, cracked the whip, and off they went. I heard a scream but dared not look back. The chairs had tipped over, but fortunately no one was hurt.
That evening we held a meeting in a private house that was used for public meetings.
There were bencies for seats and two kerosene lamps placed on a table furnished the light. We had a glorious meeting.
What wonders the years have brought—electricity, the automobile, the radio. The voices of General Board members have been heard by means of this modern miracle in many countries. We used to travel in white tops, we expect soon to travel by air plane.