[Vol21 | April 1934 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The Eternal Jensen]

SS WHEN LILLIES BLOOM Joseph A. F. Everett The Relief Society Magazine VoL, XXI APRIL, 1934 No. 4
The Eternal Bridge By Nephi Jensen HE study of the visible world may be said to start with a determination to use one's eyes. At the very beginning there is something which may be described as an act of faith—a belief that what our eyes have to show us is significant."
This quotation is not from a sermon. It is not the statement of a dogmatic theologian. It is the conculsion of a world famous scientist. Arthur Stanley Eddington, the in- -ternationally known physicist makes faith the initial incentive in all seeking for fact or truth. The student in the laboratory follows the given formula, not because he knows it is correct but because he believes it is true. If he knew that the formula would produce the desired result there would be no need of experimenting. The student who uses a certain method in solving a problem is impelled by his faith in the correctness of the method. He would gain no knowledge by solving the problem after demonstrating the accuracy of the method. The Botanist looks into the heart of the flower not to see what he knows is there, but to see what he confidently surmises is there. The Astronomer turns his telescope into the depths of space not to find what he has already found, but to find what he confidently believes he will find. We not only "walk by faith', but actually learn by faith. Doctor Benjamin Moore, an outstanding Bio-Chemist states the same truth in other words. In his "Origin of Life" he says, "It is by the imagination that science is led on from discovery to discovery."
This is a inost significant explanation of scientific advancement. And it is profoundly true..
Every advance in science is made by stepping from the known to the unknown.
This step cannot be taken by the aid of absolute knowledge alone, for knowledge has not yet crossed the chasm. Nor can ordinary reason bridge the gulf.
Reason only.
Takes us to the outer edge of what is known. If we go beyond the outskirts of what we know, we must be led by a faculty that outstrips knowledge and reason.
What is the faculty that ventures into the unexplored realm? It is the faculty that quickly infers the unknown from what is known without understanding the relationship between the two. Or in other words, it is the power to get a definite mental image of what has not yet been seen that guides to the unseen. But it is not enough to merely imagine or surmise the existence of 196 the unknown.
Unless the inference of the existence, of what has not yet come within the range of our knowledge awakens within us the belief that we can, by investigation or experimentation actually come to know what we imagine is a fact, we shall not be "led on from discovery to discovery".
Imagination gives us the first glimpse of the unknown; but it is bold venturing faith that carries us across the chasm to new facts and new truths., This power to get an inference or intimation of the unknown by a sort of quick intuition is the secret of all discovery.
This sort of intuition is the lamp of faith that sheds its rays far beyond the frontiers of what has been discovered; and leads the way to new discoveries. 'HE marvelous discoveries of M.
Pasteur in the field of bacteriology furnish a striking illustration of how an inference of unknown truth intensified by an abiding conviction, urges the scientist onward in his ceaseless experimentations. In 1859 there was a great agitation among scientists on the question of life.
Most of the scholars of the time accepted the theory that life came into existence spontaneously from inorganic matter. Philosophers, poets and naturalists assented to this conclusion.
Pasteur did not agree with them. He conceived that the discovery of the secret of fermentation would throw light on the subject. He surmised that fermentation was caused by the contact of living organisms with unliving substance. To start with, it was only a surmise. But back of that surmise was an intense conviction that the inference was true.
That faith spurred him on irresistibly in his painstaking experiments.
Learned associates tried to dissuade him. M.
Biot told him that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE he would never find the secret. But in spite of discouragement, and notwithstanding the illusiveness of the secret, he plodded on through the years. His faith triumphed gloriously. He verified his first intimation. He also discovered that putrefaction is caused by living organisms coming into contact with fleshy and other substances. Out of these simple discoveries came the whole splendid modern theory of the cause of disease. And the man whose faith and industry blazed the way from gross ignorance to enlightenment in the field of medicine, has.
Come to be called the "most perfect man that has ever entered the kingdom of science." While Pasteur was ardently experimenting with tartaric acids in the hope of producing recemic acid, he wrote, "There is an abyss to cross."
There is an abyss to cross in all scientific research. It is the abyss that separates the known from the unknown. It cannot be crossed by mere half-hearted, aimless experimentation. The abyss is often so wide that years of industry are necessary to cross it.
Only faith's foresight can give the courage necessary to accomplish the tremendous task. N the field of invention it is the same quick intuitive inference of the unknown, quickened into action by faith, that carries the inventor onward in his discoveries. In 1826 there were hundreds of men who knew that a.
Current of electricity would instantly pass from one end of a piece of wire to the other.
Knowledge of this simple fact, however, did not lead them to conclude that both ends of the wire at long distances apart might be made to record simultaneously the same characters or figures; and thereby become a means of instantaneous communi- THE ETERNAL BRIDGE cation.
They could not cross the chasm between what was known about electricity and the unknown fact of telegraphy. Why?
Simply because they did not have the lamp of faith. But there was one man who had faith's marvelous intuition. His name is Samuel F. B. Morse.. He quickly inferred from the known fact that electrical energy would make a piece of wire behave the same way at both ends at the same time; that it would be possible to make the two ends of the wire at long distances apart record the same ideas. He not only caught this inference, but with it came the confident belief that the inference was true.
This faith impelled him to make innumerable experiments until in 1835 electrical telegraphy became an_ established fact. HE light of faith has been the torch of progress in the realm of geographical discovery. In 1492, there were many book geographers who accepted the fact of the rotundity of the earth. But these cloistered students of the earth's form and size did not dare venture out on the trackless ocean.
They were without the faith that boldly strikes out into the realm of the unseen and unknown.
They could only reason about the significance of the known geographical facts. And timid reason always hugs close to the shore; it dare not set out upon the vast undiscovered ocean. But at that time there was one most remarkable mariner. His name was Christopher Columbus. He was no more certain than the cloistered geographers that the earth is round. But he had something they did not have. He had something akin to vision. He had faith. By this faith his mind boldly leaped from the idea, 197 of the earth's rotundity to the conclusion that he could sail westward and reach the east coast of India.
This was a most daring conception. It outstripped all that the geo-.
Graphers had ever dreamed of.
This simple mariner was able to outreach all that these book students had conceived, because he was inspired and sustained by an all-seeing and allcomprehending faith. By this sublime faith he ventured out into the trackless and specter-invested ocean. By faith he was nerved with courage to sail on, even when his crew mutinied and insisted upon returning. By this faith a new world was given to the old. "Oh! World, thou choosest not the better part, It is not wisdom to be only wise, And on the inward vision close the eyes; But it is wisdom to believe the heart.
Columbus found a world and had no chart Save one that Faith deciphered in the skies; To trust the soul's invincible surmise Was all his science and his only art. Our knowledge is a torch of smoky pine That lights the pathway but one step ahead Across the void of mystery and dread. Bid then the tender light of Faith to shine By which alone the mortal heart is led Into the thinking of the thought Divine." J' the realm of the spiritual faith is preeminently the key that unlocks the door to the vast unknown.
Between the finite and the infinite 198 there is limitless space. Who can cross this vast unexplored domain? The scientist cannot look across with his powerful telescope. One astronomer tried, and ended by saying; "I have swept the heavens and have not found God." The philosopher with his profound thoughts about the ultimate reality has not been able by reason to find God. Herbert Spencer tried, and ended his profound and exhaustive studies with the sad confession "God is unknowable."
This is a pathetic acknowledgment of the futile search for the Maker of all, by one who failed to follow his own formula or the ascertainment of truth. In his "First Principles" Spencer says, "We only know things through phenomena."
Translated into simpler terms, this great basic rule, governing the acquisition of knowledge might be made to read, "We only know things by the way they act, or by what they manifest." In his quest of knowledge of nature, Spencer followed this simple guide. He went direct to nature to see what nature manifests or reveals. But he never went direct to God, by faith, to see what God reveals to those who seek him. NE greater than Herbert Spencer, by simple faith bridged the gulf between man and God. In 1820, Joseph Smith, then a lad fourteen years of age became deeply concerned about the salvation of his soul.
Revival meetings in which excited appeals to the emotions were made, accentuated his anxiety. The divided and distracted cbndition of Christianity, the fierce conflict of religious opinion, and clashing of creeds, added to the perplexity of his youthful mind. The din of disagreeing and clamoring priests, moved the boy to ask, "Which of all the churches is right?"
This is a most RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE profound question for a boy of fourteen.
While this puzzling question distressed his earnest soul, he took to reading the scriptures. One day he opened the Bible at the first chapter of James' Letter. His eyes fell upon the faith-stimulating text, "If any of you lack wisdom let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth not." The words of this simple promise went home to the heart of that boy as the very words of the God of all wisdom. He believed God had actually made the promise; and that He would make it good.
Impelled by this simple abiding faith, he went into the woods near his father's home and there bowed his head and lifted his troubled heart in pleading to God. As he heroically prayed there appeared above him a beautiful pillar of light transcending in brilliancy the light of the noon day sun.
Encircled with this glorious light stood two 'purified, glorified, immortalized beings in express and majestic human form. One of them pointed to the other and said, "This is my beloved son, hear him."
That day that boy saw the glorified form of the Omnipotent One, and heard the voice that spoke in the morning of time when quivering matter was organized to make a beautiful world He is the greatest discoverer of modern times. He discovered for modern man the only key to the knowledge of God. He found that deepest and purest joy, of actual contact and fellowship with the Father of all, of which Emerson sang so beautifully. "OQ, when I am safe in my sylvan home, And I mock at the pride of Greece and Rome; THE ETERNAL BRIDGE And when I am stretched beneath the pines, Where the evening star so holy shines, j I laugh at the lore and the pride of man, At the sophist schools, and the learned clan: For what are they all in their high conceit, When man in the bush with God may meet." "THE spot on which that boy prayed is a sacred shrine. It is the cradle of modern faith.
Within that sylvan temple on that hallowed day, that boy discovered the lost key to the knowledge of God. The hopegiving story of his triumphant quest of certainty concerning the Most High has awakened in the hearts of tens of thousands of men and women the undaunted faith that actually seeks and finds; and asks and receives. The glowing light of this living faith has sent afar its rays in an age of doubt, and skepticism, and turned uncertainty to assurance and despair into hope.
This faithstimulating power has done more to increase the spiritual riches of our modern age, than thousands of volumes of speculations about God and His economy. 199 N every field of scientific research there is the constant barrier of the unknown to surmount. All scientific progress is made by surmounting this enduring barrier. In the world of invention it is the same. The inventor makes his inventions by boldly venturing across the frontiers of the unknown. The discoverer sails upon unchartered seas, and travels over trackless wastes to give mankind a more extended knowledge of the world. In the spiritual realm, poets, philosophers and prophets have struggled, through the ages, for intimate knowledge of the unseen God. In all of these centuries of ceaseless research, endless inventions, startling discoveries, and eager quests of God, the torch of faith has led the way. It has lighted the path over the barriers of science; it has awakened the confidence that has guided the inventor in his painstaking experiments; it has kindled the ardor of the discoverer and sent him to the unseen corners of the world, and it has fired the prophets with the deathless zeal to reach out with undoubted assurance for intimate, conscious, loving fellowship with Him who is invisible.