[Vol21 | April 1934 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: The Prodigal Sons Bell]

Anne felt tears in her eyes burning to be shed. But she forced them back and put her arms around Peter's neck. "T love you, Peter,' was all she said. ( To be continued) The Prodigal Son's Mother Speaks By M. Bell O! Son, my son!
Didst thou come home again: Be glad dear heart, 'twas not in vain. Thy mother's eyes no longer run In tears for thee, O son, my son! Let's celebrate and make amends, Rejoice, rejoice, call all thy friends, Delicious things of earth we'll bring. He that was lost'returned—let's sing! And you, my firstborn faithful lad Woulds't make thy mother's spirit sad? O!
Jealousy depart, depart— For all we have, we ever owned Is yours forever, yours. Alone. My son!
Thou art the pure in heart. r) Awarded First Honorable Mention in the 1 e Eliza Roxy Snow Poetry Contest By Blanche Robbins If this be Life 'tis less I ask; not more; Not more of all that crowds and stifles me; Not more of all that thinks and feels And almost lives my life for me; Not more of this. I would that I Could lift my hands and push it all away And clear a space to pause and feel and live. I smile andinod; you nod and smile; We meet each other on our way; We shop; We call on friends; We talk of clothes; We dress in style; We comb our hair a certain way; There's dinner here; a luncheon there; A dollar to some charity; "O, yes, we have our work to do But soon are through." We buy and sell; go here and there See this and that; We laugh and chat; are most correct And settle all the problems of the world With our small talk, And all the days are filled with countless, nameless tasks That never fill a need or win a race Or mean a battle won. "Tis not enough! And through it all 1 go my untouched way And Life is passing on. No more than this! 'Tis true This surface brightly shines to those Whose hearts are there Or those who envyingly look on. But underneath are tears and sighs and heartaches And souls who need the kindly touch of someone caring; The warmth of home; the cheer of friendship true, Gray heads who need The forceful hand of dauntless youth; Young hearts, who need The steadying hand of mellowed age; Dimpled babes, who need A loving mother' s watchful care; Empty mother-arms that fain would hear The faltering voice of childhood's prayer. And all the days are filled with countless tasks That'fill a need or win a race Or mean a battle won. 'Tis true, my skirts were softly lifted, Life As you were passing by— But now,-I hold you gently, Life aad draw you nigh.