[Vol21 | April 1934 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: How to Choose a D]

Choose a Birthplace By H. E, Kleinschmidt, M. D., Director, Health Education, National Tuberculosis Association AM a baby about to be born. My shipping tag reads, 'Somewhere in U. S. A.) which pleases me, for there the fields are green, the people alert, and progress marches on. But in what city, town or hamlet shall I be born? It makes a difference.
Life is safer in some places than in others. "Tf I die as a baby, I shall not taste life.
Adolescenceis fresh with promise; shall the tingle of youth be made bitter by 'sickness or death? When I am an adult, enjoying the sense of mastery and with children of my own—surely, to be interrupted then would be cruel.
When middle age drops the fruits of toil into my lap, that is not the time to be snatched away by some needless disease, is it? Not until the mellow years fade into a restful twilight shall I have tasted life to the full." So spoke the unborn baby. He wrinkled his funny little brow and went on: "I am told, too, that length of years alone does not bring out the satisfying flavor of life. I don't want to be handicapped, held down, or intimidated by disease. My wings of ambition must not be clipped by some vigor-sapping defect that might have been avoided or corrected in youth.
Give me life abundantly: the kind that is measured in length by a full calendar and in breadth by a glorious vigor." The Baby Sizes Us Up "T am told that the hazards of entering' some parts of the United States as a new baby are considerable. For instance, last year in one city 12 out of each 1,000 babies died, while in another only 3 out of 1,000 died. You see how important it is to select my birth place. Who is going to see to it that my mother is capable of bearing a healthy baby? Who is going to advise my mother how to nourish me while I develop into a baby so that mv teeth, bones, muscles and nerves will not be starved of some essential element when I am born?
Whose watchful care will assure ime that I shall not suffer a brain injury when I am born and become a blithering idiot the rest of my life?" The unborn baby might ask many more pertinent questions about what is being done to lessen the health risks of infancy, such as summer diarrhea, which claims about 7 out of every 1,000 births annually, the contagious diseases, such as diphtheria, measles, scarlet fever, and the deforming effects of unwise nutrition. JLooking ahead to adolescence and early adult life, he might inquire as to the safeguards the community provides against tuberculosis.
Syphilis and other infections. He would investigate to learn if all that is possible is being done to prevent heart disease, kidney degeneration, malaria, typhoid, and other disorders common in middle age, to say nothing of scores of physical handicaps which can be decreased by intelligent and prompt action.. A Storehouse of Health Medical science has made great- HOW TO CHOOSE A BIRTHPLACE er strides in the past 25 years than ever before in the world's history. The storehouse of health-conserving knowledge is vast. But it is useless unless it is put within reach of all. The business of public health is to bring this knowledge to the people. It has grown to bea specialty. The time has passed when an enlightened community may safely leave health protection to the mercy of politics. To obtain the benefits offered by science today, and to prevent disease, it is necessary to act as an organized group.
Typhoid fever, for example, is spread chiefly by polluted water and unclean milk supplies.
Organized as we are, one family alone could hardly protect itself from this disease, but the entire community, planning together, does this very effectively. Moreover, disease germs recognize no boundary lines enclosing towns and villages; the area of disease control must be a wide one—state and nation-wide. To carry out up-to-date measures requires a few specialists who know what is in the storehouse of knowledge, such as a trained health officer, public health nurses, a laboratory technician, some- 221 one trained in educational methods, and various others versed in the particular branches of public health science. The days of the one-horse buggy have passed. No longer are roads maintained by villages, towns and individual farmers. All of our social interests are broadening. The obsolete system of public health, which consisted chiefly of emergency control of epidemics by well-meaning but inadequately equipped local officers, must give way to the modern, centralized supervision of health promotion and disease prevention.
Health ls Purchasable What will it cost?
With the old system, the cost of health protection averages, in most communities, less than a cent per week, per person. A modern health department can be maintained for about $2.00 per capita, per year.
Schools cost about eight times as much and public roads even more. "Yes," said the canny little rascal still in the Nowhere—'I'd like to alight in a county or city in which there is a sound health department."