[Vol21 | April 1934 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Men Sone of Kirkham]

My Song of Songs By Henry F. Kirkham
Oh, once I sang grandly the glory of war, Of the bugle's clear call, the guns' sullen roar; But always there ran through that martial refrain The cries of the wounded, the tears of the slain.
Again, I sang proudly the song of the great, Of the fullness of life, the masters of fate; Yet softly as shadows that creep through a nave, Came faint echoes sighing?'all lost in the grave."
So ever runs lightly that sad note I name, "What use of mere riches, what hope in mere fame?" When even the love of a man for a maid Like roses may wither, like twilight may fade.
Still somewhere, I'm sure, there's a song I shall sing, Full-throated and pure as a lark on the wing; Like the stars of heaven resplendent above, Just a song of sweet childhood, a song of true love.
SERVING THE MISSIONARY
MISSIONARY PROGRAMS
We have always been the recognized headquarters for printed missionary programs. Courtesy, promptness, and most reasonable prices, characterize this branch of our service. Most prospective missionaries know that they can save time and trouble by seeing us first.
STAMPING NAMES ON BOOKS
Expert workmen assure artistic gold stamping work. A missionary's name on a book not only marks that book as his, and lessens the chance of its loss, but also immeasurably enhances its value in his eyes.
The Deseret News Press 29 RICHARDS STREET SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
The University of Utah Summer School offers excellent training for social workers, including public health nurses. Courses are offered in: "The Field of Social Work," "Family Case Work," "Mental Hygiene," "Child Psychology," "Administration of a Public Health Program." Other courses in Sociology, Economics, English, Home Economics, Hygiene, Education, Philosophy, will also be very helpful to officers and teachers in the Relief Society. Auditor's fee, $3.00 per course; public lectures, free.
Two major social problems of today will be dealt with in six-weeks courses and lectures by outstanding authorities:
Thomas Nixon Carver, Professor of Political Economy, Emeritus, Harvard University! "The Distribution of Wealth," and "The Economics Foundations of Society."
Dr. Henry Neumann, Leader, Brooklyn Society for Ethical Culture: "Character Education," and "Ethical Values in Literature."
Six-weeks Session........ June 11?July 20 Post Session.............-July 25?August 17
Write the President's Office, University of Utah, for Bulletin