[Vol21 | April 1934 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field]

Notes from the Field Granite Stake. HE very remarkable results accomplished by the Granite Stake Relief Society is evidence of what can be done, and we are printing it in detail as it may be suggestive to other stakes who find the visiting teachers' work something of a problem. Visiting Teachers' Program: Important indeed is the visiting teachers' meeting, held the first Tuesday of each month at one o'clock.
After singing one verse of a song, prayer is offered and the Topic presented.
Then comes a very choice period to the President, a time when she can get close to her supervisors and teachers, a time when she can have a heart to heart talk with them, an opportunity to present the rignt ethics of teaching in the home. The Teachers' Books are then distributed and the meeting adjourned. The month at one.
Fifteen o'clock the Teachers' Report Meeting is held.
After singng and uniting in prayer, roll is called. The ward is divided into districts with a supervisor over so many blocks and two teachers are assigned to each block. The supervisor calls on one teacher of each group to report on the number of families visited and the percentage, this is of the homes assigned to her. She also reports as to what success she has had in presenting the Topic.
While she is giving this report, her companion teacher hands to the President a written confidential report of homes or conditions that the President should know about. Her report book and contributions collected are then 'handed to the Secretary.
Teacher who gave the verbal report second Tuesday of each © The next month the will change places with her companion who has handed in the written report and thus each numble, timid teacher acquires confidence in herself as she stands to make this brief -report.
Guided by the written report the President makes the first visit to the home and decides whether the case needs the welfare worker, the sunsnine worker, or the aid of the President.
Through a systematic plan of procedure and well trained teachers, such results as increased attendance, renewal of friendships, a spirit of harmony and love, witn advancement, progress and growth, may be enjoyed, making duty a pleasure.
Thus bringing officers to a realization that "whosoever in the darkness lighteth another with a lamp, lignteth himself also." The Sunshine Department: Happy indeed are the officers of Granite Stake for the achievements of the sisters in the various wards who work in this special activity.
Some eight or nine years ago our dear President, Emmaretta G. Brown, saw wnat might be accomplished, or, in fact, caught the vision of a need in Granite Stake for a work to be done by this group, such as is now being carried on. To her, their work was not merely to minister to the homebound souls, but to carry good cheer, happiness and love, or in a word, "SUNSHINE,"' to any and all who might be prevented, either by physical or spiritual disability, from full enjoyment of the blessings of Relief Society work. By permission of President Clarissa Williams, the name ''Sunshine Committee" was substituted for '"Homebound Committee,' and the NOTES FROM THE FIELD field of labor of this 'activity enlarged.
Thus the Presidents are relieved of much work which previously fell upon them. The Department of Sunshine Work is maintained in the stake organization, with a member of the board taking charge at all union meetings.
Care is taken to present helpful material for the guidance of the ward groups. We have an average attendance of forty-five women at these meetings each month.
From the beginning the department has been self-sustaining. <A circulating library has been built up during the last three years. A Sunshine party was held in the Stake House, the admission charge being a book or its equivalent. A librarian is in charge and good magazines are circulated in addition to the books.
This service is especially appreciated by the homebound in each ward. At union meeting, in addition to our own fine Relief Society Magazine, we have studied Dr. Harry Emerson Fosdick's appropriate work Tzelve Tests of Character: also, we have discussed special articles by such current writers as Bruce Barton, Kathleen Norris, Marjorie Shuler, Angelo Patri and others. We emphasize the value of motivating Numan interest stories, and develop in our meetings the relating of interesting actual experiences of our Sunshine workers.
These are highly faith-promoting..
This has led to the compiling of our "Sunshine Gem Book."' We have a "Good-Thought Exchange."
Enough copies of these are brought so that each ward committee is supplied. In some cases these are being carefully preserved and filed, and no doubt, for some will become treasures.
There is a very live, active interest in this work, and the native initiative of the workers is manifest in the remarkable ways discovered for 229 usefulness and enlargement of the field of service.
Sunshine workers are the representatives of their President, and are delegated to bear her message of cheer, helpfulness, love and sunshine —the real Gospel message of '"'Good News." ° As a result of this carefully planned department we are reaping the joy of seeing women who were indifferent, women where the spark of desire for the Gospel was burning at a low ebb, awake to a love of the work and become some of our finest and most earnest workers of today. The Sunshine workers in Granite Stake have become to the Relief Society what the missionaries are to the Church in the world. Positive 'reaction of the simplest, yet most powerful forces of religious life is the result.
With the closing of this year's work, Sunshine work is a beautiful part of Relief Society. It goes right to the heart and helps. It isa service simply and humbly done in the name and spirit of the Master. Grant Stake. ROM another one of our city stakes comes the report of the work and business for the year.
Under the able leadership of Mrs. Winnifred B. Daynes, Mrs. Amy E. Neff, and Mrs. Marie H. Tanner.
Very splendid work in the departments of the Relief Society was accomplished, but the work and business seems quite otttstanding.
Activities of the Grant stake for 1932 and 1933: Most of the wards gave a bazaar, a dinner, a play and a flower show.
Five wards reported mending, cleaning, pressing and patching for special families.
Exchanging recipes of candy and other recipes.
Twelve of our wards took up this group work, eacn ward reported increased attendance. One 230 ward formed a mothers' club and met one extra evening in addition to the meeting on the work and business day.
Another ward had a kindergarten department.
This cared for 16 to 24 children each Tuesday afternoon; 24 young mothers joined at that time.
Another ward had 18 young mothers join. The stake has nad some very excellent reactions from this group work.
Report from Young Mothers' Group: This is one of our groups that meet on our work and business days. Our aim for the Society: 1. To increase membership. 2. To stimulate interest on work and business day. 3. To make a place for young women in our Society. Our aim for Mothers: 1. To raise the standard of motherhood. 2. To encourage large fauilies by showing value. 3. To enjoy our children more. 4. To prove that the home is the first and greatest institution for the development of men. 5. A mother's prerogative is to give the first and greatest training. 6.. To relieve the over-burdened mother. Our success can only be measured by our members.
There is a steady increase in members. Teton Stake. HE Teton Stake Flower Show and Art Exhibit was held at Driggs, Idaho in the Fall of 1933. The ward officers loyally supported the stake board in its efforts and the day proved an overwhelming success. A fine array of needlework and novelties in the sewing line, canned and fresh fruits, vegetables, potted plants, rugs, quilts, oil paintings, etc., adorned the stake house. A large RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and appreciative audience listened to a program of song's, speeches and a short play put on by Relief Society members under the direction of the stake board.
Refreshments were served to all at the close of the day. The flowers and fruit were exceptional considering the unusual water shortage and prolonged heat. Tintic Stake. N September 19, 1933, the Tintic stake Relief Society held a class leaders and visiting teachers convention at Eureka, Utah. The morning session was devoted to class leaders' work. The program consisted of talks from the stake class leader, musical numbers, roll call, address by General Board Member Jennie B. Knight, and the introduction of the slogan "T will Respond." At the door one of the stake board presented each member with a program and a small gold ribbon, upon which the slogan was printed. A member of the stake board introduced the slogan in this session in a very clever and impressive manner. A poem composed by one of our members was read.
This told exactly what this slogan stood for and all were asked to accept it and live up to it to the best of their ability. At noon a free luncheon was served to all present. For the dessert, cookies were served with the slogan also written on them. The afternoon session had for its main theme the work of the visiting teachers. The demonstration given by the stake board was original, and showed how a teachers' meeting should be conducted the first Tuesday of each montn. Sister Alice Reynolds of the B. Y. U.
Gave an interesting and inspirational talk. We appreciated having both Sisters Knight and Reynolds with us.
Members of the Priesthood and Relief Society workers numbering 104 were in attendance at this convention.  
THE GENERAL BOARD
Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Rosannah C. Irvine President First Counselor Second Counselor General Geeretary and Treasurer Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. 'Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor  Manager: - Assistant Manager Mary Connetty Kimsat - - Louise Y. Rosison - - -: Amy Brown LyMAn