[Vol21 | April 1934 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Happenings Cannon]

Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon ISS FLORENCE E. ALLEN, appointed in March, judge on the federal circuit court of appeals, was born in Salt Lake City. She is the first woman to receive an appointment to that court, second only to the supreme court of the United States. LIZABETH PU-YI, the new empress of Japan, is noted for her beauty and modern ideas. She is the daughter of a Manchu business man and was educated by an -\merican school mistress.
Oriental tradition and occidental training make a unique combination for a queen. A®ERID of Sweden, Belgium's new queen, has long since won the love and admiration of her subjects by her gentle grace and beauty. PRINCESS ALICE, Countess of Athlone, has found a new thrill.
With her husband, the Earl and two friends she recently took a stroll on the floor of the ocean, exploring the wonders of the coral garden peopled with brilliant colored fish, near Rose island, one of the Bahamas. ONJA HENEI, world skating champion, gave an exhibition of her grace before an audience of 15,000 people including the Swedish royal family at Oslo. ELEN JACOBS, America's tennis champion, joined the world tournament at Kingston, Jamaica. It is rumored that both Miss Jacobs and Helen Wills Moody will go to commercial tennis after 1934. VIRGINIA and Massachusetts have both turned down the Child Labor law.
Only twenty have thus far ratified. M ISS HELEN HAYES was chosen by the dramatic critics in a poll taken by the Associated Press as the best actress on Broadway for the year 1933, while May Robson, Katharine Hepburn and Diana Winward received the screen's highest awards. GUSAN B. ANTHONY was eulogized in Congress on her birtaday, February 15, her 114th anniversary. That Congress at whose doors she knocked for over 40 years for recognition of women.
Times have surely changed. R. LUCY L. W. WILSON of Philadelphia has been awarded the Bok trophy—a gold medal and a check for $10,000.
This makes her unofficially the "First Citizen" of the Quaker City. OSEPHINE DASKAM BACON has a new juvenile story out this spring. Mrs.
Bacon won the first prize for an international hymn based on Beethoven's Ninth Symphony called the 'Ode to Joy." MBS. P. V. CARDON of Logan, Utah, has written a book in verse on Indian legends to which Mrs. F. P.
Champ has given a setting of music, the introduction is by Pres. Anthony W. Ivins. ADY BURGHCLERE has edited and published the interesting correspondence of Lady Salisbury.
Letters from nearly all the notables of the Victorian period are included. LARA GERBERT has edited a beautiful anthology of dedications and prefaces of Elizabethan literature, which is especially delightful reading for devotees of that period.
By Holly Baxter Keddington HOBBY is a favorite pursuit or object. Nearly everyone has a hobby of some type or other. One of the most common hobbies is gardening. This one activity can be divided into numerous interesting hobbies. For example, collecting various varieties of bulbs, shrubs, annual or perennial flowers, or collecting strange plants for indoor culture. Gardening seems to be a seasonal hobby but the real "hobby-ist" will carry his activity on through the seasons with plans and work preparatory to outdoor labor. April is the month when most of the garden preparation and planting is done. Try some new variety of shrub or annual this spring and give away the part of your perennials that crowd other growth. If you have a hobby would you write to me about it? Later we hope to suggest interesting hobbies to readers of this page. Possibly yours is just the one we want. AVE you read the book "One Hundred Million Guinea Pigs?" Whether you believe every statement in it or not, the book is most interesting. You and I are the Guinea Pigs of the book upon whom are thrust the myriad products on the market today. We are literally "April-fooled" by flowery, not-sotrue advertising.