[Vol21 | April 1934 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Editorial | Title: Let Peace]

Vol. XXI APRIL, 1934 No. 4
EDITORIAL
Let Us Have Peace
AGAIN do the Easter anthems ring. Out from the Churches with their triumphant message "He is Risen." Christ the Resurrected Redeemer of mankind has been termed The Prince of Peace. Yet his professed followers have through the ages prepared for war and have again and again followed Mars. After the World War people thought that never again while those lived who could remember the ravages and terrible consequences of this conflict would war be tolerated by civilized countries. Yet ever since the Armistice was signed have there been rumblings and nations have prepared and talked about the likelihood of war. During the last four years there have been successful or unsuccessful revolutions in half of the countries of the World.
Mrs. Florence Brewer Boeckel, Educational Director of the National Council for the Prevention of War, says, "It is one of the paradoxes of this century of progress that the world has made notable progress toward peace, and yet stands as close to war at the end as at the beginning of the century. Our present situation can best be described by saying that we are holding war at bay. We have erected barricades against the event of war but behind them the war system, far from diminishing, has steadily increased. Vaster sums than ever before are being spent upon it. Its weapons are more deadly. Can we hope that the barricades will hold if we make no direct attack upon the forces of opposition?"
Terrible as were the wars of the past, those of this day are infinitely worse. Its destruction has been multiplied manifold. Now not only are soldiers mutilated and killed, but women and children are attacked by bombs, poison gases, etc. The peace problem is complex. The unprepared nation invites attack, hence, it is necessary that each nation be prepared to defend itself in case of hostilities. Yet it does seem that an unwarranted expenditure of money is being made in these preparations. Senator William H. King says: "The United States during the past eight or ten years has been spending for military purposes approximately $200,000,000 annually in excess of that expended by any other country. There have been appropriated each year during the period referred to between $700,000,000 and $800,000,000 for the army and the navy and in addition many hundreds of millions for veterans pensions, etc., resulting from the military activities of our government."
Is it not incongruous that the Children's Bureau had a hard struggle to get an appropriation of $350,000, while the same Congress in the same month appropriated two and a half times that amount for breeding and boarding the horses of the National Guard. Other funds provided for the horses of the Cavalry and the Army. The same Congress appropriated $120,000, "for the encouragement of the breeding of riding horses suitable for the Army."
If public opinion is sufficiently aroused against this terrible expenditure for war purposes, the appropriations will be cut down. For not only does the Government yield to the pressure of financial interests, but it also yields to the pressure of large numbers of voters. If Civilization is to continue, we must have peace for it is the means of carrying on civilized life. While the joyous Easter season is with us let us remember the teachings of our Master and determine to walk in the paths of peace. Let us create public sentiment so that we shall spend no more money for armies and navies than is absolutely necessary for our protection. We can cut down our preparation for war and merely expend what is necessary for our safety.