[Vol21 | April 1934 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: My Picture of Romney]

My
Picture of Life 
By Thomas Cottam Romney LIKE to think of life as continuous like a stream of water, deepening and broadening as it goes.
Youth is represented by the stream at its source where the water expresses itself in its varying moods. Now it gurgles, now it moans and then it bursts forth into a boisterous roar as it dashes and splashes against the boulders and rockribbed banks that seek to keep it confined within legitimate bounds.
Then come moments of calm when its surface is unruffled and the only noise to be heard is a tiny rippling sound reminding one of the gentle but prolonged laughter of a college girl.
Maturity is symbolized in the ever deepening channel where the water has relatively ceased its boisterous moods and moves forward in graceful sweeps with now and then a splash, and an eddy, as some obstruction obtrudes itself to prevent its forward progress. Old age is reached almost unobserved except for the growing depth of the water which now has slackened its speed and a deeper silence broods over its surface, thus heralding its approach to the regions of an unknown sea. The dashing, rolicking stream might furnish sport for the adventurous angler but the great quarries of delicious trout are to be found in the deeper depths of the stream. Similarly, the prospector dredging for gold might enhance his values sligntly from the rocky bottom of the swift on-rushing torrent but the major deposits are to be found in the sands deeply laid beneath the surface of the water.
Thus it is with human life. The greater depths of human emotion and life's richer meanings are to be found in the afternoon and evening of life when the hustle and bustle of youth have given place to a spirit of calm. It is then when the melodies and harmonies of life are expressed in their deepest and richest tones and when the materials of life's experiences are woven into a beautiful pattern, whose colors are deep and whose texture has become firm through the passing of time. Youth, maturity and age are thus blended into one grand symphony of color, sound and pattern with a peaceful henediction over all. How to.