[Vol21 | April 1934 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: We Need a Baird]

I We
Need a Garden 
By Afton Free Batrd IMES like these we need a garden. I don't entirely mean a practical need, although a neat little vegetable garden might be a splendid help during a time of forced holidays and cut budgets; but there is a human need, also. Did you ever realize that? Of course all garden fans soon learn what a garden can do to strengthen them, not only physically but spiritually as well. Gardens are real soul builders, It is said that the Japanese people have realized this fact and made better use of this knowledge, than any other race. Most every traveler will agree that the outstanding impression of Japan is "Gardens". There, they consider a garden a natural necessity, and, it is said, they respect them and make daily use of them much as they do their temples. One Japanese, speaking of his flower garden, said this: "I come here daily for a quiet hour. I look into my garden and become one with, Nature, as it were; for long ago my garden and I tbecame 'bosom friends. There is something in its quiet beauty, its simple and natural purity, its fulfilling of a plan and purpose, in its perfect growth, in its tranquility. All the virtues I cannot find elsewhere or in human companionship, my garden gives me. I come here to solve all my problems." A simple little garden—a few flowering shrubs, a pool, plants covered with colorful bloom, a smooth green lawn—can do these things for you and me. Gardens can do other wonderful things for us, also. They bring us friends. Many people who otherwise would feel they had not time to visit us so often will come to see our garden, and soon become fast friends. Strange as it may seem, after moving into a new neighborhood, I lived for many months without even knowing the names of my immediate neighbors. Of course, when we happened to meet entering or leaving our homes we greeted each other with a nod, but it was not until spring, when I went out into my garden to see what havoc the late frosts had done, that I looked up to see several smiling faces on the other side of the fence. Within half an hour we were digging and chatting side by side. A few little frost-bitten plants had done what months of courteous greetings could not do. There is one little woman who comes to the spring in my garden for water. She usually sits down on one of the large rocks and quietly rests for awhile. One day 1 walked down to speak to her. She looked up and smiled. "I hope you don't mind my sitting here," she said. "When the cares and anxieties of my home and family become almost too much for me, I use the spring-water as an excuse and walk over here. There is something about a natural little garden like this, that has a restful, soothing influence over me." If these things are true, during these times of hurry and scurry, of anxiety and care, we all need a garden, that tranquility may not be a stranger within our hearts, "Believest Thou This?"