[Vol21 | April 1934 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature]

Literature (Third Week in June)
LIFE AND LITERATURE
SPIRITUAL VOICES IN MODERN LITERATURE
"I hear a voice that sings: Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, As the swift seasons roll!" "The Chambered Nautilus" ?Holmes
Nature is God's work: Civilization is Man's work. Throughout the ages the activities of man, exploration and conquest, organization and leadership, science and invention, philosophy and art have combined to make the world of today. Change and decay may have removed the visible evidences of the past; but always the ideals of yesterday are stamped ineffaceably upon the monuments of tomorrow. On and on, man has striven in order to make a world in which he could realize the greatest freedom and the highest development. On every hand is the newness of a modern world. The arrangements of everyday life are new and the intellectual structure by which we interpret life is new, but there is a realm of human experience that never changes?love and hate, hope and fear, motives and impulses, joys and griefs. The march of civilization has left the realm of human experiences unaltered. The spiritual substance of literature is from the abiding realm of human experience, the ideas, feelings, sympathies, emotions, and passions which move and inspire men's lives.
Spiritual Values of Literature
Literature as a criticism of life can be more than an explanation and an interpretation; it can present a vision of what life can be at its best. The complexity of modern life has been a shattering influence to many. "Through religion and through art men have found rest from the tension of life." Man's greatest struggle has been a spiritual struggle, a struggle for self-realization. The Greeks *believing "Man was the measure of all things" sought earthly perfection by a system of art, education, and philosophy.
This was a great gift to man. The Hebrews struggled unceasingly for moral integrity because they 'believed 'Man is the immortal son of God;" their gift to the world is the Bible, the supreme book of religion.
Great art has sought to embody the Hellenic ideals of beauty and form with the spiritual ideals of the Hebrews. It has been the aim of great art, music, literature, painting, sculpture, and architecture?to bring to man the true significance of life.
This spiritual quality of great art has two values; first, it has brought to man a deeper understanding of his spiritual life, second, a knowledge of human nature that enables him to meet the conflicts of life with courage and dignity. The great literary masterpieces of the past have come down to us today as the best loved books of the ages, and have joined with religion in keeping alive the torch of faith in the ultimate destiny of man.
Their message challenges man to rise to moral grandeur, to the joy of a perfect peace that comes through Self-realization. ?
Among the great masterpieces of literature that are valued for their | ethical and religious values are numbered 240 "Prometheus Bound" by Aeschylus, teaching that disobedience to Moral Law brings suffering and suffering teaches; "The Book of Job," author unknown, deals with the mystery of human suffering;. "Everyman," a morality, with the message that "deeds can never be undone;" the dramas of Shakespeare laying bare the forces that determine human character; ?'Paradise Lost" by Milton, "justifying the ways of -God to man;" "Faust" by Goethe revolving around the problems "What is the secret of Life, Death, and Nature" and "What Brings: Purification and Self-realization;" "Prometheus Unbound" by Shelley showing that Love and Righteousness must, in the very nature of things, eventually triumph over injustice. The combined message of all is in the words of Viscount Morley: "to lead us into inner moods of settled peace, to touch the depth and calm the tumult of the soul, to give us quietness, strength, steadfastness, and purpose, whether to do or to endure." Spiritual Voices in Modern Literature It is a far cry from Aristotle to Matthew Arnold, yet eacn looked at literature and saw there more than an expression for a mere presentation of life. Today, as in the past, the great writers, each after his own genius, have given expression to a spiritual message.
Among such expressions are included Tennyson's "In Memoriam," Hawthorne's "Scarlet Letter,' | Wordsworth's "Ode to Duty," Browning's "Saul," Masefield's "Everlasting Mercy." Of all the modern writers two are outstanding in their consideration of man as an individual seeking a fullness of life, Henry Ibsen and Ralph Waldo Emerson.
Ibsen and Self-realization In the dramas "Brand," the Saint, and "'Peer Gynt," the Sinner, Ibsen portrays vividly the universal truth, 'Man is his own star." Henry Ibsen was a Norwegian, born in Bergen at the beginning of the nineteenth century. The childhood of Ibsen was colored by the life of Bergen, its wooden mansions, its glorious Christmas festivals, and its wonderful fairs. School and church, madhouse and jail, all part of the town square, they too left an inpression upon the young boy. Prosperous days gave way to adversity bringing mortification and humiliation. Unprepossessing in appearance, the boy began a life of isolation, starving mentally and morally. Apprenticed to an apothecary, Ibsen's leisure was spent in writing verse. In a series of sonnets he implored King Oscar to help Denmark in her struggle for liberty. One of the poems attracted the attention of the owner of the National Theatre of Bergen, 1851. Ibsen began to write for the theatre. The early plays were lyrical in form and idealistic in theme and as such were unsuccessful. Prosperity came later with "The Doll's House,'' demonstrating the possibilities of the drama as an instrument of social reform. Ibsen's fame increased with every new plan. Always the dramatist looked at individuals struggling in the whirlpools of society. Looking at a civilization that was beginning to shake itself loose from religion, he wrote "Brand" and '"'Peer Gynt;" looking at a world needing new social traditions he wrote "A Doll's House" and "Ghosts;" looking at public life that needed leaders of integrity he wrote "An Enemy of the People" and "Rosmersholm;" looking at individual conflicts he wrote "Hedda Gabler,' "The Master Builder," and ''Little Eyolf."
LESSON DEPARTMENT Every audience was thrilled with Nora's independence as she declared, "First of all, I am a woman," in "A Doll's House," and "Ghosts" with its grim echo '"'The sins of the fathers" created a terrific uproar. Ibsen answered with an explanation of his purpose: "I have tried to show you that your sentimentality needs correction, you live in 'A Doll's House;' your society is physically and morally in need of cleansing, it is full of "Ghosts." I have spoken thus for a man shares the responsibility and the guilt of the society to which he belongs." Ibsen, as a man, contemplated mankind. He spoke denouncing, exposing, tearing apart individuals as well as society. Drama served 'him as it had served no 'Master builder" since Shakespeare Brand?The Sinner Ibsen says of "Brand," "It ?ame into being as a result of something I had experienced." That experience was the teaching of the pastor of Skein: "Christianity is a gospel of renunciation, hence it is one of sorrow." 'The gospel of "Brand" is "All or Nothing." Brand failed because he was an idealist representing God as wrathful and jealous demanding sacrifice, and entirely neglecting the ideal "God is a God of love." Pastor Brand, the hero of the drama, adopts as his motto "All or nothing." He is called across the fjord to minister to a dying man. A storm is raging and the pastor calls for volunteers to row the boat. No man responds but a woman volunteers. Only that morning she had become betrothed, but she leaves her lover when he refuses to steer the boat. From that moment Agnes becomes the devoted follower of 241
Brand and later 'nis wife. Both devote themselves to their parish, striving always to eliminate personal weakness. Brand refuses to administer the last sacrament to his mother because she will not give her whole wealth to the church. When a son is born to Agnes and Brand, they see the babe pine for sunshine. They make preparations to leave the village to save the child's life, but eventually the goal "All or nothing" forbids. The babe dies. It is Christmas Eve and Agnes would draw back the curtains so the light might fall on the little grave. Brand forbids it. Later a gypsy calls at the house asking for clothing for her child. Brand bids Agnes give the garments of their child to the woman. Agnes would save one treasure, a little cap, but Brand demands "All or nothing" because this is God's service. As she yields in anguish she cries out, "God is not so hard as you." The struggle is too much for Agnes, she dies and Brand is left, the priest. Now he uses his mother's wealth to build a beautiful church. The peasants help with the work. They are so proud of the new edifice. Angered by this Brand, on the morning of the dedication, locks the door and throws the key into the lake telling the flock "to go home and dress your souls." Requesting the faithful to follow him, Brand leads them to the mountain heights to seek the Ice Church. The peasant girl, Gerd, leads them over the mountain trails. The crowd follows: eagerly at first, but when news of the herring shoal comes the crowd returns to the village. Tired and bleeding Brand goes on alone, nothing daunted. As the avalanche comes taking Brand a voice is heard, 'He is the God of Love." 242
The stupendousness of the creation of "Brand" awes the reader to silence. The beauty of the poetry and the intenseness of the situations carry the message as a melody. The details of the drama may fade but never its message, "All or Nothing." Peer Gynt?The Sinner "Peer Gynt" is a folk-tale, fantastic and imaginative.
Ibsen wrote it as an answer to "Brand." As the situation in "Brand" all need the power of the will to overcome them, so in 'Peer Gynt" every situation presents the opportunity for compromise. He is a type of humanity just as is Brand. While Brand represents the striving of man for a greater self, Peer Gynt represents blind egotism, a soul in which the "Gyntish" self is master. The story opens at the farm of Peer's mother, Ase.
Peer is being scolded for his careless, lazy habits. He is a pleasure-loving rascal like the father before him.
Declaring that he will be "King or Kaiser," he lifts his mother to the low house-roof, and goes to make love to the daughter of a neighboring farmer.
Next we see Peer Gynt at the girl's betrothal feast; he has attended uninvited. For sheer mischief he persuades the bride to elope with him.
Next morning he sends her back to the bridegroom, because he really loves Solveg, a peasant girl. Peer Gynt is outlawed for his mischief and goes to live in the forest.
Solveg out of love for Peer leaves her home and follows him to the forest. He is touched by the girl's love and purity, and is loath to accept the sacrifice. The great scene of the play comes next, the death of Ase. Peer Gynt loves his RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE mother. As she lies suffering waiting for death, Peer comforts her last hours with stories of his childhood and of Norse mythology thus "riding her over the divide."
After the death of his mother, Peer leaves his home.
Years pass and he becomes a "king" of commerce in Morocco. He has been trading in negro slaves for Carolina and idol images for China.
Losing his fortune he is stranded with a band of brigands, later, however, he finds himself crowned emperor of an asylum in -Cairo.
When an old man Peer Gynt returns home. As the vessel nears the shore a wrecked vessel drifts by.
Peer offers to pay the sailors to go and rescue the drowning men.
Denouncing the men as cowards for not helping, Peer Gynt does not risk his own life, however.
Upon landing he goes to his old forest home.
There is Solveg singing and waiting. At last the better self reigns, but it is too late.
Soon the Button-Molder comes to warn him to prepare for death. Peer Gynt has had his chance "'to be a shining button on the vest of the world," but he is found "not to be one thing or another." At last he learns that in seeking his own satisfactions, he has missed the best in life.
Ibsen attacks self-sufficiencythrough the character of Peer Gynt. The spirit of compromise avails nothing; it stagnates and prevents attainment. The two dramas "Brand" and "Peer Gynt" let us see the problem of Self-Realization but they do not offer a solution. The Voice of Emerson Matthew Arnold said of Ralph Waldo Emerson, "He is the friend and aider of those who would live LESSON DEPARTMENT in the spirit."
This he did first by encouraging self-reliance, and secondly by encouraging "Godreliance." Concord, Massachusetts claims Emerson as her first citizen, while Boston boasts of him as her native son (1803-1882.) The descendant of a long line of ministers, it seemed inevitable that he should go to Harvard and study for the ministry. Of his home life Emerson said, "Toil, Want, Truth, and Mutual Faith were the four angels of my mother's home." At the age of twenty-three he was ordained as a Unitarian minister. It was during a period of intense religious unrest that Emerson resigned from the ministry because he could not agree with all the doctrines of his church. In sadness and poor health he started on his first visit to Europe traveling in many countries and visiting Landor, Coleridge, Wordsworth, and Carlyle with whom he established a life-long friendship.
Upon his return Emerson lived much alone as his poem "Good-bye" expresses: "Good-bye, proud world!
Going home: Good-bye to Flattery's fawning face: To grandeur with his wise grimace; To upstart Wealth's averted eye; To supple office, low and high; To crowded halls, to court and street; To frozen hearts and hasting feet; I'm "O, when I am safe in my sylvan home, I tread on the pride of Greece and Rome; And when I am stretched beneath the pines, Where the evening star so holy shines, 243 I laugh at the lore and the pride of man, At the sophist schools and the learned clan; For what are they all, high conceit When man in the bush with God may meet?" Fortunately, his wife's estate brought him a little income, so that he could live simply and leisurely at Concord. The poems and essays of Emerson reflect the traits of the writer. One critic has said of him, '"He lived and wrote by a sort of divine instinct." In his work he was highly individual. In his reading and studying, in his thinking, in his walks and talks, he jotted down his thoughts just as they came to him. The thoughts were organized later into lectures and essays.
Emerson chose the essay as the literary form for the expression of his thoughts, because it was the form best fitted to them.
Most of Emerson's life was spent in meditation, writing, and lecturing.
America is proud to call Emerson her great thinker, scholar, teacher, and philosopher.
Using always the scholarly form, his appeal has been to those who lived in the realm of thought. In his wisdom the reader finds security because it is the wisdom of the ages.
Emerson is one of the great forces in all literature. "Self-Reliance" is Emerson's greatest essay. Its theme is "Know yourself and trust yourself." The self to be trusted is not the egoistic or selfish self, but the divine self. The essay is therefore a mental and spiritual challenge. The thoughts are expressed sincerely, earnestly, and effectively.
Some of the great truths expressed can never be forgotten: in their 244 "Trust thyself; every heart vibrates to that iron string." "To be great is to be misunderstood." "Nothing can bring you peace but the triumph of principles." "A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds." "Tet a man then, know his worth, and keep things under his feet." "What I must do is all that concerns me, not what people think." "There is a time in every man's education when he arrives at the conviction that envy is ignorance." The main divisions of the essay follow the lines of thought: I.
Trust yourself. IJ.
Hindrances to self-reliance. 1. The tendency to follow our own past. 2.
Ignorance of self. 3. Too much deference to others. 4.
Sincerity and independence have been the traits of all great men. The call to self-reliance. 1. The self is divine in origin and nature, worthy to be trusted. 2. The soul is original, selfpoised, and self-sufficient. 3. Be strong and follow truth in all the relations of life. The need for self-reliance everywhere. 1. In society and business. 2. In prayer and creed. 3. In the arts. 4, In our relations with society.
Selections from other essays by Emerson: Nature "The difference between landscape and landscape is small, but there is great difference in beholders." III. IV.
Manners "The gentleman is a man of truth, lord of his own actions, and expressing that lordship in his behavior, not in any manner dependent and servile either on persons, or Opinions, or possessions." Friendship "A friend is a person with whom I may be sincere. Before him 1 may think aloud.?A friend may be reckoned the masterpiece of nature." Compensation "Every excess causes a defect, every defect an excess.?Nature hates monopolies and exceptions. ?There is always some leveling circumstance that puts down the overbearing, the strong, the rich, the fortunate, substantially on the same ground with all the others." "The farmer imagines power and place are fine things. But the President has paid dear for his White House." "He who by force of will or of thought is great and overlooks thousands, has the responsibility of overlooking.". In reading Emerson we know we have been on the heights; he leads us with him "up the shining trail of the ideal and the eternal." We realize with a new intensity that:. "Man is his own star: and the soul that can Render an honest and a perfect man Commands all light, all influence, all fate; Nothing to him falls early or too late. Our acts our angels are, or good or ill, Our fatal shadows that walk by us still." "The aids to noble life lie within us."
LESSON DEPARTMENT Suggestions for Study. A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature?Macy. Chapters 46, 48. The Outline of Literature? Drinkwater. Essays?Emerson. Brand?Ibsen. Peer Gynt?Ibsen. B. Program: 1. Music: Selections from Grieg's "Peer Gynt" suite. MA ON 245 2. Discussion: a. The Spiritual Values of Literature. 3. Reviews: a. Brand, b. Peer Gynt. 4, Readings: a. Selections from Emerson's Essays. C. Method: The lesson is planned as the closing program of the year. The message of the lesson is the important thing,