[Vol21 | April 1934 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Believest Hinckley]

By Helen Hinckley EADING out loud when one R was trying to do something else, or think One's own thoughts, was an annoying habit of Fatner's In his prosperous days he had read the newspaper in a heavy boisterous voice. "This is funny— well—well—"' and then he would launch into an article which every member of the family had previously read. His dark head would nod vigorously in punctuation, and at times he would laugh heartily at something which seemed very dull to the children. Since Mother's death and _ the boy's marriages Father had lost his grip on life. His business had drifted away to younger men. He sometimes imagined that the boy's babies were his own and that he had gone back fifty years. Elizabeth, his only daughter, now well past thirty, seemed as she moved about the house, to be the "Lizzie" of his young life. In this world of dreams the newspaper had no place. He still read aloud, but every day literature was replaced by the Bible.
Hour after hour 'fhe droned on in his querulous voice. 'Ever think of this, Lizzie?" and he would read whole pages from the Psalms, or the New Testament or the Epistles. His gray head would nod over the pages and when the muscles of his wizened hand had relaxed she would take the book from him, and place it on the table near his chair. She often felt then as if she would like to hide it.
When one lost one's job through no fault, and was forced to putter about the house all day, the Bible did not seem like suitable reading. One has time, under such conditions, to worry about diminishing fuel, leaking roofs, and closed banks.
Father was Elizabeth's child, and the responsibility weighed heavily upon her shoulders. His Bible reading seemed to her to symbolize his slipping grip on realities, and the doleful passages which prophesied the end of the world came to be a refrain she could not banish from her mind. The constant flow almost maddened her, yet she discovered that, she was beginning to agree with the old man, in expecting the "last days." At such times sne would shake herself vigorously and go for a stroll in the silent streets. She would return, with mind quiet, to the fussy demands of Father, to the worry about bread, butter and fuel, and the incessant flow of the quavering old voice, mouthing the phrases of the Holy Book. PRIL came with none of its promise. The birds refused to sing in the chilly mornings.
Even on sunshiny days the garden was wet under foot and Father could not be allowed out.
Snow and drizzling rain necessitated a fire in the kitchen range and one in the base burner. To Elizabeth, who had been unconsciously looking forward to the change of season, the weather seemed an added leaden burden. She came in one evening after a walk in the rain. "Who needs an Easter bonnet, anyway?" sne called gaily as she shook the drops from ner crocheted tam. But Father did not hear her—he was reading. She "BELIEVE THOU THIS?" dropped her tone of gayety as she dropped her frayed sweater.
What was the use?
What was the use of anything? And now came the old voice wheezing through the house— "That you, Lizzie?" And then, "How's this? 'Jesus said unto her. I am the resurrection and the life: he that believeth on me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: "And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die.' And tnen He asked Mary, 'Believest thou this?' " "You believe it, don't you Father °" Elizabeth enquired half heartedly. "T do," Father answered, closing his eyes with a look of content.
Elizabeth went into the hall to hang her wraps. J*ather's voice was quiet. He was lost in thought, or dozing in the warmth of the stove, yet strangely the words continued in her ears, "And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die." It was Easter tomorrow. And of course the Bible was talking about the bringing forth of Lazarus, and yet wasn't there something else in that promise? Did Christ mean that her mind should die in this treadmill of anxiety, that her body should be brought to death by hunger and want, that her soul should perish. In the shame of the begging and the receiving of alms? "And whosoever liveth and_believeth on me—"' Hurriedly she seized her sweater 217 and cap and crossing the side lot confronted a surprised neighbor. "You know those bird nest cakes with the candy eggs I made for my brother's children? You admired them and said that you wished you had time to make some for Nada's birthday party Monday. * * * * T could make some for you tonight." "You could!" The neighbor was genuinely delighted. "Of course I'd expect to pay you for them." "Well, I kind o' hate to take money for a neighborly act—" Elizabeth faltered for a moment, "But you see—"' and her lips straightened. 'since I'm not at the office any more I figured I'd go into the pastry business." "That's fine! TI—,' but Elizabeth was already hurrying toward the store to lay in a meager supply of pastry necessities. In a few minutes she entered the kitchen, the brown packages tucked under her arm. The slam of the door seemed to awaken Father. In a moment he began reading. "Jesus said unto her: I am the resurrection and the life: he that believeth on me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: "And whosoever liveth and believeth on me shall never die."
Sort of gives you courage, doesn't it Lizzie?" Elizabeth, laying her supplies out on the kitchen table, pulled her sagging lips into a determined line. "'It surely does, Father!" My Pick-pocket (A Household Hint) By Virginia B. Jacobsen HERE'S my pencil?" wailed Nancy as she made a frantic search the last minute before leaving for school. "T can't find my history book," called Bob from the library. "Mother!" demanded father from the top of the stairs, "Have you seen my keys to the car?" "No!
Take mine, they are in my purse in my top drawer." "Mother, I can't find my shoe," wailed six year old Jean. "Wear your new shoes. It is too late to hunt for the old ones 99 now.
After the door had closed behind the last departing member of my adorable but thoughtless family, I sank down for a short respite before attacking the morning pick-up. I could not help smiling as I looked about my attractive but untidy living-room.
There was Jean's shoe surreptitiously peeking out from beneath the davenport. It almost seemed to grin at me as I spied it in its hiding place. And there were Tom's keys in plain sight on the' mantle with his reading glasses.
Here was Bob's history book tucked down in the side of the very chair in which I sat.
Delving deeper I retrieved my thimble and a spool of thread, and from still deeper down I brought to light Jean's long lost ring and a-- shiny dime.
Gathering the booty from my treasure hunt, I placed it on the stairs to await my next ascent. No use in making any more trips upstairs than necessary.
Then the telephone called me away for ten minutes. But while [ was gone, Tim—age two—discovered my cache and had ample time to scatter it from front door to back.
That settled the question of going up stairs. I gathered everything up again and made the rounds of the bedrooms, depositing each article in its proper place. 'As I cleaned each room a similar array of misplaced belongings grinned at me from chairs, tables and floor.
Four times that morning I chased upstairs putting things away. I decided that something must be done about it. Here, on this very busy morning I had spent no less than forty minutes of my precious time picking-up and putting-away.
That was too much time wasted for my well regulated home.
Decided to stage a quiet rebellion..
That afternoon, I[ took a pretty piece of creton and cut out a tieon apron with a huge pocket across the front of the entire apron.
That evening at dinner I announced that I had a surprise for them all.
Excitement ran high as I left the dining-room and returned wearing my unusual apron. "Mother, what is it?
What is it for?" demanded my surprised family. "This is my Pick-pocket," I announced. "Everything I find around the house out of its proper place will go in here. When I am through cleaning, each day, I will make the rounds of the house and put things where they belong— EXCEPT—" I paused for effect, MY PICK-POCKET and all eyes and ears were attention. "Articles which I feel have been left in carelessness and neglect will remain in the pocket until the owner has paid a fine. The fine will depend upon the negligence in the case and the size of the allowance of the offender.