Something to Think About 'By Heber J. Sears, M. D., Head of Department of Hygiene University of Utah Goiter and the Dullard Not so very long ago the dull school child was placed upon a high stool with a "dunce cap" on his head. It was assumed that he could learn if he would only apply himself. His dullness was supposed to be due to laziness. He was jeered at, humiliated in various ways, and even flogged for 'his stupidity. Now we know that if a child fails to keep up with his class there is usually some physical or mental defect. This defect may or may not be correctable. As a rule, the fault is more likely to be with his parents than with the child, but we now look for the ~ causes instead of punishing the_victim. Much scientific study has been done on this subject since the days of Dickens, and a flood of light has been thrown upon the dark corners of the problem. It is now incumbent upon us, as a civilized nation, to apply this knowledge. It is estimated that, in the United States, some forty million dollars is wasted annually on backward or mentally retarded children?in re-teaching them what they have already been taught but have failed to learn. The Mystery of the Glands Glands regulate personality. Glands determine the quality of our mentality. We have all grades of intelligence ranging from idiocy, on the one hand, to genius, on the other. The glands often determine which it shall be. We are curiously and wonderfully made. In our bodies we carry around a great number of glands. These glands preside over the chemistry of the body. If a gland is upset the chemistry of the body is upset, for most of the body processes are chemical processes. It would seem that in the human economy almost every process is dependent upon some other process?every gland upon the function of some other gland?and that health?physical and _ mental?depends upon the harmonious cooperative working of all the glands. There are two periods in life when body growth is exceedingly rapid?these are the prenatal period and the period of adolescence, These periods of rapid growth call for increased nourishment and for increased activity on the part of all the glands, 192 In the nine months preceding birth, the weight increase is nearly a billionfold?from a microscopic cell to seven or eight pounds. After birth the rate of growth decreases gradually until the age of puberty when a second period of rapid growth begins. The brain is the driving force in man and animals. Whether the brain drives well or poorly depends upon at least three glands ?these are the liver, the adrenals, and the thyroid. If the thyroid gland is absent or inactive the brain is dull and its owner stupid. If a child is born without'a thyroid gland or with a thyroid gland that fails to function, he is called a cretin. Such an unfortunate individual is dwarfed in body and mind. He presents a toad-like appearance. The skin is dry, the tissues under the skin seem very thick and boggy, the forehead is low, the base of the nose is broad, the mouth half-open, and the hair coarse. The whole picture is a revolting sight. Until within the last half century, such cases were considered hopeless. Then a great light dawned. Medical science discovered the cause and, as in many other cases, the cause suggested the remedy. That these otherwise doomed creatures can be rescued from hopeless idiocy is a triumph of experimental medicine unparalleled in its history. In the front part of the neck is a very important structure called the thyroid gland. It is a structure in which we are all deeply interested because it so frequently gives trouble. It forms almost a letter "H"?in the upper part of which rests the ""Adam's Apple." 'You cannot feel this gland unless it is enlarged. When it is enlarged we say its owner has goiter. If the thyroid gland is absent or inactive in a child the child may be dull, or feebleminded, or even idiotic. If the thyroid gland ceases to function in adult life, physical and mental degeneration rapidly sets in. The thyroid gland has been called "The Gland of Romance," because it sometimes acts like a barometer, varying with the tide of affection and other emotions. It is known to be definitely associated with the reproductive function. 'A woman with a goiter, if not treated, may give birth to a mentally defective child. The thyroid gland is also linked up with the liver, with the digestive processes, and, perhaps, with several other processes. It is associated with a number of other ductless glands known by the general name of Endocrine glands. These glands play important roles in the body economy. The business of the thyroid gland is to manufacture a substance we now call thyroxin. It would seem that the purpose of thyroxin is to regulate the amount of oxidation in the cells of the body. The purpose of oxygenating the cells is to keep the fires burning. So the thyroid gland regulates the supply SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT 193 of thyroxin and the thyroxin regulates the supply of oxygen to the tissues. The sunny side of this problem will be 'handled in this Magazine next month. The Seven Ages of Play (With apologies to Shakespeare). By Charles H. Keene, M. D. Director, Bureau of Health Education, Harrisburg, Penn. Play has seven ages; first, instinctive mover, Struggling and crawling in a tiny orbit; And then the imitator, with his toys And gleaming, sunny smile, toddling like puppy Happily about; and then, the savage, Throwing, striking, mauling, as a joyful tribute Paid to his race's story; then a hunter Bent on swift chase, and speeding like the fox, Cruel in habit, sudden and quick in seizing, Seeking the phantom quarry Even in the crowded street; and then, the nomad, Of fair, round visage, and glad, smiling mouth With eyes serene, and pet at tripping heel, Full of kind thoughts and happy instances: _And so he plays his race. The sixth age slips Into the fair and joyful agriculture; On gard'ning intent, and things that grow, His youthful soul content with play so wise For his small head?with his big, beaming eyes, Turning again toward race's past?he digs And struggles in the soil. Last scene of all, That ends this childish growth, the tribesman, In growing consciousness of his racial goal, Does stunts, plays games, forms teams, co-operates: ?Journal of the National Education Association. Photo by Stafford, Chicago Relief Societies of Logan Square, University and Roseland Branches,