Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Northern States Mission. Mrs. Rachel Grant Taylor, president of the Relief Society of the Northern States mission, recently entertained the members of the three Chicago branches at a delightful social at the mission home. These branches are Logan Square, Roseland, and University. There were in all seventy-seven present, including ten children. A delightful musical program was given, including piano numbers by Brother Sam Williams, the well-known Salt Lake musician, who is studying in Chicago, and vocal solos by Sisters Anderson, Matheson, Swartwood, and Solum, who were accompanied by Mr. Williams. Delicious refreshments were served by Sister Taylor who was assisted by her charming daughter, Lucy, and the lady missionaries. During the afternoon the accompanying picture was taken which shows Sister Taylor in the center of the group, surrounded by her Chicago Relief Society workers. When one hears the three Chicago branches spoken of, it sounds as though they might be immediately adjoining one another. However, such is not the case. Although these branches are all within the city limits, it requires an hour and fifteen minutes on the elevated to go from Logan Square, where the mission headquarters are located, to University branch, and about two hours to go to Roseland, almost the same time in travel as going from Salt Lake to Ogden and from Salt Lake to Provo. If one can imagine a Relief Society stake president in Salt Lake with a ward in Ogden to visit, and another in Provo, one would have a conception of the time it takes the mission president at Logan Square to visit the other two Chicago branches. The largest of these three organizations is Logan Square. The officers are: President, Margaret Johnston; first counselor, Gwennie Matheson; second counselor, Aurora Dixon; secretarytreasurer, Elizabeth Dedekind; Magazine representative, Anna Lingreen. The University branch is located near the University of Chicago, where the majority of the students and their families live. It meets the needs of the people from the west who are temporarily there, as well as the resident members of that district. The president is Florence Anderson; first counselor, Alyce Perry; second counselor, Jessie Cardwell; secretary-treasurer, Erzel Mickley; Magazine representative, Edna Wadley. In Roseland the president is Paulena De Vries; first counselor, Maggie Walker; second counselor, Sadie Sutton; secretary-treasurer, Janette Walker. These organizations hold meeting at eight o'clock in the evening, as so many are employed in the business world during the day, or else have no one with whom they can leave their children until evening. I In the Northern States mission there are in all thirteen Relief Society branches. They are all in splendid condition and enthusiastic over their work. Utah Stake Reorganized. Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, early in the year, resigned her position as president of the Relief Society of the Utah stake, and was honorably released, but with sincere regret, at the Utah stake conference held in January. Mrs. Allen's entire board was released with her. Mrs. Allen had served six years as president of the stake Relief Society and during that time she made an enviable record for real accomplishments. Previous to being appointed president, she served the stake three years as secretary and ten years as counselor. A woman of rare vision and real genius in public work, Mrs. Allen early in her administration made a survey of the work being done by her organization and also a survey of the needs in the community covered by the stake. She found that very effective work was being done in some of the departments, but the survey convinced her of two things: First, that more service and better service should be given along welfare lines in order to meet the real needs of the communities, and secondly, that it would be necessary to raise and distribute more money if certain types of constructive human welfare work were to be accomplished. After counseling with her board, and after consulting her priesthood authorities and the General Board, Mrs. Allen formulated plans and with her stake board, established a cooperative welfare department, which was called the Community Welfare Department of the Utah Stake Relief Society. This department was conducted under the supervision and direction of the local priesthood and the stake Relief Society, with Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, a trained social worker, acting as the executive secretary. The object of the department was constructive family work, and community betterment. The department has correlated the local work of the Relief Society, cooperated with the county and other local agencies, as well as with state agencies and institutions in the interest of humanity, and has become known throughout Utah and the west as an efficient and up-to-date family welfare agency. Utah stake is well known also for other phases of work, among which are its splendid union meetings and its excellent department and class work. The General Board takes this opportunity of expressing to Mrs, Allen and her faithful co-workers, deep appre-