Guide Lessons for June LESSON I Theology Lesson (First Week in June) THE PARABLES OF THE SAVior (Continued) A. The Draw Net "Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a net, that was cast into the sea, and gathered of every kind: Which, when is was full, they drew to shore, and set down, and gathered the good into vessels, but cast the bad away. "So shall it be at the end of the world: the angels shall come - forth, and sever the wicked from among the just, and shall cast them into the furnace of fire; there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth." Matt. 13:47-50. Evidently this parable was intended to teach two things: First, that in the Kingdom on the earth there would be found both righteous and unrighteous people; and, Second, as in the case of the tares there would come a time of segregation or classification according to real character worth. Incomplete interpretation of this parable and the one of the tares has undoubtedly led to the doctrine of the consignment of the soul to one of two places. It is scarcely conceivable that in the net there would be but two kinds of fish, the worthless and the valuable, for it is a well known fact that the Sea of Galilee contained a variety of fish varying in usefulness, and the natural classification of the haul would be illustrative of the doctrine of gradation in salvation as plainly revealed in the dispensation of the fulness of times. Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 76.. This parable is a good illustration of the difference between being in 'the Kingdom and being of the Kingdom. B. The Unmerciful Servant?Matthew 18:23-25. "Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain king, which would take account of his servants. And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him, which owed him ten thousand talents. But forasmuch as he had not to pay, his lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife, and children, and all that he had, and payment. To be made. The servant therefore fell down, and worshiped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. Then the lord of that servant was moved with compassion and loosed him and forgave him the debt. 202 - "But the same servant went out, and found one of his fellowservants, which owed him an hundred pence, and he laid hands on him, and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest. And his fellowservant fell down. At his feet, and besought him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all. And he would not; but went and cast him into prison, till he should pay the debt. "So when his fellowservants saw what was done, they were very sorry, and came and told unto their lord all that was done. Then his lord, after that he had called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt, because thou desirest me: Shouldest not thou also have had compassion on thy fellowservant, even as I had pity on thee? "And his lord was wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all that was due unto him. So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts for- ' give not every one his brother their trespasses." Jesus, having taught the doctrine of justice, with figurative emphasis, now turns to the parabolic teaching of the doctrine of mercy. In the parable of the unmerciful servant we see a portrayal of the truth that the perfection of justice depends upon mercy. The parable seems to be an answer to Peter's enquiry as to how many times one should forgive another. Among the heathens, the law "an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth," prevailed; among the Jews the limit of forgiveness was the fourth offense. Peter's inquiry extended beyond the three when he asked if even the seventh offense should be forgiven, and the announcement, not seven times but seventy times, was a startling one, and even that number was but figurative. This parable has hidden in it the doctrine recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants, Sec. 64:9, 10, 11. The Savior vividly illustrated the beauty of the leniency of love and the ugliness of the oppression of greed. He showed the relationship of bigsouledness and forgiveness. The debt of the unmerciful servant which was forgiven him by the merciful Lord was over three hundred million dollars, while the debt for which the greedy ca a cast his fellowservant into prison was less than twenty ollars The parable brings into play the usual inherent justice of public sentiment and the application of the law announced in the Lord's prayer "Forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors." The forgiven debtor forfeited the forgiveness of his lord through unwillingness to forgive his fellowservant. The parable plainly teaches that the moment we become unforgiving we become unworthy of forgiveness. ? { GUIDE LESSONS ? 203 "O hearken, my tongue shall the riddle unseal, And mind shall be partner with heart; While thee to thyself I bid conscience reveal, And show thee how evil thou art. Remember thy follies, thy sins, and thy crimes, How vast is that infinite debt; Yet mercy hath seven by seventy times Been swift to forgive and forget."' The parable makes clear the fact that in Heaven there is no place for the unforgiving. The Lord cannot tolerate the companionship of the unmerciful and be what he is?''A God of mercy." C.. The Laborers in the Vineyard This parable, recorded in Matthew 20:1-16, was called forth by Peter's question recorded in Matthew 19:27, and Peter's questions seems to have been provoked by the Savior's offer of salvation to the rich young man, Matthew 19:16-21. Peter's question had in it an element of dissatisfaction with the Lord's promise of treasures in heaven to the man who had been enjoying wealth and ease while the apostles had been giving _ their all and themselves to the service of the Lord. The answer, recorded in Matthew 19:28, must have been very gratifying to the apostles, as it provided for exaltation as well as the salvation promised in verse twenty-nine, but the statement recorded in verse thirty was full of mystery and possibly caused some apprehension in the minds of those who knew themselves to be first in service. The statement, however, was a recognition of the fact that waiting for employment is more arduous than waiting for pay. Could the apostles have appreciated the inestimable value of the privilege of "following him" i. e., working under his direction and inspiration, they would have recognized that the latecomer, though he received the same material compensation as the early-comer did, could not receive equal with the early employee because the greatest compensation for service in the Kingdom is the privilege of serving. The Lord taught them the lesson that the was the source of heavenly treasure (eternal life, and exaltation) for without him no service can reach these treasures. | After all, wherein is exaltation greater than salvation? The one is a state of preservation from the power of one's enemies; the other is all that and more, it is a state of being able to render superior service. This, the chief difference between salvation and exaltation, is a difference of opportunity to work. The higher the exaltation the greater the work. Work is progressive exaltation. 204. QUESTIONS AND: PROBLEMS 1. From what point of view may the parable of the draw net teach the doctrine of gradation of salvation? 2. Correlate the following quotation with the parable of the draw net: "On the silent shore to which we are all moving we shall find each one his peace." 3. Relate the parable of the unmerciful servant and state what, to your mind, is the chief lesson taught by it. 4. What was the heathen basis of settling differences and' what was the Jewish limit of forgiveness at the time of giving this parable? 5. Correlate the doctrine taught by the parable of the unmer- _ciful servant with Doctrine and Covenants 64:9-10 and with the Lord's prayer. 6. Discuss this statement: To ask for forgiveness when one is unwilling to forgive is to ask that the Savior's statement be made untrue. 7. What were the circumstances which brought forth the parable of the laborers in the vineyard? 8. What was the evident object of this parable? 9. From what point of view is the one longest in God's service always best paid? 10. Discuss the following as an expression of the highest desire:,: May life eternal be my share, Under my Redeemer's care. With those I love?eternal joy, Eternal work in God's employ. LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in June) LESSON III Literature (Third week in June) OLIVER WENDELL HoLmEs Oliver Wendell Holmes is one of the most interesting authors that America has had from the standpoint of personality. He was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in 1809, and died in 1894. He comes of one of the old aristocratic families of Boston, having his residence on Beacon Hill. One of his ancestors was Dorothy GUIDE LESSONS 205 Quincy. In this issue of the Magazine we include her portrait and Doctor Holmes' poem Dorothy Q., written to her. Grandmother's mother: her age, I guess, Thirteen summers, or something less; Girlish bust, but womanly air; Smooth, square forehead with uprolled hair; Lips that lover has never kissed; Taper fingers and slender wrist; Hanging sleeves of stiff brocade; So they painted the little maid. On her hand a parrot green Sits unmoving and broods serene. Hold up the canvas full in view,? Look! There's a rent the light shines through, Dark with a century's fringe of dust,? That was a Red-Coat's rapier-thrust! Such is the tale the lady old, Dorothy's daughter's daughter, told. 206 | Who the painter was none may tell,? One whose best was not over well; Hard and dry, it must be confessed, Flat as a rose that has long been pressed; Yet in her cheek the hues are bright, Dainty colors of red and white, And in her slender shape are seen Hint and promise of stately mien. Look not on her with eyes of scorn,? Dorothy Q. Was a lady born! Ay! Since the galloping Normans came, England's annals have known her name; And still to the three-hilled rebel town Dear is that ancient name's renown, For many a civic wreath they won, The youthful sire and the gray-haired son. O Damsel Dorothy! Dorothy Q.! Strange is the gift that I owe you; Such a gift as never a king Save to daughter or son might bring,? All my tenure of heart and hand, All my title to house and land; Mother and sister and child and wife And joy and sorrow and death and life! What if a hundred years ago Those close-shut lips had answered No, When forth the tremulous question came That cost the maiden her Norman name, And under the folds that look so still The bodice swelled with the bosom's thrill? Should I be I, or would it be One tenth another, to nine tenths me? Soft is the breath of a maiden's 'Yes: Not the light gossamer stirs with less; But never a cable that holds so fast Through all the battles of wave and blast, And never an echo of speech or song That lives in the babbling air so long! There were tones in the voice that whispered then You may hear to-day in a hundred men. jo GUIDE LESSONS?: 207 O lady and lover, how faint and far Your images hover,?and here we are, Solid and stirring in flesh and bone,? Edward's and Dorothy's?all their own,? A goodly record for Time to show Of a syllable spoken so long ago!? Shall I bless you, Dorothy, or forgive For the tender whisper that bade me live? It shall be a blessing, my little maid! I will heal the stab of the Red-Coat's blade, And freshen the gold of the tarnished frame, And gild with a rhyme your household name; So you shall smile on us brave and bright As first you greeted the morning's light, And live untroubled by woes and fears Through a second youth of a hundred years. Dr. Holmes was educated at Andover Theological Seminary and at Harvard University. He chose medicine as his profession, did some writing on medical subjects, and was, until he reached ? his seventy-third year, professor of Anatomy in the Medical College of Harvard University. Anatomy is usually thought of among medical students, as a rather dry subject, yet Doctor Holmes made it so interesting that he was greeted with applause at the close of each of his.. Lectures, a thing almost unknown in other colleges. He did practice medicine, but it was said that he cured more patients through contact with his life-giving, cheerful personality than through any medical treatment he prescribed. The world knows him chiefly as a poet and it is by his poetry that he will live, nevertheless, at Harvard University they knew him as a man of science. President Eliot said in. Substance, at a banquet given to him at a birthday celebration, "you who are gathered here know Doctor Holmes chiefly as a poet, but on the Harvard campus, we know him chiefly as a physician," and "I want to assure you that he handles the scalpel as skillfully as he does the pen." Doctor Holmes is conspicuous as an occasional poet, and could furnish a. Poem appropriate for practically any occasion. He wrote: "I'm a florist in verse, And what would people say, If I came to a banquet, Without my bouquet." He made the class of 1829, of Harvard University, famous, never failing to make a contribution each year when they gathered. We shall take up some of the best known poems to the class of '29 in the next lesson. There is a strain of humor running through much that Holmes has written, consequently, he was always welcome whereever he chanced to be; he was immensely popular in social circles. "Early in life he acquired the reputation of being the best talker ever heard in Boston, and this he maintained unbroken to the end." The last appearance of Holmes in public is so thoroughly worth-while that we include the story in this lesson. The National Teachers' Association was to meet in Boston and the committee felt sure, from the fact that Boston and its environs are so important, historically, that a very large number of teachers would assemble. In this conjecture they were not mistaken, for 20,000 came together, which chanced to be the largest number that had met prior to that time, at any association meeting. The committee wanted to feature some entertainment that would be especially attractive to the teachers, so they suggested a literary dinner. But said one of their number, "Trowbridge and Thomas Bailey Aldrich would hardly fit the situation and the others are all gone." They felt this to be true because Doctor Holmes had grown so feeble that he was no longer appearing in public. Said one, "If we could just manage to have Doctor Holmes, it would be the most unique entertainment that we could possibly offer"; so the committee made up its mind to see what could be done. The committee waited on Doctor Holmes, and he called his physician who told him that if the day was clear, and he'd promise not to shake hands with anyone, and not take part on the program, he might attend the banquet. The entertainment was announced and there was a scramble for tickets, for everybody knew that it would, in all probability, be Doctor Holmes' last appearance in public. When the day arrived the poet disobeyed orders. The day was murky, but he left his home. He was placed on the platform off from the company, but when he recognized in the group so many of his old friends he refused to be off by himself and insisted on shaking hands with them. When the banquet had almost concluded, he requested the privilege of taking part, drawing from his pocket a poem written for the occasion, entitled The Teacher. His introduction to his book of poems is especially good, so we are including it in the lesson: GUIDE LESSONS 209 ~ TO MY READERS Nay, blame me not; I might have spared Your patience many a trivial verse, Yet these my earlier welcome shared, So, let the better shield the worse. And some might say, "Those ruder songs Had freshness which the new have lost; To spring the opening leaf belongs, The chestnut-burs await the frost." When those I wrote, my locks were brown, When these I write?ah, well-a-day! The autumn thistle's silvery down Is not the purple bloom of May! Go, little book, whose pages hold Those garnered years in loving trust; How long before your blue and gold Shall fade and whiten in the dust? O sexton of the alcoved tomb, Where souls in leathern cerements lie, - Tell me each living poet's doom! How long before his book shall die? It matters little, soon or late, A day, a month, a year, an age,? I read oblivion in its date, And Finis on its title-page. Before we sighed, our griefs were told; Before we smiled, our joys were sung: And all our passions shaped of old In accents lost to mortal tongue. In vain a fresher mould we seek,? Can all the varied phrases tell That Babel's wandering children speak How thrushes sing or lilacs smell? Caged in the poet's lonely heart, Love wastes unheard its tenderest tone; The soul that sings must dwell apart, Its inward melodies unknown. Deal gently with us, ye who read! Our largest hope, is unfulfilled,? The promise still outruns the deed,? The tower, but not the spire, we build. Our whitest pearl we never find; ?- Our ripest fruit we never. Reach; The flowering moments of the mind Drop half their petals in our speech. These are my blossoms; if they wear One streak. Of morn or evening's glow, Accept them; but to me more fair The buds of song that never blow. Soon after Holmes finished his work at Andover, a matter in the public press so stirred his soul that he wrote Old Ironsides. The story goes, that "in the Charleston Navy Yard, at this time, was the old frigate Constitution, which the government proposed to break up as unfit for service, thoughtless of the desecration. "The poem, the first to make its author famous, was written in 1830, and first published in The Boston Advertiser. From these columns it was extensively copied by other newspapers throughout the country, and handbills containing the verses were circulated in Washington. The eloquent, patriotic outburst not only brought instant fame to the young poet, but so thoroughly aroused the heart of the people that the grand old vessel was saved from destruction." OLD IRONSIDES Ay, tear her tattered ensign down! Long has it waved on high, And many an eye has danced to see That banner in the sky; Beneath it rung the battle shout, And burst the cannon's roar;? The meteor of the ocean air Shall sweep the clouds no more! Her deck, once red with heroes' blood, Where knelt the vanquished foe, When winds were hurrying o'er the flood, And waves were white below, No more shall feel the victor's tread, Or know the conquered knee;? The harpies of the shore shall pluck The eagle of the sea! GUIDE LESSONS ?_ aii O better that her shattered hulk Should sink beneath the wave; Her thunders shook the mighty deep, And there should be her grave; Nail to the mast her holy flag, Set every threadbare sail, And give her to the god of storms, The lightning and the gale! I feel sure that it will be of interest to our readers to know that Doctor Holmes, as well as being one of the first and one of the most gifted contributors to the Atlantic Monthly, was the person who gave the magazine its name. Concerning this matter, William Dean Howells said at the celebration on the anniversary of his seventieth birthday: "The fact is known to you all, and I will not insist upon it, but it was Oliver Wendell Holmes who not only named, but who made the Atlantic. How did he do this? Oh, very simply! He merely invented a new kind of literature, something so beautiful and rare and fine that while you were trying to determine its character as monologue or colloquy, prose or poetry, philosophy or humor, it was gradually penetrating your conscience with a sense that the best of all these had been fused in one?a perfect form, an exquisite wisdom, an unsurpassable grace."
In our last lesson we gave you Lowell's poem, Under the Washington Elm, In this lesson we shall include Holmes' poem, Under the Washington Elm:
Eighty years have passed, and more, Since under the brave old tree Our fathers gathered in arms, and swore They would follow the sign their banners bore, And fight till the land was free.
Half of their work was done, Half is left to do,? Cambridge, and Concord, and Lexington! When the battle is fought and won, What shall be told of you?
Hark!?'tis the south-wind moans,? Who are the martyrs down? Ah, the marrow was true in your children's bones That sprinkled with blood the cursed stones Of the murder-haunted town! 
What if the storm-clouds blow? What if the green leaves fall? Better the crashing tempest's throe Than the army of worms that gnawed below; Trample them one and all!
Then, when the battle is won, And the land from traitors free, Our children shall tell of the strife begun When Liberty's second April sun Was bright on our brave old tree!
Holmes lives to be eighty-three, dying just about a year after England's laureate poet, Alfred Tennyson. He lived long enough to write the epitaph of all his brother singers, of the New England group, and practically wrote his own in the poem, The Last Leaf, which we include:
"I saw him once before, As he passed by the door, And again The pavement stones resound, As he totters o'er the ground With his cane.
"They say that in his prime, Ere the pruning-knife of Time Cut him down, Not a better man was found By the Crier on his round Through the town.
"But now he walks the streets, And he looks at all he meets Sad and wan, And he shakes his feeble head, That it seems as if he said, 'They are gone.'
"The mossy marbles rest On the lips that he has pressed In their bloom, And the names he loved to hear Have been carved for many a year On the tomb.
"My grandmamma has said? Poor old lady, she is dead Long ago? That he had a Roman nose, And his cheek was like a rose In the snow.
"But now his nose is thin, And it rests upon his chin Like a staff, And a crook is in his back, And a melancholy crack In his laugh.
"I know it is a sin For me to sit and grin At him here; But the old three-cornered hat, And the breeches, and all that, Are so queer!
"And if I should live to be The last leaf upon the tree In the spring, Let them smile, as I do now, At the old forsaken bough Where I cling."
Questions and Problems
1. Select the two lines from Holmes' poem To My Readers that describe the poet in his old age.
2. How does Holmes describe a librarian in this poem?
3. What idea is the poet trying to convey in the last stanza?
4. What emotion do you think prompted and inspired the writing of Old Ironsides?
5. Compare Lowell's lines Under the Washington Elm and Holmes' on the same subject.
6. Which of the two poets do you think has been most successful in his tribute? Tell Why?
7. Read with care the last three stanzas of the poem The Last Leaf and tell what you think of it as descriptive poetry.
8. Select a comparison in the fifth stanza that you think is especially happy.
9. Turn to the picture of Dorothy Q in the Magazine and see how portrait and poem compare. 
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in June)
The process of gathering the facts of a family's or an individual's social problems should be accompanied by another conscious process. In learning the facts of a difficult situation, the person, who attempts to be helpful in bringing about a solution of the problem, very early endeavors to interpret the nature and causes of the situation. The social adviser works much in the same manner that a doctor does when he studies his patient, observing the symptoms?the temperature, the pulse, the respiration, the infected areas, etc., meanwhile interpreting the symptoms and arriving at a diagnosis.
The process of interpretation in working with social problems comes into operation soon after observation begins. But even though symptoms or evidences of difficulties may be quite obvious, it may take days or even weeks before these various social symptoms can be related to one another and expressed in terms of a diagnosis. In the meantime the several elements that make for normal standards and normal living should be studied and analyzed and treated. Unsatisfactory health, employment, income, shelter, housekeeping, school attendance, etc., should all be observed and treated during the process of study. Later, these elements should be related to one another so that an understanding of the whole difficulty is reached.
To be able to select the important, the permanent, and significant factors from the unimportant, the transitory, and the irrelevant factors in a situation is the secret of successful social interpretation. No definite set of instructions can be given as to what should be done when ill-health, delinquency, or discouragement assail an individual. The study and interpretation must be personal, individual and varying. Which elements should receive attention and emphasis is, of course, controlled by the particular situation.
Perhaps a simple illustration will give these generalizations more meaning. An elderly couple lived in convenient pleasant rooms in a comfortable home. A small pension covered the expense of their simple, daily needs, but the loss of a pocket-book created a temporary distress. They had no friends or relatives to whom they could appeal at this time. In fact, they seemed very much alone. They did not go out much, for they had no place in particular to go. They had never had children. The woman had no relatives in this country and the man's sisters and brothers had
all died over twenty years before, and he had lost all trace of his nieces and nephews. They had met better fortune and had married well?one niece to a man who worked in a bank.
The resourceful, social-minded friend succeeded in doing much for this lonely couple. She heard the story of their present misfortune and also listened to many reminiscences which they enjoyed telling to a sympathetic friend. During her calls on them she was friendly and interested and cared for their immediate needs, but meanwhile she consciously and deliberately studied their lives attempting to select and emphasize in her treatment the important elements of the situation.
Although they talked of many early experiences, their school and work, the friend realized that school marks and training and work records had no great significance, for their careers of training and working were over. She was, however, alert for names of early friends or relatives, who, though now separated for a long period, might still be interested in renewing the broken ties. She learned the particulars of the pension. She, of course, was interested in their health, but nothing indicated the need of medical advice at this time. She brought them books to read, and succeeded in getting them to attend a party in the neighborhood. But while she was supplementing the income, supervising their health, and supplying diversion and recreation, she came more and more to understand that the elderly, lonely couple were lonely because they were completely separated from their past and because the natural bonds of friendship and family had been entirely broken.
A niece was located. A series of letters starting with the business school where the uncle had last heard of the niece, and including her first employer, and the bank in which her husband was formerly employed, finally brought to light her present whereabouts. The banker and his wife, now both middle-aged themselves, were as pleased as the old couple when the introductions were made. Other nieces and nephews and their children were brought into the picture and the bonds of the past were happily rewelded. The loneliness of the couple's declining years was much relieved to the great satisfaction of the alert, understanding friend, who had conscientiously, painstakingly, and deliberately searched for the information that resulted in such a pleasant end.
Reference: Normal Life?The Individual Normal Life, pages
1. Why is it impossible to determine instantly or quickly the nature of a social difficulty?
2. Why were school records unimportant in the illustration?
3. Give an example where school records would be of great importance. 
4. Why is it desirable to connect people with relatives from whom they have become separated or estranged?
5. If the niece had been estranged instead of separated, might the friend still have succeeded in bringing about a reunion? How might she have proceeded?
Recreation
"If thou art merry, praise the Lord with singing, with music, with dancing and with a prayer of praise and thanksgiving." Doc. And Cov. Sec. 136:28.
A. Discuss careful preparation for recreation and amusement during the summer holidays. B. Avoid extremes and excesses in patronage of resorts, at the same time enjoy in moderation and seek the out-of-doors.
THE BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Has had one ideal? "To train Citizens and Teachers for the most complete Service and the highest type of Leadership."
Three complete Demonstration Schools in which problems may be worked out will be organized this summer.
Faculty Members and Lecturers: Dr. David Snedden, Columbia. Dr. Adam S. Bennion, Supt. Church Schools, Dr. Walter R. Smith, Kansas. Dr. Merritt Y. Hughes, California. Dr. H. B. Wilson, Supt. of Schools, Berkeley, Cal. Dr. Horace Secrist, Northwestern. Dr. Raymond R. Frandsen, California. Dr. Henry C. Cowles, Chicago. Dr. T. W. Galloway, New York. Prof. W. A. McKeever, Lawrence, Kansas. Mrs. Dorothy Nyswander, California. Many Major Profs. of B. Y. U. And Others.
Write for Particulars.
Summer's Cool at Y Summer School.
A NATIONAL Summer School
"America's greatest summer faculty," exactly describes the opportunity the Utah Agricultural College is presenting to you from June 9 to July 18. Twenty-three distinguished scholars, each the outstanding authority in his field, will conduct credit courses?popular and advanced?or give series of lectures. Special courses for certification of teachers in service or training.
The following lines will be amply represented: Education and Psychology, Primary and Elementary Teaching,
SPECIAL TEACHING FACULTY Prof. Allee, Zoology, University of Chicago. Dr. Fae Rommel Leadership, Yale, Harvard. Prof. Blackwelder, Geology, Stanford. Prof. Tisai, Rural Sociology, Cornell. Prof. Yoakam, English, University of Pittsburgh. Prof. Cowles, Botany, University of Chicago. Prof. Franzen, Education, University of California. Prof. Knappen, Geology, University of Kansas. Prof. Merk, History, Harvard. Dr. McLain, Health Education. Prof. McCollum, Human Nutrition, Johns Hopkins. Prof. Reed, Agricultural Engineering, Ohio State U. Miss Ella Shearer, Primary and Elementary Teaching. Prof. Bainer, Agricultural Engineering. Prof. Miner, History, Harvard. Dr. Wood, Physical and Health Education, Columbia.
SPECIAL LECTURERS. Dr. Adams, University of California. Dr. Wm. G. Anderson, Liberty Hyde Bailey, Dr. Edward Steiner, Dr. A. E. Winship.
History, Geology and Physical Geography, Botany, Physical and Health Education, Recreational Leadership, Economics, Zoology, Rural Life, English and Literature.
Field Trips and excursions to places of scenic and educational interest?both during and after the summer session.
Living conditions in Logan pleasant and inexpensive. Board and room $20 month and up.
Fee $25 for 6 or 12 weeks. Write for catalog.
Utah Agricultural College Logan Utah
Compare the Pages of The Deseret News with those of any other paper. Notice that while the paper is clean and fit for any child to read it is also interesting and informative in the highest sense?And you get "TODAY'S NEWS TODAY"
Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Base metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver.
Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered
Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness."