An Aria for Easter Vesta P. Crawford "I know that my redeemer liveth...." (Job. 19:25) HE greatest words in all the world, the most magnificent music this has been said for almost two hundred years by the millions who have heard the faultless aria from Handel's Messiah. Particularly, in a time of change and uncertainty, it is not surprising that so many Christian people are finding new beauty and new strength in this Easter message. The words carry the simple, eternal beauty of scripture, "I know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth...." In these phrases there is no faltering, no question. Here is truth for the ages, for all who have doubted, for all who have believed. The music is a treasure that glows with brighter radiance through the years. Who was the matchless musician, the man Handel, who wrote this lofty and sacred music, who touched the utmost heights of composition? In the year 1685, a boy was born in Halle, Germany. His father said at once, "This child must be a lawyer. The shape of his head shows that he will have a great mind." His was a great mind, but not destined for the practice of law. Per. Haps, if he had become a lawyer, his name might long ago have been forgotten. Now, so long as music is repeated in the world, the name of George Frederick Handel will be imperishable. The young musician learned to play the harpsichord when he was only four years old and he was Teally no more than a child when he mastered the keys of the magnificent church organ in the Halle cathedral. This was the beginning of Handel's devotion to organ music. "The tones of the organ," he said, "bring harmonies from the immortals, and surely the angels are near when the great organ sings its theme of praise." The violin was the next instru. Ment mastered by Handel. He turned, then, to composition and wrote several operas in the style used by the Italians of his day. After his first opera was produced in London, in 1711, Handel was so toyally welcomed that he felt himself being adopted by the music-loving people of "green and rainy" England. It was not long before the German-born Handel became court musician to the King of England. George the First had a beautiful boat equipped with throne chairs. The boat sailed up and down the river Thames carrying the King of England and Handel, the King of Music. "Water Music" was the name given to the compositions that Handel played for the King as their boat plied the famous river. ANDEL, however, was seeking a medium greater than solitary compositions, greater, even, than operas. There was in his nature a deep spiritual yearning that finalPage 229 230 A Perry Picture GEORGE FREDERICK HANDEL ly found expression in writing oratorios. An oratorio resembles an opera in its telling of a dramatic story to the accompaniment of music. The oratorio, however, is usually based upon a sacred theme and the message of inspiration is delivered without a scenic background, without acting, and without costumes. The chorus, the orchestra, and the solo singers perform in magnificent unity. Sometimes, in a vast audience, you may see some of the listeners close their eyes in order that the message may come to them entirely through the medium of music. Handel's oratorio, using a Biblical text, possessed a lofty grandeur new to the world of music. His Israel in Egypt, Saul, and others, won the plaudits of the English nation. But it was the Messiah that held the people speechless with its strength and beauty. Here, the story of the life of Jesus is told in the matchless poet ty of the Bible, and the music carnies the words sublimely as clouds are carried across the blue heavens. It is said that when the oratorio was completed, George Frederick Handel stood in his room, a sheaf of papers in his hands. Tears streamed down his face. The door slowly opened and a servant entered. Handel turned and cried out, "I thought I did see all heaven before me and the great God himself." The gifted composer was then fifty-six years old and this was the climax of his career, the high point of achievement. Although he could not then foresee the future, he realized, to some extent at least, that he had written immortal music. The narrative of the Messiah begins with the ancient prophecy, "Comfort ye, comfort ye my people. Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem... The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness." (Isaiah 40:1-3). These words are sung by tenor. The chorus takes up the refrain, "And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed. The first part of the oratorio tells the story of the birth of Jesus, using the words of St. Luke to describe the shepherds "abiding in the field." With a joyous refrain, the chorus repeats the glowing words, "Unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given... And the government shall be upon his shoulder...." But the joyous phrases of the holy birth fade away as the story of Christ's life upon earth is unfolded. With shadowed intonations, the alto soloist sings the heart-breaking aria, "He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief...." And the AN ARIA FOR EASTER tenor takes up the dark measures, "Behold and see if there be _ SOTrow like unto his sorrow. THEN, from the shadows that precede the dawn, there comes the message of the resurrection, the thythm of new life, the measure of springtime, the eternal resurgence of the spirit. In words more clear than the tones of a bell, more lucid than falling water, the soprano sings, "I. Know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth......" This is the beloved Easter aria, words of hope and comfort, words that have sustained the followers of Christ for centuries. These are the Biblical words that were treasured long before Handel set them to mu- 231 sic. Yet, with Handel's spacious talent, these words have acquired an added luster, a brighter illumination. The exquisite words are sung against a background of violin music more elusive and beautiful than the gray dawn shadows that dissolve into the opal morning. One feels the ineffable unity of this earth, its past, its present, and the ages tocome. One feels that this earth is but a part of the vastness of creation. The treasured words of the Easter aria fall in silver cadence, each note a jewel. "But now is Christ risen from the dead, the first fruits of them that slept." It is a majestic thing to remember that when Handel was an old man and the tide of his health was ebbing low, he played the organ at one of the numerous renditions of HANDEL AND GEORGE I OF ENGLAND From a Painting by Hamman 232 the Messiah in England. He had been blind for many years, but he could not give up his music. Especially he could not live without touching the organ keys to make them speak the message of faith and hope. On this occasion, the skilled hands of the master musician stopped in the middle of a phrase. He trembled and almost fell from the seat. Ina few moments he recovered his pow ers and finished playing the accompaniment with his accustomed grandeur. But that was the last time his fingers touched an organ. On Saturday, April 14, 1759, early in the morning, the man who composed the Messiah was himself wrapped in sleep. He lies with EngJand's honored ones in the vast crypts of Westminster Abbey. His spirit lives forever in his unrivalled music.