Patient in Spirit" PATIENCE is a virtue which is enjoined many times in Holy Writ upon those who would be, in reality, the children of God. It is classed with such other qualities as faith, virtue, knowledge, temperance, brotherly kindness, godliness, charity, humility, and diligence. Patience, as an attribute of character, is extolled in the Epistle of James: Be patient therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long patience for it, until he receive the early and latter rain. Be ye also patient; stablish your hearts: for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh.... Take, my brethren, the prophets, who have spoken in the name of the Lord, for an example of suffering affliction, and of patience. Behold, we count them happy which endure. Ye have heard of the patience of Job, and have seen the end of the Lord; that the Lord is very pitiful, and of tender mercy (James 5:7, 8, 10, 11). The "patience of Job" has come to be a common saying among men, and anyone can learn a lesson in patience from studying the life of this "perfect and upright" man. It is usually the case that one who _ habitually exercises patience has acquired this virtue from years of constant striving for its possession. Few individuals seem to be so fortunate as to be endowed with patience from Page 250 birth. It is a priceless acquisition for the wife and mother. Children rarely realize the major role which patience plays in their home life as the mother guides the daily affairs of the home. But when a daughter assumes the responsibilities of wifehood, she soon awakens to the necessity of being patient in order that her new home may be permeated with a spirit of love and understanding. With the addition of the duties and cares of motherhood, a still greater need for patience is felt. If it is difficult to be patient in one's own affairs, it is still more difficult to be patient in directing the conduct of others. Too many mothers impulsively slap or berate a child without stopping to use a more effective means of correction for the lasting benefit of the child. It also requires patience to cheerfully perform, hour after hour, day after day, month after month, the same household tasks over and over again. A spirit of patience is needed in order that joy may come from such inevitable tasks and not discontent or grumblings at the monotony and drudgery of a woman's housework. Only one who has learned by patience to curb hasty actions and govern an unruly tongue, allowing matters to proceed in a natural manner, realizes the constant surveillance he EDITORIAL must impose on himself. The tendency on the part of most people to seek to force an issue without letting the individual, properly guided, work out his own problems and thus gain invaluable experience for himself, is directly traceable to a lack of patience. Blessed is the home where patience abides as a cultivated and 251 nurtured member of the family. Blessed is any group which is presided over by one who is "patient in spirit." From an intimate association with patience one grows ever stronger in living according to the admonition of the Lord: "In your patience possess ye your souls" (Luke 21:19). MCS. Se