Congratulations to President Smith ON HIS BIRTHDAY, APRIL 4th HE Relief Society General Presidency, on behalf of its world-wide membership, wishes to congratulate President George Albert Smith on the seventy-sixth anniversary of his birth. May this important milestone in his long career of outstanding service be a day of joy to him and a source of great satisfaction. We particularly remember that this is President Smith's first birthday as the President of the Church, and we wish him many more joyful anniversaries. May his health and strength be preserved, and may the prayers of the Relief Society sisters in his behalf, and their daily conduct be such as to help sustain him in his many responsibilities. May our love and appreciation go with him in his travels and abide with him in his home. May we teach our children the principles of high resolve, courage and devotion that President Smith has exemplified as a leader of his people. NOTES TO THE FIELD Relief Society No Longer to Share in the Use of the Evenings of the Stake Quarterly Conference Sundays The following letter from the First Presidency is published for the information of stake and ward Relief Society presidents: February 21, 1946 "TO: PRESIDENCIES OF STAKES GENERAL SUPERINTENDENTS AND GENERAL PRESIDENTS OF AUXILIARY ORGANIZATIONS Dear Brethren and Sisters: In a letter dated April 25, 1942, addressed to presidencies of stakes, bishops, presidents of missions, and presidents of branches, it was recommended that 'during the emergency the several stake auxiliary organizations will share in the use of the evenings of the stake quarterly conference Sundays for their stake auxiliary conferences and other programs under the assignment, direction, and discretion of the stake presidency.' At the regular meeting of the First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve held January 31, 1946, it was decided, after due consideration of the matters of Sunday evening meetings held in connection with stake quarterly conferences, to advise that these meetings be given to the Young Men's and Young Women's Mutual Improvement Associations instead of being alternated among the various auxiliaries. Therefore, commencing as of this date, presidencies of stakes, superintendents and presidents of auxiliary associations will please arrange their programs in accordance with this recommendation. Regarding the holding of special auxiliary meetings in wards, we repeat the instructions heretofore given as follows: 'In the wards the Relief Society, the Sunday School, the Mutual Improvement Associations, the Primary Association, and the Genealogical Society will hold all their special meetings and annual conferences on the evenings of Page 252 Fast Sundays. The assignment of these evenings to the various auxiliaries will be made by the bishopric of the ward after consultation with the auxiliary organizations.' Sincerely your brethren, (Signed) Geo. Albert Smith J. Reuben Clark, Jr. David O. McKay The First Presidency"