[Vol7 | July 1920 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: On the Watchtower James H. Anderson]

ON THE WATCHTOWER 413 England-Cairo, Cairo-Cape, Cairo-India, and Cairo-India-Australia. The League of Nations budget for the quarter ending Julyshows an expense of $1,250,000. Strikes of union laborers in Utah and throughout the United States in May caused losses reaching into the millions of dollars. Kanab, Utah, lays claim to having been the first town in the United States to be governed exclusively by women, in 1912, and be successful. Food prices in the United States increased slightly in May, while clothing and other manufactured goods fell in price. Chile has a Catholic and non-Catholic contest on, and may soon emerge into full religious liberty for all religious societies. Timothy Healy, the big union labor man in America, denounced "the public," in May, to a Congressional committee, as an enemy of union labor. Senator Smoot, of Utah, in the United States Senate on May 24, exposed part of a scheme from Washington to defeat him for re-election. Palestine was formally turned over to Great Britain on April 25, and the Zionists anticipate a fulfilment of the promise to make it a Jewish homeland. Francisco Villa has a price of 100,000 pesos put on his head by the new Mexican government, but the wily seven eighths Indian does not seem to fear the Spanish overlords. A train wreck which occurred on the Salt Lake Route, near Milford, Utah, on May 22, in which the engineer and fireman were killed, is attributed to strikers. Religious liberty is now the prevailing order in Palestine, for the first time in many centuries. Mexican developments, too, are in the same direction. 
 Zion Canyon, Utah, was visited in May by a party of young ladies from Salt Lake City. The canyon bids fair to become a famous spot for sightseers. King Charles, of Rumania, has deserted his wife because she was not of royal birth. Truly, such a man lacks the royal honor to be a real king. Europe is as much in the throes of war in May, 1920, as in May, 1916, the present warring peoples being Poles, Czechs. Albanians, Bolshevists and Greeks, on four distinct battle fronts. Government extravagance, national and state, it was announced in May by financial experts generally, to be the chief cause of the high cost of living in the United States. Congress passed a joint resolution on May 24, declaring the war with Germany and Austria to be at an end, and President Wilson vetoed it, thus keeping this country technically at war. Women's display of nudity at fashionable gatherings in the world is growing bolder this season than ever before, and fabric the consequent immorality threatens the world's social Prohibition in the United States is sought by a very large number of people to be overthrown. Senator Smoot, of Utah, was the first United States senator to announce his opposition to the overthrow scheme. The anti-tobacco movement in the United States is being aided materially by the "tobacco hog," who insists on smoking in elevators and halls in public buildings where women and children congregate. Herbert L. Samuel, former Home Secretary of Great Britain, was appointed, in May, as high commissioner for Palestine. For the first time in more than twenty centuries, Palestine is under the actual control of a Jew! Mexico had a complete revolution in the month from April 25 to May 25. and President Carranza was assassinated while in flight. The new government is likely to face a series of insurrections. ON THE WATCHTOWER 415 Greece has had her boundaries extended, by action of the entente allies, to four sea fronts   the Adriatic, Aegean, Mediterranean, and Black Sea. This almost doubles the area of that kingdom. Mildred Morris, Washington's woman correspondent of the International News Service, sent out a dispatch on May 4. saying that women are not jealous, and that two women can live happily in the same house with one husband. Which two women? Sir Auckland Geddes, new British ambassador to the United States, declared in a public address in Washington on May 2, that "peace can come to the earth only by a revival of the true Christian religion." Amen. George de Bourbon and Nina Murat, the former of the house of Bourbon and the latter of the house of Bonaparte, were married in France in May. It was the house of Bonaparte which dethroned the house of Bourbon in France, in the 17th century. Germany complains of the frightful mistreatment of German women by French colored troops during the latter's occupation of the Ruhr region in March and April, but this time there is no peace conference demanding punishment of the guilty soldiers. President Wilson asked Congress, in May, to accept an American mandate over Armenia, and William J. Bryan declared that such a thing is impossible. It is not likely that Congress will accede to the president's request. Democrats, as well as Republicans, being opposed thereto. The king of Greece, who married a wife not of royal blood at a time when he was not in direct succession to the throne, is being urged to put her away and marry a princess. This show how little moral honesty there is, and has been, in kings' houses. Sugar shortage and high prices for the commodity in the United States are charged by economists, in reports made in May, to be due to President Wilson's refusal, in September, 1919, to permit the government to buy the Cuban sugar crop at 52 cents per pound. MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN Suffrage for Chinese Women. Three groups of Chinese women are actually demanding that the new constitution, now being drafted in China, should provide for the right of woman suffrage. Moreover, they couple the demand with a request for representation in parliament. English Suffrage. The Countess of Warwick, who entertained the International Council of Women in London in 1899, when Dr. E. Mrs. B Margaret Wells, Mrs. A. A. W. Miss Caine, McCune, Kate Mrs. Susa Mrs. Thomas, Young Lucy Gates,' B. Young, and other Utah women, were among those present, in her famous castle   Lady Warwick, who married the Earl of Warwick in 1881, now asks election to the House of Commons and most astonishingly, is a candidate from the Labor party. Inheritance Laws of Utah Conflict With Louisiana Laws. In Louisiana the wife or husband who survives received one-half of the property of the estate unless declared otherwise. While Utah laws provide that the surviving wife or husband receives but one-third, the children or other heirs are entitled to two-thirds. The estate of Leon Fellman, late of Louisiana, is in difficulty over the collection of the inheritance tax on Union Pacific stock valued at $137,700. The lawyers of Utah and Louisiana are trying to thrash out this involved case and the results will determine cases in half a dozen other states, who have laws similar to those of Louisiana.