[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | October | Issue: 7b | Title: IN RURAL ENGLAND. | Author: Unknown]

	IN RURAL ENGLAND.

	IV
	“My dear uncle,” replied the thoughtful
niece, in answer to his question, as they sat to-
gether at breakfast that first morning after his
return, “I am indeed willing to do all I can
for your comfort and happiness, but I cannot
play a false part, and therefore I must speak
out plainly, to you after your generous offer
of a home for me, I have been quite contented
here with one exception.  Remember uncle I
have been carefully taught by a wise mother,
and it may seem to you prudish, but I cannot
countenance any freedom on the part of men,
toward young women, or girls, especially; and
I have always been told men were the pro- 
tectors of women.” “And who says they are
not, by Jove I’d like to see the man that dare

[Column 2]
venture into my domain without first consult-
ing me, getting permission in fact, he’d have a
sorry time of it, might get his head broken.
But Jane what do you mean?” observing that
his niece turned very pale, and trembled as she
poured out his coffee.
	“Uncle Edward I think you should know
everything that concerns your only child, and
I have made bold to speak to you, because,
well because it is right, and it must be for the
best, for her and for you.”
	Sir Edward held his cup in his hand and 
paused, “for her and for me, who Jane, whom
do you mean?  have the servants been having
a high time below stairs in my absence?  I
trouble little about them Mrs. Hess (the house-
keeper) manages well—I don’t care even if she
were to leave, so long as I have you Jane.”
	“But it is quite another person in whom I am
so deeply interested, your own daughter, my
cousin Anna.” “Well isn’t she getting on all
right, the Dr. has been attentive you told me,
she’s improving, I’ll go up and see her directly
surely no man, has dared to approach my
house with a view of making love to her, she’s 
a child, a mere child, you are her chaperone
now, that is you must be, I shall expect it out of
you.”
	“Let me see Jane, she will be eighteen on 
her next birthday, just after Christmas, O,
how the years fly, I’ve been abroad since then
more, than once, yes in Italy, and in Greece,
and everywhere her presence my own darling
wife has haunted me, but now that you are
with me I shall stay at home, and look better
after my own affairs, they are in a ruinous con-
dition I fear.”
	Miss Conway saw that he was drifting away
 from the subject and scarcely knew what she
ought to say, didn’t want to make too serious 
a matter of it, and so waited to see what turn
his conversation might take, for she felt deeply
that now her cousin was better something must
be done.
	Finally when Sir Edward had finished his
morning repast—he looked across to his niece
and said, “Jane you have not answered my
question, do you mean to stay with me? be-
cause if not I shall pack up and be off, its far
too dull in this gloomy old place in the winter
time,” “In that case,” Miss Conway replied,
“you would take Anna with you, it might be
the best for her.” ‘‘But how about yourself
Jane?  Not very pleasant to stay here alone
even for a few months, besides what opening
have you?” 
	“I could go as companion to some gentle-
woman,” “or governess,” added her uncle. “No!
never!  I am not even capable of taking care
of one young girl.” “And why,” retorted the
uncle quickly. “Have you and Anna dis-
agreed so soon?”
	“Allow me to explain uncle Edward, we
have been the best of friends Anna and I, but
she needs advise from you, in fact your care,
yes, she needs your presence here at home, or
if she goes abroad, she needs you with her.”
Miss Conway paused, she had spoken plainly
to this austere man, whom even his own child
dare not approach with any save common-
place matters.  In fact father and daughter
were wide apart, each occupied a different
world as it were of thought and feeling; and
this young woman, this stranger relative had
come and grasped the situation intuitively as
it were, and touched the heart even, (if heart
he had) of her haughty uncle.  She trembled
violently as she stood before him awaiting his
answer, she knew not if he would deign to
reply at all, but in her fearlessness she cared
not, for to herself she had said of late,—“Anna
must be saved at all hazards.”
	After this explanation the unsuspecting
father began to comprehend there was some
mystery and he flew into such a violent passion
and swore, and threatened, and created such a

[Column 3]
furore that the Dr. had to be sent for, though
the imperturbable Jane never lost control of
herself for a single moment.
	During the entire scene Miss Conway kept
the servants in awe by her tranquil manner,
and the old Dr. when quiet was at last re-
stored, declared she was a veritable heroine.
However he warned her against rousing the
violent temper of the Baronet again as it
might prove fatal, and in reply received the
astounding announcement from this daring
young woman, that whatever the consequences
he must be warned in time. “Aha,” said the
Doctor who began to suspect something con-
nected with his daughter.
	Miss Conway was puzzled, she scarcely knew
whether to make him a confident or not—and
so replied quietly, “it is a family affair,” add-
ing apologetically, “and I have no right to
make it public.” “But if it concerns my
patient, and he must be apprised of it then I
am the one to whom you should speak, or per-
haps I can solve the difficulty without his as-
sistance and inform him afterwards,” said the
Dr. evidently intent on making the best of the
situation.
	“Dr. Bland you are older and wiser than I
am,” the young woman answered, “it is my
first experience with a difficult problem of the
sort and perhaps I was too pronounced, but
you surgeons, when you have to probe a wound
go to the root of the matter; cut deep so to
speak, Uncle Edward’s pride is strong—but I
want him to remedy the great wrong he is
doing in leaving his child to herself so much.”
“You are right so far Miss Conway,” said the
Dr. but he is not likely to take this advice
from any woman; it must come from one he
would recognize as an adviser, and it cannot
be done just yet—and you Miss Conway are
quite capable of dealing with this “difficult
problem’ as you term it, for the present;
though I have no idea just what it is, I should
infer from your ‘beating about the bush,’ that
Miss Hilliard is in danger, has fallen in love!
poor child don’t know what love is, though I
am well aware she is intensely emotional.”
	“That my cousin knows nothing of love I
grant you, but she imagines a great deal,” was
the reply rather curtly given.
	“So long as it is only imaginary, and there
is no real object, no man in the case, I cannot
see the actual harm unless for the future, and
we can look out for that,” continued the Dr.
intending gradually to draw Miss Conway out
to confide in him.
	And so he did, almost inadvertently he
learned the facts, without incidents, that some
one had without permission of the Baronet
sought the company of the young Lady of the
Castle,and that unsophisticated as she was and
in a certain sense unprotected, he had pre-
sumed beyond the bounds of propriety to say
the least.
	Miss Conway did not need to explain to the
Dr. that her cousin was totally uneducated in
such matters, he was well aware of the fact,
but like her father looked upon her as a mere
child.
	“Your coming to this house Miss Conway
was certainly Providental, and you must stay
at whatever cost until things shape themselves
differently; your nncle needs you now to nurse
him, no one can do it so well, and get Anna
interested in helping you, it may lead to
greater confidence between father and child”—
with this and other fatherly advice the genial
old Dr. left her to think over what he had 
said, and went back to his patient, whom he
found in a high fever, tossing and moaning,
and talking incoherently.  As soon as he could
leave the room he informed Miss Conway of
her uncle’s condition and that he should re-
main through the night; sent off messages to
his young assistant, and gaveinstructions that no


one should be admitted to the house except by
his approval.
	Miss Conway followed the Dr's. advice and
took her cousin with her to the sick room, but
she possessed none of the aptitude or adapta-
bility for nursing that seemed so natural to
her cousin Jane. The two girls were widely
different in every respect, Jane possessed those
qualities that in a man would be termed
masterful,yet there was no display of authority.
Anna was the very opposite, she was without
the balance of character, that under other cir-
cumstances, she might have acquired; her gov-
erness had taught her that ladies only needed
accomplishments; and the books she had read
only fed her vanity and filled her head with
false ideas of love. French novels were her
great admiration, and it was with much per-
suasion that her cousin had induced her to read
books of a better kind, which she selected,and
talked of them to her in such a way as to
awaken an interest in her. Is it any wonder
that with her mind fed upon chaff or poisoned
with sophistry she should be weak and vacil-
lating in character, incapable of judging right
from wrong; she had no standard to judge by;
religion to her was a myth, and yet she was a
girl of good impulses, innocent of wrong in-
tentions as a child, and susceptible of truth
when presented. Her cousin Jane was the
best tutor she could have, for without any
exercise of authority she impressed her with
her personality, and could no doubt have
molded her in mind and developed her best
capabilities, had it not been for the unfortunate
attachment she had previously formed for
Mr. Walton.
	When Miss Hilliard was informed of her
father's illness she was greatly shocked,though
she was wholly unaware of the cause; she
feared her only parent more than she loved
him, but now when she saw him lie so low and
helpless, this great, strong man, she felt a sort
of pity akin to tenderness; and she forgot her
own weakness in devoting herself to him. It
was a new experience, and it was good for her
in that it brought her out of herself—and gave
her new thoughts and fresh duties.
	In a few days Sir Edward was able to sit
up and Jane began to wonder if the Dr.
would keep his word. She realized during the
time of his illness, how proud he was of his
rank and how unforgiving; it leaked out in
his deliriam, and how hard it was going to be
for him to forgive even his own daughter for
and indiscretion; Anna's health improved
rapidly and Jane's fear was that she would
soon be going out in the grounds and meet
with Mr. Walton, for with her quick percep-
tion she passed judgement upon him at their
first interview and believed him capable of
any intrigue or plot, should he be unable to
obtain an interview openly.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[column 1]
		COMFORT FOR THE MOTHER.
	The following was written to Mrs. A. R. Shaw of Ogden
on the death of her infant son.
[Republished by request]
A flood of light the midnight filled
And every sound to silence stilled,
And right before the mother stood
A stranger, mighty, pure and good,
He looked into her anxious eyes
Watching the varying feelings rise,
And knew her soul’s calm, steadfast truth
And all her blameless life from youth;
Then answering her eyes of prayer
He opened one white hand, and there
Lay three rich jewels, Oh more bright
Than e’er had met her mortal sight.
And ere she yet could understand
He laid them in her trembling hand.
“Study their beauty well’’ spake he,

[column 2]
"They are thine for all eternity."
Lo! by their light new life began,
New thoughts through all her being ran,
While ecstacy thrilled through her frame
The stranger gently spoke her name,
 And as she raised to him her eyes
Took from her hands the precious prize,
"The Father sent these but to show—
What ’waits you while through life you go,
Safe in the keeping of His love
They shall be yours again, above.’’
Nor artist’s power nor poet’s spell
The words he taught could keep or tell, 
They went beyond the things of earth
To where the mysteries have birth;
Teaching why wrong and sin should grow
They took from sorrow half its woe,
Why the soul's idols turn to clay
And God’s own gifts are drawn away,
And how, though thorns bestrewed her path
Her soul its guardian angel hath.

Then, when the holy guest was gone
A lesser light came, it was dawn.
Like one alone yet fearing not—
Silence—with sacred meaning fraught,
God’s blessing seemed so near her there, 
Life’s dullest burdens seemed no care,
For that sweet sense filled all her soul,
And lightened, strengthened blessed the whole.
Was this life zealot’s faith, ideal?
No, by His blessing this was real,
Stripped of the curse by childlike faith.
Earth wounds pain less, no trials scathe;
And while the mortal still endures,
Through deeper tests still strength assures;
Just as the heart of His own Son
Bore suff'ring ’till his time was done,
Not for wrong doing but to prove
The soul God guards, naught else can move.

The days went on and oft she thought
Of the bright gems the stranger brought.
Smiling to know their light should shine
Her own ’mid splendors all divine,
And strove that outward grace to win
Worthy the grace of soul within;
Yet only half their meaning knew—
That splendors cast their shadows too.

Heaven remembered her and gave
The gift her riven heart had craved,
A babe, whose wondrous eyes revealed
Pure mysteries from earth concealed,
Their silent beauty almost speech,
Diviner truths and love to teach.
They led her soul 'mid earthly scenes
Forgetting earth, where—downward leans
The Unseen—so close to the veil 
It almost touches spirits frail,
Worn faint with trial, 'til the breath
Through joy or woe—is kissed by death— 
And there her soul heard other things
Just as the blind feel passing wings!
So, day by day they lived until
Life seemed so fitted to God’s will;
And prayer the sceptre; ’neath its sway
Real, grateful bliss filled each fair day.

Day hath its end, its night; souls too,
Have lost their sun of  life from view;
No hands that lift, no voice that calls
But vainly on the darkness falls
Until His hour. However lost
In sorrow's wild, His love hath crossed
The trackless waste, He knoweth where
The mourner kneeleth in despair.
O, mourning mother! Not alone 
Thy riven heart in sorrow’s moan,
Not bitter only, is thy lot,
Thou hast not been by heaven forgot;
No stain of earth had marred the name
Of that fair boy thy soul did claim,
No fault had dimmed those beauteous eyes,
Too bright were they for these dull skies;
Thy boys—lo—God hath taken them,
Thy jewels, thy soul’s diadem.

Remember her that mother pure,
Who didst the agony endure

[column 3]
On Calvary’s hill thou know'st in part
The anguish of her sacred heart.
Thrice blessed is that home wherein
The shad'wy wing of death hath been;
Thou hast had joy, possession, love,
Now, each of these, lifted above
Earth’s marring or its robbing, bear
Their witness to thy portion there
Where blessings past and present all
Upward ascending, ever call
The tireless sonl and wearied feet
With them before His throne to meet.

The sweetest voices earth hath known
Were those attuned to sorrow’s moan, 
And nearer sanctified are they,
Where grief hath washed in tears away
The idle thoughts of cloudless hours,
Forgetting how, for sins of ours
The only Sinless, bowed his head,
And worlds with Mary wept her dead.

Not wind and wave in furious storm,
Snatched from thine arms his precious form,
Not stealthy foe nor cruel flame
Thy lovely babe had power to claim,
Not blighted by long suffering
Ere the loosed soul its flight could wing—
Rejoice, O, mother! In thine arms
Death could not thrill him with alarms;
His last sweet words were unto thee,
Thine the last face his eyes could see,
Safe in our mountain home he sleeps;
While the wide world still onward keeps 
It’s headlong course of pride and wrong,
Warring ’gainst Truth with hatred strong—
O! better in that little grave,
With mission ended, spirit saved.
				Augusta Joyce Crocheron.
South Bountiful, June 13, 1889.


