[Vol6 | February 1919 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Home | Title: Guide Lessons - Lesson IV - Home Courses]

Guide Lessons - Lesson IV - Home Courses
======================================================================

LESSON IV. Home Courses. Fourth Week in March. PHASES OF GROWTH AND THEIR CHARACTERISTICS Most people are so accustomed to see their children grow that they do not trouble themselves with the details of the process, nor consider in what way this may be promoted or retarded. Growth in human life is the series of changes associated with increase in number, size, and complexity of the different parts of the body, and our knowledge of growth should include information relating to the varying development of all the organs, the significant changes in their mode of carrying on their work from birth to old age, the possible deviations from the normal, and the degree of resistance to the various diseases peculiar to the characteristics of different age periods. Mental growth continues to increase in complexity through life, actual physical growth ceases at about the twenty-fifth year; though slow growth in height continues in some individuals until thirty; and increase in chest girth goes on until fifty. During the first seven years, child development takes place most obviously in respect of size; while later, it seems to be more directly associated with the elaboration, or increase in the complexity of the tissues thus growth may be said to have a two-fold character: (1) increase in size and substance; and (2) development of capacity to perform more complicated activities. Children may normally vary one to two years from the average, and height especially is always influenced by race and family predisposition. Until recent times, the opinion was held that when rapid growth of body ceased for a time, the child's mind seemed to expand more quickly, though more recent authorities affirm that increase in height, weight, strength and mental development coincide; as, for instance, the child tall for its age is also more mentally proficient and suffers if deprived of suitable educational opportunity. Different parts of the body do not grow in the same time nor in the same proportion; for example, the mass of the brain increases from two to three fold in the first year of life; whereas, there is an increase of but 10 per cent in the second year, and the actual size of the brain is little increased after the eighth year. The annual growth in size of the heart is about 8 per cent between seven and fourteen, but in the year of puberty, it is 20 per cent. Rate of growth can be computed by three methods: chronological, physiological, and psychological. To an increasing degree, judgment of a child's progress by the actual years it has lived is giving place to the much more accurate estimate based upon the stage of physiological development it has reached. Differences in physiological age may amount to as much as three years among a group of children all of the same chronological age; hence the need for varying treatment of children who are too liable to be all placed in the same class. Physiological age refers to the relative development of organs, bones, weight, height, sex maturity, etc.; psychological age, to mental ability and maturity. There is reason to believe that growth of all kinds follows certain laws, though these are not as yet thoroughly understood. They have, however, a rhythmic tendency: that is to say, we observe periodic alternations of greater or less activity  thus growth in weight is more marked in the fall; growth in height more noticeable in the spring. Growth in weight is more variable than growth in height, and is much affected by the health and nurture of the child. The weight at a given age may be above the average and yet the child may be flabby, anaemic, and of poor constitution. However, one or all forms of normal growth may be retarded, and often checked by illness, repressive discipline, unsuitable diet, unsanitary environment, loss of sleep, premature responsibility, or excessive pampering. A comparison of the growth curves for girls and boys shows considerable difference between the sexes. Girls reach their maximum adolescent rate about three years earlier than boys. Although the transition from one stage to another in the different periods of growth is very gradual, certain marked characteristics admit of the following classifications: (1) Prenatal, or a period of very rapid growth, during which all the organs are formed but the development is immature, to which fact is due the helplessness and plasticity of a baby at birth. During the nine months preceding birth, weight increases nearly a billion fold and the ovum develops from a diameter of 1-125 of an inch to a length of twenty-one inches. (2) Infancy is also a period of extreme rapidity but relative simplicity of growth. Digestive system is the weakest link in an infant's chain of life, hence the great importance of maternal feeding. Infantile powers are chiefly receptive and obviously immature, so that this might be described as a vegetative period, during which body and mind are nourished and strengthened under the influence of warmth, quiet, absolute regularity, suitable food and adequate exercise (taken by the infant on its mother's knee during its daily toilet). (3) Early childhood is a stage characterized by restless activity, alternating with prolonged, profound sleep. Awakening curiosity demands the reasons why for all observations, associated with a vivid imagination, which finds difficulty in distinguishing fact from fancy. Much attention should be given to the formation of established habits in regularity of daily routine, and in the care of the body. Small children are very susceptible to infection, to which actual mental arrest may often be attributed. Mimicry is at its height, and life long habits are formed chiefly by the imitation of adult manners and standards. (4) Later childhood is the most active health period of life. The evidences of external growth are less obvious, but ability for muscular coordination has vastly increased. All forms of activity are desirable, such as, skipping, climbing, drawing, swimming, swinging, etc. A systematic education should be directed to the formation of good habits, to the training of eye and ear to observe accurately and cooperate with body and mind, rather than to exaggerated reliance upon the printed page. During the period of second dentition there is often a temporary "fall back" due to difficulty of mastication and instability from rapid brain and muscle development, etc. This is sometimes called by doctors the "fatigue period." The characteristics of adolescence will follow in a later lesson. Suitable, regular, well masticated food; abundant sleep under good but not self-indulgent conditions, scrupulous cleanliness, adequate clothing; sufficient exercise; joy and pride in work  these constitute the hygienic creed of youth during its apprenticeship to life. Why then is the world filled with delicate people, or with those defective in some form or other of physical or mental development? Because of the failure to recognize how variable are conditions at every phase of growth, and that the hours of sleep, the quality and quantity of food, the kind and duration of exercise, even the form of play  all demand adjustment as the child passes from infancy to adolescence. The essential study might be made from books, but there must be careful regulation of practice accompanied by the spirit of devotion, willing to make personal sacrifices for the child's needs. There must also be a revision of many false standards which, for example set care of the house above care of the child. REFERENCES. Child Care  The Preschool Age; Infant Care, Series 2. By Mrs. Max West, U. S. Dept. of Labor, Children's Bureau, Wash., D. C. Child Life. By Alice Ravenhill, Utah Agricultural College, Logan, Utah. The Hygiene of a Child. By Lewis Terman. Houghton Mifflin Co., Chicago, Ill. The Individual in the Making. By E. Kirkpatrick. Houghton Mifflin Co., Chicago, Ill. QUESTIONS. 1. What is growth? 2. What are its characteristics? 3. What is the usual division of its phases, and why? 4. What difficulties are there in meeting the apparently simple requirements of childhood? 5. Give illustrations of how these requirements vary at different age periods. 6. By what influences is growth most affected? NOTICE TO GENEALOGICAL WORKERS. Now that our meetings are discontinued once more, we suggest to the sisters everywhere to take up a detailed labor in the genealogy of the family, both for the husband's and the wife's lines. Make out your living records to the latest generation. Then make a card index of the names. Next, get out all the family temple records, and see that every name is rightly written and all possible work done. Write to relatives and to the Genealogical Society of Utah for more data; write to parish clerks and to old friends for further information. Sisters, spend a little time daily making up good and suitable temple clothing. Any and all such labors will be both profitable and pleasant.