[Vol57 | February 1970 | Page 147 | General Feature | Homemaking-"She Stretcheth Out Her Hand to the Poor . . ." Celestia | J. Taylor]
HOMEMAKING—Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness Discussion 8—''She Stretcheth Out Her Hand to the Poor; Yea, She Reacheth Forth Her Hands to the Needy."' (Prov. 31:20.) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, October 1970 OBJECTIVE: To show that compassionate service is part of each woman's role in the welfare program. INTRODUCTION The word "compassion" is a Christ-like term and one closely associated with the Savior in his brief span of life upon the earth. It is deeply rooted in the second great commandment, "Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself' (Matt. 22:39) and in the golden rule which is closely related to it, "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them " (Matt. 7:12.) The word takes on added meaning when we couple it with another highly connotative term, and we say "compassionate service," a phrase 

147 February 1970

 beautifully poetic in its fusion of sound and sense. This phrase is indivisibly connected to Relief Society and therefore to the Latter-day Saint woman. Love-inspired compassionate service is the thing for which Relief Society is best known and... Respected. Sympathetic, tender, merciful service to those in distress is, and always has been, the fundamental work of Relief Society. The relief of the poor, the destitute, the widow, and the orphan; ministrations to the sick and downtrodden; comfort to the sorrowing and to those whose souls are weary; and the exercise of benevolence are the principal purposes for which Relief Society was organized. (History of Relief Society, p. 61.) THE WOMAN'S ROLE DEFINED Since the organization of Relief Society in 1842, Latter-day Saint women have been fulfilling these purposes and have attached to themselves as their motto, "Charity never faileth." In the words of President Spafford,... Charity is the expression of unselfish love which builds up = and strengthens not only the physical but the spiritual in our people and helps the individual and the family to realize their full potentials. (From an address in Welfare Meeting, held April 7, 1967.) Today, the welfare program encompasses far more' than merely taking care of the physical needs of our people. It embraces many activities which have to do with the rehabilitation of the soul and spirit as well. The admonition which the Prophet Joseph Smith gave to the sisters in the early days of the Church that they " might provoke the brethren to good works in looking to the wants of the poor—searching after objects of charity, and in administering to their wants." 148 (History of Relief Society, p. 18), are just as pertinent today as they were then. As women of the Church we need to recognize our individual part in this great program and fulfill the role which is assigned to us. PUTTING OUR OWN HOUSES IN ORDER Ourrecent homemaking discussions have pointed out our responsibilities in preparing our own homes and families to be selfsustaining. When we extend our own houses to include any close relatives or family connections who might be in need, we are giving "compassionate service" to our own and to that extent are aiding the welfare program even though it may not be given credit as Relief Society compassionate service. When we extend such service to a needy neighbor or friend, we contribute even more compassionate service. HELPING OUR WARD FAMILY As sisters in Relief Society, one of our responsibilities is to devote whatever time we can in caring for the sick and the needy in our ward family. When such help is needed, we may assist them in learning to sew and cook and develop their abilities in all the homemaking arts by urging their attendance at Relief Society homemaking meetings, as well as by giving them special help in their own homes. In addition: We can render compassionate service in times of sorrow and bereavement by assisting in whatever ways our help might be needed. We can extend the hand of friendship to those who are lonely and in need of comfort. We can visit the homebound and cheer their spirits by reading to them and by administering to their needs in other ways. We can give nursing care and special assistance when called by our Relief Society president or by the bishop, as the case may be. Those of us who are trained in special ways can provide such help as tutoring services for backward children or for "dropouts" who need special guidance, opening our homes to the Indian children who need companionship and training, giving volunteer service wherever the need arises. We will benefit threefold by giving of ourselves in compasslonate service, for as the poet Lowell says, "Who gives himself with his alms feeds three, Himself, his hungering neighbor, and me." (James R. Lowell, Lowell's Complete Poems, [Boston and New York: Houghton, Mifflin and Company, 1899], p. 111.) Lesson Department CONCLUSION The world today is sorely in need of the administering services of love and compassion which stem only from the human heart. Women are by nature loving and compassionate. The Prophet Joseph Smith recognized these womanly virtues and pronounced a wonderful blessing upon the heads of the sisters if they would act accordingly. This is a charitable Society, and according to your natures; it is natural for females to have feelings of charity and benevolence... If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be _ restrained from being your associates. (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Vol. IV, p. 605 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church].)