[Vol57 | February 1970 | Page 84 | Special Feature | To Save Souls | Marion G. Romney]
To Save Souls Elder Marion G. Romney Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Stake Board Session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 2, 1969] = The Prophet Joseph Smith, early in the history of the Relief Society, instructed "The Ladies' Relief Society," as he called it then, that it was "not only to relieve the poor but to save souls." This was a charge to the "Ladies" to assist in the Lord's great "... Work and.. -gloryto bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (Moses 1:39.) It is about this awesome assignment your Relief Society Presidency has asked me to speak a few words this afternoon. The importance of saving souls has frequently been emphasized by the Lord. To John and Peter Whitmer, On separate occasions, he said: - behold, I say unto you, that the thing which will be of the most worth unto you will be to declare repentance unto this people, that you may bring souls unto me, that you may rest with them in the kingdom of my Father... (D&C 15:6; 16:6.) 84 To Cowdery, and David Whitmer, he gave this counsel: Joseph Smith, Oliver Remember the worth of souls is great in the sight of God; And if it so be that you should labor all your days... And bring, save it be one soul unto me, how great shall be your joy with him in the kingdom of my Father. (D&C 18:10, 15.) These scriptures teach that a soul is saved by being brought back into the "kingdom of God." What he was speaking about when he used the w
ord "soul," the Lord explained by saying "... The spirit and the body are the soul of man." (D&C 88:15.) The word "body" as here used, conveys the same meaning to almost everyone; and Latter-day Saints understand the meaning of the word "spirit." But since our concept of a spirit is not so widely understood, an explanation may be in order. INTELLIGENCE The Lord taught the Prophet Joseph Smith that: Man was in the beginning with God. [That] Intelligence, or the light of truth, was not created or made (D&C 93:29.) And to Abraham, he declared:... T rule in the heavens above, and in the earth beneath... Over all the intelligences thine eyes have seen. As to what he had _ seen, Abraham wrote: Now the Lord had shown unto me...

[To Save Souls Marion G. Romney]

The intelligences that were organized before the world was; and among all these there were many of the noble and great ones... For he stood among those that were spirits. (Abraham 3:21-23.) SPIRITS These scriptures teach that the spirits are created from that "'intelligence, or light of truth" which was not created or made, but was in the beginning with God. The Lord revealed the key to the means by which these spirits were created, when he said that the inhabitants of the worlds "'are begotten sons and daughters unto God." (D&C 76: 24.) As to the likeness of these spirit "sons and _ daughters" "begotten... Unto God," we are given a clear understanding in the Book of Ether. It is there stated that it was some 2200 years B. C. That "the Lord showed himself" to the Brother of Jared, and said:... Behold, I am Jesus Christ. Seest thou that ye are created after mine own image? Yea, even all men were created in the beginning after mine own image. Behold, this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my spirit; and man To Save Souls have I created after the body of my spirit; and even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit will I appear unto my people in the flesh. (Ether 3:14-16.) We further learn through the Prophet, that a spirit has a material body.... All spirit is matter, [he said] but it is more fine or pure, and can only be discerned by purer eyes;. When our bodies are purified we shall see that it is all matter. (D&C 131:7- 8.) THE BIRTH OF SOULS Just before Jesus was born in Bethlehem... The voice of the Lord came unto him [Nephi] saying:... The time is at hand... And on the morrow come I into the world. (3 Ne. 1:12-13.) Accordingly, Jesus Christ, the spirit who had appeared to the Brother of Jared some 2200 years earlier, came "into the world" in a mortal body. As the son of Elohim and Mary, he entered mortality as a living soul. So it has always been. When a mother gives birth to a child, a human soul—a spirit child of God in a mortal body—is born. This is the answer to the Psalmist's query: "What is man?" (Ps. 8:4.) It also gives meaning to the awe-inspired lines of Shakespeare: What a piece of work is man! How noble in reason! How infinite in faculties! In form and moving, how express and admirable! In action, how like an angel! In apprehension, how like a god! (Hamlet Act 2, Scene 2.) THE WORTH OF A SOUL IS MEASURED IN ITS POTENTIAL The Creator endowed all living things with seed in themselves to bring forth offspring having the 

85 February 1970

 capability to reach, in full matu-. Rity, the likeness of the parent. This is true with the offspring of herbs, animals, and man. It is also true with the offspring of God. Being his begotten spint child, a human soul is endowed with the potential to become like God, his Father.... Now are we the sons of God, [said John] and it doth not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that, when he shall appear, we shall be like him (1 John 3:2.) Jesus enjoined men to aspire to this high station, when he said: Therefore I would that ye should be perfect even as I, or your Father who is in heaven is perfect. (3 Ne. 12:48.) THE PLAN His purpose, to save souls—by bringing to pass their "immortality and eternal life'—God has been pursuing from the beginning. His plan for accomplishing this was announced at the great preearth council, where "there stood among" the spirits, one... Like unto God [who] said unto those who were with him: We will go down, for there is space there, and we will take of these materials, and we will make an earth whereon these may dwell; And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them; And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon... And they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads forever and ever. (Abraham 3:24-26.) That we are now human souls is proof that we kept our first estate. And we are assured of being further added upon with immortality. But we are not yet assured of that salvation envisioned by the Prophet Joseph in 86 his charge to the ladies of the Relief Society. In our quest for that salvation, we now face the greatest challenge we have yet met or that we shall ever meet: the challenge to keep our second estate. This requires us to "do all things whatsoever the Lord" our God commands us. If we succeed, we "shall have glory added upon... [our] heads forever and ever." We shall become perfect, even as Jesus and our Father in heaven are perfect. This is what it means to be saved. If some of you should now ask what this long discourse has to do with our charge to "save souls," this would be my answer. I have sought to remind you of what a soul is; of its infinite value, and potential; what it means to save a soul, and how a soul may be saved, because I believe that a knowledge of these things is necessary if we are to be effective in our efforts to help save souls. I believe that a guide who would lead another must have a correct understanding of the desired goal; of what it means to reach it, and how to reach it, and be on the way himself. I am convinced that it is one's clear and constant view of these things which gives him motivation and guidance. It has been the vision of Zion, with the hope and expectation of securing a place therein, which has held the righteous on course through the ages. President Young, back in the 1850's, reminded a group of saints that it was not.. A vision of driving cattle across the plains... Where you would be mired in this or that mudhole [nor of] the stampedes among the cattle, and those of a worse character among the people, [but the] vision of Zion... In its beauty and encourage those With Whom Blory [which cheered them on]. We are called to labor to Strive. - her. As we do so, it might be Ws and disappointments of this morta] Well to r mem ber that although 3 In like Manner held to his course hem he Said € Said it this wa: Let your labors be Mostly confined to. Hose around you, and in the Circle of ':: Jesus the author and finisher of your own acquaintance, as far as know]. Our faith I I - for the JOY that was Set edge is. Before him endured the cross (Heb. 12:2.) Fearnot, J 4M with thee, O be not dismayed, acquain tance," because he Said: Seis thy Go and will still give = Let this Society teach women how lal strengthen thee, help thee, and cause to behave towards their husbands to ee to stand treat them With mildness and affection pheld by my righteous, omnipotent €n a man igs borne down with trouble hand When he is Perplexed With care and dif. Ficulty, if he Can meet g smile Instead And another oF an argumant or 4 murmur—ijf he it il g ll cal And Should we die before Our journey's ee ee ae 5 feelin ie all is well! When the Mind js 80ing to €spair, jt We then are free from toil and SOrrow, too;, an With the just we Shall dwel]! Ness. (DHC I V:606 So doing, we Shall be about the were loath to depart for home business of Saving our OWN souls because their Working mothers not only, byt we can then 80 forth were not at home. Was reminded 

87 February 1970

 of these lines by Esther Hull Doolittle: Sometimes when I get home from school And mother isn't there (Even though she'll be back soon And I don't really care) Still all the furniture looks queer, The house seems hushed and sad; And then I hear her coming in And, oh boy! Am I glad! Ladies of the Relief Society who understand and appreciate what we have here said concerning the saving of souls and the influence of their absence from home upon their children, will not leave their homes except under the most stringent circumstances. In no other area of their great work, can "The Ladies' Relief Society" do more to save souls than in motivating themselves, and all other women in —- the Church, to plant in the minds and hearts of their children the aspirations which inspired Eliza R. Snow's great poem: I'll serve the Lord while I am young, And in my early days, Devote the music of my tongue To my Redeemer's praise. I'll praise His name, that He has giv'n Me parentage and birth Among the most beloved of heav'n That dwell upon the earth. O Lord, my parents here preserve, To teach me righteousness, That my young feet may never swerve From paths of holiness. And, like the faithful ones of old Who now behold Thy face, May I be formed in virtue's mould To fill a holy place. That this may be our goal and success, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.