[Vol57 | February 1970 | Page 104 | General Feature | Make a New Start with Alaskan Sourdough Edythe | K. Watson]
Make a New Start With Alaskan Sourdough me new interest in breadmaking. Sourdough hotcakes, waffles and muffins have a special delectable flavor—one which would delight any family. Make a starter for your own use. It is simple to do in our modern day. It may also prove useful for those who have canyon homes, those who enjoy camping out, or who take fishing or hunting expeditions—and for all who prefer sourdough bread. The following instructions and recipes have been carefully prepared and graciously shared by the sisters of the Alaska Stake. The Alaska Extension Service supplied some of the details used. For best results use glass or pottery containers. Never use a metal container or leave a metal spoon in the starter. CH) SOURDOUGH STARTER 2 c. Flour 2 c. Warm water 1 package dry yeast Make this starter only when you have forgotten to save a start, or when you are making it for the first time. Combine ingredients and mix well. Place in a warm place or closed cupboard overnight. In the morning put 12 c. Of the starter in a scalded pint jar with a tight lid and store in the refrigerator or a cool place for future use. This is sourdough starter. The remaining batter can be used immediately for pancakes, waffles, muffins, bread or cake. To use the starter again, place it in a medium-size mixing bowl. Add 2 c. Milk and 2 c. Flour. Beat well and set in a warm place to develop overnight. In the morning the batter will have gained 1% again its bulk and be covered with air bubbles. It will have a pleasant yeasty odor. Now, set aside 2 c. Sponge in the refrigerator jar for your sourdough starter for next time. 105 SOURDOUGH HOTCAKES 1 tsp. Salt 1 tbsp. Sugar 1 tsp. Soda 1 to 2 eggs 3 tbsp. Meited shortening in the evening or 6 to 8 hours before using, set the sponge (batter) as directed above. In the morning save 2 c. For next starter. Add salt, sugar, soda, and eggs and blend well. Add melted shortening. Bake on a hot griddle, turn once. For interesting variations add %% c. Whole wheat flour, cornmeal, wheat germ, or bran flakes to the batter. The 2° eggs in the recipe will provide the liquid for this addition. FS SOURDOUGH WAFFLES tsp. Salt tbsp. Sugar tsp. Soda 2 eggs Y% c. Melted shortening — ft pe Set sponge as directed above, making it slightly thicker, and let stand overnight. Remove the usual ¥2 c. Starter for next time. To the remaining sponge add eggs and dry ingredients and mix well. Add melted shortening just before baking. Bake according to directions that come with the waffle iron. RY SOURDOUGH MUFFINS 1% c. Whole wheat flour Y2 c. Sugar 1__ tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Soda 1 sc. Raisins (optional) ¥2 _c. Melted shortening 1 or 2 eggs Set the sponge as usual, saving % c. For next starter. Sift dry ingredients into a bowl. Make a well in the center. Mix egg and shortening thoroughly with the sponge. Pour this into the well in the flour and stir only to moisten the flour, Fill muffin tins % full. Bake at 375° for 30 to 35 minutes. Makes 12 large muffins. 106 SOURDOUGH BREAD 4c. Sifted flour (or more) 2 tbsp. Sugar 1 tsp. Salt 2 'tbsp. Shortening % tsp. Soda 1 or 2 eggs Set sponge as usual, saving % c. Starter. Sift dry ingredients into a bowl, making a weil in the center. Add shortening to the sponge and mix well. Add beaten eggs. Pour into the well of flour. Add enough flour to make a soft dough for kneading. Knead on a floured board for 10 minutes. Place in a greased bowl. Cover with a towel and let rise in a warm place for 2 to 4 hours or until doubled. (If you want bread to rise faster, add some dry yeast dissolved in % c. Warm water to the sponge.) Dissolve the % tsp. Soda in a tbsp. Of warm water and add to the dough. Knead it in thoroughly. Shape dough into loaves in bread pans and set aside to rise. When doubled, bake at - 375 degrees for 50 to 60 minutes. Ca SOURDOUGH CHOCOLATE CAKE Zc. Starter 1 c. Milk 1% c. Flour Mix and let stand 2 to 3 hours in a warm place until bubbly and there is a clean sour milk odor. Lsc. Sugar Y, ~_c. Shortening Y, tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 tsp. Cinnamon 1% tsp. Soda 2 eggs 3 squares melted chocolate Cream shortening, sugar, flavorings, salt, and soda. Add eggs one at a time, beating. Well after each addition. Combine creamed mixture and melted chocolate with sourdough mixture. Stir 300 strokes or mix at low speed until blended. Pour into two layer pans or one large pan. Bake at 350° for 25 minutes or until done. Cool and frost with butterscotchchocolate frosting or other icing of your choice.