[Vol57 | February 1970 | Page 146 | General Feature | Visiting Teacher Message-"Men Are, That They Might Have Joy" Alice | Colton Smith]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE — Truths to Live By (Correlated With the Family Home Evening Manual, 1969-70) Message 8—''Men Are, That They Might Have Joy'' (2 Ne. 2:25.) Alice Colton Smith Northern Hemisphere: First Week, May 1970 Southern Hemisphere: First Week, October 1970 OBJECTIVE: To remember that one of God's great objectives is that man "might have joy. It was her first week in an eastern city. She, a girl from the western United States, was attending the biggest junior high school she had ever seen. Uncertain, shy, and frightened, she tried to make herself as inconspicuous as possible. It was Friday morning and the long week was coming to a close. Horrified she heard the teacher call her name to come to the front of the class and lead it in reading the scriptures and the morning prayer. Fortunately, unlike today, simple _ religious services were allowed in the schools. The walk to the front of the room seemed endless. She felt every eye staring at her. Without looking up, she opened the Bible with stiff fingers. What should she read? What could she read? A moment of fumbling and there in front of her were the reassuring words, the comforting, beloved words read so often at home. It was her favorite Psalm. Too young yet to understand completely their full meaning, the beautiful words were even so an anchor in the storm: 146 I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help. My help cometh from the Lord, which made heaven and earth. He will not suffer thy foot to be moved: he that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is thy keeper: the Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve thee from all evil: he shall preserve thy soul. The Lord shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from this time forth, and even for evermore. (Ps. 121.) As she read the familiar, beloved lines, fright left her. The Lord was her strength and refuge. Out of panic came comfort and joy. '"".. Men are, that they might have joy." (2 Ne. 2:25.) In a world where uncertainty, fear, and evil are common these words are indeed welcome. The earth was created to make joy possible. Strange as it seems, to accomplish this purpose of God man must be enticed by both good and evil to make choice real. He must learn the law and the consequences of choice. When men were redeemed from the fall this joy became possible because they became "... Free forever, knowing good from evil; to act for themselves and not to be acted upon." (2 Ne. 2: 26.) What did Lehi mean by "free forever" and "to act for themselves and not to be acted upon'? How do these concepts contribute to joy? What is joy? How do we acquire it? There is much discussion of joy in the scriptures. As King Benjamin gave his last great address to the Nephites they were " filled with joy, having received a remission of their sins, and having peace of conscience, because Lesson Department of the exceeding faith which they had in Jesus Christ who should come. " (Mosiah 4:3.) For the Lord shall comfort Zion, he will comfort all her waste places; and he will make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like the garden of the Lord. Joy and gladness shall be found therein, thanksgiving and the voice of melody. (2 Ne. 8:3.) God's desire is that we will know joy, and we experience it many times in life when we are doing his will, but we must remember, "Wherefore, fear not even unto death; for in this world your joy is not full, but in me your joy is full." (D&C 101:36.)