[Vol57 | February 1970 | Page 110 | General Feature | The Creek Taught Me Anny | M. Campbell]
The Creek Taught Me Anny M. Campbell From where I sit here in our living room, my eyes rest on a pretty white rock on our bookshelf. This rock brings beautiful memories back to me One evening last summer, while the sun was setting, my husband, our son, and I, went on a trip in the mountains. We found a fine place for camping. After supper, we put up our cots. Then we knelt together in prayer, and went to bed. I lay awake for sometime, looking up at the stars. The stillness felt soothing. The only sound was a very soft lulling sound. I asked my husband what he thought it was. From his cot, close by mine, he answered sleepily, "I guess it is the wind through the treetops." A little later, I knew that both my husband and our boy were sound asleep. I was still wide awake, listening to that soft little sound in the great stillness. Suddenly, I knew what it was. It was a creek—and not far off. I will go and find it in the morning, I thought happily. The sun was shining when I woke up and had already been looking around a bi I followed the little path he showed me. The creek. On this note I fell asleep. The next morning. My husband was up, t. He told me there was a creek nearby. It was short, and ended by the edge of As I looked at the sunlight glittering in the clear, sparkling water, thoughts flowed through my mind. This creek is like life. Up, there was a bend. The creek seemed to hid it from sight. I well knew it did not e mountains. Neither do our lives start back i I looked up the creek, just a little way narrow down there, and ferns and leaves nd there, but it came from far up in the n hazy infancy, they also come around the bend, from high up, and far away, I thought. Then I looked at the rocks in the creek—some small, others quite large. They were of many soft colors. The water rushed over and around them. What beautiful obstacles they are! I thought, and what exquisite noises they create. They make the creek sing. Obstacles become opportunities to create music in our lives, and beauty in our souls. And now, as the days come and go, the little white rock on our bookshelf silently reminds me of the singing creek and what it taught me. 110 Hobby Features happiness in creating lovely, colorful handmade articles. She has spent countless hours knitting, embroidering, quilting, and crocheting. In addition, she keeps her yard full of lovely blossoms that everyone may enjoy. Sister McQuivey has served as a faithful visiting teacher for more than fifty years, always going the extra mile to maintain loving relationships with those whom she taught. She is the mother of seven children. Fifty-four grandchildren and sixty great-grandchildren enjoy the beautiful handmade articles she gives them regularly. Mary Jane Ashworth, Las Vegas East Stake, Nevada, has made a hobby of quilting, needlepoint, crocheting, and sewing throughout her lifetime. She designs her own quilt patterns. Much of her lovely work is sought after at bazaars. Sister Ashworth has served as quilting chairman in Relief Society for many years, and has served more than fifty years as a visiting teacher. She has six children, and there are seventeen grandchildren and sixteen great-grandchildren. She delights in making quilts and other lovely articles for her family and many friends.