WHO NEEDS ME? The greatest need of the human heart is encouragement. The cruelest weapon held by the powers of evil over the human soul is discouragement. An Arab legend has it that Lucifer was deprived of all his weapons for instilling motives of crime and sin in mortals. He begged for one weapon to be left, just one little insignificant tool, that of discouragement. And Gabriel, thinking the tool was so small and so harmless, left it with Lucifer who laughed secretly as he left the sacred presence, for he knew that every crime in the calendar could be committed if he began subtly with the weapon of discouragement. All mortals, from the cradle to the grave, like to feel that they are important to somebody and something. The child is happy in the knowledge that he is his "mother's little man"' or that she is "father's darling," without whom life would be unbearable. All through the growing years the child needs the stimulus of encouragement, not flattery, not indulgence, but that encouragement which springs from the knowledge that his help is important, his presence a blessing. Married companionship rests solidly, not upon romantic love, but upon the solid basis of mutual need and mutual encouragement. Rob a man or a woman, young or old, of the feeling that he or she is of value to the family, to the home or to the church, and you have given death his swiftest weapon. It is cowardly for a Latter-day Saint to permit discouragement to take possession of his soul. We are needed, the Lord does want us to help in his gracious work. One might say He needs 
 us proportionately as we need Him. So much for the personal side: of this mattef. - When you want to stimulate and buoy up your own sorrowing heart, or to smooth your hours of pain and distress, persuade some other afflicted one that life would be barren and effort would be lost unless the patient sufferer recovers health, and the will achieves determination to live and strive. We are often told to send flowers to the living, much more vital is it that we should say a dozen words of encouragement, reminding our friend of his worth and service in his home, his church, and to humanity in general. We are all needed. I need you, dear patient reader, to follow these flowing thoughts of mine quite as much as you need me to voice them, and to give you pause in the midst of your own many discouragements.. Let me whisper this sacret in your ear; every time you try to ecourage some one else your own soul will be flooded with a light and glow of peace and good cheer. Try it next time when the gloom is heavy and the load is barren. DRESS REFORM We are happy to call attention to the timely. And excellent announcement from Superintendent Adam S. Bennion, in regard to the dress rules of the school girls in the Church schools. These rules are issued not in the spirit of restraint for the girl so much, as in the spirit of protection to herself and her brother in the matter of chastity and right behavior. If there are any mothers who have not yet explained to their daughters the vital reason why girls should not expose their bodies, as is done today on the streets and in our ball rooms, it is high time that they begin an exhaustive set of private lectures and explanations to the girls on the difference between the temptation of a girl and the temptation of a boy in sex matters, The home is the place where these instructions should begin, and mothers should certainly be familiar with the laws of nature; above everything the instructions should be given with a delicate appreciation of the laws of modesty, and of the necessity for approaching sex subject entirely from a scientific view. The instructions given herein applies equally to school dresses and to party dresses. Let mothers see that the girls are willing to adopt them. Superintendent Bennion's statement follows: DRESS RULES ANNOUNCED. "In these days of economic and social unrest, America may properly look to her schools as a sobering and stabilizing agency, All too frequently fashions of the ballroom and the vaudeville EDITORIAL 541 stage are carried over into our institutions of learning so as to interfere with scholastic ideals for which our schools should stand, as well as to impose a burden upon the parents who are called upon to finance their children in getting an education. "Party dresses with their accompaniment of extreme hairdress, rouge, lipstick, etc., ought certainly to be wholly out of place in a high school where students, simply attired, ought in modesty to give themselves to that study which will develop most fully the talents that are theirs. "Tn an effort to establish in our schools standards of simplicity, economy, and good sense, the Church schools, beginning in September, 1921, will ask all girls attending to observe the following regulations: "Extremely thin material such as chiffon and georgette crepe will be barred, as will open loose sweaters, lace stockings and hosettes. The schools do not deem it advisable to specify a regulation uniform, but will approve dresses and suits made modestly and simply. In doubtful cases the school matron will be the judge of the suitability of the costume in question. "Because of the expense involved, the schools discourage the wearing by girls of silk stockings. The recommendation applies to the boys with equal force in the matter of silk shirts and silk socks." "As a safeguard to health and normal development, the schools advise girls to wear walking shoes, either high or low, rather than French heeled shoes and slippers." "This announcement is not made," Supt. Bennion said, "in any sense of an effort to curb individuality. In fact we really object to the idea of a school uniform. We do not in the least wish to prescribe what the students shall do in the matter but rather we want to establish a condition in regard to dress so that everybody will be on an equal footing in regard to dress and feel comfortable in regard to style. If there is anything arbitrary in the matter we are merely substituting for the arbitrariness of fashion, the arbitrariness of correct school costume. "While full appreciation is expressed of the charming beauty of a woman's hair, especially as typified in the school girl's waving locks, the present vogue of much marceled, little combed, little cared for hair on a growing miss is much lamented, aside from the fact of the needless expense of maintaining such styles of head dress. While no drastic note of dictation is taken by the school heads, it is believed that simpler, more healthful modes of headdress will by no means debar any girl of her full right to all the girlish beauty nature has given her. It is believed the entire matter will meet with the hearty appreciation not only of the girls themselves but also of their parents. Guide Lessons for November LESSSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in November) TITHING Dp | Tithing is a system of producing revenue which may be secular or ecclesiastical. The word implies a tenth, or a tithe, and consists, as a rule, of a gift or donation of! One-tenth of a per- 'son's property or that which he produces.. All the ancient people, both Pagan' and Hebrew has some form f religious tax which was levied by a ruler upon his subjects. Among the Pagans a tenth of the spoils of war was dedicated to the gods. Babylonia, Assyria, Egypt, China, Greece and Rome, each had a system of taxation levying one-tenth from their subjects. In the Mohammedan law it is sometimes mentioned as a twentieth or a fortieth. All the Hebrew kings required a tithe of the grainfield, vineyards and flocks, (See I Samuel, 8:15-19.) In the Book of Deuteronomy, the Hebrew people were taught in detail how the tithes should be collected and consumed and the quantity. Abraham paid tithes to Melchizedek, the king and high-priest of Salem which city was later called Jerusalem. Jacob (Genesis 28:22) vows of his own free will to pay a tithe just as the Arabs used to vow and deliver the tithe of the increase of their flocks. We are told in Deuteronomy (14:28 and in 24:12) how the tithes of the Hebrew people were to be stored and how to be spent in caring for the poor. The tribe of Levi was selected to lead the Levitical priesthood. Aaron was at the head of that priesthood and was known as a high priest. In the division of the Land of Promise no provision was made for a location for the tribe of Levi, but some few cities were set apart for them. They were allotted a living out of the tithes of the people. It may be thought that the priests were fortunate, but it should be remembered that no priest was permitted to own his own home. He was to devote his life in the service of the Lord in his turn, in the temple or tabernacle. In the days of Ezra and Nehemiah great stress was laid GUIDE LESSONS 543 upon the provision for the support of the priests and Levites. There were two tithes paid by each Jewish citizen. The following is from the Bible Dictionary: The first consisted of one-tenth of the produce of his fields, trees, flocks and herds, to be given to God as the sovereign Proprietor of all things and as the King of the Jews, (Lev. 27:30-31; I Sam. 8:15-17) The proceeds of this tax were devoted to the maintenance of the Levites in their respective cities. (Num. 18:21-24.) A person might pay this tax in money, adding one-fifth to its estimated value. The Levites paid a tenth part of what they received to the priests. (Num. 18:26-28.) The second tithe required of each land-holder was one-tenth of the nine parts of his produce remaining after the Ist tithe, to be expended at the tabernacle or temple in entertaining the Levites, his own family, etc., changing it first into money, if on account of remoteness he chose to do so, (Deut. 12:17-19; 22-29; 22-27, Every third year a special provision was made for the poor either out of this second tithe or in addition to it, Deut. 14:28-29; 26:12-15, These tithes were not burdensome; but the pious Israelite found himself the richer for their payment, though it does not seem to have been enforced by any legal penalties. See the promise to the obedient in Deut. 28:1-13. The system of tithes was renewed both before and after the captivity, 2nd Chr. 31:5, 6, 12; Neh. 10:37, 38; 12 44; 13:5, 12; but they were not always regularly paid, and hence the divine blessing was withheld, Mal, 3:8-12. At a fater period the tithe was apparently divided into three portions, one of which was given to the. Priests and Levites one to the temple storehouse, and one to the needy at Jerusalem. The Pharisees were scrupulously exemplary in paying their tithes, but neglected the more important duties of love to God and man, Matt. 23:23. 2 The principle of the ancient tithes, namely, that ministers of the gospel and objects of benevolence should be provided for by the whole people of God, according to their means, is fully recognized in Scripture as applicable to the followers of Christ. He sent his servants forth two and two, without provision or purse, to receive their support from the people, since "the laborer is worthy of his hire." Matt. 10:9-14; Luke 10:4-8-16. Paul also reasons in the same way, Ist Cor. 9:13-14; Gal. 6:6. For purposes of piety and beneficence he directed the Corinthians, and virtually all Christians, to lay aside from their income on the first day of the week as the Lord had prospered them, I Cor. 16:2. There is no, reason to doubt that the early Christians gave more freely of their substance than did the ancient Jews. Acts 4:34-37; 2nd Cor. 8:1-4. Since the days of the early Christian churches tithes have been paid and enjoined by, ecclesiastical courts. In course of time the principle of paying tithes was extended beyond its original scope by the Catholic church, Tithes at that time became interchangeable to laymen and therefore were salable property. In England there is a permanent and general system of tithes to support the authorized or established Episcopal church, and an elaborate system of laws have grown out of this custom. This English tithe is quite distinct from the civil taxes and is used for the support of the authorized church. In fact tithing was practiced by the Saxons and Normans. The old Anglo Saxons 544 'RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE called it a "frank pledge." "Most of the protestant churches that grew out of Luther's Reformation have no regular system of tithing and many different methods have been evolved for collecting funds for the support of their churches, salary of the priests and other expenses. The passing of the plate during church service is a common form of collecting money; pews and seats are sold at rentals, according to their desirable location. Where a church is located in a prosperous district, the members are expected to contribute liberally. If the church is located in a poor district, their expenses are necessarily lessened according to the situation of the people who compose that church. Some of the modern churches have a budget and committees are appointed to assess members to sustain and take care of pastoral expenses. Then there are other collections, such as missionary funds, traveling funds. These committees meet annually and apportion the expense for the maintenance of the church, such as house rent, traveling expenses, pastor's salary and then levy corresponding assessments on the congregation. The supervising officers of these churches, such as bishops and superintendents, have a claim upon the budget and provision is made for their maintenance. The Protestant churches have not been able to establish the principle of tithing. In recent years a few have endeavored to get the members of their churches to give one-tenth of their income, so much of which should be given to the maintenance of the church, and the tithepayer may distribute his own tithing as his conscience may dictate. As the salaries of all officers in many of the sectarian churches down to deacons, must be paid, including singers, organist and choristers, the maintenance of a sectarian church becomes quite a tax. The value of paying tithing has a moral aspect. If a certain portion of a man's income is given by him for religious and philanthropic purposes, the effect upon him is far more beneficial than it is upon others. Human nature is naturally selfish and easily becomes sordid. Every avenue which leads outwards from a man's heart after satisfying the needs of his family enlarges his vision and mellows his soul. The spirit of the Christ is always the spirit of love, gift-giving and unselfsh service to others. "It is better to give than to receive," said the Savior, because giving in the right spirit ennobles, while taking may canker and corrode those who continually receive. The beneficial result of giving for religious purposes applies, first to the individual, second to the