[Vol34 | February 1947 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting Teachers' Messages: Thirst for Knowledge President Amy Brown Lyman]
Sister  Rose  B.  Astle  is  president  of  the  South  Los  Angeles  Stake  Relief  Society. 
The  stake  achieved  126  per  cent  as  their  record  on  the  Magazine  honor  roll  for  1945.

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
123 
ENSIGN  STAKE,  SALT  LAKE  CITY  (UTAH) 
SINGING  MOTHERS  ASSEMBLED  FOR  QUARTERLY  CONFERENCE 
Front  row:  extreme  left,  Margaret  Merrill,  organist;  seventh  from  left,  Lucile  B. 
Swenson,  chorister. 
Second  row:  extreme  left,  Alice  B.  Steinicke,  President,  Ensign  Stake  Relief  Society; 
third  from  left,  Lydia  Smith,  soloist;  tenth  from  left,  Jean  Wessman,  assistant  organist. 
Third  row:  ninth  from  left,  Hilda  Lance,  member,  Ensign  Stake  Relief  Society- 
Board. 
These  Singing  Mothers  practice  weekly,  and  the  rehearsals  are  opened  and  closed 
with  prayer.    A  most  beautiful  spirit  of  co-operation  and  enthusiasm  prevails. 
MOAPA  STAKE  (NEVADA),  LAS  VEGAS  SECOND  WARD, 
WELFARE  MEETING,  AUGUST  14,  1946 
Sister  Lila  Leavitt,  ward  president,  at  left  center,  holding  a  corner  of  the  rug;  Stake 
President  Mae  Larson,  in  the  white  dress,  standing  beside  Sister  Leavitt. 
This  meeting  featured  a  handwork  display,  as  shown  in  the  picture,  and  a  special 
program.     Refreshments  were  served.

LESSON 
DEPARTMENT 
cJheoiogy— Church  History 
Lesson  24— The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  Over  a  Century  Old 
Elder  H.  Wayne  Driggs 
For  Tuesday,  May  6,  1947 
Objective:  To  review  in  brief  the  ushering  in  of  the  last  and  greatest  dispensation — the 
fulness  of  times. 
T^HE  first  hundred  years  of  the 
Church,  again  established  upon 
the  earth,  have  marked  the  world 
with  new  light.  Greater  progress 
than  has  ever  been  known  to  man 
has  come  within  the  years  since  1830. 
Blessings— material,  intellectual,  and 
spiritual,  are  here  now  for  all  God's 
children.  As  a  Church,  we  lay  claim 
to  all  of  these  advancements  because 
inspiration  has  come  to  all  from  him 
who  knows  all  truth.  We  know  that 
it  is  by  no  mere  chance  that  so  great 
have  been  the  strides  in  science, 
education,  and  culture  for  all  living. 
Did  not  the  Lord  himself  promise  a 
restoration  of  all  things,  when  he 
spoke  the  words  recorded  in  the 
Old  Testament,  "I  will  pour  out  my 
spirit  upon  all  flesh"  (Joel  2:28)? 
Before  we  consider  some  of  the 
important  events  studied  during  our 
Church  history  course  these  past 
three  years,  let  us,  in  part  at  least, 
look  at  the  material  gains  that  are 
now  a  part  of  everyday  living,  which 
were  unthought  of  in  1830. 
Standards  of  living  today  have 
made  a  phenomenal  advancement 
during  the  past  century.  The  writer 
remembers  but  a  few  years  ago  an 
Page  124 
experience  at  the  New  York 
World's  Fair.  In  the  electrical 
building,  the  designers  of  that  ex- 
hibit had  re-created  a  street  of  the 
nineties.  Shops  and  stores,  board- 
walks and  a  cobble  road,  first  met 
the  eye.  Then,  there  were  unsightly 
telephone  poles  with  their  glass  in- 
sulators. Dim  lights  cast  a  yellow 
glow  from  the  high  crossbars,  and 
from  the  store  windows.  One  fairly 
groped  along  the  street.  And  this 
was  a  representation  of  the  new  elec- 
trical age,  a  great  advance  over  the 
candle  and  firelight  period  of  the 
1830's! 
One  walked  along  this  world  of 
yesterday  to  turn  the  corner  into  to- 
day's avenue  of  light.  It  was  like 
walking  from  night  into  day.  A  mod- 
ern boulevard  with  brilliant  lights 
greeted  each  visitor  who  gazed  into 
up-to-date  store  windows.  Every- 
where there  was  brightness  and  life. 
What  a  contrast,  and  in  such  sharp 
relief,  the  old  and  the  new  in  im- 
mediate relation  to  one  another! 
Somehow,  we  have  slipped  grad- 
ually into  our  modern  world,  and  in 
so  doing,  have  forgotten  how  great 
the  change  has  been.    According  to

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  125 
one  authority,  the  advance  in    the  Christ,  point  to  the  marvelous  ad- 
richness  of  personal  life,  so  far  as  ma-  vancement  of  this  age.  Assuredly— 
terial  conveniences   are    concerned,  T,                   ,     .      ^,      ,    , 
,                          .i              j  lhe   morning    breaks,    the   shadows   flee; 
has  risen  one  thousand  per  cent.  Lo!  Zion>s  standard  is  unfuried. 
In    the    field    of    medicine    and  The  dawning  of  a  brighter  day 
surgery,  within  the  past  one  hundred  Majestic  rises  on  the  world, 
years,   three  of  the  greatest  discov-  The  clouds  of  error  disappear 
eries  of  all   time  have   been   made:  Before  the  rays  of  true  divine; 
anaesthesia;  the  germ  theory  of  dis-  T1V;  §W  ,bursting  from  afar 
ease;    and   antisepsis.     These   have  Wl^  o  er  the  nations  soon  will  shine, 
assuaged    suffering    and    prolonged  And  now,  to  touch  again  the  high 
life.  lights  of  the  century  past,  in  so  far 
One  but  needs  to  dwell  for  a  mo-  as  its  narrative  is  connected  with  the 
ment  on  the  thought  of  the  atomic  history  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
age  into  which  the  recent  world  war  of  Latter-day  Saints,  the  Church 
has  plunged  us.  Truly,  if  ever,  that  came  again  with  the  divine  mis- 
Christ's  greatest  tenet— "Love  one  sion  to  elevate,  to  build  up,  to  regen- 
another"  must  now  become  the  erate.  It  has  taught  again  the  age- 
greatest  of  forces  in  human  life  if  less  truths  of  man's  correct  relation- 
we,  as  a  world  of  human  beings,  are  ship  to  his  Creator,  his  true  purpose 
to  live  together.  Yes,  God  has  in  life,  and  the  way  he  should  go  if 
poured  out  his  spirit  upon  all  flesh,  he  is  to  gain  ultimate  exaltation  in 
but  one  wonders  if  this,  the  begin-  his  Father's  kingdom, 
ning  of  all  good  gifts,  can  find  a  Four  things  stand  out:  a  vision; 
place  in  a  world  where  God  also  has  a  new  witness;  authority;  and  Christ's 
given  man  his  free  agency.  Church.    Upon  these  cornerstones, 
And  what  are  the  claims  of  the  now  rests  the  firm  foundation    of 
Church  in  this  age  of  wonders?  We  God's  modern  work  and  a  wonder, 
say  that  all  great  discoveries    have 
come  because  God  has  willed  them.  The  First  Vision  of  the 
He  is  the  author  of  all  truth,  his  is  Father  and  the  Son 
the  spirit  that  lightens  every  man  Joseph  Smith  was  the  instrument, 
that  comes  into  the  world.    These  and  1820  was  the  year.  God  began 
things  have  come  to  mankind  as  but  then,  for  the  last  time,  his  work  of 
another  manifestation  of  the  Lord's  the  fulness  of  salvation  among  men. 
will  to  bless  his  children,  and  with  And,    through   the   efforts   of   this 
their  coming,  too,  he  has  fulfilled  humble  boy,  the  world  has  come,  as 
the  greater  promise— that  of  restor-  of  old,  to  know  of  eternal  life, 
ing  the  gospel  of    the    Redeemer.  Small  wonder  that  Joseph  never 
Such  was  the  mission  of  the  first  forgot  that  he  had  "seen  a  light,  and 
vision  of  the  Father,  in  company  in  the  midst  of  that  light  .  .  .  two 
with  the  Son,  to  Joseph  Smith.  The  Personages,"  and  they  did,  in  reality, 
words,  "This  is  my  beloved  son,  hear  speak  to  him.    And  though  he  was 
him,"  have  rung  through  these  hun-  to  be  persecuted  all  the  days  of  his 
dred  years,  and  the  world  has  heard  life  for  so  declaring,  yet  he  knew,  and 
him  as  never  before,  in  evidence  of  dared  not  deny,  neither  would  deny, 
which,  we  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  that  he  had  seen  a  vision.