[Vol34 | February 1947 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Bishop Thorpe B. McKay]

Bishop Thorpe B. Isaacson Appointed to Presiding Bishopric Elder Thomas E. Robinson, M. D. First Counselor, Yale Ward Bishopric, Salt Lake City, Utah THE THORPE B. ISAACSON FAMILY: Bishop Thorpe B. Isaacson, Lula Jones Isaacson; Joyce Isaacson Tribe; (Inset) BROTHER Thorpe B. Isaacson, who was appointed Second Counselor in the Presiding Bishopric, December 14, 1946, to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Brother Marvin O. Ashton, was born September 6, 1898 in Ephraim, Utah, the son of Martin Isaacson and Mary Jemima Beal Isaacson. Bom of goodly parents, he also can be justly proud of others of his progenitors. His grandfather, Peter Isaacson, was the only member of Page 86 his family to join the Church in Denmark. He crossed the plains with the pioneers in 1855, and was soon sent by the Church authorities to help colonize Arizona. He later did much of the fine carpentry work on the Manti Temple, and lived in Ephraim for many years. He served the Church and the community faithfully until his death at the age of ninety-two. Henry Beal, grandfather on his mother's side, was president of BISHOP THORPE B. ISAACSON Sanpete Stake for many years.
While serving in this capacity, he took a very active part in the founding of Snow College. Brother Isaacson is a graduate of Snow College. He attended the Brigham Young University, the Utah State Agricultural College, and the University of California. He has had seventeen years of teaching and coaching experience with the youth of Utah and Idaho. He is more than favorably known among these many thousands of young people. A great athlete himself, he has inspired many boys to self-improvement.. He has a very active and alert interest in all sports, and in the boys who play them. Brother Isaacson married Lula Maughan Jones of Wellsville on June 16, 1920, in the Salt Lake Temple.
They had three children, two of whom are living at the present time: Joyce Isaacson 'Tribe, twenty-three, the wife of Royal L. Tribe; and Richard A.~ Isaacson, twenty, now laboring in the New England Mission.
Finer children no parents could want. Brother Isaacson has been outstanding in his business achievements. At the time of his new appointment, he was general agent for Lincoln National Life Insurance Company in Utah, Idaho, and Nevada. He was named the most outstanding insurance man for that company in 1944. He has had a fine experience in the Church. He was president of the elders' quorum in the Yale Ward before being called into the bishopric. In September 1941, Brother Isaacson was chosen by Bishop A. G.
Olafson of Yale Ward to be his 87 first counselor.
While serving in this capacity, he had charge of the teachers' quorum, and for five years this quorum led the stake. He is a fine "'boys' man." He inspires boys because he knows their problems and can place himself easily and naturally on their level. Brother Isaacson is a natural leader of men; he places responsibility well; and he has the capacity to inspire men to discharge well their responsibilities. He has the ability to discern problems quickly and to make rapid disposition of them.
These attributes will aid him, materially, in the discharge of his new responsibilities where great wisdom must be associated with great dispatch in handling so many of the temporal affairs of the Church.
Brother and Sister Isaacson have also drunk deeply of one of the greatest of spiritual experiences.
They lost their first child in infancy.
Their only son was stricken with poliomyelitis and hovered close to death for several days. In this time of deep tribulation, came, perhaps, the deepest spiritual experience for Brother and Sister Isaacson.
They came to know God, and God _ recognized their supplication in behalf of their son.
Ever since, there has existed a closeness between this family and God that will only be further enriched by the experiences which will be forthcoming in Brother Isaacson's new calling. He will be respected for his ability, as well as for his deep concern for the welfare of his country and of his fellowmen, generally.