[Vol34 | February 1947 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Please renew once in order not to miss the next number. Fill in this coupon and hand to ward Magazine representative or mail with remittance to Relief Society Magazine, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Disregard this notice if subscription has already been renewed]
once  again,  for  the  world— the  Sav- 
ior's gospel,  with  its  sweet  and  pre- 
cious truths  to  enlighten  the  mind 
and  quicken  the  hearts  of  all  who 
hunger  after  righteousness.  For  God 
lias  said  that  in  the  mouths  of  two 
or  more  witnesses  shall  all  truth  be 
established.  Now,  the  world  has 
another  record  to  tell  of  Christ's 
message— in  addition  to  the  Bible. 
Authority  From  on  High- 
John  the  Baptist  and  the  Holy 
Priesthood 
It  was  the  15th  of  May,  1829. 
There,  in  the  brightness  of  the  warm 
spring  sunbeams  that  streamed  down 
through  the  trees,  two  young  men 
knelt,    Joseph    Smith    and    Oliver 
Cowdery,  and  spoke  their  wishes  to 
God.  Presently,  in  a  cloud  of  light 
that  exceeded  the  brilliance  of  that 
beautiful  day,  there  stood  beside 
them  a  heavenly  messenger.  Placing 
his  hands  upon  their  bowed  heads, 
he  spoke: 
Upon  you  my  fellow  servants,  in  the  name 
of  Messiah  I  confer  the  Priesthood  of 
Aaron,  which  holds  the  keys  of  the  min- 
istering of  angels,  and  of  the  gospel  of 
repentance,  and  of  baptism  by  immersion 
for  the  remission  of  sins;  and  this  shall 
never  be  taken  again  from  the  earth,  until 
the  sons  of  Levi  do  offer  again  an  offer- 
ing unto  the  Lord  in  righteousness  (Doc. 
and  Cov.  Sec.  13). 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
Again  Organized 
In  the  month  of  April,  and  in  the 
year  1830,  the  following  revelation 
came  through  Joseph  the  Prophet: 
The  rise  of  the  Church  of  Christ  in 
these  last  days,  being  one  thousand  eight 
hundred  and  thirty  years  since  the  coming 
of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  in  the 
flesh,  it  being  regularly  organized  and 
established  agreeable  to  the  laws  of  our 
country,  by  the  will  and  commandments 
of  God,  in  the  fourth  month,  and  on  the 
sixth  day  of  the  month  which  is  called 
April — Which  commandments  were  given 
to  Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  who  was  called  of 
God,  and  ordained  an  apostle  of  Jesus 
Christ,  to  be  the  first  elder  of  this 
Church  .  .  .  And  this  according  to  the 
grace  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ, 
to  whom  be  all  glory,  both  now  and  for- 
ever. Amen  (Doc.  and  Cov.  20:  1,  2,  4). 
What  are  the  future  years  and  the 
blessings  for  the  children  of  men? 
Time  alone  can  tell,  but  of  this  we 
may  be  sure,  God  has  said  that  heav- 
en and  earth  shall  pass  away,  but 
that  his  word  shall  not  pass  away. 
It  is  upon  his  word  that  we  rely. 
That  word  promises  a  great  day!  To 
speed  its  arrival,  his  Church,  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  with  all  its  blessings  for

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
127 
mankind,  is  here— and  here  to  stay 
(Dan.  2:44).  Its  mission  is  clear, 
its  destiny  glorious.  God  be  praised! 
Suggestions  for  Active  Reading  and 
Discussion 
At  the  conclusion  of  any  long  period  of 
work  and  study,  one  often  feels  like  sing- 
ing. Certainly,  in  the  Songs  of  Zion,  one 
may  find  excellent  voicing  of  the  glories 
of  the  restored  gospel.  Spend  this  discus- 
sion period  studying,  and  singing,  if  you 
like,  the  words  of  these  songs  that  best 
express  the  restoration  of  the  fulness  of 
times.  Here  are  a  few  suggestions  in  the 
form  of  song  titles: 
"The  Morning  Breaks,  the  Shadows 
Flee" 
"An  Angel  from  on  High" 
"Praise  to  the  Man" 
"For  the  Strength  of  the  Hills" 
"The  Spirit  of  God  Like  a  Fire" 
"In  Our  Lovely  Deseret" 
"Zion  Stands  with  Hills  Surrounded" 
"Our  Mountain  Home  So  Dear" 
"Now  Let  Us  Rejoice" 
"The  Day  Dawn  is  Breaking" 
"O  Ye  Mountains  High" 
"One  Hundred  Years" 
Have  each  class  member  come  prepared 
to  read  and  comment  on  a  favorite  pas- 
sage of  scripture  from  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants. 
Visiting  cJeachers'   1 1  lessages— Our  Pioneer 
Heritage 
Lesson  8— Thirst  for  Knowledge 
President  Amy  Brown  Lyman 
For  Tuesday,  May  6,  1947 
Objective:  To  inspire  an  appreciation  in  us  of  the  pioneer  thirst  for  knowledge,  that  urge 
to  progress,  that  search  for  ultimate  perfection. 
VyHEN  Joseph  Smith  made  the 
statements:  'The  glory  of  God 
is  intelligence"  and  "A  man  is  saved 
no  faster  than  he  gains  knowledge," 
he  set  up  high  ideals  for  education 
in  the  Church. 
In  a  recent  report  by  the  director 
of  economic  and  business  research 
of  the  University  of  Utah,  we  learn 
that  Utah  today  leads  the  United 
States  in  education  per  capita.  This 
is  not  only  a  tribute  to  the  State  it- 
self, but  is  also  a  tribute  to  the  found- 
ers of  the  State,  who  opened  a  day 
school  three  months  after  their  ar- 
rival in  the  Valley  in  1847,  and 
established  a  university  three  years 
later. 
Going  back  to  the  early  days  of 
the  Church,  we  find  that  the 
"School  of  the  Prophets"  was  estab- 
lished in  Kirtland,  and  the  ''School 
of  Elders"  in  Nauvoo,  for  spiritual 
culture,  and  that  other  schools,  in- 
cluding the  University  of  Nauvoo, 
were  established  for  secular  educa- 
tion. And,  after  leaving  Nauvoo, 
schools  were  conducted  by  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  in  the  several  tem- 
porary settlements  on  the  way  to 
Utah.  Emmeline  B.  Wells  taught 
such  a  school  at  Winter  Quarters  in 
1846-47.  Even  on  the  plains,  the 
emigrants  taught  their  children  to 
read,  write,  and  spell. 
After  the  arrival  in  the  Valley,  and 
while  the  pioneers  were  clearing 
their  land,  planting  crops,  and  build-

128 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1947 
ing  homes,  they  found  time  to  pro- 
vide for  the  education  of  their  chil- 
dren by  establishing  schools.  In  fact, 
one  of  the  first  activities  in  every