[Vol34 | February 1947 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Where Trails Run]
Here bloom again The lilac and the cyclamen; Valentines now fill my room With the summer's lost perfume. Where Trails Run Out Anna Prince Redd [The incidents of this story are true, and the characters authentic. The information has been carefully gleaned from diaries, journals, and personal interviews.—Ed.
Chapter 1 SHIVERING in the thin daylight air, Captain Silas S.
Smith put on his coat, buttoned it up to his bearded chin, and stepped over the left front wheel of his wagon to the _ frost-covered ground.
With his feet propped, alternately, on the wagon tongue, he tied the buckskin laces of his shoes; then, straightening his long frame, he recovered his Stetson hat from beneath the wagon seat and took a first day's inventory of the camp. The twelve circled wagons of the San Juan Mission Exploring Company were intact, bows solid, covers stretched tight and fastened to the wagon beds. He looked over the camp ground—a grassy bend on the west bank of the Sevier River, not far from the town of Panguitch— and counted, by twos and tens, the eighty horses hobbled or staked between the river and the circled wagons. He took note of the two guards, erect before their fire. He threw a rock to bestir the herd of thirty cows bedded within the circle.
Then he gathered his breath and gave a long summoning cry that was as clear Fige." Anna Prince Redd, is well known to our readers. Row's Cup" was published during 1943 and of many poems, among them "No Beauty Is which won first prize in the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest in 1938. In 1940, she was the winner of the narrative division of the annual poetry contest sponsored by the Utah Federation of Women's Clubs. The same year, she placed second in a story contest conducted by the Utah Magazine, with her contribution "The Devil's For four years, Mrs.
Redd was editor of a daily column in the Provo She also conducted the radio column Utah Verse, over KOVO, for one year. For two years, she was featured in a column in Speech Magazine, Chicago, called "Poetry For Speech Practice." She has taught classes in poetry and short story technique, and was one of the editors of the second volume of Utah Sings. Two of her serials "The Find-Out Boy" and "Two-penny Tim," published in The Children's Friend, are soon to appear in book form. Mrs.
Redd is a member of the League of Utah Writers, The American Pen Women, The Sonneteers, and other literary organizations.
Born in Panguitch, Utah, she was educated at the Branch Agricultural College, at Brigham Young University, and the University of Utah. Her husband James M. Redd, formerly of Monticello, Utah, has been of great assistance to Anna in her literary work, particularly in her research on the San Juan country. The Redds are the parents of four children, two sons and two daughters.
Their son James filled a mission in Texas, and for two years was attached to the Allied Military Government overseas. In addition to her literary work, her teaching, and many other activities, Mrs.
Redd has for years been a literature class leader in Relief Society, and a teacher in Sunday School and the Mutual Improvement Association. Herald, which featured local writers. Her serial '"Tomor- 1944. She is the author Page
94 WHERE TRAILS RUN OUT and cold as the morning itself. It rose, fell, then leveled. Off, breaking into a thousand splinters that hit the hills to the east, ricocheted to the west, and then to the north, dying of their own rivalry. The company of twenty-four young men and two families awoke, shook itself, and yawned, then began shouting jovially. "Mrs. Harriman!" Parley Butt called, slapping the canvas of the wagon next to his. "If you'll hand down those tenderfoot pioneers of yours, we'll toughen 'em up a bit. Bayles, here, has the ice all cracked from the top of the water buckets, just right for a morning face wash." Elizabeth Harriman threw back the flaps of her wagon and beamed at the young scouts. She was as starched and clean as though she had just left her own bedroom. Her brown hair was knotted in a soft coil at the nape. Of her neck; her eyes sparkled in the early light. "Yours, and welcome!" she laughed, shoving her two protesting boys into their upstretched arms. "I hope you survive the encounter!" "Bayles and Butt, Boy Washers, incorporated," Hans Bayles wheezed, collecting the flailing arms and legs of his particular charge. "Hey, Bub," he admonished, "you're not a cub bear climbing a tree!" "Our fee," Parley chuckled, equally involved, "is a stack of those Dutch-oven biscuits of yours, Sister Harriman." "There you are, young fella," Hans said, dumping his boy on the wagon tongue. "Now, sit still and nice till we get the rest of our clients done." 95
From the next wagon, Mary Davis, who was the only other woman in the camp, looked on with laughter on her golden face. "We'll be at your wagon in exactly three minutes, Sister Davis," Parley said, and deposited his charge next to the boy Hans had set on the wagon tongue. "Breakfast smells like it's nearly ready, boys. You be good, and we'll let you ride to the table on our shoulders!" he promised them.
There was a duet of agreement from the delighted boys. "Um-m-m.
Smells good," they said, and sat obediently still, waiting for the promised ride.
Having missed none of its good-natured activity, Captain Silas S. Smith, the president of the company, directed and approved, as each man went to his assigned work.
Then he called the company to order. The chorister led in the singing of a hymn, and the chaplain offered the morning prayer, concluding with a blessing on the food.
Seated in groups around small, warming fires, fussed over by the two motherly young women, the men had their meal, then were out after their teams, harnessing them and hitching them to the wagons, reloading supplies and bedding. The Davis and Harriman families were to stay in San Juan; their wagons groaned with their belongings. The other members of the company were to stay in the newly located area only long enough to help the two families get settled, and were then to return to Southern Utah to help bring on the main company, which was to follow.
Their wagons were loaded with tools, blasting materials, implements, and grain for planting. LIKE others of the company, James L.
Davis and Harrison H.
Harriman drove four-horse outfits.
Their wives drove the only single teams.
Each of the twenty-six men of the company had his special brand of loyalty, curiosity, and love of adventure. Not one but had been tested in other missions.
Young as they were, averaging in age but twenty-three years, they were still seasoned explorers and trail blazers. But, always before, they had known where they were going and, in general, what advantages or difficulties to expect. Now, their mission was to "hunt up" the place first, and explore it afterward. 'Taking the call of their Church literally, through the word of President John Taylor, they were to scout a route and build a road into San Juan County, an almost unknown wilderness of sand and stone, and there, to gain the confidence of the Ute and Navajo Indians, and cultivate their friendship, winning them to ways of peace and the gospel, as taught by the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The call was pointed and brief: They were to explore and settle the almost uninhabitable region along the San Juan River in Southeastern Utah.
They were to note the climate, the vegetation, the water sources, and the depth and quality of the soil.
They were to plant crops and leave them to be harvested by a larger company that should follow them to San Juan in the fall.
Second only to their own subsistence, was the task of making peace with the Indians, who for years had made war upon the Southern Utah settlers, pillaging and plundering at will.
Through their own, and the Catholic missionaries, they had gleaned the little information they had about - the place and, from jubilant or dubious speculation, it had come to be considered the most mysterious, the most fantastic country imaginable. A few wandering trappers had reported it to be weirdly beautiful, rich in gold and silver, furs and fish.
Sketchy and inaccurate as these accounts were, they were sufficient to fire the blood and the imagination of men who lived by their courage; men who placed a call from their Church above their own fortunes or their lives. Now, with a zest as keen as that of the April air, on the third day of their adventurous journey, in the year 1879, they re-loaded their cumbersome wagons, rounded up their teams and stock, and took to the road again, singing and jesting as they went. But the two women, used as they were to pioneering, strangers to each other until now, had no delusions as to the dangers and difficulties of the mission, and they had talked of little else in the three days of slow travel since they had left their homes in Parowan. Now, as their light wagons creaked along behind the heavily loaded ones of their husbands, they had time to think of the things they were leaving behind; of the friends and relatives they would probably never see again; of the comforts they had been able to achieve in the few years since they had been settled in Southern Utah.
Against this unfriendly country, to which they were going, they weighed the joys of the things they were leaving behind.
