[Vol34 | February 1947 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Congratulations to]
Congratulations  to  Lr resident  ^slmu    lurown  JLuman 
on   (Tier  Ujirthdau — clehruaru  jth 
"DELIEF  Society  women  everywhere  are  happy  to  remember  at  this  time 
the  birthday  of  Sister  Amy  Brown  Lyman,  who  served  for  many  years 
as  a  Board  member,  as  an  executive  officer,  and  as  president  of  the  Society. 
Sister  Lyman's  work  among  women,  particularly  in  the  fields  of  social 
service  and  educational  and  cultural  development,  has  been  of  great  service 
to  the  Church.  Her  lessons  on  visiting  teaching,  and  her  interesting  pioneer 
stories,  currently  featured  in  The  Relief  Society  Magazine,  are  sources  of 
inspiration  that  help  Latter-day  Saint  women  to  realize  the  vital  strength  of 
their  heritage  and  the  importance  of  their  responsibilities. 
Happy  birthday  to  you,  Sister  Lyman,  and  our  gratitude  for  the  example 
of  effort  and  accomplishment  that  you  have  given  us.  May  your  continued 
service  to  women  bring  you  much  joy  and  satisfaction. 
Page  109

February  Table  Decorations 
Elizabeth  Williamson 
PERHAPS  you  are  now  enjoy- 
ing narcissi,  tulips,  hyacinths, 
and  other  bulbs  you  had  the 
foresight  to  plant  early  last  fall.  But, 
if  you  are  like  most  of  us,  who  pro- 
crastinate, you  are  looking  about  for 
material  with  which  to  make  table 
decorations  and  flower  arrange- 
ments. This  is  the  time  of  year 
when  there  are  few  cut  flowers,  so 
it  is  necessary  to  look  for  substitutes. 
Here  are  a  few,  which  fall  into  three 
classes : 
Dried  Materials 
Branches,  pods,  leaves,  grasses,  gourds, 
dried  flowers. 
These  can  be  arranged  attractively  with 
figurines,  or  available  fresh  flowers. 
Fruits  and  Vegetables 
Pineapples,  apples,  pears,  lemons,  red 
peppers,  eggplants,  squash,  cucumbers, 
artichokes. 
These  look  well  in  wooden  bowls  or 
on  copper  trays. 
Cacti  and  Succulents 
These  can  be  arranged  into  charming 
groups,  as  miniature  gardens,  with  frag- 
ments of  rocks,  driftwood,  shells,  or  fig- 
ures. 
Flower  arrangement  is  one  of 
the  oldest  arts.  The  Oriental  flower 
arrangements  are  symbolic,  cere- 
monial, and  religious.  Although  they 
are  beautiful  in  composition  and 
color,  it  is  not  necessary  nor  rele- 
vant for  us  to  make  a  study  of  them 
to  achieve  a  successful  or  harmoni- 
ous flower  arrangement.  If  we  fol- 
low a  few  basic  rules,  it  is  easy  to 
make  a  pleasing  and  attractive  ar- 
rangement. 
Colors  in  nature  are  harmonious. 
However,  you  may  use  a  warm  color 
group  for  cold  days,  combining  reds, 
yellows,  oranges,  and  browns,  and  a 
cool  color  group  for  warm  days,  us- 
ing blue,  purple,  lavender,  white  and 
green.  Color  can  do  much  to  make 
a  room  cheerful,  depressing,  formal, 
or  informal. 
fe ^t 
HORIZONTAL 
Page  110

FEBRUARY  TABLE  DECORATIONS 
111 
Curving  lines  possess  more  beauty 
than  straight  lines.  A  vertical  or 
horizontal  line  is  more  attractive  if 
it  is  broken.  Radiating  lines  in  com- 
position may  be  based  on  a  triangle 
turned  in  different  positions. 
Keep  the  size  of  your  arrange- 
ments suitable  to  the  surroundings. 
If  your  house  is  large,  the  flower 
groups    may   be   sophisticated   and 
formal.  If  your  house  is  small,  sim- 
plify your  arrangements,  and  make 
them  informal. 
It  is  impossible  to  rival  nature,  so 
do  not  use  too  many  flowers  in  one 
arrangement.  Remember,  whether 
large  01  small,  to  keep  your  decora- 
tive designs  simple. 
TOLD  AT  SUNSET 
Grace  Zenor  Pratt 
If  I  might  bring  to  skies  that  now  are  gray 
The  sunset  glow  that  charmed  me  late  today, 
Put  back  the  glowing  crimson,  saffron,  blue  and  gold — 
Recapture  that  lost  beauty,  and  could  hold 
The  spell  of  those  last  moments  and  the  thrill 
When  sunset  kisses  the  last  purple  hill 
With  glory;  touches  green  valleys  with  its  magic  light.  .  . 
Then  might  I  be  content  to  endure  one  brief  night. 
If  I  might  hear  again  the  cadence  of  your  voice, 
Waking  my  soul  to  live  and  to  rejoice; 
If  I  might  lay  my  folded  hands  in  silent  prayer 
Upon  your  head  and  let  them  linger  there, 
And  see  again  the  light  love  brought  into  your  eyes — 
Those  visions  fair  which  meant  our  paradise; 
Then  might  I  wait  in  patience,  without  tears, 
However  long  might  be  the  empty  years.