[Vol34 | February 1947 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Congratulations to President Amy Brown Lyman on Her Birthday February 7]
But  the  evenings  were  different  and  President  Brigham  Young,  and  for 
most  interesting.  At  that  time  there  many  years  superintendent  of 
was  real  activity— work  and  recrea-  Z.C.M.I.

Sixty    Ljears  ^tgo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  February  1,  and  February  15,  1887 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
DON'T  WAIT 
Don't  wait  until  I'm  gone,  dearest, 
Before  you  tribute  pay, 
Till  the  spirit  has  departed, 
And  left  but  lifeless  clay; 
Do  not  wait  till  all  is  over, 
And  then,  with  mournful  lay, 
In  a  voice  of  trembling  sorrow, 
Regret  the  long  delay. 
— L.  M.  Hewlings 
A  HUMBLE  TESTIMONY:  It  seems  that  the  time  has  fully  come  when  the 
daughters  of  Zion  are  called  upon  to  raise  their  voices  and  declare  unto  the  nation  and 
the  world  the  testimonies  which  God  has  given  them  of  His  work  in  these  last  days  .... 
Sisters,  above  all  things,  trust  in  God;  have  faith,  and  cultivate  and  exercise  patience  .... 
— Phena 
VARIOUS  QUALIFICATIONS:  My  forte  was  needlework,  to  which  I  was  fairly 
drilled,  my  first  lesson  beginning  when  I  was  so  small  (four  years  of  age)  that  ma  used 
to  seat  me  on  the  table  edge  so  that  my  work  might  be  nearer  her  own  eyes  ....  My  very 
fond  and  indulgent  father  provided  me  with  a  gold  thimble,  made  by  a  Spanish  jeweler, 
from  a  nugget  he  himself  had  taken  from  the  mines  ....  Afterward  came  long  lessons 
from  a  lady  teacher  or  governess  ....  I  look  around  upon  my  almost  idle  young  friends 
....  and  think  of  their  lack  of  knowledge  in  cutting  out  and  making  clothing  and  con- 
template how  prominent  a  figure  the  hired  seamstress  will  be  in  the  future  family  circles 
of  these  dear  girls  ....  — Augusta  Joyce  Crocheron 
FROM  MANCOS,  COLORADO:  There  are  some  few  that  are  investigating  our 
principles,  and  we  hope  they  will  see  the  truth  ....  The  various  organizations  are  in 
good  working  order.  The  Relief  Society  is  doing  well,  considering  its  numbers  .... 
The  weather  has  been  unusually  fine  this  winter,  scarcely  enough  snow  to  cover  the 
ground.  This  is  a  remarkably  healthful  place  ....  We  should  ever  be  on  our  guard, 
prepared  to  defend  our  religion  ....  The  young  can  no  longer  depend  on  their  parents' 
testimony,  but  must  obtain  one  for  themselves. 
—Moselle  Hall 
ZINA  D.  H.  YOUNG:  On  Monday,  January  31,  a  party  of  ladies  assembled  by 
invitation,  at  the  residence  of  Mrs.  Maria  Y.  Dougall,  to  celebrate  the  birthday  anni- 
versary of  Mrs.  Zina  D.  H.  Young.  There  were  present  some  of  the  veteran  women  of