[Vol34 | February 1947 | Sequence: 24 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes From the Field: General Activities and Special Programs General Secretary-Treasurer Margaret C. Pickering]
Sixty    Ljears  ^tgo 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  February  1,  and  February  15,  1887 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
DON'T  WAIT 
Don't  wait  until  I'm  gone,  dearest, 
Before  you  tribute  pay, 
Till  the  spirit  has  departed, 
And  left  but  lifeless  clay; 
Do  not  wait  till  all  is  over, 
And  then,  with  mournful  lay, 
In  a  voice  of  trembling  sorrow, 
Regret  the  long  delay. 
— L.  M.  Hewlings 
A  HUMBLE  TESTIMONY:  It  seems  that  the  time  has  fully  come  when  the 
daughters  of  Zion  are  called  upon  to  raise  their  voices  and  declare  unto  the  nation  and 
the  world  the  testimonies  which  God  has  given  them  of  His  work  in  these  last  days  .... 
Sisters,  above  all  things,  trust  in  God;  have  faith,  and  cultivate  and  exercise  patience  .... 
— Phena 
VARIOUS  QUALIFICATIONS:  My  forte  was  needlework,  to  which  I  was  fairly 
drilled,  my  first  lesson  beginning  when  I  was  so  small  (four  years  of  age)  that  ma  used 
to  seat  me  on  the  table  edge  so  that  my  work  might  be  nearer  her  own  eyes  ....  My  very 
fond  and  indulgent  father  provided  me  with  a  gold  thimble,  made  by  a  Spanish  jeweler, 
from  a  nugget  he  himself  had  taken  from  the  mines  ....  Afterward  came  long  lessons 
from  a  lady  teacher  or  governess  ....  I  look  around  upon  my  almost  idle  young  friends 
....  and  think  of  their  lack  of  knowledge  in  cutting  out  and  making  clothing  and  con- 
template how  prominent  a  figure  the  hired  seamstress  will  be  in  the  future  family  circles 
of  these  dear  girls  ....  — Augusta  Joyce  Crocheron 
FROM  MANCOS,  COLORADO:  There  are  some  few  that  are  investigating  our 
principles,  and  we  hope  they  will  see  the  truth  ....  The  various  organizations  are  in 
good  working  order.  The  Relief  Society  is  doing  well,  considering  its  numbers  .... 
The  weather  has  been  unusually  fine  this  winter,  scarcely  enough  snow  to  cover  the 
ground.  This  is  a  remarkably  healthful  place  ....  We  should  ever  be  on  our  guard, 
prepared  to  defend  our  religion  ....  The  young  can  no  longer  depend  on  their  parents' 
testimony,  but  must  obtain  one  for  themselves. 
—Moselle  Hall 
ZINA  D.  H.  YOUNG:  On  Monday,  January  31,  a  party  of  ladies  assembled  by 
invitation,  at  the  residence  of  Mrs.  Maria  Y.  Dougall,  to  celebrate  the  birthday  anni- 
versary of  Mrs.  Zina  D.  H.  Young.  There  were  present  some  of  the  veteran  women  of 
the  Church,  among  the  number,  Sister  Eliza  R.  Snow  Smith,  Catherine  Horrocks,  Sarah 
M.  Kimball,  M.  Isabella  Home,  Susan  S.  Young,  and  others  ....  The  party  was  a  very 
pleasant  one,  and  Sister  Zina,  whose  name  is  a  household  word  throughout  Zion,  must 
have  realized  that  her  friends  were  genuine  in  their  appreciation. 
Page  106

Woman's  Sphere 
Ramona  W.  Cannon 
MISS  SALLY  LUCAS  JEAN, 
who  has  been  a  consultant  on 
poliomyelitis  in  sixty  countries,  vis- 
ited Salt  Lake  City  in  November, 
and,  at  a  Soroptomists'  dinner,  pub- 
licly congratulated  Mrs.  Emily  S. 
Stewart,  daughter  of  President 
George  Albert  Smith,  on  her  work 
as  state  director  of  women's  activi- 
ties for  the  National  Foundation  for 
Poliomyelitis.  Utah,  with  a  chair- 
man in  every  county,  stands  at  the 
top  of  the  nation  in  organization, 
and  in  relief  for  sufferers,  it  was  dis- 
closed later,  in  a  New  York  confer- 
ence, attended  by  Mrs.  Stewart, 
where  the  national  president,  Basil 
O'Connor,  and  Cornelia  Otis  Skin- 
ner were  speakers.  Mrs.  Stewart  ac- 
companied Miss  Jean  to  a  polio  con- 
ference in  Arizona,  and  on  her  way 
home,  lovely  Mary  Pickford,  a  co- 
worker in  the  fight  against  polio- 
myelitis, entertained  for  Mrs.  Stew- 
art at  Pickfair,  where,  the  hostess 
said,  Mrs.  Stewart  won  all  hearts. 
"pOR  the  first  time  in  history,  a 
group  to  effect  the  advancement 
of  women  has  met  under  the  spon- 
sorship of  men  and  women,  instead 
of  women  only.  It  is  the  Commis- 
sion on  the  Status  of  Women,  an 
outgrowth  of  the  Economic  and  So- 
cial Council  of  the  United  Nations. 
The  goal  of  this  organization  is  to 
provide  for  women  a  status  equal  to 
that  of  men  in  all  fields  of  human 
enterprise— in  political,  social,  and 
economic  freedom;  and  in  full  per- 
sonality development.  Among  oth- 
ers, women  from  China,  Poland,  In- 
dia, South  America,  and  Lebanon 
participated. 
JVJEETINGS  of  great  import  to 
women  occurred  in  New  York 
in  late  October,  1946.  Mrs.  Sterling 
Ercanbrack,  Provo,  President  of  the 
Utah  Federation  of  Women's  Clubs, 
and  dean  of  all  state  presidents  and 
a  member  of  the  executive  commit- 
tee in  the  general  federation,  was,  on 
account  of  these  positions,  admitted 
into  many  exclusive  sessions.  She 
took  part  in  a  conference  of  the 
board  of  directors  of  the  National 
Federation,  whose  watchword  this 
year  is  "Conservation  of  Youth." 
She  attended  the  brilliant  Interna- 
tional Assembly  of  Women,  the  dele- 
gates to  which  are  chosen  by  their 
governments  for  outstanding  ability 
and  service  to  their  countries.  Fifty- 
three  countries  were  represented  by 
137  delegates.  The  German  and 
Japanese  delegates  addressed  the 
group.  All  participants  on  the  pro- 
gram spoke  in  English.  The  theme 
of  the  meetings  was  "The  World 
We  Live  In  and  the  World  We 
Hope  For."  Mrs.  Ercanbrack  also 
attended  sessions  of  the  United  Na- 
tions Conference  and  the  challeng- 
ing New  York  Herald-Tribune 
World  Forum. 
Page  107

EDITORIAL 
VOL  34  FEBRUARY  1947  NO.  2 
(^faithful  to  the  [Pioneer  cKerttage 
/^FTTIMES  during  the  Centen-  call  to  forsake  worldly  possessions 
nial  year  of  1947,  Latter-day  wrested  from  the  sagebrush  wastes. 
Saints  will  recall  the  experiences  of  Nevertheless,  difficult  trials,  tempta- 
the  pioneers,  and  wonder  if  they—  tions,  and  testing  experiences  await 
descendants  by  lineage  or  tradition  each  generation.  The  Lord  has  said 
—are  measuring  up  to  the  achieve-  that  this  life  is  a  state  of  probation 
ments  and  self-sacrifice  of  their  pio-  and  that  men  are  free  to  choose  lib- 
neer  ancestry.  erty  and  eternal  life,  or  to  choose 
To  the  pioneers  came  the  decision  captivity  and  death.  So,  today,  also, 
to  forsake  worldly  possessions,  ac-  he  would  have  a  tried  people.  To