CASTLE ROCK VALLEY.

Mrs. Mary Gray:
	Dear Sister:—I failed to write your Christmas
letter this time but will try and make amends on
this the first day of that mysterious, anxiously
waited for 1891.
	I wish I could describe my writing room to
you, will try but cannot do it justice, I am seated
on a large chair-shaped rock in one of a hundred
lovely little glens, up here in the tops of the
Sierra Madres, name familiar since my school
days, but I then little thought I would ever climb
its rocky sides and view its wild deep gulches, its
lovely cliffs, its stately evergreen trees and shrubs.
	Well perhaps you would like to know how I
happen to be perched here on a rock in the tops
of the mountains at ten o’clock in the morning,
on the first day of the new year,it is a frosty morn-
ing but the sun shines down warmly in the nook
where I am and it is quite comfortable, although
the girls at the house declared I would freeze if
I came up here to write.
	Well our old time friends who reside here came
to Juarez to spend Christmas and I came back
with them for a visit. We left Juarez on the morn-
ing of the 27th,drove down the Verde river a mile
to the mill, then across the valley towards the
mountain. I am afraid to give any of the points
of the compass for fear my West should prove to
be East and my North, South,as I have not been
able to locate the sun since I left Mesa. It is
twelve miles from the town to the foot of the
mountain, where we stopped for dinner and to
rest and feed the horses before starting up the
mountain. The valley looked very pretty with
the river winding through it, with the trees along
its banks clothed in their winter robes of red
green, yellow and brown. The entire valley is
covered with waving grass, which must be lovely
when green; it is very pretty now; looks like a
light brown carpet with dark green spots (Juni-
per trees) scattered here and there. We passed
through the first settlement our people made in
this valley, now deserted, as it proved to be on
the wrong land and they had to move farther up
the river. Many of the old chimneys, some of
the rock houses and the Liberty Pole are still
standing; a shadow of sadness crept over me as
we passed by three lone graves, on the side of a
low hill or mound beyond the town site, I know
not the names of the sleepers, but they were those
of our faith and thereby linked to me.
	After a short rest and a camp-fire dinner, we
each got a stout stick and started on our four
mile walk, or rather climb; to the left as we start
up are some of the loveliest cliffs I ever saw,
covered with green and gray moss, and shapes
that look like the hand of man as well as nature
had fashioned them; deep down on one side a
mountain stream,now but a rivulet, at other times
a torrent, wound its way, now leaping over high
rocks then rippling along over level grassy places,
I cannot describe all the beauties on our journey.
You have been in the canons and on the mountains
of Utah and know how impossible it is to describe
these works of Nature’s God.
[Column 2]
	A light drizzling rain made the walking a little
unpleasant, but pioneers don’t mind such trifles
much. After our first walk we rode most of the
way to our night camp in the park, a lovely place,
we had to drive after dark, and sometime before
we reached camp the bright rays of a huge pine
fire came out like a friend to meet us, made by a
brother who passed us on the way and reached
camp first. Soon after we had supper the moon
arose and gave to the surrounding scenery, the
tall pine trees and still water, a wierd ghost-like
appearance, which brought Rip Van Winkle into
my dreams that night.
	I must pass over the rest of the journey, for I
want to speak of some caves and cliffs we visited
the third day after we reached our destination.
the cliffs about a mile from the house the girls
have named Castle Rocks from their resemblance
to old ruined castles. There are several very high
grand looking arches and pillars in a variety of
forms and shapes; two we named Punch and Judy
from their resemblance to those noted personages;
others look like large urns and vases. We ex-
amined several of the caves which all show signs
of having been inhabited,the roof being black with
smoke, and broken pottery is scattered around;
one of them the girls has named the store,
another the meeting house, in this a gallery runs
all round the cave and a large pillar stands at the
front which the boys call the preacher. We could
not visit them all as it took too much climbing, so
after gathering some pretty ferns, mosses, and
pine cones we climbed and tumbled down again
to the lower regions, and reached home with
good appetites for dinner.
	A few days after we visited cave valley, where
the caves are larger; as we approach them the
immense rocks and cliffs and chasms look grand
beyond description, they strike one with wonder,
awe and admiration, and we are led to ask
when were they formed and whose the hands
that fashioned them. Surely amid such scenes the
unbeliever must cease to say there is no God.
	One large cave has been divided by thick walls
into a number of small rooms, and the plastered
walls are covered with pictures and hieroglyphics
as fresh and bright as if made but recently, yet
the oldest inhabitants know nothing of their origin
From this cave a deep trail was worn into the solid
rock that led down the river, at one side of the
cave a small stream of water was falling over
the rock, and had worn a basin in the rock below
Just inside the cave was an immense olla,used it is
supposed for storing grain, it is some fifteen feet
high, sloping from the centre to the top and
bottom; we found parts of several of them on a
smaller scale but this one was in perfect preserva-
tion.  In another large cave the brethren un-
covered a skeleton, which had been discovered
some time before near the entrance of the cave.
Under the rock which formed the floor was a hole
the skeleton had the appearance of having been
pushed hurriedly into it, the sight of it gave rise
to unpleasant feelings and conjectures. In fancy I
could see those poor creatures penned up in these
caves and dens in the rocks with the enemy out-
side and no doubt they perished by their weapons,
or the more slow and agonizing death,by famine.
	I shall remain here a few days longer,I have en-
joyed my visit very much.  Old friends and old
times have been spoken of round the bright pine fire
and when I return I hope I shall find my Christ-
mas letter from the “Old Home" awaiting me.
With a Happy New Year for all I will say adieu.
			Your loving sister,
							S. F. R.


