				CHRISTIANS?

	This question may seem rather a strange one
and in the negative a broad assertion to make,
but from my standpoint and reasoning I be-
lieve I can prove, invariably, NAY. I might
say without one exception saloon keepers and
drunkards are not good Christians. Now if
I were to ask either of these individuals,
"Are you a good Christian?" would not their
answer be, "Yes, I believe I am?" And should
I say to them, "Do you believe in doing unto
others as you would that they should do to
you, as taught by Christ, He whom all good
Christians certainly believe in, who set such
good and noble examples that all might
pattern after Him if they would?" "Oh yes,"
they will say, "this doctrine will apply very
well to religious people, but hardly to us."
"We have a living to make, we need money,
we want to become rich;" and if they the
saloon-keepers, were to tell the truth they
would say, "we do not care at whose expense
it is or who has to suffer for it." I say shame
on those persons who so wilfully rob men of
their means and their manhood, and pander to
their vile tastes, who deprive wives of their
husband's support, and children of their
father's care, and make outcasts of those who
are near and dear to us. This is the work
of saloon-keepers, with a thousand more evils
attached, which are too odious to mention.
	And what shall I say of the drunkard? A
most despicable creature indeed, with all his
reasoning faculties lower than the brutes in
the field. A man whom God created in the
beginning to be a protector over women, to
love, honor, and cherish her. A being whom
God made in His own image, with a mind
capable of becoming the most intelligent of
all His creatures. One who should set a good
example—the head of his family—being kind,
virtuous, loving, and a good provider, for
the Bible says, "he that does not provide for
his family is worse than an infidel." And can
a drunkard do this when he is visiting these
vile grog shops, with their more vile associa-
tions and temptations, spending his money on
his own dear self, with never a thought of his
poor wife and innocent children who should
have his help and support. I say he cannot.
And is this all the harm he does? How many
homes have been made desolate that once were
happy, where wives had all confidence in
their husbands, and where all things seemed
in harmony with each other, and where love
and joy prevailed. But now, how different!
How the poor wives' hearts are made to ache,
their tender feelings lacerated, their love—a
thing to be spurned. How the dear children
are made to suffer for want of proper food
and clothing, and above all, for want of a
father in the true sense of the word. Oh what
a curse drink is, in this the 19th century,
leading to all the crimes in the catalogue.
And men take it because, forsooth, they have
not the stamina or moral courage to resist it—
they, the stronger sex, they who should set a
better example, but in the mean time leave
this for the poor, despised women, the
weaker sex, to do.
	Do I not know of cases which have come
under my own observation, where lovely,
refined, virtuous girls have married men who,
to all outward appearances were gentlemen,
and after a few months this hideous vice
would make its appearance, making their wives'
lives perfectly miserable, and in a few years
when beautiful children have begun to grow
around them, have made their homes so in-
tolerable and unhappy by their vicious habits,
bad debts and wanton inability to provide for
their families, that the poor wives have been
compelled to leave their husbands, taking
their children with them and doing anything
that lay in their power to gain an honest

[column 2]
living, perhaps blamed by people for taking
such a course, while the husband and father
goes on in his downward course, neither know-
ing nor caring what becomes of them—the
dear ones whom he had vowed to love and
cherish.
	I have seen these things and it has caused
my heart to ache for the misery and unhappi-
ness it has brought. This may seem strong
language to use, and perhaps there are
exceptions to every rule, but can we consistently
say that saloon-keepers and drunkards are
good Christians?


