	ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

A few out of the multitude of friends of (Aunt

[column 2]
Zina) as she is lovingly called, assembled at the 
residence of Mr. and Mrs. W. B. Dougall, on 
Saturday, January, 31st, 1891, to celebrate the 
seventieth birthday of that honored lady and 
mother in Israel.
	The sisters many of them gathered about 4
p.m. in Sister Dougall's elegant parlors and 
greeted with congratulations and good wishes the
venerable lady, who on that day attained the age
of three score and ten years. Mrs. Young was 
dressed in black silk with dainty lace at the neck
and sleeves, and wore a cap of soft black lace.
Her complexion was as bright as that of a young
woman, and there is scarcely a sign of gray
among the soft brown hair, which she still wears 
in the old style combed plain and put behind her 
ears in a little curl with side combs. 
One rather pretty feature of the party was the 
souvenirs which had been prepared for the occa-
sion; handsome double cards painted in flowers
and miniature scenes, with an original verse in-
side, and tied at the corner with a bow of white
ribbon. 
	Dear Friends and kindred who're assembled here,
		I greet you lovingly, this day of days;
	Congratulate me on my seventieth year,
		And give our Heavenly Father all the praise,
	Rejoice with me that life has been so sweet.
		And all its joys and blessings so complete.

	These little remembrances of the day were 
handed round by Sister Young on a silver tray,
each of the ladies selected the one she liked best,
wearing it as a badge, the remainder of the 
evening.
	Delicious refreshments were daintily served to 
the guests and later on in the evening there was 
music and singing; Bishop Whitney sang some
old-fashioned songs which delighted the company
very much indeed, and added greatly to the en-
tertainment, Mrs. Hattie H. Young rendered some 
exquisite instrumental music in the very best
style, (she is a fine performer on the piano) and 
young Mr. Dougall, son of the host and hostess,
also gave a few choice selections that were well
executed. Music adds greatly to the enjoyment
of such an occasion; in fact an evening party is
hardly complete without it.
	A poem composed by Mrs. Emily H. Wood-
mansee, and which we give here in full, was read,
and also a prose article in honor of Sister Zina's
beautiful life-work, composed and read by Susa
Y. Gates. Sister Young then gave an impromptu
address of welcome and appreciation for the
honor bestowed by her kindred and friends, and 
expressed herself as unworthy of such an ova-
tion.
	Apostle F. D. Richards in a few well-timed re-
marks, referred to the noble work done by Sister
Zina and also Sister Eliza with whom she had 
been many years associated, and whom she suc-
ceeded in the office of President of the Relief 
Society of the Church. His speech was rich in 
praise of these eminent ladies and others who
have rendered them valuable assistance, and in 
fact to all the women of Zion, who have been 
faithful in the Society.
	Pres. George Q. Cannon addressed the com-
pany briefly, commending the efforts of the wo-
men of Zion, and contrasting the present circum-
stances and surroundings of this people with the 
hardships and privations many had endured in 
the past; said prosperity would increase with the 
Saints in these valleys, and also referred to the
great future when we shall have passed into the 
exaltation prepared for the faithful. His remarks
were very comforting to those who have endured
much and made great sacrifices for the Gospel.
	About eleven o'clock the company dispersed
having spent a charming evening socially, one 
long to be remembered by all present.
	The 31st of January is also the birthday of Mrs.
Jane S. Richards, Mrs. Young's First Counselor


in the Relief Society, Mrs. Richards however is
somewhat younger; she arrived from Ogden on a
late train in time to participate in the evening’s
enjoyment, though her birthday was celebrated
appropriately at home with her own family and
relatives, some of whom came a long distance to
express their love and good feelings.
	The EXPONENT adds most sincere congratula-
tions, and the wish that these honored mothers
in Israel may live yet many years to carry on the
work established by the pioneer women of Zion,
many of whom have passed away,leaving a noble
example for those to follow, who are today en-
gaged in the uplifting of humanity, through the
organization of the Relief Society.


