			MALAD STAKE.
	Conference of the Relief Society of the


[Column 1]

Malad Stake of Zion met at Samaria, Nov.
16th, 1890. On the stand were Pres. O. C.
Hoskins, Coun. William H. Gibbs, several
of the brethren of the High Council, and
Presidents and Counselors of Relief Society
etc. Meeting called by Pres. Mary D. Davis
of Samaria, singing "Prayer is the soul's
sincere desire." Prayer was offered by Pres.
O. C. Hoskins; singing "Thy will be done."
Pres. Lucinda Hoskins made a few opening
remarks. The minutes of last conference were
read and approved.
	Pres. Mary D. Davis reported the Samaria
Society as being in a prosperous condition,
said the sisters are united and striving to live
their religion and doing all the good in their
power.
	Pres. Eliza Chivers gave in a favorable
report of the Cherry Creek Society.
	Pres. Rosa Howell reported Muddy Creek
Society, said they held their meetings regularly,
when they met they had a time of rejoicing
and enjoyed a portion of the Spirit of the Lord.
	Pres. Annie Sawyer, of Malad City, said the
Society over which she presided was in a
prosperous condition and the sisters alive to
their duties.
	Coun. Mary Stewart exhorted the sisters to
attend to their meetings: spoke of the great
faith and power given to those that are
humble and striving to do the will of the
Lord.
	Pres. O. C. Hoskins felt happy to hear
the testimonies of the sisters. Spoke of the
progress the Church is making; said it has cost
the best blood of the nation, besides thousands
of dollars, to bring us to the place we are
standing in to day. Spoke of the condition of
our day schools and the necessity of teaching
our children in the ways of the Lord.
	Pres. Lucinda Hoskins felt thankful for the
good instructions givin in this conference,
hoped the sisters would feel that they had
been blessed under the instructions that had
been given, and that we would try to put in
practice that which we had heard; said as
mothers we need information on a great many
subjects especially those things pertaining to
our religion. Spoke of obedience; touched on
many important subjects pertaining to our
holy religion.
	Coun. Wm. H. Gibbs said, without the aid
and assistance of God we are not able to edify
such an enlightened people as the Latter-day
Saints; felt proud to hear the sisters bear their
testimonies, exhorted us to live humble and
our Father in heaven would bless us.
	Sister Eliza A. Hall then spoke a short time.
	Bro. Samuel Davis, of Samaria, made a few
remarks. The Choir sang an anthem; and the
benediction was pronounced by Bro. David
Hall.
