AMONG EASTERN WOMEN.
			M. A. Y. GREENHALGH.
	While writing of the women of the Orient,
one’s mind naturally reverts to Palestine, and
the women of the people to which that land
by right belongs, and where, ere long, the
daughters of Israel, will take their harps from
the willows and tune them to more joyous
themes, than for long ages past they have had
the heart to do. The Jewish woman as we see
her in the cities, not only in the East, but
throughout the known world, is one to call
forth our deepest sympathy and admiration.
Many of them beautiful as a dream, chaste
and patriotic, if the term may be applied to
the gentler sex, crushed beneath a load of sor-
row and misery; yet toiling on without com-
plaining to help their fathers, husbands, or
brothers, to bear the burden of their persecu-
tion, and the utter degradation to which they
are reduced and subjected.
	In Jerusalem, Rome, Paris, London, and
indeed in every city where the traveler stops
to rest, there are to be seen many a Ruth,
Esther, Miriam, or Deborah, sad-eyed and
weary, from long suffering and toil; and we
mentally ask, when will the harp of Israel be
again heard accompanying the songs of Zion,
and its music resound through the beautiful
city, and amid the vines and olives of Judea?
In no other European city can we see them
and their suffering more forcibly than in Rome.
In that city, for many years, the Hebrew race
had a chequered and uncertain career. The
seat of their original colony was not far from
the Ghetto,where they are now located, though
several families established themselves in the
quarter Franstivere, that is the portion of the
city across the Tiber. The Emperor Domitian
banished them to the valley of Egeria, a spot
between the present bosilica of St. John
Lateran, and the ruined baths of Carscalla;
they were not allowed to walk about the
more frequented streets, to build any place of
worship, or to occupy any public position.
But the full weight of their judicial ignominy,
and the accomplishment of the old prophecies
concerning them, did not culminate until Paul
the IV. shut them up within the wall of the
Ghetto. This word is derived from the Hebrew
chat. It signifies cut down, broken, abandoned.
Paul ordered that they should never appear in

[Column 2]
the streets of Rome, unless the women wore
yellow veils, and the men yellow hats. Yellow
in some countries is emblematic of ignominy.
	When Sixtus V. became pope, he, remem-
bering that the Jews were of the family from
which Christ came,treated them more liberally
and allowed them to build libraries and syna-
gogues. But all this was undone by Clement
VIII. and his immediate successors. And thus
they were made to suffer every indignity that
could be heaped upon them, until the early
years of Pius IX. (the last pope.) The first
sign of interest that he showed, was when he
gave a small coin to an aged beggar, who was
a Hebrew, “Sire,” said his attendant, “he is a
Jew.” The pontiff replied, “What does that
matter, he is a man.”
	The streets of the Ghetto are narrow,
crooked and dark, out of them are many blind
alleys, many of them not more than five or six
feet wide, and the squalor and filth is in-
describable, and the houses all have a look of
moldy decay. The Jewish race is here seen
in its saddest and lowest plight, not a ray re-
mains of its ancient glories. There are no
dignified forms, no keen and penetrating eyes,
none of those beautiful children, who in other
lands remind the Jew of the youth of his
nation; none of those superb black eyes, that
seem to unite the passions of Judith,the softness
of Esther, and the sadness of Rachel.
	The complexion is colorless, reminding one
of plants that have grown in the dark; this is
the result of imperfect ventilation and dark
abodes. One meets at every turn pale, stoop-
ing figures; on the steps, and within the house,
near the open windows, are seen starving wo-
men, laboriously plying the needle. Misery
stares forth from the tangled hair, and com-
plains silently in the yellow brown faces, no
beauty of feature recalls the countenance of
Rachel, Leah, or Miriam. Sometimes a glance
from a deep, set black eye, that looks up from
the needle and rags seems to say: “From the
daughter of Zion all her beauty is departed.
She weepeth sore in the night, and her tears
are on her cheeks, among all her lovers she
hath none to comfort her, all her friends have
dealt treacherously by her. How hath the
Lord covered the daughter of Zion with a
cloud in His anger.”
	The Ghetto is about the most densely popu-
lated spot in any European city. The streets
are parallel to the river, and connected by
narrow lanes. Old father Tiber is just as in-
consistent a river as he was in the days of Ovid
or of Horace. He overflows his banks as
often, and sends into the streets of the Ghetto,
from the upper country, quantities of mud
and sewer filth, which requires a great stretch
of the imagination to call yellow, the only
name that will give even a faint idea of it is
black stinking mud.
	It might be presumed that the inundations
leaving this abominable deposit on the streets,
would be highly prejudicial to the health of
the inhabitants, but such does not seem to be
the case; and this is attributable to several
causes. One is the frequent ablutions of the
people, who are for the most part Pharisees of
the strictest sect. They practise the custom of
washing the hands and feet before meals, a
custom so strictly commanded among the Jews,
when the Redeemer was on the earth,that to
neglect it, was to be held guilty of a capital
crime. And to this day when an Arab or
descendant of Ishmael, wishes especially to


welcome a stranger, he will himself wash his
feet. Another cause more readily appreciable
is the copious use of olive oil, both as a 
medicine and as an article of diet. But per-
haps the habit they have of whitewashing their
houses on the return of all their festivals, is
the best preventive of disease.
	Garibaldi proposed to turn the channel of
the Tiber by means of weirs, so that when the
snows melted on the Appenine and Alban
mountains no inconvenience would be felt
from the flood in the city. This magnificent
scheme was never carried out, owing to the
poverty of the Italian exchequer.
	It has been conjectured that if the course
of the river, as it passes through Rome, could
be dried up for one year, the spoils that would
be found buried deep beneath its alluvial soil,
would amply pay the cost of the undertaking.
But no capitalist could be found to advance 
money upon such a contingency.
	And yet, amid all the filth and squalor of 
the Ghetto, are yet to be seen the remains of
the portico of Octavia. They are situated in
the very centre of the settlement. In this
magnificent abode, with its courts and corridors;
Titus was received and feasted, after his re-
turn from the conquest of Judea, and destruc-
tion of Jerusalem. He went first to pay his
vows to Capitoline Jove, leaving poor Simon,
the last of the Pharisee patriots, at the foot of
the hill, from whence he was taken to the dark
and foetid dungeons of the Mamertine prison,
and there, according to the tigerish brutality of
Rome, he was put to death, while Titus was be-
ing riotously entertained in the halls of
Octavia.
	In the Spring of 1873 the writer visited
Rome and the Ghetto, and found it as she has
described it. The imagination even of D'Israeli
could find nothing there to suggest proud reco-
lections or animating hopes, but only the petty 
wants and works of the present, that borrow 
no dignity from the past or the future.
	My memory and my pen have run away
with me, and taken me into subjects I had not
at first intended to touch upon. But who that
has visited the "Eternal City," its splendid
buildings and monuments, splendid even in
decay, and its ruins, and read in their history
the unmistakable testimony they bear to the
truth of the Gospel, can refrain from giving
vent to feelings of admiration; or or see the
degradation to which the descendants of Abra-
ham have been subjected too, without an in-
describable feeling of sorrow and pity for their
suffering, merited though it may be, through
their rejection of the Redeemer. At the same
time sending up a prayer to heaven, that our
Father will hasten the day of their restoration
and redemption.


