DEAR EXPONENT:
	I have been thinking for some time of writing
a brief account of our little settlement among
the hills of South Western Colorado, for the
benefit of the readers of the EXPONENT, but
like every thing that can be, in this busy world
it has been left till “to-morrow.” But now,
one who has the authority says I must write
you an account of a little social affair which
took place on the 14th of this month, in honor
of Sister Mary Roberts, who until recently has
held the position of Pres. of our Relief Society.
As Sister Roberts contemplates moving away
shortly, it was decided that the sisters should
turn out in force and surprise her. Accord-
ingly, on the day appointed, the most of the
sisters, with babies and baskets, and some of
the brethren met at one of the stores, and soon
after several sleigh loads were wending their
way westward towards the home of Sister
Roberts, where on our arrival we met with a
very cordial welcome. As it was nearly noon the
first thing in order was dinner,and while it was
being prepared the company were entertained
by one of the brethren who had “been there,”
singing a song that was composed in the“pen,”
which awakened many reflections. After the
repast was over and the tables cleared away,
the company were called to order and the fol-
lowing address, written by Sister Louie White,
was read:

	Dear Sisters:—In attempting to perform my
part in the programme, I am keenly sensible
of my inability to acquit myself in as credit-
able a manner as I would like; but, as Latter-
day Saints, we are all aware that unless our
efforts, whether in speaking or in writing, are
dictated by a higher power than that of our
own, they will prove unsatisfactory and un-
profitable, therefore, I trust that although the
few lines which I shall write may be simple
and unadorned with the flowers of rhetoric
that the spirit which they breathe may be one
worthy to find an echo in the heart of each
one present. We have met to-day, dear sister,
to show you that honor and respect which we
feel is yours by right, in consideration of your
labors in our midst, not only in connection
with our Relief Society but also in the Sabbath
School, where you have been an efficient and
diligent worker, in seeking to instil in the
minds of those under your jurisdiction the
principles of life and salvation. Although at
times your spirit and body have been weighed
down, by reason of the trials and difficulties
[Column 2]
through which you have been called to pass,
you have always manifested a desire to per-
form your duties as a Latter-day Saint.
	We desire to assure you of our love and
esteem, and to express our appreciation of the
many pleasant and profitable hours that we
have spent in your society, and of the wise
counsel you have given us, especialy that por-
tion of it which admonished us to perform
faithfully the duties which we owe to our
children. Your earnest remarks on this sub-
ject have ever touched a responsive chord in
our hearts, for we realize that the most im-
portant duty devolving upon us is the bringing
forth and training of the souls of men and
women who are destined to fill responsible
positions in this great Latter-day Church, and
we trust that the Lord will give us strength
to carry out the instructions we have received,
that we may become more worthy and per-
fect mothers. We know that men and nations
are not given to rising higher than the source
from whence they spring, hence the necessity
of perfecting ourselves as mothers, that the
level to which our children may rise shall be
an exalted one. We feel that you have set us
a worthy example in the care you have
taken of the intelligent spirits that our Father
has placed in your keeping, and we trust that
you may be rewarded by having your child-
ren rise up and call you blessed, and that you
may experience the truest joy that a mother
can know,that of seeing her children grow up
valiant for the truth, honored and beloved by
the good and noble. As you journey on
through life, and encounter the trials which
beset its pathway, we pray that you may have
strength given you as your day, that you may
pass cheerfully under the rod, and feel at all
times to acknowledge the over-ruling provi-
dence of an all-wise Father; never shrinking
from the trials through which he may call
you to go, but continually seeking for strength
to bear them, realizing that they are blessings
in disguise, as each one cheerfully borne in-
creases our faith and proves our integrity.
You have been endowed with talents which, if
wisely used, will be a source of joy and satis-
faction to yourself and of encouragement to
others. Wherever you may go you will find
opportunities for the exercise of those talents
in assisting to advance the cause of truth, as
the field is wide, and the laborers few.
	You have our kindest wishes for yourself
and family, and wherever your lot may be cast
we trust that you may be blessed both
spiritually and temporally. And we also trust
that when you leave us you may carry with
you many pleasant memories of friends found
and associations formed while here. And
while we are assembled together at this time,
may the spirit which we manifest, and the
words which we speak, be of such a nature
that in years to come we shall be able to look
back to this day, as one of the bright spots in
our lives; and although in the future we may
walk in separate paths, may each one’s path be
a branch of that road which leads to life
eternal; and when we have reached the
terminus may we have the privilege of renew-
ing the associations begun in this life, with
spirits and bodies unfettered by the weaknesses
pertaining to mortality, free to enjoy to the
fullest extent each others society throughout
the boundless ages of eternity.”

	Sister Roberts then responded by expressing
her appreciation of the sentiments just read,
and of the honor shown her by those present.
Said the years spent here were among the
happiest of her life, and in leaving she would
leave behind many kind friends who would
always be affectionately remembered. Felt to
give the glory to her Heavenly Father for
whatever good she might have accomplished
while here.
	Appropriate remarks were then made by
[Column 3] 
Pres. Wm. Halls and Brother Roberts, after
which the time was spent in singing, dancing
and social chat, till about sundown, when
after a general hand-shaking, we took our de-
parture, feeling all the happier for having
shown a desire to make others happy. 
	We have about forty-five fine families here,
and are blessed with peace and a goodly degree
of prosperity. This is a very good grain country
but too high an altitude for fruit, except the
hardier kinds, and we have very little of that
as yet, so that even dried fruit is deemed quite
a luxury, especialy as we have to pay twenty-
five cents a pound for it. We have to pay
rather a high price for all our supplies, but, as
we will soon have a railroad running through
our town, we are in hopes that the prices will
be lower in the near future. Our associations
are all in fairly good running order, consider-
ing our scattered condition, the majority have
to travel two or three miles in order to attend 
meetings, which is quite a disadvantage in the
Winter time. Our educational facilities are
very good. Our people are in the minority,
but we are treated very kindly by our out-
side friends. There are three ministers of the
Methodist persuasion here, two of them have
attended our meetings two or three times and
preached for our benefit, but I haven’t heard
of their making any converts, although one of
the outsiders here promised them quite a large
sum of money when they should convert a
“Mormon.”
	Success to the EXPONENT, “May it live long
and prosper,” is the sincere wish of one who
watches anxiously for its coming and eagerly
scans its pages for tidings of old-time friends,
for,
		"My heart keeps wandering home 
	To all the dear ones there,"
and I don’t suppose it will ever for-swear its
allegiance to the old home and its associations,
but when I take into consideration the fact
that Utah of to day isn’t Utah of the past, I
console myself with the thought that perhaps,
after all, I am happier here, striving in my
humble way to assist in building up one of the
Stakes of Zion,than I would be there under the
changed state of affairs.
							L. M. W. 
	Mancos, Colo., Jan. 20,1891.


