W. S. A. OF PAYSON.

	The re-organization of the Woman’s Suffrage
Association, of Payson, took place at Payson,
Jan. 15th, 1891. The meeting convened at
the Meeting House at the call of the vice-
president. After devotional exercises, Mrs.
Millie Stark, vice-president, stated that the
object of the meeting was that of re-organiza-
tion,  and visitors were present from Provo,
who came over for that purpose, viz: Vice-
President Mrs. Electa Bullock and Mrs.
Horrocks, accompanied by Isaac Bullock, Sen.
	The by-laws of the Woman’s Suffrage
Association were read by Mrs. E. Bullock, and
also the platform of the National American
Woman’s Suffrage Association, which were
adopted. The following organization was then
effected by unanimous vote.
	Millie Stark, president; Hannah Wride,
vice-president; Minnie Fairbanks, secretary;
Lillie Fairbanks, assistant secretary; Jeanette
Tanner, treasurer; Ann Pickering, B. J.
Simons, Elizabeth Lant, Isabella Finleyson,
Mary A. Hardy, Ida Coombs, executive
committee, with Mrs. Pickering, chairman.
	Mrs. E. Bullock then addressed the meeting
in a very spirited manner. Said, previously
we had only a vice-president in our organiza-
tions, but she was now in favor of a president
and more complete organization, and for this
reason a president had been appointed with
more aids and committees. She believed
women should occupy a different position in
future to what, they occupy at the present day.
She referred to a speech of Mrs. E. B.Wells at
the W.S.A.: “We have known our weakness
for years now let us know our strength." Women
were destined to be equal to men. We should
assert our rights, learn what is going
on iu the world, keep posted in political
movements; we then are better mothers and
wives.
	Mr. Charles Ellis, the lecturer, eulogised the
ladies in their heroism, in pioneering the way
to this wild west, and wished them success in
endeavoring to elevate the sex, and educate
themselves in their rights and privileges, and
regain their franchise.
	Mr. Isaac Bullock made encouraging re-
marks, “Women rule the destiny of men” and
are wise counselors. They succeed in almost
everything.
	Mrs. Horrocks, of Provo, spoke of the fees
of the initiation, which is an annual fee for the
expenses of the association, of fifty cents from
each member. Mrs. E. Bullock has been ap-
pointed to go as a delegate to Washinton next
month. Women are expected to work side
by side with men, and we are not slaves but
free to act for ourselves in all matters of in-
telligence and not be trodden under foot or
tyrannized over by men.
	Mrs. M. Stark apologized and said that
through her sickness, during her past year’s,
business in the W. S. A. had been neglected.
On account of the storm to-day, we had not a
larger gathering in the interest of our associa-
tion. She encouraged all members to be
active.
	Remarks were also made by Mr. J. S.
Tanner and D. Lant which were to the point
and instructive. Adjourned for two weeks.
Benediction by Bishop J. S. Tanner.
			M. A. HARDY, Sec'y, protem.


