BOX ELDER.
	The Relief Society of the Box Elder Stake
held its Conference in the Tabernacle at
Brigham City, Dec. 9, 1890. Counselor Mary
Wright presiding. Singing, "Come let us
anew." Prayer by Bishop Jenson. Singing
"O, Glory of all the Saints." Roll called,
minutes of September Conference read and
approved. Pres. Olivia Widerborg apologized
for being late, also stated that we dispense with
the verbal reports as the time would be short
and as Pres. Zina D. H. Young was with us,
we would all wish to hear her.
	Sister Young said, "We are engaged in a
great and glorious work, I am proud of the
sisters here, your faces speak well for you. O,
my sisters, be careful of your little ones, teach
them to walk in the path of our Savior;
attend your meetings. Relief Society members
make better mothers, have more faith in God,
and do more good in sickness, both by ad-
ministering and nursing; always impress the

[Column 2]

young people with faith to call on the Elders
in sickness. Sisters call upon those who are
weak in faith, and cheer them, take comfort to
the poor and lonely ones." Spoke upon pride,
and quoted some of the sayings of Pres. Young
and of Pres. Woodruff. Dwelt upon union at
home, the love, honor and purity thereof and
its natural results upon the youth. "Let us
love God and one another, the Lord holds the
destinies of our children in His hands."
Spoke upon the Deseret Hospital, the need
there was of help from the Relief Society in
all its branches and also referred to many more
great and glorious things too numerous to re-
cord, in her mild and motherly manner, ask
ing God's greater blessings on the sisters
throughout Zion.
	Presidents H. Hunsaker, Honeyville,
Hannah Harper, Lake Side, Mary Watkins,
4th Ward, Brigham City, reported their re-
spective branches, and Sister Watkins also
spoke of her personal acquaintance with the
Prophet Joseph. Bishop Jenson made some
remarks encouraging to the sisters.
	Sister Young spoke of a store in Salt Lake
City that had been started by the sisters, where
dry goods are sold, and dressmaking has
already been established; it is also intended
having millinery and hair dressing connected
with the store.
	Pres. 1st Ward, Brigham City, Susanna P.
Booth made a report of the branch over which
she presides.
	Pres. Z. D. H. Young, explained why Sisters
Jane S. Richards, and E. B. Wells did not ac-
company her, that both had sickness in their
family. She then spoke of laboring for the dead,
and cheering the poor; prayed God to bless all
assembled there.
	Pres. Widerborg stated there would be a
meeting in the afternoon at 2 p. m., to organize
a Woman's Suffrage Association for Box Elder
County, made some closing remarks, and
said, "We do not want to forget to give our
heartfelt thanks to Sister Young for her visit
to us."
		ANNIE WIXOM, Assistant Sec.

