UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the Conference of Relief Society
of Utah Stake, held in Provo City, Nov, 29th,
1890. Sister Mary John presiding, assisted by
her Counselors. Conference opened with sing-
ing and prayer; minutes of former conference
read and approved. Sister E. G. Cluff, was
pleased to see so many out this morning, it
was some time since she had met with us be-
fore. She had enjoyed her mission to Josepha
much, felt that we would enjoy ourselves
wherever we are if we are in the line of our
duty, and have the Spirit of God with us;
exhorted the sisters to faithfulness and re-
newed diligence in all good works; those that
have the approval of God are looking for
great events to happen, &c.
	Sister Marilla Daniels followed with good
instructions to one and all, was happy to meet
with us where we can enjoy the spirit of God.
We are blessed in having a chance to improve
our talents, let us strengthen and help each
other. Spoke of the death of Sister Johnson,
wife of Bishop J. P. R. Johnson, and Presi-
dent of the Relief Society of the 1st Ward of
Provo, said she was a faithful sister and we
miss her, but she has fought the good fight,
and her works will follow her. Great events
are nigh and we shall need strength from the
Lord to enable us to stand, and that we may
prove faithful was her prayer. A number of the
Presidents gave verbal reports of the society
over which they presided and also bore strong
and faithful testimonies to the truth of this
work, and their desires to hold out faithful.
	Sister Lucy B. Young felt happy to be with
us again; spoke of the events that had trans-
pired since our last Conference, and of the

[Column 3]

mission of herself and daughter to the States,
to attend a gathering of her kindred and rela-
tives; of the narrow escape they had from
death in a railroad accident, and of her prayers
to God to save them. Said I have proved that
God is with us and can save his children by
his Almighty power. Spoke of the testimony
that she bore to her father's house, also upon
the Word of Wisdom and various other subjects,
said there are crowns awaiting the faithful and
I prayed that we may be among the chosen
ones, &c. After a few remarks from Sister
Sorenson, and singing, conference adjourned
till 2 p. m. Benediction by Sister Patten.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 p. m, meet-
ing opened with singing and prayer. Bishop
Johnson was present. After a short interval
the Presidency of the Stake honored us with
their presence. Sister John felt pleased but
was sorry that we could not have the sisters
from the city as we had expected; knew this
was the work of God; exhorted the sisters to
live near and follow the teaching of our Savior
that we may not go astray. Spoke in the in-
terest of the Woman's Suffrage Association,
wished the sisters to attend the meetings, &c.
	Sister Bringhurst, from Springville gave the
sisters much good counsel and advice; also gave
a report of the society in that place as being
energetic, and the members faithful and trying
to do their duty in every way, &c.
	Sister Eliza Taylor represented the Third
Ward as being united and wiling to do all
they were called upon to do. President Smoot
said he was pleased to be with us, regarded
this society as of great worth in the Church. In
his travels through Utah County, had heard
good reports of the society and of its efficiency
in helping and providing for the poor; but
there is yet room for improvement; be on the
alert; look after the poor, comfort them, buoy
them up, speak words of comfort to them, that
is your mission. We are in a crisis religiously
and politically. We should be awake. We are
on the threshold of the greatest events that
have ever transpired, the clouds are heavy,
and daily the whole nation are arrayed against
us, a handful of people, who are trying to keep
the commandments of God. Let us look after
our children, a great responsibility rests on the
mothers in this thing; and may God help you
to be wise in all things is my prayer.
	Pres. John felt to endorse what had been
said by Pres. Smoot. There was never a time
when woman's mission was more important
than at the present, in curbing pride and infi-
delity; your mission is one of love, sympathy
and comfort and may God bless you in your
endeavors is my prayer.
	Pres. H. H. Cluff said it was gratifying
to feel the Spirit of this Gospel, it is the work
of God. These organizations are a power
among the people and wherever the Relief
Society is active the people are active. We
are on the verge of a change, we have heard
of a change for the Saints from under the
wicked and ungodly, this is the change. We are
told in the Doctrine and Covenants that when
Christ comes there will be only one half of the
people ready for Him, on the watch and pre-
pared, we know not the day nor the hour of
His coming, but may we all be faithful, and the
testimony continue with us, is my prayer.
Sister John felt that we had been blest in com-
ing together and asked the Lord to bless us
all, said, after singing, we will adjourn our
Conference for three months. Benediction by
Brother West.
		CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.


