SIX BRIGHT WOMEN.

	Miss Helen Reed, whose Sargent prize
translation of an ode of Horace leads in the
new Scribner's, has decided not to remain in
her position as literary editor of the Adver-
tiser. Miss Reed is now writing a literary
article each week for the New York World.
She will shortly make a visit in Washington.
	Mrs. Isabella Barrows, who is best known
as a writer, associate editor of the Christian
Register, quick stenographer and accomplished
linguist, was thoroughly educated for a
physician in the best foreign schools as well as
at home. But her love of medicine was rather
theoretical than practical. Literary work is
her pleasure.
	Miss O'Duffy, a young woman about 20
years old, is one of the largest importers of and
dealers in wild animals in this country. She
is the daughter of a Dublin druggist and has
a natural liking for the business.
	Miss Edith Brown is one of the most
successful of the younger artists in Boston.
She is a designer for stained glass, and has
taken prizes in competition with some of the
famous workers of this department. She is
only 21 years of age.
	Mrs. Chauncey M. Depew pays the penalty
of being the wife of New York's most popular
dinner guest. It is a very rare event for him
to dine at his own table during the season,
except when he is host himself. "So rare"
Mrs. Depew is quoted as saying "that I have
to engage him for it."
					New York Sun.


Dr. Lyman Abbott, at a meeting in the
interest of the Indians, said: "The best way to
prepare the Indian for freedom and citizenship
is to give him responsibilities—to make him a
citizen." Cannot Dr. Lyman Abbott see that,
on the same principle, devolving political re-
sponsibilities upon women will be good for
women and good for the State? If a wild
Indian with a vote is safe and useful in the 
body politic, may not civilized woman be
trusted with a vote also?
	Gov. Thayer, of Nebraska, has gone insane
through the fatigue and excitement attendant
upon the contest over the election. If a
woman had lost her mind under such circum-
stances, or if any assembly of women had behaved
as the Legislatures of Nebraska and several
other States have lately been doing it would
have been quoted everywhere as a proof that
women are not fit for legislators. We shall not
say that of the men who have so misbehaved. But
it is evident that they need the civilizing
influence of the "help meet for them."


