MORMON WIVES AND MOTHERS.

	The following extracts are from The Answer,
published in Detroit, Michigan, a very ably edited
journal devoted to literary cultivation. The
article referred to is entitled "Salt Lake
Snatches" and has been written by Mrs. Mary
Grant Major, who is spending the Winter in this
City. The lady is very pleasing and amiable, and
we cannot believe would wish to make any mis-
representation, but when she affirms in her letter
to the Answer, that "all that is sweet and sacred
and beautiful withered out of the home, etc., all
except mother," we must in justice to the "Mor-
mon" women whom we represent through our
paper, qualify this saying of hers.

	"One would think that a man with six wives
would be apt to have his head so turned with
flattery that his bump of self-esteem would be
visibly swollen. Nothing is farther from the
truth. One meek, little Gentile wife, with her
lifetime of admiration and loving trust in her hus-
band's wonderful abilities, can do more toward
turning a fellow's head than all the plural wives
in Christendom.

	"Talk of strong-minded females and "the lady
bachelors of America," there does not live so
self-contained and coldly independent a creature
as a Mormon plural wife. Nor do they hesitate
to speak in terms of unmeasured contempt of wo-
men who make an unreserved surrender of thought
to their husbands—that surrender of thought that
comes from a mutual and happy confidence.
	A plural wife does not calculate that her hus-
band shall take a very prominent part in her life
or plans. There are sanctuaries into which he
is never admitted, or if admitted, it is not long
until he is thrust out and the key turned on him
forever; a husband is a necessary evil, nothing
more. If you are simple enough to ask a plural
wife if she does not miss her husband, she will
tell you in very plain terms that she does not
hanker after his society in the least. Thus,

	The mills of the gods grind slowly;
		But they grind exceeding small.

	"But toward her children the plural wife shows
unstinted love and devotion. The Mormon son's
remarks concerning "father" are extremely lim-
ited, but his mother is the subject of frequent
and loving mention. You see, the children could
never be sure that papa would be home at tea
time, so it wasn't much use depending on him.
"Father" might be on a mission, but mother was
always ready to supply the needs of childish
hearts.
	So, again, the Mormon father is a cipher in the
polygamous household, in spite of all the trash

[column 2]
that has been written about patriarchs, and such
like.
	"All that was sweet and sacred and beautiful
withered out of the home touched by polygamy,
all—except "mother."

	The home she speaks of is the home which the
Edmunds' law has destroyed. In the homes of
plural wives formerly where the father
could in other days meet with his family from
time to time and be recognized by the wife and
children as husband and father, there can be no
father, now because the law has dealt with these
households by its most positive methods. There-
fore though the father is not "a cipher," as she
says, he cannot be in the true sense of the word
"the patriarch" with his large family around him,
as was the case previous to the enactment and
enforcement of the laws which forbid such asso-
ciation. Mrs. Major says "If you are simple
enough to ask a plural wife, if she does not miss her
husband, she will tell you in very plain terms that
she does not hanker after his society in the least."
Who Mrs. Major has for authority on this subject
we cannot say, but some of us who are in posses-
sion of facts are prepared to refute this
assertion, and to say there are no women on the
earth anywhere that have more love or reverence,
for the husband (to whom they are united by the
most solemn covenants not only for time but for
all eternity), than these plural wives: some of
these wives of whom she speaks so coldly are
hiding under this cold placid exterior broken
hearts, not because of the practise of plural
marriage, but because of the cruel separations
caused by this same law, spoken of heretofore.
Some have gone down to the grave lonely and
sorrowing. Others we grant are making the best
of the situation, and do not sit bemoaning their
unhappy fate, but cheerfully perform the duties of
father and mother both to the best of their ability.
	That many "Mormon" women are strong-
minded is true, that they are self-contained and
independent, is perhaps also true of some of them,
but there are as many different dispositions and
temperaments among women in the "Mormon"
Church as elsewhere.
	"Mormon" women are bearing the heavy
burdens brought upon them by "the strong arm of
the law" bravely. They are submitting to the
conditions the government has imposed upon
them heroically, but they are not accepting, nor
are they likely to, the shelter of the Industrial
Home—such protection would be most humiliat-
ing. The women of the world however bright
and intelligent they may be are not competent
judges of "Mormon" women. They have a solace
and a hope in the religion they have embraced
that "the world knows not of," this is what sup-
ports them under trials, and in the midst of
difficulties, keeping them from sinking into settled
melancholy or despair.
	The mother makes the home, the world over,
and if plural wives are better qualified to guard
the interests of the home, and hold the hearts of
the children than others, then they are a step in
advance, and how did it come about, except
through the cultivation of those higher qualities
of the head and heart that lift women to a
broader plane, where she is not totally dependent,
but is able to stand alone, if need be. True love
makes women strong not weak, and the strongest
minded women are capable of the deepest and
most ardent love, just as the strongest and bravest
men are the most tender and lovable.


[column 1]
	THREE SCORE AND TEN.
		1821.-1891.
