PRACTICAL POLITICAL STUDY.

	A Political Club was organized in Farming-
ton, Nov. 24, 1890, with J. F. Miller, a rising
young politician, as president; the members
being composed of both sexes. They meet as
a Legislative Assembly and as a House of
Representatives. They frame bills and
pass laws as systematically and earnestly as
though the fate of the Territory or nation de-
pended on their labors.
	A committee, appointed by the Speaker, on
Woman Suffrage, consisting of Lucy Clark,
Althalia M. Steed, Charles C. Miller, reported
the following bill, which, after an animated
discussion for three evenings, passed the Legis-
lature on its third reading by a vote of 26 to
22. The minority objected only to the clause
in the bill granting to women the right to hold
office. (The bill has not been sent to the
Governor yet.)
	"Be it enacted by the Governor and Legisla-
tive Assembly of Utah: That it shall be lawful
for women to vote at any and every election
held in the Territory of Utah, and their votes
shall be counted as valid and given effect.
And that they shall be entitled to hold any
office to which they may be elected."
	Lucy A. Clark, chairman of the committee
on Woman Suffrage, in presenting the bill,
said: Mr. Speaker, Members of the Legislature,
and Ladies and Gentlemen present: It is with
profound gratitude that we thank you for the
courtesy extended to us, the ladies who were
by special invitation from our honored presi-
dent, solicited to attend and take part in these
political deliberations. We consider that they
are educational and, therefore, accept of the
invitation, and trust that the moments we
spend here may be moments of pleasure and
profit. It is with pleasure that we present to
this honorable body of intelligent lawmakers
a bill asking that all political rights and privil-
eges may be guaranteed to women. We trust
that this honorable body will exhibit the same
degree of justice exhibited at the State Con-
stitutional Convention in Wyoming, when an
act, conferring equal rights upon all citizens,
passed the convention without an opposing
vote, and therefore became a commendable
plank in the platform, whereby they were ad-
mitted into the glorious union of States. The
Honorable Mr. Warren, Governor of Wyoming,
in his speech to the women, said: “Ladies, you
have builded well in the past, which is a suffic-
ient guarantee that your future actions will be
commendable.” It was ably proclaimed by the
champion of human rights, C. W. Penrose, that
if we would have a great race of men, we must
educate the mothers in politics, as well as other
branches, and as they had to pay taxes they
should have a voice in political affairs.
	Through a misguided and fanatical jealousy,
a board of political tricksters succeeded in
depriving the women of Utah of the suffrage,
after having intelligently and successfully exer-
cised the right for seventeen years. This un-
just measure was unsuccessfully opposed by
many intelligent men, and the leading women
suffragists of the nation.
	Some prejudice is being removed, and the
barriers that have stood in the path of woman's
progression so long are being obliterated one
by one. Their abilities are beginning to be
better appreciated by some. In twenty-four
of the forty-six States and Territories in the
Union, women exercise the suffrage on some
points. In Montana, twelve of the eighteen
county superintendents of schools are women.
Women have been placed upon the committee
of arrangements for the World's Fair, to be
held at Chicago in 1893, the highest position
of responsibility ever placed upon woman in
America.
	There is to be a pavilion constructed in hon-

[column 2]
or of Queen Isabella of Spain, whom we can
proudly and appropriately call the mother of
America, who, after Columbus had spent ten
years of toil and hardship, pleading with the
crowned heads of Europe for assistance to car-
ry out his plans, came to his relief and fitted
him out with ships and money, without which
he could not have made the discovery of this
renowned and glorious country. A lady archi-
tect, Miss Minerva Parker, has drawn the
plans for the pavilion to be erected in honor of
this renowned lady, and they have been ac-
cepted by the committee.
	Hamilton Wilcox, New York, said: “States-
men! politicians! editors! behold our move-
ment’s strength! Be wise in time; hasten,
while yet you may, to join the hosts who
struggle for the right!"
	We sincerely trust that there is not one gen-
tleman in this beautiful town of Farmington,
within the borders of this enlightened and
progressive Territory, or within the borders of
these United States, who could say to the Afri-
can slave, “step upon the platform with me,
share the emoluments of office with me,” and
at the same time say to his sainted mother,
his devoted wife, his beloved sister, or his angel
daughter, “remain below; live, breathe, and
pay taxes, but you shall have no voice in say-
ing who shall handle those taxes.”
	That all prejudice, fear and selfishness may
be ground to powder in the mill of human
progress, and that our bill may become a law,
we earnestly pray.				L. A. C.


