NOTES AND NEWS.

	Miss Lucile Banks succeeds her father as
editor of the Index, long a leading paper of
Columbus, Miss.
	Mabel W. Moore, M. D., has been elected
a vice-president of the Montgomery County
(Pa.) Medical Society.
	The Princess of Wales has given orders

[column 2]
that nothing need be submitted for her inspec-
tion, or that of her daughters, in which birds
are used as trimming.
	E. L. Halleck, superintendent of instruction
in Oklahoma, writes to the Woman's Tribune
that the bill to give women full suffrage lacked
only two or three votes of carrying in the
Territorial Legislature, and that women "can
now vote in municipal elections and on school
matters."
	Mrs. Helen M. Gougar has recently
addressed large audiences on woman suffrage
at Pawnee and Bockford Ill., Washington
Iowa, and Stevens Point Wis., Feb. 12, she
will address the Illinois Legislature on the
pending municipal suffrage bill, and a little
later will address the Indiana Legislature on
municipal suffrage and the "age of consent"
bills.
	Mrs. Anna Richardson, formerly a member
of the Bible-class at the Young Women's
Christian Association, of Boston, has
established a school for colored youth at
Marshalville, Ga., where every effort is being
made to better their condition. The King's
Daughters circles of the Association have
lately contributed $100 toward the support of
the school.
	The Woman's National Press Association
of Washington voted at its last meeting to join
the National Council of Women. Mrs. M. D.
Lincoln was appointed delegate, and Mrs. M.
S. Lockwood alternate, and Mrs. Lockwood,
Mrs. Crandall, and Mrs.  Mooney were ap-
pointed a committee to arrange for a reception
to the National Council in February.
	Gov. Russell did not own "real estate to the
value of £1,000," as required by the constitu-
tion of this State, until a few days before his
election, when his wife transferred to him
enough of her land to enable him legally to
hold the office for which he was a candidate;
but at the same time no amount of land or
money upon which she is taxed can enable
Mrs. Russell even to vote for the governor or
for any other State officer. This seems some-
how amiss.—Ex.
	The Legislatures of many States convene
this week. The friends of equal rights every-
where should try to secure municipal suffrage
for women wherever practicable. More and
more, men see the grievous injustice of with-
holding the ballot from women, who now have
opportunities for the best education, and ample
means of acquiring information upon public
questions. There is reason to hope for some
gain in this direction during the coming year,
and for the amelioration of some of the hard
legal conditions that rest upon women. At 
least, let us ask, in the hope that we shallre-
ceive.—Ex.
	George Bancroft, the historian, is dead.
He passed away at the age of ninety, full of
years and honors. Tributes sent by the
sovereigns of Europe, on the announcement of
his death, were added to many similar ones
here. The following fitting and appreciative
words were spoken of him by A. R. Spofford,
the Librarian of Congress, between whom
and Mr. Bancroft the warmest personal
friendship existed for many years: "His is the
most beautiful old age I have ever seen; calm,
peaceful, cultured, surrounded by friends, and
admired and revered by a whole nation, the
drawing to a close of his life is as grand and
beautiful and peaceful as the gradual fall of
night on a mountain peak."
								Ex.


In the elevated order of ideas the life of
man is glory; the life of woman is love.


Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, Prest. Mrs. Mattie Naisbitt-Thomas, Sup
[column 1]
WOMAN’S
CO-OPERATIVE
MERCANTILE and
MANUFACTURING
