[Vol22 | April 1935 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Resurrection Thomas]

(Lovingly nicknamed "The Mortgage Lifter.'') (To be concluded) Resurrection By Estelle Webb Thomas "He is risen! In the glory of the morn From the tomb's engulfing prison, Christ, the Savior, was reborn. And the earth, in happy token, Springs recurrent, from the tomb, Winter's leaden spell is broken In a burst of leaf and bloom. May we not the symbol borrow, As earth's miracles unroll, Rise from out all sin and sorrow In an Easter of the soul! He is risen!" Our Magazine—A Pageant By Blanche Kendall McKey In the center of the platform is a large representation of The Relief Society Magazine.
This is a box-like contrivance, large enough to hold three women in tableau, with a small opening or door at the back. The front opens like the cover of a book. The Relief Society Magazine cover of May, 1933, is effective and not difficult to reproduce, The reader stands down stage in one corner of the platform and the soloist in the other. The accompanist plays softly "O My Father;" the soloist takes up the refrain, singing the song through with feeling. As the music dies out, the reader begins softly "Crossing the Bar." READER "Sunset and evening star, And one clear call for me! And may there be no moaning of the bar, When I put out to sea. But such a tide as moving seems asleep, Too full for tide or foam, When that which drew from out the boundless deep Turns again home.
Twilight and evening bell, And after that the dark! And may there be no sadness of farewell When I embark; For tho' from out our bourne of Time and Place The flood may bear me far, I hope to see my Pilot face to face When I have crossed the bar." Alfred Lord Tennyson was an old man when he penned those beautiful words expressing his simple faith in a divine, merciful God. The poet had lived richly and honorably; peacefully -his eyes could close in their last sleep. To each of us at some time must come the call of "evening bell and after that the dark!' But we are prone to become so engrossed in earthly affairs that many of us seldom stop to consider why we are here or of what use is the struggle.
What shall we take back with us when we turn from mortality to meet our Pilot "face to face"?
Only that which we have learned from human experience; hearts filled with love and sympathy and minds stored with wisdom if we have lived abundantly. But life is too short to learn much from merely one's own experience, so we seek knowledge out of good books, for they bring us the best thoughts of all the ages. We who work in the Relief Society are proud of our magazine, unpretentious as it is. We feel that it enriches our lives in as much as it broadens our horizon by taking us into many fields,—fields of fancy and of fact.
Richter has said: "There are so many tender and holy emotions flying around in our inward world, so many rich and lovely flowers spring up which bear no seed, that it was a happiness poetry was invented, which receives into its limbus all these incorporeal spirits, and the perfume of all these flowers." Let us consider for a few moments one or two of our own poets. (Soft music: "An Old-fashioned Garden."
House lights are turned out, a spotlight flooding the magazine. The cover slowly opens disclosing a beautiful lady, costumed in nineteenth century dress. She sustains the tableau while the following poem is announced and read.