[Vol22 | April 1935 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: His Fathers Stone]
Oliver knew the danger of paraffin poisoning and that the services of any but the best surgeons would be too hazardous. But the World War brought great strides in this branch of surgery, and now Oliver and Esther were agreed that an operation could be performed successfully.
Esther would make the journey to Minnesota too, for the right eye had shrunk pitifully, until she also wore it bandaged. -"It may take a long time, Father,' Oliver had studied enough to know all the self sacrifice which this delicate operation would demand. "We might be gone over a year. It will make it pretty hard on you." "I will lease the land until your return." Richard Haven I, still stood erect and supple, still looked the world squarely in the. Face. "Richard would like to come back," suggested Oliver. “He isn't so happy there in the city, studying the violin." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "The boy is scarcely old enough to know his own mind," replied Father Haven. 'Let him continue as his father suggested. He is barely eighteen, and is filled with the unrest which this war has created among all young people. Let him study three years more, as his mother wishes, and as his father planned.
Then he may return. I will lease the farm to Japanese tenants until your return.
From now on until he is of age, Richard's grandfather may mold his future." "What do you mean, father?' Mother Haven almost lost the calm which the changing' years had brought her. 'You are saying he is to study music, and now you say you are to mold his future." Father Haven indulged in a little smug smile, enjoying the surprise which he knew his revelation would produce. “Sometimes it happens that a child has two grandfathers," he announced slowly. "Such was the case here.
Although we never knew him, and she never knew him, Kareen had a father—and a wonderful father.
After thirty odd years of banishment and terrible suffering, he has at last found his child. Kareen's father lives in the same apartment as they, and is about to undertake the training of the boy. The revolution in Russia released thousands of political prisoners, and he was one of the fortunate ones. The duenna, an ever faithful servant, furnished him with money and the address of the man whom the girl had married. I, myself, directed him to the apartment. He looks like a man returned from the grave, far removed from the light of day. The coal mines of Siberia are not the pleasantest place in the: world for a violinist to live." "No wonder Kareen loved music," soothed mother Haven. "No _ wonder she could not learn to keep HIS FATHER'S SON house properly. She was born a musician, and is teaching her boy the life she was denied." "He is his father's son,' admonished father Haven with emphasis. “Kareen may hope to mold the boy's life; but his grandfather will understand, and in due and proper time, our son's son will return to his people and his land." "Amen," breathed his listeners, as though a benediction had been pronounced. WHILE his Uncle Oliver underwent a delicate and prolonged operation; while his Aunt Esther secured a perfectly matched glass eye and the muscles of her face lost their tension; while the Japanese farmers cultivated the fertile acres he was to inherit, Rich213 ard Haven learned to play a violin with his soul. His white haired tutor recited actual tales of privation and suffering; told of the beauty of the young wife whom he had lost; described the perfection of the lost Stradivari instrument he had loved as though it were a child. The young man listened and played and improvised.
Just before he reached maturity, when Kareen was planning the European tour, when she was gloating in the soaring prices being paid for farm lands, she picked up one of his practice books which had fallen from the rack to the floor.
From it fluttered a small leaflet, worn, dog-eared and pencil marked. It was entitled: "The Romance of Burbank's Crimson Winter Rhubarb."
