[Vol22 | April 1935 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Happenings Cannon]

THE GENERAL BOARD Mrs. Emma A. Empey Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Ida P. Beal Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Mary Connelly Kimball Manager Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman



Vol. XXII APRIL, 1935 No. 4
EDITORIAL: When April Comes
EACH month brings its delights and its special days. April is a month of gladness and of new life Each clod seems to quicken under the sun's bright rays, and seeds spring up in verdure. Trees put on their green dresses and their glorious blossoms. The churches give forth their Easter messages and from choirs everywhere the glorious tidings "He is risen" ring out. To the people of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the month brings its annual Conference. From all the Stakes of the Church and from many Missions come men and women hungering for the bread of life. They have a few days of rejoicing. They hear the Church Leaders give inspired admonition, counsel and direction, then they return to their homes filled and ready to take up life's labors with new courage, because they are better fitted to meet its problems. April also brings the Relief Society Conference. Practically every Stake is represented and this great work given impetus and new life. So we rejoice when April comes with its joyous inspiration and benefits.
Lessons for Next Season
WE are very pleased to announce that in our next issue (May) we shall begin publishing our lessons for next season. We are sure our class teachers, especially, will be glad to have the lessons published so much earlier than we have done heretofore, so that they can read and plan their work during the summer months. They can also see early 244 what the entire course is and make their outlines knowing what will follow. We hope our members whose subscriptions expire in the spring will renew at once, and that those who RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE are not on our mailing list will secure these Magazines as they come out, and that they will put them carefully away so that they will be ready for our study work in the fall.
"Can Nations Be Neighbors?"
WE were honored March 4th to the 6th by a visit from Miss Lena Madesin Phillips, President of the National Council of Women. She spoke on "Can Nations be Neighbors"? Before a large and deeply interested audience in the ballroom of the Hotel Utah on March 4th. She pointed out the cataclysmic changes that have taken place during the last hundred years that have brought the world closer together. Also the present conditions that must be rectified before neighborliness can exist between nations. She paid the West a tribute when she said that she felt sure leadership must come increasingly from its precincts, because the West has kept its standards more than has the East. If the United States would be a good neighbor, she said, it must first set its own house in order and add to its economic security. It must keep peace within its own borders. There are at present 13,000,000 unemployed in this country, one family out of six are on relief of some sort. Surely terrible as is the condition, thinking, determined people can remedy it. If people realized that from 1919 to 1929, 12% of every dollar earned went for taxes, in 1932 20%, in 1933 25-30%, they would pay more attention to what is going on and how the money is being expended. The education of the people is the only hope of a democracy. 200,000 rural schools have been forced to close their doors, twelve and one-quarter million children forced out of school. Greed, fear and a straight spirit of nationalism will cause war. The propaganda of munition makers is also a fruitful source of war. If we would have neighborliness, we must pay the price. We need the courage of our pioneer forefathers. We must recondition our own souls to the ideals that may flower in economic security.
Foreign Mission Lessons
GREAT satisfaction is felt by the General Board and by the officers and members of our foreign mission Relief Societies in the fact that uniform lessons are now provided and have already been sent for next season's work. This is the first time in the history of our organization that this has been done. The lessons for the foreign missions cannot take as much space as those published in our Magazine, so the theological lessons have been abridged. Health lessons similar to those studied last year and literary lessons suitable for each country have been written. We are sure our sisters in foreign lands will be glad to know that they are studying the same theological EDITORIAL lessons as those studied by the Relief Society women throughout the Church, that the same health lessons are being taken in many countries, 245 and they will enjoy studying the literature of their own lands. May every success attend them in this work.
Leadership Week
It is always a joy to participate in the Brigham Young University Leadership Week. It has long been an outstanding event in the lives of thousands who are benefited by it. This year the theme, "The Building of Zion," was beautifully carried out. We deeply appreciate the courtesy extended by the school authorities in having a Relief Society hour each day and a beautiful display of handwork furnished by the Utah Stake. We were glad to meet so many of our Relief Society workers and hope that another year we shall be able to give more assistance in our work than we have ever done before.
A Ripe Old Age
THE "School of Maturates" of Oklahoma City of 800 members, all of whom are 70 years or over, think it is an easy thing to live to a ripe old age if you know how. These are the rules they have outlined: Take a walk in the open air each day. Keep the blood alkalinized by managed diet. Attend church or make a social call at least once a week. Pursue a personal hobby or light daily task. Maintain faith in life, people and the Infinite Goodness. Certainly these rules would make for a happy life and tend to prolong its duration.
Book Notice
THE Strange Adventures of Jimmy Microbe" written by Virginia Budd Jacobsen and Lyman L. Daines, M. D., illustrated by Kay Russon, fascinates children. They want to read it again and again. It is a most valuable aid in the formation of good health habits. Truths it so pleasingly teaches reach the child's inner consciousness and he is willing to embody them in his life. A little girl who had been forced to drink milk, after she had this book read to her, drank it willingly, as she began to realize the value of milk to her. The fact that the book points out the good as well as the bad microbes makes the children all the more alert to be careful and to protect themselves from the injurious ones. No one could read this book without gaining great benefit. Price $1.00. Deseret Book Co.
The Magazine Drive
Reports of Elko and Carlin, of the California Mission, were sent to President Hinckley, but not received by her, hence we publish them herewith: Elko, with 26 members, secured 30 subscriptions?115%. Blanche Jones, Magazine Agent. Carlin, with 16 members, secured 14 magazines?87%. Velda Giles, Magazine Agent. We congratulate these branches on their excellent work.