[Vol1 | Jul 1914 | Sequence: 03a | Category: Lesson | Title: Health and Hygiene Lesson II]

[Vol1 | July 1914 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Lesson | Title: Health and Hygiene Lesson II]

HEALTH AND HYGIENE Lesson II. (Forty Minutes.) NOTE According to the plan outlined in the Relief Society Guide the work for July and August will consist of lessons on Health and Hygiene.
In September the regular work in Genealogy, Home Ethics, Gardening, Literature, Art and Architecture will be resumed.
I Care of the Body.
Next to a sound mind, a sound body is one of our most valuable possessions.
Every care should be taken to maintain or to create health.
It is a sin to injure the health through carelessness, vanity, love of pleasure, overwork, or immoderate eating.
Fresh air, wholesome food, and proper exercise are essentials of health.
The underlying principle in maintaining health consists in the elimination from the body of effete material.
This waste material is continually being produced by oxidation and breaking down of the various tissues.
The use of water in the economy of the system is of the utmost importance.
It is the one universal solvent and the medium by which foods are rendered soluble by digestion and conveyed to the tissues to be assimilated.
It distributes the heat of the body and acts as an agent in cleansing, both externally and internally.
The skin, kidneys, and bowels eliminate waste from the system and should be kept constantly active.
The skin should be kept in health by proper bathing; the kidneys, by drinking freely of pure water; and the bowels, by the use of foods which maintain or promote activity.
Fruits or fruit juices are very helpful to most people.
Buttermilk is tonic and wholesome in its effects.
The appetite, or special craving for foods, is often nature's best indication as to what the body requires. ]Milk and milk foods are best for children. 6 .
Sudden changes of temperature should be guarded against, whether in the ball room or the kitchen, the tennis court, or the hay-field.
Death has been caused by drinking very cold water while the body was overheated from exercise.
Different kinds of clothing for the different kinds of weather should be kept at hand.
Diet according to the season.
Human beings should acquire such habits of caring for the health that all the little attentions will be given almost unconsciously; thus avoiding worry and fret.
II.
The Bath.
Reference has been made to the internal cleansing of the body by the elimination of waste products.
The external care of our earthly tabernacle must not be overlooked.
Bathing should be given frequent attention.
It is important not only as to our health but from an ethical standpoint.
The Bath is most essential.
Have you ever experienced the discomfort of sitting in public assemblies near some one who did not bathe or change underwear with sufficient frequency?
The Bath should be taken more with the idea of keeping clean than with the idea of getting clean.
The temperature of the bath should be according to the habit, desire, or need of the individual.
There is also much in the purpose for which it is taken.
Warm baths are more for cleansing, while cold baths are for purposes of stimulation. ^V little baking soda or ammonia added to the warm bath softens the water and makes it more cleansing.
Care should be taken that children or old people do not suffer from chilliness after bathing.
In such a case rubbing the skin or taking exercise should follow, to restore circulation.
A warm soda bath followed by good and gentle rubbing of body with olive oil is excellent treatment for fevered children.
Every home that can afford it should have a bathroom.
When there is no better way an end of a room with comfortable temperature may be screened off for the occasion and a wash tub may be used.
If there is no laundry tub then take a swim in the wash basin.  The Foot Bath.
A foot bath at least should be taken every day; not only for the sake of health and cleanliness, but to promote the comfort of the feet and discourage the growth of corns.  . 7  Towel, Soap, Brush and Comb.
It is well for each member of the family to have his individual towel, soap, brush and comb.
Strict sanitation requires it.
The towels may be marked with needle work or indelible ink.
When circumstances make needful a common use of towels, be sure, in case of illness, to supply the patient with individual articles.
Diseases, and particularly skin troubles, are very readily communicated by general use of towels.
Conscience and common sense are our best guides in daily life.
Suggestions III Further knowledge may be obtained from local physicians or available text-books on the subjects.
Also, members learn much from each other in discussing the subjects.
Topics might be divided and given by several members.
Time should be be reserved for general discussion after the topics have been given.
IV Questions.
How should health be valued?
Name some of the essentials of health?
What is the underlying principle in maintaining health?
What can you say of the use of water?
Methods of elimination of waste products.  Give some methods that are helpful.
Discuss bathing from standpoint given, and from your own viewpoint.
RECIPES FOR BENEFICIAL DRINKS.  Apple Water.
Take apple parings and cores (or thin sliced whole apples if preferred) and cover with boiling water.
Let stand eight or ten hours.
Drink several times a day. (Given by Madam Davenport in her "Health and Beauty" talks.)  Unfermented Grape-Juice.
Twenty pounds of Concord grapes.
Boil and put through jelly bag as for jelly.
Then take the juice and add three pounds of sugar and boil three minutes, and bottle hot, the same as fruit. (Through the courtesy of Dr.
Romania B.
Penrose.) 8 .