[Vol1 | July 1914 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Editorial Success]

EDITORIAL.
SUCCESS.
The measure of success or failure is as varied as the estimates of the persons who judge and decide.
What is success for one would be an abject failure in the eyes of another.
The successful man of business, the succeesful professional, the successful writer, or artist, is looked upon by his fellows as a shining example of what men call success, while the recipient of their envious compliments may look upon himself, or herself, as a dismal failure, or they may not.
God does not measure us in human scales.
How fortunate that this is so, for the successful of this world will rarely be the heroes of the next.
What is success?
Sisters, what do you look upon as successful achievements in life?
If I could hear your answers, I should know what manner of women you are.
Do you admire, and set up as ideals, the women in our community who occupy high offices in the Relief Society, or other organizations?
Are school teachers, to you, the embodiment of success?
Great singers, or musicians, are these your ideals of successful girls and women?
Writers, poets, painters wherein does success lie according to your judgment?
These are not idle questions I am asking.
On the contrary, they are weighed down with character-building thoughts.
Our ideals as to success are subject to change with maturity and a better comprehension of life's realities.
Who are the successful husbands?
And who are the successful wives?
Who are the successful mothers, and who are the successful daughters?
Are the successful husbands the men who have made money, who have built fine homes for their wives, who have bought automobiles, and who have taken their wives upon foreign trips?
It may be so. but it rarely is.
As a rule the successful business man has no time for his family.
He has no time or sympathy to give to his wife or his children.
What home training there may be given to the children comes entirely from the mother, or from hired help.
In my way of thinking the successful husband and father is a man of moderate means  a man who has kept his nose above the waves of debt, and who has led his family on the upward plane of spiritual rather than of material things.
We sometimes hear it said in this Church that only the rich men are put into office.
If this were true, which it is not, it would still mean that these same rich men were reared in homes of comparative poverty. 4 . where both parents had time to father and mother their children.
The children of rich men, no matter what their place or position, rarely have had any fathering given them. "Who are the successful wives?
They are not necessarily the women who have kept their houses scrupulously clean and who are the best breadmakers in the neighborhood, although both of these achievements make for home righteousness.
The successful wives are not the women who give all their time and strength and thought to their houses, or even to their children.
The successful wives are the women who learn to balance their lives so that they can give a portion of themselves, unreservedly and with loving generosity, in personal ministrations to their husbands, no matter how exacting the home cares, nor how taxing the responsibilities of the children may be.
The wife, to be successful, must preserve sufficient vitality to give generously of love, sympathy, comradeship and service to her husband, whenever he is near her.
Who are the successful mothers?
Not the women who gratify every wish and desire of their children, and who neglect every other duty and responsibility in life, except that of waiting upon children and giving way to all of their selfish exactions.
The successful mothers are the women who have cultivated their intelligence from day to day, so that it has kept pace with the development of their own children.
Mind that I say "intelligence," and not intellectuality.
For some very intelligent people are not very intellectual, and vice versa.
The successful mother has been and is the companion of her children, no matter where their own paths in life may lie.
She may or may not be a successful wife, that all depends.
Some women are naturally good wives, and some are naturally good mothers a few women are both.
But it is a mistaken idea that all the women who are married and who bear children are either successful as wives or as mothers.
What a happy thought it is, however, that to the husbands and children of the world, all wives and all mothers are ideal.
The Lord did a very gracious thing for mothers when he thus converted the men of the world and helped them to forget the shortcomings of their wives and their mothers.
Who are the successful daughters?
Not those who think of mother only when they want a favor.
Not the daughter who demands constant service from her mother, boundless sympathy and unlimited time, but who has no thought or time to return that mother's priceless service.
The successful  daughter may be bright or dull, rich or poor if she be sympathetic and tenderly unselfish to her mother, she is truly successful.
. 5 This is the accepted day and time when you and I, mothers and grandmothers, can weigh ourselves in the standards of our own ideals, and discover whether we are a success, or a failure, whatever way that decision may turn, this is the day and one when you and I can climb one step further upward on the road to success.
July