[WomansExponent | Vol25 | 1896 | December | Issue: 12 | Title: LADIES' SEMI-MONTALY MEETING. | Author: Unknown]

LADIES' SEMI-MONTALY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meet- 
ing held in the 14th ward Assembly Hall,
Saturday, Nov. 28, 1896, President M. Isa-
bella Horne presiding. Singing “O,
happy souls who pray;” prayer by Sister
Julia C. Howe; singing “Glorious things
are sung of Zion;” minutes of previous
meeting read and approved.
	President Horne felt it was good to meet
together and speak of the goodness of the
Lord, one to another. “We must be contin-
ually on the watch-tower, guard our speech
for Satan took advantage of our words, not
our thoughts, we should have good in our
hearts ‘for out of the abundance of the
heart the mouth speaketh,’ we should seek
to have the Spirit of the Lord always.”
Spoke on faith, repentance and baptism,
said when she thought of the privileges we
enjoyed she felt we are truly a blessed
people, related a vision of Brother Wood-
ruff’s wherein he saw Joseph and Hyrum
Smith, and seeing them in such a burry,
being very busy, he asked why this was.
They told him this was the last dispensa-
tion and they were getting ready for the
resurrection. Said we should use very great
wisdom in asking the Lord for spiritual
gifts especially the gift of tongues, thought
if God had a gift for us it was for a special
purpose and he would give it to us. Re-
fered to President Woodruff’s sermon on 
this subject and urged the sisters to live
their religion and prayed the Lord to bless
us all.
	Sister Leaker testified to God’s goodness
to her and felt to coincide with everything
said by President Horne, spoke of her Tem-
ple work; felt to praise the Lord. Sisters
Morris and Julia Samson bore faithful testi-
monies. Singing, "How firm a founda-
tion.”
	President Mary Ann Hyde in her re-
marks refered to the recent death of Sister
Helen Mar Whitney, also many other dear
friends who had passed away, spoke on
faith and told of a blessing given her by one
of these sisters in which she was told she
should have great faith. This had been
literally fulfilled, she and three young 
children had been healed by faith, urged
the mothers to watch carefully, made some
beautiful and encouraging remarks and
prayed the Lord to bless us, also warned
the sisters to be wise in asking for the gift 
of tongues. 
	President Horne related how she receiv-
ed the gift of tongues, also spoke of her
youngest daughter having this gift but that
they both came unsought. Refered to Sis-
ter Hyde who had this gift but always used
it in wisdom and by the Spirit of the Lord,
spoke strongly on this subject. Sister Zina
Hyde spoke on this subject.
	Sister Margaret O. Brown related an in- 
stance of the gift of speaking in tongues,
knew the Spirit of the Lord was the great- 
est comfort and blessing to her, alluded to
the goodness of the Lord and how His hand 
had been over her all the time for good, 
bore her testimony. 
	Sister J. C. Howe felt to testify to the
truth of what had been said in regard to
the gift of tongues, related an instance of 
engaging in prayer with her little family
and how she then and there received the
gift, felt this was a comforting gift; “there
is a book of remembrance kept and when the
sisters testify of the goodness of God this 
is recorded. President Horne made a few

[Column 2]
closing remarks and meeting adjourned for
two weeks.
	Singing “Satan’s power long has florish-
ed;” benediction by Sister Lydia D. Alder.
			ZINA Y. HYDE, Secretary.


[Column 1]
