[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | May | Issue: 1 | Title: SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1905 | Author: Unknown]

		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE, 1905


[Column 1]
	AN IMPORTANT EVENT.
	This number of the paper commences
the thirty-fourth volume of the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT;—just thirty-three years June
first of this year since this little messen-
ger made its advent into the world of liter-
ature, a newly-fledged offering to the
women of the Rocky Mountain region,
and a surprise to many here, yet a most
welcome token of woman's enlighten-
ment and uplifting.
	In February, 1870, the women of Utah
had the privilege of equal suffrage given
to them, and it seemed necessary that
they should have an organ of communi-
cation from one to another to express the
fulness of joy that comes with great
privileges and opportunities. There are
still, however, many among the people
of the outside world who think Mormon
women have no method by which they
express their true feelings, and are igno-
rant on all the great questions of the day
upon which other women are so well in-
formed. It would be amusing, if it were
not such a serious matter, to hear how
women of the world speak of Mormon
women, who, if they were not so blinded
by prejudice,  they could scarcely help
knowing, that every avenue is open to
the women of the Mormon Church to
advance along every and all lines of
s[-]udy and research, and of active occupa-
tions quite as much so as in the world
outside; our people travel hither and
thither, and are in constant communica-
tion by means of railroad traffic, steam,
etc., telegraph and telephone, with
cities and countries, near and afar off.
	There are probably as many books sold
in Utah and adjacent states and territo-
ries among Mormon people as those of
other churches, and even as of other
states where fewer Mormons dwell. The
Mormon women are decidedly progres-
sive, actively so in the strict sense of the
word. When the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
was first issued there were only two wo-
men's papers in the West and very few in
the East, the Woman's Journal of Bos-
ton, founded by Lucy Stone, is now in its
thirty-sixth year. It is the only one of
its kind in the East that has survived so
long, of the few that have been started
since, and it has gone through some very
hard struggles. The New North-West, pub-
lished in Portland, Oregon, was started in
1869 but has been discontinued for some
years. The Golden Dawn, in San Fran-
cisco, begun about the same time as our
little paper, only lived a few years.

[Column 2]
	Since the EXPONENT came into exist-
ence there has been one or two wo-
man's papers started in Denver, but they
only lived a brief period, we are sorry to
say. The Woman's Tribune, founded in
Washington, D. C., has struggled along
quite a number of years, and now Mrs.
Colby, the editor and proprietor, has
moved it to Portland, Oregon.
	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT was the first
paper of its kind in the Rocky Mountain
region, a fact of which our people should
be justly proud, and the sisters should
make an effort to maintain it in a way
appropriate to the great body of women
it represents.
	In the beginning of this new volume
there should be an increased interest in
making it more than ever before, the re-
pository of precious gems of history and
events in the lives and deeds of the wo-
men who have made, and are making
history every day. To do this it is essen-
tial, as in every other enterprise, to have
means, and to  be prompt in payments is
always the best method of making any
business a success.
	One sister, whose letter came today,
calls the EXPONENT  a "precious gem;"
she says, "I can hardly keep house with-
out it." If many others felt as she does,
there would be a great change in its ac-
tual appearance and value. Let us hope
for this material benefit through a larg-
er subscription list and a greater inter-
est in its increase of numbers through
the efforts of the Relief Society of-
ficers, as well as the agents, and to
those who have talent to write we wish
to say, cultivate that gift, that you may
use it for the good of hundreds who
may read your articles, and also that you
may help produce a class of reading that
the Latter-day may with safety
and profit put into the hands of the pub-
lic, that will represent them truthfully.
We as a people, and as women, ought to
write better than other people, and not
to be satisfied to do inferior work. To be
sure, we now and then have something
very creditable, but we are not doing the
sort of literary work, that is, our
young women are not quite up to the
high standard in this respect that has
really been expected of them.
	In the past we have talked a great
deal about the material that the lives
and experiences of the Saints would af-
ford to writers, and now it seems these
abundant facts and ideals should be em-
bodied in poems, essays and stories, that
would reflect lustre upon such incidents
as we know could be made memorable
in history. Bishop Whitney has in his
Epic, "Elias," given something so sub-
limely grand to Mormon literature that
it will go down the ages as a masterpiece,
and surely there are others who have
high ideals of poetry and song, and
though they may not equal his excellence
either in verse or history, that is no rea-
son they should not make the effort to
write, and do good, even excellent work.


Miss Mary L. Galpin has been selected
by the Los Angeles (Cal.)  Chamber of
Commerce to represent it at the Lewis
and Clark Exposition at Portland. She
will have charge of the exhibit, and will
give talks on Los Angeles and explain the
country and climate and the advantages
it offers to visitors and settlers.


