[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | May | Issue: 1 | Title: R. S. REPORTS. | Author: Unknown]

		R. S. REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of 35th conference of the Re-
lief Society of Uintah Stake of Zion, held
at Naples Ward, May 30, 1905. Presi-
dent Sarah M. Colton presiding.
	Sister Emma Woodruff spoke of the
labors of teachers in the Relief Society
and the responsibilities that rest upon
them; also of evil speaking one toward
the other, and of honoring the Priesthood.
She referred to the young, especially the
young men that are sent on missions,
that they should be taught to trust in the
Lord, and urged the parents not to neg-
lect their children in sending them to
Sunday School, Religion Class and Prim-
ary, and in teaching them to pay their
tithes and offerings and to observe the
Sabbath day.
	Sister Hattie Harker felt thankful in
having such a beautiful place to meet in.
Spoke of the duties of the sisters in con-
nection with the brethren. Referred to
the example of the Savior, thought we
should guard the morals of our young
people and be guarded against all evil
surroundings; gave instructions to the
secretaries in their duties.
	The choir sang. Conference adjourned
until 2 p. m. Benediction by Patriarch
Nelson Merkley.
	Afternoon session. President Sarah
M. Colton presiding.
	An essay on "Neglect of Duty" by May
Bartlett, was given. Sister Mary J. Har-
der reported Glines Ward and Sister
America Orser, Jensen Ward, both these
wards are doing good work. Mountain
Dell ward not reported.
	President Bennion, Sister Annie K.
Bartlett, Sister Hattie Harker, Sister
Emma Woodruff, all spoke words of en-
couragement to all present. President
Colton made a few closing remarks and
thanked all for the services they had ren-
dered.
	The next conference will be held at
Jensen. Singing. Conference adjourned
for three months. Benediction by Coun-
selor R. S. Collett.
	PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Sec'y.
		LIBERTY STAXE.
	The semi-annual conference of the
Relief Society of the Liberty Stake of
Zion convened June 8, 1905. In the Sec-
ond Ward meeting house, President An-
nie S. Musser presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing "We thank
thee, O God, for a prophet." Prayer by
Sister Mary Mair, followed by a solo by

[Column 2]
Sister Eva James. Roll called, each ward
responding. Minutes of previous confer-
ence read and accepted, also the statisti-
cal and financial report for the year 1904.
	President Musser welcomed the sisters,
and spoke a few words of encourage-
ment. Favorable reports were given by
Presidents Squires, Anderson, Maycock,
and Chamberlain, of the First, Second,
Third, and Eighth wards respectively.
	Miss Shipp rendered the solo, "The
Lord is my light."
	President Musser introduced Sisters
Emma Carter, Elizabeth Higgingbotham
and Martha Nowlan, who had been ap-
pointed as stake missionaries; each ex-
pressed her desire to perform the duties
required of her, and keep the command-
ments of God.
	Counselor Z. V. Eardley said a few
words, felt that it was truly good to be a
Saint, and that there was work for all to
do.
	Adjourned until 2 o'clock by singing
"Our God, we raise to Thee," etc.
	Benediction by Sister Grace Anderson.
	Afternoon session, 2 o'clock.—Com-
menced by singing "O say what is truth,"
etc. Prayer by Counselor Philip S. May-
cock. Singing, "Redeemer of Israel."
Minutes of the afternoon session of the
December conference was read and ac-
cepted. Counselor Eardley presented
the names of the General Board, also
names of the Stake Board, and all were
unanimously sustained.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith said
she was the only one remaining who was
present at the organization of the Relief
Society; related many incidents in the
early history of the Church, and expressed
her great pleasure in assisting the poor.
Counselor Hyde spoke of the great and
good work performed in the temple for
the redemption of the dead.
	Sister Hull favored us with the solo en-
titled "Resignation."
	Sister Jennings spoke of the progres-
sion of the Savior, saying He had set the
example, and for us to follow in His foot-
steps and continue in the good work.
Asked the mothers to keep a watchful eye
on the daughters of Zion, organize class-
es to instruct and entertain them, shield
them from outside influence, also to in-
struct them in the domestic side of life.
	President Musser desired that the sis-
ters of the Relief Society devote one day
a month to temple work for the poor.
	President Hugh J. Cannon felt that the
Relief Society had a great work to per-
form; would render us assistance and en-
couraged us to do all the good we could.
	Counselor Philip S. Maycock said our
work should make us all pure, noble,
charitable, and everything that is lovely;
we should all follow in the footsteps of the
Savior.
	Counselor Arnold H. Schulthess felt
well repaid for attending our conference;
assured us our work was fully appreciated;
thought we should strive to add continu-
ally to our good works.
	Sister Hull favored us with another
beautiful solo.
	President Musser thanked all who had
helped to make our conference a success.
Adjourned for six months by singing
the Doxology.
	Benediction by Counselor A. H. Schul-
thess.
