[WomansExponent | Vol34 | 1905 | May | Issue: 1 | Title: WEBER STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

			WEBER STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference
of the Relief Society of the Weber Stake
of Zion, held at the Relief Society Hall
Ogden, the 6th day of June, 1905.
	Conference convened at ten o'clock a.
m., President Jane S. Richards presiding.
Singing: "Let Us Pray, Gladly Pray."
Prayer by Bishop Robert McQuarrie.
Singing: "We Thank Thee, O God, for
a Prophet." Minutes of the March Con-
ference were read and approved. Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards addressed the Con-
ference, and made a few opening remarks,
and wished that we had more room, as
the attendance was so large. Sister
Richards explained that the reason why
the Conference was held at this time in-
stead of on Thursday, June 8th (the usual
time) was because President Joseph F.
Smith had been invited to attend the
Conference and could not be present at
any other time than today. A letter from
President Smith, accepting the invitation
to attend this Conference, was read.
	Brother P. G. Taylor addressed the
Conference; felt thankful to meet with
the sisters of the Relief Society of the
Weber Stake of Zion; felt it an honor to
meet with the Latter-day Saints; had
been associated with the Relief Society
of the Weber Stake for many years, and
loved all, and his heart went out to all;
spoke of his long acquaintance with and
friendship for Sister Richards, and of the
many years spent by her in the Relief
Society cause; said it was the duty of the
members of the Relief Society to support
her in her position; mentioned his early
membership in the Church, and his ac-
quaintance with the Prophet Joseph, and
closed his remarks by bearing a faithful
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, and
asked the blessings of the Lord upon all.
	Sister Richards was pleased to see so
many present; spoke about the Nickel
Fund, and wished this to be kept up, as
the Relief Society is in need of funds with
which to purchase chairs; referred to the
incidents mentioned by Brother P. G.
Taylor, bore testimony to the truth of his
remarks, and said she would like to have
the brethren attend the ward meetings of
the Relief Society as well as the Con-
ferences.
	Counselor Harriet C. Brown was pleased
to see so many brethren present; was
thankful to be able to be present herself
and to see Sister Richards with us, and
said Counselor Shurtliff would not be
able to be present to-day, and closed her
remarks by thanking the Lord for His
many blessings to her.
	Sister Richards introduced Brother
John W. Rigdon, a son of Sidney Rigdon,
who addressed the Conference; he said
he was a late member of the Church,
having joined only last October, but had
had a knowledge of this Church since
the beginning; he related his early life
with the Church, and also related a con-
versation with his father as to the divine
authenticity of the Book of Mormon, and
his father's testimony in regard to the
same, stating that his father's enemies
had made the charge that the Book of
Mormon had been written by him; and
his father declared to him that he had
never seen the book until it was delivered
to him by Parley P. Pratt and two others.


[Column 1]
This conversation occured at a time
when his father did not expect to live
long, and shortly before his death and in
the presence of his wife and daughter;
said that he had been baptized when nine
years of age, but had not been confirmed
a member of the Church at that time,
and consequently did not become a
member until he recently joined the
Church; said he would be 75 years of age
within a few days, and he wished to pass
the remainder of his days as a member of
the Church.
	Sister Adaline Belnap, of Hooper, was
pleased to bear her testimony; said she
was baptized in Nauvoo, and knew
Brother John W. Rigdon there, and pray-
ed that he would remain faithful to the
end; spoke of the early days of the
Church and of the trials of those days,
and of her acquaintance with the Prophet
Joseph, and prayed that we would all be
faithful to the end.
	President C. F. Middleton was pleased
to meet with the sisters in Conference
capacity, and was pleased to hear the
testimony of Brother John W. Rigdon;
said his remarks had reminded him of a
great many incidents in his own life that
had happened during the time of the raid
on the Saints in the city where he lived;
said he had been in the Church all his
life, and was thankful to have had that
privilege; related early incidents of the
Church, and bore a faithful testimony;
spoke of the great blessing that the Re-
lief Society is to the bishops; spoke of
how the Lord had blessed Sister Richards
in her position, and of the great good she
had accomplished; said he knew her
noble husband and honored his name, and
also honored all noble men and women;
he knew Joseph Smith to be a prophet of
God, and also knew that our present
President, Joseph F. Smith, is a prophet
of God, and said that we should uphold
and sustain him in his position, and ex-
horted all to sustain the leaders of all the
auxiliary organizations in the Church, and
asked the blessings of the Lord upon all.
	Brother Sanford Bingham was pleased
to have heard the testimonies borne, and
was acquainted with the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and bore a faithful testimony to
the truth of the Gospel; was glad to see
so many present, and was acquainted
with Brother John W. Rigdon in the
early days, and closed his remarks by
asking the Lord to bless all.
	Brother Walter W. Crane stated that
he believed the testimonies which he had
heard, and said he knew the Gospel to be
true; had known all the presidents of the
Church except the Prophet Joseph; had
faith and confidence in our President to-
day, and had faith that he would lead this
people aright.
	Sister Josephine Farr bore a faithful
testimony to the truth of the Gospel, and
was thankful to have had parents who
had taught her these things, and prayed
to be faithful to the end.
	Sister Ruthinda Moench, of Logan, ad-
dressed the Conference; was grateful to
be able to meet with her old friends, ac-
quaintances and workers in the Relief
Society; she rejoiced in the Gospel, and
felt well to see that Sister Richards and
others were able to do their duty; spoke
of a dream which she had heard related,
and closed her remarks by asking the
blessings of the Lord upon all.
	Sister Lucretia Farr was thankful to

[Column 2]
have heard the good instructions that had
been given; was thankful for the en-
couragement received, and felt like con-
tinuing on in the work; reported the
Third Ward of Ogden as being in a good
condition, and asked the Lord to bless
all.
	At this time President Joseph F. Smith,
Apostle John Henry Smith, Brother C.
C. Richards, Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith,
Josephine R. West, Emily S. Richards,
Emmeline B. Wells, Edna F. Smith,
Sister Dusenberry and others entered the
building, the audience singing in the
meantime "Our God, we raise to Thee."
	Sister Richards said that we had the
pleasure of having President Joseph F.
Smith and others with us, the party hav-
ing just arrived, and she thought that, al-
though it was nearly noon, the people
would be glad to hear a few words from
President Smith.
	President Smith's remarks will appear
in the July number.
	Sister Richards: This is Sister Bath-
sheba Smith, President over the Relief
Society in all the world and as I thought
there might be some one of you who
could not be here this afternoon, I wish
her to say a few words.
	Sister Bathsheba Smith: "She knew
very well that I wouldn't speak very long;
I am not in the habit of it. But I greet
you with a happy greeting, and I am real
pleased to meet with you. I know you
are good and faithful and true. Sister
Richards has watched over you so long
that I know you are good, and I feel to
bless you, and to ask the Lord to bless
you, and give you wisdom, knowledge
and understanding, and give you faith in
the Gospel and in each other, and may
you be united in all the things you under-
take to do, and the Lord will bless you
and prosper you in your labors, and give
you faith for the sick and the afflicted and
give you means for the poor and the
needy, that you may fill up your days in
righteousness and in doing good--all these
presidents and their assistants in the Re-
lief Society in this stake. I pray the Lord
to bless you, and give you great wisdom,
and knowledge to carry on your work in
an acceptable manner before the Lord.
May every blessing which your hearts de-
sire in righteousness be yours. I ask it
in the name of Jesus. Amen."
	Singing: "Guide Us, O Thou Great
Jehovah." Benediction by Brother Robert
Gale. Recess was then taken until the
afternoon.
	At 1:40 o'clock p. m. the conference
reconvened, President Jane S. Richards
presiding.
	Singing, "High on the moantain tops."
	Prayer.
	Singing, "Come, O Thou King of
kings."
	Sister Richards: My dear sisters, I am
very glad to think that we have those
with us this afternoon to speak to you
that we have: President Smith and John
Henry and some others, and Sister Smith,
Sister Wells and Sister Dusenberry. We
don't have them every time, and I hope
that the congregation will keep as kind of
quiet as you can in your crowded condi-
tion. I am kind of sorry that there isn't
a little bit more room, seeing there are so
many of us, and the babies are so good
that I believe they will all go to sleep,
and I don't believe they will cry--I am
not going to think so, anyhow--and I

[Column 3]
think we will have a nice afternoon. We
will now hear from Sister Dusenberry.
	Sister Dusenberry:--I feel a little bit
out of place, because I know that you
have assembled to hear President Smith,
and Apostle John Henry Smith and our
Aunt Bathsheba and Sister Wells, and I
feel that they have so many more years
of experience than I have, and that
they can instruct you, and say so many
better things than I can say, that it
is almost too bad to take up your time.
However, I shall not speak but just a
few moments. I want to congratulate
you this afternoon on the beautiful hall
you have, and as I sat here a few moments
this morning I thought to myself, how
many opportunities we sisters have. and
the brothers also, but especially the sis-
ters, and especially those who are partic-
ularly interested in the Relief Society. I
remember just a little while ago there
was a lady, one of the sisters, came to
me, and she said, "I have been called
out so many times," she said, "I am al-
most worn out. I have been sitting up
with an old lady who has been very ill
for some time," and she had been up
with her for some time, and the lady had
just passed away, and there was a great
many things to do; and she said, "I am
so tired," and I said, "Yes, you are; but,"
I said, "you must also realize that you
have just passed through one of the op-
portunities of your life, because, no mat-
ter what you did for that sister--no mat-
ter how kind you were to her--no matter
how many hours you might have sacri-
ficed of your time for her, you were de-
veloping at the time that you were doing
it, and she was doing far more for you
than you could ever hope to do for her."
As I look in the faces of the Relief Soci-
ety sisters I can always see that certain
humility, that cetain sisterly love, that
always makes me feel good; and I can
always see that each sister was dictated
constantly by her conscience, and con-
science is nothing more nor less than the
Sprit of the Lord prompting us at all
times to do the right thing.
	It was only just this morning that I
picked up a little paper, and in this paper
there was a little story of a father who
had had some dispute over some land,
and the other man who claimed the land
had planted it in vegetables and things,
and the man said, "Well, if I can't get
the land, I am going to have that that
grows on it." So when the harvest was
ready, he took his boy there, and he said,
"I will climb the fence and look all
around," and he said, "If I don't see any-
one looking, you come in, and we will
take what is in the garden." The father
got in there, and he looked in front of
him, and to the right of him and to the
left of him, and all around, and he turned
to the boy and he says, "There is no one
looking. And the boy looked to his 
father, and he said. "Father, you have 
forgotten to look up." It was the con-
science of the boy that was speaking; it
was the Spirit of the Lord that was
speaking to the boy, and I thought to
myself, "Therein lies an example for us
all." No matter what little wrong thing
we attempt to do, if we can always keep
in our minds and in our hearts the spirit
of looking up, always looking up. I am
sure if we can follow this we will always
be on the right track.
	As I end, there is a little quotation


[Column 1]
comes to my mind, which has helped me
in my life, and I think it will help you,
and it is a little quotation from Shakes-
peare, wherein he says, “Above all, to
thine own self be true; and it must follow
as the night does the day that thou canst
not then be false to any man.”
	I hope and pray that the Lord will
bless you all, that you may work togeth-
er in harmony, and support your leader,
and the leaders of the Church, and Aunt
Bathsheba—for she needs your support
and your prayers constantly. She prays
for you, she is constantly thinking and
working for you, and I think you are doing
the same for her. May God bless you.
Amen.
	Apostle John Henry Smith: My dear
sisters, I regret that I did not have the
privilege of hearing all of the remarks
that were made this forenoon by the
brethren and sisters who have spoken to
you. It would have given us some ideas
as to the spirit, in a greater degree, at
least, that exists in your meeting in ful-
fillment of the great duties and responsi-
bilities that rest upon you. I scarcely
anticipated this privilege this morning at
half past seven o’clock, but I am pleased
to be here, and was pleased to hear the
remarks that were made by President
Smith this morning, and your president,
and their words of commendation, and in
the remarks that have been made by Sis-
ter Smoot—or Sister Dusenberry, rather,
—in addressing you for a few moments
this afternoon.
	I know of no body of people in this
world to whom greater praise is due than
the ladies who form the Relief Society
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints. The membership of that or-
ganization is made up of ladies whose
hearts have been given to the service of
the Master. It is true in all parts of the
world that the ladies are the better ele-
ment of society. The churches of the
world would soon be closed if the relig-
ious sentiment and feeling of the ladies
should abate, and they stop going to
church for about three months. But
among our sisters in all the world there
are none whose opportunities have been
so great, as have the opportunities of the
sistership of the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter-day Saints. I am not here to
say that you are absolutely better than
your sisters among other peoples and
other religious denominations; but I am
here to say that no more heroic body of
women have ever breathed the breath of
life, than the ladies who compose the
membership of this organization that our
Father has established in these latter-
days. When we think of the conditions
that have been attendant upon your lives,
gathering as your have done from many
lands and from many climes, many of you
reared under different circumstances with
peculiar religious training, your accept-
ance of the truth of the latter-day work,
your being brought together from the
ends of the earth and instructed and
molded under the direction of the proph-
ets of this latter-day dispensation, and
the heroism that has been shown in your
lives, in the fulfillment of the duties and
responsibilities that have fallen to your
lot, commends you to every thinking man
and woman who has noted your labors,
and who has noted in any degreee the good
that has been accomplished by the sacri-
fices (if we can call them sacrifices) that

[Column 2]
you have undergone in the fulfillment of
the destiny that our Father has marked
out for His children in this day. Scarce-
ly a home among the Latter-day Saints
but what has had its bread winner taken
from there and sent into the world to
preach the Gospel, and mother has been
left with her little family to make her way
as best she could, providing for their nec-
essities. and aiding her companion in the 
fnlfillment of the obligation that he
was sent to discharge in the world. Our
sympathies sometimes have gone out in
large degree to the Elders in their fields
preaching the Gospel, but the Elders in
fulfillment of their ministry, in great
measure have passed through most pleas-
urable scenes, in the changing sights, in
the variety of circumstances that have
surrounded them, and in the considera-
tion they have received; while a stalwart
and true wife at the fireside at home,
offering her prayers in his interest, divid-
ing the results of her handiwork with
him, in seeking to provide him some
clothes and a little means to help him up-
on his way, and in the guardianship of her
offspring, and in the effort to impress up-
on their minds the dignity of the work in
which their father was engaged; the na-
ture of the obligation that rested upon
her, with him in seeing to it that, having
been warned of the re-establishment of
the Gospel it become their sacred duty to
warn their kinspeople, their brothers and
their sisters, and their old-time neighbors
and friends perchance, or to any of our
Father's children to whom the glad tid-
ings of great joy had not yet been carried.
When we remember these conditions,
and go into these homes, and when we
meet with you and mingle with you upon
occasions of this character, and remem-
ber the nature of the work that has fallen
to your lot, it may be well said of you, as
it has been said by many a husband
speaking of his wife, or speaking of his
neighbor's wife, or speaking of the friends
and sisters of a district in which he lived,
there are none better; there are none
nobler; there are none truer, molded in
the likeness and image of Mother Eve,
than the homes over which these wives
have presided, whose hearts were given
to their Maker, who have been devoted to
the accomplishment of the divine pur-
poses, the uplifting of their own children
and implanting within them laudable and
proper ambitions and caring in the midst 
of these efforts for those unfortunate ones
that are found in every community, who
need the sisterly and motherly care of
some devoted friend in the midst of their
distresses. 
	Standing before over three thousand
people in the city of El Paso last fall, it
was my privivilege to speak to that body
of people, coming from every part of the
country, and my brethren, some of them;
and upon that occasion I remarked to
those people that no more heroic people
ever breathed the breath of life than the
wives and mothers of the Latter-day
Saints; true in every place; earnest, de-
voted, unyielding, fixed in the establish-
ment of their faith; they had stood by
their homes and protected and preserved
them while their helpmates were away in
the world declaring the principles of the
Gospel, seeking to extend that truth
which was dear to them all.
	I believe this is absolutely true. While
I would not flatter you, or be guilty of

[Column 3]
offering you flattering words, I believe
these are the words of truth; that when
the history of this world shall be written
and the history of mankind shall be put
upon the sacred page upon which the fu-
ture races may look, that the efforts that
have been made in the interests of the
extension of the principles of this latter-
day Gospel, showing the position occu-
pied by our ladies, will be one of the
brightest and best upon the sacred pages
of history. How few, when we think of
it, wben we think of the conditions that
have surrounded them, have failed in the 
fulfillment of that mission! I need not go
away to any other home than to my own
home to bring up in pleasing remem-
brance the conditions of the past, for in
our home we were orphans, so far as
fathers were concerned,, in large degree,
the father ever absent, ever the public
servant, ever in the discharge of a pub-
lic duty: but around the fireside of those
homes were mothers, brave, true, heroic
no mark of infamy has ever attached to
one of their sacred names; but in the
fulfillment of the part that they had ac-
cepted, ministering in the interest and
well-being of the households to which
they belonged, they have remained in
the fulfillment, true and devoted in the
enjoyment of the duties that were im-
posed upon them. And while I speak
thus of my own home and its experienc-
es, as I look around upon the experiences
of others, and know the positions in which
the families of so many were placed, the
trying circumstances that surrounded
them, the efforts so noble and so true
that were made to aid their fellows, to
share their scanty meals, to share their
scanty clothes, to share the light amount
of fuel that was brought into the home,
to help that home so that there should be
no suffering, and that none should receive
hurt, but that all should be blessed and
 comforted, and that these meagre sup-
plies should be eked out to accomplish
the best possible results to all concerned.
How good the Master has been to us!
How good he has been to these heroic
women, these mothers. In the midst of
their trying situations and limited supplies
they made the best efforts possible that
their children should be men and wom-
en of the better mold, loving their
country, but above all loving their God,
and the propositions involved in the
sacred message that He had entrusted to
His servant in the day and age in which
we live. True to husbands? Yes. True
to wives? Yes. True to children? Yes.
True to the unfortunate and feeble? Yes.
True to those men that have been sel-
ected, and the women also who have
been selected to administer in the dis-
charge of the obligations of counselors
and advisers. True to the ones who are
upon the picket lines of the world, de-
claring the message of glad tidings to the
children of men. True to every element
of right, earnest, devoted, brave, heroic,
the mission that they have performed
will stand written in the Lamb's Book of
Life, as a witness to God that His sons
 and His daughters who received this mes-
sage of glad tidings from our father and
from His holy Son, through the adminis-
trations of His prophet, were not select-
ed unwisely, unwittingly, but they were
selected for their merit, for their heroic
courage, for their devotion, and love of
everything that was good and pure.


My sisters, I commend you for your
past labors, and trust that the decliaing
days of your life shall be the best of your
experience; that your voice for the future
shall be heard in the way of admonition,
and in the effort to perform and establish
in the souls of the younger generation
around the same heroic courage, the same
fixedness of purpose, the same determin-
ation that there shall be no failure so far
as your descendants are concerned. No
prouder thought can well up in the heart,
I am satisfied, of father and mother, than
the fact that my son and my daughter
has been a witness for this truth, that
was sacred to me in my boyhood and my
girlhood, and sent me from Scandinavia
or from Germany, or from Italy, or from
France, or that sent me from England or
Ireland, or Wales or Scotland, or that
gathered me from the islands of the sea,
from the native races of those lands, and
beneath the fostering care of that estab-
lished organization that our Father sent
into the world to regenerate mankind,
that my children may be made witnesees
for that truth and be as heroic in the
offerings they may make in its interests
a[-] was the girl who left father and
mother to gather to this mountain home,
that she might become indeed the savior
of her race, or that boy who, abandoning
the fireside and the circle in which he
moved, should be placed in the position
in future time that his race should through
him receive the administration of the or-
dinance of God's house, and the doorway
be opened to them, that by and by when
the names were counted up they would be
found among them, he having laid the
foundation stones upon which his race
were compelled to build.
	My sisters and my brothers, words of
mine cannot give to you the feelings that
exist in my heart as I stand before you
today.	I have nothing but blessings for
the mother's of Israel, for the women
whose hearts are big enough and broad
enough not only to feed her own little
family circle, but so full of good and just-
ice and right that she is willing and ready
to utilize that which comes to her for the
comfort and well-being of some less for-
tunate being.	May the spirit of this work
ever remain with you; may the heroic
principles involved in it guide your lives.
May your children and your children's
children, as they come and go, call you
blessed.	I speak of you as the best and
noblest that can be found in the world,
and I hope that your children will stand
before the peoples of the world in the
future, as I feel that I can stand before
the people of the world today, and say
"The best man I ever knew was my
own father; the best women I ever knew
were my father's own wives."		I lived
with all of them, for I was a waif in
their midst.	God knows that they were
genuine women of worth, fulfilling their
missions, undergoing their trials and car-
rying their responsibilities with heroic
courage.	And while I speak thus of them
I would have your sons and your daugh-
ters speak of you as father and mothers
with the same feeling and the same senti-
ment that exists in my own breast in re-
gard to their record, for I would have the
sons and daughters of Zion recognize the
pure spirit of that heroic body of women
whose hearts given to God, stood by the
home, and held the home sacred, while
their associates, their partners in life,

[Column 2]
were declaring this message of glad tid-
ings to the world, sending forth that mes-
sage, that the Gospel should be preached
in every land, in every clime, to every
nation, to every kindred, to every tongue,
to every people.
	When we shall see the results of these
ministrations, as husbands and wives,
with our children encircling us, shall the
husband say "This was my work;" or
shall the wife say "This was my work;"
or will we say with each other, "This
was our work; hand in hand in the midst
of tribulation we met the obligations
which God placed upon our shoulders,
and we have fulfilled our part?" and side
by side in the eternities I trust that we
will be true and faithful and just to each
other.
	That the Lord may bless you, Sister
Richards, bless you good sisters who are
ministering in this work, bless the grand
old lady who stands at the head of this
work, in connection with her associates,
who are ministering to the accomplish-
ment of the same great purpose; and
bless all the Saints, the daughters, the
fathers and the mothers that have had
part in the accomplishment of this work,
that their names may be indeed regis-
tered in the Lamb's Book of Life, and
when the book shall be opened it shall
there be enumerated "This man fulfilled
his destiny," and this woman registered
her name in the Lamb's Book of Life,
having fulfilled her part to the best of
her ability; this boy and this girl were
their devoted children, true to them in
the midst of their trials and tribulations,
and in their old age honored and blessed
them for their ministrations." That Jus-
tice and peace and love may abound
among you, and that joy may ever be
yours, and that your names may be in-
deed registered in that Lamb's Book of
Life is my prayer, in the name of Jesus.
Amen.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith then ad-
dressed the conference as follows: My
dear brothers and sisters—I have enjoyed
myself very much at this meeting. I
liked very much what the brethren said,
and I do not expect to say very much to
you, or speak very loud, I don't think I
can make half of you hear. I have not
practiced speaking half as much as I
have doing the work, and John Henry
has been telling you about what we used
to do. I have been a good worker, but
I have never practiced speaking very
much, and I haven't got a voice to reach
you all, I am afraid.
	I don't know where to begin, hardly,
but I believe I will begin with John
Henry's father coming and visiting us as
a missionary in Virginia, and I believed
his testimony; I believed what he said
about Joseph the Prophet, his cous-
in, and I have never changed my mind
in, and I have never changed my mind
yet; and it has been strengthened many
times in various ways. I know that Jo-
seph was a true prophet, and I knew it
before I ever saw him. The Lord made
manifest unto me that I knew he was a
true prophet, and that the Book of Mor-
mon was true, and that the Lord had
through Joseph Smith restored the Gos-
pel in its purity, and that has helped me
all my days. John Henry was talking
about sitting around the fireside. Some-
times we didn't have very much fire, but
a little ashes, perhaps. But I knew the
Gospel was true, and I knew that my

[Column 3]
husband was a true servant of the Lord;
and when he has been on missions. or
whatever he had to do, it was all right if
I could save a little something for him to
eat when he returned home, why that
was my pleasure, and my children the
same way, and some of the time would
have plenty, but I never had more than
I have now. I have plenty to eat, and
friends and home, and I am happy in my
labors, but I like to work in the temple
—that seems to be my work. I had my
endowments when the Prophet Joseph
was alive, because I was George A.
Smith's wife. and he was one of the
twelve apostles; and there was just the
Presidency of the Church and the twelve
apostles, the presiding bishops and a few
that received their endowments while
the Prophet Joseph was living, or else we
wouldn't know anything about it, or
what the temples were for. I was in the
Nauvoo temple from the first day to the
last, nearly every day, as long as we
worked there; and I have been in the
Endowment House about seventeen
years, working, and other places; the
Manti and Logan temples I have worked
in. and now I have been in the Salt Lake
temple twelve years—I have scarcely
missed a day. I can say that today I ran
away from my work, but it is baptism
day, and I could arrange that pretty well
so that the record will show all right.
But I love the temple work, I love the
work for the dead.
	Brother William Taylor was talking to
me a little while ago about Joseph the
Prophet being with his father, hiding up,
just out of Nauvoo; and he said that they
would have breakfast, go out into the
woods, where they would stay almost all
day; and while they were out there one
day, he had a revelation on baptism for
the dead, and the work in the temple,
and when he was telling it to me he said,
"I feel it now—that, sacred, holy spirit."
And I would urge you sisters to work in
the temple as much as you can for your
dead, and I am sure you will never be
sorry for it. Never mind about riches
and dress and the grand things of the
earth, but try your best to do for your
dead. Teach your children to love the
Gospel—your sons and your daughters—
so that they can have a testimony for
themselves; every sould that is honest
in heart may receive a testimony that
they cannot deny.
	I was just reading yesterday some of
the teachings of the Prophet Joseph to
the Relief Society, and to the presi-
dent and counselors, what they had to
say to the sick and poor, and about them,
and those that were wayward. It was
not only to preach to them and provide
for their wants, but they must know for
themselves that Mormonism was true and
love it.
	I had the good fortune to be at the or-
ganization of the Relief Society. There
was only eighteen present, and I have
the records which Sister Eliza Snow kept
of those meetings; and they are all gone
but myself—every name that is there is
gone; and I don't know what I am left
for, but some good, I believe. At any
rate, I pray God for health and strength
to help my sisters, and encourage them
to go on and perform their labors as the
Prophet talked to us, to save our souls,
and looking up the poor and the needy,
and fill up our days in usefulness, and not


be afraid that we are doing more than our
share of anything, as the Prophet Joseph
said was the way to do. I am anxious to
do my part, and a good share—good part
—so that no one can say, "You are in-
different, and I have to work and wait on
you." I don't think that will be said about
me. At any rate I hope it won't, for it
won't be true.
	Now I know I am not interesting you
here, and I don't want to take up the
time, because the President and some
of the sisters want to talk to you, or we
want them to, and the time is rather
precious. As soon as it is past, we will
break up and go away; but bear this in
mind: that our religion is true, and our
leaders are true, and be true to them, for
what is so nice as union and love? In
this way I started in the society—union
and love. You never need be afraid you
are doing more than your part, but do all
you can, and receive the blessings of the
Lord for your diligence and faithfulness,
and He will reward you.
	Now I think I have said plenty, and I
know you can't hear—the children make
a little noise. I pray the Lord to bless
you all, and make you glad you have
been here today, and fill your heart with
joy and love continually, with patience
and endurance, to love the sick and the
afflicted, the cast down and distressed,
and at last bring you safe in the celestial
kingdom, is my prayer, in the name of
Jesus. Amen.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells then ad-
dressed the conference.
(To be continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
