Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1889 "For tHE Ricuts OF THE WoMEN oF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN oF ALL Nations" One fault finding person in a family can make a home so miserable, that its members are glad to go abroad to the neighbors to seek that comfort which is denied them by their NOTICE: Dr. Hughes' Training School for Nurses will open its Second Term October ls, 1889, at her residence on First West Street. The Proposed summer term will be postponed on account of the heat. Students desiring to enter should apply as early as possible as the usual number of the class is now nearly complete. MEMORY OF THE SEA In the midnight hour, a memory Swept like music o'er my soul As I stood in silent reverie, Where the surging billows roll;— Minor music, sad and sorrowing, Full of trembling, full of tears, Ever like the ocean's murmuring, Bringing back the tide of years, Telling of the long forgotten In the cycles of the past, Of the nations crushed and broken In the world's great holocaust. —E. B. W. PLEASANT GROVE: Special meeting at the meeting house May 20, 1889, President E. Brown presiding. President John:— "There are many subjects we could speak upon. We live in an important time, and it requires us to be prayerful and diligent TIME OF CHANGES: Many practical lessons of faith and repentance have been taught this people in their journeyings, wanderings, and times of severe trial, and they assuredly know that there lo \ c (x < aw VK. Y Py a Bd Fae: * No q a. ZA a ee OLIVE WOOLLEY BURT, wellknown Utah writer, and frequent contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has received word from Bobbs-Merrill Company, her publishers, that her interesting and instructive book for children, Luther Burbank, Boy Wizard, has been translated into Japanese and German and is being distributed in these countries. 'The same company is bringing out her book Prince of the Ranchi, the Story of a Collie, in August. The locale is the Thousand Peaks ranch of Mrs. Adele Cannon Howells (President of the Primary Association) on the upper Weber River, Utah. N spite of being blind since infancy, Almeda Adams, eightythree years old, of Cleveland, Ohio, has conducted choirs, taught music, written operettas, books, and magazine articles, and has kept house for herself, living alone. In countless ways she has helped the underprivileged. She says that to help others, "No one needs eyesight, just insight." OVIET women are still forbidden to leave Russia to live in other countries with their foreign husbands, the excuse being that they would be "exploited as kitchen slaves." Who is supposed to do the