Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon housework in a communistic society? Jew se women are doing a splendid work of regeneration among their young girls in foreign countries, by establishing homes where various types of training are afforded and subsequent employment is found for them. The homes provide a democratic atmosphere and an interesting social life. The entrants are selected by committees of women doctors, psychiatrists, business women, and social workers. Many of the girls were in wartime concentration camps. BLIZABETH CANNON PORTER McCRIMMON, formerly of Salt Lake City, now of Los Angeles, was honored guest at a luncheon of the Circulo Hispano-Americano in San Francisco, during Pan-American Week. Mrs. McCrnmmon is the author of Cortez the Conqueror, and after the luncheon, her book was reviewed by a well-known critic, and highly praised by the president of the club. N Denning, Arkansas, a slate of all women defeated an all-male ticket at the municipal election in April. For seven years this small town has elected all women officials. Page 453 C— EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 36 JULY 1949 She lew Frontier ORE than a hundred years have passed since the vanguard of the Latter-day Saints first entered the wide and lonely valley between the Wasatch Mountains and the Salt Sea. They were pioneers to a land of promise and theirs was the task of subduing the arid Jand and of building edifices of faith and courage and erecting and sustaining the more lofty temples of the spirit. Our forefathers on that long journey to Zion were accustomed to sorrow and disappointment. Their campfire thoughts and their hopes and dreams along the trail were a weaving of grief for those whom they had left behind and a surge of hopeful beckoning into the unknown land. Their old homes had disappeared forever on the eastern horizon and they looked toward the West as pilgrims seeking "the ramparts of the rocks" for their protection. President Brigham Young, expressed his thoughts of the valleys in prophetic words: God will temper the climate, and we shall build a city and a temple to the Most High God in this place. We will extend our settlements to the east and west, to the north and to the south, and we will build towns and cities by the hundreds, and thousands of the saints will gather in from the nations of the earth. This will become the great highway of the nations. Much of the conquest of the land has been completed, in the home Page 454 valleys and even in the far-off places. There are few unknown regions to beckon the pioneers of today. Our generation faces a new fromier that requires an even more elusive accomplishment. To us and to our children have been given the task and the duty of retaining in its strength and purity the gospel heritage which our forefathers cherished through tribulation. And it is our further responsibility to use our time and our energy, the allotted span of our lives, to help in the great work of directing the minds of men and women towards the rich spiritual life which is gained through brotherhood, through being keepers of not only our own eternal destiny, but through being also of service in the spreading of the message of Jesus, which must be exemplified at home and carried to the far frontiers. It is, perhaps, an easy and an accurate accomplishment to measure — that yield of grain which has been secured from the desert, but who is there among us capable of measuring the harvest that may come from a spiritual planting? These seeds develop less certainly and may require a greater length of time for their maturing. And we who seek a new frontier must go forward with great courage and with the inspired devotion of the true pioneer who sees not only the near goal, but the long road that reaches beyond this world. V. P. C. AUGUSTA WINTERS GRANT (Photograph taken on a recent birthday)