Out of the World By Walter G. Babcock. ( Continued.) Walter had long desired to visit the paper mill and see its workings from the time the pulpwood was unloaded from the car to the time it came from the machine ready for the printer's ink. He happened to meet Mr. Whitman in the timekeeper's office one day and, after exchanging pleasant recollections of Green Island and its people, mentioned the matter to him. As Mr. Whitman was off shift at three o'clock in the afternoon that week, they made arrangements for a tour of the mill the following day. Walter secured permission from the superintendent, and a few minuttes after the appointed hour he and Mr. Whitman were watching the workmen hand-hooking the short logs from the cars and throwing them onto an endless chain conveyor which carried the wood along to the grinder bins in the case of barked wood, while the unbarked was carried up a slanting conveyor tower and deposited in a huge pile. J "Let's go below now, Walter, to the grinder room. See," Mr. Whitman explained, as they passed into the room, "here a man with a wheelbarrow gets a load from the bin and wheels it over to the grinder. The grinder is just a big stone that turns inside a socket and rubs the wood into shreds, the steam pressure inside the grindin' machine holdin' the log against the stone. Those stones are some heavy, believe me! Now from here the raw pulp goes to the 'beaters' or 'Hollanders' as we call them." "Why they look just like canal boats, Mr. Whitman," exclaimed Walter. "Ves, the trough of the engine does look like a canal boat," he agreed. 'In the middle of the trough there's a paddlelike contraption that turns and beats up the raw pulp like mush. In this machine they put in the sizin', colorin', and other chemicals. They put in about 25 per cent sulphite pulp here, too—I'll show you how that's made later on. From this here Hollander it goes to a storage chest, then to the refiners or 'Jordans.' The 'Jordans' have knives on the inside, that cut and rub the fibres out, makin' *em so they'll felt or blend together. "Now, let's go in here where the machines are. Here is the one I boss. This is the 'wet' end, and the pulp runs 450 onto that wire screen there called the 'apron.' This shakes the pulp even, and you'll notice most of the water runs off here." "What are those side straps for, and why does the apron shake sideways?" interrogated Walter. "Those are called the 'deckles' and they are made of rubber. They stop the pulp from slidin' off the sides of the apron. The apron shakes so that some of the fibres will lay cross-ways instead of all followin' the direction of the machine and runnin' all one way. "Now, on papers needin' a water-mark, it is made by what is called the 'dandy-roll.' The name or trade-mark is pressed into the soft pulp from this roll so that the water-mark ls simply a thin spot in the paper when it is finished. "The pulp next goes through the couch and press-rolls where most of the water is squeezed out. You see here—the wet paper is taken up by this blanket or felt and run onto these cylinders or 'driers.' There are sixteen driers above and sixteen below. They're filled with steam that dries the paper as it is carried around them by the felt. Those small rolls between the driers are called the 'smoothin-rolls.' Now this is the 'dry' end of the machine, and that stacks of shiny rolls are the calenders. They make the paper smooth. They are steam-heated and have an awful pressure. Next the paper goes to the reel, and then to the winder where, as you can see, it's trimmed and cut, and wound into rolls weighin' from 600 to 1,000 pounds." "Where does it go from here?" inquired Walter. "Well, you see that fellow pushin' the roll into that room? That's the wrappin' and labelin' room, and when they get through with it there, they load it onto the cars; and you know how many cars the mill ships in a day—an average of fifteen. It only takes a few hours, you see, for a log to turn into paper. Jiminie crickets! There's a break! Now you'll see somethin'." The paper rapidly became clogged between the cylinders and the smoothing-rolls, several machine tenders making frantic efforts to get it again winding properly, twisting and jumping about the machine like so many apes. Hundreds of square feet of the paper were pulled from the machine and pushed into the room, making a pile several times higher. Than a man's head. Despite the great size of the pile, one man would drag it easily. In a few minutes the "break" was controlled and the paper once more ran smoothly. "T guess that's all to see here, Walter," said Mr. Whitman. "The boys have to step lively when the paper breaks that way." "How many men does it take to run a machine, Mr. Whitman?" inquired Walter. OUT OF THE WORLD | 451 "Why there's eight on this one. It turns out paper -108 inches wide at the rate of 400 feet a minute. Now let's go over to the sulphite tower." As they entered the building leading to the tower they were greeted by a deafening noise, which Mr. Whitman explained was caused by the "chipper," This powerful machine took four-foot logs from eight to twelve inches in diameter and cut them up into little pieces—''just like meat," he grinned. "From here the chips go between two iron rolls where they are crushed, ready for the cloth which takes out the sawdust, and dirt and takes them to the boilers, you see there, called the 'cookers, " continued Mr. Whitman. 'Here they are cooked in sulphurous acid, and finally the sulphite pulp goes to the Hollanders that I showed you. It's a heap more expensive process than the ground pulp, but it makes a dandy stock. Well, I guess that's all today," he concluded with a yawn. "My, I'm glad to get out of that noise!" exclaimed Walter, as they came outside. "I'm certainly obliged to you, Mr. Whitman, and hope sometime I may be able to return your kindness." "Well, my boy, you may be in such a shape sooner than you think for—for there's goin' to be trouble soon, I calculate," was the significant answer. "Come and see us as soon as you can; Edith is expecting you," he invited.. Walter lost no further time in calling on the Whitmans. He found them neatly and comfortably housed. Mr. Whitman's lot was somewhat more encouraging than that of most of the men of the town, due to his better job at the mill. Walter found him reading one of the numerous substantial works in the bookcease. Mrs. Whitman was short in stature, dark hair and eyes, and doing the usual hard work of a New York industrial section household; but doing it, so it seemed, with a good-natured and interested spirit. Walter was cordially greeted by the husband and wife— the latter reminding him of their experience on the ferry—and in a few minutes Edith came in, dish towel in hand. "Why, hello, Walter," she welcomed. 'You must excuse my looks, as I am washing dishes." "No apologies, Edith; in fact, I've a good mind to come out and help you. I haven't washed a dish or dried one since | left home." "Well, come ahead, then," she invited mischievously. "Here's an apron, and the towel. Now, mind you wipe them dry, and not leave the plates 'crying,' as mama says!" They exchanged many pleasantries, and eagerly she talked of her efforts in sewing and cooking, describing to him the new 1? Domestic Science class which had been opened in high school. As her well-shaped hands deftly turned the dishes, her sleeves rolled up revealing her plump, white arms, lashes drooped hiding her keen, twinkling eyes, Walter ventured a prolonged, admiring glance. Edith Whitman was beautiful—of that there was no question. She looked up suddenly—and smiled—her full, red lips and dimples appealing temptingly to Walter, for they were made to kiss. Truly she was his ideal; she could cook, sew, tend house, and, he had no doubt, wisely rear children also. Yes, as Uncle used to say:; "It's of more importance to teach a girl the practical accomplishments of life than to sentence her for four long years to a prison whose barred windows are the mathematics and clanging gates of the dead languages!" Again, "There's as much religion in cooking a steak so it won't taste like shoeleather as there is in going to church on a Sunday!" Here stood a girl who was able to feed both the spiritual and physical natures, and as she revealed these hopes and desires of her pulsing young spirit, Water's heart responded gladly, like the sun to the sun—slowly rising on the distant hilltop and gently spreading its golden blanket over the peaceful landscape. All too soon for Walter the dishes were done and put away and they retired to the parlor for the evening where they discussed, in a reminiscent mood, old friends and old scenes— and old pleasures. When the hour of departure came, reluctantly Walter bade "Good-night" and went his way homeward. The following Sunday, on their way home from church, that cause of so many bitter enmities, as well as of undying friendships—the subject of religion—came up suddenly. "Walter," began Edith moodily, "a friend was telling me that you were studying and defending the religion of the 'Mormons.' Surely, Walter, you are not taking up with such vile doctrines as they teach," said she persuasively, "Edith, I'm sorry if it hurts you—I must admit that I am a student of 'Mormonism,' and as for defending it, all I can say is, that I believe in upholding what the Bible teaches." "Oh, Walter, you don't know how bad I feel to hear you talk that way! You who have been brought up in the good old Episcopal church; who have sung in the choir, and taught in the Sunday school; surely you aren't going to turn traitor now and leave your church—especially for such a false religion as 'Mormonism'! I know more about them than you, for I've read a book here in our library which tells about their wickedness." OUT OF THE WORLD 453 "Well, here's your house; let's go in and I'll look over your book," he suggested, resistantly. Quickly she brought out a large, green-covered book entitled "Mormonism Unveiled." "There, if you'll read that you'll drop 'Mormonism' mighty quick," she proposed. "Was it written by a 'Mormon'?" he asked somewhat sternly. - "Tt was written by a woman who once was lured to join them, but who afterwards escaped and came back East. Her sufferings and trials were something terrible!" "Edith, have you ever read a book written by a real 'Mormon'?" he asked. ' "No, and I never shall,' she retorted indignantly. "Now don't think I'm going to offer you a 'Mormon' book," he declared, "but I will say this: that if you wanted to know what the Catholics believed, you shouldn't go to a Protestant to find out about it. If a friend wanted to know what you believed, you would not consider him a true friend unless he inquired of you and gave you a chance to speak for yourself. I feel the same way about the 'Mormons'—it's only fair to them to read their literature. I don't know as I shall ever become a 'Mormon,' but I must confess that I can never be a true-blue Episcopal again." "What is there so fascinating about 'Mormonism'—the idea of having two wives?" she flashed maliciously. "That is unkind of you, Edith," he protested. "I have always prided myself on having lived a clean life, although God knows I have had many temptations." "You are talking pretty plain, Walter, but I appreeciate your honesty," she acknowledged frankly. "However, this book will explain, better than I can, why I am so opposed to 'Mormonism.' As a true friend, I beg you to read it, as I believe it will save you from ever joining in with the scum of the earth, such as these 'Mormons' are." "Yes, I'll read it, Edith, for I am only looking for the truth. Remember, though, that the scum is the best part of the milk!' said he laconically. _ He offered his hand in parting, but her clasp was weak, her face impassive; and yet, as he passed out of the door, Walter thought he detected, for an instant, a look fraught with something more than friendly concern. Suddenly, he turned back, fumbling meanwhile in his coat pocket. "Edith, read this, won't you?" he asked appealingly; then continued on his way. She glanced at the title: "The Plan of Salvation." XI. The golden rod faded, and the songsters of the air and wildwood soon were southward flown. Orchards and vines yielded their bounties. Water courses which had run low now flooded stronger under the influence of the autumn rains. The hoarfrost appeared and lavishly bestowed upon the provident squirrels its gifts of woodland jewels. The blue haze of pollen clouds vanished, revealing keen against the purple expanse of night the scintillating stars; even the course of the Milky Way, from the horizons of the poles was more clearly marked. The harvest-moon had come and gone, the teeming grain safely garnered against the winter storms, while old and young gathered thankfully at the harvest-homes. All too soon faded nature's flag on the Adirondack foothills—here the green and brown of the slow-changing oak— there the yellow, green, and flaming red of the maple, the wildwood interwined with garlands of gold. For a moment nature sat, serene and unchanging, like old age, waiting in solemn happiness for winter. Then the gentle whispering and murmuring of the evergreens grew to a mighty roar as the Heavenly Laceworker made ready his patterns,; Early Thanksgiving morning the snow came; softly, quietly it fell on a lifeleess earth prepared for its mantle of white, bringing with it a Sabbathical calm. Walter arose with the first flakes, and, as his mother had gone to Green Island to spend the holiday, he decided to apply himself to reading the "Voice of Warning," the last of the tracts which the elders had left him, For several hours he read, and, just as he finished and decided to read next the Book of Mormon, a knock sounded on the door. Hastening to open, he found a lady well past middle age staring quizzically at him.. 'Are you Mr. Nelson?" she inquired sharply. "Yes, ma'am; won't you come in?" "No, I won't! And what's more, I've come to tell you that there's too many churches here in this town already, and you've got no business starting up another one with that 'Golden Bible' of yours." "Why, madam, I've got no 'Golden Bible,' and I can assure you that I have no intention to start a church of my own," answered Walter, astonished. "No matter; I just want to warn you, that's all," she retorted testily, flouncing unceremoniously off the steps. "So that's the way they look at the Book of Mormon," he said to himself, "that it's another Bible; and I suppose the 'Golden' comes in on account of the golden plates!" (To Be Continued) '