This latter appeared to be sometihng she has picked up at a bargain sale—cheap; but she is satisfied, and fairly exuded pity at my unattached state. "You'll never know what happiness is, Daisy," she gushed, till you have a loving husband and a dear little nest of your own." I was trying to walk this off when I ran plump into Mr. Douglas, hurrying along with a pre-occupied frown on his brow and a suit-case in his hand. "Why the savage expression?" he asked by way of greeting, though I had not known I was showing my vexation so openly. "Only an over-dose of the sunny side of life," I replied, trying to look more amiable than I felt. "Come with me and I'll give you a view of the seamy side," said my new friend, taking my arm and turning me gently about as he spoke, "Only I'm late and in a pow'ful hurry, as Janet says; so if you don't mind we'll have a walking contest! That is," he added, "unless you have other plans." I was curious about his "seamy side" of life until he explained that he is a doctor, newly arrived and trying to build up a practice by unfailing interest and promptness. As old Dr. Halley has no financial necessity for work and has become so cross and crochety that people would almost rather die by themselves than disturb his nights, I foresee a successful future for young Dr. Douglas in our town and told him so. He seemed pleased and told me he had had a chance to take over his father's practice in a large Eastern town at the time of his recent death, but had decided to come west for the sake of his mother's failing health, and sincerely hoped he would be able to make a "go" of it. The Doctor's mother came too, and while he attended the "flu" THE UGLY DUCKLING 189 patients to whom he had been making daily visits for a week, though there was nothing in it for him but getting a practice established, his mother explained, she descanted on the perfections of her handsome son; much to his discomfiture, I could see, when he caught the drift of her confidences. Running down presently on the subject of Donovan, she began to ask me a few polite questions. Mother and the professor called, and mother had been in a number of times; but they had been in town only two months, and knew so few people? She asked about my sisters, and my name. "Margaret!" she repeated, when IJ told her, "Why, that is the name of the girl Donovan is going to marry! Do you hear that, Don? You'll enjoy calling Miss Wallace Margaret, won't you, dear?" T hastened to explain that I am always called Daisy; and Mr. Douglas remarked a trifle dryly that he had hardly got to the stage of calling me Margaret, yet. As most of his visits were to flu patients and the doctor advised tus to stay in the open air, I learned something of Margaret, the fiance. She was the daughter of an old and valued friend, and it had been the desire of Donovan's father's heart as well as of Margeret's father that the two should eventually marry: The engagement had made Donovan's father very happy, coming as it did during his last long illness, when he was worrying about Don's future, and when Margaret was so kind and attentive to the bed-fast old friend. Don had been inclined to be a trifle wild—not bad, of course —just gay and reckless; but his father's death had sobered him wonderfully and he had become as steady as his father himself. And as thoughtful of her. I rather hoped the doctor would come in when he brought me home, but he very formally took his leave at the front door. Perhaps the thought of the absent fiance is haunting him, and he feels he shouldn't be so nice to every Ugly Duckling he meets. I confess the absent Margaret rather spoiled the picture for me. And I'm going straight to sleep and not weave a single romance around a tall dark-eyed young doctor with an interesting name. January 1—I threw the diary in a corner when I finished writing last time and only resurrected and dusted it off again tonight to finish recording this episode before going back to school tomorrow. The day after my last entry the doctor was called out of town, and didn't get back until last evening. I passed several very dull days calling and receiving callers, dining with friends and going to movies, and wishing heartily for the time to come when I must go back to work. Janet came over to ask me to dinner with Mrs. Douglas yesterday, and volunteered the information that the doctor is gone and his mother was lonely.  was really relieved that the doctor was away. I had thought he was purposely avoiding me, and felt furiously angry at myself at snapping up so eagerly the little crumbs of companionship he had offered me, as if I never had had any attention before. But since he was gone I could go to dinner with his mother without any sacrifice of pride; so to please her I got myself up in my very best bib and tucker and went over early, resolved to be as amusing. As possible and try to pay some of my debt of gratitude for their kindness. But dinner was barely commenced when in walked Dr. Douglas! How dreadful I felt! The conceited thing had been so cool to me that last evening, and now to find me hanging around his mother, as if waiting meekly for him to return, was too provoking! I hurried home as soon as I decently could, but the doctor insisted on coming with me, and seemed rather offended when I refused to let him come in and make a fire. I told him I was leaving on the six-thirty train, and intended going straight to bed, and really enjoyed his unmistakable look of disappointment. So that's the last of Dr. Donovan Douglas, so far as I am concerned, and after tomorrow my contacts will be with the Primary Department of the Green Valley school and Mr. Dixon, principal of same. January 5—Mrs. Lowell's Up-Stairs Left-Hand* Bedroom.— Well, back again, ready to deal out knowledge in large doses to my young hopefuls. Arrived cold and weary last evening at nine o'clock in a veritable blizzard. Quite a price to pay for the privilege of spending Christmas all by myself in a deserted house! But that is unkind. The Douglases made it as pleasant as possible, and contrary to my last statement in my diary, I hadn't seen the last of Dr. Douglas, on New Year's night. When I came down the steps in the dim, gray early morning there stood the Doctor's car with the Doctor in it, waiting to drive me to the station. I felt an over-whelming sense of obligation and tried to tell him so, but he only smiled and replied with a look in his handsome brown eyes that made me turn my own away, that perhaps I could return the favor sometime. There was no time for conversation for we were barely in time, but as Dr. Douglas hurried me into the car and my suit-case after me, he asked if he might write. So there's that to look forward to when the children get too dumb, and life looks too drab. January 8—One week of the second semester gone. The children were little fiends after their week of merry-making, late hours, and too much candy. I should have sent the whole roomful in to Mr. Dixon en masse, I was so provoked one afternoon, if he had not looked so harassed with his own set of young ideas. I have been so busy with my own private problems that Mr.