[Vol29 | June 1942 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Anna Prince Redd]
by  Mrs.  Johanna  Chavre,  creator  ot 
authentic  pioneer  and  other  char- 
acter dolls,  and  were  to  have  been 
a  special  feature  of  the  exhibit 
planned  as  a  part  of  the  general  cen- 
tennial celebration. 
Centennial  Contests  and  Composi- 
tions 
In  recognition  of  the  centennial, 
the  General  Board  specified  that  the 
entries  in  the  1941  annual  Eliza  R. 
Snow  Memorial  Prize  Poem  Contest 
be  limited  to  poems  with  a  Relief 
Society  centennial  theme.  All  three 
prize-winning  poems  were  published 
in  the  Relief  Society  Magazine  for 
January  1942,  and  in  Our  Legacy- 
Relief  Society  Centennial  Anthology 
of  Vejse.    They  were  ''Brave,  Priy-

RELIEF  SOCIETY  CELEBRATES  CENTENNIAL 
241 
ileged  Feet/'  by  Eva  Willes  Wangs- 
gaard,  ''Spacious  Century,  1842- 
1942/'  by  Vesta  Pierce  Crawford, 
and  ''Centennial,"  by  Zella  A.  John- 
son. 
Also  in  recognition  of  the  centen- 
nial, the  General  Board  conducted 
the  first  short  story  contest  in  its 
history,  with  the  stipulation  that  the 
entries  must  have  a  Relief  Society 
centennial  theme.  The  three  prize- 
winning  stories  were  published  con- 
secutively in  the  first  three  issues  of 
the  Rdiei  Society  Magazine  in  1942. 
The  first  prize  was  awarded  to  Alice 
Morrey  Bailey  for  "Wilderness,"  the 
second  to  Mable  Harmer  for  "In- 
heritance," and  the  third  to  Vera 
Hinckley  Mayhew  for  "Men  Must 
Work." 
These  prize-winning  poems  and 
stories  were  used  in  many  of  the 
ward  centennial  celebrations,  as  also 
were  the  winning  entries  in  the  sev- 
eral similar  contests  conducted  by 
various  stake  and  ward  Relief  Soci- 
eties. Some  of  the  stakes  published 
commendable  little  collections  of 
\erse  by  their  own  Relief  Society 
women. 
Two  official  centennial  songs  were 
composed  at  the  request  of  the  Gen- 
eral Board  and  issued  in  November 
1941,  both  punched  to  fit  the  loose- 
leaf  Relief  Society  Song  Book. 
Words  and  music  for  "A  Song  of 
Triumph,"  were  composed  by  the 
late  Beatrice  F.  Stevens,  member  of 
the  General  Board,  well  known  by 
Relief  Society  women  for  her  earlier 
compositions,  among  them  the  Re- 
lief Society  rally  song,  "A  Hundred 
•Thousand  Strong,"  which  captured 
the  spirit  of  the  membership  cam- 
paign and  is  sung  in  many  lands.  Dr. 
Florence  Jepperson  Madsen,  mem- 
ber of  the  Board,  composed  the  mus- 
ic, and  Dr.  Carlton  Culmsee  the 
words  of  "In  Thy  Form,"  written 
especially  for  three-part  women's 
choruses.  Both  centennial  songs, 
which  were  to  have  been  sung  at  the 
general  centennial  concert  by  1,500 
Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers,  were 
featured  at  many  of  the  local  cele- 
brations, particularly  those  present- 
ing Singing  Mothers'  concerts.  Sev- 
eral wards  included  in  centennial 
programs  the  musical  compositions 
of  their  own  Relief  Society  women, 
and  others  presented  the  cantata, 
"Messengers  of  Mercy,"  for  which 
music  was  composed  by  Gladys  Rich 
and  words  by  Minnie  D.  Warner, 
and  which  was  dedicated  to  Presi- 
dent Amy  Brown  Lyman.  "Resur- 
rection Morning,"  by  the  late  B. 
Cecil  Gates,  which  also  was  to  have 
constituted  part  of  the  great  centen- 
nial concert  was  sung  in  full  or  in 
part  by  many  choruses  of  Singing 
Mothers  on  or  near  March  17. 
Centennial  Souvenirs 
Special  souvenirs  of  the  centennial 
issued  by  the  General  Board  during 
1941— the  Relief  Society  pin,  com- 
memorative plate,  anthology  ot 
verse,  and  the  centennial  insignia 
in  the  form  of  gummed  seals— had 
been  widely  distributed  by  March 
17,  1942.  By  this  date,  six  months 
after  the  pin  first  became  available 
in  September,  1941,  nearly  5,000  pins 
had  been  purchased.  This  beautiful 
membership  pin,  provided  in  two 
grades  but  of  identical  design,  size, 
and  coloring,  is  not  limited  to  use  in 
the  centennial  year,  but  will  be  con- 
tinued in  stock  as  the  official  Relief 
Society  pin.  The  10^ -inch  centen- 
nial plate,  depicting  the  first  Relief 
Society  meeting,  and  Our  Legacy—

242  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL,  1942 
Relid  Society  Centennial  Anthology  memorating  in  picture  and  story  the 
oi  Veise,  both  of  which  were  issued  dramatic  history  of  Rehef  Society's 
just  prior  to    Christmas    1941,  are  one  hundred  years, 
being  well  received.   The  official  Re-  All  of  the  personal  souvenirs-the 
hef  Society  centennial  insignia,  re-  pin,  plate,  anthology,  and  historical 
produced   in   blue  and   gold   on   a  book— though  nominal  in  cost,  arc 
gummed    sticker,    was    extensively  mementos  of  the  centennial  which 
used  during  the  centennial  year,  and  will  be  increasingly  cherished  as  time 
particularly  at  the  time  of  the  anni-  goes  on  by  those  who  held  member- 
versary  celebration,  in  a  variety  of  ship  in  the  Society  during  its  cen- 
ways,   such  as  on  programs,  place-  tennial   year,   and  will   be   handed 
cards,  special  booklets,  and  station-  down  to  their  daughters  and  grand- 
ery.  First  issued  in  September  1941,  daughters,  the  future  members   of 
the  entire  supply  of  200,000  of  these  the  Society, 
stickers  was  exhausted  by  March  17, 
but  has  since  been  replenished  and  ^^^^^^  Society's  Centennial  Giit  to 
these  seals  will  be  available  hereafter.  ^^^  Church 
The  official  centennial  insignia  al-  Construction  of  Relief  Society's 
so  appeared  on  new  stationery  of  the  centennial  gift  to  the  Church,  the 
General  Board,  lithographed  in  blue  graceful  memorial  campanile  (bell 
and  gold,  which  went  into  use  in  tower),  35  feet  in  height,  described 
August  1941,  and  on  the  member-  in  the  Magazine  for  January,  1942, 
ship  cards  issued  September  1941,  is  going  forward  with  the  expecta- 
for  use  during  the  ensuing  1941-42  tion  that  this  memorial  will  be  set 
membership  year.  A  one-color  re-  in  place  during  the  summer  of  1942, 
production  of  this  insignia  embel-  on  the  designated  site  on  Temple 
hshed  the  cards  containing  the  Ar-  Square  near  the  north  gates.  Ac- 
ticles  of  Faith  which  were  distribut-  companying  is  a  picture  of  the  skilled 
ed,  one  to  a  family,  in  all  English-  artisans  completing  the  hand- 
speakmg  wards  and  branches  of  the  wrought  bronze  tower  in  which  the 
Church  in  December  1941.  This  historic  Nauvoo  Temple  bell  will  be 
insignia  also  appears  for  the  first  hung.  In  the  meantime,  the  blue- 
time  in  the  name  plate  of  the  Maga-  grey  granite  for  the  base  is  being  cut 
zme  in  this  issue,  page  225.  and  polished,  and  Utah-born  Avard 
Another  souvenir  of  the  centen-  Fairbanks  is  working  on   the  four 
nial,  A  Centenary  oi  Relief  Society,  sculptured  plaques  which  are  to  sur- 
a    96-page    historical    and   pictorial  round  the  base.    Arrangements  are 
book,  size  9x12  inches,  is  to  come  being  made  so  that  the  historic  bell 
off  the  press  May  1,  1942.    Publica-  may  be  rung  and  it  is  hoped  that  the 
tion  of  this  book  was  purposely  set  tower  may  later  be  used  for  broad- 
for  this  time  so  that  it  could  include  casting  Tabernacle  organ  music,  con- 
a  record  of  the  great  general  cen-  ference  addresses,  and  recorded  mu- 
tennial  celebration  and  conference,  sic  and  messages  on  Temple  Square. 
This  valuable  book  will  not  be  de-  Realizing    and    appreciating    the 
layed  until  such  time  as  the  general  privilege  accorded  the  Society  by  the 
celebration  may  later  be  held,  but  Authorities  of  the  Church  in  per- 
will  be  issued  as  scheduled,   com-  mitting  erection  of  this  memorial  on

RELIEF  SOCIETY  CELEBRATES  CENTENNIAL 
243 
ARTISANS  COMPLETING  THE  HAND-WROUGHT  BRONZE  TOWER 
For  the  Relief  Society  Centennial  Memorial  Campanile.    Inset — The 
Historic  Nauvoo  Temple  Bell  To  Be  Hung  in  the  Tower 
1  emple  Square,  and  removal  of  the  ety's  one  hundred  years  has  brought 
bell  from  the  Church  museum  to  to  the  women  of  the  Church  new 
the  tower,  voluntary  contributions  appreciation  for  the  Society  in  which 
toward  this  centennial  gift  are  being  they  are  privileged  to  hold  member- 
made  by  Relief  Society  women  ship,  and  has  increased  their  aware- 
throughout  the  Church,  by  men  ness  that  the  inception  of  the  So- 
wishing  to  honor  their  grandmothers,  ciety  was  divinely  inspired;  that  the 
mothers,  wives,  or  sisters  who  have  purposes  of  the  original  organization 
been  or  now  are  Relief  Society  mem-  are  still  the  principal  concern  of  all 
bers,  and  by  other  interested  indi-  Relief  Societies  today  wherever  lo- 
viduals.  cated;  that  there  is  still  need  in  all 
communities  of  the  Church,   irre- 
At  the  Threshold  oi  a  New  Century  spective  of  their  varied  geographical 
location,  for  the  same  helpful,  friend- 
Observance  of  the  centennial  has  ly^  sympathetic,  human  services  as 
engendered  Church-wide  retrospec-  those  performed  by  the  women  of 
tion,  introspection,  and  evaluation  Nauvoo  at  the  inception  of  the  So- 
of  the  Society,  its  history,  purposes,  ciety,  despite  the  great  social  and 
and  accomplishments.  TTiis  long  economic  changes  which  have  oc- 
and  discerning  look  at  Relief  Soci-  curred  in  the  meantime;  that  in  ad-

244 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL,  1942 
liCiing  to  its  initial  assignment  the 
Society  has  not  chnig  to  customs 
and  functions  for  which  there  is  no 
need  today,  but  that  it  has  adapted 
its  human  services  to  a  changing  era, 
risen  to  meet  new  needs,  expanded 
its  program,  and  endeavored  always 
to  improve  the  methods  by  which 
it  carries  forward  its  timeless  objec- 
tives. 
On  the  threshold  of  this  new  cen- 
tury of  service  stand  115,000  mem- 
bers of  the  Society  which  began  its 
first  hundred  years  with  but  eighteen 
women;  30,000  visiting  teachers  now 
carry  on  the  system  of  friendly  visit- 
ing begun  in  1843  by  a  ''necessity 
committee"  of  only  sixteen;  disburse- 
ments for  charitable  purposes 
amounted  to  $97,000.00  in  the  hun- 
dredth year,  as  compared  with 
$306.48  expended  for  the  relief  of 
the  poor  during  the  Society's  first 
year;  23,000  officers  are  now  gaining 
administrative  experience  in  con- 
ducting the  nearly  2,400  administra- 
tive units,  observing  parliamentary 
usage  as  did  the  first  Relief  Society 
when  there  were  no  precedents  and 
patterns  for  women's  organizations; 
unnumbered  thousands  of  experi- 
enced needle-women  are  making 
bedding  and  clothing  for  those  in 
need,  a  service  performed  through- 
out the  century  since  its  initiation 
by  the  Relief  Society  women  of  Nau- 
voo  who  assembled  materials  and 
made  bedding  and  clothing  to  be 
''given  to  such  as  are  suffering  cold 
and  nakedness";  and  thousands  of 
women  are  conducting  regular  clas- 
ses, instituted  during  the  second  half 
of  the  first  century  in  the  weekly 
meetings  of  the  Society  on  religious, 
cultural,  and  home-making  subjects. 
Although  the  busy  women  in  the 
days  of  Nauvoo  and  in  the  subse- 
quent pioneer  period  did  not  have 
opportunity  for  the  classwork  which 
is  now  an  important  part  of  every 
local  Relief  Society,  they  frequently 
bore  testimony  of  their  faith  in  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  do  the 
women  of  today,  and  established  the 
dual  concept  of  spiritual  develop- 
ment for  the  women  of  the  Society 
and  of  compassionate  human  service 
hy  the  women  of  the  Society,  which 
has  characterized  the  organization 
from  its  beginning. 
Encouraged,  strengthened,  and  en- 
riched by  the  review  of  the  past,  the 
members  of  the  Society  now  look 
to  the  future  as  did  Eliza  R.  Snow 
ninety-nine  years  ago,  who  in  the 
first  annual  report  of  the  secretary 
wrote,  ''More  has  been  accomplished 
than  our  most  sanguine  anticipations 
predicted,  and  through  the  assistance 
and  blessing  of  God,  what  may  we 
not  hope  for  the  future?"  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman  in  her  centen- 
nial phonograph  message  also  faced 
the  Society  toward  the  future  by 
these  words:  "We  feel  that  we  must 
use  the  lessons  of  the  past  to  build  for 
tomorrow,  but  in  so  doing,  we  must 
not  cast  such  longing  eyes  at  the 
past  that  we  fail  to  view  the  possi- 
bilities and  the  glories  of  the  future." 
Truly  has  she  also  said,  "Our  cen- 
tennial will  be  not  only  an  appraisal 
of  the  past,  but  a  dedication  to  the 
future."