[Vol29 | June 1942 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Guide | Title: Theology and Testimony]

Theology and Testimony Articles of Faith, By James E. Talmage
THE many favorable reports received regarding last year's course of study in the theology department reveal the interest and profitableness of our first year's study of the Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage. As we continue through the second year of our study of this text, it is hoped that class leaders in the theology department will rededicate their energies to the end that the entire Relief Society membership will have its appreciation for the principles of the Gospel immeasurably increased. To help bring this about, class leaders are asked to make a greater effort to have the women study the chapters in the text before the discussion period.
A copy of the Articles of Faith by James E. Talmage is to be found in almost every Latter-day Saint home, as every missionary who has gone into the field has been required to purchase one of these books. Last year the visiting teachers left in every home in the Church a large printed card of the "Articles of Faith" with the request that every mother memorize them and encourage her family to do likewise, that all might have definitely in mind what we, as Latter-day Saints, believe. An attempt should be made by every ward class leader to promote the use of this card in the home.
If our appreciation for the Gospel is to grow and expand, our understanding of the principles must be
Page 428
based upon correct conceptions of them; otherwise, there would be no growth, and we would be traveling in reverse to truth. Our preconceived attitudes toward and our misconceptions of Gospel truths and standards are very great handicaps to us. They feed doubt. They are not only drawbacks to us, but we pass them on to our families. When our thinking along doctrinal lines is not clear and scripturally accurate, we are confused in our actions, and as a result we transmit this confusion into the minds and hearts of our children. This is the reason for much of the disregard and disrespect shown for the principles of the Gospel. This comes about unwittingly.
We never can outgrow Gospel principles. As our understanding enlarges, greater vistas of knowledge and wisdom stand revealed to us. Our appreciation increases in proportion to our understanding. The same holds true with regard to our faith. We cannot have great faith unless we live great. Our faith never surpasses our living, neither does our living surpass our faith, and our living and faith do not surpass our understanding. We can fail to live up to our understanding, but our living is prescribed by our understanding. Thus, to grow in faith and understanding and living, our conceptions of the principles of the Gospel must be correct. We can be ever so conscientious, but if we have the wrong slant on things