[Vol29 | June 1942 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Our Need of Rhythm Madsen]

Our Need Of Rhythm Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen
"I just love music, but I haven't a bit of talent in that line." This statement is so commonly heard that it has come to be accepted as true without even a challenge. It would be interesting to know by what means the conclusion is reached?whether one has tried repeatedly and failed, or whether it is merely snap judgment without one ever having tried to learn. The old music master told his rather easygoing pupil that all it takes to make a very good musician is a little inspiration coupled with a lot of perspiration?in other words, inspiration and hard work.
In order to rightly determine whether or not one possesses a capacity or talent for music, it is first necessary to analyze music to see of what it is made. Then we can decide to some degree, at least, if this particular talent is a rare gift to be held by the "special few" or if it is more or less a common inheritance of all.
The four simple elements of which music consists are: rhythm, melody, harmony, and timbre (a French word pronounced "tambr," meaning tone color or tone quality). Some theorists add two more elements; namely; counterpoint and form.
In Elson's Music Dictionary we read: "Rhythm is the division of musical ideas or sentences into regular metrical portions; musical accent and cadence as applied to melody. Rhythm represents the regular pulsation of music." Thus, it is regular or reciprocated pulsation or accent. It is vi-
Page 418
bration reduced in speed so that man can understand and use it. It has been called the "heart-beat" of music.
Rhythm is the oldest and one of the most intriguing of these elements. The very fact that it was the first to claim expression among primitive peoples, and that it was able to satisfy their needs, and that it has carried its dominant strength down through the ages gathering even greater momentum as the years have passed, makes one ponder these questions: Is rhythm something apart from me, or a part of me? In what way was I first made acquainted with it? Is it of any particular value to me? If so, how may I increase my rhythmic sense?
Rhythm is very much a part of us; it is an instinct of human nature. It has functioned very definitely ever since we were born. Our acquaintance with it has come in various ways: the beating of our heart, breathing, talking, laughing, chewing, walking, marching, running, skipping, dancing, applauding, skating, swimming, the tick of the clock, ting of the bell, patter of rain, the train whistle, the turning of wheels, and the motion of machinery.
Rhythm is of great value to us?it is essential to our physical well-being; it has much to do with refining our activities into gracefulness and poise; it is essential for perfect balance and health.