[Vol29 | June 1942 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Happenings Cannon]

HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon
Oh rose-trimmed June with azure skies, perfection in your beauty lies.
THESE are days that try men's souls: homes disrupted with partings and vast changes taking place in every community. With fathers going into war service, great responsibility is necessarily brought upon the mothers. Let them beware and not be lured into fields of war service or industry lest their little ones lose the necessary protecting care. To shield the children from fear and evil and give them joy and faith is the finest patriotism mothers can show. God pity the world when little children lose faith. Nature still smiles and showers her loveliness upon us.
MADAM CHIANG KAI-SHEK, probably the world's most remarkable woman at present, hopes to have a voice in plans for rehabilitation of the nations after victory. In a recent article in the Atlantic Monthly she clearly and definitely states her views on this subject. Madam Chiang and the East Indian woman leader, Madam Nehru, held conference recently in Agra, India, near the Taj Mahal.
PRINCESS ELIZABETH, now "Her Royal Highness, the Colonel," reviewed her troops, the famed Grenadier Guards, on the grounds of Windsor Castle. She is now sixteen years old.
GERTRUDE VANDERBILT WHITNEY, one of America's wealthiest women, died recently. She left $2,500,000 to the Whitney Museum of Art, and the residue of her estate to charities.
Page 400
DIANA, charming and vivacious daughter of the late John Barrymore, actor, has made her debut on stage and screen. Will she keep up the family tradition of stardom?
EDNA HARKER THOMAS, wife of Utah's Senator Elbert D. Thomas, died last month. Mrs. Thomas was a charming, helpful, and efficient worker both in Church and civic affairs.
Hannah M. Aldrich, 101, of Mt. Pleasant, Mary E. L. Neff, 92, one of Utah's earliest telegraphers, and Mary E. W. James, 84, all remarkable Utah pioneers and Church workers, died last month.
JOSEPHINE WINSLOW JOHNSON, 1934 Pulitzer prize winner for her novel Now In November, was married in May to Grant G. Cannon of Salt Lake City.
ELLEN GLASGOW, for her novel In This Our Life, and Margaret Leech for Reveille in Washington, were awarded Pulitzer prizes of $500 each this year.
Mary Roberts Rinehart's Haunted Lady, Irina Skaratina's Russian story Tamara, Margaret K. Rawling's Cross Creek, Nina Fedorova's The Children, and Flight From China by Edna Lee Booker are interesting new books by women.
EDITH NOURSE ROGERS (R., Mass.) introduced a bill in Congress a woman's auxiliary army corps to permit 150,000 women volunteers to serve in non-combat capacity with the troops at home and abroad. The bill was passed by Congress May 12, 1942.