[Vol29 | June 1942 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON PREVIEW]
LESSON PREVIEWS
our efforts are fruitless, and we are led away from revealed light and truth, and our light will not grow brighter and brighter until the perfect day.
It is our opportunity and privilege while we are studying the Articles of Faith to place ourselves on a good firm footing as to just what we do believe as Latter-day Saints. Class leaders should keep in mind the objectives in this department: (1) to study the Gospel diligently; (2) to strive to obtain a testimony of it; (3) to try to live it in its fullness.
In a study of the principles of the Gospel the class leader should be alert and cautious to confine the discussion to those principles which are orthodox and supported by scripture. It would be ideal if the class leader could motivate the class members to the extent that they would bring the scriptures with them in support of their views. The references in the Articles of Faith are so complete that if a class leader has read these and understands them she will be prepared to conduct a class along well-defined lines and will know immediately when the class members attempt to stray too far away from correct principles and doctrine.
There is great need for any class leader in the Relief Society to seek the Lord constantly for help
in her capacity as a class leader; but in this department especially, in order to influence women to live righteously, and in order to teach by the direction of the Spirit, we must be prayerful.
The lesson material for the theology department to be published in the Magazine this coming year will contain two features: first, a brief resume of the lesson with the salient points stressed, which will provide general reading appeal to the class members; second, an outline which will offer specific suggestions and helps to the ward class leader in the preparation and presentation of the lesson.
Following are the lesson titles: Chapter 9. The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper Chapter 10. Authority in the Ministry Chapter 11. The Church and its Plan of Organization Chapter 12. Spiritual Gifts Chapter 13. The Bible Chapter 14. The Book of Mormon Chapter 15. The Book of Mormon Chapter 16. Revelation, Past, Present, and Future
Articles of Faith, by Elder James E. Talmage, may be purchased from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah, for 85 cents for a single copy, or 70 cents when purchased in quantities of six or more.
Visiting Teachers Messages To The Home
THE great objective of visiting teaching is to promote faith in God and give encouragement and helpful ideas. Visiting teachers should attend the teachers' training meeting in the ward and should take notes to help them remember the important ideas to present. They should then reread the lesson and notes before visiting their district. Remember, "the prepared teacher is the inspired teacher." The confidence that she has a helpful, inspirational message to leave in each home will be a joy and satisfaction to her as a teacher.
