[Vol29 | June 1942 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: Preserve the Child's Family Life in Wartime Hazel M. Peterson]
PRESERVE  FAMILY  LIFE  IN  WARTIME  37$ 
home,  more  sex  delinquency,  more  den.  Certainly  no  child  of  this  age 
requests  for  services  to  unmarried  should  be  required  to  assume  a  load 
mothers.  Stories  of  shocking  neglect  of  such  adult  proportion.  The  daily 
of  children  of  mothers  at  work  are  papers  periodically  carry  stories  of 
daily  coming  to  the  attention  of  chil-  tragedy  to  children  who  have  been 
dren's  agencies.  These  are  some  of  left  for  many  hours  without  adult 
the  inevitable  consequences  of  dis-  care.  Nearly  every  day  complaints 
ruption  of  family  life  and  would  in-  are  being  filed  with  probation  offi- 
dicate  that  many  children  are  being  cers  of  our  juvenile  courts,  by  neigh- 
deprived  of  adequate  care.  bors  of  families  in  which  the  mother 
is  working,  charging  neglect  of  chil- 
TiTITH  both  parents  working  out  of  dren.  Investigation  of  these  com- 
^  the  home,  meals  are  often  hap-  plaints  shows  that  the  working  par- 
hazard,  parents  are  too  tired  to  give  ents  have  made  no  arrangements  for 
their  children  proper  physical  care;  the  care  of  their  children  of  pre- 
and  habit  training,  so  essential  to  school  age,  trusting  the  neighbors  to 
wholesome  personahty  development,  look  after  them, 
is  grossly  neglected.  Out-of-school  Day  nurseries  and  child-placing 
hours  are  completely  unsupervised,  agencies,  the  country  over,  are  re- 
and  many  children  are  locked  out  of  portmg  a  marked  increase  in  the 
the  home  until  the  parents  return  number  of  applications  for  child 
from  work.  Other  children,  particu-  care,  particularly  from  working 
lady  those  of  pre-school  age,  are  mothers  whose  husbands,  for  various 
locked  in  the  home  with  no  older  reasons,  are  away  from  home.  Many 
person  to  care  for  their  needs,  even  of  these  applications  are  for  twenty- 
when  the  parents  are  working  the  four  hour  a  day  care  for  very  young 
night  shift.  In  one  of  our  Utah  children.  Group  care  and  day  care 
communities,  parents  are  leaving  m  foster  homes  are  very  difficult  for 
their  children  on  the  doorsteps  of  children,  as  they  require  the  child  to 
the  school  building  as  early  as  seven  adjust  to  two  sets  of  living  conditions 
o'clock  in  the  morning  and  not  call-  every  day.  But,  difficult  as  these 
ing  for  them  until  six  o'clock  at  conditions  are,  they  are  not  nearly  so 
night.  In  some  instances  these  chil-  threatening  to  the  child's  emotional 
dren  have  had  no  breakfast,  nor  have  development  as  is  foster  home  place- 
they  been  washed  and  dressed  for  ment.  This  type  of  care  means  that 
school.  One  teacher  reported  that  children  are  placed  in  boarding 
sick  children  were  sent  to  school  homes  which,  in  all  probability,  indi- 
with  notes  not  to  send  them  home  cates  a  broken  home, 
as  there  was  no  one  at  home  to  care  In  every  community  where  great 
for  them.  One  parent  could  not  numbers  of  requests  are  being  made 
understand  why  her  ten-year-old  son  for  this  kind  of  care,  careful  exam- 
should  rebel  against  having  three  ination  should  be  made  into  the 
younger  brothers  and  sisters  left  in  reason  for  these  requests.  If  em- 
his  care  while  his  parents  worked,  ployment  practices  are  at  fault  and 
The  parents  were  amazed  to  learn  women  with  small  children  are  being 
that  the  emotional  hazards  were  as  enticed  into  industry,  employers 
great  to  him  as  was  the  physical  bur-  should  be  encouraged  to  exhaust  all

376  RELIEF  SOCIETY    MAGAZINE— JUNE  1942 
other  sources  of  labor  supply  before  ents,  which  is  rightfully  theirs.  There 
recruiting  workers  from  mothers  of  are  certain  intangible  qualities  in  the 
families.  If  there  is  no  other  source  child's  own  home  for  which  there 
of  supply  it  may  be  that  war  pro-  are  no  substitutes.  His  family  ties 
duction  plants  can  cooperate  with  should  only  be  broken  after  an  ex- 
community  welfare  agencies  to  see  haustive  study  indicates  that  to 
that  these  mothers  are  given  only  maintain  them  will  prove  too  de- 
day  shifts  so  they  can  spend  their  structive  to  him.  As  noted  above,