[Vol29 | June 1942 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON PREVIEW]

LESSON PREVIEWS
All humanity proclaims this the woman's era. Everything important tends to emphasize the fact. The spirit of woman's future destiny rests upon the sisters, and they obey the impulse of the times in which they live!... The women of Zion in every land lift up their voices today in glad Hosannas for the deliverance that has been wrought out for them, and the blessings that have come through this great and grand organization established fifty years ago and by means of which so much good has been accomplished, not only in works of charity and blessing, but in the development of the higher attributes of the human soul that tend to purify, exalt and uplift the world. And while we celebrate this day of days let us cherish in sacred remembrance the memory of those who are not with us, but have gone on before;...
Clarissa S. Williams, the sixth general president of Relief Society, worked for many years in the organization and contributed much to its growth. Not long before she resigned as president, in 1928, she spoke to the General Board as follows:... And I admit that probably I am getting a little old, for I should like to speak a little of my experience in the Relief Society. I began my Relief Society work when I was sixteen years old, going around the block as an assistant teacher, and I feel that the experience I gained at that time has been most valuable and formed the foundation for much of the work that I have been able to do since.... Now I like to feel that I have no regrets, that I have done my work as well as I could, that I have tried to have the spirit of the Lord with me at all times.
Louise Y. Robison, the seventh general president of Relief Society, presided over the organization during the centennial celebration of the Church, and started planning for the Relief Society centennial. In the March 1938 Relief Society Magazine, in an article, "Birthday Wish," she said:
Relief Society was organized to help women find the true values of life. Each lesson studied, each act of loving service performed, each friendship made, broadens our horizon and gives us a desire to more nearly walk in obedience to the commandments. Love expresses itself in service and Relief Society gives opportunity for such service.
Our present and eighth general president, Amy Brown Lyman, earnestly desires the women to live in accordance with the principles of the Gospel and to hearken to the voice of the Priesthood. In speaking to the General Board in 1928, Amy Lyman said:
But there is something greater in the Relief Society than any one of these activities, or than all of them, and it is the spirit of the work, the great, dynamic spiritual force which has been with the Society from the beginning. And what is this force? It is the Spirit of the Lord with which the organization has been blessed since the Prophet Joseph Smith turned the keys to women. This Spirit has been supported by the Holy Priesthood all through these years, and by your faith and prayers, and your testimonies. This spirit is the real force which has made the organization great, and my prayer is that we will always bear this in mind.
Since the days of Eliza R. Snow all Relief Society Presidents have been called to their positions by the presidents of the Church and have worked under their guidance and in close cooperation with them. References will appear at the end of each lesson to aid class leaders in securing additional information.
Inasmuch as the course on "General Presidents of Relief Society" includes eight lessons?one on each general president?and inasmuch as no lesson is required to be presented on the fourth Tuesday of December because of the holiday season, it is suggested that the extra lesson in this course be presented, if desired, on a fifth Tuesday sometime during the season, or that two lessons be combined.
Gotta Be Cash!