[Vol33 | October 1946 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Nothing Is Roberts]
/^AROL  brought  the  hot  cakes  and  bodies,  and  nothing  to  make  their 
the  milk.  She  curled  her  hands  in  hearts  beautiful  or  their  souls  grow, 
her  apron  and,  suddenly,  her  heart  Then,  at  the  thought  of  the  baby, 
was    pounding   thunderously,    *'Do  she  decided,  Fm  being  given  a  new 
you  like  babies?"  That  wasn't  what  chance  with  this    baby.     A    fierce 
she  had  meant  to  say  at  all.  ''Little  protectiveness  shook  her.    Her  home 
new  ones,"  she  added  hastily.  should  be  a  fortress  against  the  fal- 
"Babies?"    Joyce  reached  for  the  lacies,  and  the  vicious  creeds  and  the 
syrup.    "Good  grief,  no!    That  new  hatreds  and  ignorance  of  the  world, 
neighbor  wanted  me  to  tend  hers.  She  would  make  it  so  and  keep  it 
and  did  I  give  her  to  understand  I  that  way.    Somehow,  someway,  she 
was  not  interested!  Celia  says  babies  would  find  the  way  to  make  her 
are  messy  little  things."  She  waved  family  greet  this  new  member  with 
her  spoon  largely,  "None  for  me,  the  proper  love  and  tenderness, 
ever."  She  watched  Joyce  apply  a  thick 
"Joyce!"     Carol  stared  unbeliev-  layer  of  lipstick,  but  this  time  she 
ingly.     "Suppose  Fd  felt  that  way  did   not   remonstrate,   instead,   she 
before  you  were  born?"  laid    her    hand    tenderly    on    her 
Joyce  shrugged.     "You've  always  daughter's  cheek, 
been  mad  about  babies.    Fm  not."  Joyce  smiled.  "Hi,  Mom!    Well, 
"Babies?"    echoed    Danny.      He  Fm  off.    Yipes,  listen  to  Dad  on  the 
considered.    "I  used  to  want  a  baby  state  of  the  bathroom!" 
in   the  family  when   I   was  a  kid,  Danny  flushed  guiltily  and  rose, 
before  I  got  to  be  sixteen  and  had  "I  forgot  again.  Plead  my  case.  Mom. 
some  sense.  But,  gosh,  I  never  even  I  gotta  go." 
look  at  them  now.  Nope.  Can't  be  Carol  waited  for  Dan  and  thought, 
bothered.     Say,  Mom,  do  you  sup-  Fm  glad  we'll  be  alone.     Fll  tell 
pose  you  could  persuade  Dad  to  buy  him  and  it  will  be  like  it  used  to  be, 
me  that  jalopy  of  Paul's?     I  could  warmth  and  friendliness  and  love, 
make  twenty  bucks,  fixing  it  up."  Dan  stormed  down  the  stairs.    "If 
"Fll  ask  him,"  said  Carol.     She  that  boy  doesn't  learn  to  wipe  up

676 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOBER  1946 
the  bathroom  floor!"  He  gave  Carol 
a  quick  peck.  "Feehng  better,  Pet? 
That's  fine.  I'm  hoping  you'll  be 
in  top  form  before  the  Wentworths 
get  here.  I'm  counting  on  one  of 
your  good  dinners  to  swing  the 
account  my  way." 
Carol  flipped  the  hot  cake  over. 
"Suppose  I  can't  entertain  them, 
Dan?" 
Dan  picked  up  his  paper.  ''Don't 
make  jokes,  my  dear.  With  the  way 
prices  have  gone  up  we're  going  to 
need  a  lot  more  money.  I  want  a 
new  car  .  .  .  and  some  trips  .  .  .  Fd 
like  to  buy  you  a  new  coat.  ...  I 
was  wondering  about  a  private 
school  for  Joyce.  What  do  you 
think?'' 
"I  was  thinking  about  babies," 
Carol  said  softly,  "little  warm  babies, 
in  soft  pink  sweaters." 
"Babies!"  Dan  snorted,  "Babies? 
We  won't  have  to  think  about  them 
for  years.  Joyce  won't  be  married 
for  years,  if  I  have  anything  to  say 
about  it." 
Carol  sat  on  the  stool  by  the  sink. 
She  watched  him  read  his  paper, 
finish  his  breakfast,  and  depart.  She 
went  slowly  to  gather  up  the  break- 
fast dishes.  We  touch  each  otlier 
every  day,  Dan  and  I,  our  hands 
touch,  and  our  lips,  and  sometimes 
we  look  at  each  other  when  we 
speak,  but  what  is  more  banen  than 
a  touch  without  knowledge,  and 
more  blind  than  eyes  accustomed  to 
the  thing  they  see? 
CHE  could  no  longer  endure 
the  quiet  house.  She  worked 
swiftly  until  just  before  noon, 
then  she  changed  and  went  down- 
town. She  walked  slowly  up 
Main  Street,  looking  in  the  shop 
windows,  struggUng  to  cast  off  her 
doubts  and  depression.  A  tall  girl  in 
a  yellow  jacket,  obviously  pregnant, 
looked  at  the  display  of  slim,  spring 
dresses.  Carol  smiled  at  her,  she 
who  was  inordinately  shy,  and  found 
herself  saying,  "But  it  won't  be  very 
long  .  .  .  you'll  be  even  prettier." 
The  girl  laughed.  "I  don't  mind. 
I'm  glad  .  .  .  glad  .  .  .  You  see  they 
told  me  once  that  I  couldn't  have  a 
baby.  Think  of  going  through  life 
without  a  baby  of  your  own.  I  was 
the  oldest  ...  it  was  a  thrill,  each 
new  small  brother  or  sister." 
Something  of  the  girl's  joy  went 
with  Carol  up  the  street.  She  walked 
past  the  shopping  district,  and  up 
the  littie  hill  that  led  from  Temple 
Square.  She  rested  for  a  moment 
against  an  old  stone  wall.  She  looked 
over  the  valley,  at  the  homes,  at  the 
long  business  street,  at  the  gray  walls 
of  the  temple,  and  Angel  Moroni's 
glinting  gold  in  the  afternoon  sun. 
Words  from  a  psalm  slipped  like 
jewels  on  a  chain,  "His  foundation 
is  in  the  holy  mountains.  The  Lord 
loveth  the  gates  of  Zion  more  than 
all  the  dwellings  of  Jacob.  .  .  .  Glor- 
ious things  are  spoken  of  thee,  O 
city  of  God.  .  .  ."  With  quickening 
breath  Carol  threaded  the  other 
words,  "...  And  of  Zion  it  shall  be 
said.  This  and  that  man  was  bom  in 
her:  and  the  highest  himself  shall 
establish  her.  The  Lord  shall  count, 
when  he  writeth  up  the  people,  that 
this  man  was  bom  there.    Selah." 
".   .   .  That  this  man  was  bora 
there   "   Carol  put  her  hand  upon 
her  breast.  She  was  very  still,  washed 
in  a  nameless,  burning  beauty.  We 
forget,  she  thought,  the  important 
things,  how  valuable  to  God  are  the 
children  bom  here.  How  greatly 
tiiey  will  be  needed  in  the  years  to 
come.    She   reached   out    for   the

THE  INTRUDER 
€n 
moment,  to  keep  its  strength  and  its 
beauty,  but  already  it  was  like  a 
wind-torn  cloud,  unrolling,  dispel- 
ling, and  gone.  She  walked  slowly 
back  to  town. 
She  had  a  sandwich  in  a  depart- 
ment store  tea  room.  Afterwards 
she  took  the  elevator  up  to  the  in- 
fants' wear.  She  priced  the  diminu- 
tive shirts,  the  nightgowns.  There 
was  a  baby  shawl  of  blue  yarn,  beauti- 
fully woven,  incredibly  soft.  She 
fingered  it  gently,  seeing  her  baby 
wrapped  in  its  lovely  folds.  'Til 
take  it/'  she  said  to  the  clerk. 
She  held  the  package  close  against 
her,  walking  down  the  aisle  of  the 
store.  Suddenly,  she  stood  still.  If 
a  shawl  could  do  so  much  for  her, 
make  the  baby  seem  so  near  .  .  . 
"Why,  of  course,"  she  said  aloud, 
and  went  swiftly  to  the  yard  goods' 
counter.  She  bought  a  square  of 
pink  silk,  shimmering  and  beautiful. 
She  tucked  it  carefully  with  the 
other  package  and  went  smiling  to- 
wards the  bus  corner. 
Danny  was  in  the  garage.  She 
could  hear  him  hammering  lustily  on 
a  piece  of  steel.  He  looked  up  as 
her  shadow  fell  on  him.  He  grinned. 
"I'm  making  an  air-cooling  system 
for  the  house.  You'll  really  like  it, 
it  won't  be  nearly  so  noisy  as  last 
summer." 
Carol  repressed  a  shudder.  "It 
sounds  wonderful.  By  the  way, 
Danny,  do  you  think  you  could 
make  a  cradle?" 
"A  cradle?" 
"You  see,  this  woman  is  going  to 
have  a  baby  and  she  has  her  heart 
set  on  an  old-fashioned  cradle.  The 
stores  don't  carry  them,  and  I  hap- 
pened to  think  of  you.  I'm  just  sure 
you  could  make  her  one." 
Danny  rubbed  his  nose  with  an 
oil-smeared  hand.  "Sure,  I  could. 
Gosh,  never  saw  a  cradle  except  in 
pictures.  But  I  could  do  it."  He 
lifted  his  head  hopefully.  "Say, 
would  she  want  a  self-rocker?  I 
think  I  could  get  a  motor?" 
Carol  repressed  her  horrified  out- 
cry. "She  might,"  she  managed  to 
say. 
He  nodded  loftily.  "Okay.  I'll 
do  it." 
She  went  hastily  away  before  the