[Vol56 | May 1969 | Page 400 | General Feature | Editorial— A Blessing for the Hemispheres Vesta | P. Crawford]
[Editorial— A Blessing for the Hemispheres Vesta P. Crawford]

''No state nor people figure more prominantly in the story of the Pacific Railroad than do Utah and Utahns, particularly the Mormons." The Mormon Trail, the road to the Rockies, became the general route of the railroad. As early as 1849, Utah's delegate to Congress introduced a bill ''for construction of a railroad from the Atlantic to the Pacific."' This is the story of the continental link that was built, almost in spite of men and raging animosities. Once started, you'll want to finish this amazing story in one sitting. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92668 Please send me copies of THE IRON TRAIL TO THE GOLDEN SPIKE Meme Cost$ I enclose check [] money order [] Charge established account (1) Residents of Utah ordering from Salt Lake add 412% sales tax, residents of California add 5% tax when ordering from Orange. May R. S. Mag. 69 Put Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah the magic of Sugarplum Land Suggests this simply delicious dessert for family raves FLUFFY COCOA CAKE 1 cup U and I Y2 cup hot water dry ingredients to creamed mixture. SUGAR 1% cup shortening 1 teaspoon soda 1 egg 2 cup cocoa 1% cups flour Stir in buttermilk. Add another % dry 4 teaspoon salt ingredients, then water-cocoa mixture, 3% cup buttermilk ending with remainder of dry ingredients. Avoid overbeating. Bake in greased and Cream sugar with shortening and floured 9-inch-square pan at 350° F for egg; dissolve cocoa in hot water; set 40 minutes. Serve with whipped cream aside to cool; sift flour, soda and flavored with a dash of cinnamon and salt together. Combine 4 of sifted sweetened with U and I powdered sugar. UL Where is Sugarplum Land? It's all around you if you live where sugarbeets are grown. U and I Sugar sweetens the economy of these areas. U and I SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington.

blessing for me to have the Magazine, for usually I am a long way from our home ward as we move so often. I especially enjoy the Magazine and all the Relief Society organizations I visit, for I never feel alone or as a stranger. Leah Hancock Standiford, Taylor, Arizona I was so interested in the article "Who Will Show Her How?" (about handicrafts) by Dorothy F. Condry in the January Magazine. I feel that I am a kindred spirit. I like the poetry of Gladys Hesser Burnham very much. She was a schoolmate of mine. Mrs. Myron Hansen, Collinston, Utah The Relief SOCICTY Magazine volume 56 May 1969 Number 5 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford of Relief Society ay AT Marion Rogers and Leonora Smith Rogers @ Mother's rendition of "Catch the Sunshine" was a vigorous accompaniment to the staccato of her heels as they traversed the kitchen floor—back and forth—back and forth. These sounds, together with the rattle of pots and pans, announced that the Saturday routine had begun. My mother was and is a great believer in keeping the Sabbath Day holy and has always been an exemplar of how advance preparation and planning can assure proper observance of the day and, at the same time, provide the family restful comfort and a good midday dinner served with "singleness of heart" Sunday noon. We children were allowed 324 ReCe IIS \ a to stay in bed slightly longer on Saturday mornings; yet our share of the work awaited us. As each of us girls became old enough, she was given responsibility for placing clean _ bed linens on our beds, sweeping and dusting our rooms, folding hair ribbons, and otherwise bringing order and cleanliness to our bedrooms. We also had some duties of a less personal nature. My sisters and I must sweep the porches and walks which extended halfway around the house, dust the furniture, and sometimes "run through the house with the mop," Mother's descriptive term for a dry mop dusting of the hardwood floors. My _ brother: must keep the woodbox filled with chopped wood and cedar chips for mother's big black Monarch stove. Most of the time, we children worked at snail's pace interspersed with a little "horseplay," unless motivated by a desire to finish so that we might join a playmate or unless urged to finish by a "certain tone" in mother's voice. One Saturday job, rotated among the four of us, was that tedious task of churning our butter. The wooden barrel-like churn, with its tall dasher, was rolled into the center of the kitchen floor, and the child assigned was shrouded in a big bib apron. 'With Singleness of Heart"' Pound, pound, splash! Pound, pound, splash! On and on she toiled until, at long last, tiny curds of butter appeared on the lid and mother took over, gathering, lifting the yellow ball of butter from its milk, washing, salting, and molding the finished product. Ten loaves of bread lay rising in the big black pans and a pot of beans for Saturday night supper simmered on the stove by midmorning. Certain parts of Saturday seemed endless—hair was shampooed with "caught" rain water and homemade soap, shoes were shined, Sunday dresses pressed, and Dad's Sunday suit and white shirt were scrutinized. What a busy day! But on Sunday morning, a quiet calm reigned throughout the clean house as the family prepared to attend Sabbath meetings. Mother's first activity on Sunday morning centered on assisting my father in any way needed to get ready to attend priesthood meeting, then she had a few restful moments to herself, after which she assisted in the tying of hair ribbons, buttoning of dresses and shoes for the children, so that all would be on time for Sunday School. As very young children, we did not fully comprehend nor appreciate the value of this lesson being taught us, but all of us have greatly benefited The Missionary Family—Standing in_ front, left to right: Mayola Rogers Miltenberger, Louise Rogers Preston, Bess Rogers Ericksen. Seated in rear: Leonora Smith Rogers (mother) holding baby Marion Roscoe Rogers, born after Father's departure for a foreign mission. 

3 May 1969

 by it, as we have the home training we received in other aspects. For example, Church service was always a part of life at home no matter what was asked. Devoted response to requests of the leaders of the Church was a tradition on both sides of the family. My grandparents went to Arizona to help colonize at the call of Brigham Young, which they did at great sacrifice inasmuch as it involved leaving comfortable homes and _ dear ones and coming to a remote, difficult area. My father's and mother's willing and obedient service to the Church was an example to us in many ways and at many times throughout our lives, but it was no more clearly demonstrated than when I was about nine or ten years old. We were then a family of three children (and another one on the way), when my father was asked to fill a mission in England. It was not unusual for men with families, as well as single men, to be asked to go. I cannot remember the details of the family deliberations, but my father's departure is still vivid in my memory. I recently read an excerpt from Mother's Journal which illustrates: The bishop spoke to Marion [my father] about a mission and after he explained our "condition" and talked it over with me [my mother], decided to accept the call. I was five months along in a pregnancy, but felt quite willing to make the sacrifice and trust to a Higher Power to watch over us so he could go. Dad had sufficient funds from a successful road contract to see him through the mission, but 326 Mother had to provide for herself and us children. She did this, after my brother's birth, two months after my father left, by taking schoolteachers and student boarders from our local high school. The Lord greatly blessed our family and my father during this time and provided another tremendous lesson to the children. For as far back as I can remember, the women in Mother's family have been active Relief Society workers. Therefore, the term "Relief Society" conjured up many mental images and responses in us children. When one of my sisters was a little girl of about four or five years of age, she wandered next door to observe a_ non-Latter-day Saint man at work in his carpenter shop. He was smoking. Said Louise, "They don't like you to smoke, Mr. Chafee." "Who doesn't like me to smoke, Louise?" he inquired