[Vol56 | May 1969 | Page 366 | General Feature | Mothers Emily | T. Wilkerson]
—Grace Diane Jessen 363 \ ll > telah ( Mer, \ Emily T. Wilkerson rf f J é, ™ _ ~ Pat oe Pa —™ a. ' f. A - a* Mothers are many things: They are the sweethearts of fathers. They are comforting arms for tiny babies. They are nurses for all the family. They are counselors for growing children. They are words of encouragement when there is an obstacle to overcome. They are aids to all the teachers that children have. Mothers are people who never need anything for themselves if their children are in need. A mother is a person who knows the ache in her heart but sends her children into the world with a smile on her face and words of confidence from her heart. A mother knows the great good that is deep in the hearts of her children. A mother prays for her loved ones. A mother's joy is in the righteousness of her children. A mother's courage is in her faith in God. A mother feels the responsibility of her children, for she realizes they are the children of God, and she is aware of the need for their good training. A mother is grateful for the planned lessons given in the different auxiliaries of the Church, for she knows they are inspired helps for her in training the precious spirits entrusted to her by the Lord. A mother is that person who becomes that wonderful grandmother. We are truly grateful to the Lord for his great generosity when he gave us mothers. Dtograph by Dorothy J. Roberts els: Sharon Morgan Berrett, Mother, and Melissa Morgan, child. 365 UWI Uraperies Edythe K. Watson, Member General Board of Relief Society Photography by Dorothy J. Roberts These beautiful curtains displayed by Mary Frances Watson, were purchased in Dusseldorf, Germany, and are typical of the many lovely varieties seen throughout that country. They give the windows a warm yet luxurious effect. M@ It all started with fourteen and a half yards of pretty pink and white chintz drapery fabric purchased from a sale table for only fifty cents a yard. The material was an excellent quality and was reduced to one-fourth its original cost. Happily it provided the basis for a family project which put excitement in the air for days and gave lasting satisfaction and enjoyment to every family member for a job well done. The results were a lovely and attractive bedroom for our five-year-old granddaughter Jill. The drapery fabric inspired my daughter and me to make our first pleated draperies. I had made many sets of curtains and draperies for my kitchen, bathrooms, and bedrooms over the years, but they had always been either the shirred ruffly kind or simple tailored ones with a conventional heading. To 366 make pleated drapes was something quite different. Their making proved to be fun and quite easy to do. Since then I have made draw draperies for my kitchen windows and curtained and draped my bedroom windows. My curtains were especially interesting to work with since I had purchased them in Germany and German decorating methods are quite different from the American ways. It is a beautiful and interesting sight to ride through the towns and cities of Europe and observe the varieties of window treatment. Every country has its own distinctive and charming style which seems to identify with the personalities and the people of that country. I was intrigued with the beautiful curtained windows of the German homes. They always seemed to look fresh and inviting. Often the curtains I added a simple quilted valance over these windows, made from the fabric of a matching bedspread. They were very easy and inexpensive to install, yet add a finish to the room. Were hung high enough to allow space above the sill to hold a flower box. Such a lovely sight! I felt fortunate to bring some of these curtains home for my own use. Windows, as it appears to me, are an important part of a home. Usually they set the scheme of interior decoration and the everyday passerby may even judge the occupants of a home by what he sees from the outside. Draperies or window hangings were used originally to insulate a room against the weather, the cold in winter and the heat in summer, and were usually just lengths of heavy dark fabrics, with no thought in mind to beautify or enhance a room. Today draperies and curtains have come into their own. Myriads of exciting colors and designs are available. The making of draperies, curtains, or sheers can This original design for a den was made by Sister Jean Tolich at a nominal cost, yet it is very attractive. A black and white mattress ticking was the fabric used, with a black fringe for trim. The walls were also covered with this same material. Bright colored accessories for accent were added to the room. Be fun and _ rewarding both aesthetically and financially. Have you ever tried to make your own draperies or curtains? From my limited experience I have learned that you need not be a professional seamstress. All that is really required of you is that you can sew a straight seam, put in a simple hem, and be willing to learn a few tricks of the trade. To assure success in 367 follow these drapery making, basic rules. Learn All You Can About Drapery Making and Fabrics Before You Begin Look through the home decorator magazines. You may find a clever drapery or curtain idea to make your room_ something special. Visit the library for books on drapery making. Most every city and country would have their own sources of information. Many furniture and department stores have made-up 368 PRIOR. PREIS INE "Say 2 we, <a. Boos gees A lovely soft gold was. The color chosen for this bedroom. The valance is of velvet and the draperies a sheer held back by gold cording and tassel. The blind was made from the same fabric used in the bedspread. Models, and with the purchase of materials from them, they are happy to provide you with excellent written information compiled by leading authorities on the subject. Sister Lorainne Bagnell, an experienced and capable drapery designer and seamstress, gave an excellent demonstration with detailed instructions including some special tricks of the trade, in the homemaking department of the Relief Society Annual General Conference in 1967. This was published in the homemak- ' "- ' » _—. - ee ee i ee A ba. - ~ i ae:. %. A.. ' - ae oe 2 oe ee Fe --4 F see ye «3 4m «( These delightful and practical draperies were made by Sister Margaret Arnold for her young son's room. A valance and border were made from border print of blue and red marching soldiers. This trim was most effective on the white fabric of the drapery. Knitting yarn tassels were used for accent. Sister Jean Tolich created this attractive window trimming in her son's bedroom from red felt, with black yarn tassels as trimming. A minimum of sewing was required yet the overall effect of this room is very interesting. Ing booklet. I was able to follow her detailed instructions from the booklet as I made my draperies. Choose Your Fabrics With Care There are many beautiful miracle fabrics on the market today. Choose the one best suited to your needs. If you have a family of young children you may wish to choose asturdy material, easy to launder and care for. If your household consists of adults, you may wish to choose a more elegant, less sturdy fabric. Don't buy inferior material. It takes the same amount of work to make up poor quality material and the results can be disappointing. Buy the best material you can afford, but remember the price tag does not always denote the quality. If you are timid about making draperies for the first time, don't buy material which is too expensive. Very attractive draperies can be made from colored sheets. They lend themselves well to many varieties of trim, they are color fast (at least as much so as any material subjected for long periods to the sun's rays), they launder beautifully, and they come in lovely colors, stripes, and prints, and are usually less costly than many other fabrics. Watch sales in_ reputable stores. Many excellent fabrics are reduced to clear stocks at certain times of the year. Know your fabrics, and don't buy some- 369 Sr ntanaee 1 seaman a ace nna ne an Hanon NO Mg t tg This window was too small for the effect Sister Margaret Arnold wanted, so she extended the rods on both sides several inches,. Made the draperies ceiling high and added extra fullness. The results were most satisfactory. ¥ gr — ot ae = ET —. » ~~ > wReHR = & & ~~ ~~" This charming and practical kitchen window treatment is made from a lovely fabric in colors of orange, yellow, and brown. Sister Margaret Arnold used a drapery from the same material to decorate a large window in the adjoining family room. Exact measurements were very important in making and installing this blind and canopy. Thing you don't want just because you think it is a bargain. Look for fabrics that have a permanent finish, are water and soil repellent, are preshrunk, color-fast (vat-dyed), have a firm weave, and are soft and drapable. Although soft fabrics are more traditionally used, don't be afraid to try something different. Even felt can be used in an interesting manner to drape a window in a tailored fashion. Though felt is fairly stiff, lt is very attractive for a teenager's room. Allow sufficient material to make a full drape. Use less expensive fabric if your funds are limited, rather than make a skimpy drapery. You will need double the rod measurement for 370 draperies and three to four times the width of the rod for sheers. Study and Understand the Anatomy of the Windows You Wish to Cover Don't feel limited if your windows are small. You can change the whole effect. By a clever manipulation of rod and fabric. Understand How to Measure a Window Correctly The same rules can be followed for measuring. All varieties of windows. Measure each window individually, even though they are in the same room and appear to be exact in size. Sometimes window sizes may vary several inches in the same room and in corresponding positions. I found this to be true in my own kitchen. Have a paper and _ pencil handy. Measure accurately and write down every measurement. Don't depend on your memory— it may fail you. Make Certain You Have the Right Equipment a. Have sufficient space on which to lay, measure, and cut your material. A young friend of mine who made most of the draperies in her lovely new home, was greatly helped by a cutting table made by her husband. It was simple to make and inexpensive, well worth the effort because of the money saved by making their draperies. Your dining room table extended may do nicely. Pads designed especially for cutting material are now available in many stores. These can be used on a bed or the floor. I used my long counter in my kitchen and it worked very well. B. Make sure you have a good light. Don't work in a poorly lighted room. It could be the cause of a foolish mistake. C. Have your ironing board and iron in readiness. The same procedure should be used in drapery making as in sewing articles of clothing—press your seams as you sew. D. Have plenty of sharp pins. They can be used to designate spaces ar to hold your material in place. E. Use good needles and a thimble. F. Have sharp scissors. Long scissors are recommended for cutting. You may wish to use small scissors for clipping and detail work. G. Use a metal measuring tape. A fabric tape tends to stretch. A yard stick and ruler are useful, too. H. Notch a piece of cardboard the depth you are making your hems. This is much easier to handle than a ruler. I. Have your sewing machine in readiness. Make certain that all parts are wiped free of excess grease. Know where to set the tension for each weight of fabric. Make sure the machine needles are the proper size for your fabric. You may wish to check with the manuMake Your Own Draperies facturer's representative as to correct information on these subjects. Keep your hands clean at all times. See that no residue from hand cream or lotion remains on your fingers. Some fabrics absorb such residue quickly. A grease spot can spoil a lovely fabric. You may wish to sew parts of your draperies by hand. This gives a lovely effect, particularly to sheers. Don't be afraid to baste. This may save you countless stitches. Sister Bagnell gives the following helpful hints in measuring, cutting, and sewing draperies, with illustrations to assist you: How to Figure Yardage Width—measure rod area including returns (the part of the rod and bracket that extends from the bend in the rod to the wall) plus six inches for overlap where the panels meet, then double this measurement for proper fullness. If the total pleated width is sixty inches, you will need at least 120 inches of fabric. Length—measure one half inch above the rod to the length you want the drape finished, and add twelve inches if using three-inch crinoline, or sixteen inches if using four-inch crinoline. This allows for double hems at the bottom and double heading at the top. Crinoline is used in the top to give body to the material so that it will stand up and not droop when the draperies are drawn. It comes in three, four, and five-inch widths, but fourinch is usually the choice for draperies. If you are using a patterned fabric the following information will be helpful. Figure the length as above, and measure the length of the pattern repeat. Divide the length needed for the drape by the size of the pattern repeat. If the result is a fraction, order an additional repeat. 3m May 1969 Length needed, including hems and headings - - ~ - 76 inches Pattern repeat ____-_---10 inches Divide _____------ 76 by 10 - 7.6 Repeats needed Multiply the number of repeats needed by the size of the repeat for the length of the fabric needed—10x8 equals 80 inches, or 2 yards and 8 inches. A pair of single width draperies would require four yards and 16 inches. To Make Unlined Draperies When cutting drapery strips be sure to stretch out the fabric smoothly and measure straight and accurately. It is essential to cut on the true cross grain. This can be determined by pulling a thread or following an obvious cross thread. Using a yardstick or measuring tape on the selvage, measure and cut one strip to the exact total length, including hem and heading. Cut lower edge on true crossgrain also. This length can be used to measure the others, laying fabric out flat on top with edges pinned. If you have a patterned fabric, match patterns exactly on each length. If you have to join several widths, you may use a French seam or a lapped seam for a_ professional finish. Remove the selvage or else clip the selvage at intervals and press the first turn of the bottom hem—three or four inches. When making draperies, the general rule is to make the depth of the bottom hem the same as the depth of the heading. When making sheer curtains, you may want to have the bottom hem and heading as deep as five inches. Press a double hem at each side (1 or 1, inches), press the second 372 turn at the bottom hem, and sew around the drape with machine or by hand. If a large table is available, pin drape at bottom edge to a table, press, then measure from the hem to the correct length needed. Press material and fold double over crinoline. Pin or baste. To Make Pleats There are several ways to figure the pleating on draperies. A simple way is to figure fourinch spaces between each pleat. To determine the amount of fabric in each pleat and the number of spaces, measure the width of the rod across the front (not including rod return) and divide this by two to determine how much each panel will have to cover. For example, if the rod measures 36 inches, divided by two it would be 18 inches. Divide this by 4" which would make 4 4-inch spaces. There would be 5 pleats needed as there will always be one more pleat than spaces (see illustration). Pin the drape from the center front edge the width needed for the overlap, pin from the side edge the width needed for the return. If the space between these two pins measures 40 inches, we subtract the width of half the rod which is 18 inches, which leaves 22 inches for pleats. Divide 5 into 22 inches which equals 4% inches. This is the amount to be used in each pleat. Pin. I found that the easiest way to pleat your draperies is to divide the panel in half and work from the center. After pinning you should have 5 pleats 4', inches and 4 spaces. Sometimes it is necessary to make minor adjustments. To make a lovely, full drapery, it is always well to have the width of each pleat greater than the space between pleats. Draperies should be pinned according to the rod used. There should be one-half inch of drape above the rod. If you are timid about making hand-set pleats, there are some excellent pleater tapes available Make Your Own Draperies in drapery departments, and they are very easy to use and can help give the drapes a_ professional look. There are so many clever and fun ideas for fabrics and trims —use your imagination and ingenuity. Give your windows that special charm that will be yours alone. Add beauty and warmth to your home.