[Vol56 | May 1969 | Page 381 | Fiction | The Rebirth | Nancy Tuddenham]
[The Rebirth Nancy Tuddenham]

381 May 1969

 aching loneliness, Jennifer knew. Jennifer could feel a cold coming on as she went through the motions of preparing final lesson plans for Tuesday morning. She felt generally miserable. The ringing telephone interrupted her efforts. "Miss Miles," a cold, impersonal voice said, "I'm calling for Mr. Hansen, principal at the junior high school." "Yes," Jennifer responded, her heart quickening. Could something be wrong with Sam? "We are given to understand that you have assumed most of the responsibility for your three brothers since your mother passed away. Is this correct?" she asked. "Yes, that is correct. Is something wrong?" Jennifer asked breathlessly. "Mr. Hansen would like to talk with you in person. Could you come into the office at one o'clock today?" Jennifer was apprehensive. Sam obviously was in some kind of trouble. "Of course, I'll be there," she responded. As she finished the remainder of the lesson plans she began to worry. If Sam was in serious trouble what should her course of action be. Her father was going directly to a sales convention from this trip, and was not due home for ten days. It would not be possible to withhold discipline until he returned, of this she was certain. Mr. Hansen was quite a contrast from his impersonal secretary. He seemed _ genuinely friendly and warm; however, Jennifer had the feeling that he could be very firm, in fact quite 382 formidable if the occasion should call for that. He came directly to the point. "Miss Miles, has Sam been ill a great deal lately?" Jennifer was puzzled. 'No, except for the cold he had a month ago, he's been fine." "Then you haven't been keeping him home?" "No, Sir, I haven't." "Well, that's about the way I had it figured," he said, not unkindly. "You see, we have a group of five boys who have been missing school quite regularly at the same time. They are all wellbehaved and good students, and in observing, we have no' -d that they are good friends. It has been on the average of a half day or a day each week. We suspect that they could be found up at the old mill sleigh riding, apparently avoiding the Saturday and after-school crowds that congregate there. Jennifer, as a future school teacher, I think you know how serious this is." ald cnniter could hardly believe her ears. Sam skipping school! It was indeed serious. Truancy was not tolerated. "What would you suggest be done?" she asked falteringly. "Well, we are first talking to the parents and guardians of the boys. I don't think we'll let them know that their parents have been alerted. Tomorrow we'll call them in, but for you the element of surprise will be best. Of course they must be disciplined here at school, and although they aren't trouble-making lads as a rule, parental action is clearly indicated, mostly to avoid repeats and more serious violations of the rules." Jennifer knew this to be true. She thanked Mr. Hansen and left, her head spinning. She knew that she would have to act immediately, for the other parents would do the same. It was impossible to wait for their father's return. She wasn't certain as to how to approach the boy, or what his punishment should be. This was one task she didn't welcome. When dinner was finished, she told Dave and Pete that the walks needed to be _ shoveled, then called Sam into their father's den. "Sam, how is school coming?" she asked, trying to keep her voice light. He studied her for a moment, wondering what this was leading to. "All right," he answered guardedly. "Are you keeping up with your work all right?" "Oh, yes," he replied enthusiastically. Jennifer took a deep breath and went on. "You haven't missed very many days this year, have you? I want to keep the records straight on you boys." "No," he answered furtively. "Only the times when I had poison ivy last fall, and when I had that cold." "Are you sure that's all, Sam?" she asked hoping that he would confess before she had to accuse him, and not really knowing what she would do if he did. "Yeah," he muttered, his face turning a little crimson. "Sam, have you ever missed any school without my knowing?" He was becoming increasingly more nervous. "What do you Welcome the Task mean, how could I?" his voice rose in pitch. UJ ennifer restrained the impulse to get angry. In a carefully controlled voice, she said, "By going up to the old mill with Bob and the other boys instead of to school." "Sam squirmed uncomfortably. "I guess I did," he said in a low voice. "IT know you did," Jennifer told him. "Sam, you have not only broken the school rules, you have broken an important rule of our home, and of Heavenly Father. You deceived me_ by sneaking off, and you fibbed about it. Are you proud of yourself?" He hung his head. "No, I'm not," he mumbled. Jennifer could see the tears beginning to form in his eyes, yet knew she must carry out what she had started. Resisting the urge to take him in her arms and hug him, she said, "You realize that you must be punished, don't you?" "Yes." "What do you consider an adequate punishment?" He looked at her dumbly. "I'm waiting for a suggestion," she said after quite a period of silence. "fT can't think of anything," he finally said, his voice barely above a whisper. "I won't do it again, though, ever," he insisted brightly. "I hope not," she said, "but we still have to punish you. Very well, I shall choose one." She was silent for a few moments, and he sat tensely awaiting her decision. "You will not be able 

383 May 1969

 to leave the yard after school or on week-ends for a period of one month, except to attend Church meetings." "Do I have to miss the ski trip to Alta?" he cried. "Yes, Sam, I'm afraid so. And don't pester me to relent and change my mind, or Ill add more time to the punishment," she threatened. "Also, you will have to tell Dad what you have done, when he returns." Sam took his punishment well, but was subdued when he left the room.. Jennifer rubbed her neck. She was feeling the effects of the cold worse than ever. She hoped that she hadn't been too rough on the boy, and that he had learned his lesson. She went into the kitchen to do the dinner dishes. Dave was talking on the telephone, apparently to a girl, judging by the way he was guarding his conversation, and Pete was pouring over an algebra book, with the radio going full blast. As she walked by she turned the volume down on the radio. "What did you do that for?" he snapped. "You can't study with that thing going," she told him reasonably. "IT can, too. You don't know what you're talking about," he said boldly. _ Her first impulse was a violent one, but with an effort she controlled it. "Peter, go to your room. Take the book and leave the radio." "Yes, your majesty," he said angrily, rising quickly. Jennifer stared after him as he ascended the stairs, stomping loudly. What had she done to prompt that outburst? She wondered. Glancing out of the window, she noticed that the walks had not been shoveled. As soon as Dave hung up she challenged him. "I thought I asked you boys to shovel the walks." "Why should we? It's just - going to snow again. It won't do any good. I'll do it when I'm ready." There was a hint of a challenge in his voice, and she knew her authority was being resented, and his look was more proof. Jennifer sighed wearily. She had noticed this tone more and more often lately. Probably this was where Pete was getting his boldness. "All right, David, go and get the other boys, and we'll meet in the den." Something in her tone told him that he had best obey. "Sit down boys," she instructed as they filed in, each avoiding her eyes. "There seems to be something wrong here, and I think we had better get it straightened out before it gets any worse. I know I make mistakes, and perhaps you have occasional reasons to resent my authority. I realize that you are all growing up. I'm sorry if I've made mistakes, but were all only human, we cannot be perfect. I know this has been hard for you to accept, having me try to take Mother's place, but you're stuck with that. If you have any real complaints, I think this would be a good time to air them." Avi three boys stared at the floor. Finally Jennifer said, "Dave, I think a word of prayer is in order." As David prayed, Jennifer could feel the bleakness beginning to lift. She admired the way he expressed himself to Heavenly Father on behalf of all of them. When he finished, she was certain that there would be no more trouble for awhile. Pete was the first to speak. "Jenny, I'm sorry I behaved so badly. I know that you are boss, and that you know best. I really can't concentrate as I should with the radio going full blast. Please forgive me," he said humbly. Sam spoke up, "Jenny, I won't ever tell you any more lies, and I won't ask you to let me go places when you've said I can't." "And you won't skip school anymore?" "No, sir!" phatically. He grinned emWelcome the Task Dave came over and put an awkward arm about her shoulder. "I haven't been very much help to you, and I should be. That's going to change now, I promise to do better," and Jennifer knew he had grown up a little more. Jennifer's cold settled in, but the misery did not last long, and family life seemed to be going more smoothly than ever. Soon it would be spring, and time for new starts again. Dave would be graduating. Jennifer thought how their mother would like to have seen that day, and there were so many others she would like to have shared. Then would come Dave's mission, and soon Pete would be following in his footsteps, and only Sam would be left at home. She wondered idly how long she would be needed there. Perhaps those stories about old maid school teachers would apply to her one day. Jim was in Salt Lake attending law school full time, and was busier than usual. The long drive from Salt Lake ate into his schedule. Steve, too, was deeply involved in his studies, and Jennifer admitted that studies were a good excuse for being busy, for her own were often hard to complete. One rare evening when she was home alone, reading a book, Steve's familiar tap on the door brought her back from the world of school teaching. He seated himself on the couch. He had been so busy with his studies that he had not been over for several days, and then only briefly. They made small talk for awhile, then he asked, "How about me taking my best girl dancing a week from Satur- 

385 May 1969

 day? It is the spring formal, you know." She could hardly believe it. Steve taking her dancing! She loved to dance, but he could take it or leave it, and when it came to formal affairs, he preferred the latter. "I hope your hesitation isn't a refusal," he said gently. "Oh, no! [''m just astonished. I'd love to go," she answered sincerely. "Good," he said as though he really meant it. They discussed his. Master's thesis, which he obviously loved doing, for he was a writer at heart, and Jennifer knew that he had not abandoned his dream of writing and publishing a novel. Often he had said that there was so much in the Latter-day Saint heritage that could and should still be told. Jennifer had heard this many times, and believed it, and believed that Steve could do it, for his mind was set in that direction. Just after he left, the telephone rang. Supposing it to be one of the girls who had been calling Dave, she was not too friendly when she answered the phone. "Jenny? Jim. How have you been?" "Well, just fine. How are you? How was the debate trip?" "Just great, we took four first places." Jennifer assumed that this was quite an accomplishment and reacted accordingly. "Hey," he finally said, "my fraternity ball is coming up a week from Saturday, and I also have a very important question to ask, and I'll want an answer. Is it a date?" (To be concluded) Finally, After long millenia, trimmed now With forest, the samite peaks emerge, \ Vistas above the plain, their vast calm Memoried with violence.