[Vol56 | May 1969 | Page 357 | General Feature | The Everlasting Hills Joyce | B. Maughan]
The Rebirth Nancy Tuddenham Katherine, Northern Territory, Australia m@ What on earth had made her say she would come out to this forsaken place with her husband? Sue sat on the camp chair outside the caravan, and drooped. The blazing sun shone out of a brazen blue sky, bare of clouds. The flies came around in droves and stuck, crawling, into her hair and eyes. She swished at them viciously. Here she was stuck in the middle of the bush, in the middle of Australia—well, nearly, anyway. Dust, flies, ants, hornets, and goodness knows what. Ah, she could weep. One had to carry one's own water, with no electricity, and the gas-bottle empty. The meat was going bad. And weep Sue did, as she thought of all this, and how they came out here. 358 Two months ago her husband Jim had come home from work all excited. "I've got it, honey," he called as he came through the door, letting it slam behind him. "I've got the job on the Road —think what it will mean— more money to pay off our debts, a holiday for you in the fresh air away from the smog." And on he went about all the things they could do, all the benefits of this venture. So it happened, packing the caravan, packing the things at home. Rush! She was exhausted by the time they left. Fortunately, they had no children. They didn't want any, well, to be honest, she didn't.

[The Everlasting Hills Joyce B. Maughan]

Jim would have liked children —but she didn't want her rou- tine upset by babies. She had to leave her job to go on this wild goose chase as it was. With a baby! Ah, my goodness, never! They were camped, along with some other married couples, in the rough Australian bush in the Northern Territory where the Beef Road was being built. It was late April, just after the wet season, and the countryside was at its best. The spinifex shone green and gold, even now the spines turning yellow with the hot sun. The ghost gums were clean and fresh looking, with their gray-white boles that shone in the sun and moonlight. The crows were numerous, along with the gray and rose galahs, and the white cockatoos. The bright red and green parrots made the bush ring with their raucous cries. She just sat there, really quite an attractive young woman, brown eyes and hair, fair complexion. Her age—just thirty. Wd ust then around the corner came a young woman. "Hello there! My name is June. I'm from the van over the way there," she said, pointing to a pretty little van with an awning and a tidy litter around it. "Isn't it beautiful today? Lovely sunshine, clear air, better than your city smog any time. Don't you love it out here?" She rattled on. "Wide open spaces, birds, trees, no rush, no traffic jams." Sue had looked up in surprise. At first she was speechless, but it wasn't noticed because June kept on talking. But then she found her tongue.