[Vol43 | October 1956 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting Teacher Messages—Book of Mormon Gems of Truth | Author: Leone O. Jacobs]
cJeacher    lib 
tstting  cjeacner   1 1  tessages> 
Book  of  Mormon  Gems  of  Truth 
Lesson  44— "And  Wo  Be  Unto  Him  That  Will  Not  Hearken  Unto  the  Words 
of  Jesus,  and  Also  to  Them  Whom  He  Hath  Chosen  and  Sent  Among 
Them;  For  Whoso  Receiveth  Not  the  Words  of  Jesus  and  the  Words 
of  Those  Whom  He  Hath  Sent  Receiveth  Not  Him;  and  Therefore 
He  Will  Not  Receive  Them  at  the  Last  Day"  (3  Nephi  28:34). 
Leone  O.  Jacobs 
For  Tuesday,  January  8,  1957 
Objective:  To  point  out  that  hearkening  to  the  words  of  Jesus  and  to  the  words 
of  those  whom  he  has  chosen  to  lead  the  Church  are  required  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
TN  the  above  quotation  Mormon 
gives  us  two  closely  related 
principles  fundamental  to  our 
Church.  The  first  one  is  that  it  we 
accept  Jesus  as  the  Christ,  we  must 
also  accept  his  words  and  his  doc- 
trine. Jesus  and  his  words  are  in- 
separable. He  is  what  he  has 
taught.  Secondly,  it  is  required  that 
we  wholeheartedly  accept  those  who 
are  ordained  to  act  as  his  represent- 
atives and  that  we  accept  their 
words.  This  acceptance  is  an  indi- 
cation that  we  accept  the  Lord  and 
his  words. 
In  the  General  Church  Confer- 
ence of  April  1955,  Elder  George 
O.  Morris  stated: 
...  it  is  our  most  serious  duty  in  life 
to  know  him  [the  Lord]  and  love  him 
....  The  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  not  on 
trial  before  the  world  ....  The  world 
is  on  trial  before  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  we  will  have  to  account  for  the  atti- 
tude taken  toward  him  and  his  message, 
and  we  cannot  accept  him  without  accept- 
ing his  principles  and  his  doctrines  .... 
Another  thing  that  the  world  must  under- 
stand if  thev  will  know  the  truth  ...  is 
that  those  who  receive  or  reject  the  teach- 
ings and  testimonies  and  admonitions  of 
the  servants  of  God  receive  or  reject  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  He  said  to  the  seventy 
when  he  sent  them  out  to  preach  the 
gospel:  "He  that  heareth  you  heareth  me; 
and  he  that  despiseth  you  despiseth 
me  .  .  ."  (Luke  10:16.  125th  Annual 
Conference  With  Report  ot  Discourses, 
pp.    101-102).
