[Vol43 | October 1956 | Sequence: 08 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Nielsen]
EDITORIAL © VOL. 


 NO. 10 Study Courses Availeth Much GAIN with October, comes the opportunity for women to participate in a formal-type of education as offered in the study courses of Relief Society. Relief Society classes provide women an academic atmosphere in which to gain knowledge in the theological, homemaking, literary, and social science areas of study during the years when their opportunities to attend formal classes are seemingly past. The stimulation which the mind receives in the formal learning process is often neglected as a mother's responsibilities increase with her family. In her busy, unselfish life of meeting the needs of her family, she may be unable to find time to devote to gaining mental growth in some of these various areas of learning. 'Through participating in the weekly classes of Relief Society a woman not only gains mental growth for herself, but acquires knowledge which she can share with her family. Her attitudes concerning her responsible position in the home, which is an important factor involved with the family's happiness, may broaden as she achieves a stimulation in her thinking through the avenue of learning available at Relief Society, and which is designed especially for her. It is a true prinPage 660 ciple as the physical body attains its goals likewise must the spiritual body achieve successes. By studying the literature lessons an insight into the writings of the greatest authors and poets is gained. Information is imparted which will stimulate the mind to a greater enjoyment and comprehension of the masterpieces of literature. The factors of a secure family life and other social aspects are incorporated for study in the social science lessons. Challenges to learning of theological principles are presented. Home management problems, similar to those which often confront a mother in her own home, are discussed and studied. Integrated with the Relief Society study courses are projects and programs in which much of the gained knowledge can be applied. With the acquisition of knowledge comes an eternal blessing. 'To the Prophet Joseph Smith was revealed: "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain to in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection" (D. & C. 130:18). The Relief Society presents unlimited opportunities for claiming blessings during this life and through eternity. —J. N.