[Vol43 | October 1956 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Healthy | Author: You]
Healthy, Happy, Lucky You AN UNENDING DEBT Be Honest with Yourself I T was the day before Mary's marriage. Her mind was flashing over the exciting occurrences of the day and foretasting the joys of her life ahead. As she anticipated the rich promise, the words of the poster in the ward meetinghouse last Sunday seemed to speak themselves aloud, "Healthy, Happy, Lucky You! Be Honest with Yourself." Never had Mary felt healthier, happier, or luckier than tonight— although she did not feel that the "luckier" was by chance. It was the last four words that caused her mind to check itself and concentrate. "Be Honest with Yourself." Mary's heart sank and then lifted in gratitude as she relived an experience of two years ago. That night had been a turning point in her life. Mary again seemed to hear the warning counsel of her mother, counsel which, until that night, had never called for action on Mary's part. Counsel which then had aroused Mary and brought her through to safety. Mary's heart sang with joy as she realized that the clean, healthy body she had inherited from her parents had been kept pure by her. Being honest with herself made Mary wonder what her life might have been without the teachings of the gospel. And beyond her parents' example she recalled herself as a young child kneeling in family prayer at her grandparents' home. Ahead. For Mary lay health and happiness. She knew she was indebted to many people for this blessed opportunity. Before sleep faded the picture of Bob, the temple, and her family, Mary decided she had found the honest answer. The obligation for obtaining health and happiness was a never-ending chain of conduct and_ teaching, reaching forward to generations unborn. Mary resolved that she and Bob would try honestly to pay their debt in their turn. Page 66] Recipes From the French Mission Submitted by Rachael L. Lee NorManpy F isH 1 lb. White fish (halibut, sole, 1 tbsp. Butter ot haddock) 1 tbsp. Flour hard-boiled egg » GC water 1 small can shrimps tsp. Lemon juice or vinegar small can mushrooms yy aa cream c. Shell macaroni — he Melt the butter in a kettle. Add the flour and mix well. Add the water and lemon juice or vinegar and stir well until the mixture boils. Add the fish, egg, cut into small pieces, shrimps, mushrooms, and cooked macaroni. Cover and cook for ten minutes. Just before serving add the cream. Makes four servings. Onion Soup medium-sized onions 1 qt. Water 2 tbsp. Butter 8 slices of toast Slice the onions very fine and lightly brown in the butter. Then add water and boil gently for ten minutes. Into each of four baking dishes place a slice of toast covered with grated cheese and a little of the onion soup. Then put another slice of toast covered with grated cheese and the rest of the onion soup into the baking dish. Top with grated cheese and place in a moderately hot oven for ten minutes. Serve in the baking dishes. Makes four servings. FRENCH MAYONNAISE 2 egg yolks 1 tsp. Mild prepared mustard 1/6 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Vinegar 1/8 tsp. Pepper vegetable oil 1/4 tsp. Strong prepared mustard or Beat the egg yolks slightly, then add liquid vegetable oil in a very thin stream while constantly beating the mixture until desired texture and flavor are reached. When half of the desired amount is reached, add the vinegar. Continue beating and adding oil until the desired amount of mayonnaise is reached. As much as a pint can be made from two egg yolks. This mayonnaise should be used soon after making, as it does not store well. It may be served on any vegetable salad, with fish, cold meats, asparagus, or artichokes. VEAL PAUPIETTES small veal steaks, flattened very thin 4 thin slices of uncooked ham Mix together the following dressing ingredients: % Ib. Sausage % C. Milk "" Ib. Liver (pork or beef) ground 2 slices bread 2 tbsp. Chopped onions % tsp. _ salt % tsp. Chopped garlic (if desired) " tsp. Pepper "% tsp. Nutmeg Page 662 RECIPES FROM THE FRENCH MISSION 663 On each veal steak place a slice of ham and one fourth of the dressing mixture. Roll each paupiette and tie in two places with a string. 2 tbsp. Cooking oil 1 ¢. Water 1 tbsp. Flour I 1 tsp. _- vinegar Put the cooking oil or other fat in a kettle and lightly brown the meat rolls. Add the flour and stir well into the oil. Add water and vinegar.