[Vol43 | October 1956 | Sequence: 25 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far

Congratulations to the authors of "Written at Sunset," by Dorothy J. Roberts; "Woodland Wonder," by Elsie McKinnon Strachan; and "I Need the Stars," by Grace Barker Wilson — such lovely poems in the August issue of the Magazine.
—Thelma Ireland
McGill, Nevada

I want to express my appreciation for the wonderful Relief Society Magazine. There is so much wisdom and joy to be gained from each issue. The things I have learned from the Magazine are proving very valuable in rearing my two babies, twenty-seven months and eleven months old.
—Mrs. L. E. Olson
Inglewood, California

I think the plan of having recipes and pictures from the missions of the Church is a wonderful idea. No doubt we will all learn something to spice up our meals and appetites.
—Rachael L. Lee
President French Mission Relief Society
Paris, France

I enjoy The Relief Society Magazine very much. It is always a wonder to me that we can get so much for so little. I am so thankful that, through the Magazine, even though I cannot attend meetings, I can still keep up with the lessons and helps.
—Flo Whittemore
Soda Springs, Idaho

The Relief Society Magazine has been a part of our home life for a long time. It has been of continued genuine worth to generations of our family.
—Elder Morris D. Shields
St. Albans, Vermont

Your wonderful Magazine is always appreciated, but as I read "Home" (frontispiece poem) in the August issue, by Catherine Berry, tears filled my heart and spilled out of my eyes. I have been especially homesick this summer for Montana, and the poem expresses so perfectly how I feel, and, after so many years away, "the haunting need of it that calls you back." Thank you for every fine issue, but mostly for this poem.
—Brucia Gordon Crane
Mink Creek, Idaho

I have taken the Magazine for years and enjoy every page very much. I want to thank you especially for the pictures and messages from the wives of the General Authorities of the Church (August 1956). I know everyone was very pleased to see them and to read their sweet messages. It made me feel I could say "Hello" to each of them. The majority of the Church members seldom, if ever, get to see these dear women.
—Pearl Evans
Salt Lake City, Utah
