[Vol43 | October 1956 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Adams]
[POETRY Magic Call — Frontispiece Catherine E. Berry 641 Harvest Warning Eva Willes Wangsgaard 648 Autumn Pageant Grace Barker Wilson 649 Metal World Dorothy J. Roberts 654 To a Pioneer Grandmother Elsie McKinnon Strachan 663 Night Incident Lael W. Hill 665 Words Ida Isaacson 675 Prelude to Winter Miranda Snow Walton 680 I Thank Thee Caroline Eyring Miner 685 October Vesta N. Lukei 691 Sunflowers Luella N. Adams]
them  is  so  charmingly  simple,  since 
it  comes  with  complete  spontaneity. 
Without  doubt,  the  world  of  fan- 
tasy feeds  their  deepest,  most  real 
hungers,  and  the  chant,  "Mommy, 
tell  me  a  story"  echoes  down  the 
ages  as  proof  that  humankind,  at 
least,  in  its  unspoiled  innocence,  has 
no  question  about  the  superior 
values  of  living  in  the  play-world 
which  is  only  a  miniature  of  grown- 
up actuality.  Why  else  do  little 
girls  cherish  dolls  and  tiny  stoves 
"that  really  light  up,"  while  little 
boys  mirror  their  fathers  almost  to 
make  fathers  ashamed,  demanding 
saws  and  hammers,  model  trains 
and  planes,  submarines  and  torpe- 
does and,  now,  jets? 
The  Function  of  Art 
Whenever  we  yield  and  tell  our 
children  a  story,  we  fulfill  the  same 
relation  to  them  as  our  artists  do  to 
us.  It  has  ever  been  thus,  and,  to 
judge  from  the  booming  present- 
day  sale  of  classical  records,  radios, 
TV's,  magazines,  and  books,  and 
attendance  at  movies  and  concerts, 
that  need  is  a  consistent  one.  As 
modern  man's  leisure  increases,  so 
does  his  need  for  entertainment, 
most  of  which  is  concerned  with 
recreating  reality  in  a  more  person- 
al, condensed,  memorable  form  than 
our  rather  monotonous,  daily  life. 
Yes,  indeed,  this  is  the  timeless 
function  of  art:  to  recreate  (or 
to  interpret)  the  shapeless,  massive 
reality  which  surrounds  us,  into  a 
new  form,  which  is  colored  by  the 
artist's  own  personal  perspective  and 
values.     Or   in   Shakespeare's   own

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
701 
words,  his  purpose  is  "to  hold  the 
mirror  up  to  nature,  as  'twere."  And, 
inevitably,  this  mirroring  of  nature 
includes  his  own  nature  too. 
A  play  is  more  than  anything  an 
art-form:  it  mirrors  reality  as  the 
author  sees  it,  neither  as  good  nor 
bad,  but  as  real.  Shakespeare  is  our 
greatest  writer,  not  because  he  is 
our  greatest  thinker  or  philosopher, 
but  because  he  is  the  fullest,  best 
artist;  that  is,  he  understands  all  hu- 
manity deeply,  and  can  express  his 
understanding  in  living  images  and 
language  within  his  chosen  medium 
of  expression.  But  the  characters 
whom  he  has  created  are  not  great 
because  they  are  true  to  life:  they 
are  immortal  because  they  fulfill 
their  artistic  function  in  the  passage 
or  play  in  which  they  appear.  Most 
important,  the  play,  as  Shakespeare 
well  knew,  must  be  true  to  its  own 
nature. 
A  great  play  is  "an  expanded  met- 
aphor," to  use  Wilson  Knight's  ex- 
cellent term.  It  has  a  soul,  a  pur- 
pose, a  reality  of  its  own  which  are 
not  the  same  as  those  we  know  in 
life.  In  real  life  we  rarely  speak 
soul-to-soul  with  each  other;  com- 
pared to  figures  in  a  drama,  real 
people  are  quite  silent  and  retiring. 
And  it  is  the  very  function  of  plays 
to  erect  this  art-work  which  in  fiery 
phrases,  sings  out  in  the  language 
of  the  soul  which  most  of  us  con- 
ceal. Hamlet,  for  example,  could 
never  occur  in  real  life,  vet  he  is 
the  greatest  success  on  the  stage,  for 
there  he  exemplifies  within  himself 
almost  all  human  emotions,  bewil- 
deringly  yet  really  condensed.  Like 
all  of  Shakespeare's  greatest  drama- 
tic creations,  he  is  the  poetic,  ar- 
tistic shape  given  by  his  creator  to 
a    universal    conflict,    emotion,    or 
thought. 
Shakespeare's  Sources 
Perhaps  the  most  popular  but  dis- 
tracting hobbyhorse  in  the  study  of 
Shakespeare  is  the  attempt  to  "ex- 
plain" him.  Since  he  was  relatively 
unschooled,  not  a  nobleman,  and 
had  no  power  nor  influence  outside 
the  theater,  it  becomes  a  great 
temptation  to  point  out  what  in- 
fluences dominated  him,  and  to  re- 
veal the  sources  of  his  ideas,  skills, 
and  beliefs. 
In  Lesson  Two  a  scant  introduc- 
tion into  this  world  was  attempted, 
not  in  an  effort  to  give  Shakespeare 
sources,  but  to  give  ourselves  sym- 
pathy and  understanding.  Only  after 
such  an  introduction  can  we  begin 
to  see  that  Shakespeare,  like  every 
successful  artist,  cannot  escape  re- 
cording the  spirit  and  texture  of  his 
day,  but  he  does  this  secondarily; 
all  his  art  and  power  begin  in  his 
own  emotion  and  vision.  As  he  suc- 
ceeded magnificently  in  recording 
himself,  then,  did  he  record  his 
age?  Yes,  evidences  of  Plato,  Ovid, 
Plutarch,  Holinshed,  Dante,  Coper- 
nicus, Machiavelli,  Montaigne, 
Chaucer,  and  the  Bible,  have  been 
found  in  his  work;  he  incorporates 
all  these,  and  he  is  none  of  them 
only. 
It  is  worth  noting  that,  of  all 
these  books,  only  Holinshed's 
Chronicle  and  Chaucer  are  "Eng- 
lish"; all  sources  of  his  knowledge
