GUIDE LESSONS ? 203 "O hearken, my tongue shall the riddle unseal, And mind shall be partner with heart; While thee to thyself I bid conscience reveal, And show thee how evil thou art. Remember thy follies, thy sins, and thy crimes, How vast is that infinite debt; Yet mercy hath seven by seventy times Been swift to forgive and forget."' The parable makes clear the fact that in Heaven there is no place for the unforgiving. The Lord cannot tolerate the companionship of the unmerciful and be what he is?''A God of mercy." C.. The Laborers in the Vineyard This parable, recorded in Matthew 20:1-16, was called forth by Peter's question recorded in Matthew 19:27, and Peter's questions seems to have been provoked by the Savior's offer of salvation to the rich young man, Matthew 19:16-21. Peter's question had in it an element of dissatisfaction with the Lord's promise of treasures in heaven to the man who had been enjoying wealth and ease while the apostles had been giving _ their all and themselves to the service of the Lord. The answer, recorded in Matthew 19:28, must have been very gratifying to the apostles, as it provided for exaltation as well as the salvation promised in verse twenty-nine, but the statement recorded in verse thirty was full of mystery and possibly caused some apprehension in the minds of those who knew themselves to be first in service. The statement, however, was a recognition of the fact that waiting for employment is more arduous than waiting for pay. Could the apostles have appreciated the inestimable value of the privilege of "following him" i. e., working under his direction and inspiration, they would have recognized that the latecomer, though he received the same material compensation as the early-comer did, could not receive equal with the early employee because the greatest compensation for service in the Kingdom is the privilege of serving. The Lord taught them the lesson that the was the source of heavenly treasure (eternal life, and exaltation) for without him no service can reach these treasures. | After all, wherein is exaltation greater than salvation? The one is a state of preservation from the power of one's enemies; the other is all that and more, it is a state of being able to render superior service. This, the chief difference between salvation and exaltation, is a difference of opportunity to work. The higher the exaltation the greater the work. Work is progressive exaltation. 204. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE QUESTIONS AND: PROBLEMS 1. From what point of view may the parable of the draw net teach the doctrine of gradation of salvation? 2. Correlate the following quotation with the parable of the draw net: "On the silent shore to which we are all moving we shall find each one his peace." 3. Relate the parable of the unmerciful servant and state what, to your mind, is the chief lesson taught by it. 4. What was the heathen basis of settling differences and' what was the Jewish limit of forgiveness at the time of giving this parable? 5. Correlate the doctrine taught by the parable of the unmer- _ciful servant with Doctrine and Covenants 64:9-10 and with the Lord's prayer. 6. Discuss this statement: To ask for forgiveness when one is unwilling to forgive is to ask that the Savior's statement be made untrue. 7. What were the circumstances which brought forth the parable of the laborers in the vineyard? 8. What was the evident object of this parable? 9. From what point of view is the one longest in God's service always best paid? 10. Discuss the following as an expression of the highest desire:,: May life eternal be my share, Under my Redeemer's care. With those I love?eternal joy, Eternal work in God's employ. LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in June) LESSON III Literature (Third week in June) OLIVER WENDELL HoLmEs Oliver Wendell Holmes is one of the most interesting authors that America has had from the standpoint of personality. He was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts, in 1809, and died in 1894. He comes of one of the old aristocratic families of Boston, having his residence on Beacon Hill. One of his ancestors was Dorothy GUIDE LESSONS 205 Quincy. In this issue of the Magazine we include her portrait and Doctor Holmes' poem Dorothy Q., written to her. Grandmother's mother: her age, I guess, Thirteen summers, or something less; Girlish bust, but womanly air; Smooth, square forehead with uprolled hair; Lips that lover has never kissed; Taper fingers and slender wrist; Hanging sleeves of stiff brocade; So they painted the little maid. On her hand a parrot green Sits unmoving and broods serene. Hold up the canvas full in view,? Look! There's a rent the light shines through, Dark with a century's fringe of dust,? That was a Red-Coat's rapier-thrust! Such is the tale the lady old, Dorothy's daughter's daughter, told. 206 | RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Who the painter was none may tell,? One whose best was not over well; Hard and dry, it must be confessed, Flat as a rose that has long been pressed; Yet in her cheek the hues are bright, Dainty colors of red and white, And in her slender shape are seen Hint and promise of stately mien. Look not on her with eyes of scorn,? Dorothy Q. Was a lady born! Ay! Since the galloping Normans came, England's annals have known her name; And still to the three-hilled rebel town Dear is that ancient name's renown, For many a civic wreath they won, The youthful sire and the gray-haired son. O Damsel Dorothy! Dorothy Q.! Strange is the gift that I owe you; Such a gift as never a king Save to daughter or son might bring,? All my tenure of heart and hand, All my title to house and land; Mother and sister and child and wife And joy and sorrow and death and life! What if a hundred years ago Those close-shut lips had answered No, When forth the tremulous question came That cost the maiden her Norman name, And under the folds that look so still The bodice swelled with the bosom's thrill? Should I be I, or would it be One tenth another, to nine tenths me? Soft is the breath of a maiden's 'Yes: Not the light gossamer stirs with less; But never a cable that holds so fast Through all the battles of wave and blast, And never an echo of speech or song That lives in the babbling air so long! There were tones in the voice that whispered then You may hear to-day in a hundred men. jo GUIDE LESSONS?: 207 O lady and lover, how faint and far Your images hover,?and here we are, Solid and stirring in flesh and bone,? Edward's and Dorothy's?all their own,? A goodly record for Time to show Of a syllable spoken so long ago!? Shall I bless you, Dorothy, or forgive For the tender whisper that bade me live? It shall be a blessing, my little maid! I will heal the stab of the Red-Coat's blade, And freshen the gold of the tarnished frame, And gild with a rhyme your household name; So you shall smile on us brave and bright As first you greeted the morning's light, And live untroubled by woes and fears Through a second youth of a hundred years. Dr. Holmes was educated at Andover Theological Seminary and at Harvard University. He chose medicine as his profession, did some writing on medical subjects, and was, until he reached ? his seventy-third year, professor of Anatomy in the Medical College of Harvard University. Anatomy is usually thought of among medical students, as a rather dry subject, yet Doctor Holmes made it so interesting that he was greeted with applause at the close of each of his.. Lectures, a thing almost unknown in other colleges. He did practice medicine, but it was said that he cured more patients through contact with his life-giving, cheerful personality than through any medical treatment he prescribed. The world knows him chiefly as a poet and it is by his poetry that he will live, nevertheless, at Harvard University they knew him as a man of science. President Eliot said in. Substance, at a banquet given to him at a birthday celebration, "you who are gathered here know Doctor Holmes chiefly as a poet, but on the Harvard campus, we know him chiefly as a physician," and "I want to assure you that he handles the scalpel as skillfully as he does the pen." Doctor Holmes is conspicuous as an occasional poet, and could furnish a. Poem appropriate for practically any occasion. He wrote: "I'm a florist in verse, And what would people say, If I came to a banquet, Without my bouquet." 
 He made the class of 1829, of Harvard University, famous, never failing to make a contribution each year when they gathered. We shall take up some of the best known poems to the class of '29 in the next lesson. There is a strain of humor running through much that Holmes has written, consequently, he was always welcome whereever he chanced to be; he was immensely popular in social circles. "Early in life he acquired the reputation of being the best talker ever heard in Boston, and this he maintained unbroken to the end." The last appearance of Holmes in public is so thoroughly worth-while that we include the story in this lesson. The National Teachers' Association was to meet in Boston and the committee felt sure, from the fact that Boston and its environs are so important, historically, that a very large number of teachers would assemble. In this conjecture they were not mistaken, for 20,000 came together, which chanced to be the largest number that had met prior to that time, at any association meeting. The committee wanted to feature some entertainment that would be especially attractive to the teachers, so they suggested a literary dinner. But said one of their number, "Trowbridge and Thomas Bailey Aldrich would hardly fit the situation and the others are all gone." They felt this to be true because Doctor Holmes had grown so feeble that he was no longer appearing in public. Said one, "If we could just manage to have Doctor Holmes, it would be the most unique entertainment that we could possibly offer"; so the committee made up its mind to see what could be done. The committee waited on Doctor Holmes, and he called his physician who told him that if the day was clear, and he'd promise not to shake hands with anyone, and not take part on the program, he might attend the banquet. The entertainment was announced and there was a scramble for tickets, for everybody knew that it would, in all probability, be Doctor Holmes' last appearance in public. When the day arrived the poet disobeyed orders. The day was murky, but he left his home. He was placed on the platform off from the company, but when he recognized in the group so many of his old friends he refused to be off by himself and insisted on shaking hands with them. When the banquet had almost concluded, he requested the privilege of taking part, drawing from his pocket a poem written for the occasion, entitled The Teacher. His introduction to his book of poems is especially good, so we are including it in the lesson: GUIDE LESSONS 209 ~ TO MY READERS Nay, blame me not; I might have spared Your patience many a trivial verse, Yet these my earlier welcome shared, So, let the better shield the worse. And some might say, "Those ruder songs Had freshness which the new have lost; To spring the opening leaf belongs, The chestnut-burs await the frost." When those I wrote, my locks were brown, When these I write?ah, well-a-day! The autumn thistle's silvery down Is not the purple bloom of May! Go, little book, whose pages hold Those garnered years in loving trust; How long before your blue and gold Shall fade and whiten in the dust? O sexton of the alcoved tomb, Where souls in leathern cerements lie, - Tell me each living poet's doom! How long before his book shall die? It matters little, soon or late, A day, a month, a year, an age,? I read oblivion in its date, And Finis on its title-page. Before we sighed, our griefs were told; Before we smiled, our joys were sung: And all our passions shaped of old In accents lost to mortal tongue. In vain a fresher mould we seek,? Can all the varied phrases tell That Babel's wandering children speak How thrushes sing or lilacs smell? Caged in the poet's lonely heart, Love wastes unheard its tenderest tone; The soul that sings must dwell apart, Its inward melodies unknown. Deal gently with us, ye who read! Our largest hope, is unfulfilled,? The promise still outruns the deed,? The tower, but not the spire, we build. 
 Our whitest pearl we never find; ?- Our ripest fruit we never. Reach; The flowering moments of the mind Drop half their petals in our speech. These are my blossoms; if they wear One streak. Of morn or evening's glow, Accept them; but to me more fair The buds of song that never blow. Soon after Holmes finished his work at Andover, a matter in the public press so stirred his soul that he wrote Old Ironsides. The story goes, that "in the Charleston Navy Yard, at this time, was the old frigate Constitution, which the government proposed to break up as unfit for service, thoughtless of the desecration. "The poem, the first to make its author famous, was written in 1830, and first published in The Boston Advertiser. From these columns it was extensively copied by other newspapers throughout the country, and handbills containing the verses were circulated in Washington. The eloquent, patriotic outburst not only brought instant fame to the young poet, but so thoroughly aroused the heart of the people that the grand old vessel was saved from destruction." OLD IRONSIDES Ay, tear her tattered ensign down! Long has it waved on high, And many an eye has danced to see That banner in the sky; Beneath it rung the battle shout, And burst the cannon's roar;? The meteor of the ocean air Shall sweep the clouds no more! Her deck, once red with heroes' blood, Where knelt the vanquished foe, When winds were hurrying o'er the flood, And waves were white below, No more shall feel the victor's tread, Or know the conquered knee;? The harpies of the shore shall pluck The eagle of the sea! GUIDE LESSONS ?_ aii O better that her shattered hulk Should sink beneath the wave; Her thunders shook the mighty deep, And there should be her grave; Nail to the mast her holy flag, Set every threadbare sail, And give her to the god of storms, The lightning and the gale! I feel sure that it will be of interest to our readers to know that Doctor Holmes, as well as being one of the first and one of the most gifted contributors to the Atlantic Monthly, was the person who gave the magazine its name. Concerning this matter, William Dean Howells said at the celebration on the anniversary of his seventieth birthday: "The fact is known to you all, and I will not insist upon it, but it was Oliver Wendell Holmes who not only named, but who made the Atlantic. How did he do this? Oh, very simply! He merely invented a new kind of literature, something so beautiful and rare and fine that while you were trying to determine its character as monologue or colloquy, prose or poetry, philosophy or humor, it was gradually penetrating your conscience with a sense that the best of all these had been fused in one?