the General Board, Mrs. Allen formulated plans and with her stake board, established a cooperative welfare department, which was called the Community Welfare Department of the Utah Stake Relief Society. This department was conducted under the supervision and direction of the local priesthood and the stake Relief Society, with Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, a trained social worker, acting as the executive secretary. The object of the department was constructive family work, and community betterment. The department has correlated the local work of the Relief Society, cooperated with the county and other local agencies, as well as with state agencies and institutions in the interest of humanity, and has become known throughout Utah and the west as an efficient and up-to-date family welfare agency. Utah stake is well known also for other phases of work, among which are its splendid union meetings and its excellent department and class work. The General Board takes this opportunity of expressing to Mrs, Allen and her faithful co-workers, deep appre- NOTES FROM THE FIELD 197 ciation for their service and the high standards maintained in their work. On Saturday, February 16, a reception was tendered Mrs. Allen and her associates on the stake board, by the new stake board and the ward officers. The social was held in College Hall, Brigham Young University, Prove, Utah, with eight hundred women in attendance. There was a delightful program and refreshments, after which the entire audience was given an opportunity to shake hands with the retiring officers and General Board visitors, who formed themselves into a receiving line for this purpose. Mrs. Allen was presented with a gorgeous bouquet of roses in a large cut glass bowl. Her counselors, Mrs. Annie D. Palmer and Mrs. Ina G. Hodson, each received roses in cut glass vases. All other board members were each given a copy of Edgar Guest's poems. Mrs. Electa Smoot Dixon, a former member of Mrs. Allen's board and a capable and faithful R