[Vol31 | April 1944 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: General Pohlman]
Even though their energy and endurances were taxed to the utmost before the Hui, the women did not lose sight of their great obligation to make of it a spiritual success. "On Easter morning, with a glorious blue sky overhead and the sun shining with a warm glow on all living things, they assembled in the big house to gain instruction and commemorate the resurrection of our Lord and Savior. "Talks on education, spirituality, child welfare, Red Cross and home nursing, loyalty, cleanliness and thrift were given in both the Maori and English languages by women with a deep understanding of the Gospel and a wide knowledge of life." In the afternoon the women again met to resume their work.
This meeting took the form of discussion of general problems and questions.
Following are additional comments from Sister Cowley's letter: "The policemen, whose duty it was to guard the grounds, commented that they had never had such an easy task.
They found no empty liquor bottles which they said was most unusual with such a large gathering. The city officials also  commended the Hui Tau committee on the way they left the show grounds.
They commented that they were left cleaner than when they were turned over to us for the conference." East Central States Mission LEONE W. DOXEY, recently appointed president of Relief Societies in the East Central States Mission, wrote February 16, 1944, as follows: In Charlottesville, Virginia, where 'Monticello, the famous home of Thomas Jefferson is located, an enthusiastic Relief Society was recently organized. Sister Amelia J. Hansen, one of our short-term missionaries from the Pasadena Stake, California, was very helpful in this organization. "Sister Maggie S.
Snow was appointed president. She has long been known in Charlottesville for her fine welfare work. She is often called, 'Mrs.
Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch' for her efforts to improve the condition of the poor families, helping them to help themselves.
Some wealthy people, observing her work, have made contributions to her from time to time, to aid in her projects. "They are also doing a fine missionary work.
Four members of their Relief Society, who did not belong to the Church, were baptized and confirmed recently.
They have fifteen paid memberships, and are following a regular program of Relief Society activity. "We are very proud of this organization and the fine women who are carrying on the work of Relief Society in Charlottesville." LOOK AHEAD!
Make your business training broad enough for peace as well as war.
Prepare now for the needs? and opportunities?of tomorrow. L. D. S. Business College offers you excellent training and effective employment service. I: Ei. St w= National: BIBLES BUSINESS 70
North Main, Salt Lake City FAT LIVE BE WELL! WELLE! WELL! WOMEN ARE RESPONSIBLE! For the health and nourishment of the race. Before and after birth. And throughout life everyone of us is at the mercy of a woman's knowledge and skill in the selection, preparation and serving of FOOD. We are made or ruined by woman's knowledge and skill or lack of it. Women must not fail. They will not, if they will read and apply Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe's "HOW TO BE WELL" 576 pages filled with hundreds of delicious nourishing recipes and appetizing menus, based upon the newer knowledge of nutrition and inspired by the famous Latter-day Saint ''Word of Wisdom."' Get this great book and give your loved ones a sound, long-time investment in the best of health insurance. "HOW TO BE WELL"... $2.00
