[Vol31 | April 1944 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes to the Field Conference]

NOTES T0 THE FIELD Relief Society?Stake Quarterly Conference In stakes where the regular sessions of Stake Quarterly Conference are concluded in the afternoon and where an additional evening session is planned, auxiliary organizations, if invited by the stake presidency, may share in the use of this Sunday evening session. The following schedule for participation in the 1944
Quarterly Conferences has been adopted by the auxiliaries: Primary Association? Genealogical Society? Third Quarter June 3?September 24
Relief Society? Fourth Quarter September 30?December 10 M.1. A.? First Quarter of 1945
Heretofore the Relief Society has been assigned the summer quarter. Further information ? regarding participation of Relief Society in the Quarterly Conference will be issued by the Relief Society General Board at a later date. First Quarter January 8?March 12
Sunday School? Second Quarter March 18?May 28
There is now in this country one saloon for about every 300 of our people. Who really believes that these saloons are the training places for a military victory? Ration points are still necessary for a bottle of grape-juice, but not one point for a barrel of wine! There is constant talk of food-shortage, yet more than 2,000,000,000 pounds of fruits and berries will be used in making wine in 1943! Two and three-fourths billion pounds of grain, sugar and syrup will be used in the manufacture of beer. The flag still floats over the patriotic centers that try to make out that their vats are fountains of love for the Nation.?The Voice, December 1943 ALCOHOL HARMS NERVES AND BRAIN your thinking power and nervous system are strongly influenced by the well-being of your body, particularly by the condition of the blood. Within a few minutes after a person takes a drink containing alcohol, about one-fifth of the alcoholic content has entered the bloodstream. Then alcohol-laden blood washes through the brain and moves among the nerve cells, whose fatty substance eagerly absorbs some of the alcohol. The cerebrospinal fluid is also alcoholized and its contact with nerve cells and fibers causes further injury in the control-tower of the body. Man's highest and most important mental and nerve controls snap out or go numb under such conditions and the effect may continue for many hours. Ability, judgment, and self-control are impaired, though the drinker is the last to realize this. His emotions control conduct.?Bert H. Davis, "Shall I Become a Drinker?"