DEATH OF SISTER MERRILL.

	Extract from Elder Wm. O. Lee's letter dated
Fagalii, Samoa, July 15, 1891.
	"We have very bad news to report this month,
and our hearts are filled with sympathy for all
those who will be affected by the same. In re-
porting Sister Merrill's condition last month we
thought she ws recovering, but she had a billious
attack and could not keep any food on her
stomach. As a result she became very weak and
a premature birth was the consequence. This
happened on the 28th of June. The child died
next day. An hour after the death of the child,
the mother called Sister Lee to her bedside and
after thanking her for waiting on her during her
sickness, said that she was "going to die;" that
she "could not stay" because "they had come for
her." She then talked with her husband, kissed
him goodbye, and all was over. The sad event
has left a cloud of sorrow behind that nothing but
time and the Spirit of God can dispel. The
funeral was held the next day. The mother and


baby boy were buried in one coffin. By permis-
sion from the manager of the German plantation,
we buried them on the brow of a hill about 200
yards S. E. from the mission house. They were
buried in a dry, elevated place, so that when
Brother Merrill's mission is ended he can take
the bodies home with him. We received the
sympathy of our white friends here and also
many offers of assistance. We can say all that
is good about our dear departed sister. She was
good and pure, had a great desire to fulfill her 
mission and do all the good in her power."
   It is always sad to record the death of the
young but this is specially sad because of the
circumstances, her absence from home, in a
foreign land, so far remote, and while filling a 
grand and noble mission, makes it painful to all
concerned. We remember this young woman
when a child in the Primary Association. May 
our Heavenly Father comfort her husband and
all those who mourn her early departure.
   "Katie Eliza Hale Merrill was born in Grants-
ville, Tooele Co., Utah, Dec. 10, 1871—and was
the daughter of Alma H. and Sarah A. Clark
Hale. She left home with her husband Elder
Joseph Harris Merrill, of Smithfield, last February
and had been an active worker in Sunday School
and Y. L. M. I. A. She is the first sister who
has died while on a mission."


