FROM ADDRESS OF FRANCES E. WILLARD BE-
FORE THE NATIONAL EDUCATIONAL
ASSOCIATION.
	How early shall we teach? The age will 
vary, but be sure to let purity have the first
word. The child will ask questions early;
let not the coarse reply get in its work
before the chaste one comes. Science is like
fire, it burns away dross; tell him what science 
says. God's laws are all equally clean and
holy; tell him of the laws of God. But in 
what way shall we teach? According to the
truth of things, The bird in its nest the
flower on its stalk, the mineral in its crystals
all show forth one law. The sanctities of
parentage might best be the key-note. As a
rule, no one is reverenced and beloved by
the child like the mother who bore him.
Teach a little boy to revere and protect all
women for her sake, and teach the little girl
to shield as the "eminent jewel of her soul,"
the potentiality of motherhood. A noble
young woman of my acquaintance, teacher
in a country school; wrote me that she saw
such impurity carried on before her very eyes
in her little school house thot she could not
forbear speaking with her pupils one by one;
and noticing how they gathered in groups at
recess in mysterious fashion, she went out
with them to their plays.
   Would it not be better to abolish recess
altogether, and let gymnastic exercises, under
the teacher's supervission take its place?
This seems to be one of the best practical
means to a higher civilization in our public
schools. Such is the opinion of experts in
education with whom 1 very generally con-
sulted before preparing my address. A dis-
tinguished high-school principal sent me these
hopeful lines:
   "The public school is a composite of lawn
and back alley, parlor and saloon, hovel and
home. But its atmosphere is sweeter both
indoors and out, than in my boyhood days,
and this has come through the inheritance of
better traits of character, the introduction of
better methods of discipline, the abolition of
the promiscuous outdoor recess, the control of
children's reading, the giving of fewer chil-
dren to each teacher, and by a higher moral
ideal among young people themselves."   
   No factor in the woman-question evolution
is more significant than that women are teach-
ing the men that are to be. A solid respect
for women's mental powers must be the
mental habit of the boys thus trained.
Meanwhile there are enough men of brain
and brawn at the head of our educational
system to furnish boys ideals towards which
to grow. With all my heart, I believe there
are two motives on which a lady teacher can
rely: one is a boy's love for his mother 
and his sisters, the other a boy's desire to please
the lady who teaches him: and it is possible
to establish such esprit de corps. that boys
will not do what they would be ashamed to
heve her know, or what she assures them
would be bad examples for the smaller pupils.
Add to this the concept, emphasized by
White-Cross teaching, in the minds of boys,
both large and small, that in every woman
they behold the sacred sex to which each
boy's mother and sister belong, and a great
gain will have been made. The Arabs have 
a choice phrase that they apply to the noblest
young man of the tribe, saying that he is "a
brother of girls." This ideal is the true one 
for teachers to set forth. We send mis-
sionaries to Fijis, but we leave the play-ground
of our common schools practically in the 
hands of a pagan influence, and doom little
children out of sheltered homes to the malaria
of associations as harmful to them spiritually
and physically as the small-pox would be.
We turn them out to take their chances with
the rest. We know the imitative faculty of
the child naturally takes hold of what is
imitated; that impure literature is circulated
freely; and marks that are the insignia of
baseness are often on the walls.
   What we must have in all large schools is
a guardian of the play-ground; a moral
horticulturist whose specialty is physical
ethics; an apostle of health whose gospel
outranks that of head or hand, for without it
the head is apt to swim, the hann to tremble
and the heart to be a cage of unclean 
birds. 
	In contemplation of my present golden
opportunity of speech I have written to 
capable teachers whose names were given
me by leaders of the host, and have two
sentences to quote in this connection:
   "I take it for granted that you know, even
to the extent of being heart-sick over it, the 
frightful condition of most schools in respect
to the impurity in language, actions, and
defacement of school buildings and grounds.
Rural schools are usually worse than those
of cities and towns—for I really believe that
rural life tends to be more depraved in this 
respect than it is possible for the life of a
busy city to become."
   Another leader contrasts the condition of
things in an ordinary town with one where
women are on the school board and give
careful attention to the condition of the 
school building in this regard. Sixteen Statei
have now given women power to be school
officers, and in the name of health and holiness
let them be up and doing as house-cleaners for
the commonwealth.
Ex.


"Mrs. Ida May Davis, recently elected school
trustee in Terre Haute, Ind., will, according
to custom, serve as secretary of the board dur-
ing the first year of her three years' term."

   "MRS. TODD, who assisted Colonel Higgin-
son in editing the poems of Emily Dickinson,
recently gave some interesting reminiscences
of the recluse poet. "Toward the middle age,"
"Miss Dickinson ceased to leave the house;
even her loved garden was deserted for a con-
servatory. By letters and gifts she kept up
her connection with friends; and to children,
to whom she was always a good fairy, she
would lower sweet surprises and gifts from the
window. Only a few of the manuscript poems
left by this strange and gifted woman have
been published."

   Women taxpayers are constitutionally
empowered to vote in Montana. The Daily
Leader of Great Falls, Montana, says:
   Some of the people of Washington may try
to prevent it in their feeble way, but woman
suffrage is already an assured, a successful
fact. Wyoming is an example of its success.
The Montana constitution says: "Upon all
questions submitted to the taxpayers of the 
State, or any legal subdivision thereof, women
who are taxpayers shall, equally with men,
have the right ta vote." This is a broad
provision, and high legal authority declares
that it gives women taxpayers a right to vote
at any election. Twenty-five years from this
time they will exercise the right of suffrage in
every State in the Union, and the rising
generation will wonder at the stupidity and
intolerance of their ancestors who stood in the
way.


