CHAUTAUQUA.

	A letter just received from Miss Anthony
gives a glowing account of the programe
carried out Chautauqua, New York by the
Chautauqua County Political Equality clubs
and on invitation of Bishop Vincent.
	Miss Anthony writes that Bishop Vincent
himself welcomed the Clubs and their friends
and sat through the first address "that of dear
Mother Wallace, who in her own way rescued
the Bible from its old interpretation against
equality of rights for women." We quote a
brief notice of the day from the Jamestown
Sunday News:—
	"The platform was appropriately decorated
with bunting, flowers, drapery and banners.
Over the speakers' heads was an enormous
banner inscribed "Political Equality!" flanked
by others, bearing the legends, "Woman's
Ballot means Enlarged Opportunities for do-
ing Good," and "Governments Derive Their
Just Powers from the Consent of the Gov-
erned." Around were grouped the beautiful
silk insignia of a local Political Equality
club.
	County President Elnoras N. Babcock, of
Dunkirk, presided, supported by the other
officers of the county P. E. organization. Not
less than a full regiment - one thousand ladies
proudly wore the gold tinted badges that pro-
claimed them either affiliated with the P. E.
club or avowed suffragists. Lilly Dale sent
a contingent of a round hundred, and every
township in the county was well represented.
As the day cleared auspiciously the amphi-
theater was filled by five thousand enthusiastic 
listeners. 
	Mrs. Zerelda G. Wallace received a merited
ovation, not only by her address on political
equality, but as an ideal American matron.
	Rev. Anna Shaw's grand physique domi-
nated the rostrum and her resonant voice
penetrated to the remotest tiers of the thronged
amphitheater, and her cogent eloquence was
worthy of the magnificent audience, the occa-
sion and her august theme," "The Fate of
Republics," which competent critics pro-
nounced the most statesmanlike discourse ever
given in western New York.
	Woman's day was justified by the reception
given to that intrepid Arnold Winkelried of
women, Miss Susan B. Anthony.—Woman's
Tribune.


A man who will lie on his knees won't tell
the truth anywhere.


