		VISIT TO KAYSVILLE.

	On Aug. 7 in company with Sister Elizabeth
Howard we had the pleasure of attending the Re-
lief Society Conference of Davis Stake held at
Kaysville- Bishop Peter Barton was present and
offered. the opening prayer.  Mrs. Susan Grant
presided at the meeting; both of her Counselors
Mrs. Mary S. Clark, and Mrs. Jane Holt were
present, Mrs. Phebe Sessions read the minutes of
the previous quarterly Conference which were
exceedingly interesting.  Reports were then read
from the several branches in the Stake showing the
condition of each organization.  We were greatly 
surprised at the amount of work that had been
done by the sisters especially in Kaysville. Mrs.
Sarah B. Layton who presides over the Relief 
Society in that place, in untiring in her energy and
is possessed of indomitable perseverance.  The
sisters there have been liberal in their donations
to the Deseret Hospital for which they deserve
thanks and appreciation; they not only pay their
monthly dues but there are quite a number of 
sisters too who have kept up their membership
fees and in many places this has been sadly 
neglected.  The associations at Kaysville have
also given fruit, quilts and other things which
have been very gratefully received and although
no public acknowledgement has been made, these
acts of kindness from the benevolent are duly ap-
preciated by the members of the Board of Di-
rectors who have had a hard struggle to keep up
the institution.
	Pres. Grant made some opening remarks
warmly welcoming the visitors and the congrega
tion, she was followed by Sister Howard who
spoke freely upon the present situation of the
people, the signs of the times, and the encourag-
ing hopes held out in the future to those who
could stand steadfast in the midst of trials, and
[Column 2]
endure to the end.  Her remarks were excellent
and she spoke in a very forcible and impressive
manner.  Counselor Mary S. Clark spoke with
much earnestness and power, of the past, present
and future of this people; and dwelt, upon
obedience to the commandments of God.  Sister
Sarah B. Layton spoke of her joy in the labors
she performed and her desire to ever keep in the 
straight and narrow way.  Rejoiced in all the prin-
ciples that had been revealed knew they were all
true and were for the salvation of all who would
obey them and live rightous and upright lives.
Sister Margaret Randall also bore a strong testi-
mony to the truth of the work in which we are
engaged and expressed herself desirous of doing
good to all and assisting in every good work.
The day was a remarkably fine one, and the
green fields and orchards loaded with fruit were
a pleasant sight to behold;  the new mown hay
was everywhere agreeably fragrant and the
flowers abundant. The sisters dined at Sister
Sarah Layton’s and the visit during dinner was
very enlivening. It goes without saying that the
table was loaded with delicacies for Sister Lay-
ton’s hospitality is widely known.
	There was a much larger attendance at the
afternoon meeting and the Primary Associations
were present, to sing for the Conference which
was a very pretty idea, and their fresh young 
voices made sweet melody and the music was an
inspiration in itself.  Brother Phillips made the
opening prayer, the writer addressed the sisters
upon various subjects pertaining mostly to the
progress of the work of the organizations,
gave a sketch of the visit of the wo-
men delegates to the National Council
and made some explanations in regard to
the Council its design and the privilege to be
obtained through being connected with it.  Coun-
selor Jane Holt made a few timely remarks, and
after singing and benediction the meeting was ad-
journed for three months.  These reunions among
the sisters are productive of great good in the in-
terchange of ideas and methods of work whether 
spiritual or temporal; and always promote union
of spirit and harmony of purpose.


