GOLDEN WEDDING.
	
	The golden wedding of John and Isabella
Beecher Hooker, at Hartford, Ct.,
August 5, was a notable occasion. The 
reception occured in the new City Mission
Building. The interior was beautified by
masses of flowers, ferns and plants. Yellow
was the predominating color, symbolical of
woman's suffrage. The building was thronged
with hundreds of leading citizens, among
them Senator and Mrs. Hawley, of Hartford. 
The attendance from out of town was
numerous and distinguished, including ex-
Senator W. M. Evarts and Miss Evarts.
William Loyd Garrison, John Hutchinson, 
of Hutchinson family fame, Rev. Edward
Beecher, D. D. and Mrs. Beecher, Rev. T.K.
Beecher, Rev. C. E. Stowe, Miss Grace King,
Lynde Harrison and Mrs. Harrison, Susan B.
Anthony, Caroline G. Rogers, Mary S. Howell, 
Charlotte Porter, Rachel F. Avery, Kate T. 
DeRoode, Helen Clark, editor of Poet Lore.
and Mary F. Seymour, of the Business
Woman's Journal.


Among representatives of the World's
Columbian Commission, of which Mrs. 
Hooker is a member, were Mrs. Trautman,
first vice-president Mrs. Pope, Miss Ford,
Miss Brusselle, Mrs French, Miss Dailey
Miss Ives, and Miss Cozzens.
   Letters of congratulation were received,
from the three editors of the Woman’s
Journal and many other absent suffragists.
   Supper and singing were followed by the 
presentation by the Equal Rights Club of
Hartford of a bride’s loaf covered with gold
dollars to Mrs. Hooker, the presentation speech
being by Mrs. Virginia T. Smith, of the City
Mission, and the singing of a couple of old
fashioned hymns by the assembled company.
The evening closed with remarks and a prayer
by the venerable Dr. Edward Beecher.
   John Hooker is to-day the oldest lawyer
in Connecticut, having been appointed reporter
of the Supreme Court of that State in
January, 1858. He has declined a seat upon
the supreme bench, and his ability ha
received special recognition from the Legis
lature. He has written many poems. At the
two hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the 
adoption of Connecticut's first constitution,
he delivered an address and poem. For
years he was the only anti-slavery lawyer in
the state, and gave his first vote to J. G.
Birney, an act at that time unpopular. Since 
1869 he has been an active co-worker with
his wife in the woman suffrage movement.
   Isabella Beecher Hooker is the daughter of
Lyman Beecher, and posesses many of the
traits which have made the Beecher family
illustrious. She is sixty-nine years of age,
with all her powers in perfect vigor. She is 
president of the Connecticut Woman Suffrage
Association. and for years has been devoted to
the amelioration of her sex.
