MARICOPA STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference held
at Mesa, June 18th, 1891, opened by the usual
exercises there being a good attendance from
the several wards. Of the brethren there were
present Brothers Wm. Passey A. F. Stewart,
C. R. Hakes and Pres. C. I. Robson and
others.
	Pres. Sarah M. Pomeroy presided. The
Society of each of the wards was represented
by the respective President; Barbara Lang re-
ported the Mesa Ward, said the sisters deserved
a good report, they had held their meetings
regularly and were trying to live their relig-
ion.
	Pres. Ann Kleinman, thought the Alma
Ward sisters were trying to improve and keep
the commandments of God.
	Pres. Esther Openshaw said the Nephi Ward
had not held all their meetings during the last
quarter but she thought there was a general
good feeling.
	Pres. Lizzie Macdonald said the Society in
the Lehi Ward was doing well although it
was the same faithful few to be relied on; en-
couraged the sisters to attend to their spiritual
duties.
	Pres. Susan Savage reported the Papago
Ward, said the Lamanites were the "Children
of Promise," and she had great faith in their
future.
	Pres. S. M. Pomeroy felt pleased with the
reports, thought the Papago Ward should
have more encouragement, exhorted the sisters
to more faithful performance of their duties.
	Sister M. A. Hakes knew we were battling
for a great cause, thought we were all striving
to do right each in her own way.
	Sisters S. A. Robson, Charazda Averett,
Syrena Biggs, Emma Rogers and Harriet
Burton, made some timely remarks and gave
good counsel.
	Coun. C. R. Hakes spoke upon the varied
labors of the Latter-day saints; spoke upon
the subject of charity and mercy, said "to err
is human and to forgive divine."
	Bishop Wm. Passey and A. F. Stewart
added good counsel to the Relief Society
and the Saints in general.
	Pres. C. I. Robson spoke of the purposes
of the Relief Society, referred to a report of a
meeting held at the residence of Judge Pyper,
Sugar House Ward years ago, and of the many
changes since then.
	There was a general good feeling manifested
at the conference and all felt to renew their
diligence. Adjourned for three months.
	F. E. Robson, Sec.

