	JUAB STAKE.
	The fiftieth Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Juab Stake of Zion con-
vened in the Nephi Tabernacle, June 23, 1891.
Pres. Pitchforth presiding; the choir sang "The
Morning Breaks." Pres. Paxman offered
prayer; singing "I'll praise my Maker while
I've breath." Officers roll-called; minutes of
previous conference read and accepted.
	Pres. Pitchforth said she was pleased to see
so many present on this the 23rd anniversary
of our organization. Spoke of our loved ones
departed who had labored so faithfully in the
interest of the Relief Society; Sister E. R.
Snow, Sister Amelia Goldsbrough our first
President, and Sister Picton her Counselor;
and many others that have gone to labor in a
higher sphere; spoke of Sister Zina Young and
her counselors and all associated with her in
the interest of the Association. Said we have
much to be thankful for, the needy have been
provided for, and if any have suffered it has
been because it was not reported. Prayed

[Column 2]
that the blessings of God might rest upon us
during our Conference.
	Pres. E. R. Udall reported the Second Ward
Society as being in good condition and ex-
pressed her desire to be faithful. Pres. Ann
Wilkey reported the First Ward in good work-
ing order, said both officers and members were
doing their duty to the best of their ability;
invoked the blessings of God upon all present
that we might be united as the heart of one.
Sister S. A. Andrews sang an appropriate
song.
	Apostle A. H. Lund said: "I am pleased to
have the privilege of meeting with the sisters,
and to hear of the good work they are per-
forming, comforting the sick, and caring for
the needy, it is a great mission; it is better to
be good than great; it is a mission of love to
help those who are in need; thought the work
of the Sisters of Charity was good, even if they
did not have the light and knowledge that the
sisters of the Relief Society had, they were
doing good and performing a noble mission;
but he was sorry they had chosen so lonely a 
life, for “the noblest mission on earth is that of
motherhood; look after the needy especialy
those who do not always ask; for there are
those who can not make their wants known;
give in a way that they will not feel like
paupers, but sons and daughters of the same
father, extend the same charity as you would
to your own brothers and sisters;" he spoke of
the power of healing, and how thankful we
ought to be that our husbands held the priest-
hood; we must put our trust in God, the bless-
ings of the priesthood far exceed gold and
silver and all else in this world; spoke of the
necessity of faith, we must not condemn those
who have not faith sufficient to be healed; they
can have faith unto salvation; recommended
good nursing for the sick, and less medicine;
thought it was right to use caution in con-
tagious diseases but not to the extent of leav-
ing the parents to bury their own dead, that is
too much; hoped the sisters would always be
willing to help; said we should all hold each
others characters sacred, we will gain by de-
fending, lose by slandering. Strengthen each
other, that when the end comes it may be said,
he or she has overcome, we shall eat of the
Tree of Life, every good act gains reward.
Prayed the Lord to bless us with every good
blessing that we might all endure to the end.
	A song by Miss M. Morgan and company.
Sister Aaggard reported the Levan branch in
good order; felt well in her labors with the
sisters. Sister Easthope reported the Juab
branch, said we are few in number, we have
very good meetings; hoped we would all put in
practice the good teachings we had heard from
Brother Lund. Sister Easthope sang "Beauti-
ful Zion for me." Counselor Bigler read a
letter from the Eureka Branch reporting the
Relief Society as doing well, their meetings are
well attended.
	Sister Bryan spoke in her kind motherly
way, advised the sisters to be kind to each
other and build each other up. May we all
stick to the old "Mormon Car," that Sister
Anderews sang about.
	Counselor Hannah Jones was much pleased
with the good advice and counsel of Brother
Lund. Thought there were many who would
give their lives if necessary to save their
friends. Read a very appropriate article from
the EXPONENT called "The School of Sorrow."
The stake and local officers were sustained by
unanimous vote.
	Pres. Pitchforth moved that we sustain each
other, exhorted all to be faithful and strive to
carry out the good counsel we had received
from Brother Lund.
	Bishop Parks felt that we had been blest
with a heavenly influence. Spoke of the good
work the sisters were doing, hoped all would
continue in their labors of love, asked the Lord

[Column 3]
to bless them to that end. Singing "Great is
the Lord." Benediction by Bishop Parks.
Conference adjourned till 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session: choir sang, "I know that
my Redeemer lives." Prayer by Patriarch
Bigler; choir sang, "With all my powers."
	Sister Linton read the report of the 1st
Ward of Nephi, and Sister Delia Clayton
read report of the 2nd Ward. It being the
twenty-third anniversary of our organization
in Nephi, a programme was prepared consist-
ing of songs, recitations, and select readings,
also a number of organ solos. The young
ladies, as also some of the young gentlemen,
did all in their power to make our entertain-
ment a grand success.
	Sister Pitchforth expressed her appreciation
of all that had been done and said. Pres.
Paxman felt honored to be present at the 23rd
anniversary of the Relief Society organization,
highly appreciated the songs and recitations
and music, and heartily endorsed all that had
been said of our loved ones that had passed
away, many names had been mentioned and
there were many more whose lives had been
spent in this grand and noble work; spoke of
the time when we would meet our friends that
had passed away; exhorted the sisters to do
all the good they could, and hoped we would
all meet again in our next anniversary, and
live in joy and peace throughout all the ages
of eternity. Choir sang, "When shall we all
meet again." Benediction by Counselor C.
Sperry. Conference adjourned for three
months.
