DEATH OF JAMES RUSSEL LOWELL.

Boston, August 12;—At the mansion of
Elmwood estate, where Lowell died, there are
no members of the family today but the
daughter and son-in-law of the poet. His body
lies in the sleeping apartment where the last
hours of his life were spent. His death was
extremely peaceful. Although it was known
he could not live much longer, his death was
nevertheless rather unexpected. The transition
from sleep to death was so easy that for a few
moments nobody in the room observed that he
had ceased to breathe. His eyes were closed
and they never opened. He passed away with
only a heavy sigh to indicate the separation
of a great soul from a worn-out body. The
funeral will be held Friday at noon in Ap-
pleton Chapel, Cambridge. It is probable that
Bishop-elect Phillips Brooks will officiate.
	Lowell's health has been impaired ever
since his return to this country in 1855, after
concluding his diplomatic services abroad. A
year and a half ago his condition became
serious and a fatal termination was feared, but
his health then had a chance of recovery.
Mrs. Burnett, his only child, has been with him
constantly. She is his only near relative except
a brother, whose whereabouts is unknown.
	It appears that the poet was taken sick
about five weeks ago. About two weeks or
more ago he became delirious, and up to
Monday he recovered consciousness only at
brief intervals, when he gave the members of
his family signs of recognition. Monday after-
noon, when the nurses changed his bedding he
suffered intensely when moved, and finally said:
"Oh, why don't you let me die." Those words
were his last. He seemed from that time to
lose heart, and gradually his life faded away.
He continued in a comatose condition until
5:15 o'clock this morning, when the last spark
of life went out. Beside him in his last mo-
ments were the sister of his first wife, his
daughter, Mrs. Edward Burnett, and her hus-
band, the ex-congressman, as well as the nurses
and servants of the household.


The English suffragists, always active; are
stirred afresh by the announcement of Lord
Salisbury. The dames of the Primrose League
are said to be earnestly considering the
propriety of seeking for suffrage in accordance
with the Premier's suggestion, in order to
promote the triumph of Conservative principles.
On the other hand the Woman's Herald
quotes from meetings of Liberal Leagues in
many places, urging immediate action to
induce the Executive Council of the National
Liberal Association, at its meeting next
October, to place woman suffrage on the
Liberal programme. The National Society
for Woman Suffrage is also moving "to put
the female franchise in the forefront, and to
start an active campaign on the subject all over
the country."


