WOMEN IN POLITICS.

	Almost every day and sometimes more than
once in a day we are asked the question, "What
are you women going to do in political matters in
Utah?" Occasionally one adds "are you going to
organize on national lines?" I suppose people
think, newspaper women are the ones who ought
to talk or have an opinion on the subject.
	As for doing, studying politics to begin with
and finding out how few rights women have com-
pared to men, and how far they are protected in
those few rights, might do to begin with, con-
sidering, the Edmund's Tucker law dealt such a
sweeping blow to all women voters, that there is
scarcely a shadow of a chance to have the fran-
chise restored until very radical changes take place
in the condition of things in this Territory.
	It is possible, to be sure, for women to decide
in their own minds, whether they lean more to the
Republican or Democratic party, but it is an old
saying "the proof of the pudding is in eating it,"
and as neither the one or the other of these or-
ganizations seem disposed to recognize women
in any positive way, women are not very likely to
do more than to look on, and see those who have
it in their own hands, appreciate all the golden
opportunities to benefit themselves.
	It is sometimes a good thing to stand and wait,
and as waiting seems to be about the only thing
women can do at present in a political way, per-
haps its just as well to keep silence too, though
"they do say" that is impossible for women.
There is an opportunity to look on and learn and
if failures are useful lessons, there may be some-
thing gained.
	The Woman Suffrage Associations throughout
the Territory ought to be wide awake in plans
and methods of study that will give them practi-
cal as well as theoretical information, that will
be available at any and every point where wo-
men can help in securing good and honest gov-
ernment for all even if they do have to pay taxes,
and have no voice in saying what shall be done
with the money.
	There are some places in which woman's help
may be asked for, and certainly many places
where it is needed, even if she has no vote. The
way matters stand here with reference to women
it would be best to work for the Sixteenth
Amendment to Congress. In fact we always
have believed in the Sixteenth Amendment, that
would be killing a good many birds with one
stone. That would help all women and when
they had the ballot secured to them by an act of
Congress, it wouldn't be possible for the Legis-
lature or Governor of any State or Territory to
say it wasn't legal and whisky rings couldn't
buy up the votes and enter protest. Our idea is
the sixteenth amendment, and by that time we
will have studied the national questions and
[Column 2]
policies pretty thoroughly, and be prepared to
decide. In the mean time if there is any open-
ing for women, any possible chance to give her
political equality, there are those shrewd enough
to observe it, and report all along the line; so
that immediate action could be taken.
	Women are sufficiently interested in each other
to watch the progress of affairs politically as well
as spiritually, and to take advantage of any
suggestion that will promote the advancement
of their interest. The signs of the times signify
the onward progress that is being made through
organized effort, and the effective help women are
likely to render each other and all humanity in
the great upward movement. The increase of
love towards one another through these united
efforts is one of the most hopeful signs of the
age. The gathering together of women of so
many Nationalities and assimilating their thoughts
and ideas is almost a marvel. Even here in Utah
how many different nations are represented in
Womens' Associations. It proves conclusively
that there is a power and influence binding women
together, such as has not been heretofore; this
spirit pervades the most highly civilized and en-
lightened portions of the earth. No one can
doubt this who reads of the great organizations
of women all over the United States, Canada,
Great Britain, France, Scandinavia, and many
other countries of the old world. While all these
great events are transpiring outside, we at home
in Utah will assuredly be occupied with important
matters, civil, political, educational, and spiritual;
therefore it behooves the women of Utah to study
and find out the great underlying principles of all
good government, and note how these principles
are applied in the national parties, but it does not
yet appear to be the time of woman's choosing in
political issues until further developments of diffi-
cult questions now pending are made in this Terri-
tory.


[Column 1]
