	WOMAN SUFFRAGE.

	The spectacle of American women ( in this
"Land of the free and the home of the brave,")
convening in serious assembly to present their
views and wishes, and claiming that they have
not already, all the rights and privileges of free 
born citizens in a country whose CONSTITUTION
sets forth the statement that "all men are born
free and equal;" seems at first thought strange. 
But, knowing it to be an undisputed fact, that this 
is figurative rather than real, it may be wisdom
to illustrate the inefficiency of poetic and 
chilvalric sentiment, to compensate for the lack
of the legal and more substantial certainty of 
woman's rights. That American women are 
pre-eminently high souled, patriotic, devotional
intellectual, energetic and industrious, is ac-
knowledged. Brave, upon the frontiers of her 
country, faithful in adversity and strong in 
hope for the future of her children reared in 
the solitudes afar from the splendors of civili-
zation, deeming not even the Senate or the 
Presidency an impossibility for them; who shall
dare to call her weak-minded and incapable of 
attaining to greater usefulness that housewifery.
She who has built well, by her spirit and labors
the foundation stones of manhood and woman-
hood, - must she stand back behind those
pillars of strength that her spirit has guided
and reared aloft and be seen only as a shadow
of their greatness? Think of the mother of 
Lincoln, the mother of Garfield! When the 
victory of Washington was achieved he 
hastened to pay his respects to his aged
mother. At the Inaugural of Garfield, at its 
conclusion he turned first to kiss the mother who
had the place of honor beside him. Were all
men like these in nobility of soul, there would 
never be need of a Woman Suffrage Association;
and though there may be thousands of men as
noble and tender in their households yet the 
lever of justice is needed to "leaven the whole 
lump" of humanity. 
	Our own States and Territories differ in 
their own laws for women and children, there is 
not a uniformity of legal protection and justice
throughout America. A man may do in one 
State what in another would be an outrage.
In one eastern State an Amercian girl married a 
foreigner and her husband had legal authority 
to send her children to Europe to be educated
and detained her at home. Another on his death 

[Column 2]
bed bequeathed his three children to his own
relatives in China, and left so little a portion to 
their mother that she was unable to follow
them, nor could she legally do so.
	A noted actress became intemperate, because
her husband pocketed the large sums which 
her popularity and ability earned, spent it in 
high living and gambling and doled out to her
what he considered proper. Had he a right
to her earnings? A man of humbler origin, 
refused to work for less than three and a half 
a day, because it would be lowering himself in 
the eyes of his trade (mining,) so he stolidly 
waited, "holding the fort" of his dignity all 
summer, while his wife went out washing five
days in the week to provide for six children,
pay the rent and furnish him with tobacco and
overalls. Thus, the dignity of manhood and
the submission of wife were properly sustained.
Thus; the lights and shadows are scattered
over land, - forever passing before us is an 
endless panorama of scenes that enliven or dis-
hearten the thoughtful. Where woman is so 
much concerned, can it be inappropriate for
her sisters of freer spirit and stronger courage
to speak in her behalf? Can it be wrong for 
those noble and generous of nature, touched by 
sympathy, to inquire into our laws and see if 
something cannot be done for those less fortu-
nate? What harm or injury has ever resulted
from woman's studying Law a little? What
if certain eminent ladies learned and famous
have quarrelled! Have not eminent legal
gentlemen done the same? And have not per-
sons with no attainments at all quarrelled also?
It ever takes a cause to produce a result!
	Then, again, of our cause or reason is good, 
(for humanity's sake) for studying law or poli-
tics, why not go ahead? As the opposite sex
has crossed over into our domestic domain
and taken some of our avocations from us, why
should we not overtake the invader and capture
some of his professions and emoluments? If
men in certain eastern cities have the right to
control the laundries, and give ladies' clothing
into the Chinaman's hands to wash, thus tak-
ing that branch of business from women, is it
not time that free women arose and said some-
thing?
	But we must not look on the study of poli-
tics as either aggressive or defensive, though
sometimes such are its uses.
	The study of politics is one of the grandest
and perfect, next to religion; in reality one of
the powers of God. It is a portion of His
grand system. I once heard an illiterate man
thus begin a prayer: "Almighty God, King
of Heaven and earth." This is a truth. Can we
think of Him otherwise than as a King? And 
how can it otherwise than enoble and
strengthen us, if we study government, order, 
and justice from the highest and best of earthly
sources, seeking also by the spirit of prayer
and the words of revelation, the more perfect
plan.
	The most beloved Sovereign on earth is a
woman, her Court the purest in morals, her
judges beyond bribes, her soil a refuge for the 
persecuted, and - Oh, America! there the 
Apostles of Truth and the humble convert to 
the faith are safe from mobs, and Courts of
bigotry. "The sun sets not on Her dominions,
and its eternal lights and warmth are the em-
blems of her rule and reign. Look upon 
Victoria, Queen of England, and Empress of
India and judge! by that beacon light so high
that all the world can see, if study - attain-
ments, splendor and power; knowledge the 
broadest and highest, opportunities unlimited -
and freedom unrestricted have made her less a 
wife, - less a mother, - less an honored woman?
	Daughters of Zion, our Heavenly King and
Father has shown us along the pages of His
Holy Book, what woman has been, with His 
approval; and He has a work for us in the 

[Column 3]
future. We were called upon to take be
ginners' lessons in our different Associations
and Societies, and felt weak at first but learning
our duties, found them not too hard. Perhaps
it will be the same in this new branch of knowl-
edge. Let us learn all we may and do the
best we can to help womanhood. The voice
of the many is a power, and, according to the 
Census, women outnumber men; therefore, the
majority of our sex, and the weight of our sex's 
claims for justice weigh heavily in the balance.
We are willing to step into the scales. Gentle-
men - assist us to ascend the steps, and please, 
remain by our side.
	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	May 26, 1891.


