IN MEMORIAM.
Juarez, July 6, 1891.
MRS. E. B. WELLS,
	DEAR FRIEND;
	I have desired to write a few lines in memory of our
two dear young friends, so suddenly and unexpectedly
called away, Parley and Aurelia, or Eda, as we called her,
son and daughter of Heleman and Victoria Pratt, beloved
and prized beyond measure by all in the home circle, be-
loved and mourned by all who knew them.  Their last
visit to Juarez was to attend the conjoint meeting and
Eda's name was on the programme for the next meeting
they took the deepest interest in the Improvement Associa-
tion, coming twelve miles to attend that and the Sunday 
School and meetings.
	May the Lord comfort those upon whom the loss falls so
heavily, as He alone can comfort, giving peace to the
aching hearts, and may He help them to realize that they
had a mission in the Spirit world, that they were prepared
and ready for the Father's work there, as they were ever
ready to do their part in the labors of this life, their will-
ing hands and cheerful presence will be sadly missed in 
the home circle, and among their friends, and associates
and although the parting is hard--

	'Tis sweet to give them back pure as they came,
	Untarnished by a tint of sin or shame—
Now with the ransomed we can write Parley and Eda's
	name.

But oh, the hearts at home are very sad,
Longing for those who always made them glad,
And the poor throbbing brain goes almost mad,

Thinking of vacant places, of why they had to go,
So young, so full of life, in youth's first morning glow,
When all looked bright to them and beautiful below.

Dear Eda said, sobbing by Parley's grave,
"I cannot live without him," and the wave,
Of death rolled back, and her we could not save.

So now the sunlight rests upon the two,
Still side by side as thus in life they grew.
Loving and kind and ever good and true.

Two silent graves upon the mountain's crest,
Two mortal bodies sleep in quiet rest,
Two glorious spirits with the pure and blest.

Mysterious birth entrance to death and pain,
Mysterious death, portal to life again,


And happy they who this blest life attain,
There victory will be the victor's cry,
There never, never more the loved ones die,
There never, never more will come good-bye.

Peace to the dear beloved one's gone before,
Treasured their memories 'til time shall be no more,
And we'll meet in glad reunion upon the golden shore.
	S. E. R.


Woman's Voice
AND PUBLIC SCHOOL CHAMPION.
	A bright  newsy weekly paper, treating of all
reforms that affect women; is a firm defender of
the public schools, and gives information concern-
ing them.
	It contains reports of the W. C. T., the King's
Daughters and Missions.
	Exposes the dangers threatening the nation
from Immigration, the Liquor Traffic and Roman-
ism—gives full reports of the world-renowned
Boston Music Hall Patriotic Sunday afternoon
meetings.
PRICE $1.00 PER YEAR. SAMPLE COPY 3 cts.
	Address: ELIZA TRASK HILL.
Editor and General Manager, Room 9, Tremont
	Temple, Boston, Mass.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS, BOOKS
AND STATIONAERY, EQUI-
POISE WAITS, ETC.
Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates 
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
Feathers curled, etc. Stamping done to order. But
tons covered while you wait. Burial Suits a Specialty.
No. 123 E. FIRST SOUTH STREET,
Opposite City Hall.

