AGAIN COMFORTED.

	Is it not humiliating to be ruled over by those
who hate us? but since the Lord will have a tried
people He will help us bear our trials, if we will
put our trust in Him; for He has said, such shall
never be confounded.
	He also says those whom He loves He
chastens. Remember it is in love and not in
anger, that we have this chastisement today. We
know it is in love when we behold the elements,
how lovely and pleasant has been this summer
when every prospect last winter was drouth, as it
had been two previous seasons. Wells dried up
that had never been dry before.
	But what do we see, lovely clouds floating in
the horizon with cool and refreshing showers
continually, until all nature is looking luxuriant
and prosperous, yes vegetation and fruit are both
excellent this season.
	I also notice that Judge Zane's remarks before
the Republican party were sound and god. I
am told he is an infidel, yet he is an honest man,
we can see in those remarks. He has chastised in
severity at times, but I can forgive him since he is
true to his convictions of right, and maintains
those principles he holds to be right; and is
anxious that good laws should be observed and
kept. Our Father in heaven will require the
same in His kingdom when it shall be set up on
the earth; for we realize this is a preparatory
work to that great event.
	I think our rulers are a little too fast in making
improvements however. They wish them to be
superior to ours; accordingly hurry up matters.
For instance my sister's family, last year put
down a new side walk, it cost 96 dollars. This
season a notice came to have another of a different
kind, put in its place making greater expense.
The law must be obeyed no doubt, and those who
own property must pay the expense, and the taxes
too however high. Yet we still hope they will be
reasonable, as they are sometimes; and again
they are more austere and severe.
	It seems to me that this "liberal" party show
more venom and bitterness than any other. Well
let us search ourselves and see if we need such
severity to make us true Latter-day Saints. We
have the promise "if ye will live Godly in Christ
Jesus ye shall suffer persecution." The Lord can-
not make saints of a proud people. Let us re-
flect, and study our own hearts thoroughly is the
desire of your aged friend.			M. E. K.


