CHARLES ELLIS’ PAMPHLET.

   We have only recently scanned the pages of the
pamphlet by “Charles Ellis” (non-Mormon) en-
titled, “Utah 1847 to 1870,” although we had
previously heard two of his famous lectures in
the Theatre in this City. The little book seems
to be a very concise account of the condition
and circumstances of this people during the
period mentioned and also of the treatment they
received during that time from the government
officials and the mobs etc.
   Mr. Ellis’ description of what we term the
grasshopper famine, is quite graphic, and in ad-
dition to what he has told there, thousands of
other similar facts might be given to the world,
and many hundreds of the saints are still living
witnesses of these truths. When we recall circum-
stances which came under our own observation,
the tears will start in despite of every effort to
hinder their falling. Remembering the hard-
ships and privations of those early years in the
valley and the exodus from Nauvoo, the writer
can never listen to murmurings or complaints
without alluding to the past. It seems as though
the hardest-hearted must weep over the famine
for bread in the land. Is it any wonder in view
of these things that mothers should be anxious
to store up grain against another such fearful
time? Mothers whose children have cried for
bread when there was none to give them, are very
likely to impress this solemn fact upon their
daughters if not their sons. This little book
written by one who is not a believer in the Mor 
mon faith but only looks at the matter honestly
and fairly ought to be widely circulated to help in
removing prejudice against this people, who are
struggling to secure and to maintain good gov-
ernment and equal rights to all parties, Mormon,
Jew or Gentile who settle within the Territory.
   The compliment he has paid to Brigham Young
is every word of it true and much more might be
said; even the outside world are beginning to ac-
knowledge the greatness and magnanimity of the
character of this departed leader. Mr. Ellis says
as others do quoting their words, “Brigham was
a great man.” Speaking of him in the following
terms.
   “He was; and when the world sees him as he
was; when the clouds of falsehood condensed
above the quagmires of hate have been scattered
by the sun of truth and the world is permitted for
the first time to see the man, it too will declare
that Brigham Young was a great man! From 1847
to 1870, through trials that would have left an
average man defeated and broken before he had
fairly entered upon them, he was a William of
Orange, a Cromwell, and to his own people, a
Washington.
   His enemies have never wearied of pointing to
the great walls he had built in Salt Lake as evi-
dence that he was preparing to defy the govern-
ment. Those walls would be no obstacle to an
army, and they were built in the years when
thousands of poor Mormons were coming into the
country without means of subsistence. Brigham
was opposed to feeding paupers, and to make a
way for wise charity, he kept hundreds of poor
men at work building cobblestone walls, that he
might support them by the church funds. Well
it would be if all charity were as wisely bestowed.
He made men industrious, and filled Utah with
thriving farmers, by teaching the importance of
industry.
   In the stormy days of that infamous “war” he
was a king among men—“aye, every inch a king!"
He was the invincible protector of a people who,
had done no wrong; who had been guilty of no
crime save that of holding a faith that was re-
pudiated by crystalized and corrupt theology.
Such kings as he

			“Repress the bold,
	And while they flourish, make an age of gold.”

   He found Utah a desert; he made it a garden.
From the despotisms of social life in other lands
he took tens of thousands of people unto whom life
offered nothing, for whom a Christianity of caste
had nothing but stones and scorpions, and made
them prosperous, loyal citizens of the fruitful
valleys of this divine mountain land.
   He lived and died a lover of the Constitution
of his native land, and left behind him a great,
strong, united people, who, when the ambitious
Catholic priesthood and the intriguing combina-
tion of protestant priesthoods have clutched the
Constitution of our country to destroy it and
banish freedom from the land, will be among the
foremost to spring to the rescue and drive back
the vandal hosts of tyrranny! For all these rea-
sons, I say Brigham Young never was, the Mor 
mon people never were, are not now, and I have
faith that they never will be, disloyal to the Con-
stitution and the flag.


