EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Woman's Tribune is certainly one of the
best papers in the United States for women. It
gives general information on all subjects in which
women are interested. It is published weekly in
in Beatrice, Neb., and during the winter in Wash-
ington, D. C. 
	President Zina D. H. Young and Counselor
Jane S. Richards of the Presidency of the Relief
Society attended the quarterly Conference of the
R. S. of  Morgan Stake on Saturday Aug. 1st
and also the Conference of the Young Ladies'
Associations of that Stake. Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze 
of the Y. L. M. I. A. went up to the Conference
of the Young Ladies' and we are informed that
they had a most interesting time, and an excellent
spirit and feeling with good instructions in all the
meetings. In Ogden Sisters Young and Richards
attended a meeting of the Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation and addressed the ladies. 
Sister Hannah Sorenson who has been giving
lectures on health and hygiene, and subjects con-
nected therewith, also teaching nursing and
kindred subjects to classes of ladies for some
time past,  and meeting with excellent success
and appreciation in the different settlements
where she has taught, has been invited to speak
to select audiences of gentlemen only in Spring-
ville, and complied with the request after some
deliberation. Why should not a woman Doctor 
speak to men as well as men, Doctors to women?
One seems no more inconsistent than the other.
There ought to be one code of morals for both


sexes and that is what people of advanced views
upon reforms are working to bring about.
 
 Sister Olivia Widerborg, President of the
Relief Society of Box Elder Stake, in company
with the Presidency of the Stake, has re-
cently visited Snowville, Park Valley, and
Grouse Creek, at each of which places district
conferences were held lasting two days. Presi-
dent Widorberg was invited to speak at each of
these places in connection with the brethren; she
enjoyed herself very much and was given the ut-
most liberty and treated with the utmost cordiality
by the brethren traveling. These districts are so
far removed from the centre of the Stake where
the quarterly conferences are held that it
is impracticable for the people to attend, there-
fore the necessity for these district conferences

The Secretaries of the Relief Society in the
Salt Lake Stake are earnestly requested to send
semi-annual reports correctly prepared to the
Secretary of the Relief Society of the Stake,
Elizabeth Howard, No. 58. E. 4th South St. Salt
Lake City. Mrs. M. Isabella Horne has visited
nearly every R. S. in this Stake during the past
few months. In nearly every branch visited the
sisters are energetic and persevering, desirous of
performing every duty, and anxious to make
spiritual improvement, as well as to take care of
the needy and the sick. These visits of Pres.
Horne and her Counselors and aids will be bene-
ficial in promoting harmony, unity and love, and
in encouraging all to press forward and be more
and more diligent and faithful.


