LETTER.

	Smithfield, June 16th, 1891.
	MY DARLING SISTER: 
	Your dear, pleasant letter, descriptive of
your journey, (through the Geography), was
duly received, thrice read, and much appre-
ciated.—One point, I wondered at your hav-
ing missed; didn’t your guide direct you to
the world famed Falls of Niagara? I should
like to have had your opinion of them.—
Wouldn’t it be fine if we could really travel,
you and I, and visit some of those places of
interest?—
	But sometimes I wonder if we, young peo-
ple favored to be Utah born, duly appreciate
the grandeur and beauty of scenery by which
we are surrounded, here at home; or if we
realize as we should, the peaceful, happy cir-
cumstances under which we have been privi-
leged to be born and reared; I fear that often
we do not.
	Today I have been strolling by the lovely
clear stream that flows through, and gladdens
the heart of this settlement. Have gathered
sweet, wild flowers; rested in a quiet, shady
nook; listened to the songs of praise from the
throats of the feathery warblers which inhabit
the tree tops, and heard also the voice of
thanksgiving in the sound of the rippling
waters, as they sped onward, joyously fulfilling
the parts assigned them in the great perform-
ance of Nature. And my own heart was
awakened to a sense of the deep gratitude due
from me to my Heavenly Father, for His
abundant mercies. Thoughts of my dear
home, which it is now nearly a year since I left,
recalled to memory’s view, the peaceful
thoughtful face of my father, who still remains
to comfort, encourage and instruct his little
flock, and lead them in the path of truth and
honor. My gentle mother, too, whose fair
face smiles beneath a crown now tinged with
gray, and whose dear voice I seemed to hear
exclaim, “Oh! Father bless my absent child,
and bring her safe to me again.” And Auntie,
with her kind and loving heart. My brothers
brave and true; my sisters pure and chaste
and happy hearted, all gathering round the
hearth at home.—But now they do not gather
as in days gone by. For men who know
nothing of the joys which we have known, say
we must no longer dwell in peace as we have
hitherto done. And God, for some wise pur-
pose suffers it to be so now. But though
power is granted men to separate us in our
homes, they cannot break the band of love
which unites our hearts, thrt one strong band
of everlasting love. And though they may
disturb, they cannot destroy our peace of mind.
Those whose hearts are united in the love of
Christ, whose lives are spent in doing good,
who strive to know and do the will of God,
seeking to gain Eternal lives in the world to
come, will always find much to rejoice over.
	These and many other reflections have passed
through my mind. And while all nature lifts
the voice of praise to the Great Creator, shall
not we praise Him too with prayer and song,
for His protecting care?

[Column 2]
	While listening to the gentle ripple of the
stream, and watching its playful, sparkling
dimples, I thought, how like its wayward, noisy
course, had the hours of my childhood glided
by. No clouds of care or trouble ever made
me sad, or even thoughtful of the great waves,
of the rushing tide so soon to be reached in the
busy life of womanhood; the days, weeks,
months and years passed so swiftly by. To-
day, for the first time in eighteen years, I have
plucked wild flowers within the shady grove,
where oft in childhood I, with other free,
light-hearted children played.
	On my way to this place, as the train
rounded the point of the mountain, emerging
from the canyon, and coming into full view of
this beautiful valley, I gazed upon the home
where I had passed the happiest days of my
childhood, the place in which all my school
days were spent; bright days long to be re-
membered; loved teachers, never to be for-
gotten. I called to mind the first lines of one
of the beautiful songs our uncle D. sings:
	
	“Fond recollections, like visions steal o'er me,
	Taking me back to my once happy home;
	Scenes of my childhood are ever before me,
	Fresh in my memory, wherever I roam.”

	Then I scanned briefly the pages of memory’s
volume, turning them one by one, and noting
the swiftly changing, shifting scenes; sometimes
smooth and clear as summer skies, and some-
times dark and cloudy. But I am not going
to dwell on sorrowful themes. You should see
uncle D. and his wife, if you would behold,
what seems to me, a perfect representation of
wedded life. They are so well suited to each
other, and so happy in each other’s love.  And
what picture can be more interesting than
such a reality as this?
	In a little book which aunt has lent me, I
find these lines:

