FOREIGN LETTER.

	Douglas, Isle of Man July 5, 1891.
DEAR MARY:
Since I last wrote to  you I have seen
several places. Castletown is a very, very
old town, which was once inhabited by
smugglers. The houses are all very strongly
built, the walls very thick to resist attacks


The town derives its name from Castle
Rushen, which is a more imposing and
majestic than picturesque castle. It was
thought to have been built 947 from those
figures in Arabic, which were found cut on an
old beam in a recess behind the old gateway,
by some workmen who were making alterations
in the building; “but the ground for this
assumption was completely cut away by the
fact that Arabic figures were unknown in
Europe for nearly three centuries later A.
D. 947.” The wall around the Castle is 25
feet high and 9 feet thick In the Castle is a
curious old clock which was presented by
Queen Elizabeth in 1597. The clock has
been ticking ever since with the exception of
the time for repairs.
	A few days ago Ma and I took a long
walk into the country.  We walked two
miles along such pretty lanes, with the butter-
cups, daisies and other wild flowers growing
on the grass by the roadside and in the fields.
We passed some gipsies who wanted to tell
our fortunes, but we did not care to have
them told. There were many fruits and
flowergardens along the road. We went into
one and bought some strawberries in a cabbage
leaf. They had a delicious flavor just fresh
from the garden.
	We had horrible weather a week ago, but
for the last few days, it has been fine lovely
and warm.
	Yesterday the fonrth of July it was a lovely
sunny day, the sea had scearcely a ripple on
on it. Of course there were no celebrations
here. Today it is very windy and it has been
raining almost continually.
	We have moved from the place we were
staying first in a house just above it, as at the
first place, the owners of it had rented their
apartments to some one else before we
had decided to stay a week longer. In the
dining room we have now, there is a book
case full of good books with which we amuse
ourselves, when we are not out of doors.
	July 13:—I haven’t been anywhere much
since writing you last except to Saxey to
see Saxey wheel. We went on a steamer, it
is only about seven miles from Douglas.
The wheel is a huge affair. Just imagine
a wheel fully as tall when standing on the
ground as a four story house, each story as
high as ours at home. There was a winding
staircase to go up to the top, but I didn’t care
to go. A man who went up was just shaking
when he came down and he said he never felt
so nervous in his life as when he was up at the
top. The wheel is used in a lead mine to
draw the water out.
	Many of the girls here have lovely hair
and complexions, but their teath are almost
all bad.*	*
	It seems a shame, but I wonder if it is not
with drinking so much hot tea. Most of
them have tea four times a day, two cups at
each meal. The landladies think we are very
strange as we do not care for the English tea
and do not have supper just before we go to
bed at 10 o’clock. *	*	*
	Your Loving Friend.
	LIB.


