MAY WRIGHT SEWALL’S LETTER.

	The anticipated conference of French wo-
men with Mrs. Potter Palmer, referred to in a
former letter, took place at Mrs. Palmer's
apartments in the Grand Hotel, on the after-
noon of July 1. The first part of it assumed
the character of an informal reception. About
forty persons were present, who constituted
quite a distinguished assembly. M. and Mme.
De Morsier, M. and Mme. Bogelot, M. Mansais,
L. Poeot. Mme. Marie Martin, and Mme.
Kôchlin Schwartz, with other representatives
[Column 2]
of the French Congress, recalled the committee
meetings of 1889. The presence of Mme.
Yoes Gyat (wife of the minister of Public
Works) with Mlle. Gyat, her daughter, of M.
Jules Siegfried, (one of the most influential
members of the Chamber of Deputies,) and 
Mme Siegfried, and the arrival of M. Jules
Simon lent a sort of official recognition to the
affair.
	Among Americans present may be named
Mrs. J. Robert  McKee, Mrs. Russell Harrison,
Mrs. John A. Logan (accompanied by her son
and daughter-in-law), and Mr. Theodore
Stanton. Among other interesting people
whom we met was M. Napoleon Ney (grandson
of the illustrious Marshal Ney), who is deeply
interested in modern sociel problems, and
whose wife is conspicuously identified with
various charitable works conducted by wo-
men.
	Mrs. Palmer received and entertained her
guests with much grace and cordiality. After
an hour spent in sociability and in partaking
of delicate refreshments, Mme. DeMorsier
called the meeting to order and explained its
objects. Mrs. Palmer followed with an ac-
count of the formation of the Board of Lady
Managers, and a statement of its wishes in re-
spect to foreign countries. Great interest was
manifested, and many inquiries propounded
particularly by M. Jules Siegfried, who evi-
dently thought it more important that the ad-
vancement of French women in liberal ideas,
in charities, in education, and in associated
effort should be represented in the various 
congresses to be held in connection with the 
Exposition, than that the actual results of their
industry should be displayed in the Exposition
itself.
	I had been advised that I should be asked to
speak on behalf of the International Council
of Women to be convened in Chicago in 1893;
but, fearing that the discussion of the Council
would result in confusing the minds of those
less thoroughly informed concerning its organ-
ization than are Mme. De Morsier and her
immediate associates, I asked Mme. De Morsier
to excuse me, so that the entire time of the for-
mal séance might be given to discussing the
representation of women's work in our great
Fair. I, however had an opportunity to talk
about the Council in private conversation with 
many of the leaders here, and I have every
reason to believe that men and women alike of
the progressive school will exert themselves to
see that several representative delegates from
organizations of French women sit in the
Council of '93.
	An amusing incident of the conference was
a lively discussion in regard to the construc-
tion of the honorary committee. The name
of M. Jules Siegfried was suggested, but the
nomination, though heartily supported by all
present, was positively declined by the nomi-
nee, who boldly asserted that it was unfitting
to place any man at the head of such a com-
mittee, and advocated with no little eloquence
the propriety of placing Mme. De Morsier at
the head of a committee composed entirely of
women, with the understanding that the gen-
tlemen interested should form a sort of un-
official advisory board. However, all the wo-
men present evidently thought a man at its
head absolutely essential to the dignity of the
committee, and the friendly dispute was termi-
nated by the arrival of M. Jules Simon, who,
upon Mme. De Morsier's motion, accepted the
honorary presidency of the committee, to the
evident surprise of some, but the equally evi-
dent satisfaction of all parties. With this ac-
tion the formal conference adjourned to con-
vene at the same place on the following day,
Thursday, July 2, at two o'clock.
	In this second conference I also had the pleas-
ure of participating. There were present only
fourteen, but the number included no Americans
[Column 3]
excepting Mrs. Palmer and myself, and the
serious enthusiasm with which preliminary
committees were made up and practical  ques-
tions discussed augurs well for the representa-
tions of French women in the Exposition of
'93.
	Arrangements were made to bring the mat-
ter properly before the government in order to
secure its approval and aid. The result of
Mrs Palmer's interview with the minister I
have not learned, as on July 3 we left Paris,
where we had lingered a week beyond our
original plan, in order that I might use the op
portunities afforded by the various conferences
and meetings going forward at this time to en-
list the sympathies and interest of the French
women in the International Council of Women
and to watch the steps being taken to con-
federate their own various societies into a
National Council of women of France. Their
steps are being taken with great circumspec-
tion, but the result is considered assured by
those who are best informed concerning the
progress of social reform in this country.
	Rome, July 14, '91.
					The Woman's Journal.


