[Vol7 | September 1920 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Her Luck Clara S. Fagergren]

Her Luck Clara S. Fagergren. The midday sun beat fiercely down on Mrs. West's back porch. It shone unmercifully on Mrs. West's bent back, where she stood by a tub of blueing water finishing up the week's washing. , Mrs. West's temper — at all times near the inflammable mark — was today close to the exploding point. Everything had gone wrong. Her next door neighbor had hindered her from getting an early start with her washing by talking to her over the back fence fully an hour, telling about Tom's toothache that kept them all awake, and about the symptoms of disease she herself felt in her left side. Then a friend had called Mrs. West up over the telephone, keeping her fidgeting first on one foot and then on the other for a long time. When the friend got through talking she hadn't West felt said cheated. anything that was worth repeating, after all. Mrs. In the middle of the washing the washboiler sprung a leak. The exasperated woman tried every known remedy for leaks: plastering the hole in the boiler with soap, with dough, with strips of paper soaked in glue, and finally dropping a handful of cornmeal in the water which eventually settled to the bottom, stopping the leak temporarily. But she had been hindered. Her working schedule was out of order, and like all systematic housekeepers she felt upset and vexed at the delays which had prevented her from getting through her work early. But the straw that broke the camel's back was when the wash machine broke down. Mrs. West felt downright disgusted, irritable, cross, and hated herself and everybody else, but most of all her husband, who wanted her to slave and work in the heat, while other women could hire help and send their washing out. Yes, undoubtedly, she was one of the unappreciated wives, who could go on toiling and moiling until she dropped dead in her tracks! Other women could dress in the latest fashion and ride around in autoniobiles. She was destined to remodel her old dresses, trim her own hats, and be satisfied to ride in the street cars. O, the injustice of it all. But it was just her luck to have married a poor man;  one who was content to drawbare wages at a steady job;  one who had no ambition but to eat three meals a day, and who was happy 
 to own a bed in which he could sleep his regular eight hours every night. Some men, — here Mrs. West's thoughts were interrupted by the object of her wrath appearing unexpectedly around the corner of the house. She gave him a black look of surprise and chagrin;  surprise for seeing him at this hour, and chagrin at the thought of not having anything ready for him to eat, — Mr. West's appearance at home was invariably the signal for meals. Mr. West's greeting did not include food, however. "I've got half a day off," he cried, jovially. "Do hurry and get through with your work so we can go out to the lake!" This was adding insult to injury. Mrs. West fairly bristled with rage and pent-up feelings of self-pity. She let loose a torrent of complaints, punctuated by angry tears, that fairly threatened to submerge poor Mr. West, had he not been used to her outbursts and knowing that her bark was worse than her bite. The lake, indeed! Did he think she could drop her work at a minute's notice to run out to the lake? Even if she did, what would she wear? She didn't own a decent dress to her back. Other women's husbands supplied their, wives with stylish clothes. But of course they were particular about their wives' appearance. Mr. West knew the tirade by heart but he wisely refrained from interrupting until his wife stopped for sheer lack of breath, when he firmly and determinedly put forth his argument: "An outing will do you good. Let me help you finish the work while you go and get ready. We can get some lunch down town, that will save you from getting anything ready at home. Do be reasonable! If you won't go with me I'll go alone, because I'm determined to have one more dip in that water before the summer is over. Mrs. Ramsey will look after the children. I spoke to her on my way home. She'll be right over." Mrs. West knew full well her husband meant' business when he talked in that determined tone. Inwardly knowing that she would enjoy the outing, but hating to give in so easily, she uttered a few feeble protests before finally getting ready, leaving Mr. West to finish up the odds and ends of work. The afternoon was ideal for an outing. Mrs. West met a number of acquaintances, among whom was her former schoolmate, Alice Palmer, whom she had not seen for over ten years. While at school Alice had the reputation of being the prettiest girl in the class, much to the envy of the other HER LUCK 513 girls, who used to copy her dress and imitate her manners. Among her many suitors Alice had picked out and married a man much older than herself but reputed to be wealthy. She had altered sadly in looks since Mrs. West saw her last;  in fact, Mrs. West all but regarded the former beauty in open-mouthed astonishment. Alice's delicate white and pink complexion had changed to a dry, leathery color. Her former fluffy, light hair looked scanty and faded underneath the outrageously ancient hat. Her big blue eyes that men used to rave over, were sunken and lusterless. Her dress was not only old-fashioned in design;  it was downright archaic in its makeup. And this woman had married for wealth? Mrs. West was dumbfounded. Alice noticed the questioning look in her friend's eye and drew her aside to a quiet corner, evidently glad to have met some one with whom she could talk over old times. They settled down on a bench near the band stand, where they could not only watch the dancers but also obtain a good view of the lake. Alice's eyes filled with tears as she related some of the hardships she had been forced to go through. "You see," she narrated in the dreary monotone of one who suffered much, "my husband invested all his money in dry land, thinking it would double in value when the new irrigation project, of which promoters were talking, should be completed. This talked-of irrigation system would give our land an abundance of water, but somehow or other the project fell through, and we were left with a lot of worthless land on our hands which we could not dispose of at any price. "We tried our hand at raising an orchard. We succeeded in borrowing enough money to buy and set a few hundred fruit trees. With our own hands we drew water from a deep well and carried it in buckets to water those trees. They flourished and grew for four or five years, and we counted on picking our first crop;  the trees were loaded with fruit. We planned and schemed to be out of debt by selling that fruit;  it was a pleasure to see the quality and quantity of it. "Then one hot and windy day in August, which I shall never forget, a grass fire, started carelessly by some one, swept through our orchard, scorching every tree that did not outright catch on fire. The unripe fruit shriveled up and fell off the trees with a sound as if it were raining lead bullets. Our hopes and labor of years went up in smoke. "We next tried chicken raising. A farmer living on a 
 dry farm next to ours had made money by raising chickens, so we decided to try our luck at it. We went in debt for eggs and bought an incubator on the installment plan. By good luck nearly all the eggs hatched. I never grew tired of counting those chickens;  there were over five hundred of them. I began planning again, but I planned too early. That spring we had an unusual lot of rain, it rained incessantly for a month. We had not prepared for a siege of wet weather, and in consequence most of our newly hatched chickens died. There is nothing so disastrous for little chickens as wet, chilly weather, especially if there is no protected, warm place where they can be kept. "We have tried to raise everything that can be raised on a dry-farm and failed," Alice concluded, moodily. "I didn't mind the hard work and the repeated failures of our undertakings so much as the lonesome, monotonous existence that I have been forced to live. You people who live in town can get away at least from the drudgery of housework for a few hours if you wish. Not so with the woman on the farm. She stays right there. Look at me! You naturally wonder at my coming out among people in such clothes as these, but I just made up my mind to see the lake this summer, come what may. My husband and I got up at four o'clock this morning and came a distance of fifty miles on a motor truck with one of our neighbors. It's over ten years since either one of us has been out here. Do you wonder at my wanting to make every precious moment count?" She looked wistfully out over the shiny water of the lake, at the seagulls feeding by the pavilion, and at the little steamer chugging away at the distance. She turned longingly towards the nearby city where it lay plainly outlined against the hillside in orderly, green bordered squares. "Little did I appreciate the modern conveniences of city life," she went on. "When I went out on that farm I actually pictured myself as a millionaire's wife, having servants, automobiles, and reigning like a queen over a vast estate. How rudely our plans are shattered! I have learned during these long, disappointing years not to plan too far in advance. Nevertheless, I have not lost hope altogether;  believing a change for the better will come my way and anticipating more prosperous days. I have learned also not to place too much faith in one's own ambitions and worldly aspirations, but to trust more in a Higher Being." Mrs. West experienced a feeling of wealth and satisfaction as she compared her own conveniently built, electrically lighted, snug little bungalow and well-kept yard to her friend's HER LUCK 815 desolate, far-away home. She sat talking with Alice such a long time that her husband finally came looking for her. She could see him at a distance. With him was a man in rusty black, his shoulders stooped, his face prematurely aged. It was Alice's husband. Beside him Mr. West appeared almost handsome. Mr. West had never been guilty of taking prizes at beauty contests, but he dressed neatly and in good taste and had an honest, straight-forward look in his eyes that made everybody trust and like him. No wonder Mrs. West glowed with pride as she surveyed his approaching. After a refreshing plunge in the lake and eating lunch together with Alice and her husband the Wests took an early train for home, not wishing to stay away too long from the children. Their friends stayed for a later train. They wished to make the most of their outing. Mrs. West noticed in a seat opposite her, a man apparently blind, who was circuitously looked after by his wife, a little frail, delicate-looking woman. Two women close by were discussing the afflicted man in audible whispers. "He's been losing his sight gradually for over a year and now he's completely blind," one woman confided to the other. "Do for a living?" "Why, that brave Little woman slaves and works night and day. Takes in sewing;  does copy-work at home; * anything that will bring in a little money, yet keep her by the side of her husband. They say she's even trying to teach him to cut and sew carpet rags. Imagine having a man sitting about the house all day working on carpet rags! His trade? He used to be a first class printer and earned good money at his trade. He must feel terrible to be a burden to his wife;  however, she seems to take his misfortune optimistically, working and striving to make ends meet." Mrs. West felt heartily ashamed of herself and her petty grievances. She had seen enough of real unhappiness and genuine affliction to appreciate her many blessings. Here she was, enjoying good health, the mother of several bright, healthy children, and the wife of an honest, hard-working man who brought his wages home untouched to her every Saturday night. Suddenly she felt unworthy of so many riches. The train from the lake was an ancient affair that shook, and bumped, and threw the passengers together. Mrs. West thumped her head against her husband's shoulder with amusing regularity, causing them to look at one another and smile. He encircled her somewhat stout waist with his arm and held her hand — a little roughened and hardened from work — just like he used to hold it in years gone by, before they were 
 married when coming home from the lake. Looking into her face happily he said mysteriously: "I have good news to tell you, Lucy. Guess what it is?" She felt a sudden intuition of his news. "Did you get a raise?" she asked, breathlessly. "Yes, and it's for you to decide what we are going to do with it. Shall we buy an automobile on the instalment plan, or shall we hire some one to help you with the house work?" "We'll spend it for neither," she answered, contentedly. "We'll put it in the bank and save it for a rainy day. It's my luck to have everything I need."