[Vol7 | September 1920 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Mrs. May Wright Sewell]

Mrs. May Wright Sewell Mrs. Susa Young Gates. There has passed into the land of shadows one of the greatest woman would who lived in modern times, Mrs. May Wright Sewell. Born in 1844, she died July 23, 1920, at her home in Indianapolis. Her husband. Professor Theodore Lovet Sewell, was prominent in educational work until his death in 1895. Mrs. Sewell might be spoken of as the second one of that trio of peerless organizers and leaders which began with Susan B. Anthony and carried over to the present day in Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt. Dominant, infinitely resourceful, charming in her manner, intellectual without pedantry, brilliant and witty without petty spite or sarcasm, rigorous in her devotion to duty, she was as perfect a leader as this age of woman has produced. To see her conduct a great congress of thousands of women, according to parliamentary law, without confusion, with perfect fairness to all, with a superb dignity, which was never disturbed and a lightninglike seizure of every possible side of a long and involved discussion, was an education in leadership not surpassed by any man or woman living or dead. She was one of the quartet, and pre-eminent among them, who were trained under the beneficent leadership of Susan B. Anthony: May Wright Sewell, Rachel Foster Avery, Anna Howard Shaw, and Ida Husted Harper. Strange, indeed, that the first three of these died within the year. Dr. Shaw died July 2, 1919, Mrs. Avery died October 26, 1919, and Mrs. Sewell on the 23d of July, 1920. Mrs. Harper, the famous historian, alone remains of Miss Anthony's beloved quartet of "girls."
Mrs. May Wright Sewell began her public work in the development, in connection with her husband, of a finishing school for girls at her home in Indianapolis. This school was nationally famous and many of the most brilliant and promising 
 young women of the day studied there during the closing decade of the last century. We have one of the pupils in Utah, Miss Lucile Francke, a newspaper woman of local note. After her husband's death, Mrs. Sewell became more and more absorbed in her public career and the school finally died out. The writer spent a week at Mrs. Sewell's home and visited there several times in the late 90's. Her stately courtesy and beautiful hospitality is one of my rich memories. Mrs. Sewell, under the leadership of Miss Anthony, and assisted by her no less brilliant and beautiful friend, Mrs. Avery, conceived and carried out the wonderful details of the organization of women in the United States in 1888. The great convocation that was called in Washington, D. C, in February, 1888, not only resulted in the organization of the National Council of Women, but developed also the International Council of Women, both of which organizations continue in more or less power and usefulness to the present day. The flowering period of Mrs. Sewell's life occupied the twenty years between 1880 and 1900. After that followed a severe attack of Brights Disease, for which she fasted during a period of one year, eating but one meal a week in that time. Her robust health declined and her mind became more or less clouded, through her devotion to spiritualism and its occult manifestations. The recent publication of her book, "Neither Dead nor Sleeping," gives in detail her uncanny experiences with various mediums who purported to give messages from her husband and the pianist Rubinstein while Pere Conde, the famous French physician, prescribed for her physical life through various mediums. Her soul, hungering for the presence of her dead mate and starved for spiritual food, clung to that unhappy belief until the very last. I received a letter from her recently, in which he said that it would be impossible to close this imperfect memoire without reference to the lovely quality of her friendship for the "Mormon" women whom she knew and always defended, beginning with President Zina D. H. Young and her counselor, Mrs. Jane S. Richards, with President Bathsheba W. Smith, and continuing with our present honored president, Emmeline B. Wells. Others whom she loved faithfully were: Mrs. Emily S. Richards, Ann M. Cannon, Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall, Mrs. Zina Y. Card, Mrs. Phoebe Y, Beatie, Emma Lucy Gates, and, indeed, all whom she met and took into her loyal and tender heart. Never was any voice lifted against "Mormon" women as a whole, or as individuals, that this great women did not raise her protest in defense of the women as a whole and the individuals who might be attacked. God MRS. MAY WRIGHT SEW ALL 501 will remember her for her fidelity and her devotion to truth as she saw and understood it. How lovely was her spirit, how benign was her devotion to the cause of womanhood throughout the whole earth, and how great was her contribution to humanity!