Senator Smoot Writes for "Forum"
Why I am a Mormon
We have on our desk an article from the pen of Senator Reed Smoot, entitled "Why I am a Mormon," which appeared in the October issue of The Forum. We are permitted by the publishers to use 500 words. We are sure that our readers will be intensely interested in this article, consequently we are including excerpts to the extent permitted.
Senator Smoot writes: "In the first place, I was born one. My parents were among the early converts to the teachings of Joseph Smith, the founder of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints,?my father in Kentucky, his native state; my mother in far-off Norway. What is commonly known as 'Mormonism' had no stauncher adherents than Abraham Owen Smoot and his wife, Anna Kerstina Morrison. That I should have imbibed, from infancy, in the home that sheltered them, the spirit of the religion for which either of them would have laid down life, if necessary, will occasion no surprise to the readers of this article. I was the third-born in the household, and Salt Lake City was my


birthplace. Since ten years of age, however, I have resided in the town of Provo, fifty miles south of the Utah capitol."
Senator Smoot says of his education: "In the Brigham Young Academy were taught, along with the ordinary branches of learning, the doctrines of Christ's gospel. The Bible, the Book of Mormon, and other church publications were among the text books of the institution. Prayer and testimony were required of the students, and the atmosphere of worship pervaded the class rooms. The result was that graduates from this school went forth from its portals firm in the faith, believers in God and in the principles of salvation, equipped not only for expert office work, and skilled labor of various kinds, but also for intelligent and efficient service in the Church and mission fields. Being a graduate myself, I shared in the advantages of such a training; and this, without doubt, is one reason why I am a 'Mormon.' Incidentally I will remark that Utah, which is still overwhelmingly 'Mormon' in population, ranks among the leading States of the Union, educationally."
Finally Senator Smoot says that it is not alone because of his birth and education that he is a "Mormon." Regarding this matter we quote from The Forum article the following: "But birth and early training are not the only causes of one's conversion, if it be real and genuine. In my intercourse with the world I have had ample opportunity to come in contact with other religious systems and to compare them with my own. If 'Mormonism' is my preference over all, it is because it appeals to me as the most reasonable of all, the most soul-satisfying religion that I have encountered anywhere.
"It teaches that man is literally the child of God, fashioned in his image, endowed with divine attributes, and capable, by education and development, of becoming like unto that glorious Being, in whose image and likeness all men are created."
Father Escalante
We are constantly reminded that we are not so young as we once were. The frequent anniversaries that are occurring both in the Church and in the Nation, make this fact clear. This year we are reminded of two anniversaries?one the Sesqui-centennial of the birth of our Nation, and the other the Sesqui-centennial of Father Escalante and his little band entering the State of Utah. Father Escalante left New Mexico one hundred and fifty years ago in an attempt to make his way to Monterey, California. Entering Utah valley from Spanish Fork canyon he made a camp near the mouth of Provo river. There he found Indians who were employed in such gainful occupations as growing hemp and flax. He called the Indians from all EDITORIAL 557 the country round as far as Spanish Fork, into a conference, and taught them the gospel of Jesus Christ as he understood it. He remained near Utah Lake for two days. This was the longest time spent in any one place in Utah. Sunday, Sept. 26, 1926, the Catholic church built a temporary altar in Spanish Fork at the place where they believed Escalante and his little band entered Utah valley. There they conducted Mass and offered grateful thanks for his life and ministrations. Henry Van Dyke's Philosophy Henry Van Dyke, in an article appearing recently in The Mentor, offers a few practical suggestions for the cultivation of sympathetic tolerance?"Live by admiration rather than by disgust;" says he, "judge other people by their best, not by their worst. Cheerfully give to others the same liberty we claim for ourselves." I think we shall all agree that Mr. Van Dyke's suggestions are practical suggestions, and not only make for sympathetic tolerance but also for happiness.