A Change of Heart By Silas L. Cheney Dr. Gleason came into his library, set his medical kit upon the heavy mahogany table, and sank wearily into an easy chair before the fireplace where almost immediately he fell into a stupor of physical and mental exhaustion. Mrs. Gleason, who sat sewing, looked up at her husband anxiously. His naturally ruddy face was grey and haggard, dark circles appeared beneath his eyes, while across his forehead wrinkles had recently traced a history of acute fatigue and suffering. Laying her sewing aside she seated herself on a footstool near him and proceeded to remove his shoes, replacing them with comfortable house slippers. "Thanks, Martha, thanks," he said and without opening his eyes he reached out and stroked her head gently. It was with difficulty that Mrs. Gleason controlled her emotions sufficiently to say in a soothing voice, "My dear, you are very tired tonight. Aren't you working much too hard? Surely you ought to take a rest." Slowly his listless eyelids rolled back uncovering dark grey eyes which stared at her strangely. "I have come to the same conclusion," he replied mechanically. Then after a pause he continued, haltingly as if analyzing qualitatively each word before uttering it: "Martha, I simply must get away from here for awhile; I can't stand it any longer. I am leaving tomorrow. Have turned my patients over to Drs. Francis and Davidson. Don't think I'll be gone long, so if the maid packs my large traveling bag that will be sufficient." She wanted to know more about his plans but apparently he had told all he desired her to know, perhaps all he knew himself for he had again closed his eyes and settled back in his chair. Not wishing to disturb him further she quietly arose and went back to her sewing, mildly astonished that he should have made all arrangements for a vacation without so much as mentioning it to her. But she was glad he was going. Anything that might reasonably be expected to deflect his mind from its broodings over the tragedy of their daughter's death would certainly meet with her approval. The circumstances resulting in this sad event had their beginning nearly two years before when, shortly after America entered the World War, a small detachment of soldiers, under the command of Lieutenant Massey, had been sent to Blair to guard the Consolidated Mining and Milling Co., against certain anonymous threats. During the stay of the detachment, young Lieutenant 
 Massey had become greatly enamored' with pretty Darlene Gleason who was then nineteen. His passionate wooing of her finally won her whole-hearted affection. They were to have beer married when suddenly his detachment was called to Fort Douglas in order to join his regiment which had been ordered to Camp Funston, Kansas. Under the circumstances, it was deemed advisable to postpone the marriage until a more propitious time. Then had followed a long period of waiting. Darlene had watched and prayed for the time when the war should be over so that they could be united again. His passionate letters to her were life itself, but as time wore on they arrived less and less frequently; also they gradually cooled until they became colorless?almost meaningless. Still they continued to come thus keeping alive a hope that Darlene refused to relinquish. She consoled herself by attributing his seeming neglect to the many demands the war must be making upon him. "When the war is over things will be different," she told herself. But the signing of the Armistice failed to bring about the anticipated change. Instead there came a heartless letter saying that he had ceased to love her and so would not return. "I have," it said, "been trying to break the news to you as gently as' possible and therefore have reason to hope that what I am now writing will prove neither surprising nor shocking." It was a terrible blow to the two strongest elements in her nature, affection and pride. Under it she suffered a nervous collapse and shortly after contracted the "flu" and died. That was all Mrs. Gleason knew, and certainly it was enough, but it had fallen to Dr. Gleason's lot to suffer much more acutely, though the cause for this remained a secret with himself. For one thing he knew the "flu" was only a secondary cause of his daughter's death; for another, he had recently learned the reason for Lieutenant Massey's estrangement; he was a married man, had been for at least five years judging from the fact that he had a little girl four years old. Dr. Gleason kept all this to himself, allowing its bitterness to canker his soul until his naturally affectionate nature became dominated by an uncontrollable spirit of hatred and revenge. He would ?he must make that. Dirty skunk suffer. Such reflections, fermenting in his brain, had finally driven him in desperation to take a leave of absence, referred to as a vacation in the presence of others, but regarded by himself as something quite different. He had a definite mission to perform. 'The fact that he was a little vague as to just how to accomplish it made no difference since he was determined to find a way. It was almost dark when Dr. Gleason alighted from the train at Junction City. In one hand was his traveling bag, in the other his medical kit. The former was carried from necessity and the latter from habit. He had not meant to bring his kit, but some- A CHANGE OF HEART 565 how had picked it up unaware, and had not realized what he had done until well on his way. He looked about him in the drenching mist of drizzling rain, feeling that he was in perfect harmony with the elements. "So this is the place that offers a domicile to a?a skunk! Well, it surely looks the part!" he muttered sardonically. There was no visible means of conveyance about, so after inquiring of the station agent the way to the nearest hotel, he started out to find it on foot. The streets were almost deserted. Only occasionally did he meet anyone. Most of those whom he did meet wore masks of gauze tied snugly about mouth and nose. He understood the meaning of this, the "flu" was raging here as elsewhere. He found the hotel and after registering went immediately to his room. There everything was quite pleasant and comfortable but it held no charms for him. It was too strange and quiet and altogether lacking in home atmosphere. There was no one to talk to, no familiar books or magazines to read, nothing to do but sit and think, and that was the very thing he did not care to do. It super-induced dark broodings and bitter melancholy. Much to his relief his reflections were interrupted a short time later by a knock at the door. It was probably only a maid or a bellhop, he reasoned, but even so it would be someone and therefore infinitely better than being left entirely alone. He stepped to the door and opened it, then stood looking his surprise into the keenly scrutinizing eyes of a well-dressed, middle-aged stranger. "I presume this is Dr. Gleason," said the visitor extending his hand. "I am Dr. Kline." "Glad to meet you," replied Dr. Gleason shaking hands cordially. 'Please come in and sit down.". "Thank you, but I regret to say my time is not my own. Kept busy night and day fighting this frightful epidemic of 'flu.' We haven't half enough doctors to take care of the cases demanding medical aid and have been sending out appeals for help. Tonight when I learned that a doctor had registered at the hotel here, I rushed over hoping to find someone who had come to our assistance." Dr. Gleason was a little taken back. "Why?er?I?I haven't exactly come here to help, but of course my profession swears me into service if the need is urgent." "Thanks, Doctor. I am confident you will never find a more urgent need. We have morexcalls than we can possibly attend to. I then advise my office to turn some of the cases over-to you?" "Why, certainly," replied Dr. Gleason, for the moment losing sight of his suffering and the sworn purpose for his being there. "Thanks again," said Dr. Kline heartily as he shook Dr. Glea- 
 son's hand. "Here's my card. Anything that you may be needing you can get at my office. Now I must be going. Good-night." Half-an-hour later the phone rang sharply. It was a woman inquiring in a hysterical voice, "Is this Dr-?Dr. Gleason?" "Yes," replied Dr. Gleason encouragingly. "This is Mrs. Massey, our little girl is dying. Won't you please come quick and help us?" ""Who?who did you say you were?" the Doctor asked excitedly. "Mrs. Massey," came the wailing voice, "My husband is Lieutenant Louis Massey and our baby is?" "Oh," interrupted Dr. Gleason, a steely expression coming into his eyes and voice, "I am afraid you will have to find some other doctor to take your case." "But we can't, we can't and our baby is dying?Oh, please?" Dr. Gleason slammed the receiver on the hook and sank down into a chair. The phone rang desperately for a few seconds but as he did not answer, it soon ceased. For a time he sat as one dazed, but gradually came to himself and commenced sizing up the situation in a cool analytical manner. ?Could things have planned out better?" he asked himself. "It's a daughter for a daughter. Surely I couldn't ask for more." "Darlene, my darling,' he murmured as, with closed eyes, he lay back in his chair to enjoy the relief he felt sure would now be his. Instantly the image of his idolized daughter, as she lay moaning in delirium on her death bed, came to him. "Oh?Oh?" The voice gradually changed to one of pleading, saying things his daughter had never said: "O?please?please, Doctor, she's dying, our baby is dying?" Dr. Gleason sprang to his feet staring wildly. He must not let it affect him that way, he told himself as he sat down again. He had come for the purpose of punishing a sneak and now here was his chance. But even then he could hear again the wailing voice: "Oh, please, Doctor, she's dying?" He was foolish to let it disturb him in such a manner. Where was his love for his cruelly wronged child, or his hate for this thing which called itself a man? He had the right to punish him, he had come a long way to punish him, and now?now that the power and opportunity was suddenly and unexpectedly his, why should he feel so weak and vacillating? But he would not weaken he told himself as he sprang from his chair and went stamping about the room, gesticulating with clenched hands. "I must?I will! Bring him to judgment," he hissed between his teeth. "Yes, judgment?judgment?judgment is mine, saith the Lord." He looked wildly about the room searching for the one who had dared to utter such words. Then coming to himself with a jerk he realized that he had been listening to his own mutterings. He would A CHANGE OF HEART; 567 have to get away from here or he would go mad. When would the next train be leaving for the West? Drawing a time table from his pocket he tried to read the schedule but could not see it, could not seem to see anything. He was senseless to everything but that pleading voice, '""Oh?please?Doctor, she's dying, our baby is dying?" Cold beads of perspiration sprang out upon his marble-like forehead. He must go to them, he couldn't stand it any longer. But what if he were too late; what if the child had died already? Well?in that case he would have paid his debt. And yet?would he? So far as the father was concerned?yes, but how about the grief-stricken mother? Suddenly the realization came to him that it was the mother of the child he would be punishing most severely. A mother who, no doubt, was as innocent of offense as his own sweet girl had been. "God help me, why didn't I think of that sooner," he moaned. Snatching up the phone directory he hastily searched its pages for Lieutenant Massey's address. Having found it he seized his hat, coat and medical kit, and rushed downstairs. He learned at the clerk's desk that the address' he was looking for was only about three blocks distant. How he ever found his way, disturbed as he was by a boiling turmoil within, and a raging storm and darkness without, he never knew; but finally after knocking at a door he was aware that it was opened by a wide-eyed, terror-stricken man whom he recognized as Lieutenant Massey. A hard look came into Dr. Gleason's eyes, and he passed him without a word. At the side of a bed in another room a fair-haired woman knelt, weeping audibly. Dr. Gleason was touched with profound pity at sight of such uncontrollable sorrow. It came so near being a reflection of his own. He paused for a moment to gain control of himself before announcing in a low reassuring voice that he was Dr. Gleason and had come to help her. Disregarding her profuse expressions of gratitude, he immediately bent over the bed where the little girl lay. One glance told him the crisis was at hand and that he would have to work fast or witness the hand of death. He wiped the cold perspiration from the forehead of the child which had so recently been hot and parched with fever, and felt the feeble, irregular pulse in the tiny wrist. A chill passed over him as he encountered the large, frightened, questioning eyes of the mother.- Could he tell her the truth? No! That would be cruel. She needed all the strength that hope would give her. "Now, now, Mrs. Massey," he said soothingly, "don't you worry any more. Everything is going to be all right. I shall stay right here until your baby is better." He took off his coat, rolled up his sleeves, opened his kit and set to work. All night long he bent over the sick child applying every ounce of ski] and science at his command while with trained 
 eyes he watched the alternating chances for life and death in the struggle going on before him. Inwardly he was full of anxiety and dread, outwardly he was calm and reassuring. Occasionally he would get glimpses of Lieutenant Massey sitting crumpled up in a corner, and knew something of the suffering he must be enduring although not a word passed between them. Toward morning he saw a distinct change for the better, and finally as the child passed into a normal sleep he breathed a sigh of relief. "Thank God," he exclaimed fervently under his breath. "She will be all right now," he said as he arose and put on his coat. "Just give the medicine as I have directed and she will soon be her dear little self again." Mrs. Massey seized his hand with both her own as she looked up at him almost worshipfully and endeavored to sob out her gratitude. "That's all right, Mrs. Massey," he said cheerfully. "If you need help again be sure and call me at the hotel. Good-morning." Out in the clear, cold atmosphere of early dawn, such a feeling of peace and contentment came to him as had not been his for months. He had won the greatest battle of his life; a battle which had transformed him from a sword into a pruning hook. Clearly there came to his mind the saying of the Master: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, * * * ye have done it unto me." Someone came up behind him. Looking around he beheld. Lieutenant Massey; hair disheveled, face haggard, eyes that were pleading?begging for mercy. Dr. Gleason understood what he wanted. "Mrs. Massey is an angel. For her sake and the baby's, I shall not say or do anything," he said in a colorless voice. "But one thing I want you to know, and that is that you killed my daughter, but I have saved yours!" Remember it takes one hundred years to grow an oak?and for a squash, six months is sufficient?Eliot. To create the reflective mood, in contrast with the executive and emotional mood, is a special duty of our times??Charles F. Thwing. So Child hygiene is at present the most important motif in the physician's work, and will continue to be in the future?Borden S. Verder, Washington University Medical. School, St. Louis.  SSS Slave Cornelia Dramatized by Annie Clark Kimball Stage Directions by Irma Felt Bitner CHARACTERS: Cornelia, A Roman Mother. Wealthy Lady of Campania. Tiberius, about 8 or 10 year old. Caius, about 5 or 6 years old, Sons of Cornelia. Slave. Costumes: Cornelia wears a simple Roman gown of pale tint with three bands of narrow ribbon around her head. Wealthy Lady wears Roman gown of a vivid color, in harmonious contrast to Cornelia's, elaborately bedecked with jewels, with jeweled head dress. She also wears an elaborate wrap. 
 Tiberius and Caius wear colored slips or tunics, a little above knees; with narrow Roman band around head tied at the back. Slave wears straight brown slip to knees, with brown tights;. Her face, hands and arms are browned. PROPERTIES: For Cornelia, scroll and handkerchief. For Wealthy Lady, string of pearls, green jewels for emeralds, and large red jewel on pendant for ruby; other jewels. Furniture: A double seat for Cornelia and a single seat for the Wealthy Lady; also a pedestal or small table. (If Roman furniture cannot be obtained, use davenette and chair, covered with throws of some neutral color, such as brown or drab. For slave, polished metal hand mirror.) STAGE SETTING: Outdoor Scene: Decorate with palms or potted plants. Place double seat at left front and single seat at right front, with tall between or pedestal just back. Soft music before curtain, which continues through first few speeches. Music: First part of Chaminade's Serenade. Curtain Rises Slowly CoRNELIA on double seat intently studying scroll. SLAVE appears at right and stands waiting. CorNELIA looks up and motions slave to enter. ( Enter.) - SLAVE (bowing low): A noble visitor from Campania. Weattuy Lavy (4t right. Slave stands near back of stage with arms folded and head bowed.) CorNELIA (Stands, raising arm in Roman greeting): Haih to thee! Weactuy Lapy (Also raising arm): Hail! CornELia (Placing scroll on table or pedestal): Whom seek ye, lady? WeattHy Lapy: I seek Cornelia, wife of Sampronius Gracchus, daughter of Scipio Africanus, and twelve times a mother. CorneELia (Bowing slightly): Iam she. Music Stops Weattuy Lapy (Raising arm higher this time): All hail again, Cornelia! For thy name is known throughout all Rome (Cornelia Pointing to herself questioningly): My name? And what is said of me? WEALTHY Lapy: That thou art an example to all mothers. CORNELIA (Sincerely and prayerfully): Such words are CORNELIA 571 words of praise indeed. May the Gods help me to be worthy of them! Wealthy Lapy: May I ask what thou dost read from yonder scroll? Cornelia (Gets scroll and motions Wealthy Lady to seat. They examine scroll together): This is the record of our fathers. Wealthy Lavy: Is it not tiresome and difficult to study? Cornelia: Not for me, Lady, because, thou seest, my sons learn all these things most readily from my lips and I love to teach them.; Weattuy Lapy: Do they also love tales of adventure and travel? CornELIA: Indeed they do, and of wars and soldiery. Weattuy Lapy: Thou mayest tell them of this blood-red ruby that I wear. (Displays it.) It came from Africa. A wounded Roman soldier left upon the field to die! (Faces audience.) The blazing Summer sun scorched and burnt his closing eyes and drank the moisture from his lips. He felt the life departing in his agony?But no!?an aged man?black?a very Moor?bent over him and gave him drink, then bore him from the field of blood unto his own abode?a shelter so rude it might have been built by the wandering birds; there the aged man fed him. And bathed his wounds and nursed him back to health and strength. The Moor had no possessions save this one red brilliant stone. And when he thought the soldier sleeping soundly he would fondle and caress it as if it were some living thing; but when the soldier stirred or spoke, he hid it hastily within the folds above his heart. Before the moon had twice been round, the Roman arose and walked in life again; but he was loath to go his way, yet lingering many days as if loving his preserver too much to depart. (With intense animation)?Then, one day, returning from the hunt, he found the aged Moor asleep upon his scanty couch. Quick as the arrow of Diana, he thrust his spear into the old man's heart. When he withdrew it, the red blood flowed in a crimson stream, bathing the ruby in its living warmth. (Standing and showing gem to Cornelia)?Doth it not look like twenty living drops in one?
CORNELIA: (Shrinking away with a look of horror) Or a coal of virile fire! Doth it not burn thy soul to wear it?
WEALTHY LADY: (laughing) It is beautiful and interesting. And this emerald is from Ethiopia, and those pearls are from Cathay.
CORNELIA: Are not those metal chains all cold about thy neck?
WEALTHY LADY: I do not notice them so. (She displays and admires her jewels.) I love my jewels.