Lessons for January
INTRODUCTION TO LESSON WORK OF 1927
The first lessons of the ensuing year are published in the current issue of the Magazine. They are virtually a continuation of last year's lessons. In continuing the course we feel that we are providing what should prove to be acceptable material for the present. The Theology lessons will continue Bible themes, directing into new channels of thought, as added information is presented. The lessons on American poetry will go on, because we believe, with Professor Cest, professor of American literature in the University of Paris, that America is perhaps giving us the best poetry that is being written today. Child Hygiene is one of the newest and most fascinating studies that is occupying human thought at the present time. It is of paramount importance in the proper rearing of children, and for this reason it should be a topic of surpassing interest to all the mothers of our organization.
LESSON I
Theology and Testimony
(First Week in January)
PAUL
A. Paul Before His Conversion. Paul was born of Hebrew parents in the Roman city of Tarsus on the coast of the Mediterranean Sea. He was of the Tribe of Benjamin. He was given the name of Saul after one of the Kings of Israel which in Greek signifies waddling. His Roman name was Paul, meaning little. His birth in a Roman city made him a freeborn Roman. His vocation was that of a tent-maker. He went from Tarsus to Jerusalem and studied under the noted theologian, Gamaliel. He was an ardent student and zealous religionist of the sect known as the Pharisees who believed in the resurrection of the body and were very strict. He says of himself: "I am verily a man which am a Jew, born in Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, yet brought up in this city at the feet of Gamaliel, and taught according to the perfect manner of the law of the fathers, and was zealous toward God, as ye all are this day."?Acts 22:3.


It is recorded of him: "And because he was of the same craft, he abode with them, and wrought: for by their occupation they were tentmakers." Through the errors of his home traditions and the narrowness of his school life, his sincerity and zeal was so misdirected that he became conscientiously and relentlessly a persecutor of the followers of Jesus. Even if he heard Jesus preach the doctrine of doing as you would be done by, Saul could not see the truth through the veil of pharisaical prejudice nor could he hear it because of the ear-pads of sect intolerance. The record of his conduct, guided by a conscience based upon untruth and bias, was made by the historian. It is from Paul's statement of the facts to the Lord in vision and his testimony before the court where he was on trial. He tells the tribunal that in zeal towards God, he persecuted the Saints unto death and sent men and women bound to prison because of their belief. He goes further and testifies to the court concerning his interview with the resurrected Savior, saying: "And it came to pass, that, when I was come again to Jerusalem, even while I prayed in the temple, I was in a trance; "And saw him saying unto me, Make haste, and get thee quickly out of Jerusalem: for they will not receive thy testimony concerning me. "And I said, Lord, they know that I imprisoned and beat in every synagogue them that believed on thee: "And when the blood of thy martyr Stephen was shed, I also was standing by, and consenting unto his death, and kept the raiment of them that slew him."?Acts 22:17-20. Paul's career before conversion is an object lesson illustrative of the theological truths that sincerity is not a sufficient guarantee of righteousness; that the human conscience is largely the result of tradition, education, and interest.
B. The Conversion. This was a pivot event in the life of a great character. Paul never tired of testifying to its miraculous actuality. It was not too good for an assembled mob. From the stairway of a castle, he said: "Men, brethren, and fathers, hear ye my defence, which I make now unto you."?Acts 22:1. "And it came to pass, that, as I made my journey, and was come nigh unto Damascus about noon, suddenly there shone from heaven a great light round about me. "And I fell unto the ground, and heard a voice saying unto me, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? "And I answered, Who art thou, Lord? And he said unto me, I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom thou persecutest. "And they that were with me saw indeed the light, and were afraid; but they heard not the voice of him that spake to me.
LESSONS FOR JANUARY 583
"And I said, What shall I do, Lord? And the Lord said unto me, Arise, and go into Damascus; and there it shall be told thee of all things which are appointed for thee to do."?Acts 22:6-10. It was good enough for a King's Court: "At midday, O king, I saw in the way a light from heaven, above the brightness of the sun, shining round about me and them which journeyed with me "And when we were all fallen to the earth, I heard a voice speaking unto me, and saying in the Hebrew tongue, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks. "And I said Who art thou, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest."?Acts 26:13-15. It is little wonder that the story of his conversion was so dear to Paul for it was the event of a change of front of his sincere soul; a change from error to truth; from bigotry to meekness; from intolerance to forbearance. The crowning part of the miracle was reached when Saul, the brother to the self-satisfied sinner, cried out: "What shall I do Lord?" Behind this exclamation was a complete surrender, something more than a joyous acquiescence. Saul had said in his own way, "Thy will be done," and no Christian conversion is complete without a soul-state that is an urge to the expression, "Lord, what wouldst thou have me do?"
C. Paul's Career After Conversion. He received his sight and was baptized and began preaching Christ in Damascus. "And Ananias went his way, and entered into the house; and putting his hands on him, said, Brother Saul, the Lord, even Jesus that appeared unto thee in the way as thou camest hath sent me, that thou mightest receive thy sight, and be filled with the Holy Ghost. "And immediately there fell from his eyes as it had been scales: and he received sight forthwith, and arose, and was baptized."?Acts 9:17-18. "But Saul increased the more in strength, and confounded the Jews which dwelt at Damascus, proving that this is very Christ. "And after that many days were fulfilled, the Jews took counsel to kill him."?Acts 9:22-23. He communed with the Savior in the temple: "And it came to pass, that, when I was come again to Jerusalem, even while I prayed in the temple, I was in a trance; "And saw him saying unto me, Make haste, and get thee quickly out of Jerusalem: for they will not receive thy testimony concerning me. "And I said, Lord, they know that I imprisoned and beat in every synagogue them that believed on thee: "And when the blood of thy martyr Stephen was shed, I also was standing by, and consenting unto his death, and kept the raiment of them that slew him. "And he said unto me, Depart: for I will send thee far hence unto the Gentiles."?Acts 22:17-21. He was an object of fear among the Saints and of hate among the disbelieving Jews:


"And after that many days were fulfilled, the Jews took counsel to kill him."?Acts 9:23. "And when Saul was come to Jerusalem, he assayed to join himself to the disciples: but they were all afraid of him, and believed not that he was a disciple."?Acts 9:26. He was ordained an apostle: "Whereunto I am ordained a preacher, and an apostle, (I speak the truth in Christ, and lie not;) a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and verity."?I Timothy 2:7. When we follow him through his four great missionary journeys, we are led to think of him as the peerless preacher of his age. A glimpse of the time spent and the territory covered may be obtained by what he wrote to the Galatians: "Neither went I up to Jerusalem to them which were apostles before me; but I went into Arabia, and returned again unto Damascus. "Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter, and abode with him fifteen days. "But other of the apostles saw I none, save James, the Lord's brother." "Afterwards I came into the regions of Syria and Cilicia; "And was unknown by face unto the churches of Judea which were in Christ: "But they had heard only, That he which persecuted us in times past, now preacheth the faith which once he destroyed."?Galatians 1:17-19, 21-23. His missionary correspondence forms a very important part of our New Testament scripture. It consists of letters to the various churches and to individual missionaries. Some of these important letters were written while he was a prisoner at Rome. That he was great as an organizer is evident, for he established and fostered Christian churches at Rome, Corinth, Galatia, Ephesus, Philippi, Colossia, Thessalonia. As a theologian, Paul is quoted more extensively than any other writer of his dispensation. In our thirteenth Article of Faith a most appreciative tribute is paid to this apostle of the meridian of time. From some of his minor utterances, attempts have been made to substantiate celibacy as a church doctrine, but the apex of his utterances on marriage is reached when he says, "Nevertheless, man is not without the woman in the Lord, nor the woman without the man." Thus proclaiming marriage as a pre-requisite for exaltation in the Kingdom of God. His eloquence may be judged by the expression he brought forth from King Agrippa, "Paul, Paul, thou almost persuadest me to be a Christian," and his written discourse on charity marks him as a man of letters of the first rank. His invitation to speak before the joint session of the two great schools of philosophy at Athens is an acknowledgment of his eminence as a scholar.
LESSONS FOR JANUARY 585
His character was one of extraordinary strength and remarkable sweetness. How he was hated by the vanquished opponents of Christianity is shown in the following: "And when it was day, certain of the Jews banded together, and bound themselves under a curse, saying that they would neither eat nor drink till they had killed Paul."?Acts 23:12. How he was loved and trusted by his brethren, the apostles, is shown in the words of Peter: "And account that the longsuffering of our Lord is salvation; even as our beloved brother Paul also according to the wisdom given unto him hath written unto you."?II Peter 3:15. No one can doubt his satisfaction with earth life and his hope and faith concerning the life to come in the light of his last letter to his adopted son Timothy, wherein he says: "For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. "I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith: "Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day: and not to me only, but unto all them also that love his appearing."?II Timothy 4:6-8. An inspired description of Paul by the Prophet Joseph Smith tells us: "He is about five feet high; very dark hair; dark complexion; dark skin; large Roman nose; sharp face; small black eyes, penetrating as eternity; round shoulders; a whining voice, except when elevated, and then it almost resembled the roaring of a lion. He was a good orator, active and diligent, always employing himself in doing good to his fellow men."?Compendium, p. 287.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Show that sincerity is not a sufficient guarantee for righteousness.
2. How does the life of Paul indicate that the conscience, in a great measure, depends on tradition, education, and interest?
3. Where did the conversion of Paul reach its climax?
4. Quote a memory gem from Paul's written discourse on charity.
5. Name Paul's missionary letters preserved and published in the New Testament. How many of these letters were written to branches of the Church, and how many to individual missionaries?
6. Quote from Paul's last letter to Timothy, showing his satisfaction with his mission on earth and his hope and assurance concerning the life to come.
7. How are the teachings of Paul related to our Articles of Faith?


LESSON II
Work and Business
(Second Week in January)
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JANUARY
CIVIC PRIDE
Street and Side-Walk Cleaning in Winter
With a view of improving the appearance and conditions of homes, yards and communities, the subject of "Civic Pride" will be discussed in the Teachers' Department, 1927. In addition to the discussion of the topic, it is suggested that there be each month definite follow-up work in the nature of a campaign. The Relief Society might take the initiative in interesting City Officials, Commercial Clubs, Merchants, Boy Scouts, BeeHive Girls, Seagull Girls and others in the interest of Civic Improvement. I. Removal of snow and ice as health precaution. (a) Wet feet for children and adults often result in illness. Result in serious accidents, many of which are permanent or fatal.. MILNER DAM Ethel Allen Kilgore O Cliff, thou rais'st thy lofty height Above the water's brink, And watchest creatures wild at night When they come down to drink. And hidest in thy craggy walls, The timid rock-folk, shy, And nest the birds, whose cheery calls Enhance each passer-by. (b) Slippery steps, porches, yard-walks and sidewalks often LESSONS FOR JANUARY 587 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in January) RICHARD BURTON In Richard Burton's collection of poems we find a poem of six lines called "The Human Touch." This poem is a very great favorite with those who read Richard Burton; yet it seems to us that it is more than a very appealing poem, it is an indication of the road Mr. Burton travels. He talks about the things that people are ordinarily led to think about. He uses the facts that are part of the background of many people, adding that touch of romance which is part of the poetic gift. Richard Eugene Burton was born in Hartford, Connecticut, March 14, 1861. To many people he is known first and foremost as a professor of English, for he has been on the faculty of various colleges and universities since 1888. He has served the University of Minnesota as head of the department of English since 1906. During the 38 years of his service in American colleges, literally thousands of students have come under his tuition. For many years he has been one of the most popular teachers of English in the United States, as well as one of the best critics of English literature. During the Summer months he has been sought by universities far and wide for special lectures. Hundreds of students in the University of Chicago and hundreds more at the Chatauqua assemblies in New York have listened to his inspiring lectures on poets. And poetry.. His first book Dumb in June, was published in 1895; Lyrics of Brotherhood, in 1899; Messages and Melody, in 1903; From the Book of Life, in 1909; and Poems of Earth's Meaning, in 1917. In his Lyrics of Brotherhood he reflects the call of the dumb and defeated multitudes, to employ the language of Mr. Untermeyer.. Richard Burton has written a group of very pretty love songs. We include here "The Human Touch." THE Human Touch High thoughts and noble in all lands Help me; my soul is fed by such. But ah, the touch of lips and hands,? The human touch! Warm, vital, close, life's symbols dear,? These need I most, and now, and here. In line with such a poem as "The Human Touch" is "Old Songs," "Old Songs" carries its own message. It needs no explanation. It revives memories of the past.: 
 OLp Soncs There is many a simple song one hears, To an outworn tune, that starts the tears; Not for itselfi?for the buried years. Perchance 'twas heard in the days of youth, When breath was buoyant and words were truth; When joys were peddled at Life's gay booth. Or maybe it sounded along a lane Where She walked with you?and now again You catch Love's cadence, Love's old sweet pain. Or else it stole through a room where lay A dear one dying, and seemed to say: "Love and death, they shall pass away." It ris?s out of the Long Ago, And that is the reason it shakes you so With pain and passion and buried woe. There is many a simple song that brings From deeps of living, on viewless wings, The tender magic of bygone things. Because of the intense interest that the world has shown in Polar exploration during the past year, and because of the achievement of the American aviator, Byrd; and also the achievements of Amundsen, who has made a trip from Europe to America which included a flight across the North Pole, we are presenting Mr. Burton's poem "The Polar Quest:" THE Polar Quest Unconquerably, men venture on the quest And seek an ocean amplitude unsailed, Cold, virgin, awful. Scorning ease and rest, And heedless of the heroes who have failed, They face the ice floes with a dauntless zest. The polar quest! Life's offer to the strong! To pass beyond the pale, to do and dare, Leaving a name that stirs us like a song, And making captive some strange Otherwhere, Though grim the conquest, and, the labor long. Forever courage kindles, faith moves forth To find the mystic floodway of the North. This is a period of time when people are intensely interested in the subject of heredity. Each individual has many strains in his nature coming from ancestors far behind him. "The Claim of Kindred" is a poem devoted to this theme:. THE CLAIM OF KINDRED I am not one, but many: murmuring through My blood I seem to hear a blended, cry, Ancestral-strong, bidding me up and do A million deeds before I come to die. LESSONS FOR JANUARY 589 Some of the voices call like organ tones Upon my soul for service that is meet; Others unman me with melodious moans Or evil invitations perilous-sweet. "Autumn Corn" will bring familiar pictures to mind. It is one of a rather large group of nature poems that Mr. Burton has given us. Because of its reference to Indians, we thought it might make particular appeal to readers of the West. AUTUMN Corn The withered autumn shocks of corn Are Indian braves, who stand a-row With wind-blown hair and look forlorn, And brood upon the long ago. Sere is their dress, and sere their mind, With tribe and totem far behind. Recently news has come to us that Utah stands first among the States of the Union in the success achieved in reducing mortality among women as the result of maternity cases. A poem entitled "The Child and the Rose" is one of the cries coming from the depths of the human heart prompted by the knowledge that many wonien have given their lives that children might be born. The saying ls very common that every time a mother gives birth to a child she approaches the "valley of the shadow," but greater knowledge resulting in better care during the prenatal period and at the birth of the child is reducing fatalities materially. Let us hope that we are approaching the time when the death of a mother will have no connection whatever with the birth of a child: THE CHILD AND THE Rose Said the child to the rose: "I would that I Might rest in a pretty garden close, To feel the wind as it brushes by, To play with every flower that grows; It must be sweet in the summertide To watch the buds as they open wide," Said the child to the rose. Said the rose to the child: "And I would be, Like you, a creature sweet and mild, Safe housed from weathers winterly, And warmed with love all undefiled; *Tis cold for sleep when the night is near, And the time till morning goes full drear." Said the rose to the child. They had their will: for the rose one day Was plucked and worn in a ballroom gay. Where the air was stifling hot,?and so It shrunk and died in the fierce, brief glow. 
 The child, a woman pinched and white, In after years, on a winter's night, Lay in the garden, took her rest, Dead, with a baby at her breast. We are concluding this lesson with Burton's poem entitled "The Modern Saint." It contrasts the religious ideals of the past with those of the present, and is a piece of Christian ideality which all Christians should seek to realize: THe Mopern SAINT No monkish garb he wears, no beads he tells, Nor is immured in walls remote from strife. But from his heart deep mercy ever wells: He looks humanely forth on human life. In place of missals or of altar dreams, He cons the passioned book of deeds and days; Striving to cast the comforting sweet beams: Of charity on dark and noisome ways. Not hedged about by sacerdotal rule, He walks a fellow of the scarred and weak. Liberal and wise his gifts; he goes to school To Justice; and he turns the other cheek. He looks not holy; simple is his belief; His creed for mystic visions do not scan; His face shows lines cut there by others' grief And in his'eyes is love of brother-man. Not self, nor self-salvation, is his care; He yearns to make the world a sunnier clime To live in; and his mission everywhere Is strangely like to Christ's in olden time. No medieval mystery, no crowned, Dim figure, halo-ringed, uncanny bright. A modern saint: a man who treads earth's ground And ministers to me with all his might. You will discover that Burton's poems are written in the main to convey a message, and are not primarily of worth because they present to our senses that which is beautiful. Of course, there is much that is beautiful in these poems, for it is the author's purpose to present his ideas and feelings in such form as shall be worthy a poet. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Mention as many old songs as you can think of that "start the tears. Have some old songs sung at this session. 2. Discuss the subject of heredity in connection with Mr. Burton's treatment of it. 3. Prove that "heedless of the heroes who have failed" explorers have pressed on to the North Pole. 4. Do you think the comparison between the Indian and the corn is apt, if so, why? What portrait is given us in "The Modern Saint?" 6. Select the concrete particulars that go to make up this portrait. LESSONS FOR JANUARY LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in January) EMOTIONAL PROBLEMS OF CHILDHOOD?INTRODUCTION The study of the emotional life of individuals and the part that the emotions play in conduct is one of the main concerns of modern psychologists. The realm of the emotions is still practically unexplored, and many of the most enlightening researches of today are those which attempt to analyze and interpret the emotional experiences and their effect on personality. Our discussions to date have dealt with the physical and mental aspects of personality. It has been noted that the degree of health and the degree of mental capacity are important factors in determining an individual's success and happiness or his failure and unhappiness. From previous studies, it would appear that a young boy or girl in good health, completing the eighth grade at the average age and receiving good marks, has every opportunity to continue his high school education and later become economically and socially useful. While good health and a normal intelligence are valuable assets to an individual, there are many persons who fail?educationally, - economically, and socially?who have good health and normal intelligence. There are persons who cannot hold a job, shiftless tramps who wander from town to town, girls and boys in corrective institutions, men and women in prisons, and men, women and children in mental hospitals who are physically and intellectually normal. Those physically and intellectually handicapped contribute their share to the above mentioned "social failures" but physical disabilities and feeble-mindedness do not offer the explanation for the failure and maladjustment of most of the dependent, delinquent and mentally unstable persons. Part of the explanation of such maladjustments is to be found in the social environment of the individual. Deadening poverty, the influence of demoralizing associates, broken homes, etc., often are responsible for dependency and delinquency. The effect of these social factors on personality development will be the subject of later discussions. Other explanations of failure and instability are to be found in unwholesome emotional reactions. This and the following three lessons will deal Sumarily with the emotional problems of adjustment. It is difficult to give an exact definition of emotion, or to enumerate or classify the emotions, as the subject has met with 
 some disagreement among authorities. Emotion is sometimes defined as a "stirred up state of mind." It is more exact, however, to consider emotion as a stirred up state of the body, of which the mind is a part. Grief, for instance, is an unhappy state of mind, but, grief, too, interferes with digestion and other bodily processes. Anger, joy, disgust are each peculiar mental states, but each of these emotions affects the physical state as well as the mental; anger is accompanied with rapid pulse and trembling, joy stimulates the glands, and disgust frequently causes nausea. Physical states, on the other hand, are accompanied by certain emotions. Stimulated nerves may bring unwarranted good spirits; fatigue may be accompanied by irritability; pain or infection may - result in extreme melancholy. Emotions are affected by mental and physical conditions. Likewise mental and physical conditions are affected by the emotions. The interplay is so close that it is often difficult to determine which is cause and which effect. While various psychologists' classification of the emotions do not entirely agree, it is not important in our discussion to enter into their disagreement. Grief, rage, fear and-love are recognized as fundamental emotions, and some lists include mirth,. Disgust, curiosity, pity, hate, shame and tenderness. "Emotions are as numerous as are the shades of feeling," our author states. Emotional life is changing and dynamic, and eludes exact definition. While the emotions listed above are quite easily recognized, it is more difficult to determine their origins. Emotions are associated with our instincts, and are sometimes described as the feeling phase of instincts. Instincts, too, defy exact definition or description. They are recognized as man's heritage from his ancestors and the list includes such spontaneous attitudes or responses as curiosity, self-assertion, reproduction, feeding, parental instinct, gregariousness, flight, pugnacity, etc. These and other instincts are usually placed in one of three categories?the ego or self instinct, the sex or love instinct, and the herd or social instinct. The motive behind our conduct is a desire to satisfy one of these three instincts. A person's first instinct is to maintain itself, by securing food, shelter, clothing and comforts. The motive which directs his effort is the ego, or self instinct. A second desire of the race is to find expression in tenderness and love, which is exemplified in the strong feeling that an individual has for his home and family. A third desire is to gain the approval and approbation of our associates?in the family, in school, in the neighborhood, and in the community. These three instinctive desires or tendencies are closely related to the emotions. If satisfaction is gained in any one desire, pleasurable emotions accompany the effort and result. If, on the other hand, these instinctive tendencies do not find expression or LESSONS FOR JANUARY 593 satisfaction the individual feels thwarted, and will seek some means of overcoming his feeling of frustration. It is obvious that these instincts often oppose one 'another. A young woman in love with a man of whom her parents and friends do not approve, finds her emotions all upset. Her love and herd instincts are at conflict with each other, and her emotional life will be temporarily or permanently disturbed by her conflicting emotions. A young person ambitious to go away to school, but held at home by family responsibilities which he cannot shirk because of his affection for his family and his desire to be thought well of by them and his friends, may also find his emotions at war among themselves. While a person may attempt to meet frustration of any of these desires in a calm, rational manner, he may not always succeed. The emotiorts and instincts are not subject to conscious control, but are the result of subconscious motivation. While a person may attempt to set aside an ambition, or overcome the grief of the loss of a loved one, or consider the good will of his community unimportant, he may fail in his resolution. His deliberate attempt to crowd out or "repress" an emotion, may lead to other difficulties. We subconscious will attempt to gain other satisfaction to repay "compensate" for the frustration. Such compensatory conduct - be wholesome?it may also be the basis of undesirable behavior. It must not be understood that emotions cannot be modified. Because of their varying shades and degrees, and because of infinite possibilities of expression, emotional patterns may be changed and modified. The period of childhood is considered the most fruitful period to modify unwholesome attitudes and behavior patterns. The medical expert, known as a psychiatrist, by studying conduct analyses and interprets the emotional basis of unwholesome attitudes and abnormal behavior. Some of the children whose problems were primarily of an emotional nature will be discussed in subsequent lessons. Reference: Challenge of Childhood?Introduction, Emotional Problems (pages 151-162). QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What are the four aspects of personality? 2. Why might a person with good health and normal intelligence be a social failure? What is an emotion? Name some common emotions. What are the three main classifications of instincts? 'What effect does frustration of instincts have on the emotions? Explain how instincts may cause emotional conflict. Why can we not control emotions by conscious effort? What is a psychiatrist?