U. W. P. C.

	THE Utah Woman’s Press Club held its
annual meeting for the election of officers
on Friday evening, November 15th. at the
office of the president, E. R. Shipp M. D.
Mrs. Shipp had previously sent out written
invitations to each member of the society
especially requesting her presence, and
after the formal business meeting, the affair
took the form of a sociable.
	The president was in the chair and meet-
ing opened with prayer by Mrs. E. J.
Stevenson. Roll call was answered by
sentiments, original or selected: and when
the name of the treasurer C. C. R. Wells
was called, she responded by presenting to
the president in behalf of the society, and
as a token of love and esteem, a book of
sentiments from various authors. Presi-
dent Shipp did not expect to give another
sentiment so soon but felt to express her
appreciation and thanks for the token which
was a great surprise.
	After roll call the minutes of the previous
meeting were read and approved. Then
the minutes of the last annual meeting
were read.
	A motion was made by Honorary Presi-
dent E. B. Wells that the officers for the
ensuing year be elected by ballot. Motion
carried.
	The result was as follows:—E. B. Wells,
president; Nellie C. Taylor, first vice-presi-
dent; H. A. Badger, second vice-president;
E. R. Shipp, recording secretary; Edith
Rossiter, assistant recording secretary;
Ella W. Hyde, corresponding secretary;
Phoebe C. Young, treasurer. Program
Committee for three months, Ruth M. Fox
chairman, Lizzie S. Wilcox and L. D.
Alder.
	The business being transacted, meeting
adjourned until Nov. 30th.
	Some time was then spent in social en-
joyment, conversation being interspersed
with vocal and instrumental music and
recitations. Tempting refreshments were
served on small tables which were adorned
with crysanthemums and bows of ribbon in 
the club colors, pale green and heliotrope.
The room was also decorated with these
colors: and beside each plate at table was a
pretty little souvenir, a card tied with rib-
bons of the club’s colors, and bearing the
following inscription:
	MY CONGENIAL FRIENDS
	OF THE
	U.W. P. C.
“As steel sharpeneth steel, so does the companionship
	of a friend brighten the intellect."
The spirit in congenial air
	Ascends to greater heights,
The mind grows broad, and bright and fair,
	While thought takes lofty flights.
The soul expands and conquers wrong,
	Fond hearts more softly beat;
True friendship breathes an endless song
	To make our joy complete.
ELLIS R. SHIPP.
SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 15th, 1895.
	The stanza, being original and a true ex-
pression of Mrs. Shipp’s feelings, found a
ready response in the hearts of her guests.
