FAITH IN THE FUTURE OF UTAH.

	SOME matters pertaining to the new state,
and the state of affairs in the new state, are
being discussed very fairly by women as
well as men, and why not? Women may
not be considered capable of judging impor-
tant issues and questions pending, that in-
volve property rights, individual rights and
marital rights, as well as rites; but they
have quite as much at stake, and perhaps
even more, for women have greater concern
with home and its relations to the state and
with children, and the homes are what the
nation is made up of principally and there
would be no nation if there were no children.
The class of people who migrate, and have
no settled homes are not a nation, they are
only a tribe; women then if so deeply in-
terested should qualify themselves to dis-
cuss intelligently, every question, which
pertains to the life and being and welfare of
this nation, and other nations; they should
acquaint themselves with geographical con-
ditions of country, especially their own
country, as well as other matters, that make
up the sum total. To be ignorant of these
things is to be at the mercy of other people,
and there is very little excuse for ignorance
in this day and age of the world in our free
and enlightened country. There are books
and magazines and newspapers everywhere
and on all subjects, and one is never too old
to learn while one lives.
	And now that women are so soon to as-
sume the responsibilities of the elective
franchise, it becomes a sacred duty to in-
form themselves upon the grave questions
of the times in which they are living. It
is not necessary to make it a public matter,
or to actively participate in public life most
women shrink from that, there are other
methods and ways of studying, and every
sensible wide-awake woman should avail
herself of the best opportunities possible to
her, or within her reach, to look into things,
and get at least a general idea of the gov-
ernment under which she is living and how
its affairs are conducted. 
	The women of Utah should not be be-
hind those of the neighboring states, where
equal suffrage is enjoyed and exercised; and
we have noted with great satisfaction (and
some little pride in the fact also) that our
sisters both in Wyoming and Colorado have
displayed considerable ability, and a good
degree of tact in the part they have taken
in the state affairs.
	It is a source of regret to those who are
specially interested in equal suffrage, that
women were not permitted to take part in

[Column 2]
the first Legislature of the New State, and
if the members elect are wise in their policy,
they will show some consideration for wo-
men in their deliberations when they
meet previous to the Legislative session
proper.
	There are appointive offices in which com-
petent women could do good work, and es-
pecially on all boards of education, of char-
ity and of reformatory institutions. It is
properly woman’s province to assist in
these matters, and even in some of the older
and conservative states where women have
not the ballot, appointments have been
given to women to take part with men in
such places. Certainly the men of Utah
who have been elected to occupy the
highest positions in the gift of the people,
will be just and magnanimous enough to
recognize women without being appealed
to personally; if they do not they will
greatly disappoint one half of the citizens
of this new state, who next year will cast
their votes for the men who have shown
that they would stand by the platform of
principles upon which they are elected.
Women in such positions as educational
charitable and reformatory should be
selected because of the fitness, adaptability
and capabilities for the place or places and
not because of party affiiliations; and when
the time comes that woman’s votes are
counted it is sincerely to be hoped, that they
will make this non-partisanship in educa-
tion, etc., one of the reforms, for which
they will exert their utmost influence.
	The first few years under Statehood will
undoubtedly be fraught with greater inter-
est to all the citizens of Utah than one can
comprehend beforehand. There is a destiny
for the great, West, which has been pre-
dicted by wise men and which is daily be-
coming more widely apparent that must be
fullfilled; and the generation now growing
up have this work to perform; and women
will be participants as well as men; there-
fore the education and growth of knowledge
on all progressive matters should be equal,
and in this way greater historical epochs
may be consummated, than where only
men do the planning, and thinking and
active work.
	“Westward the course of empire wends
its way!” will become more and more
the theme of the poet, and the historian, as
well as the statesman, and the leaders of
the people. Cities will be built up in the
now barren regions, and a higher state of
cultivation than has ever yet been known
will be the glorious future of the people of
the intermountain states: and they will yet
solve the most difficult problems that agi-
tate the world of mankind today.
	All that has ever been predicted of the
future fame and success of Utah, will be
more than realized and perchance during the
next decade. There should be no fear in
the hearts of the people, but a firm faith in
the providences of the Almighty, who will
not fail that people, who put their trust in
Him.


[Column 1]

