IN RURAL ENGLAND.

L.
[Concluded.]
	“EDWARD, my boy, I look upon you al-
most as my own son” said Mr. Barrington,
“otherwise I would not open my heart to
you, but I feel assured you will not betray
my confidence. You already know some-
thing of my history, that I grew up with-
out love, or tenderness from any relative,
I was educated by my uncle, whom you
knew, but he had never even seen me, nor
did he know aught of me except from his
agents in London through whom I received .
my allowance. I came to America on
board the ship on which your father’s,
sister and husband,her cousin and husband,
Dr. Bland, were fellow passengers, and
made their acquaintance; your father was
at that time in foreign lands with Rob Har-
rison (my mother’s brother) who found me
here on his arrival, he was the favored
suitor of your grandfather Hilliard’s wife,
your Aunt Anna’s mother, but through a
conspiracy which has never quite been un-
raveled he lost her, and she became the
wife of Sir Edward. On returning from
his wanderings abroad he met your aunt at
a ball in London and was so struck by her
resemblance to his former sweetheart, and
cousin Clarice Courtney, that he obtained an
introduction, and voluntarily acted as a sort
of self-appointed guardian ever afterwards;
gave her away at the time of her marriage,
and so on. His intention then was to re-
main in England, but somehow he became
strongly attached to Miss Conway, who
was then acting as chaperone to Miss Hil-
liard (Lady Anna) and learning that she
was engaged to Dr. Bland, he decided to
go abroad again, believing fate was against
him in love affairs, and realizing your father
needed experience in the new position he
had been born to, though he knew it not
until his father’s (Sir Edward’s) death, he
decided to continue his wandering life, and
gave himself up wholly to travel, and such
enjoyment as one finds in new places, and
among fresh scenes. Finally from some
sudden impulse, he returned, to find every-
thing changed, and he also found me—the
rest you know except my own particular,
part in the life drama of the people we have 
talked of, which in some instances is more
of a tragedy.”


[Column 1]
	“I am naturally, I think, what some
people designate a religious devotee: I fully
intended when I was ordained to the
ministry to consecrate my life and talents to
the work, and with other dissenters em-
barked for America, where freedom of re-
ligious thought was unrestrained. I have
preached many years, and expect still to do
whatever may seem my duty in this respect
while I live. I never meant to let any-
thing, or any person come between me and
my profession; and I never have (save for a
few days once) but to proceed. You will
pardon my weakness, for I too was young
then, and one cannot quite control one’s
feelings even though a minister.”
	“But ministers marry except Roman
Catholics, uncle Sidney,” said Edward.
	“To be sure they do, but I had grown
up so apart from women, that I was not
like other young men, and my profession
was all in all to me:I almost worshipped
Anna Walton in a certain sense and she re-
turned my affection; but she was another
man’s wife, and therefore sacred, no
thought of making her mine, ever entered
my heart, nor her’s I am sure, for she was
devotion itself to Maitland Walton.”
“Then it was not my Aunt Anna you
were in love with as I had already gussed?”
“No, Edward it was not, and you must
not be shocked when I tell you who it was.
After the death of Lady Anna and of Dr.
Bland, when Mrs. Bland was so lonely and
in great need of sympathy, I was for a time
almost constantly in her company; she is
very fascinating, and has wonderful power
over those with whom she is associated, no
doubt you have heard, she was the only
person who possessed any real influence
with your grandfather, the Baronet. Is it
strange then that a young man, even though
he were a clergyman should have unwilling-
ly yielded to this peculiar charm of mind
and heart? I was not aware of the state of
my own feelings, until I was openly ac-
cused by some of my church members.
Then I was overwhelmed with the thought
forced upon me, and besought the Lord in
prayer; fear lest I had betrayed to Mrs.
Bland a secret, I myself had not realized
until then, humiliated me, until I was men-
tally ill. The Lord was very merciful to
me, and helped me to bear my sorrow alone.
I felt sure Mrs. Bland esteemed me as a
friend and brother and it comforted me to
think so; she had great need of some one
to whom she could speak confidentially. I
could not endure that she should think any
selfish motive had induced me to sympathize
with her in her loneliness. Yet my love
was none the less real, though it had stolen
upon me unawares.
“Very soon after—and while I was still
struggling with my pent-up emotions, Lord
Walton came back bringing his mother
with him and everything was changed.
It seemed providential—for as you know
later on my uncle returned, and then I
learned from his own lips, how he had
loved Jane Conway; and had gone abroad,
to try and forget, had taken your father
with him partly as a sort of tie between
himself and the family, and partly because
of his companionship—for he was an at-
tractive man in all endearing qualities.
My uncle wooed and won Mrs. Bland, and
O, how thankful I was, that I had never
spoken to her of my feelings. Had my
uncle returned and found me a suitor for
the hand of one he had loved, we could
never have been friends; as it was we were

[Column 2]
bosom companions. I myself solemnized
the marriage; and no one knew my secret.
I often trembled lest by voice, or manner I
should betray it. All these years it has
slept as it were until now; I have never
spoken before to any one. You Edward
seem to be more alone than other boys—
and my sympathy for you is greater because
of it, though to be sure Mrs. Harrison is
very much attached to you, yet I can see as
you do, that she has decided views against
intermarriages of relatives. I do not know
whether in your case these scruples can be
overcome. Conway took her by storm, he
has the same sort of masterful spirit, as
his mother, and as your grandfather. She
was compelled to submit in that case, but
in another similar one, I fear she would be
more unwilling still, and you are so en-
tirely different.”
	“Uncle Sidney can’t you intercede for
me, I know my aunt has great confidence
in your advice will you speak for me? I
am as truly an American in feeling and
sentiment as you are, I shall never return
to England, she need not fear that. I am
sure Clarice loves me, and we shall always
be near you—and with Aunt Jane. I
would ask Conway to intercede for me, but
I cannot approach him; he has nothing in
common with me, we are so different, but
you uncle Sidney surely you will succeed if
you attempt it, and who knows but in
pleading my cause you may have the
courage to tell your own story?”
	“No Edward, I am not so conceited as to
think Mrs. Harrison would ever think of
me except as her spiritual adviser, and a
friend of the family, I wonder at myself
whenever I dare to look into my own heart.
This conversation must never be repeated;
and you must not upon any account, or in
any way or at any time refer to it.”
	“It has given me great courage, to hear
what you have suffered and I can see how
brave and true you have been to your bet-
ter nature, it makes me feel how weak and
foolish I am, and but for your wise teach-
ing, and heroic conduct always, I should be
less manly than I am, I owe much to you
and to my Aunt Jane—that is why I can-
not bear to grieve her, or to go contrary to
her wishes, but if I cannot gain her consent,
in this matter, I shall never be good for
anything.”
	“So you think now my boy, but you can
rise superior to any obstacle if you will but
be determined, and put your trust in One
above, and take hold of some useful em-
ployment which will occupy your undivided
attention.”
	“I will speak to Mrs. Harrison in your
behalf the first good opportunity, but you
must not be too sure of my success; I know
how unhappy it will make her, to have
another marriage in her own family as it
were.”
	Sidney Barrington sought an interview
with Mrs. Harrison not many days after
his talk with Edward Hilliard, and found
her bitterly opposed to the uniou of “these
two children” as she called them. But she
considered the matter carefully as she
promised Mr. Barrington she would, and
after much deliberation and great persis-
tency on the part of Clarice who was very
determined, she permitted the marriage to
take place, not however withont many mis-
givings as to its propriety. It was very
evident to her friends and neighbors that
in her heart she wholly disapproved of it,
and in fact that she was sorely disappointed
in the marriages of her family.

[Column 3]
	Events of importance followed each other
in the years just subsequent to the marriages
in Mrs. Harrison’s family, and it was well
for even this brave-hearted, strong minded
woman that she had a friend like Sidney
Barrington to stand by her through trials
and difficulties, ever true as steel,ever hope-
ful, ever ready to strengthen her to endure
and point with faith in the future; for
though he had not the prophetic nature
she possessed yet he had that quality of
tenderness for all human woes, that tacit
sympathy never obtrusive, but ever helpful
to the sorrowing and those who suffer.
	Conway Bland became in time a man of
influence in the community and was highly
respected and useful, in fact quite celebrated
in his profession, and his mother was justly
proud of his attainments. His wife was
strikingly beautiful as her mother had been,
and their children were all that could be
desired.
	Edward Hilliard had never been
physically strong and gradually his health
failed, sometimes the physicians advised
him to go to Italy but that seemed almost
impossible with a wife and child, and Mrs.
Harrison could not consent to part from
them: love and gentle nursing with the
best medical skill could not save him, and
ere three years had elapsed from the date of
the marriage Clarice was left a widow. It
was good for her that she had the little one
to take her attention, for she was inconsol-
able with grief.
	Dr. Bland, Anna Walton and now Ed-
ward Hilliard were laid in the grave-yard
among the pines near the New England
coast, where the sea makes mournful music
not far off.
	While the family were plunged in sorrow
by the sad death of Edward Hilliard, who
should arrive to surprise them, without
even sending a message beforehand but
Kate Walton the great aunt of young Mrs.
Bland. It was a happy circumstance for
them all; it diverted their minds from the
affiction and loss which was very heavy.
Miss Walton was very cheery, and had
come for a change, she was tired of every-
thing, and after running the gauntlet of
seasides, summer resorts, and winters in
London, and Paris, bethought herself of
America and her grand-niece, and as she
said fearing if she wrote and asked permis-
sion, they would “think her a tiresome old
maid,” and perhaps say it was not con-
venient, she decided to take them unawares.
"And now I’m here” she said, one day
soon after her arrival, “you must make the
best of it.” And really she made herself
very agreeable; she had become quite a
sensible person, not at all like her former
self; and as she knew the history of the older
members of both families and even Jane
Conway’s mother the sister of Sir Edward
Hilliard, and many of the love affairs of
these people which had been a sort of hid-
den mystery, she was never tiresome and
the young people became somewhat familiar
with the family history, a generation or
two back. Miss Walton brought with her
from Walton Hall some old letters of Sir
Edward’s written to Lady Walton when
she was Helen Leigh and a queer old locket,
set with pearls, containing his picture when
a young man: these she gave to Mrs. Har-
rison saying, “I think Anna should have
her grandfather’s picture, but the letters
you may destroy, they belong to another
age.” Mrs. Harrison knew more of this
affair than the letters betrayed, but she
kept her own counsel—she had heard the


[Column 1]
story both from her uncle, and Lady Wal-
ton. What a book this woman might have
written, what incidents, what tragedies por-
trayed. Miss Walton was pleased with
America and stayed on and on busying
herself with Anna’s children like Mrs. Har-
rison and taking a deep interest in their
family affairs. She was as much impressed
with Mr. Barrington as the other members
of the family; and though she could not
quite accept his peculiar doctrines "being
too intensely English,” as she thought, yet
she always loved to listen to him when he
spoke in public, which he only consented
to do occasionally. Thanks to Miss Wal-
ton who brought with her across the sea all
the legends of the old castle, even to the
ghost stories and repeated them to the
young people, so that they became familiar
topics and were handed down from one
generation to another. Clarice made her-
self famous in literary work a tendency she
had inherited from her father Robert Har-
rison, and some of her writings are said to
have been very strong and forcible for the
day in which she lived and flourished, and
her poetical effusions tender, sympathetic
and fanciful. She never married again but
devoted her life to her mother and son, dy-
ing before her mother, who after her death
never seemed to have the same enjoyment
in affairs she had always hitherto mani-
fested.
	Meantime a family of young folks grew
up and married some of them becoming
quite distinguished, including Edward
Hilliard the son of Edward and Clarice and
grandson of Clair, and strange enough as
fate would have it, he chose one of the
Doctor’s daughters, a far-off cousin, beauti-
ful as a summer dream, but nevertheless of
the same kin; another grievous trial for his
grandmother, who had set her heart upon
his following her advice in reference to
marriage.
	All the characters mentioned have long
since been gathered home, into the un-
known, and sleep securely their last long
sleep. Jane Harrison learned of Sidney
Barrington’s attachment some years before
her death,through Kate Walton in whom he
confided on an occasion when she had in-
quired why he had never married or if he
had been ‘‘crossed in love in early youth.”
	He replied that he had never loved but 
once and then unhappily, and as Miss Wal-
ton was very fond of romance and had the
rare faculty of obtaining secret information,
she urged and persuaded him to make a
full confession, which he did; she repeated
the conversation in full to the lady herself
thinking it a good joke. Mrs. Harrison
took it seriously and it made her more
tender and deferential towards her life-long
friend; and her only reply to Miss Walton
was—‘‘It never could have been Kate, I
loved him as a brother but no more, and I
know he has been true without hope of re-
ward, but if he had loved you it might
have been different, I only wish you two
had met before,” Mrs. Harrison was as-
sured, in her own mind, that Kate Walton
had an especial regard for the minister,
though he was young enough to have been
her son. It is a pity to analyze too
definitely the hearts of men and women,
even though they died long ago, that they
were human is doubtless true of all who
have ever lived, and we venture the opinion
that Kate Walton and Sidney Barrington
were no exception to the common rule of
rall the world.
	Miss Walton died in America an aged

[Column 2]
spinster, and was buried beside Lady An-
na—where not long after Sidney Barring-
ton was also laid to rest. Edward Walton died
comparatively young and without heirs, as
the last Lady Walton had no claim upon
the entailed estate, the property was thrown
into chancery the American relatives mak-
ing no sort of protest.
	Of their descendants not much is known
save of one a woman, of like characteristics
to Jane Conway, but she lived in the
nineteenth century though born a few years
before it begun. She knew the history of
her ancestry, and told the stories of the old
castles and great elms and oaks, and parks
and green fields and hedges to her family,
with many incidents of interest not men-
tioned here, and she was proud of the
descent and of the inheritance of good blood,
and an honored name, and especially of the
remarkable woman, Jane Conway,
and this strong-minded prophetic daughter
of their race inherited much of their
nobility, though she had not the wealth to
which she was legally entitled.
	In the early days of the preaching of the
Everlasting Gospel in this dispensation,
this grand woman of refined temperament
and gentle blood, embraced the truth and
cast her lot with the peculiar people who
gathered in the Western States, and there
she commenced to lay a foundation for the
redemption of her noble ancestry, which it
is ardently hoped her posterity will continue,
for it is evident from the records of these
families they were people of destiny.


