CONFERENCE OF THE NATIONAL AMERICAN
	WOMAN SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION; HELD
	AT SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY, 13, AND
	14, 1895.
	[Continued.]
	Miss Anthony; Now I want to intro-
duce to you a full-fledged voter, Mrs. Brad-
ford, who was nominated on the Democratic
ticket for State Superintendent of public 
instruction. Now Mrs. Bradford comes to
you not having voted as yet for President,
from a state where it has always been urged
that women would not vote if they could,
but I have been told by an Ex-governor
that in Colorado, Denver, especially, that a 
large majority of the women went to the 
polls and cast their vote; so that settles
that objection that women wont vote.
	REMARKS BY MRS. BRADFORD.
	Ladies and Gentlemen: With Miss 
Anthony and Miss Shaw on the program
were it not from the fact that I am from
Colorado, it would be quite unnecessary for
me to say anything to you; but still I have
an advantage, I can vote, I have voted and
I mean to vote as long as I live, and I love
to vote. (Applause.)
	There are so many things that have been
said against suffrage that in the eighteen
months since we have possessed it, have
been absolutely contradicted in my own ex-
perience, that I think it possible that I shall 
do you the most service if I confine myself
to telling you something about what I
actually know, have actually seen done and 
have done myself. Mr. Roberts, a Demo-
crat, said at the Convention words some-
thing to this effect, I am quoting it: “he
said he thought there would be no objec-
tion to women going to the ballot box
quietly, but the primaries and conventions
and things of that sort would be so ex-
tremely degrading to women. I have taken 
part in primaries, I have taken part in two
conventions, I have stumped that State
twice and I don't feel a bit degraded. The
women in Colorado take a great interest in
politics, many of us a far greater interest
than the men; in fact you know there are
only half as many women in Colorado as
men, yet 60 per cent of the votes last
year were cast by women. I think that is
a pretty good record for the sex who would
not vote if they could. (Applause.)
	It has been said that the women would 
be so extremely partisan and so excessively
excitable. Now I have always heard the
most beautiful tribute to woman was her
power to become a peacemaker, and I sup-
pose the men think she would lose that
lovely quality and become partisan. Now
you know in colorado instead of becoming 
partisan and fighting among ourselves, the
women of one party organized into a state
club or state organization and they said to
the men who had two separate organiza-
tions and yet are called by the same name
and had been in that condition for two 
years and a most disgraceful condition it
was; this State organization of women 
said: "We will organize in every county in
this State, we will recognize all you men by

[Column 2]
the name of the party to which from princi-
ple we belong and which we love and hon-
or, but you don't get a single vote and we
won't sit in a convention until you shake
hands and make up and stop that quarrel-
ing. (Applause.)
	So we stood together and I went out over
the State, in every county in the state and 
the men shook hands, and when they came
to Denver they organized in two separate
conventions as usual and the elected the
women delegates and we went to the morn-
ing sessions, and the afternoon sessions
and we called ourselves by the name of the
party, and not by the name of their faction
and we said they would have to do some-
thing so they came together in one big con-
vention and they said "God bless the wo-
men; they did it!" (applause) So we carry
that most pleasing of all qualities the love
of peace and the power to bring about 
peaci in our political parties, and that is not
the only thing, we know how to be decent
to our political opponents.
	When I was in the Southern part of the 
State a dear friend of mine said to me:
"They are going to give you a reception to-
day and that reception must be at my
house." I replied, "What do you think of
a Democratic reception being given in a 
Populist's house?" And she said, "It
doesn't make any difference, I love you and 
I am going to keep you my friend just the 
same. We should be able to recognize the
good in all parties and to preserve and
maintain the right, to be gentlemen and
gentlewomen, to carry out the beautiful
rule to "do unto others as you would have
them do unto you." So I think our in-
fluence was decidedly good. 
	Men are supposed to be civilized enough
by the influence of women, and in mining
camps men become a great deal better and
more gentle, I went to one place in Colorado
and I was met by a committee and the wife
of the Chairman of the Committee came to
see me shortly afterwards. She said, "My
husband blacked his boots the first time in
his life when he went to the train to meet
you." (Laughter and applause.) We 
taught politeness, we taught the men to be
as careful of the woman politician as of the 
woman in the home, and instead of lessen-
ing our power we had just as much rever-
ence paid to us and the reverence had a 
good deal of solid interior respect behind it
instead of merely outside ceremony.


HELEN KELLER, the deaf and blind girl,
is in New York attending the Wright-
Humason School for oral instruction to the
deaf, and has made such progress that she
is looking forward to entering college.
Those who talk to her can now speak to
her as they would to any one else. She
hears them through her fingers by placing
them on the lips, face and throat of the
person speaking.
	MME. HANNA KORANY, who came to
America as delegate from Syria to the
World’s Fair, has left the country for a
visit to her native land. Her heaith has
been seriously affected by onr climate, but
she proposes to return and become an
American citizen, having taken out her
“intention papers” previous to her de-
parture. Korany was the first woman to
speak in public in Syria, and she has given
many lectures in different parts of her coun-
try. She is famous, also, for her writings,
and is called the “George Eliot of the
East.” She has spoken before many wo-


men’s clubs in the United States, and has
engagements for lectures and articles on
her return.
	“MARCELLA” appears as one of the char-
acters in the December instalment of Mrs.
Humphrey Ward’s novel, “Sir George
Tressady,” in The Century. “Marcella”
is now Lady Maxwell.


