RICHMOND.
	Minutes of the 16th annual meeting of
the Richmond Primary Association, Presi-
dent Harriet Fisher presiding. Singing,
“Beautiful Zion.” Prayer by Sister Sarah
Stocks. Singing “Gather up the Sun-
beams.” Minutes of the last anniversary
were read and accepted. Also the Financial
and Statistical report. The first on the pro-
gramme was a dialogue, entitled the
“Greatest Man,” by Lowell and Hattie
Merrill. Emma Sorensen recited “A
welcome address.” Nettie and Lydia
Schow sang, “Let it pass.” Lawrence
Monson gave a recitation. Caroline and
Annie Anderson sang, “Song of little Ma-

[Column 2]
bel.” Harry Vetty gave a recitation.
Stake Counselor Mattie B. Hansen gave
good instructions, encouraged the children
in the Primary work. Marian Hendricks
recited “Poverty Plagues.” “Welcome
song” by a class of girls. Sister Hannah
Brower read an original address entitled
“Our Prophet Brigham,” also spoke a short
time. Questions and answers about chil-
dren were answered by a class of small
boys. Libbie and Maggie Johnson sang a
song. Hazel Robinson recited “God sees.”
Stake Counselor Emma B. Pike spoke a
short time giving excellent instruction.
Willie Adamson recited “A boy’s com-
plaint.” Alvaretta and Orella Merrill re-
cited a dialogue entitled “Helping Mother.”
Mertie Harris recited “Every inch a man.”
	Resolutions of respect in loving remem-
brance of Eva Ann Brower were read by
Harriet E. Lawrence.
	“Resolutions of respect in memory of Eva
Ann Brower a member of the Richmond
Primary Association. It is with sadness we
record the death of our little friend Eva,
the beloved daughter of Henry and Annie
Brower who departed this life after a ling-
ering sickness Aug. 29th, 1894, aged ten
years seven months and fifteen days She
was a lovely, dutiful child and held the re-
spect of all who were acquainted with her.
	Therefore be it resolved, that we her
friends and associates hold in remembrance
the life of one whose actions in the past
merit the reward of the faithful, and be it
also,—
	Resolved that in her death our associa-
tion has lost one of its most promising mem-
bers,—
	And be it further resolved that a copy of
these resolutions be given to her parents
and also a copy be placed on the record of
our Primary Association.”
	Bishop William L. Skidmore spoke a
short time counseling the children to be
obedient and do what is right.
	Singing, “We are the children of the
Saints.” Benediction by Counselor Chris-
tian Hyer.
	Minutes of the afternoon session of the
Primary annual meeting, President H. H.
Fisher presiding. Singing love at home.”
Prayer by Sister Mary Allsop. Singing
“Live for something.” Minutes of the
afternoon session of the last Primary Anni-
versary were read and accepted. Sarah
Smith recited “June queen of summer.”
Wesley Merrill and Pauline Hendricks
sang, “Children’s day.” Sampson and
Leroy Webb recited a dialogue entitled
“The Deacon.” Effie Tippetts gave a reci-
tation. Questions and answers entitled
“The Church,” were recited by a class of
small girls. Julia and Jessie Hendricks
sang “Bessie Fair.” Bertha Monson re-
cited “The Explosion.” Charlie Webb
and Company sang, “The Mormon boy.”
Sister Mary Allsop recited “The power of
God.” Stake Counselor Mattie B. Hansen
spoke a short time. Song “I cannot catch
the sunbeams” by a class of small girls. A
dialogue entitled "Learning to smoke,” by
Roy Burnham, Willie Barnett, Elmer Mer-
rill and Bertha Johnson. Erma Griffen
gave a recitation. Inez Rainey and Flor-
ence Pet y sang a song. Flora Burnham
recited “Little hero.” Eva Gridla gave a
recitation. Mrs Belle Petty and company
sang a song. Stake Counselor Emma B.
Pike spoke encouragingly to the children.
President Harriet Fisher thanked all for
their help in making our meeting a success


Singing “Little Feet." Benediction by
Counselor Wallace K. Burnham. 
	HARRIET H. FISHER, President.
MARY C. MERRILL	}
MINNIE D. JOHNSON }Counselors. 
