SALT LAKE CO. W. S. A.
	MINUTES of meeting held Aug. 20th, in
the Fourteenth Ward Hall, President E. B.
Ferguson in the chair. Sang, “Oh ye fair
ones.” Prayer by Mrs. Fewson Smith.
Sang, “Our Country.” Minutes of May
meeting read and approved. Roll called,
many subjects were discussed, and questions
answered by the president, who also read a
chapter on the organizations of State Con-
stitutions. Adjourned for one month.
Benediction M. E. Irvine.

	Minutes of meeting held Oct. 15th,
President Ferguson in the chair. Sang,
“In Twilight Hours.” Prayer by Jane
Allbrand. Roll called, minutes of August
meeting read and approved. The president
referred to Mrs. Stanton’s birthday, and
asked Mary P. Silver to report what the
president wished done in the matter, found
the lady very busy, was asked to call again.
Elizabeth M. Price gave her reason for
thinking we should continue suffrage meet-
ings, they were good. Adjourned for one
month. Benediction M. P. Silver.

	Minutes of meeting held Nov. 19th, in
the Fourteenth Ward Hall, President E.
B. Ferguson in the chair. Sang, “Proud
State of the Union.” Prayer, State Presi-
dent, E. B. Wells. Sang, “Our Country.”
Roll called, minutes read and approved.
President Ferguson mentioned that we had
sent a telegram to congratulate Mrs. Eliza-
beth Cady Stanton on her birthday, an-
nounced that this was our annual meeting
for the election of officers, but in talking
over the matter found some who thought
further meetings unnecesary, would like an
expression from members. A number ex-
pressed their views, but all were in favor of
continuing, for another year at least.
Stake President E. B. Wells told the ladies
in regard to the Onyx Box which had been
sent to Mrs. Stanton, regretted more could
not see it. President Ferguson thought we
had better proceed to the election of officers,
which was then done, resulting in the fol-
lowing ladies being chosen. Kate H. Groes-
beck, president; Della W. Eardley, first
vice-president; E. J. MacFarlane, second
vice-president; E. M. Price, third vice-
president; Cassie C. Newman, Secretary;
Mary P. Silver Treasurer. Mary J. Hol-
den, Chairman Executive Board. Martha
Greames, Eliza V. Smith, Martha Baldwin,
Jane Allbrand, members of the Board.
	The new officers took their places. A vote
of thanks was given to the retiring officers,
and other business transacted. Meeting ad-
journed for one month.
