	MARGARET A. CAINE, Rec. Sec.


[Column 1]
ETERNITY OF GOD.
	AT the Latter-Day Saints’ hall, 48 Sands
street, Elder S. W. Richards spoke yester-
day upon the “Eternity of God and the Im-
mortality of the Soul of Man,” quoting
Isaiah XL 12-14. Evidences of the ex-
istence of an intelligent being whom the
Christian world call God, he said, are so
numerous that to most intelligent minds
there is no doubt of this great ultimate fact.
They are discoverable in the creation of the
earth and of man to dwell upon it, demon-
strating an intelligence, wisdom and power
not possessed by man or any combination of
men. The idea of such a being as the
creator or organizer of material things has
existed among men since dwelling upon the
earth, and He must have existed before the
creative work was done, making Him, as
relates to earth and time, a being of eternity,
not limited by time as measured unto man.
He was before time and will be after time
—from everlasting to everlasting; un-
changeable, possessing and exercising at-
tributes that endure “while life or thought
or being lasts or immortality endures.”
Having accepted this fact as one which
consciousness approves, it becomes desir-
able to learn what relationship man sustains
to such an allwise, infinite and eternal God.
We are told that man’s body was formed in
the likeness and image of his maker—like
God’s body; that the spirit of life by which
it was quickened came from the same
source, and when thus animated the body
and spirit united became a living soul, and
that this creator God is the Father of the
spirits of all flesh; that when the spirit and
body are separated by death the spirit re-
turns to God, who gave it, while the body
returns to dust, from whence it came. The
fact that the spirit of man came from God
and shall return to him again proclaims the
eternity of the spirit. But what of the
body? Is the soul of man to be eternally
lost by an eternal separation of spirit from
the body? If so, then the work of God in
creating man is frustrated—made void by
the power of sin, and death has triumphed.
This cannot be, for it is written the grave
shall have no victory, death no sting.
Therefore, it must needs be that the spirit
and body be again united to become a liv-
ing soul, and in a state where there is no
death. In this state and condition it is im-
mortal, and the immortality of the soul is
accomplished.
	But who is to bring to pass this resurrec-
tion or reunion of the body and spirit? Not
man; he has no power to accomplish this.
it must be some one who has all power,
both in heaven and on earth—in heaven for
the spirit’s sake and on earth for the body’s
sake. This work can only be done by one
who is free from sin and over whom death
has no power. It must be the work of a
Redeemer, a Savior from this condition of
death, and this was accomplished by Jesus
Christ, who came to earth, died as men die
then arose from the dead and established
the resurrection or reunion of the spirit and
body for all men; as it is written that as in
Adam all died so in Christ shall all be made
alive; and the decree has gone forth that
this mortal shall put on immortality, this
corruption shall put on incorruption, and
the mission of Jesus shall restore all men
who ever lived to the condition of living
souls, and bring them again into the
presence of the Father to be judged for the
deeds done while living souls in the body.

[Column 2]
In the condition of immortality those who
have kept the law of God shall receive glory
and happiness forever, while those who
have rebelled against God and denied the
efficacy of the atonement shall go away to a
condition of misery and wretchedness, such
as their sins have justly merited, as shall be
determined by Him whose judgments are
just to all men.
	The programme of human existence was
devised from the time before the world was,
that here in a state of trial man might
prove his fidelity to God, the truth and
right and become developed in all the at-
tributes of a godly character, which at-
tributes have been transmitted and inherited
as a legacy from the Father to His children,
and all this that the children may become
like the Father, and in their turn know as
He knows, love as He loves and possess as
He possesses, kingdoms and thrones with
etemal lives, being made kings and priests
unto God to reign with Him forever.
	S. W. RICHARDS. 
	Brooklyn Eagle, Oct. 28th, 1895.


