LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of meeting held in Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms, Nov. 2nd, 1895.
Counselor E. Stevenson presiding. Opened
by singing, “O, Jesus the Giver.” Prayer
by Sister L. D. Alder. Continued by sing-
ing “Do what is right.” Sister Alder was
called upon to act as secretary. Minutes of
previous meeting read and approved.

[Column 2]
	President Horne having arrived said she
was glad to meet with us again, said'
“this is a day when we should be as wise
as serpents but harmless as doves. We
should remember the teaching of Jesus,
how he walked and talked with his disciples, ’
yet they did not understand him. We are ,
responsible for our own actions. This is a -
time that Satan is working hard to over-
throw the saints. He and his emissaries,
are wide awake. Sisters becalm, we know
the right will triumph, and let us say “The.
Lord’s will be done.” Do we rely upon
God for grace? Let us watch and pray.
We must be wise and not let our sympathy
run away with our judgment. We should .
be just also. Do good to all but know
what the Gospel requires. The Gospel is
here and is free to all, shall we descend to
the level of those who reject it?
	Sister Peterson, bore her testimony, knew
the Gospel was true, and prayed to be stead-
fast to its principles.
	One sister in the congregation spoke of
the blessings of God to her, had worked in
His house for the dead. There is no true
happiness except among the saints of God.
	Another sister bore her testimony, always
rejoiced in this work. Be faithful, for the
stone from the mountains will crush all
other things, as it rolls forth. Let us
strengthen the hands of onr brothers and
sisters.
	Sister Laker said she put the kingdom of
God first. Pray God to bless all my sisters
and the brethren.
	Sister Morris, felt paid for coming to
meeting this afternoon. This is a day'of
trial, we came here to serve God. His
kingdom takes all. The weak the strong,
all can who wish to serve Him and keep
His commandments. The Lord is no-
respector of persons. We gain the truth,
but we cannot give it. All must seek for
it. I pray God to strengthen the sisters
who preside over us.
	Sister Julia Pack enjoyed herself in the
work of God, “I still feel firm in the work,
I desire to be true, and be faithful? We
need the Spirit of God, to have faith and
may we overcome in the end.!
Sister Hazen, “These meetings are a
source of joy to me. I feel at home, here,
I pray the Lord to strengthen us. The 
Lord blesses those who desire to serve
Him.
	Counselor Elizabeth Webb, “I have been ",
in the Church many years, but never saw
a more momentous time than it is now.
Let us seek the Lord continually for wis-
dom. May peace and quiet be restored
again. In the Temple of our God there is
peace. Let us go there and labor. Get
the influence of that house, and take it
home with us. We need the spirit of love
and union. Let us meet together often and
may none of us go astray.”
	A sister in the congregation bore her
testimony, prayed for the spirit of God to
lead her at all times. Another sister, was
thankful that she was in the Church, never
doubted that this was the Church of God.
Desired to be worthy to be a child of God.
	Sister Julia Samson: “A time is coming
that we shall have to stand shoulder to
shoulder. We have no idea what is before
us. We should pray for God to strengthen 
us. The blessings promised to us (if we
are faithful) we can only gain in the end,
if we enjoy the Holy Spirit we have con-
tinual peace.
	Sister Alder bore her testimony and de-


sired to be faithful.
	Sister Phillips asked the aid of the Lord,
that she might do the work for some of her
dead, related a dream concerning the dead.
	This is a day that those who are not of
Israel will be sifted out.
	Closing remarks by President Horne.
Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing “Our God we raise to thee.” Benediction
Sister Elizabeth Paul.
	L. D. ALDER, Act. Sec.


