	MARGHERITA ARLINA HAMM.


[Column 1]
LETTER FROM NEW YORK.
	48 Sands St. Brooklyn, N. Y.
						Nov. 14, 1895.
SECTETARY N. W. RELIEF SOCIETY,
	Dear Sister:—Now that the occasion of
“Reunion of the Pioneers and friends of
Woman’s Progress,” on the eightieth birth-
day of Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton has
passed into history, as also the reception
tendered her on yesterday at the Hotel
Savoy, at which we were present, we send
to you a brief memoraudum of some of the
features of that event.
	The letter of information and sug-
gestions relative to our attendance, was

[Column 2]
duly received. The Metropolitian Opera
House at which the Reunion was held, seem-
ed a very appropriate place, said to have a
seating capacity, for three thousand two hun-
dred and nine persons, and from the gallery
boxes, banners with suitable mottoes, and
other decorations added to the attractiveness
of the place, while in the front centre of the
platform was erected an arch most beauti-
fully decorated with flowers, under which
was seated the lady guest of the occasion,
and by her side the President of the
National Council, Mrs. Dickinson, delegates
&c., occupied the spacious platform
promiscuously. It was eight thirty p. m.
when the President Mrs. Dickinson tendered
an expression of welcome and greeting, and
program proceedings commenced.
	But only a portion of the program ap-
peared on the stage. It has been suggested
previously that speakers should be allowed
ten minutes, but lectures were read occupy-
ing time, in one instance to twenty-five
minutes, and others without restriction, so
that only a comparatively small part of the
program was realized.
	It is understood, however, that a Pamph-
let will be published, in which will appear
all the addresses prepared for the occasion,
among them probably, one from the Utah
delegation.
	Notice of Reception on the following day
to be held at the Hotel Savoy, was given
with invitation extended to those who
would be pleased to attend. At this, the
Utah Delegation was present, and was cor-
dially recognized by Ladies Stanton,
Anthony, Dickinson and others too numer-
ous to mention. Mrs. Stanton and Miss
Anthony especially spoke of their high re-
gard for the ladies of Utah, and wished a
suitable remembrance. No public presenta-
tion of the Onyx Box was made, but it
was mentioned among other presents which
had been received.
	The whole affair was very pleasant and
at the reception Mrs. Dickinson announced
that in 1900, five years hence, there would
be another similar event, and all were re-
quested to see that at that time their purses
were well filled as well as their minds
stored, for that, to be, most grand affair.
Elder Barnes who with us visited the Com-
mittee, received a complimentary ticket and
attended.
	The Utah delegation wore the colors, blue,
white and gold, which represent the colors
of the Utah Ladies Banner. As you will no
doubt be favored with the pamphlets when
they appear with the addresses, the sisters
will then be able to express their approval or
disapproval of the sentiments offered by
the delegation, as representing woman’s
rights and efforts, and the sure reward of
those efforts.
	Permit us now to say that it was a pleas-
ing opportunity for us, and we only hope
it may be quite satisfactory to those whom
we in person were honored to represent,
though not assigned to any program duty
upon the occasion, by which our voice
could be heard in praise of the labor done
under the most perfect organization known,
and by the ladies of Utah, who are not a

[Column 3]
whit behind the chiefest of those to whom
homage is paid.
	Wishing you, and those prominently en-
gaged with you as saviors among men,
life, peace and happiness; we are your fel-
low laborers for human redemption,
