[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | August | Issue: 4 | Title: SALT LAKE STAKE. | Author: Unknown]

SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of this Stake was held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall in this city June 17,
1892, President M. I. Horne presiding.
Meeting opened with the hymn "O happy
souls who pray," prayer was offered by
Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, continued with
singing "O, say what is truth;" minutes of
previous Conference read and approved.
Mrs. Home made the opening address in
which she urged the sisters to cultivate
spiritual gifts, and perform the duties that
pertain to their spiritual welfare as well as
those of a temporal nature, to be saints in-
deed as well as to profess the name of Saint,
and seek to learn and to walk in the ways


[Column 1]

of the Lord; rejoiced that we had no diffi-
culties to settle in our Relief Society,
realized the union that existed and that we
enjoyed the spirit of the Lord in our meet-
ings. Counselor Elmina S. Taylor spoke
of having just recently attended a very in-
teresting Conference at Brigham City; felt
that every branch of the Relief Society in
this Stake should have a representative
present that we may know how the work is
progressing in our surrounding settlements;
"we have the best organization on the
earth, and it takes in the oldest and the
youngest and we know it is the work of the
Lord, let us be careful that we don't fall by
the way, but let us watch ourselves that we
may not be led by the snares that Satan is
laying for the people of God."
	President Bathsheba W. Smith spoke of
the mothers, their influence with children,
thought example better than precept, hoped
we might live in such a manner that the
calamities that are coming upon the earth
causing destruction might be averted from
us through our humility and faithfulness
before the Lord. The following Presidents
made verbal reports of their respective
branches of the Relief Society, Mrs. Eliza-
beth Pixton, Taylorsville, Mrs. Z. V.
Eardley, also made some interesting re-
marks. Mrs. E. Weiler reported 3rd Ward
S. L. City, Mrs. Ann Holt, South Jordan,
Mrs. C. Smith, Draper, Mrs. E. J. Bodell,
Herriman. Each one of the sisters spoke
encouragingly of the work in the ward
where she presided and felt to persevere in
the duties pertaining to the Society.
	President Horne gave good and wise
connsel in regard to storing grain and also
the care to be taken of it, and referred to
the times of famine that were sure to come
in fulfillment of the predictions of the
prophets, quoted from the Scriptures "who
will not take up the sword against his
neighbor must needs flee to Zion for safety,"
also alluded to the saying of President
Heber C. Kimball that, "we would see the
time when wheat would be worth its weight
in gold."
	Conference adjourned to 2 p. m., singing
"The time is far spent." Benediction by
Mrs. Diana Reid.

	Afternoon session: Opened with singing
"Come let us anew &c," prayer by Mrs. E. 
Webb, singing "For the strength of the
hllls we bless thee;" Mrs. E. Howard was
the first speaker, gave an interesting ac-
count of her visit to San Juan Stake, spoke
of the long distances between the settle-
ments, the beauties of the scenery and the
hospitality of the people; also the interest
manifested by the women in all the great
questions of the day.
	Mrs. Mary S. Clark of Farmington oc-
cupied a short time, spoke of the prophecies
being fulfilled in our day; of the necessity
of sacrifice in our daily lives, the overcom-
ing of weaknesses and guarding against
temptations; the need of cultivating our
minds by reading and study as well as our
hearts by the spirit of the Lord; desired to
gain intelligence which is the glory of God.
	President Zina D. H. Young: had re-
cently visited Logan Temple and enjoyed a
season of refreshing; made some remarks
upon the work for the dead in the Lord's
House; the joy and satisfaction it gave in
performing it, spoke of our dear beloved
Sister Eliza with whom she stood side by
side so long in many places, was reminded
of her particularly at the Conference in
Brigham City, related some early reminis-

[Column 2]

cences of the Church and of the Prophet
Joseph and his teachings to the Saints.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells thought we scarcely
realized the magnitude of the work of the
Relief Society organization, and that each
individual member had duties to perform
therewith; the increase of love through our
associating together promotes charity for
one another and all the world, we think
more of one another's welfare and appreciate
each other better than we could have done
outside of being united in this capacity. Re-
lated some items of her visit to the Pacific
Coast recently and of having attended the
Bible class of Mrs. Sarah E. Cooper, the
great speaker and kindergarten organizer,
the interpretation she gave to Nebuched-
nezzar's dream interpreted by Daniel.
Spoke upon the subject of education and
what would be expected of our children in
the future.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball, said "those who do
the most thinking are the best educated; in
the School of the Prophets in Nauvoo, when
Joseph Smith was giving instruction to the
brethren, he told them to make everything
they undertook a subject of prayer. If we
had the faith we ought to have this house
would be filled, we are not required to do
anything impossible; it is true we have
many duties to perform, but let us do those
that are most important, and meet our re-
sponsibilities in a proper manner."
	Mrs. Ada Brim, Cassia Stake; spoke of
the enjoyment she had experienced since
coming to the Young Men's Conference in
meeting with the sisters and hearing the
good instructions, and interesting subjects
that had been treated upon, hoped to take
home with her much that would be bene-
ficial to herself and others in that locality.
	Mrs. Agnes Cutler, President West Jordan
ward spoke of the Hall the Society had
built and of its having been dedicated and
the good influence in their meetings, said
"let us cheer and comfort our sisters who
are passing through severe ordeals and some
of whom are exiles at the present time, by
and bye the dark clouds will roll by.
	President Horne commended the Presi-
dents from the country who had traveled
fifteen or twenty miles to come to the Con-
ference and yet many Presidents who re-
sided in the City were not at the meeting or
came in late; thought we should be awake
to the importance of the work we had en-
gaged in and realize the many duties and
responsibilities of the times in which we
live, and never lose sight of the signs of the
times; and the indications are that we shall
need to secure our wheat and add to it, and
be prepared for any emergency that may
arise, that our children may not want for
bread; thought we should all take reproof
in a kind manner, look at the teachings and
reproofs given by our Savior, and may it
always have a good effect, let us accept it in
the spirit of kindness and profit thereby.
	Conference adjourned for three months to
be held at the same place. Singing, "O, ye
mountains high &c." Benediction by Mrs.
Elizabeth Stevenson.


30
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


