[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | August | Issue: 4 | Title: IN RURAL ENGLAND. | Author: Unknown]

IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XIX.
	The winter in London was superbly gay
beyond anything Clair or Lady Anna could
have imagined; Lady Walton entered into
the enjoyment with a zest scarcely consistent
after the protests she had made against
fashionable society, and her desire to do
something more useful, but she really
wished to initiate these young people into
the way and manner of the fashionable
world or as she herself expressed "the great
world," and all the ardor and vivacity of
her youth seemed to have returned as she
went from one place of amusement to
another, attended balls and parties and
made calls upon the great people.
	Clair was the favorite wherever the two
young men went, his foreign air and ac-
cent, his musical talent, and the mystery
that hung round him, which was a sort of
charm to the adoring mamma's and their
marriageable daughters,made him the centre
of attraction, or perhaps it was only the dif-
ference from other young men of distinc-
tion, the originality he possessed that was
the real cause. Lady Anna sometimes
felt she was more admired as Clair's sister,
than for her individual self. Yet Anna
was almost as much unlike other young
ladies as her brother was the generality of
young men.
	Miss Conway often thought what a
beautiful character her aunt Hilliard must
have been, to have such a lovely daughter
considering all the environments of her
cousin's girlhood,and knowing what a cold,
proud, haughty, arrogant man her uncle
Edward had been. He had his good points
she knew upon reflection and sometimes
she fancied he might have been different if
Anna's mother had lived to modify him.
Her principal fears for her cousin were in
Lady Walton's influence and yet she knew
that for Maitland's sake she would not wish
her to follow her lead exactly. Miss Con-
way scarcely ever attended Lady Anna to
any of the public balls, or receptions as
she always seemed de trop—for Lady Wal-
ton was very fond of playing the chaperone
to a lovely girl like Anna, and especially to
introduce her as the betrothed of her son.
	The winter passed quickly even to Miss
Conway for there were many things she
thoroughly enjoyed and she felt that her
stock of information was very greatly en-
larged. One can be always learning in
London, there is so much to see and to en-
gage one's attention, and Jane Conway was
one to make the best use of all that she
saw or heard, and she inwardly congratu-
lated herself that she would be much more
companionable as a wife, for having had
this opportunity. Although Miss Conway
had taken this London season quietly she
had really made more out of it than the

[Column 2]

others. Lady Anna had posed as a beauty
unconsciously to be sure, but it was a fact
nevertheless that it was her greatest at-
traction a sort of symmetrical beauty of face,
and figure. Clair was a favorite because he
could amuse and entertain company, he pos-
sessed to a great degree the faculty of mak-
ing others enjoy themselves without an
apparent effort, but Jane with her conscious-
ness of right and exalted ideas of personality,
and of cause and effect,looked on and learn-
ed from observation much that passed un-
noticed by her companions. Life was real
and earnest to her, and not the dream of a
summer day or the pastime of an idle hour.
She had sought to impress Anna with her
views until she came to London, and even
there gave her occasional glimpses of how
things appeared to her, but Anna seemed
not to comprehend life's great mysteries no
more than a child. Alas! for such women,
they often get the severest positive lessons
that enter like iron into the very soul, and
wound so deep that it is impossible for the
wound to heal however soothing the
remedies applied.
	Lady Anna's beauty attracted almost
universal attention, and was often the sub-
ject of conversation at fetes and receptions.
At a brilliant party given by one of the elite
of London, one evening when the season
was at its height, an elderly lady seated
near Miss Conway (who had gone by the
urgent persuasion of both Anna and Clair)
remarked to a gentleman on the opposite side
from Miss Conway, "Do you know Lady
Anna Hilliard, I mean the one in the soft
green costume dancing with Lord Simsbury
just there? The gentleman addressed re-
plied indifferntly that he had not that
pleasure and asked why she was so inter-
ested in watching her. "She reminds me
of an intimate friend of my girlhood, she
cannot be a relative I think for I have
made some inquiries about her, and yet she
has the very same eyes and her face is al-
together so like."
	"And what became of your friend, how
did you lose sight of her?"
	"She married suddenly I heard; some one
she had only known a short time, fell
desperately in love, and died soon after. I
was abroad at the time and never heard the
particulars, but by the bye I remember her
aunt with whom she lived had a son, who
was quite distinguished in literary circles,
he loved his cousin and was opposed to her
marriage, you would know him I am sure,
it would be in yonr time, let me see his
name was Harrison, Robert I think, I
wonder what became of him?"
	"Do you mean the Harrison who was a
member of Parliament for several years?"
Well I don't remember about that, but he
was very opinionated I think, he had
an opinion that the man this cousin was
going to marry was a downright villian,
and would break her heart." "The gentle-
man I allude to is in London now and by
Jove this romantic story of your friend has
interested me so much I'll call on him to-
morrow, and see if there can be any con-
nection between this young lady and the
one you fancy she resembles so strikingly."
"Depend upon it there is, I can see it in
every movement. See she comes this
way," and as the lady spoke Anna came
towards her consin who was so rapt in the
conversation that she was like one amazed.
She would not then repeat what she had
overheard but moved away and said aside to
Anna, "Do you know the lady who sat
next me or the gentlemen with her?"

[Column 3]

	It is Mrs. Devenish and the gentlemen is
Mr. Everhard I have not been introduced
but I have been told the lady is a most
amiable and attractive woman, and "blush-
ing deeply" that she greatly admires me
because of my resemblance to one of her
friends."
	"O, then you know what I have just
heard accidentally from her own lips."
	"To you, did she speak to you?" "No
child to the gentleman, who sat by her, his
name I think you said is Everhard, he is
going to trace the matter up through one
of his friends."
	"Then I shall know who I really do look
like, for no one has ever been able to tell
me."
	"Your father once said to me you were
very like your mother in temperament but
did not refer to features, I imagine this lady
must have your mother in mind, it came to
me as if by intuition, if I should prove to
be right in my idea, it will be a sort of
demonstration to me of the fact that I am
somewhat inspirational in my nature—and
I scarcely know whether that is a blessing
or the opposite, you know there are people
who know things before they happen; it is
either sensitiveness or susceptibility or some-
thing of the prophetic perhaps, and in our
day there are no prophets or prophetesses,
we only read of them."
	"My dear cousin," replied Anna, "this
is all Greek to me, I do not comprehend
your meaning, though I draw this inference
from it, that if it should have been my
mother whom I so much resemble that Mrs.
Devenish cannot keep her eyes off me, you
would begin to believe, you had the spirit
of the prophets—or was descended from one
of them."
	"Joking aside Anna, you ought to be
very glad if Mrs. Devenish can tell you
about your own mother for I think you once
said to me; you never heard of any relatives
on that side at all."
	"I suppose then we may expect a call
from Mr. Everhard if he finds out any-
thing worth hearing."
	"Possibly though I do not know that it
would follow." Here the ladies were in-
terrupted by Maitland who came to ask for
a dance, and Anna inquired whether he
knew Mrs. Devenish and would he intro-
duce her cousin and herself.
	"O, mamma knows her very well and
will be pleased to do the honor, but I
must not lose the chance of dancing in
this set, and the floor is fast filling," so
taking his arm, the two were soon gone,
and Miss Conway wandered into the library,
as she felt no inclination to dance; she was
looking backward to her childhood, and
trying to recall what her mother had told
her of her uncle and his affairs. She only
remembered her saying he was very rich and
could not forgive her for marrying a poor
man, and she had a faint recollection of his
neglect of home and duty. These reflections
together with the feeling she had of the
mysteriousness of presentiments, and what
some might term superstitions,absorbed her
so completely that she failed to notice what
other occnpants were in the room until at-
tracted by the conversation, hearing a
familar name spoken. She turned to look
and saw Mrs. Devenish talking to a lady
elegantly attired, and she distinctly heard
her say, "you will remember the Italian sing-
er whom we heard years ago and whose eyes
as well as her voice made so many men fall
dead in love with her, and all the ladies
jealous, O, I recollect so well my own


[Column 1]
﻿father raving about her wonderful black
eyes, she was the mother of young Hilliard,
there was a marriage it seems though no
one in England knew of it, she lived abroad,
but died very shortly; and the gossips say,
he was very glad, for he wonld not acknowl-
edge her in any way, though he had really
been over head and ears in love before the
ceremony took place.”
	‘‘Really Mrs. Devenish I do not even
remember the great singer, I suppose it was
very long ago, and one can’t always recall
the great people one has seen, even if they
were celebrated singers; but why are you so
interested in the young man and what do
you care about his mother.”
	‘‘It is not so much the young man himself
though he is very fine every way, charming
in fact, but the family, there’s a mystery
about them even to to the relative who ap-
pears in society as the chaperone. She is
not just like other people, so sedate and old-
fashioned, she watches over these young
people like a mother, indeed if all mothers
were as cautious, there would be fewer
matrimonial mistakes I fancy.’’
	‘‘I don’t think it matters much who or
what these people are, they have their own
part to play in life, and will probably not
come in contact with us in any way, it can
make no difference to us, one would think
you were looking out for a husband or wife
for a son or daughter, and going into the
merits of ancestry the way you talk of these
Hilliards.”
	‘‘O, no! not that and indeed it seems they
are all spoken for unless it be the young
man, and I’m not sure of him, in point of
fact there’s a question whether he can suc-
ceed to the title.”
	Jane wished she were out of the room,
she felt as if she were listening to a private
conversation, and yet it was unavoidable;
soon after the ladies left the library to-
gether and she was glad to make her escape;
she had never heard before that there was
doubt about Clair’s heirship, and as for his
mother she had pretty well guessed, that it
was a case of fascination and infatuation
and not of a lasting character. She de-
cided not to repeat even to Anna what she
had unwillingly over heard, as it would
very likely only excite her curiosity with-
out being of any benefit; she seemed des-
tined to obtain all the family secrets.
	A day or two after the ball referred to,
and when Jane and her cousin were quiet-
ly talking in their morning room, the ser-
vant announced visitors: ‘‘Mr. Everhard
and a friend of his from abroad.” The
girls looked at each other in silence, but
only for a second or two, then with her
usual firmness Miss Conway gave her
directions to the man in waiting. Ere long
the young ladies descended to the drawing-
room and the formalities of an introduction
were waived by the gentlemen saying, they
came on business, and proceeded forthwith
to inquire whether Lady Anna Hilliard
would like to hear something concerning
the family of her mother. “I see said the
gentleman who accompanied Mr. Everhard
that you are the living image of my cousin,
Clarice Courtenay, and as she was the most
lovable of women pardon me if I seem to
speak familiarly to you; as it is now about
twenty years since I met her last, and hav-
ing been much in foreign parts I had no
idea until my friend here informed me of
your living in London, that my cousin had
left any offspring.  I was so thoroughly
astonished by the intelligence, that I re-
paired at once to Sir Edward Hilliard’s

[Column 2]
lawyers, and ascertained the truth, and
made bold to call; it is an unwarrantable
intrusion, but pardon the eagerness on my
part, and remember, rising to go, that here-
after you have a friend and protector in
your mother’s cousin, Rob. Harrison."


27
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


