[Vol5 | October 1918 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Current Topics | Title: Current Topics James H. Anderson]

Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. The Fourth government liberty loan is set for September 28, and at least two more loans will come in 1919. Peru is having war at home, in the form of an insurrection which broke out in August. Hailstorms in August destroyed a considerable acreage of crops in Montana. The Fruit Crop in Utah is reported much smaller in 1918 than in the previous year. Prohibition in the United States has been deferred for the present but is promised on July 1, 1919. Sugar in the United States went up in price and down in quantity after September 1. Americans in large force were landed in Siberia in August, in connection with British and Japanese troops. Switzerland was having serious trouble in August, between labor organizations and government officials there. Automobiles for pleasure riding are to be barred to a great extent in the United States after Jan. 1, 1919. Blood continues to flow freely in Russia, from executions by the soldiers and workmen's government there, called Bolsheviki. "Thread Cards." owing to the scarcity of flax and linen, are likely to become a rule in the United States in the near future. Russia has declared war on the United States, at least that considerable portion thereof which is controlled by the Bolsheviki government. Japan had food riots in August, in which more than a quarter of a million of the population engaged, and over 300 persons were killed. Two American congressmen in France, in August, were refused permission to visit the British front for the reason that "they talked too much." Moral Cleanliness in the American army in France is the subject of a general order issued in August, by Gen. Pershing. The necessity for such an order arouses thoughtful comment. Draft age in the United States was extended for army purposes in August, to all men over 18 years and under 46 years of age on September 14, 1918. Sermons on the wickedness of war have been superseded in the churches throughout the United States by sermons on the unrighteousness of peace under prevailing conditions. German submarines in American waters in August did material damages to shipping along the Atlantic coast, but no American transports were caught. Government operation of railways showed a loss of $290,000,000 the first six months of 1918, as compared with private operation for a like period previously. Great Britain and France now have plenty of food to carry them over to the next harvest, according to the report of the U. S. food administrator, made in August. One hundred I. W. W. leaders were convicted in the United States court in Illinois, in August, for actions adverse to the government interests in the present war. Our own Utah lawyer. Frank Nebeker, conducted the historic trial. Francisco Villa, Mexican bandit, is again active. During August, his followers attacked two railway trains in Mexico, and killed more than 100 persons, men, women, and children. Jacob H. Gallinger, United States Senator from New Hampshire, died in August. He was a consistent and persistent friend to the people of Utah when they needed friends. Tanks in war seem to be comparatively more effective than airplanes, taking into consideration the war bulletins during the Entente allies' victories in France in August, although both are essential.
CURRENT TOPICS. 587 The wheat crop in Utah, at one time reported to be much larger than usual, was said by government officials, in August, to be but 95 per cent of the average. Insurance companies in the United States are protesting against government acquirement of private industries as "a species of slavery to the state akin to the system in vogue in Germany." Mexicans and American troops engaged in battle at Nogales, Arizona, on August 27, in which three Americans were killed and five wounded; the Mexican loss in killed and wounded was estimated at nearly one hundred. Street car fares in Salt Lake City were increased by action of the State public utilities commission, in August, to 6 cents, with a provision that 20 tickets could be purchased in advance for one dollar. Jerusalem and Bagdad both have been cleaned up and made comparatively sanitary, by the British military authorities, the improvement being such that the inhabitants of those cities are greatly averse to being returned to Turkish rule. Sunday automobile riding in that part of the United States east of the Mississippi river was restricted materially by a government order issued in August, to conserve the use of gasoline, for war purposes. The American army carried to France the past few months truly "saved the day" to France and Great Britain in the present war, during August, and the armies of those nations joined in victorious attacks upon the Teutonic armies. Lieut. Schweiger, the German officer who sank the Lusitania, was taken prisoner in the Mediterranean in August, by two French patrol boats which sank his submarine just after it had torpedoed a British transport. Investigation into the airplane manufacture scandals in the United States, by a Senate report in August, showed an expenditure of a billion and a half dollars, with little return. Further investigation has been taken over by the department of justice. 
 A NEW REVENUE LAW, to be enacted in the United States in October or November, applies a necessary increase in taxes which will increase to the consumer the price of all the luxuries and most of the necessaries of life. Senator Thomas of Colorado announced in the Senate on August 26 that there were no rights to be allowed in this country in the present war "except those of fundamental origin such as trial by jury." Rather a slender thread on which to hang a national constitution. The American field army in France was organized and unified in August. It is under command of Gen. J. J. Pershing, and is chiefly established in the Toul sector  that is, the portion of the battle line in France next to Switzerland. The German army in France continued to suffer defeat from the Entente allies during August, being forced back to near the Hindenburg line, held last March, with a prospect of continued defeats before it during September. Briant H. Wells, son of the late President Daniel H. Wells, of Salt Lake City, has been promoted to brigadier general in the United States army. He is well known in regular army circles as a skilful and capable officer. Spain has become bolder with Germany since the latter has experienced severe reverses in the war, and has notified the imperial government of Germany that she will seize a German vessel for every Spanish ship destroyed by a U-boat. Economic war on Germany, when the present war ends, received much discussion in American newspapers during August; but economic adjustment in this and allied countries after this war is a more immediate and momentous question to the people of this country. Zionists, who obtained a favorable response from Great Britain and France to have Palestine designated as a national home for the Jews, in August petitioned members of the American Congress to have this nation assent to the designation. A Monument to Gen. A. W. Doniphan was unveiled in Richmond, Mo., on July 29. Gen. Doniphan is the officer who refused to obey the orders of his superior officer, Gen, Lucas, when the latter ordered him to execute the Prophet Joseph Smith and other "Mormon" leaders at Far West, in 1838.