[Vol5 | October 1918 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial]

EDITORIAL . Motto  Charity Never Faileth  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Vol. V. OCTOBER, 1918. No. 10. LIFE AND THE SCHOOL. Dedicated to the College Class of 1918, in Brigham Young University. Not long since I looked into the faces of a Ready to hundred collegiate graduates, robed with Grapple with symbolic caps and gowns, and a-flutter with Life. rolls of engraved parchment, setting forth the degrees and honors with which their alma mater had endowed them. Thought leaped across the long pathway of their school years, and pictured the graded forms, the yearly procession of advancement, the tabulated system and regulated order which marked the hours and subjects. Eagerly they had striven, the visible symbols of achievement always ready at the season's end, and now, their school course ended, with pomp and circumstance they triumphed over youth and time, ready at last to grapple with life itself. Ready, did I say? Human limitations provide periods and symbols for immature minds, but practical men and women learn soon from contact with the infinite. Life has no graduation but death. Honors Life's are unused tools; rewards are shrouded in Graduation. the gall of disappointments; results are invisible to tear-blinded eyes, and real achievement never halts for stated periods of self-glorification, nor 
 hears aught but a neighbor's bitter criticism, or the inner deprecating voice urging to a rarer effort, a more perfect result. One finite experience ends in the whirling center of a more turgid maelstrom, and peace is too often found to be but the price of sordid selfishness. Youth longs for tabulated results, listens hungrily for the triumphal blast of recognized achievement. The parade of power, the satisfying symbols of superior merit, are long coveted by finite immaturity. Yet life plunges her youthful school graduates at once into ice-cold trenches, baptizes them lustily with gaseous fires, and only the rarely brave, the spiritually clear-visioned, recover balance, and carry on triumphantly till the death graduation. Eternity in mortality  that is the lesson life The Lesson spreads before the properly matriculated of Life. life-student. When the college doors close upon such graduates, the sheepskins will be hidden away, while sinewy brown or lily-white hands grasp musket, grenade, wheel, plow, pen, scalpel or ferrule; broom, needle, red-crossed cap and apron, cradle-bar or washboard  and trained minds will con the difficult lessons of daily unrewarded toil, while youth and maiden go over life's top, hand in hand or single file and alone, to face the enemy of men's souls and to wring death's final and only graduation. God sends his Spirit at times to comfort us with silent proof of his sweet approval. Life holds before our hopeful eyes this goal, that achievement; but when our weary steps have gained the summit, our hands have clasped the symbol of achievement, the pain of accomplishment has been so great, the alluring summits up and beyond are so far, so unattainable that we cast aside the present result as worthless toys upon life's shore, and hold out reaching hands for greater rewards, more definite results. With maturer apprehension, and wiser apperContent and ceptive powers, life-students will learn to be Courageous content and courageous, no matter where Providence may grade them. On the gory field of noisy battles, in the dim halls of patient research, in the crowded mart of business strife, on the long slopes of ripening fields, in the breaking toil of typing office-work, beside the quiet loom of daily domestic labor, poised minds, ripe intelligences, will find the hidden symbols of passing victories over selfishness, and will sense the mighty angelic tabulation. Up from the graves of all yesterdays let Let Angels morning angels of hope and faith arise to acof Hope and company each today with shield and buckler Faith Arise. of willing strength. As the sound of striking bell and marching rhythm fades with all EDITORIAL. 591 lesser and greater school memories, let the invisible call of instant duty, the interrupted march of regular habit bring conviction that only God may matriculate our souls and only eternity encompass our commencement. "TWO THOUSAND GOSPEL QUOTATIONS." Seldom have the Latter-day Saints been furnished with a more comprehensive guide to scriptural passages and spiritual help than is given in a book just published called, Two Thousand Gospel Quotations, from the Bible, Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price, compiled by Henry H. Rolapp. So simple is the arrangement, so crowded are the references, that it becomes at once a clarifying medium to students of the gospel. We hope the sisters of the Relief Society will avail themselves of this excellent work by placing at least one copy of it in each Relief Society library. It is on sale at the Deseret News Book Store. "TOBACCO AND HUMAN EFFICIENCY." The Magazine is delighted to recommend this book on tobacco, just issued by Dr. Frederick J. Pack, our own Latter-day Saint scientist and teacher. The Church authorities have published this book, and it is desired that every home shall possess a copy of the life-giving facts and statistics found in its pages. The deadly evil of tobacco should be familiarly known in all its scientific aspects to every mother and grandmother in Israel. This book, Tobacco and Human Efficiency, can also be purchased from the Deseret News Book Store. EXCHANGE BUREAU. We wish our friends who have dried fruit or dried vegetables to dispose of. would make use of this free bureau, that those who are desirous of securing same may know where to apply.