Happenings By Anme Wells Cannon SEPTEMBER—Nature richin color, melody and fruitage, o'ershadowed by fleecy clouds warns to labor and to love. How beautiful are life's lessons if only we were wise enough to understand the loving kindness of the Lord. MADAM MINISTER Ruth Bryan Owen shows her pronounced femininity by retaining in her official and literary work the name under which she gained her distinction, only using the name and title of Captain Boerge Rhode to whom she was married last July, for court and social circles. UEEN MARIE of Rumania with her daughter, Ileana, Princess of Hapsburg, is vacationing in England, her native land. A DARING Texas girl pointed out to the self-sufficient Bernard Shaw, a mistake in history data in his Saint Joan. He acknowledged the error, but wondered why she took twelve years to tell him. Probably no one else dared and she was scarcely old enough. MELIA EARHART, America's favorite sportswoman, has been presented with a trophy in recognition of her outstanding solo flight from Honolulu to the mainland in 1935, by the Woman's International Association of Aeronautics. Not having any more oceans to cross, Miss Earhart is now engaging in research work, studying human reactions to flying. MBS. VIOLET VAN DER ELST, wealthy English woman will open a campaign this month in America against capital punishment for which she is prepared to spend a fortune. She believes in severe punishment for the guilty but not in "legalized murder." HELEN STEPHENS recaptured — the women's 100-meter sprint crown for America at the World's Olympic in Berlin this summer. ELSIE JANIS, noted actress, has decided to give all her worldly possessions for charity. She wants to do something worth while before she dies and is especially interested in the poor and child welfare. A WOMEN'S dress museum has been opened in London. The collection comprises about 1500 dresses of every style and texture. There are dresses worn by queens, professional beauties, and peasants. Truly a study in periods for the stylists. NORMA SHEARER as Juliet, has been called the miracle of Hollywood. Shakespeare's tragic love story has been made to live again by her magic art. MBS. LIZZIE THOMAS ED- *" WARD, one of the leading singers and conductors of women's choirs in Utah, died last month. Mrs.