Pin Money or Better By Sylvia R. Grant many women have needed money, not only for pins, but to help meet the demands of the butcher, the baker and the candlestick maker. Even when it is not absolutely necessary for a woman to make money, there is ever so much satisfaction in earning enough to buy silver candlesticks instead of just ordinary ones. In the "good old days," as they are called for some obscure reason, a woman had two means of making money at home. She could take in washing or she could take in sewing. Usually only dire necessity drove her to doing either. Nowadays there are dozens of different ways to earn money for either necessities or extras and it is considered smart to be able to do so. Some of the methods described below require special training or natural talent. In some instances the work is easy to do but difficult to secure. All, however, are actual cases of work done by women who live within a two mile radius of my door. What they have done, you can too, if you want to badly enough. Da the past few years ) T is quite natural that women money earners should turn to the preparation of food as a likely means to their end and it is usually advisable to specialize in one particular thing. My next-door-but-one neighbor sells as many of her excellent cakes as she cares to make. Another woman makes chicken pies and rolls and her son delivers them to all parts of the city. Mrs. B. Has a high pressure cooker which she operates in her own home during the vegetable canning season. The most versatile cook of my acquaintance will prepare anything from canapes to turkeys and I have known her to send out half a dozen of the latter, complete with dressing and gravy, on Thanksgiving day. HE tea room business has flourished greatly the past few years since so many women prefer to do their entertaining where some one else can have the work and worry of it. A large home is not so essential for the venture as are attractive table appointments and good food. HE extensive use of artificial flowers for corsages and decoration in the home has opened up an interesting and sometimes very profitable field for the enterprising woman. There are places in every city. Where one can go and learn to make flowers and if they are attractive enough they are readily sold through the department stores. "THE knitted dresses, which have lately become so popular, open up still another avenue for the woman who is clever with her fingers. The stores where the yarn is sold give instruction for knitting dresses and sweaters and can sometimes give orders for them. Hemstitching offers a quicker means of making extra dollars but requires the purchase of a special machine. F a pleasant, persuasive voice and a one-party line are among a woman's assets she can use them to advantage doing advertising by tele- PIN MONEY OR BETTER | phone. Coal, facials and magazine subscriptions are among the items which have been offered for sale to me lately by this means. Such work is usually done on a commission basis so persistence and sales ability count. ANOTHER type of work in the advertising line is addressing envelopes and this is one of the few kinds of work that does not require special ability or training. Because of this very fact it is rather difficult to obtain. Only one woman of my acquaintance has gone in for kodak finishing and she has worked up a splendid business. She equipped a dark room in the basement of her house at very little cost and develops films at odd hours in between her regular household tasks. HE basement also serves as a workshop for Mrs. S. Who makes new furniture out of old—at least, so it appears. Her clients bring her all sorts of odd pieces of furniture and by dint of much sandpapering, enameling and decorating she turns out attractive and harmonious sets. She paints new furniture as well as old and can even do a bit of upholstering if necessary. She learned how to do the work and much about color effects and decorating from booklets furnished free by the paint companies. GIFT shop has proved a good source of income for another clever woman who happened to have a room she could spare for the purpose. She makes such items as aprons, handkerchiefs and handpainted place cards herself and buys others. OR the person whose talents lie in working with children rather than flowers and furniture, the 573 nursery school offers excellent opportunities. Suitable space and equipment are necessary to make this venture successful. The children usually range from two to five years in age and often are cared for during the entire day. In such case they are provided with lunch and beds for napping. Training courses in nursery school work can be studied by correspondence. HE tutoring of backward or subnormal children can be done to better advantage in the privacy of a home than anywhere else and sometimes proves very lucrative work. The woman who attempts this, however, should have both excellent training and ability to properly handle such cases. ARING for invalids or convalescent patients at home also pays well but is likely to require more of a woman's time than any of the other work discussed here. And iast is woman's time honored job of baby tending. If a woman feels that she hasn't the talent and can't get the equipment for some of the other work mentioned here she can always manipulate a safety pin and heat a bottle to the right temperature. I felt like I had made a golden discovery when I found a woman close to town who would care for my infant while I shopped and went to a movie. I discovered her through a sign in her window which read, "I'll tend the babe." It sounded like it would be homey and friendly beyond the sign. It was. ND speaking of signs, remember that advertising pays. Whether you hemstitch, finish films or make pies, don't neglect to tell the world about it.