Points of View By Eva Wangsgard VERYBODY is alright from k his own point of view," was a statement my father often used in explaining some action we could not understand. It is, of course, as true as most generalities and explains much that is difficult to comprehend. If people in a misunderstanding would endeavor to get the opponent's point of view, the difficulty would be very easily cleared up. That is another principle which the children have effectively proved for me. It began this way: For many years we left the townhouse each June and moved into a little old log cabin in the valley for the summer months. This cabin was more than sixty years old, made of logs squared by the broad ax. There was, attached at the rear, a lean-to of rough hewn timber. Water and other weathering agents had stained the grains in varying tints of brown, making pictures more or less distinct as the frost pictures used to be on the old farmhouse windows where I was reared. It was the children's habit, when they were ill or just resting from more active play, to lie on the screen porch bed and point out these pictures and comment on them. One day an intense dispute arose between two of them regarding a large dark brown stain. The girl insisted that it resembled a beautiful lady as you have heard people insist that they see a lady m the moon to one who cannot. The boy could see only a big ogre from a fairy tale. When the argument had progressed far enough to become annoying to the middle child he said, "Which one are you discussing?" They pointed it out to him, each explaining the merits of his, or her, point of view. "Oh," laughed Eldo, "that is my monkey. See here are his arms clinging to the limb. Here's his tail. Here's his funny face." They could all see the monkey and were very much amused by him. I thought, "How much like experiences in real life that is!" Those are, perhaps, the three commonest points of view. Let us say worry is the ogre among grown-up points of view, beauty, or seeing the blessing in disguise, is the beautiful lady, and a sense of humor is the monkey. How many near tragedies could be averted if the victim just could see the funny side, the monkey in the tree, as it were. After that, when an argument ensued among our flock, I often said, "Look more closely. Isn't there a monkey hidden somewhere?" There usually is, you know. It is usually easier to see the funny side of any disagreeable occurrence than to see the blessing in disguise. Either of them will slay the ogre, worry, easily. When we differ with some friend, next time, let us try to see his point of view and, perhaps, then we will agree with him; or failing that, perhaps, we can both see the monkey in the tree somewhere." THE FAITHFUL CLOCK By Ella J. Coulam I have a faithful household friend, Who serves me loyally— He counts out all the moments And prods me endlessly. When I am late, he rouses me And urges me to hurry; But for him, my reluctant feet Would cause me grief and worry. When I return again at night And hasten to unlock, The first to greet me at the door Is the tick of my faithful clock. Happiness Through Service Your Church University is dedicated to the principle that the highest happiness comes from efficient and faithful service. Therefore training for making a livelihood goes hand in hand with spiritual development: The aim is to develop both the will and the power to serve greatly. WELL-ROUNDED EDUCATION 1600 courses in 34 departments Colleges of Applied Science, Arts and Sciences, Commerce, Education, and Fine Arts. Graduate School.