Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1891 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" REAL AND IDEAL O, happy childhood, bright with faith and hope, Enchantment dwells within thy rosy bowers, And rainbow tints gild all within thy scope, And youth sits lightly on a bed of flowers, His cup of happiness just brimming o'er, Unconscious of what life has yet in store. Though all along life's weary, toilsome way, We meet with disappointments hard to bear, Yet strength is given equal to our day, And joy is oft'nest mixed with pain and care; But let us not grow weary in well-doing, Still persevere, the upward path pursuing. —E. B. W. THE IRRIGATION CONGRESS: | Extracts from President Cannon's Address: We have kept from monopolizing the land and been wifling to have it distributed in small holdings, so that every man might have a foothold. I believe that I do not overstate the truth when I say that in no part of these United States is there a population containing so many people living on their own lands and owning their own houses as in Utah Territory. In 1853, or thereabouts there was scarcely enough water in City Creek to water the gardens of Salt Lake City, and it was thought then that we had reached the utmost limit of our supply. But it is a fact that our water has increased in almost every stream throughout all these mountains. I believe there is a kind Providence that watches over man, that wherever man goes Providence is there to aid in his efforts. |: MEMORY'S GUIDANCE Over the moonlit, misty fields, In freedom I have roamed tonight, Review'd at will old by-gone scenes, Time carried away in its flight. Night had hushed the shadowy earth, Soft fleecy clouds curtained the sky, Birds to their nests had all gone forth, And the winds breathed scarcely a sigh. —L. M. Hewlings COLONIA DIAZ, MEXICO: We were organized by Bishop William Derby Johnson, Jr. On the sth of January, 1888, with six officers and twenty-four members. This was in the early days of this settlement, when we were living in tents and tabernacles like Abraham, Isaac and Jacob of old. Now our Society has increased in numbers and we have been steadily growing in experience, and love of our pleasing labors, that have brought to us so much benefit and profit. We number now, officers and members, seventy-seven, and our average attendance is forty.—Ada A. Earl Page 674 AUDE ADAMS, seventy-eight, contributed for the exhibit of "Wonderful Moments in the New York Theater," the "diamond and emerald" crown she wore in "A Kiss for Cinderella," her 1917 farewell Broadway performance. Miss Adams made her dramatic debut (as an infant in arms) in the old Salt Lake Theater, with her mother, Utah actress, Annie Kiskadden. ILLICENT CAREY McINTOSH, dean of Barnard College, is the wife of a busy pediatrician, Dr. Rustin McIntosh, and mother of five children. With good management, strength, and family co-operation, she is successful at all three jobs. The family spend their week-ends at home and often go all together on business trips or vacations. Her understanding husband approves of her career. RS. LEONARD ROBINS of Scipio, Utah, and her husband, celebrated their diamond wedding last April 28. He is ninety-five, and she, ninety-three. 'They may be the oldest married couple in the nation. "In seventy-five years, I have never called him anything worse than sweetheart," says Marie Nielsen Robins of her husband.