LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in December. SPIRITUAL CHARACTER BUILDING IN CHILDHOOD. Introductory. Ethics is the relationship of man to man; religion is the relationship of man to his God. With this definition we pass to our discussion of this subject. Latter-day Saint mothers realize the importance of teaching their children faith and of developing the spiritual character of their children. Rut how shall it be done, when shall it be done, and by whom shall it be done? "The time to begin training a child," as Oliver Wendell Holmes once remarked, "is one hundred years before the child is born." which implies the necessity for righteous marriage, and wise choice, that we may give our children good spiritual beginnings. Some mothers who are not born
ill the Church, and others who realize that teaching is, after all, something more than book learning or formal advice, and who inquire eagerly for methods to impart faith and the other spiritual virtues to their children. This lesson concerns itself in answering these questions. When to Begin Teaching. As soon as the baby is born the atmosphere of piety, love and faith, or of indifference, and utter disregard of heavenly things affects the childish mind and spirit. If baby sees father and mother upon their knees, with the older children about the hearthstone repeating earnest prayers before retiring or upon awakening, instinctively the baby climbs down from its mother's lap, puts up its hands, and thus begins his spiritual training. If baby hears mother tell polite lies, or listens to father using violent or unclean language, baby's bad ethical training has begun. By Whom Shall the Training Be Given? First by the righteous father and the wise mother, for these two personify and represent to the baby's mind all that he may know or grasp for some years to come concerning his heavenly parents. Not only these, but older brothers and sisters, grandparents, all relatives and friends of the family take part in this direct and indirect spiritual teaching. Habit. The strongest force in making and unmaking character is habit. If children are taught through habit to pray, to speak reverently, to repent and he forgiven generously, to exercise faith in the healing ordinances of the Priesthood, to ask for heavenly favors as they do for earthly favors, they will be assisted by the most powerful factor in their future spiritual development. Faith Development. When baby is sick, use the consecrated oil, pray over him, and let him pray for you when you ar .sick. Teach him through little stories, from the Scriptures and from your own life experiences, about our Father who lives in heaven and who sends his angels to protect and guide us upon this earth. Draw word pictures culled from scriptural sources of the glories and beauties of heaven. How much easier and better to fill the craving of the awakening mind for wonder stories, with true pictures of the wonders of God both in heaven and on earth, than to repeat the degenerate myths and legends of Pagan nations. Foolish mothers who try to feed their children with husks of false tradition called "Folk Stories," are poisoning the spiritual development of their children at its fount. An occasional fairy story may be told a child who is old enough to understand that it is simply a fairy story, but the ancient and modern scriptures are too full of true and wonderful stories to allow Latter-day Saint mothers to dip in the muddy stream of folk lore for such material. 
 Repentance. Quick, generous forgiveness must be offered the child who repents, lest he become hardened and repent no more. When children are at their play is the most fruitful time for spiritual lessons to be given and teachings to sink into their souls. After quarreling, with your arms about them, persuade them to repent and to forgive each other. Side by side with this comes mercy and justice. Justice is taught by parents being just, and mercy should lie shown when little ones inadvertently destroy or make other mistakes. Inculcating Reverence. Bow yourself with reverent head at prayer time and baby will instinctively imitate you. Some naturally ultra-independent spirits, even in babyhood, refuse to respond to this reverent spirit. P.righam Young once picked up a saucy, noisy baby of two years, in the midst of his own family prayers, spanked the ch:ld soundly and sat her down in her mother's chair. That was the end of coofusion at prayer time in his family. When baby is taken to the meetinghouse, take the Sacrament yourself with reverence without hurry; and, with the look of your eye, as you gaze seriously at the baby, inculcate a reverent spirit in your child. Tt may be necessary at times to tell baby, before you go into the meeting or after you come out, about the house being the Lord's house, and about the angels who are there and who are disturbed when ch:ldren play or are noisy therein; sometimes sound chastisement may be needed by the child if he refuses to respond to this sympathetic teaching. The Love of God. The love of God can be instilled into the hearts of the smallest child if the voice of the mother and her own full heart conveys to his receptive mind the impression of her own exquisite adoration of the Savior and our Father in heaven. Too much of our religious explanation is made to children, with indifferent voices and flippant tones. The eye and the Up are better teachers many times than the word or even the thought. Love God yourself, mother, cultivate worship and reverence, through prayer and striving, and through the intimate daily contact with his spirit, and it will be much eas:er for your children to receive that heavenly influence into their own lives. Teach the baby to love his father by refraining from one word of criticism of that father in the presence of the baby, at least. Tt is as necessary for a child to have a love for his father instilled ait is for him to imbibe the love of God within his soul. If he reveres and loves his earthly father, it will be easy to reverence and worship God. All of the attributes of our Father can be dwelt upon as occasion may arise for that lesson to be taught. Reliance and Trust in God. Older children should acquire a reliance and trust in our heavenly Father through answer to prayer, and. as always, through the consciously exerted influence of a wise mother. In teaching this trust to children awaken also their reasoning power to understand that all prayers could not be answered  some desires might be unwise  and children must learn as they grow older to let the issue of their prayer remain in our Father's hands. This lesson is even more important than the lesson of simple faith. Indirect Teaching. The best lessons come to the human heart through indirect teaching. This does not mean that the wise parents must never give direct counsel or instruction. The difficulty too often is that they give too much. The indirect method consists of hints picked up from example and unstudied tr.lk, and in answering questions rather than in preaching sermons. When a child asks a question, the parents should answer that question though the heavens fall. No matter how busy or how tired or overtaxed the mother may be, the childish mind is then open to receive direct that inspiration or information  which would be too often rejected or not understood if the occasion were forced upon the child at some other time. Another form of indirect teaching is the conversation in the family at meal times, in the evening, or at hurried moments when we are off our guard. Indeed, a mother and grandmother must never be off guard in the presence of children. That is the price they pay for.successful parenthood. Sabbath Day Teaching. Always set aside a few hours on the Sabbath Day in which to give direct spiritual teaching to your children of all ages. Let the older ones, or yourself read Bible and Book of Mormon stories; persuade grandfather or grandmother to tell the children stories of how they received the gospel; of their pioneer trials and travels; of instances of healing and other faith-promoting stories. Purchase a Royal Chart, which is a collection of Bible pictures, and Reynolds' Story of the Book of Mormon, and use these and similar helps, especially for Sunday use. For the little children, arrange a sand-table, and with toothpicks, tips of trees, etc., show them the plan of the temple in Jerusalem, or of the temple in your district. Make the Sabbath the children's visiting day with father and mother and grandfather and grandmother, with the distinct purpose of making the children better acquainted with their heavenly Parents and our heavenly Home. Comfort in Trials. Babies have their trials, and wise comfort should be administered to babies and children. Teach them by example to go at once to Father in heaven with their little trials and requirements. Yourself kneel down with them and word a prayer with them that the Lord may help them in ordinary affairs, for instance, to get a new pair of shoes, or be healed of a toothache, or to win the love of a playmate, or to go upon a picnic. 
 If you have kept open this blessed channel between yourself and your little ones and heaven, it will be easy for them after they are married and settled in life to come to mother or father in times of stress and struggle for a united word of prayer for heavenly help. If your children have learned faith in God and something of the beauty of heaven, when death clutches the heartstrings you may hear your baby ask over and over, as I did, "Tell the Lord to come, take me up a star shine." What greater joy can be a mother's than to know as her children emerge from the pitfalls of childhood that heaven is a reality, that the Savior is an everpresent help in time of need, and that our earthly homes with their imperfect conditions are, after all, types of the heavenly haven which will some day be ours. Let teachers frame their own questions for this lesson. TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS. We earnestly request your hearty cooperation in securing subscriptions for the new Magazine of 1918. We very much desire an early canyass of the wards by ward agents, that the trouble may be averted which has occurred the last two years, that we may have the proper number issued for new subscribers for 1918. Subscribe early and avoid missing the first copies. Agents call on stake presidents for blanks, and receipt books. RELIEF SOCIETY BUREAU OF INFORMATION  AND EXCHANGE. A bureau of information  with headquarters in this office has been authorized by the General Board of the Relief Society between stake and ward organizations who desire to exchange or sell food products and supplies. Any stake, ward or individual for instance who may have a surplus of dried or bottled fruit which they would like to sell or exchange may write to us, stating what they have and what they desire to receive in exchange. Where possible such sale or exchange will be effected. We could not undertake to receive and store supplies, but will be the medium of written exchange between those who desire this service. Moreover, we will publish such items as may be practicable in our Home Science department. We shall carry this same exchange in the daily papers in the city and in the State. Address the Relief Society Magazine.