[Vol11 | November 1924 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field
By Amy Brown Lyman
European Mission
Mrs. Eliza W. Tadje, president of the Relief Society work in the Swiss and German mission, writes to the General Board as follows:
"I am very happy to report the progress of the Basel branch Relief Society of this mission, and I believe we have every reason to be proud of this organization because of the wonderful work
BASEL BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE SWISS AND GERMAN MISSION
that is being done. The society is fully organized with Minna Seyfarth as president, and Luise Zimmer and Mathilde Weissenberger, first and second counselors respectively; Else Arm, secretary-treasurer; Helene Dreesen, organist, and Marie Haas, chorister. Sister Seyfarth with her associates have the love and respect of all members and friends of the organization and are working harmoniously together.
"The lessons as outlined in the Relief Society Magazine are rather difficult for our new members and friends. Sister Emma Ray McKay has selected a number of lessons most suitable for us from the various Relief Society courses of study, which have been translated into the German language, and are now being used throughout the Swiss and German mission. These lessons are mostly on social service and theology, and it is something
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 583
that our Saints haven't had in late years, if at all. According to reports recently received from the various branches the class work is now very successful.
"It is our aim to reach the hearts of all Latter-day Saints and to impress upon their souls the necessity of keeping the Lord's commandments. By doing so our spirits become richer and our influence greater. We are also putting forth an effort to impress these good people with the necessity of setting good examples before the world, and I believe we are meeting with appreciable success. Relief Society women here are unselfish and have the real spirit of the work. During the last year they have not only worked for their own branch but when conditions in Germany were not the best, this society has done its bit in relieving the suffering of the poverty stricken Saints.
"Personally, I am indeed grateful to my heavenly Father for the privilege of being in the mission field together with my husband. I have learned to love the Saints and our dear missionaries who are laboring so diligently to spread the gospel message. God bless the parents of these elders; their loved ones have reason to rejoice because of the wonderful work they are accomplishing."
South African Mission
Mrs. Magdalen Sessions, president of the Relief Society work of the South African mission, sends the following very interesting letter with her reports:
"Having just returned from a very interesting trip throughout the mission, I thought you would be pleased to know that the Relief Society work in South Africa is steadfastly continuing. I visited three of the four organizations which were begun three years ago, Mowbray, Kimberley, and Johannesburg, and in each of these cities the meetings are held regularly and the work of the organization is being felt and appreciated in the branches. While I was at Johannesburg the Relief Society held a bazaar which we considered very successful. The proceeds from the sale of work amounted to $200, of which $150 was given to the building fund of the new Johannesburg chapel. The women are planning another sale to be held in about six months, for the same purpose. The sisters at Kimberley and Mowbray also contributed work and articles for the bazaar and are all interested in the building of the new church. The little organization in Mowbray also gave a successful bazaar recently which enabled them to contribute $50 towards the new Johannesburg chapel. I think the value received from their effort was the harmonious work that was done by the sisters, as well as the amount of work and the funds raised, for much was learned along the lines of cooperation as well as sewing, etc. The whole neighborhood surprised 
 the Relief Society by their willingness to patronize the bazaar, and they are now asking for another. As you look at our reports I am sure our organizations will seem very small to you, but they are a beginning, and have continued steadily now for two years. Our report of average attendance does not include visitors, some of whom take an active part, but do not wish to be enrolled. One thing that keeps our organizations small is that as soon as possible Saints leave for America. However, the Relief Societies are appreciated by the various branches for they look after the poor and also help out financially. I have tried to adapt the Magazine lessons to our conditions but I find it very hard as all here are so very new in the gospel; we have been very successful, however, with the history of the Church, and lessons of that order which do not need so much previous information. Where necessary, the elders conduct the lessons. Since the elders have been re-established at Port Elizabeth, they have been so successful in making converts and friends. That we thought it the right time or organize the Relief Society there, for we have found that the united efforts of the sisters add much to the strength of any branch. The president, Mrs. Edward Peek, and her co-workers, are all energetic and progressive women and I hope that we shall have a live and useful organization. Most of them are new members of the Church, and the elders will conduct the class work for a while. The lesson meetings will alternate with sewing classes. They have an efficient needlewoman as instructor in sewing. ' "Incidentally, we enjoyed a very pleasant experience while away. I preceded President Sessions to: Johannesburg, in order to get better acquainted with the sisters and to help with the bazaar. President Sessions came up in time for conference, and after our work was finished Dr. And Mrs. Williams, who are friends of ours from Cape Town, met us at Johannesburg and we made the return journey to Cape Town in their motor car?a distance of two thousand miles. We visited the native territory and tribes of the Zulus, Pondos, Fingos, and the Red Kaffirs. Every minute was extremely interesting and the trip was a rare opportunity for there is no way of seeing the people in their native state except by motor. We visited their huts, ate meals out of their community pots, and camped among them. European visitors are so rare that many of the children screamed with fright and ran for shelter. "It is a great inspiration to receive the Magazine and communications from the General Board. I cannot tell you how happy I shall be to be back in Zion and to be in direct touch with the Church at home. It only takes such an opportunity of comparison as I have had, to make me perfectly sure that those NOTES FROM THE FIELD 585 directing the work of the Church are inspired of the Lord. We are enjoying our work here and find much in Africa to keep us busy and therefore happy." Bear River Stake: For the past three years the Relief Societies of the Bear River stake have been holding district conferences throughout the stake. They have just completed these group conferences for the year 1924. They feel that these meetings are probably the most pleasant and profitable ones of the year. There are three and four wards in each conference, and by changing the place of meeting each year, all the wards are given an opportunity to entertain visiting societies. It has been the means of getting better acquainted and of promoting harmony and greater friendship among the Relief Society women. The exchanging of ideas and working plans, and the hearing of each other's problems and conditions, have been helpful to all. The social hour following the meetings has been most enjoyable. The meetings have been attended by the stake officers and most of the board members, and have been favored with the presence of bishops and other brethren, all of which has been greatly appreciated. Maternity bundles have been placed in every ward Relief Society, and all are provided with an enameled tin box that may be kept securely locked, away from dust or other contamination. Twin Falls Stake: The Twin Falls stake Relief Society board entertained the ward officers, class leaders and teachers at the home of President Kate Kirkham, late in July. About sixty people were present. Each organization contributed not less than fifteen minutes of entertainment. Refreshments were served and all enjoyed a sociable time together. Fremont Stake In order to send a special delegation to April conference, the stake board of Fremont stake called on the wards to help and very excellent meals were served in the basement of the tabernacle during stake conference Saturday and Sunday, March 22 and 23. These meals were served cafeteria style, at five and ten cents per dish. Each ward responded cheerfully and the neat sum of $89.77 was netted. The board also co-operated with the picture show by advertising and selling tickets for a good picture, and an additional sum of $54.79 was netted. On July 28 and 29, a very successful health conference was held in Fremont stake under the auspices of the Bureau of Child Hygiene of the state of Idaho. The Social Service department of the stake Relief Society took the lead in securing the clinic for 
 the county. All of the women's clubs and organizations of Rexburg and vicinity were called in to help put over the advertising, registration, and other preparation for the clinic. About twentyfour mothers and babies were examined by Dr. F. W. Almond, director of Bureau of Child Hygiene, and Miss Robinson, the nurse. It is felt that much good was accomplished by bringing these people to the community. A number of women have expressed themselves as being thankful for the Sheppard-Towner provision, which has made it possible, financially, for the women ? competent advice and help in caring for mothers and abies. Recently the stake board entertained the local officers at a party in the basement of the tabernacle. President Lavina Walker presided at the meeting. A good program was given, consisting of appropriate songs, readings and musical numbers by members of the board. One interesting feature was the original song in which some of the known and unknown characteristics and abilities of each board member were brought to light. A delicious luncheon was served to ninety-eight officers, ten board members, and six special guests, including James Blake of the stake presidency. During the luncheon, toasts were given by board members and heartily responded to by local officers. All joined in the "get-acquainted" games and community singing and just before the close of the party a motion was put by local officers and carried that in the near future the local officers entertain the stake board members. An excellent spirit prevailed throughout the entire entertainment and no doubt much good will result from this effort. Deseret Stake The Deseret stake Relief Society was reorganized June 22, 1924. Mrs. Alice L. Gardner who has presided so ably over the Relief Society work for a number of years, was released on account of moving from the stake, and Mrs. Martha C. Adams was appointed president. Mrs. Gardner was one of the most capable and enthusiastic members of the social service class held at the Brigham Young University during the summer of 1920, when, for six weeks she, with the other members of the class, devoted her time exclusively to the study of welfare work. After her appointment as president, Mrs. Gardner made a careful survey of conditions and needs in her stake and with her capable assistants, set about to maintain all the old standards and to make improvements wherever possible. She has been most successful in her labors and her removal from Deseret stake is a distinct loss to the Relief Society. It is hoped that in her new home in Colorado Mrs. Gardner will at once identify herself with Relief Society work and be as helpful there as she was in Utah. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 587 The new officers of the stake are: president, Mrs. Martha C. Adams; counselors, Mrs. Eliza S. Cottrell and Mrs. Jene L. Gardner; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Lillie E. Wood.