LESSON III (Third Week in January) Literature Walt Whitman presents a new problem in American literature. His poetry is very far removed from that of Edgar Allen Poe. He himself speaks of it as a "barbaric yapp," which GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY | 595 is his own confession that his verse is very different to anything that people were in the habit of calling poetic verse. He was at first very unpopular as a poet. He came before the American public handicapped in two ways. In the first place, he gave to the world an entirely new type of poetry and scheme of verse that did not in any sense please the people who had learned to read the poems of Longfellow, Lowell, and Holmes. His other handicap came from the fact that socially he descended from a group of people who did not especially represent the cultured class, so that readers were very suspicious of his art productions. Katherine Lee Bates, in an effort to describe his verse, says: In 1855, there broke upon the world a sound that impressed most hearers as a bestial bellow. Heretofore America's poets had been Harvard professors, Concord sages, graceful southerners, polished Philadelphians and New Yorkers, who had written like pure-hearted, cultivated gentlemen, and this new poet who has been described as an "Apollo in shirt sleeves' did not impress the American public at all favorably," An official attempt was even made to suppress Leaves of Grass as indecent, but Walt Whitman was not to be suppressed. -Walt Whitman was born in Long Island of farmer ancestry. A man of meagre schooling, he had knocked about the world in a free and easy way; roaming through the West and South, exploring great cities, and trying a variety of occupations such as teaching, gardening, printing, carpentry, journalism, which all ended in his finally making up his mind to be a poet. He says, "I, now thirty-seven years old, in perfect health, began, hoping to cease not until death." Walt Whitman served during the Civil War as a war nurse. So strenuous was the activity required of him during this very abnormal period that for twenty years he lived a paralytic. He had his heart's desire, for, while he was forced to the life of an invalid and to all the inconvenience of one who is paralyzed, yet, during these twenty years, he was able to write poetry. The following story will indicate how the New England group of poets regarded Walt Whitman socially. During the Civil War he had served a resident of the State of Massachusetts _ in a most extraordinary way. This man, hoping to repay Whitman in small measure for the great benefit bestowed upon him, invited him to come to Boston and Concord. When Whitman was able to accept the invitation he wrote to his friend, Mr. S.,. Telling him he would be very glad to make a visit to those cities. Mr. S., went to Concord and told the literary people there of Mr. Whitman's intended visit. The Emersons made some excuse, Thoreau said it would not be convenient to receive him because his sister was indisposed, and the Alcotts behaved in much the 596. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE same fashion. Concord was not mentioned by Mr. S. To his guest, because he understood perfectly that the literary people of his state did not wish to receive the poet. With all the difficulties and discouragement Whitman encountered, he finally attracted the notice of the critics, who discovered that he had very unusual power. Again he wrote his friend, Mr. S., that he would come to Boston for a visit. The friend had this information published in the newspaper. The poets of Concord saw the item and very promptly took steps to extend to him a most cordial greeting. Miss Alcott wrote asking for the pleasure of Mr. Whitman's company at an afternoon tea, the Emersons opened their home for a reception; every courtesy that literary Concord had to offer was extended to him. Although his poetry finally gained favor with certain critics of poetry in Europe and America, there was not that in his writing to make him popular with the American public. He selected very unusual subjects and wrote about these unusual subjects in a very unusual way. Walt Whitman has been called the most democratic of all our poets. He realized that we were facing a new civilization, a civilization where the products of science would be of immense importance. Poets had written about chariots and barouches, but most people would have said that a locomotive was not a fit theme for the poet's pen; nevertheless, Whitman recognized in it a symbol of power, and he has given us a poem full of suggestiveness?one of the best poems that has grown from this life of ours, propelled by steam, gasoline, and electricity. We include a few lines from the poem, "To a Locomotive in Winter:" "Thy black cylindric body, golden brass, and silvery steel; Thy ponderous side-bars, parallel and connecting rods. Gyrating Shuttling at thy sides. "Thy long, pale, floating vapor-pennants, tinged with delicate purple; The dense and murky clouds out-belching from thy, smokestacks; Thy knitted frame?thy springs and valves?the tremulous twinkle of thy wheels. "Type of the modern!?emblem of motion and power!?pulse of the continent! For once, come serve the Muse and merge in verse, even as here I see thee, With storm and buffeting gusts of wind, and falling snow; By day, thy warning, ringing bell to sound its notes, By night thy silent signal lamps to swing."
Walt Whitman revered above all else in this world the man. What he has to say about a great city is a classic. In his "Song of the Broad Axe," we read:
"The great city is that which has the greatest men and women; If it be a few ragged huts, it is still the greatest city in the whole world."
And farther on he says a great city is the place,
"Where equanimity is illustrated in affairs, Where speculations on the Soul are encouraged, Where women walk in public procession in the streets the same as the men, Where they enter the public assembly and take places the same as men, Where the city of the faithfulest friends stands, Where the city of the cleanliness of the sexes stands, Where the city of the healthiest fathers stands; Where the city of the best-bodied mothers stands? There the great city stands."
Walt Whitman is ahead of his time in appreciating the clean, healthy body. These lines will show how thoroughly modern were his ideas in relation to the body:
"There is something in staying close to men and women, and looking on them, and in the contact and odor of them, that pleases the soul well.
"A Man's body at auction; (For before the war I often go to the slave-mart and watch the sale).
"Gentlemen look on this wonder! Whatever the bids of the bidders, they cannot be high enough for it.
"In this head the all-baffling brain, In and below it the makings of heroes.
Examine these limbs, red, black, or white, they are cunning in tendon and nerve,
"Exquisite senses life-lit eyes, pluck, volition, Flakes of breast-muscle, pliant backbone and neck, flesh not flabby, good-sized arms and legs, And wonders within there yet.
"If anything is sacred the human body is sacred, And the glory and sweet of a man is the token of manhood untainted, And in man or woman a clean, strong, firm-fibred body, is beautiful as the most beautiful face."
Walt Whitman has written what is perhaps the best poem on Abraham Lincoln, "O Captain! My Captain!"
O Captain! My Captain! Our fearful trip is done; The ship has weather'd every rack, the prize we sought is won; The port is near, the bells I hear, the people all exulting While follow eyes the steady keel, the vessel grim and daring; But O heart! Heart! Heart! O the bleeding drops of red, Where on the deck my Captain lies, Fallen cold and dead.
O Captain! My Captain! Rise up and hear the bells; Rise up?for you the flag is flung?for you the bugle trills, For you bouquets and ribbon'd wreaths?for you the shores a-crowding, For you they call, the swaying mass, their eager faces turning; Here Captain! Dear father! This arm beneath your head; It is some dream that on the deck, You've fallen cold and dead.

My Captain does not answer, his lips are pale and still, My father does not feel my arm, he has no pulse nor will, The ship is anchored safe and sound, its voyage closed and done, From fearful trip the victor ship comes in with object won; Exult, O shores, and ring, O bells! But I with mournful tread, Walk the deck my Captain lies Fallen cold and dead.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Which sort of poetry do you prefer, the kind that emphasizes matter, or the kind which emphasizes the manner in which the matter is presented?
2. Discuss this proposition: The poets of America would be behind the times if their poetry was not representative of our present-day civilization.
3. What event in Lincoln's life inspired the beautiful poem, "O Captain! My Captain!"?
4. In what sense might Walt Whitman be considered a war hero?
5. Discuss Walt Whitman's statement: "A great city is that which has the greatest men and women; If it be a few ragged huts, it is still the greatest city in the whole world."
6. Do you think that the poetry written by poets today resembles the writing of Walt Whitman? If you think that any considerable group of poets are copying his style, then, despite the fact that his form was very unpopular in the beginning, has he not won out?
LESSON IV (Fourth