[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | June | Issue: 24 | Title: AN INVALID FRIEND. | Author: AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON]

		AN INVALID FRIEND.

	Heart's beloved ! to you I send
		Greeting from the canyon's shade,
	Gathered where the branches bend
		And streams with light o'erlaid;
	Where the birds in sweetest chorus
		Sing their message with my heart,
	And the flowers baeathe their kisses
		In sweet odors for their part.

	All the waters, rippling. leaping,
		In their haste and in their calm,
	Fresh as life and bright with sunbeams,
		Send to you their healing balm;
	All the silence, like sweet prayers
		And the mountains' sense of might,
	With the strength of pine and cedars,
		All, their spell of health unite.

	Could I bring you to their presence,
		Surely, Nature might surpass
	All the feeble skill of science
		And your lips would smile at last,
	For the moment all forgetting
		Present pains and tender fears—
	You would live with eyes and senses
		That belonged to childhood's years.

	Close thine eyes, beloved and wander
		In thy fancy where once grew
	Leafy arch, and flow'ry meadow,
		Bending. blooming, all for you;
	When your heart knew nothing grayer
		Than sweet childhood's duties small,
	And thy world's thy life's fair ranges
		Were within thy mother's call.

	Questions great thou hadst not pondered,
		Trials had not met thee then,
	Yet thy life was fair as morning—
		As though ills had never been,
	Now, o'er all the time and distance
		And its record, thou may'st smile,
	As in childhood, for God's angels
		Have been with thee all the while.

	Though thy bloom of youth hath faded,
		In their stead thy soul hath raised
	Graces that will live forever
		And in memory be praised.

	Take my off'ring small and lowly,
		And perhaps thy soul may hear
	All the sounds and all the whispers
		That are gathered 'round us here.

	Leafy branches proffer shelter
		From the wind and from the sun,
	And the green sward calls your footsteps
		Where the brightest waters run;
	
[Column 2]
	Creeping vines and berry branches
		Send you word of what they'll bear,
	And the flowers would smile to wither
		In your hands so slight and fair.

	Would this little page might bear thee
		All the beauty spring bestows,
	Where the mossy rocks are shaded
		By wild cherry blooms and rose;
	Would I might divide my freedom
		In these rambles, dear, with thee,
	And thy steps with mine discover
		All there is to hear and see.
	
	Until then, I will bear with me
		Thoughts of what thy lips would say,
	And with poet's own delusion
		Be thy guide along the way.

	When thy hands and eyes are weary
		And thou turnest to thy sleep,
	Let one thought for gift and giver
		Place amid thy dreaming keep.
					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
Bountiful, May, 1892.


