MISSIONARY EXPERIENCE.
		(Continued from page 58)
	Even the landlady, who feared our going
through her belongings, came in for a fare-
well. She was a rough woman, but an hon-
est one. Her husband had joined the volun-
teers for Africa (it was the time of the Boer
war) and left her to provide for herself and
two children, except what the city paid to
her. She had become a friend; attended the
meetings, and said, “If any in the earth
have the truth, you have.” Her people per-
suaded her that she could do better to go
out to do day work, leaving her children
with them. Thus they accomplished their
desire, and the missionaries had to find
other lodgings. All this is past now; some
day she may come into the fold. Only one
we did not go to see. She was a little
woman who had at first been very kind.
When the writer caught her dress in one of
the old English styles, and fell, her limb 
afterwards becoming nearly black, so much
was it bruised from ankle to knee, she had
tenderly bathed and soothed it with healing
ointment. But neighbors poisoned her
mind, told her that even from across the
street, I had, they could see, tipped the
mirror of the dresser too far over, and
“made her house look ever so.” So, filled
by the hate that the adversary of souls in-
spires, she had turned us into the street,
while she foamed at the mouth and shook
like an aspen leaf, afterwards being ill in
bed for six months.
	“Why did you not tell us you had such
things to endure?” I was afterwards asked.
	“What would be the use of telling that
which you could not understand?
	As we ride in the train to Euston Station,
we think of a man whom we invited to at-
tend this Conference in London. He had
read the tracts, and being a builder, had
desired to see the manner of houses in Utah.
We had taken the pictures for him to see.
He was much interested. “But come to
London,” we said, “hear the presiding auth-
orities talk.”
	“Do you think I would be, safe to come
there?” he asked.
	How long before people will understand
Utah and the Mormons?
