ANNUAL DAY IN UNION, OREGON.
	Minutes of Relief Society annual meeting
held March 17, 1910, at 2 p. m., in the
meeting house, President Mary H. Dalton
presiding. First Counselor Rebecca E.
Weatherston conducting. Singing, “We
thank thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer
by Sister Gladys Baxter. Singing, “Sow-
ing.” Minutes of annual meeting, 1909,
read. Program for both afternoon and
evening had been arranged, but only regu-
lar afternoon services were held on account
of the demise of our beloved sister, Mary
Holladay Richens. She left a husband and
an infant son. Her sudden death cast a
deep gloom over the entire community,
both Gentiles and Saints mourned her loss.
The few short months she lived in Union
were fully occupied in instructing the young
people in singing. Her glee club, her class
of young women and her class of young
men made rapid progress under her instruc-
tion. Her advice was to cultivate the voice
above all things. There was never a day
but that she had some of the young people
about her. Her great heart of love was re-
flected by every one who knew her, and will
remain with them forever. Every moment
was full of activity for the good of others.
	Counselor Rebecca E. Weatherston read a
letter from the stake officers commending
our past labors and encouraging us for the
future and counseling us to celebrate our
annual day.
	Sister Josephine Hanks read the minutes
of the first Relief Society meeting organized.
	President Mary H. Dalton made a few re-
marks on the minutes just read and com-
mented on the Relief Society being a chari-
table organization. Was proud of this ward
organization and the willingness of the sis-
ters in helping in the recent trouble we have
just passed through in our ward. Said we
should not regard our own work when called
to help those in trouble. We cannot ap-
preciate the Gospel too much. The main
thing is to love each other, this is the mis-
sion of the Relief Society. The sisters
should check scandal wherever it is heard,
and it will prove a great blessing to them all.
	Sister Rose H. England said we little
realize the blessings the Lord blesses us
with, and testified to the truthfulness of the
Gospel.
	Sister Eliza Peterson felt the spirit of testi-
mony would leave us if we continued to
quench the spirit. She has a testimony of
the Gospel. A few words will strengthen
us.
	Sister Helena Jenson said the Relief So-
ciety has grown with the Church, it is one
of the greatest, if not the greatest organiza-
tion on the earth. She loves the Relief
Society work. Asked the blessings of the
Lord on all, and especially on the presidency.
	Sister Emily Taylor longs to bear her
testimony, but feels very timid. Loves the
work of the Gospel, and especially that of
the Relief Society.
	Sister Caroline Gilman has a strong testi-
mony to bear. With the help of the Lord
will do all she is called on to do. Hoped
the Relief Society work would grow and
spread.
	Sister Josephine Hanks has had her pray-
ers answered many times. We must live


lives of purity in order to have the holy
Spirit abide with us. Mothers must set the
example for their daughters to follow.
Prayed we would be able to meet with the
exalted ones when we go on the other side.
	Sister Charlotte Hunter then read an
original poem:
	President Dalton related some incidents
that occurred during the trial of Brother
Richens that showed his great faith and
trust in his Heavenly Father. What could
bring such comfort and trust but the
Gospel?
	Sister Gladys Baxter bore her testimony,
said the only way to meet our loved ones
who have gone on the other side is to live
for it. Asked the blessings of the Lord on
all the sisters, that we may be able to over-
look each other’s faults. Sister Caroline
Holling felt the mothers needed the blessings
of the Lord to guide them more than any
one.
	Sister Susie Morton bore her testimony to
the goodness of the Lord toward her.
	Sister Oreta Combs said so many good
things for hope and comfort had been said,
that she hardly knew what she could add
The Gospel was the only thing that had sus-
tained her in the past, few years. Asked
the blessing of the Lord on all the sisters.
She is ready to do all that is required of her,
	Sister Louisa Loveless bore her testimony.
Has been a Relief Society member for 55
years.
	Sister Elnora Jacobs would not feel satis-
fied if she went home without saying a few
words. Her desires are for good and she is
willing to obey counsel. Said we should
never let the sun go down with feelings of
ill will against any one.
	Sister Mary Atkinson bore her testimony
and made other remarks.
	Counselor Rebecca E. Weathereton was
so pleased that all of the sisters had re-
sponded so readily in rising to bear their
testimonies. Said let us do all the good we
can, and as little harm as possible. Be kind
to the mothers who gave us birth, for we
will not always have them with us. Prayed
she would hold steadfast to the end, that
she would be able to meet her loved ones on
the other side. Prayed God to bless us all.
	Sister Helena Jensen spoke of Sister Bath-
sheba Smith being the only living sister who
was at the first Relief Society meeting organ-
ized; that we have always been under the
direction of one of the sisters who was at
that first meeting.
	Sister Mary Atkinson then read a letter
from the Exponent, written by Sister Bath-
sheba W. Smith, to the officers of the Relief
Society.
	Closed by singing “Come, come ye
Saints.” Benediction, Sister Helena Jensen.
		MARY ATKINSON, Acting Sec.


