							MILLICENT.


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS FROM A FOREIGN LETTER. 
	Presidents of missions, conferences and 
branches are acknowledged the great help 
and benefit the Relief Society is to the 
Priesthood and a good work is being done 
among the women also. They are learning
to work in organizations in harmony and 
with union and love one for another, and 
studying numerous subjects valuable to 
mothers. Immigration often almost breaks 
up a society; one has had to cease to be, be-
cause the few left lived so far apart that the 
meetings could not be kept up. Frequently 
reorganization takes place because the offi-
cers go to Zion. I am stirring them up by 
way of remembrance to be sure and keep 
our anniversary the 17th of March. We 
here in Liverpool give a concert and social 
on that day, and expect to have a good 
time. Will you or can you hold your Relief 
Society Conference in April in your own 
building? I believe that was the ambition
of the sisters, to have a room or hall where 
they could hold meetings as often and as 
long as they desired. I read of the grand 
reception tendered you by the R. S. Board 
in your new building. Also of the party 
held in honor of your birthday by the Press 
Club and of the pretty silk gown presented 
you. I also read with great terror of your 
sudden illness some time ago, but was 
greatly relieved when I read you had recov-
ered and was back in your office. I believe
you are the senior woman of the world who 
at your age attends her office and business.
You surely have broken the record and set 
an example to the rest of us. My great 
ambition is when I get home again to bury 
myself in the Temple and work for my dead!
On my father’s side very little has been
done.
	That will be a new atmosphere to this out 
here in the world. It is past comprehen-

[Column 2]
sion, mine, at least, how the people can be 
content with the silly, chaffy, positively 
nonsensical religions they follow here. 
Their depth of reasoning reaches no farther 
than their fathers before them, saying, “what
was good enough for my parents is good 
enough for me,” and take no further thought 
about it. But amidst all this apathy many 
honest hearted people are coming to a 
knowledge of the gospel and joining the 
Church. 
	It is an actual, positive truth that the 
Christians, so-called, worship an unknown 
God just as much as they did in Paul’s day,
and the only difference between them and 
the heathen is they have nothing in their
mind’s eye, while the heathen look upon a 
tangible idol. Oh! the work that will some-
time have to be done for the dead is appall-
ing to think of. It looks almost impossible 
to be accomplished. President Penrose had 
a letter from Susa Gates yesterday in which 
she gave us a real insight into President
Winder’s condition and we both felt very sad. 
*		*		*		*		*
I dread to think of floods that may possibly 
inundate the people on the west of Jordan, 
and of the city near it. They seem to be 
devastating everywhere. Some permanent 
way to carry off surplus water will have to 
be found or people will be discouraged from 
building up that part of the city. We have 
actually had four or five fine days consecu-
tively in March which is [-] very uncommon 
record for England. There is a great deal 
of rain, wind and fog here but with it all it 
is not nearly so cold as at home. But I 
miss the clear, bright, starlit nights, when 
the heavens are studded with brilliant stars. 
I scarcely ever can see a star here. We go 
to London again March 26th, and after the 
conference held there on the 27th, the next 
Sunday Pres. Penrose will go on to Norwich 
for conference there and I will remain in
London.
	On our way to the Nottingham conference 
this year, we started a day sooner and 
stopped off at Worksop, where friends joined 
us and we went to visit a very ancient and 
interesting town called Lincoln, where there 
is a very old and celebrated cathedral. In 
it is a very tiny “Imp,” carved on the top 
of one of the pillars, which has a legend at-
tached, of course, to account for its pres-
ence. A fine artist, a sculptor, has a beau-
tiful lady-love and he carves her sweet face 
on one of the stones at the top of one of the 
pillars; but a traitor rival convinces her that 
he did the work, and she is so flattered that 
she consents to marry him. The true lover 
in his jealous rage climbs up to the image, 
and with a few strokes of his chisel converts 
the face into a grinning imp with horns on 
its head. But, fortunately for the true lover, 
as the false one and bride were crossing a 
deep, swift stream on the way to the church 
to be wed, his horse loses its footing and 
he is drowned and of course the true lover
is on the bank witnessing the scene and 
dashes in and saves the lady, and they are
afterward happily married; but the grinning 
imp remains. 
	Now I must close or I will make my let-
ter too heavy. I hope you will write soon


and tell me all the news you can think of 
and especially of your own good health. 
Give my love to Annie and Belle and all my 
friends. I suppose you have not seen my 
new grandaughter—from her picture I call 
her a great beauty, but perhaps I am like 
the old owl thinking her nestlings are the 
most beautiful in the forest. I must write 
two more letters for this mail. Remember 
us especially to Sister Bathsheba and our 
wishes and prayers are for her welfare. Mr.
Penrose joins me in love to you, 
		Most Lovingly,
