SEVENTEENTH OF MARCH.
	The annual day of the Relief Society,
March 17, has been observed this year, we
think, in every ward in all the Stakes and
missions throughout the Church; this has
been customary now for quite a number of
years, more particularly since the Jubilee of
this Society was celebrated in 1892, it is
called the Relief Society day—the one day
in all the year when the sisters contribute
for the fund of the General Society. It is
the only means that the General Officers and
Board of Directors have to defray the neces-
sary expenses of carrying on the work of
this great institution. Ten cents from each
member is a very small contribution and
yet were every member to give the ten cents
it would be, we do believe most sincerely a
great blessing to the individual member,
and certainly to the President and officers
of the Society who labor assiduously for the
advancement of the cause for which on the
seventeenth of Mark, 1842, in the beautiful
city of Nauvoo this Society was founded.
	It is impossible in a short article to tell
the various ways this money is used, but 
the President of this organization, who was
present at the memorable meeting when
the organization took place is a very pru-
dent woman in the handling of means, and
not one cent is ever paid out of the treasury
without her sanction, and her signature at-
tached to the order for the money, also the
name of the secretary. The Treasurer pays
all bills, issues all checks, and everything
is paid with checks and in no other way.
	It was not our intention to mention the
ten cent donation in speaking of the annual
day, but only to suggest that the sisters do
observe it and make it the Relief Society
day for all time. It is now sixty-eight
years since the founding, and in two more
years it will be seventy. In that time we
might perhaps think of something appro-
priate for so great an occasion as that will
be, something that will be distinctive and
largely representative.


[Column 1]
HOME INDUSTRY.
	There is much being said just now about
home manufacture and home industry, and 
it really seems that our people are in earnest
in this matter once more; let us hope so,
and that we are beginning to go back to
first principles in this respect, and durability
and something that has real substance in-
stead of a fine display of shoddy material.

[Column 2]
Not that all the goods we buy is of that 
class, but the home-made products of wool
and silk have certainly been very much bet-
ter, and lasted longer and have been much
cheaper in the end than those imported.
	We were all very proud of our woolen 
goods, cloth, blankets and shawls especially,
we can never forget how durable they were,
no other blankets bought elsewhere lasted
so long; only a few, we think, have those yet
that were manufactured at first; but those
who have are fond of displaying them, and
our sisters refer with great pride to the
Woman’s Store, when Sister Eliza R. Snow
managed it, and we recall with the utmost
satisfaction the success of that department
of work connected closely with the Relief
Society in early days and which eventually
merged into Cutler Bro’s. but still retained
the name of home manufacture and kept in
stock the Provo Mills woolen goods, and
other such like commodities. 
	We were very glad to have factories, in-
stead of so much carding, spinning and
weaving in our own homes in such a primi-
tive way, although perhaps the women and
girls who were engaged in this work at
home, were quite happy and enjoyed that 
kind of employment; and some of the 
grandmothers now recount with pride the 
good old-fhshioned methods of those early
times, and how desirous they were to have
the very finest and best quality and color in
their wearing apparel, carpets and the vari-
ous articles made at home.
	In the commencement of the Relief So-
ciety in Nauvoo one of the first things en-
joined upon the sisters was to furnish or 
find employment for those in need of as-
sistance; and it has always been the aim
and endeavor to carry out this counsel of
the Prophet Joseph Smith, and much has 
been done in this direction; but as a people
we seem to have drifted away of late years
from this advice, and to have accepted what
seemed easier methods in the way of living
and helping the needy, and while ready 
money has come into more common use,
we have certainly neglected some important
matters, and we are not so independent as
we ought to be, or as we might have been.
	For a number of years the Relief Society
as well as individuals struggled to establish
silk culture; thousands of mulberry trees
were planted and millions of silk worms fed,
and cocoons of an excellent quality raised.
President Brigham Young had a mulberry 
farm with a large cocoonery just south of
this city and took the lead in this branch
of home industry, as he did in many other
home industries and manufactures. Aunt
Zina Young, who was for many years Presi-
dent of the Uiah Silk Assoclation; traveled
over Utah and throughout the Stakes of 
Zion in the interest of this branch of home 
industry. To be sure a great deal was done,
time would fail to tell of the efforts made 
by the sisters in this direction and what was
accomplished, and it is a deep source of re-
gret to the women of this State, that for 
lack of means, which might easily have been
furnished, if capitalists and legislators had
been wise enough to promote this industry,
that would have been far better for the peo-
ple than a gold mfne in their midst; but it 
was allowed to die out, and the sisters wear
imported silk which is vastly inferior to the 
home-made.
	One might go on enumerating the many
home enterprises that have been started and
have failed for lack of support and patron-
age, that are a source of regret today, not 
only because of the benefits that might have

[Column 3]
resulted, in clear gain and a sort of inde-
pendence that is always a credit to any peo-
ple, but best of all might have given re-
munerative employment to the boys and 
girls of our people.
	The Woman’s Store that is still struggling
for support, and which many of our sisters
have almost forgotten, was started upon this
principle, and was named “The Woman’s
Co-operative Mercantile and Home Manu-
facturing Institution.” It was intended to
help young women and girls to employment,
as well as to promote the interests of wo-
men along all the lines of work with a view
to self-support. Most of the branches of the 
Relief Society in Salt Lake County own
shares in this store, as well as a number of
individual members.
	The first President of the instituion, Mrs.
M. Isabella Horne, was one of the strongest
advocates of home industries and home
manufactured materials among this people,
and she had as coadjutors in this undertak-
ing at first, many of the leading women of
the city and county. Among the foremost
who worked for its establishment was Dr.
Elvira S. Barney, whose energy and enter-
prise accomplished so much in the building
up of this city. The houses she built and 
owned, stand as monuments to her memory
and achievement.
	At the present time Mrs. R. K. Thomas
is the President of this institution. The
store itself is in very good hands, under the 
management of a Board of Directors, all
able women, and Miss Mary Morgan is Busi-
ness Manager of the store itself, it is at the
present time located at 41 1/2 S. Main Street.
Salt Lake City.
	If our sisters in the cities and towns ad-
jacent would patronize the Woman’s Store
when they come in to trade it might help
very materially, and it is certainly a good
investment for themselves to sustain an en-
terprise, which has such a philanthropic ob-
ject in view for the betterment of the youth
of our city; for whatever gives employment
to any community of people is of incalcu-
able value.


