			HATTIE CRITCHLOW JENSEN.


[Column 1]
U. W. P. C AND REAPERS SOCIAL.
ON WEDNESDAY FEBUARY 23, 1910.
	Through mutual agreement the Utah Wo-
man’s Press Club and the Reapers Social
met in the EXPONENT Office, Bishop’s
Building, to do honor to our founder and
organizer, Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells. Pres-
dent Mrs. Hattie C. Jensen, presiding.
Elder George Q. Morris was called upon to
open the meeting with prayer. The secre-
tary then called the roll, showing a good at-
tendance of officers and members.
	Master Byron Jensen sang an appropriate
selectfon with violin obligato by Lucile
Critchlow.
	The most touching tribute of the evening
was given by Annie Wells Cannon—“Emm-
eline B. Wells as a Mother”-her tenderness,
her sympathy and love, and withal, her
great wisdom in directing the youthful
minds of her children, were so beautifully
depicted by the speaker that hearts throbbed
audibly and eyes were moistened. The for-
titude and courage of that mother; no ele-
ment of fear ever came to this ofttimes lone-

[Column 2]
ly household through the sublime faith and
courage of the mother; and thus were the
children taught by precept and example, to
follow in her illustrious footsteps.
	Miss Bessie Smith then sang in a very
pleasing manner “The Songs my Mother
Sang.”
	Dr. E. R. Shipp then read an article en-
titled “As an Editor” expressive of heartfelt
appreciation of our poet-editor.
	Miss Vera Jensen then sang very sweetly,
“Bonnie Sweet Bessie.”
	Mrs. Lydia D. Alder in her effort to show
the immortal powers of “The Writer,” nice-
ly demonstrated her own facile ability as a
penwoman.
	In behalf of the two clubs, Dr. Ellis R.
Shipp presented our honorary president with
a silken gown as a token of loving esteem
of her co-workers. Mrs. Wells responded in
her sweet characteristic way, her words of
loving appreciation reaching all hearts.
	Delicious refreshments were served along
with pleasant interchange of thought and
soul to soul communion of life-long friends.
Then followed a musical program and inter-
esting speechmaking.
	An original song by Prest. Hattie C. Jen-
sen was beautifully rendered by a special
quartette: Samuel Winters, Harold Bar-
clough, Mrs. Sarah Wood and Vera Jen-
sen.
	Don Carlos Wood gave several humorous
recitations which were highly appreciated.
Followed by a piano duet by Mrs. Clara
Jensen and daughter.
	The Ladies Quartette, composed of Anna
Ericson, Natalie Thomas, Leah Arnold and
Marie Thomas, sang very sweetly.
	Bathsheba W. Smith, President of the
Relief Society, expressed her good will for
Sister Wells, and gave reminiscences of
early Missouri pioneer days.
	Mrs. Ruth M. Fox told in fitting words
how much we all realize what this little wo-
man has done for us in stimulating literary
effort and inspiring us to bring out all the
possibilities of our natures.
	She had often imagined Sister Wells as a
young girl and believed she too loved to
make herself look beautiful as other girls
do. The evening’s entertainment closed
with cordial handshakes and many, many
loving wishes for long life and happiness to
our honored and revered leader, Emmeline
B Wells.
			ELLIS R. SHIPP,
				Secretary U. W. P. C.


[Column 1]
		NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mr. Frank Sanborn writes in his Boston
letter to the Springfield Republican:
	Mrs. Howe continues her activities at the
women’s club and elsewhere, and has recom-
mended to her club mates to take up a
study of the races mingling in our national
population with particular reference to the
powerful Irish element. In that connection
she mentions that in 1843 she accompanied
Dr. Howe on a visit to Ireland, and, against
the adv ce of their London friends, went in
Dublin to hear O’Connell in one of his great
repeal speeches. It was interesting to hear
her and one of her daughters sing some of
the old English comic songs, one after the
other; much as I heard Mrs. Gerrit Smith
and her daughter, about 1870, sing at
Clarke’s Island, in Plymouth harbor, the
ballad of Lockhart, once in great favor as
a song, “The Bridal of Andalla.”

[Column 2]
	Mme. Marguarite Durand, editor of a
daily newspapor, and a leader of the suffrage
movement in France, intends to present
herself at the election in May as a candi-
date for the Chamber of Deputies. Women
are not legally eligible, but Mme. Durand
will run to call attention to the discrimina-
tion against her sex, and to the necessity of
giving women the franchise.
	Mrs. J. Scott Anderson, principal of the
Swarthmore School and Kindergarten for
the Deaf, has been appointed to represent
four different parties at the International
Congress on home Education, to be held in
Brussels, August 21-25. Governor Stuart
has delegated her to represent the Com-
monwealth of Pennsylvania. She will attend
also as the delegate of the American Acad-
emy of Social and Political Science, the
Philadelphia League of Home and School
Associations, and the Woman’s Club of
Swarthmore. Both Mr. and Mrs. Anderson
are ardent suffragists.—Ex.
	Miss Susan Lawrence and Miss Nettie
Alder have just been elected to the London
County Council where they will legislate
for more people than make up the whole
population of Massachusetts. Twenty-one
years ago Miss Jane Cobden (now the wife
of T. Fisher Unwin) and Lady Margaret
Sandhurst were elected to the Council, but
the courts held that women were not eligible.
During their short experience on the Coun-
cil, pending the decision of the court, Miss
Cobden and Lady Sandhurst rendered such
valuable service that the London County
Council has been petitioning Parliament
ever since to make women eligible. After
twenty years’ delay, the last Parliament got
around to doing so, and did it handsomely,
with only 15 dissenting votes out of 670
members of the House of Commons.—Ex.
	Miss Evangeline E. Whitney, who was in
charge of the recreation centres of the New
York public schools, has just died. The
Journal of Education describes her as “the
brilliant pioneer worker in this great field of
public school endeavor.” It adds: “This
phase of public school effort is as distinct a
blessing to the world as the discovery of the
causes of yellow fever and tuberculosis, and
a memorial should be raised in honor of the
woman who led in this movement in the
greatest of American cities.”
	Mrs. Winifred Harper Cooley, daughter of
Mrs. Ida Harper, is National Secretary of
the Associated Clubs of Domestic Science.
As a result of her investigation she has
reached the conclusion that a law to make
the cold storage of food products for longer
than six months illegal would go far toward
solving the evil of high prices.
	Lady St. Helier (formerly Lady Jeune),
has been chosen an alderman.
	Miss Mary Johnston coutributes to the
Atlantic Monthly an admirable article in
favor of votes for women, to offset Mrs.
Margaret Deland’s recent contribution on
the other side.
	Mrs. Ellen M. Henrotin and Dr. Anna
Dwyer, president of the medical staff of
Mary Thompson Hospital, have been ap-
pointed by Mayor Busse on the commission
of thirty members to investigate vice con-
ditions in Chicago. The powers of the com-
mission are limited to the securing of infor-
mation and the making of a report with
recommendations.


