UINTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the regular 50th Relief Society
Conference of Uintah Stake of Zion, held in
Maeser Ward, February 20, 1910, beginning
at 2. p. m. We had a good attendance of
brethren and sisters, President Nancy A.
Colton presiding.
	After the usual exercises, the Sacrament


was administered. President Colton wel-
comed the brethren and sisters and spoke
of the sickness in the valley; we should be
united and one sister help the other look
after the sick.
	Song by a group of little boys and girls
led by Ethelwynne Collett, accompanied
by Hazel Allen.
	Lecture by Anna Smart entitled “The
Best Discipline for Character Building,”
which was very ably handled.
	Recitation by Ada Winder entitled “Lit-
tle Rose Bud.”
	Stake Presidency represented by Elders
Reuben S. Collett and Harris W. Woolley.
	Elder Harris W. Woolley had been edified,
but the thought had come to him how we
were to reach the ideas that had been placed
before us? I think, said he, the only way
is to be united in our efforts and then we
will reach the point.
	He referred to the lecture and recitations
which had been given, also spoke of the
books our children should read.
	Song by Bathera Young accompanied by
Hazel Allen.
	Elder Reuben S. Collett had been much
impressed by what President Colton had
said in regard to helping the sick, urged the
sisters to be neighborly in times of sickness,
he urged each and every one to know the
kind of companions and books our children
have.
	Counselor Annie K. Bartlett in behalf of
the Stake Board, thanked the Bishopric of
Maeser Ward for letting us have this house
Sunday afternoon, thinking we wanted to
get more of the brethren to come; spoke of
letting little boys play marbles for keeps,
it is a little thing, but it might lead to
greater evils.
	Mary H. Stringham spoke of the anniver-
sary on the 17th of March, the day the Re-
lief Society was first organized; she invited
all to be present.
	Conference odjourned for three months to
be held in Glines Ward.
	Singing, “Count Your Many Blessings.”
	Benediction by Patriarch Nelson Merk-
ley.
		PHEHE A. MERKLEY, Secretary.


