WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	MISSIONARY EXPERIENCE.
	When in the missionary field I often said
to myself, when packing my grip, having
been transferred to another field of labor,
“O, I shall be glad when I pack my grip for
the last time; I am so tired of living in
grips!”
	The missionary thus about to migrate,
realizing he must now labor in pastures
new, feels to look back on what he knows
rather than to step into the future—the un-
known. But our abiding faith in God and
His work gives an assurance one otherwise
could not feel. In the world it is considered
to be a bad thing to be a Mormon man, but
to be a Mormon woman is much worse.
“Do you know you have Mormon women in
your house?” Thus is a landlady inter-
rogated, who lets you have a room, rents it
to you, a missionary of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, and then usual-
ly the trouble begins.
	The lady of the house finds no fault with
you. You are quiet, make no trouble, and
are very modest and retiring. This may
satisfy the landlady, but it does not disarm
the neighbor in the next house, or the
adjoining one, or some houses away, who
feels the menace your presence is in the
neighborhood. Your landlady may become
interested in you, she may love to converse
with you about life in the Western World,
of the people and customs there; and, if she
be a woman of strong character, she may
allow you to stay as long as you remain in
that field. But if she is easily intimidated,
or is sensitive to the scorn or commiseration
of her friends, you may come in from tract-
ing, or a long walk, where you have pros-
trated yourself on the earth, humbled your-
self to the very dust before your Father in
heaven, to see the placard in the front win-
dow, “Apartments to Let,” and feeling as
though a cold hand clutched at your heart,
you will understand that you must go. And
that would not be so bad of itself, but you
must await the necessary developments, not
knowing the manner of your dismissal. You
may step softly, but soon you may hear,
“Those American shoes of yours must have
nails in the heels, look at the marks you
make on the linoleum!” You resolve to be
more careful, but before the day is done you
may hear, “Just look at that grease spot on
the fender! What a careless woman you
must be!” And you, with a bursting heart,
but giving no outward expression to your
aggravated feelings, may remember that
you saw the lady yourself rendering drip-
pings that very morning, and as you have
not handled any grease, know the lady is
scolding about her own carelessness.
	Another night passes away. Then comes
another day, and with it anxiety as to what
it may bring forth; you enter almost reluct-
antly upon its duties. The family breakfast

[Column 2]
is over, then you may get yours. Soon the
owner of indignant feelings discovers that
you did not clear up the crumbs on the
kitchen table, before you carried your plate
of bread into the dining-room. So from the
kitchen she calls out, “Why did you not
clear up the litter you made, not leave it
lying around here?” Very meekly you may
say, “I thought we might want to cut some
more but will clear it away as soon as we
are through.”
	Then, feeling you can stand no more,
when the lady comes into the room you say,
“I suppose you want us to get another
place?” You are not surprised when she
says, “I think you had better.” A little
later, when sitting in your own room up-
stairs deeply interested in writing a letter
home—with no mention of what you
are required to submit to—the landlady
enters. You do not look up, you feel the
presence, and that is sufficient. She has
dashed the dishes around, after you leave
the table, in her ugly temper breaking a
pretty china mug, but this you must not
notice, but continue the writing. In a
changed voice she addresses you:
	“Mrs. Alder, do not think any more about
what occurred this morning. I have a
nasty temper, do not think anything more
about it.”
	“Then do you wish us to stay?”
	“It will be just as well, you might find
a worse home.”
	“Home!” What a mockery it seems!
Still we are grateful that we did not have
to walk miles, perhaps, that day, going to
the door of every house where the sign in
the window reads, “Apartments to Let,” only
to be told, “We only take gentlemen,” or
that they are very expensive, more than a
modest missionary could pay, or that the
woman would say, when you asked about
her room, “How do I know but that as
soon as my back is turned, you will not be
going through my bureau drawers?” This
not only might happen, but it did, at the
last place before we came here. It chanced
that one of the Saints lived near here, and to
her you go and tell her of it.
	“I will go with you and see her, I think
it will be all right.”
	The sister assured the landlady that she
would be responsible for everything that I
might steal out of the house. Even under
these conditions you feel glad that you found
at least a temporary abiding place.
	These pictures fade from your mind, now
that you need not go away, and you thank
God, who has softened the woman’s heart,
not even asking how it came about.
	On the next day it is explained. Two
friends we had made while tracting, whom
we had visited in sickness, had called upon
a friend of their’s who lived across the
street.
	“Do you know we have two Mormon
women across the, road?” they were asked.
	“Yes,” they replied. “And if we all had
as much pure religion as they have, the
world would be better; for they have visited
us in sickness, and never mentioned their
own faith—but only that we might become
well.”
	So a kind act, quietly ministering to these,
—perhaps of those whom the Father gave
to his Son, to be His very own—had brought
a blessing when it was sorely needed. All
these thoughts pass through the mind, as
we wonder what the next field will bring.
	Then, too, there are the Saints whom we
have learned to love, to whom one’s heart
goes out in sympathy for their ostracised

[Column 3]
condition, being in the world, but not of it.
Will they remain faithful? Sometime will
they gather to Zion, where those dear boys
and girls may never more feel the scorn of
the world? And the friends, what of them?
Have you done your best; been wise as may
be, not giving them strong meat, but just
feeling after them with solicitude? And
those two friends who invited you to their
home, seeking for comfort. But you did
not know that they had heart sorrows until
you went, then they were unfolded to you.
In vain they had sought elsewhere for some-
thing to ease their hearts, and give them
peace. At last they say, “Our brother
died a few years ago, a suicide, what will
be his fate?”
	Staggered by the announcement, and
deeply grieved, you look into the earnest
faces before you, while a silent prayer for
wisdom and knowledge rises up from your
heart. You do not know the circumstances,
nor what lead up to the act, so cannot enter
into it, but the Gospel is tidings of joy, of
that you can speak, and of the love of God
that encompasseth all things, and that He
consigns not to endless torment, but the
punishment is according to the degree of
sin. And, oh, you are so glad to see peace
enter into that home, even though they do
not at this time accept of that which is so
precious to you. The strong oak of that
house had fallen on the earth, not by an-
other’s act, but by his own. The tender
vines that years of close companionship had
wound around him had fallen to the ground.
Now the tendrils were putting forth little
shoots, feeling for something on which to
cling and grow anew.
	“Blessed are they that mourn, for they
shall be comforted.”
	There is one other with whom we grieved
to part. One day, tracting from door to
door, in the center of the town, we knocked
at one where a sweet faced woman, with a
big boy in her arms, answered it.
	“Will you accept of a Gospel tract to read?
The spoiled boy is rude, it is with difficulty
she holds him, but she says:
	“What denomination are you?”
	You give the usual answer, but she has
never heard of such a people. You are glad
when she says,
	“I am going to move to —— Street,
and would be pleased to have you call,
there.”
	Of course, in a little time you went, only
to find they had gone on their holidays.
Later you find her home, and you are in-
vited in. The troublesome boy is at his
grandmother’s, and you can tell her of the
real nature of the Gospel.
	“My husband has heard of your people,”
she said. “Won’t you come some evening
when he is at home? I would like him to
meet you.”
	Yes, you will be glad to call, and you find
this to be an ideal, happy home. You love
this dear lady—cannot help it—and the
thought comes, “If I win only one soul to
Christ, how great my joy will be!” And so
far as I know, this was the only one, this
fair, precious, tender woman, who accepted
the Gospel, who heard of it first from my
lips.
	But she will come to London, to the Con-
ference. I shall see her again.
	Now, the packing all done, forth we go to
bid the subjects of our thoughts good bye.
