AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
[LIFE AND TRAVELS OF NANCY M. TRACY.]
		(Continued from page 39.)
	My ninth and last son was born the 19th
of June, in 1854. Charles Albert, my second
son living, was called to go among the
Lamanites, and then my eldest son, Eli A.,
went. They called the place where they
went Fort Supply, but in the winter Eli, the
eldest, was brought home very sick with
mountain fever. His wife, Eliza A. Tracy,
stayed with me, for they had married the
Christmas before. He was brought home
very sick, and lay in a low state for a long
time, but good nursing, such as a wife and
mother can give, brought him all right in due
time. In the spring he went back and took
his wife with him, and their first child was
born while they were there. When the child
was six months old they came home.
	In the spring of 1857, April 25, Mosiah,
our son, went to California. This grieved
us sorely and caused us to mourn. If we
had buried him by the side of his brother
we would not have felt as we did under the
circumstances that he went away under, but he
became dissatisfied with what had transpired
and, to use his own language, he said, under
existing circumstances, he could not stay
here. His father said, as he bid him good-
by, that he would never see him again, and
he never did.
	This spring we moved back on our farm
from the Fort. My husband was sick a
good deal of the time, and did not like to
travel back and forth to see after his work,
so we came back in September the 18th,
1857.
	My first daughter was born, this being my
tenth child. It being our first girl, we
thought to give her a long name—Mary
Ellen Naomi.
	That winter the brethren were out nearly
the whole winter keeping back Johnston’s
army, but my husband’s health was so poor
he could not go with the rest. It was the
first time he had ever stayed behind when
there had been any trouble, he was constant-
ly worrying and fretting because he could
not go with the brethren; he was too sick.
	In the spring of ’58 word came from our
leaders that we were all to move south, so
we had no seed put in the ground, because
we did not expect to be here to harvest, and
if the army came in to take possession the
people were intending to commit the whole
to the flames before they should possess the
dwellings and houses of the Saints; and
after the desert had been subdued from a
wild waste and made to yield abundantly
and bloom with the bounties of the earth. I
say the Saints were going to make one gen-
eral sacrifice. There were men left to watch
their movements while the Saints were


[Column 1]
traveling south. Eli A., our eldest son,
was one that stayed. He sent his wife
and child on with the rest to the south. All
the help I had was Austin. He was four-
teen years old; the team to drive and loose
stock, husband sick and baby in my arms,
it was worse than it was in crossing the
plains for me. When we got to Salt Lake
City, we stopped for a month and then
moved on. The towns were nearly all
vacated. We got as far as Provo, and my
husband had three paralytic strokes, but in
a few days we traveled on with him, got as
far as Payson and could go no further with
him. We camped and built a shade with
willows, to break off the hot sun by day
and the dew by night. In this situation I
remained with him day after day, not ex-
pecting he would live. Sister Jane Calvin,
a widow, with her family, was camped near
by. She used to help me when she could.
These were trying times and hard times. My
children, too, were getting destitute of
clothing, but I did not allow myself to mur-
mur or complain. My husband said if he
could live to see his family in their home
once more he would be willing then to die,
and the Lord granted him the desire of his
heart, for there had been a compromise
made with the army, and they were to pass
through and go to their quarters peaceably,
and word came that all could go back to
their homes. We did not stay long after
this message came, but took my sick hus-
band and started for home. We got there
on the fourth day of July, and were truly
thankful to get to a place of rest. My hus-
band was so glad to get back that he revived
and went around the place to look after
things, and tried to save some volunteer
wheat, for that was all that grew on the
place in this year. He kept around until
the 1st of August, then was prostrated and
never rallied again, and died on the 25th of
the same month, 1858. His sufferings were
very great until death relieved him. Our
eldest son was not at home and did not
know of his father’s death. There were only
three wagons to go with me to bury him.
The people had but few of them returned
from the move south.
	I felt very lonely and worn down, but God
strengthened me in my afflictions, as He
ever had in all my sorrow, and made me
equal to every task in all our married life,
which had been twenty-eight years. We
had been mobbed and driven from place to
place. The longest we had ever lived in
one place was in Nauvoo; we lived there
eight years, before our expulsion from Illi-
nois. We moved twice while there, but it
was to better our condition.
	In two or three weeks after I buried my
husband my litile girl, now one year old,was
taken very sick, and I thought for a while that
she would follow her father. It seemed that
my cup of sorrow was running over, but the
Lord heard my prayers, and she was raised
up to me again.
	I had received letters from my son, Mos-
iah, who had been gone two years. He
gave me his address, and I wrote to him of
his father’s death, and how he grieved
about him. He wrote to me that he would
come home, if his life was spared, but he has
never come, and whether dead or alive, I
know not.
	Winter was approaching, my children des-
titute of clothing, and but little to feed
them on; I did not know what to do. I
had my hay cut, and had more than my
stock would consume. I had a chance to
sell some for shoes and store pay, which I

[Column 2]
was glad to do. This helped me out for the
winter. I think I sold twenty dollars worth
of hay. I felt very grateful for this bless-
ing; this scant allowance had to fit us up
for the winter, but it was not sufficient for
our comfort,for by my husband’s lengthy ill-
ness and death, and not raising anything on
account of the move to the south, we were
left in close circumstances.
	Spring came again. I tried to put in
what seed I could get, it was very hard to
get seed. I borrowed some wheat to sow by
giving interest, and got along the best I
could under the circumstances. Hard times
stared me in the face, until harvest came.
This was new to me, to have to manage out-
door affairs. I was not equal to the task,
my eldest son had a family of his own to
take care of, and the one left to help me was
only fifteen years old, and was all the help
I had; consequently, as my husband’s
brother’s farm adjoined mine, he proposed
looking after our interests and working the
farm. I consented to this proposition, and
was married to him for time, April, 1860. I
felt this would release me from so great a
care and responsibility as I had resting upon
me. I felt completely worn down with toil
and hardship, of which my whole life had
been made up. After embracing the Gos-
pel it had been one continual scene of perse-
cution and sacrifice of our property, from
our first gathering with the Saints in Kirt-
land, Ohio. Sometimes I felt I could not
endure any more, and then the Heavenly
Father would strengthen me and I felt to be
humble and prayerful, knowing that God’s
people always had to suffer persecution. I
felt that my religion was more to me than
all the world might be, and I felt deter-
mined to live it, let come what would,
Through all my sufferings I never doubted,
but felt to cling to the Gospel, as also to en-
courage others all in my power to do the
same. I also felt to teach my family the
principles of the true and everlasting Gospel,
to listen to and obey the counsels of the
Lord’s anointed.
	In September, 1861, I had a daughter born
by this second husband. I was now forty-
four years of age and broken down in health,
but, with the help of God, was enabled to
attend to my household duties and take care
of my children, besides making what home
wear I could to clothe them. It is a marvel
to me now, when I look upon my past life,
my journeyings in poverty, persecution, sac-
rifice and sufferings, midst sickness and
death, I say, I marvel that I am alive today
to tell the tale, and it is more than the
power of mortal man that has sustained and
preserved me see 1885 ushered in. It is
truly a day that is great with events, and
none but the true Latter-day Saints under-
stand the signs of the times and the fulfill-
ment of prophecy on the earth. The wicked
are slaying the wicked, the earthquakes, de-
struction by sea and by land, collisions of
cars on railroads and nation rising against
nation, as has been told us by the prophets.
Has it not been said that those who will
not take up the sword would flee to Zion?
This will come true, for the Latter-day Saints
will be the only people at peace, and wil

[Column 3]
cling to the Constitution to save it, while the
enemies are threshing it into shreds and are
full of animosity and hatred towards the
Kingdom of God, and truly when the wicked
rule, the people mourn. But when we see
all these things taking place, we know the
end is near and the Kingdom of God will
prevail, therefore let us be firm and true,
for it must needs be that offences come, but
woe to them by whom they come.
	I will now make an end of my narrative,
and perhaps in the future my children’s chil-
dren may read with some degree of interest
this short history, although not a hundredth
part hath been told. Farewell.
