WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE LAMANITE REMEMBERED.
	When the Prophet Moroni had finished
his records and lain them away, in their
sepulchre of stone on the side of the Hill
Cumorah, the last ray of gospel truth upon
this continent had been entombed and
rested near the crest of the stately hill, which
stood as a sublime monument in the midst
of, perhaps, one of the largest cemeteries
that this earth had ever known.
	Moroni, left to weep alone, and yet, as
his tearful eyes still gazed upon the slayers
of the Nephite nation, he knew they were his
kindred. And while he watched them re-
cede, as they wondered away in disorganized

[Column 2]
bands, his heart yearned after them, and he
prayed, with all the fervor of his soul, that
God would remember them at the last day.
	Who can tell how often he came and
guarded that sacred spot, or how he, with
thousands of his own brethren in the spirit
world, rejoiced when they knew the time
had come which Nephi had seen in his vis-
ion: “And I looked and beheld a man
among the Gentiles who was separated from
the seed of my brethren by the many waters.
And I beheld the Spirit of God that it came
down and wrought upon the man; and he
went forth upon the many waters, even un-
to the seed of my brethren who were in the
promised land.”
	The time had come, and the Spirit whose
eye is everywhere, chose to rest upon a man
away in sunny Italy—Columbus, enamored
of the seas, a designer of maps, whose lines
he ever yearned to carry beyond the limited
horizon of his own native land. A spirit
inexplicable to him had rested upon him. A
powerful influence dominating him with a
spirit of persistence which withstood the
ridicule and jeers of those whom he impor-
tuned, and of the public in general, for the
space of many years, until finally a woman
listened to and gave him sympathy and
support, dropping the jewels from her royal
fingers, raised her hand to help him.

		Again the oft-repeated story,
		A woman helped him on to glory.

	And from the position of laughing stock
for the public, he became commander-in-
chief of three small vessels, to carry him
whither he might wander, even to other
climes and skies anew, until he might satis-
fy the longing of his soul to set his feet on
some unknown land.
	Led by a mighty faith, some invisible
magnet drawing him on until, finally his
eyes beheld the Promised Land, and he saw
the shores of the same great continent which
had been discovered by the family of Lehi
hundreds of years before.
	The very breezes welcomed him by hold-
ing the flag of Spain aloft in their embrace.
The natives, realizing as little the meaning
of that fluttering banner as did Columbus
understand the magnitude of the work he
had accomplished. Centuries have passed,
and we ask in what way have the native
children of this vast continent been bene-
fitted by the numerous colonizers who have
followed on the ocean trail of Columbus?
	The “mysterious ways” of Providence
have drawn from Spain and diffused among
the more numerous powerful tribes two in-
estimable blessings. The Spanish language
has been as connecting wires between vil-
lages and cities long estranged and antag-
onistic to each other. The Catholic priests
did a commendable work in their untiring
zeal to teach them a language which was a
great factor in bringing the inhabitants of
Mexico together and uniting them in organ-
izing government. If she did not send the
fullness of the true faith she sent them what-
ever remants of it she had in her possession.
She announced to them the existence ot a
Redeemer, even though she despoiled them
and remunerated herself richly for the glim-
mer of light she had thrown around them.
These two incalculable blessings have paved
the way to a greater work. Even as the
three small ships of Columbus marked the
way for mightier ones, so these blessings of
language and a belief in the savior have
opened the way for a fullness of all the
blessings of the gospel.
	A universal language was indespensible

[Column 3]
in unfolding to them the contents of the rec-
ords of their forefathers and the great truths
they contain, which would have been utterly
impractible in their hostile and divided con-
dition, amid the confusion of their numer-
ous and degraded dialects.
	The prayer of Moroni has beem remem-
bered, and the way has been opened for the
salvation of the remnant of the seed of the
Lamanites. May we, who are in possession
of the sacred record, be as diligent and have
as much zeal for them as did the Catholic
church in giving them the most musical and
sublime of all modern languages.
