HOME AFFAIRS.

 REMINDER: Relief Society Stake Secretaries
are expected to forward semi-annual reports to
September 15th, 1881, for the approaching Con-
ference.
 THE Secretaires of the several Branch Relief
Societies of this Stake, will please send in their
reports no later than the 5th of September, 1881.
Direct to, ELIZABETH HOWARD, Stake Sec'y.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young and Dr. Ellen B. Fergu-
son expect to leave this city for the East about
the 20th inst.  We wish them a pleasant jour-
ney and trust they may do much good where-
ever they  may have an opportunity of speaking
in public or in private.
	The Children's Fair for Salt Lake County
Primary Associations will be held in this city
Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, September
15, 16, and 17, under the auspices of Mrs. Ellen
C. S. Clawson and her Counselors and assist-
ants.  There will be no charge made except the
price of admission to visitors, which will be for
adults 10 cents, under 12 years of age 5cts.  All
the associations are invited to bring specimens
of work.  It is anticipated that this Fair will be
held in the Social hall.
 CLASSES in Obstetrics: Dr. R. B. Pratt's class
in this branch of the medical profession, consist-
ing of six ladies have just finished their course
of study and lectures, and passed their examina-
tion satisfactorily, with credit to themselves and
the Dr.  The ladies are Elizabeth M. Jones,
South Cotton Wood, Sarah J. Banks, Spanish
Fork, Jane M. Howell, Clifton, Idaho. Lucy
Ann H. Woolf, Hyde Park. M. E. G. Vanschoo-
ven and Lucy Pratt Russell of this city.  The lad-
ies were blest and set apart for their professional
work, Saturday, August 13th, by President Jos-
eph F. Smith and counselor Daniel H. Wells.
	Their certificates are signed by Doctors Ellen
B. Ferguson and Romania B. Pratt.  These
sisters are going out among the people to enter
practically with due appreciation of its import-
ance upon this work.  They are women of experince
and accustomed to attending upon the sick.


THE following notice from the "San Francisco
Chronicle" was received, with a card bearing the
compliments of the lady and gentleman and a
pretty Japanese napkin, fine and soft as crape.
The lady is the daughter of Judge W. W. Phelps
(deceased) and an occasional contributor to the
EXPONENT.
		A TIN WEDDING.
	Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Lane were agreeably sur-
prised at their residence, No. 404 Capp street,
on Saturday evening last by a large party of
friends, who reminded them that they intended
to celebrate the tenth anniversary of their wed-
ded life by showering on the still youthful
couple a varied assortment of tinware, sufficient
in quantity to sink a ship. Prominent among the
presents were a large tin cradle, a complete din-
ner service, also of tin, on which the surprisers
afterwards served a bountiful collation, and a
gigantic tin star, emblematic of Mr. Lane's con-
nection with the Police Department. After do-
ing justice to the good things provided a most en-
joyable evening was spent by the assembled
guests in exchanging reminiscences of the past,
dancing, singing, etc.


