WINTER QUARTERS.

	Shortly after the settlement at Winter Quar-
ters, I do not remember the date, living next to
the Historian's Office, I had the privilege of
seeing a copy of a vision, President Young had
at that time and being permitted to take items
from it, I copied what I felt would be a com-
fort and benefit to me on my long journeying,
about to take place, for I was about to visit
England my native land, with my husband who
was going upon a mission, and I felt I needed
something to say to the people. I give it here


as near as possible having copied it from the
original manuscript.
	Joseph stepped towards me and looking very
earnestly, yet pleasantly said, "Tell the people
to be humble and faithful, and be sure to keep
the spirit of the Lord, and it will lead them
right; be careful and not turn away the still
small voice: it will teach you how to do and
where to go; it will yield the fruits of the king-
dom: Tell the brethren to keep their hearts
open to convicton so that when the Holy Ghost
comes to them, their hearts will be ready to re-
ceive it, They can tell the Spirit of the Lord
from other spirits; it will whisper peace, and
joy to their souls; it will take malice, hatred,
strife and all evil from their hearts; and their
whole desire will be to do good, bring forth
righteousness and build up the kingdom of God.
Tell the brethren if they will follow the Spirit
of the Lord they will go right.
	Be sure to tell the people to keep the Spirit of
the Lord and if they will, they will find them-
selves just as they were organized by our Father
in Heaven, before they came into the world.
Our Father in Heaven organized the human
family, but they are all disorganized and in
great confusion." Joseph then showed me the
pattern, how they were in the beginning. This
I cannot describe; but I saw it, and saw when
the Priesthood had been taken from the earth,
and how it must be joined together so as to make
a perfect chain from Father Adam to his latest
posterity. Tell the people to be sure to keep the
Spirit of the Lord, and follow it, and it will lead
them just right."
	It seemed that Brother Young was shown
into a place where he saw Joseph sitting a little
higher than the floor where he stood, with some
persons around him, but being so overjoyed to
see Joseph he went straight to salute him when
he found a barrier of some kind which pre-
vented him approaching nearer. Joseph said,
you cannot come now, but must wait awhile
till your work is done; and then conversed a
good while with him concerning events past and
to come, when about to leave, he, Brigham,
asked Joseph what he should say to the people
from him, upon which the piece I have now
copied from the manuscript was the answer.
								S. G. R.


