BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Burton, the great traveler and historian of
the 19th century, visited Utah some few years
ago, and spent some time in Salt Lake City,
and afterwards wrote and published a large
volume of his travels, observations, and experi-
ences therein, and named his book "The City of
the Saints." Truth and common sense views of
all he saw, embellish its pages. Burton must
have possessed naturally a large heart, and a
broad brain, and his life of travel, his inter-
course with people of different nations, and his
experiences therein, had expanded still further
those noble organs, and rendered him, in his
views, and in his judgment cosmopolitan; the
Book is decidedly the finest and most just ac-
count that has ever been given by an "out-
sider;" his descriptions are graphic, and hu-
morous, and show that he had made a study of
that nucleus of the human family he found
located in this remote region; he viewed them
with the eye of a philosopher, if nothing high-
er, and had arrived at an extraordinary com-
prehension of the problem embodied in this
peculiar people, and candidly acknowledged

[Column 2]
that there was an under current, a Gulph-stream,
if you please, that was not fathomed by a cur-
sory view of the surface of things, etcetera.
The picture he drew of President Brigham
Young is most complimentary, and apprecia-
tive as a governor and a ruler; no low sar-
casm, or inuendo blurs its pages, it seems the
clear comprehension of his mind gave no room
for anything but truth, and he honestly por-
trayed the same. It is years since I read his
book but the spirit of it will never leave my
mind. I borrow Burton's title of his book for
my little essay, and feel I honor him by so
doing. It seems to me that every candid,
truthful mind cannot stand in this city, and
walk or ride through its environs without be-
ing singularly impressed with the conviction
that there is a spirit broods over it, breathes in
its atmosphere, encircles it daily and nightly,
intactible, invisible, yet impressing every mind
that is pure, venerative, and open to receive
its revealings. I remember the time when I
heard tales about this location that eclipsed
"The Arabian Nights," and indeed many
doubted whether it had a tangible existence, or
whether it was not a chimera of some visionary
romantic brain, on which "marvelousness"
over-ruled every other organ! But years have
passed, a little world has been gathered here,
explorers have come from the East and from the
West, the North and the South, and to-day
Salt Lake City, the metropolis of Utah, is as
well known all over the world as London,
the metropolis of England.
	On July 21st, 1847, six persons rode on to the
spot of ground around which now stands this
beautiful city, they were the "outriders" of the
Pioneers. They threw themselves from their
steeds, and weary and worn reclined on the
bosom of Mother Earth. My readers, I leave
you to imagine the unspeakable feelings of
those wanderers! It seems I can conjure them
very near the truth, though not one of the first
pioneers—all may well take lawfully that name
—pioneers all and each have been in their own
individuality, and feeelings of the same calibre
and nature, have more or less inflated every
one as they set foot on this consecrated
ground! What volumes might be written,
what romantic incidents, thoughts, feelings,
aspirations, what absolute devotion, might be
the subjects for these volumes, but I realize
there is assuredly a "Recording Angel," and I
glory in the conviction; glorious, mighty being
though he is, he has dropped many a tear over
the trials, the lacerating, soul-harrowing trials
of a true Latter-day Saint.
	But the city!! It is the beautiful city I took
pen in hand to endeavor to describe. When
those six human beings came upon this spot,
—not a tree, not a shrub, not a blade of grass
were seen—sage brush and the appearance of
an arid desert were all that met their eyes.
Then! and Now! What volumes might be
filled from the interim! It does seem to me
that a thinking mind, a business mind, that
does know something of how cities are laid out,
and then built, also that this people were com-
paratively a poor people—bone and sinew were
their capital, that they were an ignorant peo-
ple, that is, a man might be an artist, unac-
customed to rough work, he joins the Church,
he comes to the gathering place of the Saints.
	Utility is the watchword. Will he not feel
his ignorance when he finds no place for his
studio, no use for the fine arts? but he bravely
strips of his coat and takes the spade, or th

[Column 3]
mortar hod, and does his best and God helps
him. Blessed is the poor man who has been
used to labor, his trial here is comparatively
small. But I was marveling how intelligent
minds cannot see and feel, that there is a power
with this people that the world does not pos-
sess. I believe that many do see and feel all
this, but they wilfully shut their eyes, they
stop their ears, yea even "to the voice of the
charmer!" Yes indeed there is something
mysterious and singular in this obscure and
isolated people, and the homes that they have
built by "the sweat of their brow" with mea-
gre facilities, and small means of every sort,
cash at a premium, yet here stands a city to-
day of no mean pretensions. Here are some
beautiful mansions and lovely gardens, and
fruit and flowers in abundance. Here is go-
ing up our sublime Temple, the most unique,
the finest in every sense of the word, the most
stupendous of any building in the West. Or-
nament and embellishment had for years to
stand back, till utility had accomplished her
mission, but they have been peeping out all
the time like children waiting to be admitted
to the dessert.
	Now they stand out in bold relief, and every
year sees our city putting on her "singing
robes," and she will yet be the prima donna of
the political American Theatre. Our location
is said to be 4,000 feet above sea level, a per-
fect nest, most aptly called "The Great Basin,"
and hence we have a pure, rarified atmosphere,
calm, without supineness, bold without reck-
lessness, strong, without rage, and clear even to
marvelousness, and this will continue unbroken
for weeks, perhaps months; it is full of the ele-
ments of health, so much so, that none can long
remain sick; if persons with pulmonary disease
come here they are soon restored, or the grave
receives them; but if the constitution is good, res-
toration is certain. The high altitude causes
an increased action of the heart, and hence the
whole system responds to the impetus, and pro-
duces a change which on some individuals is
marvelous, especially upon the European.

To be continued.


