SUFFRAGE PETITION OF ITALIAN
				WOMEN
				    -----
	The following is a translation of the petition
for the franchise which is now being circulated
for signatures in Italy by the Milanese "League
to promote Woman's Interests."  The greatest
care is being taken in the collection of signa-
tures, as in a former session, the petition, which
was to the Upper and Lower House, was re-
jected on the ground that by some misunder-
standing all the signatures were not autographs,
although their good faith was guaranteed by
both Houses.  There will be no fear of a similar
mistake this year;--
To the Italian Parliament.
 HONORABLE GENTLEMEN!--Women citizens
not having been included hitherto in the right
of voting, even when that vote is called univer-
sal, appears to us no argument why the justice
and folly of such exclusions should be con-
tinued.
	Women have the same relations towards the
State as other citizens.  They are subject to
the same civil and penal laws; they pay the
same taxes.  The measures which provide for,
affect, or punish men, provide for, affect, and
punish us also.
	The influence of good or bad laws, the pros-
perity of peace and the disasters of war, ed-
ucational institutions and social customs are
equally felt by us; while more disastrous for
us are the effects of bad laws, such as those
made in our absence cannot fail to be, express-
ing only present interests, and sacrificing or
imperfectly understanding absent interests.
	That if women might be resigned to their
exclusion so long as the reform of the franchise
was based on circumstances accessory to citizen-
ship, they cannot and ought not to be resigned
when this right is based upon natural capacity
and is called university.
	It is impossible not to acknowledge that the
agricultural laborers, from lack of communica-
tion with other classes, isolation from cultivated
and civilized centres, and the nature of their
labor, live in conditions opposed to intelligence
and comprehension of national interests.  They
cannot be compared to the mass of women, who
are spread through every social scale, and con-
tain multitudes devoted to teaching, to industry,
to commence, to professions which require gen-
eral or special culture, and who live in active
centres of public life and continued social fric-
tion.  How can the exercise of the vote be
accorded to the less capable and refused to the
more intelligent?
	In all arguments based on the difference of
our duties, we cannot accept our exclusion as
the legitmate conclusion, but rather an increased
urgency for claiming the vote.  If the conserva-
tion and guardianship of the race be ours, if
our mission demands of loftier range of ideas--
then neither war, assassination, libertinism,
drunkenness, violence or arbitrary force of
any kind can find any class more interested in
their repression, because it has everything to
lose in barbarism and all to gain in civilization
our mission to guard and sustain the human
race renders everything, which degrades and
injures that race most abhorent to us.


