		ELIZA WOODS WALLIN.

	"Yet less of sorrow lives in me
	For days of happy commune dead;
	Less yearning for the friendship fled,
	Than some strong bond which is to be.”

	It is always painful to record the death of
those we love and particularly sad when the cir-
cumstances are harrowing. A mother in the
prime of life taken from the bosom of her fami-
ly seems lamentable, yet God's ways are not as
our ways and we can only bow our heads in
meek submission and say, "Thy will not mine
be done O Lord,"

	"And if, through patient toil, we reach the land
	Where tired feet with sandals loosed may rest,
	Where we shall clearly know and understand,
	I think that we will say, 'God knew the best.'"

	Mrs. Eliza Woods Wallin, whose death occur-
red in this city at ten minutes past six o'clock
Wednesday morning, August 3d, 1881, was the
beloved wife of C. E. Wallin and only sister of
Major W. W. Woods, also the neice of Counselor
D. H. Wells. Mrs. Wallin died of puerperal
peritonitis, one week after her confinement, and
left an infant daughter which only survived the
mother two days. The deceased lady was the
daughter of James and Catherine Wells Woods,
and was born in Burlington, Iowa, February 10,
1843, and was aged 38 years, five months and 23
days at the time of her death. Mrs. Wallin
came to Utah previous to her marriage in the
spring of 1872, and has resided here ever since.
She was married to C. E. Wallin in October
of the same year, and has been the mother of
four children, three daughters and one son.
Three of them live to miss the love and atten-
tion of as kind and devoted a mother as ever
lived. They are too young as yet to realize the
dreadful loss they have sustained.

				"There is none,
In all this cold and hollow world, no fount
Of deep strong deathless love, save that within
A mother's heart!"

	Mrs. Wallin was indeed a tender, watchful,
solicitous mother, a true and affectionate wife,
a wise, prudent and efficient counselor to her
husband. She was amiable and exemplary in
character, and greatly endeared herself to her
relatives and friends for the many estimable
qualities of heart and mind which she possessed.
The lady has an aged father residing in Ham-
burg, Iowa, who will be deeply affected by her
sudden death. Mrs. Wallin was tenderly cared
for in her last illness by her brother's wife, Mrs.
W. W. Woods, assisted by other dear friends.
	The funeral was held in St. Mark's Church on
Thursday, at four o'clock p.m., Rev. Mr. Kirby
officiating. The hymn "Nearer my God to
Thee," was very beautifully rendered by the
choir. Mrs. Wallin was buried by the side of
her brother, N. P. Woods, Esq., who died in
this city a few years ago. On Saturday morn-
ing, Aug. 7, the grave of Mrs. Wallin was open-
ed and her infant daughter, Mabel Blanche, was
placed in the tomb with her mother.
	There are many dear relatives and friends
here and elsewhere who will sincerely mourn
the death of the dear departed one. May hea-
ven bless the bereaved family and especially the
little ones so early deprived of a loving mother's
care and tenderness.			E. B. W.


