THE DAYS OF OUR GRANDMOTHERS.

	The fact can scarcely be overlooked that in
the matter of fashion in many respects we are
a hundred years back in the days of our ances-
tors. This has been brought about principally
through the Centennial Exhibition of 1876,
when people were called upon to rake up every
old styles, and garrets and worm-eaten chests
and drawers were ransacked and revising and
renewing drew out the beauty and utility of
those old clothing materials, crockery, furniture
etc., and now we have the same styles and col-
ors with various improvements, and all the old
designs of crockery, furniture and tapestry.
	It is a great pity that withal we have not
initiated ourselves into those habits of industry
and economny that characterized our fore-
mothers and also adopted the elegant manners
and deportment of the ladies and gentlemen of
that age. This would have been greatly to our
credit, for with the vast improvements in all
the departments of life and labor, it is ap-
parent to the observer in modern society every-
where that to a great extent the true elegance
of modest manners has departed. I know there
are some who say it is the fault of women more
than men; that girls are so forward now-adays
placing themselves on a footing with men, and
certainly men will not pay them the same a-
mount of deference they were wont to do, when
they were more modest and retiring.
	It may be hard in the midst of a revolution
in society such as the agitation of equal suf-
frage is making to maintain a proper balance,
it is always so with all radical changes, but I
protest against this decay in manners being
due to the influence of suffrage at all. The
young women of to-day in what is termed polite
society, and it is the young women who rule
and not their elders, and this is another evil of
which we may justly complain are not what
may be turned suffragists, O, no, they do not
believe in it—in fact they do not comprehend
the subject at all—it is too fatiguing for them
to understand they would not worry their
brains with it they are willing to leave all that,
to those who are acquainted with the subject.
They would not be considered as belonging to a
reform, the word horrifies them; indeed their
health would not admit of so much exertion as
voting and attending meetings would require.
No, these young ladies would dance all night

[Column 2]

figure at watering places and public resorts of
that character, but could not possibly bear to
go to the polls or speak in public.
	It may be that there was a little too much
formality in days gone by, and in dispensing
with a portion of it we have gone to the other
extreme.
	Free Americanism we often hear, made the
cause of all this license in manners. "We don't
bow the knee to any living one" and so on,
but the Scripture says "honor to whom honor
is due" and one of the Ten Commandments
expressly declares "honor thy father and
thy mother" etc. It is sometimes said this
is the homage of the heart and does not consist
so much in action, but I persist in believing
that there is much in manner. Rudeness and
coarseness in manner is offensive to a sensitive
nature, and there is no doubt it is also dispeas-
ing to God.
	Every one must acknowledge upon reflection
at least, that to go into the presence of angels
or great and holy beings, one would need be
qualified, and yet go on from year to year,
here below where there is every facility for
improvement totally regardless of advancement
and actually sneering at those who are making
efforts towards a preparation for a higher
sphere.
	Politeness is conducive to kindness and also
to peace and good order, and gentleness of man-
ner is indicative of a noble heart. Rudeness
and uncouth manners tend to confusion and
disorder, and are not a sign of genuine, sterling
qualities of soul, although I know it is some-
times so interpreted. Deference to others even
in one's own family begets in return the same
kindliness and engenders a better feeling, than
so much familiarity and disregard of ceremoney
We reveal ourselves perpetually in our deport-
ment, and it is the standard by which we must
in some measure be judged, at least by those to
whom we are not intimately known.
	The Apostle said "shun the appearance of
evil," which must have related to one's actions
or manners. What a man or woman does,
tells what they are; words are not always to
be relied upon, for often actions do not corre-
spond with them. The pretty little formalities
and courtesies of life which were customary in
olden times, at least a century ago, tend much
more to grace of manner and refinement, than
the brusque and forward manners which pass
muster in the present day. A moderate amount
of diffidence, is preferable to over much con-
fidence, and a prudent reserve in one's behavior
is much more elegant and impressive than the
attempt at breaking down all restraint, regard-
less of the principles of order which must be
maintained if people would preserve their self-
respect. Therefore I will say again, let us
encourage some return to the manners of the
past, as well as the colors, patterns and styles
of dress and ornimentation.
	The industries too of our ancestry are dying
out, and giving place to ease and luxury, which
are fatal to the highest culture of the mind or
soul. Ladies of leisure do not now apply them-
selves to the useful employments they once did.
Industry amounts to a virtue, for idleness is as
much the parent of vice in the palace of the
rich as in the cottage of the poor. The woman
who spends her days in idle dreaming, fritters
her time away in promenades, balls and such
like places is just as culpable as the poor ignor-
ant creature who revels in gossip and retails
scandal.
	We talk of our daughters becoming like
polished stones, but unless we change our tacties,
they are very likely to fall short of the high
standard of attainment we had marked out.
Solomon said "Give her of the fruit of her
hands and let her own works praise her in the
gates." We are not told that this applies to
the poor only, we understand it like all other
Scripture as applying to the rich as well as the

[Column 3]

poor. There are a class of people who seem
to think money is an excuse for all manner of
rudenesses to others, and by their tone of voice
and insolence of manner toward the industrious
who earn their own living, betray their lack of
politeness, and respect for genuine ability.
	This class of ladies and gentlemen cannot
compare with the high-bred and well-bred gen-
tlemen and gentlewomen of the days of our
grandmothers; notwithstanding all the im-
provements of the age and the grandeur of our
modern society.
