NOTES AND NEWS.
	MRS. Ednah D. Cheney at the Concord
School of Philosophy read a paper on "The
Relation of Science to Poetry."  Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe also read a paper,on the Philosohpy
and Philosopher of Europe and America."
	MRS AMELIA BLOOMER (after whom the
Bloomer costume was named),of Council Bluffs,
Iowa,was invited by the Territorial Legislature
of Nebraska, 1855, to address them on the sub-
ject of Woman Suffrage.  As the result of her
address, a bill in favor of it passed the House
and came to its third reading in the Council
and was only lost because some members talked
to kill time, to prevent the passage of a bill for
removing the Capitol.

 THE dream of the greediest avarice has been
outdone, and the Morning Post, the organ of
the aristocracy, and the favorite paper, accord-
ing to all the society novelists, of the Duchess
and the Marchioness,may be bought in the bye-
ways for a penny, like any such lesser lights of
journalism as the Telegraph or the News.  Sir
Algernon Borthwick has changed neither the
shape nor the appearance of his paper.  It is
still printed exactly as it was, retains its details.


of the movements of the Upper ten thousands,
and tries to look superior to the democracy in
journalims. But its success in this respect is
less amazing than the fact that, after all, it is
only going back like the English Constitution
to the beginnings of its history for its latest de-
velopment. The Post is like the Seventh Clause
of the Land Bill. It has returned to the or-
iginal intention of its founders. "In the
hundred and ninth year of its existence," it
says in its explanatory article, "the Morning
Post reverts to the price at which it was orig-
inally published on the 2nd of November, 1772.
The pressure of stamp duties, paper duties, and
advertisement duties compelled a rise in the
price of journals, so that at the close of the
last century the cost of the Morning Post was
sixpence, and in the early years of this century
it rose to sevenpence. The successive reduc-
tions of taxation brought about corresponding
changes to fivepence, fourpence, and lastly
threepence. It has become evident that by
returning to the original price we can gain a
vast extension of political influence and yet
continue to provide our readers with a paper
in every way as excellent as that, which for up-
wards of a century has maintained its position."
Then, with a declaration that the newspaper
with its million of metal types, its latest news,
and its rapid comments, is one of the greatest
achievements of the human mind, the Post con-
cludes that he would be bold who would define
the horizon which "the Future opens to the
newspaper." It is true. We never though 
to see the Post at a penny. After that, all is
possible. Still there is room for everything.
The Post of our boyhood is dead. Long live
the Post.


