BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

	Lately in looking over some of my old letters
I found one written by my mother to her step-
mother who previous to marrying my Grandpa,
we had learned to call by the endearing name
of Aunt Fanny. She was then living in the
Town of Winchester Scott Co. Ill. She had got
this far on her journey from Kirtland to Mis-
souri when she heard of the Saints being driv-
en out. Grandpa left her there to go back in
company with my father to pay a visit to his
children in the state of New York where he
died soon after. The letter contains items that
may prove interesting to some of the old time
Saints particularly so to Bro. Evan Greene and
his wife Susan whom she speaks of; his mother
as well as Aunt Fanny were sisters to Presi-
dent Brigham Young. It was a daughter of
Bro. Evan Greene's who first edited our WOM-
AN'S EXPONENT. This letter is dated "Nau-
voo Feb. 16th, 1841. "Dear Mother:—I am glad
to hear from you once more that you are yet
alive and as comfortable as what you are. We
had anticipated much pleasure in having a
visit from you this winter but in this have been
disappointed, I still hope that you will come
the first opportunity. I have spent this day at
Bro. John P. Greene's; his children were all at
home and I had a good visit with them; but
there is a vacancy there, that never can be
filled. I have not been there before, since the
day that dear Sister Greene was buried. I re-
gretted that you could not have come before
she died, it would have been such a satisfaction
to her and you too, but do not cast any reflec-
tions upon yourself about it for I'm sure that
you would have come had it been in your pow-
er. Sister Greene and I had many a good visit
together since we came to Commerce; although
her health was so poor, yet I would sit down by
her bedside and we would take sweet counsel
together. We often wished that you were here
with us. She has now gone to rest and we
have nothing to regret but the loss of her so-
ciety which is very great. She had everything
for her comfort that she could have had, if
Brother Greene had been worth thousands and
you know he is one of the best nurses in the
world. Her children were all as kind as they
could be, especially Rhoda; she merits praise
from every beholder. I never saw such un-
ceasing care and tenderness as she manifested
for her mother during her whole sickness".
	"I shall not be particular to write all the news
as Evan and Susan can tell you more than I
can write.	*	*	*	I have not had
any news from Victor since receiving those
letters which I shall forward to you by Evan I
have perused them with great satisfaction and
feel perfectly reconciled and thankful that
father was there instead of here—If he had
died here, perhaps the children would have cast
reflections upon us for fetching him to this
sickly country; so I feel that it is all for the
best. As for myself and family we enjoy com-
fortable health this winter. I received a letter
from Heber last week bearing date of Dec. 12th
he and Brigham and the rest of the brethren
were usually well, with the exception of
George A. Smith, his lungs are so affected that
he raises blood; he is not able to preach. The
work is still rolling forth in mighty power and
persecution increasing as the work advances.
Heber says if things continue as they have for
a short time past, they shall been driven from
that land—Joseph has been afraid of it by
the spirit and has written for them to come
home in the spring. He says they will make
their escape and that is all".
	"I have many anxious feelings about them but
try to commit them into the hands of the Lord
and look forward with anticipation to the time
when we shall meet and rejoice together. We

[Column 2]
have many things to cheer and gladden our
hearts while sojourning in this vale of tears.
The Lord is again revealing his will to the
Church through his servant Joseph; there has
been a very lengthy revelation given of late
concerning the building up of this place; also
concerning all the different Quorums in the
Church. The Lord says there has been a day
of calling and now cometh a day of choosing—
I understand that the revelation is to be read
at the April Conference. I hope that you will
be here. I must now close as I have promised
Helen one page to write you.
		Yours affectionately, Vilate Kimball.
	On the 6th, of April 1841 the corner-stones
of the Nauvoo Temple were laid which I had
the privilege of witnessing,—it was a day the
Saints had anxiously looked for and was ushered
in by peals of artillery calling together the
Nauvoo Legion consisting of fourteen com-
panies and two volunteer companies of militia
from Iowa. The military were first reviewed
by Lieutenant General Joseph Smith then the
procession was formed, and marched to the
Temple grounds in the following order, which
I copy. Lieut. General Smith, Brig. Generals
Law and Smith, aides-de-camp and conspicu-
ous strangers, general staff; 2nd, Cohort (in-
fantry) ladies eight abreast, gentlemen eight
abreast, 1st. Cohort (cavalry.)
	The oration was delivered by President Rig-
don. The S. E., corner was laid by the First
Presidency; the S. W., by President Don C.
Smith and his Counselors of the High Priest
Quorum; the N. W., by the High Council. re-
presenting the Twelve Apostles who were in
Great Britain; and the N. E., corner by the
Bishops. The vast assembly then separated,
the whole having passed off in harmony and
no contention or discord having appeared."
A great many strangers from other parts were
present on this occasion and all lost sight of
their prejudices and entered into the enjoy-
ment of it with the Saints.
	On the 1st day of July my father with Presi-
dent Young and Brother John Taylor arrived
home from their mission; the families of the
latter who were left in Montrose sick, were then
living in Nauvoo on the Flat enjoying a more
comfortable degree of health. My brother,
who was still living at the landing was the first
to meet and embrace my father. The Prophet
and many more were there ready to greet and
welcome them home again, Joseph would have
them go home with him to dinner and William
hastened home to tell us the same; we thought
this almost an unkindness for it seemed so long
a time to us who were waiting and watching
with impatience to see him but soon we discov-
ered a company of horsemen coming with all
speed and when my mother saw them she made
a hasty retreat behind the door to hide her
confusion, where in a moment after father found
her overwhelmed in tears. Joseph it seemed
had ordered several horses to be saddled while
they were eating and by the time dinner was
served, which was a hasty one, the horses were
at the door and he with Brother Hyrum and
three or four brethren accompanied my father
home. My mother felt the presence of others
at such a time almost an intrusion but Brother
Joseph seemed unwilling to part with my father;
and from that time kept the Twelve in Coun-
cil early and late, and she sometimes felt nearly
jealous of him but never dreamed that he was
during those times revealing to them the prin-
ciples of Celestial Marriage and that her trials
and sacrifices which she had flattered herself
were nearly over, had scarcely begun, and they
little realized the meaning of his words when
he said "he was rolling off the kingdom from
his own shoulders on to the shoulders of the
Twelve."
	A few days after their return to Nauvoo their
Prophet's Brother Don Carlos Smith died, and
being an officer in the Legion as well as a Free

[Column 3]
Mason he was buried with Masonic and Mili-
tay rites. Those of the Masonic fraternity
marched next to the family to the grave which
was in a little grove at the foot of the hill
south west of the Temple. My mother's baby
being too sick for her to leave I went in her
stead and marched with my father in the Mas-
onic procession; and may I be pardoned for
saying it, but when he gave me his arm as we
started from home that Sabbath morn I felt
justly proud of the honor of walking with so fine
a looking gentleman as was my father and not
only that, but knowing that his constant humil-
ity and faithfulness to his duty, had won for
him the love and confidence of the Prophet and
all who knew him. Besides the sorrowing
family of Bro. Don Carlos he had a host of
sincere mourners and I felt deeply impressed
by the grand and imposing ceremonies that I
witnessed that day. The Legion and a large
procession of citizens formed hear the Temple,
and as they marched in slow and solemn order
to the house of the dead the Martial Band with
muffled drum beat to the notes of a dead
march.
	The following from Sister E.R. Snow's Poem
describes the scnen.

"I gazed upon the grand procession, till
It disappear'd amid the dwellings which
Stand thickly cluster'd near the river's edge.
I listened! all was still the music notes
No longer sounded on the pensive breeze:
But hark! the notes awaken'd, and I saw
The mighty host returning with the same
Slow, melancholy tread! A hearse was borne
Along with solemn yet bold martial pomp,
That plainly signified a MIGHTY ONE.
One of no ordinary rank, had fallen!

*		*		*		*		*		*

In nature's temple with no other wall
Than the horizon, and no other arch
Than the broad canopy of heaven shaded
With clust'ring boughs whose foliage waves around,
Is rais'd an altar to the living God.
There the procession march'd; it halted there.
And in the front of weeping relatives,
The hearse of him was plac'd who there in life
Had been a fervent constant worshiper.
His arms and armor on his coffin lay,
And other swords than his lay crossing there,
His brother officers, who form'd with him
The noblest military staff our fair
Columbia has to boast, were seated by,
In shining armor clad."

	In the morning I remember that the sky had
looked somewhat thretening but it cleared away
until near the close of the service, dark clouds
began to gather over the city, and as the pro-
cession was again forming to follow his remains
to their last resting place, the rain fell in tor-
rents but this did not prevent us from standing
by his grave while his brethren, one by one
deposited therein a green bough, as a last tri-
bute of respect to one, whose life had been free
from blemish, and whom Zion deeply mourned.

To be continued.


