A GOOD MAN  GONE TO REST.

 Died at his residence in the 20th Ward, Salt
Lake City, Thursday morning, August 4th, 1881,
at six o'clock, Elder William C. Staines, who for
many years has held the important position of
emigration agent for the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.  Bro. Staines has been ill
for some months, but only recently confined to
his bed.  His sufferings were very great, seem-
ing to be a complication of diseases which baffled
the skill of the most eminent physicians.
	Deceased was born on the 26th day of Septem-
ber, 1818, at Higham Ferries, Northamptonshire,
England, and had nearly attained his 63d year.
 Bro. Staines has been a member of this
Church ever since the days of his youth.  He
first heard the gospel in his native land when
he was scarcely twenty-three years old and was
baptized a year afterwards.  He gathered with
the Saints at Nauvoo, in April, 1843.  He passed
through the trials of the eventful days which
subsequently took place, and left that beautiful
city with the first company of exiles in the dead
of winter, in 1846.
 While journeying westward with the Saints,
after the famous Mormon Battalion had started
for Mexico, a small company was fitted out to
make an effort to cross the Rocky Mountans be-
fore the winter should set in.  Bro. Staines was
one of that number.  President Young after-
wards deciding it would not be practicable for
them to proceed the entire distance, advised them
to winter on Grand Island, a few miles west of
the Platte River.  However the little company
were visited by some Ponca chiefs who invited
them to winter with their camp.  The Ponca
Indians were about to start for their winter
hunting-ground and some of the brethren were
invited to join them.  Bro. Staines was one of
that number; he accepted the mission, for such
it was, and during that, to him, memorable
time, he experienced not only hardship, fatigue,
sickness and privation, but most wonderful
manifestations of the power of God.  He arrived
in the valley in September, 1847, with the
pioneer companies of families who followed the
first pioneers.  He was sent on a mission to his
native land in 1859 and had charge of the Lon-
don Conference until the spring of 1863. In
that year he commenced his labors in New
York as agent for the emigration, which position
he left to return home on account of his failing
health this season.
 He was a man of sterling integrity, and un-
bounded faith in the principles of the gospel and
the work of the latter-day dispensation. His
eminent ability to transact business and his po-
liteness, courtesy and kindness to all classes of
people, his shrewdness, tact and excellent judg-
ment are all abundantly proven from the fact,
that for the eighteen years he managed the
emigration affairs, having immigrated 50,000
people, he has had no difficulty of any kind,
although he transacted business with railroad
men, steamship companies, and dealt with peo-
ple of all nations, yet he was held in the high-
est esteem and won the respect and friendship of
many thousands, by his affability of manner,
his amiability and uprightness of character and
his untiring patience for the good and well
being of others.  Too much cannot be sa-d in
his praise; he was a man of fine education and a
high order of intelligence which rendered him a
pleasant and entertaining companion to all
with whom he was associated.  There are thou-
sands to bless his honored name had reverently
cherish his memory for his many kindly deeds
of unostentatious charity.  He was fondly at-
tached to home and fireside companionship, and
his refined taste was apparent in the exquisite
though simple elegance of his houses and
grounds which he was every year improving.
He was a natural horti- and flori-culturist, and
his home surroundings were ever an attraction
to all, as well as an ornamentation to the city.
	Brother Staines had many warm friends who
sincerely mourn his absence, but he has passed
to endless life, and joined the hosts of those who
await the first resurrection, many of whom he
knew and loved upon the earth.
 We deeply sympathize with his bereaved
household, and pray that they may be com-
forted in their loneliness by the Holy Spirit and
the assurances which the gospel imparts to all
who obey its precepts and endure faithful unto
the end of the race.
	"Weep not for him that dieth,
	For he wath ceased from tears,
	And a voice to his replieth-
	Which he hath not heard for years."
 The funeral of Elder Staines was held in the
Salt Lake Assembly Hall on Friday, August
5th, at three o'clock p. m., when Pres. Joseph F.
Smith preached an eloquent and consoling fu-
neral discourse.  The magnificent walnut coffin
was delicately decorated with lovely flowers, of
which the deceased was such an appreciative ad-
mirer, and a star and crescent ingeniously woven
of the the choicest white flowers adorned the cen-
tre of the casket.  Hundreds of people in car-
riages followed the remains of Br. Staines to the
cemetry.
 Though absent he will not be forgotten, but
the rememberance of his generous deeds and no
ble life will live forever in the hearts of those
who knew and loved him.			E.B.W.


