BY JAMES G. CLARK

	Competent literary critics have pronounced the follow-
ing poem unsurpassed by any other production of its
class in our language. It is perfect in rhyme, beautiful
in figure and expression:

Leona, the hour draws nigh,
	The hour we've waited so long,
For the angel to open a door in the sky,
That my spirit may break from its prison and try
	lts voice in an infinite song.

Just now, as the slumbers of night
	Came o'er me in peace-giving breath,
The curtain, half lifted, revealed to my sight
Those windows which look on the kingdom of light
	That borders the river of death.

And a vision fell solemn and sweet,
	Bringing gleams of a morning-lit land;
I saw the white shore which the pale waters beat,
And I heard the low lull as they broke at their feet
	Who walked on the beautiful strand.

And I wondered why spirits could cling
	To their clay with a struggle and sigh
When life's purple autumn is better than spring,
And the soul flies away, like a sparrow to sing
	In a climate where leaves never die.

Leona, come close to my bed,
	And lay your dear hand on my brow,
The same touch that thrill'd me in days that are fled,
And raised the last roses of youth from the dead,
	Can brighten the brief moments now.

We have lived from the cold world apart,
	And your trust was too generous and true
For their hate to o'erthrow; when the slanderer's dart
Was rankling deep in my desolate heart,
	I was dearer than ever to you.

I thank the great Father for this,
	That our love is not lavished in vain;
Each germ in the future will blossom to bliss,
And the forms that we love, and the lips that we kiss
	Never shrink at the shadow of pain.

By the light of this faith am I taught
	That my labor is only begun;
In the strength of this hope I have struggled and fought
With the legions of wrong, till my armor has caught
	The gleam of Eternity's sun.

Leona, look forth and behold
	From headland, from hillside, and deep,
The day-king surrenders his banners of gold.
The twilight advances through woodland and wold,
	And the dews are begining to weep.

The moon's silver hair lies uncurled
	Down the broad-breasted mountains away;
The sunset's red glory again shall be furled
On the walls of the west, o'er the plains of the world,
	And shall rise in a limitless way.

O! come not in tears to my tomb,
	Nor plant with frail flowers the sod;
There is rest among roses too sweet for its gloom,
And life where the lilies eternally bloom,
	In the balm-breathing gardens of God.

Yet deeply those memories burn
	Which bind me to you and to earth,
And I sometimes have thought that my being would
		yearn
In the bowers of the beautiful home to return
	And visit the home of its birth,

'Twould even be pleasant to stay
	And walk by your side till the last:
But the land-breeze of heaven is beginning to play—
Life shadows are meeting Eternity's day,
	And its tumult is hushed in the past.

Leona, good-by; should the grief
	That is gathering now, ever be
Too dark for your faith, you will long for relief,
And remember the journey, though lonesome is brief,
	O'er lowland and river to me.


THE Spanish government has issued a decree
permitting the Jews to return to Spain. This
concession has been granted at the suggestion
of an influential Israelite to the Spanish minis-
ter at Constantinople.


[Column 1]
PEN SKETCH OF AN ILLUSTRIOUS
			WOMAN
	ELIZA R. SNOW SMITH
		CONTINUED
	Sister Eliza entered upon her duties as su-
perintendent of the Woman's Store immedi-
ately after the October Conference, 1876, and
by her careful and prudent management and
her practical executive ability, succeeded in
establishing without money, a home manufac-
ture mercantile department, which still exists
as proof positive of her eminent success in this
line of labor. President Young fully acknow-
ledged she had done what he had been trying
for years to get one or more of the brethren to
do, but could not persuade them to undertake
it without capital. Sister Eliza thus demon-
strated the fact that women have faith and
courage to undertake what men would consider
a hopeless enterprise. Goods were sold on
commission, lady clerks were employed, and a
lady sat at the desk and kept the books. Sis-
ter Eliza not only looked after the minutest
details of work, but actually performed some
of the real labor herself.
	During this year she had also much literary
labor to do. Her second volume of poems was
about to be published, and required some time
and attention, and in the autumn of the same
year arrangements were made to publish a
book containing sketches of Mormon women.
The money was to be furnished in shares by
Relief Societies or individuals as the case
might be. Sister Eliza set about the work in
good earnest. There were writings to be
gathered up, as well as money to be collected,
and manuscript to read and revise, requiring
not only considerable labor, but a great deal
of tact, discrimination and judgment. She
read and prepared many hundreds of pages of
all kinds of writing for Mr. E.W. Tullidge, to
cull and select from afterwards and work into
the book he was writing, to be called "The Wo-
men of Mormondom," and when the type set-
ting commenced she was expected to give all
the proof one reading at least. Let the reader
remember this work was done while Sister
Eliza was superintending the store, from eight
o'clock in the morning until six in the evening
daily. This constant employment hindered
her from traveling among the settlements as
much as formerly, but she still kept up her
regular work in the House of the Lord, weekly
or semi-weekly and also attended meetings in
the city and suburbs from time to time.
	Early in the year 1877 the two books upon
which the lady had been so arduously engag-
ed during the winter evenings, were sent to
press. Her second "Volume of Poems" here
in the Deseret News Office and the "Women
of Mormondom" in New York City. Both
works contain a steel engraving of the lady,
executed in New York, with her autograph,
Eliza R. Snow, beneath the picture.
	The book of Poems was very delicately dedi-
cated to Brigham Young, the dedication being
in verse; but two months after, and while the
manuscript of the poems was still in the hands
of the printers, Brigham Young passed behind
the veil, and the same volume finishes with a
poem entitled "Funeral of President Brigham
Young," which is touchingly sublime in its
description of that solemn and imposing occa-
sion. We give here a few extracts:
		*	*	*	*	*
"From morn till noon, the body lay in State
And thousands came, a tribute of respect
To pay, and take a last—a parting view
Of the illustrious dead.
				The funeral rites
Were on the Sabbath day. At service hour,
The spacious tabernacle densely filled
Was thronged by anxious multitudes without:

[Column 2]
Within one vacant chair remained
Enrobed in folds of solemn drapery
		*	*	*	*	*	*
"But men of God were there—men who had 'borne
With him, the heat and burden of the day.'
Apostles, Prophets, Revelators, Seers,
Brave, noble men, whose hearts had never quailed;
Who knew no fear when times were perilous,
But now, when speaking of their leader's worth—
Their love for him—their loss and Zion's loss;
The firm lip quiver'd and the dew of grief,
Beneath their eyelids gathered. Strong men wept."
	*		*		*		*
"All Israel were mourners; but the corse
Was followed by a num'rous weeping train
Of those, by dear and filial ties, his own."
	*		*		*		*
"Ne'er was a father more affectionate
Nor yet an earthly father more beloved."
	*		*		*		*
"He loved his people. Their high destiny.
Will be a monument to Brigham Young."

	A short time previous to the death of Pres.
Young, 'The Women of Mormondom," on
which Sister Eliza had spent much precious
time and to publish which she had used her
influence with the Relief Societies, was issued.
Pres. Young had the opportunity of examining
the book and expressing his opinion of the
value of the publication. He had an inter-
esting conversation with Sister Eliza upon the
matter the evening before he was seized with his
last sickness, and manifested a great in-
terest in the work which appeared to him to be
opening up for women in the world. He sug-
gested that a number of the sisters should go
but into the world and speak upon the plat-
form advocating the principles of our faith and
named one or two suitable persons for the lec-
ture field.
	Sister Eliza has always interceded for the
good of the women of Utah, whom she so ably
represents, and often when she might have
enjoyed pleasant associations on her own ac-
count, such as every woman naturally desires,
she sacrificed it for the sake of benefiting
others and promoting the advancement of the
work for woman's higher culture and progres-
sion, instead of her own personal interests.
Such has always been her life and character.
Sister Eliza, by her unbounded faith in the
capacity of women and by prompt and ener-
getic action at any and all times when possible,
has greatly influenced the destiny of "Mormon"
women; how much so, will probably never be
known.
			To be continued.


