WOMAN SUFFRAGE IN UTAH.

	THE August election is over. The votes have
been cast and counted. The members of the
Legislature and other officers nominated, have
been elected. Who did the voting? A few of
the registered voters of the People's party.
Who attended the Primary meetings in the
several precincts?  A very few men, scarcely
any women, barely enough to transact the ne-
cessary business, viz., to elect the given num-
ber of delegates to form a County Convention.
Is this right? Is it consistent with the princi-
ples of "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness"
about which we hear so much said? We think
not! Have women no interest at stake in these
matters. Have they no homes to guard, nor
families whose future well-being is dearer to
them than their own life? Here is an oppor-
tunity opened for woman to exercise a privilege
which gives her power in the government. Is
it possible that women of intelligence, women
who have had great experiences and great know-
ledge of right and wrong, of injustice and oppres-
sion, can hold such grand responsibilities light-
ly? It is a matter of wonder and astonishment.
Is it even good policy to be indifferent to one's
highest interests in times of peace and prosper-
ity? Assuredly not. "Eternal vigilance is the
price of liberty." Would that these grand words
were framed in large and glittering letters, and
hung upon the walls in the home of every
family, that they might be ever present in the
minds of the household. Are not those who
sit at their ease and do not attend to the duties
which devolve upon them in the common walks
of life culpable? Freedom is a precious boon;
it is worth making strenuous efforts to retain,
indeed it is worth almost any sacrifice. Then
why this lethargy in regard to voting? Is it for
want of thought? In this Territory, where the
privilege has been granted women of exercising
the right of franchise, and with all the teaching
and instruction that has been given from time
to time, verbal and written, it is remarkable
that women do not comprehend the power
which is in their hands for good, and come for-
ward in their united strength and help main-
tain the rights; which will secure to them and
those they love, and their children, the homes
and the liberty of which in times past they
have been so unjustly deprived; yes, when they
had not the opportunity of representation they
now enjoy. Women of Utah! do you reflect
upon these things? Do you appreciate the bless-
ing of the ballot? If you do, why do you not
manifest it by your works? Have you no rights
to maintain? Have you no apprehension of
danger from neglect of these duties?
	Then, again, how few comparatively of those
who are foreign-born become citizens. It
seems unaccountable, that knowing as they

[Column 2]

must know, how important a thing it is to be a
citizen of the United States, one could be con-
tent until he or she had taken the necessary
steps towards naturalization. Be advised and
step forward, that you may not be held respon-
sible for any neglect of duty in political matters;
for be sure they have a bearing upon your best
interests; your homes, your rights, your liberty
and all that makes life happy or desirable.
Arouse yourselves; read and reflect. Take pains
to become enlightened upon these subjects, and
see if they are not of more consequence to you
than many of the things about which you take
so much trouble, and upon which you spend so
much time. Some may ask do men need the
help of women in political affairs? Are they
not disgusted with women who push them-
selves forward in public meetings? This is not
a question of preference as we understand the
matter. It is an imperative duty. The women
of Utah understand how the the suffrage was
bestowed upon them—and knowing this, as they
do, can they for one moment think, they are
not called upon to exercise that right? We
have sufficient confidence in the character of
men to believe they respect women most, who
respect themselves; who regard their rights as
sacred, whether political or otherwise; who
would exert their utmost influence to protect
their homes, and maintain the institutions of
freedom, which every free-born man and woman
in possession of ordinary intelligence holds dear-
er than life itself.


