		BELLEVUE PRIMARY.

﻿	When Sisters E. R. Snow Smith and Zina
D. Young, passed through Bellevue on their
way north last March, they called the few
families who are here together ([-]ix in number)
and organized the Primary and Relief Societies.
Twenty children's names appeard on the roll,
but only about ten or twelve attend; s[-]me be-
ing mere babies. During the few months w[-]ich
have passed, much has been accomplished
comparatively speaking. Through donations
the sum of $3.40, has been put in the Treasury;
$3.10 having been spent for books and tracts
leaving 30 cts. in the Treasury. The tiny
library contains eighteen books and tracts; be-
sides which, each child has a Primary Hymn
Book. The meetings are held on Sunday
morning, presided over by Mrs. Mary W. Gates,
and although never having had any previous
experience in this line, Sister Gates has a nat-
ural aptitude and an attractive motherly way
with the children, which eminently fit her for
the place she occupies. I must say I admire
her practical way of giving the little ones ideas
that they can lay hold of, instead of boreing
them with abstruse subjects and preaching
that they cannot understand. The usual
programme is carried out and although not cul-
tivated in music herself her children are
natural muscians and singing is one of the prin-
cipal features. Minutes are strictly kept and

[Column 2]
the President tells me a good record-book is
an aim for the near future. The writings of
E. R. Snow Smith and the little pamphlet of
Hannah T. King's Women of the Scripture,
are read weekly to the little ones. Also "Gems"
"My First Mission" &c. &c. A little Jubilee
was planned and executed by the Pres., and
Association for the Faculty and Twenty-
Fourth, which was the first thing of the kind
ever attempted in this settlement. Programme
of the Twenty-Fourth: Song, Joseph Smith's
First Prayer, by the children, prayer by Elder
Jacob Gates, song "In our lovely Deseret," by
four little girls; all the children joining in the
chorus, dialogue by Luella Hanks and Claude
Gates, recitation by George Anderson; song
"Put me in my little bed" by three little ones—
Dancing—song. "Here we stand, hand in hand,"
by five little ones from two years old to five,
recitations, by four little girls, recitation by
Minnie Gates, recitation by Irona Hanks.
	The children having done their part most
prettily Elder Jocob Gates was invited to sing,
which he did rendering the song "The old oak"
with much spirit and vigor. Brother and
Sister Goold followed with "hard times" and
Bro. and Sister Sylvester with another
song, and Bro. McDougall with a recita-
tion.	The picnic supper followed and
full justice was done to the excellent viands,
after which Master Claude Gates sang "We
are the children of the Saints, the children
all singing the chorus, and Bro. Sylvester closed
with prayer. Thus ended a spirited, pleasant
entertainment, showing what energy and tact
can accomplish when guided by the Spirit of
God.
