[Vol8 | July 1921 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Our President Emeritus, Emmeline B. Wells]

THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS -. - = - President MRS. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - -: First Counselor MRS. LOUISA YATES ROBISON. - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Julia A. F. Lund Mrs. Susa Young Gates Mrs. Lalene H. Hart Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Jeanette A. Hyde Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter" Mrs. Ethel Reynolds Smith Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Cora Bennion Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor.. - - - - - - Susa Younc Gates Business Manager -: - - -: Jeanette A. Hype Assistant Manager - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah
EDITORIAL Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
EDITORIAL  Motto?Charity Never Fatleth  Vol. VIII. JULY, 1921 - No. 
 WELLS The last beautiful link between the pioneer past and the modern present snapped in twain when the fluttering hands of our late President were stilled in death and the imperiously tender voice was hushed over the trembling lips, as life and death grappled in the quiet struggle for final supremacy. Out over the Border our great leader went, gentle and unafraid. Bound up in wondrous involutions, she carried with her the detailed history of a sex and of a Church. It is not too much to believe that they will be glad to meet her Over There and listen in solemn conclave to her vivid and truthful report of things and people on this sad and spent old Earth. She bore in her memory-records the mixed triumphs and failures of human strivings and human lapses. Eager they will be, those heavenly ones, to hear her unvarnished story; for the play and interplay of the human will upon human wills is the score which turns fixed and immutable law into palpitating, divine values. And so they will gather about her for earth-news?and what wealth of items she took away! She is gone?our President Emeritus. She who heard the EDITORIAL 417 Prophet's voice, who knew the wives of old Nauvoo, whose memory played like lambent flames upon the scenes and figures of a past which now seems like a millennium ago. For when she spoke, Nauvoo was only around the corner, and the Mansion House was just across the way. You heard them singing English madrigals, and caught the girls down on the boat landing at the Mississippi river bend, to see the infrequent discharge of passengers for that frontier in the wilderness?Nauvoo. She made them live before you?Joseph the Prophet and his Brother Hyrum; now their figures fade into remories like Peter, Paul, and John the Beloved?dear, but very distant! Gone! We knew that we should greatly miss her counsel, her loyal devotion tto the Priesthood, and her wondrous memory? the color of William Law's hair, the uncertain polish of Major John C. Bennett, the beauty of young Emily Partridge, and the truculence of Emma Smith. But we have known her?you and I; what a heritage we have! There will come others out of the great present, and out of the majestic future?women all girt with wisdom and panoplied with talents; but she was the last pioneer, the very last of that great tribe of kingly souls and queenly spirits who waited beside the throne for nigh six thousand years to tabernacle in the flesh that they might be the pillared walls about the altar of the Master's Church, in this last dispensation. There will be others kind and noble?there are our dear successors to her authority, who are standing among us today?but she was the last of that distinguished saintly company about which the Prophet Moses must have dreamed when he described the chosen sons of God in antediluvian days as he did in Genesis: "And there were giants in those days." We shall love and reverence our new leaders the more, because she and they of old taught us how to love and how to reverence!