the General Board.
MRS. ANNIE WELLS CANNON
Wherever Mrs. Cannon is known she is loved and respected, and those who know her or know of her comprise a multitude. She was born in this city in 1859, and is the daughter of the late General Daniel H. Wells and Emmeline B. Wells. Her education was obtained at a private school, later University of Utah. In 1880 she was married to Colonel John Q. Cannon. Her home life has been as beautiful as it was busy, and she is the mother of twelve children. No one woman in the nation has a finer or fuller record for practical public service. She was one of the very first exponents and advocates of woman suffrage in the state. She is a charter member of the Utah Woman's Press Club, a member of the Daughters of the Pioneers and of the Daughters of the Revolution. For fifteen years she was associate editor of the Woman's Exponent, and for ten years was a member of the general board of the National Woman's Relief Society and traveled throughout the western states in that capacity. From 1915 to 1919 she was president of the Daughters of the Pioneers. In all these years she has never shirked a duty. A commentary of Mrs. Cannon's life of public service would not be complete without mentioning her splendid record in the 1913 session of the state legislature. She never missed a roll-call during the entire session and a large portion of the social legislation secured by the women of the state was directly due to her own personal efforts. When asked for a statement of her work in this session she modestly replied that she was pleased to have had a small part in the passage of the minimum wage law for women, the dependent mother's pension law, and the law creating the office of a woman deputy in the department which has the supervision of all forms of employments. But we know that Mrs. Cannon played no small part in the enactment of this legislation, and it goes without saying that she deserved re-election.
394 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
She is a cha