[WomansExponent | Vol6 | 1877 | January | Issue: 16 | Title: CLARKSTON, Nov. 3d, 1877. | Author: Unknown]

			CLARKSTON, Nov. 3d, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place were
blessed with the presence of some of the
good sisters from Salt Lake City, and re-
ceived from them some valuable instruc-
tion. Meeting opened with the usual ex-
ercises, after which Mrs. Zina D. Young ad-
dressed the assembly. Mrs. Young said
she felt very much gratified in meeting
with the sisters in their new Meeting
House. She felt to ask the Lord for a bless-
ing in our meeting together. She advised
the sisters to lay up wheat for a time of
need; supposed they had already com-
menced, and explained that what they did
store up no one had any right to use, until
those who had counseled us to store it up
should advise us to disburse it. She said
if there was nothing more in our religion
than "Baptism for the Dead" and "Celestial
Marriage," it was worth living for. The
Prophet Joseph Smith in his lifetime said
the Relief Society was not only to adminis-
ter to the needy, but to save souls. She
spoke very instructively in regard to dress,
said we should dress so that we can feel
comfortable, without regard to the fashions
of the world; she also made some good re-
marks in regard to our food; gave some
good counsel to young men on the subject
of using tobacco and stimulants, and to the
young sisters on various subjects pertain-
ing to their mission here on the earth. She
advised the sisters to take the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. She thought those sisters who
were willing to live in plural marriage had
made a step towards loving their neighbors
as themselves. She bore testimony that
the principle of Celestial Marriage was true,
and advised the sisters never to say a word
against it. She told us how to bring up
our children, and said never to correct them
in anger. She also said the sisters could
enjoy themselves without doing anything
to grieve the Holy Spirit; God did not
wish us to be sad, but to be cheerful. She
concluded by asking the blessing of God
upon us. She afterwards exhibited some
specimens of home-manufactured silk arti-
cles.
Mrs, E. Davis said she felt thankful for
the privilege of meeting with the sisters of
this place; she was sorry that Miss Snow
could not be with us, but she would read
one of Miss Snow's poems, which she com-
posed in Palestine, concerning the curse
which rested upon the Jews. She advised
the young to seek unto the Lord in their
youth; their parents would not always be
with them, and it was necessary for them
to have a knowledge for themselves of the
divinity of the work in which they are en-
gaged. She related some of her experiences
in the church, which were very interesting.
She gave some very good instruction in re-
lation to home industries, and mentioned
the articles made by the sisters for the
Centennial Exhibition in Salt Lake City.
She said strangers visiting the city said
the articles compared very favorably with
those they had seen elsewhere. She en-
couraged the sisters to go to work and
manufacture all the clothing they could for
their families, and solicited them to sub-
scribe for the EXPONENT and assist in sus-
taining that paper, and by so doing aid the
Elders in spreading truth to the world.
She closed by invoking the blessings of
God upon all, both old and young.
	Some other excellent things were said
for our comfort, and the meeting was ad-
journed. Prayer by Elder W. O. Carbine.
		MARY GRIFFIN, President,
			JANE GODFREY, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REST.

Too little rest, too little sleep,
Too many hours to sow and reap–
	At last disease and pain!
Weak grows the never-loosened hand;
The strongest ropes part, strand by strand,
	Beneath a ceaseless strain.

Let him who burns his midnight oil
In lonely and unwholesome toil
	Think, when he trims his lamp,
That thus he trims his life as well,
And hastens towards the last low cell–
	Its darkness and its damp.

He who would travel far and long,
And keep a stately stride and strong,
	Must rest beside the way.
A ceaseless pace at first may win,
But he who halts at wayside inn
	At last shall win the day.
	
To weary feet all streams are deep,
All roads are rough, all hills are steep,
	As wayworn travelers know.
One hour of rest is a precious boon
To him who toils through heats of noon,
	With painful steps and slow.
Then, ye who hope to make your mark
Ere your last night-fall, cold and dark!
	And stand above the throng
On some far, sun-kissed height of thought,
Or do some deed no hand hath wrought–
	Work, rest–and so be strong.


[Column 1]

