[Vol4 | August 1917 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]
Early  Amusements  in  Utah. 
By  Sarah  Jane  Rich  Miller. 
The  first  winter  in  the  Old  Fort  was  a  busy  time,  as  hauling 
woo  1  from  the  canyons,  feeding  and  taking  care  of  the  stock,  such 
as  horses,  sheep,  cows,  oxen  and  even  goats,  kept  the  men  at  work 
ail  day.  Amusements  were  not  much  indulged  in — sometimes  a 
r'anoe  would  be  given  in  some  home  that  had  a  "puncheon  floor," 
if  the  lady  of  the  house  would  consent  to  let  it  be  used  for  that 
purpose,  as  dirt  floors  were  the  fashion  in  those  days.  Visiting 
was  more  indulged  in,  as  the  lady  of  the  house  would  generally 
get  up  a  good  meal  and  the  men  would  come  to  supper,  and  the 
evening  would  be  spent  in  innocent  games. 
In  the  early  50's  President  Young,  as  Trustee-in-Trust.  had  a 
bath  house  built  for  the  Church,  and  in  the  front  of  this,  was  a 
dwelling  for  the  care-taker,  as  well  as  place  for  amusement.  There 
was  a  large  .dancing  hall,  also  a  long  dining  room.  This  was  fittei 
up  for  public  entertainments,  and  Brother  Hendricks  and  family, 
of  Haunts  Mill  fame,  were  placed  in  charge,  and  here  the  "swell" 
dances  of  that  time  were  given.  Tickets  were  sent  out,  and  rea- 
sonable prices  charged  the  invited  guests.  This  was  to  pay  the 
expenses  of  lights,  music  and  supper.  These  parties  generally 
commenced  in  the  afternoon  at  two  o'clock. 
At  these  parties,  a  program  would  sometimes  be  given  at  in- 
termission, usually  singing,  recitations  and  fancy  dancing. 
I  remember  going  to  a  wedding  party  when  William  Hen- 
dricks and  Jane  Andrews  were  married.  A  dance  was  given  and 
supper  was  served.  President  Young  was  in  a  happy  mood  and 
full  of  fun.  He  called  on  Thomas  Bullock  and  wife  to  sing  the 
comic  duet,  "I  Won't  be  Made.  I  Swear  I  Won't,  To  Keep  Time 
Like  a  Watch."  This  was  a  quarrel  between  man  and  wife,  be- 
muse the  man  had  staid  out  late,  but  did  not  want  to  tell  where. 
ft  was  a  great  hit  and  brought  down  the  house.  President 
Young  always  remembered  the  wives  of  those  on  missions  an  1 
sent  them  invitations  to  attend  these  entertainments.  I  sometimes 
went  with  my  mother. 
This  house  was  afterwards  used  as  a  hotel,  with  Jesse  C. 
Little  in  charge. 
The  first  house  built  in  Utah  wlrch  stood  at  the  corner  of 
First  North  and  West  Temple  streets,  was  used  for  dancing  and 
he-longed  to  Sister  Carrington.  She  would  move  her  furniture 
and  beds  out  into  the  garden  and  let  the  room  to  the  young  folks 
for  a  dance,  and  after  the  dance  was  over  the  young  men  would 
place  the  things  back  in  the  room,  and  thus  all  went  home  satis- 
fied.

432  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
Mrs.  Alfred  Lampson  also  allowed  her  house  to  be  used  for 
dances.  At  these  home  dances  only  one  cotillion  could  be  danced 
at  once,  but  they  kept  things  going  and  did  not  allow  the  floor  to 
get  cold  until  intermission. 
The  music  at  these  small  parties  was  usually  two  violins,  and 
sometimes  an  accordeon  would  accompany  them.  When  larger 
parties  were  wanted  the  schoolhouses  were  obtained,  and  later  the 
Social  Hall  was  built  for  both  dancing  and  theatricals. 
In  \h\<  hall  many  happy  hours  were  spent ;  here,  in  the  early 
30's,  the  Polysophical  Society  used  to  hold  its  meetings  and  also 
its  dances.  This  was  the  first  of  any  organized  social  work  in 
I'tah.  ainl  was  inaugurated  by  Lorenzo  Snow.  Claudius  V.  Spen- 
cer. Henry  W.  Xaisbitt.  William  Eddington,  and  others,  and  was 
for  instruction  as  well  as  our  amusements.  The  Polysophical 
was  patronized  by  the  best  society  in  Utah,  and  many  happy  hours 
were  spent  at  these  meetings  and  entertainments. 
Zi^n. 
Maud  Dobson. 
The  Wasatch  mountains  proudly  stand 
Enrobed  in  snow  and  pine. — 
Their  mighty  peaks  on  every  hand 
Crowned  with  a  light  divine. 
As  first  appeared  to  Moses'  band 
The  hills  of  Palestine. 
Safe  sheltered  at  the  mountain's  feet 
The  busy  city  lies, 
Nature  drowses  in  soft  heat. 
Nor  heeds  how  swift  time  flies  ; 
Man  fills  the  busy  marts  w'th  noise 
And  barters  merchandise. 
And  to  and  fro  with  mystic  ways 
Flit  guides  we  can  not  see, 
They  keep  a  vigil  on  our  days 
And  guard  us  silently, 
That  all  who  dwell  here  by  Mis  grace. 
May  nobler,  purer  be. 
(  '   ancient  hills !    O   inland  sea  ! 
O  town,  fair  as  a  bride ! 
'  »  temple,  where  shall  never  be 
Deceit  nor  hate  nor  pride. 
Dearer  to  me  one  stone  of  thee 
Than  all  the  world  beside.

August  Entertainment. 
By  Morag. 
"The  changes  for  autumn  already  appear, 
A  harvest  of  plenty  has  crowned  the  glad  year, 
While  soft  smiling  zephyrs  from  orchards  and  bowers 
Bring  odors  of  joy  from  the  fruit  and  the  flowers." 
The  long  days  of  August  are  usually  filled  with  work  for  our 
women,  with  bottling  fruit,  making  preserves,  canning  vegetables, 
drying  corn,  and  the  like,  and  there  is  very  little  time  for  social 
affairs  ;  still,  there  are  occas:ons  when  we  can  meet  together  and 
enjoy  each  other's  society  and  help.  How  about  an  early  morning 
fruit  picking  bee,  followed  by  a  dainty  breakfast  on  the  screened 
porch?     This  might  be  a  prelude  to  a 
CANNING  PARTY. 
Invitation 
Come  to  our  canning  party 
Come  when  you  can, 
Stay  as  long  as  you  can. 
Bring  a  can  of  something. 
•  The  fruit  or  vegetables  gathered  in  the  morning  may  now 
be  prepared  an.d  canned. 
Here  is  a  canning  game : 
A  can  that  gives  light,  a  can  that  is  sweet, 
A  can  that  is  truthful,  and  one  you  can  eat, 
A  can  that's  a  city,  a  can  to  erase. 
One  spanning  a  river,  and  one  that's  a  pace. 
A  can  that's  a  savage,  a  way  for  a  boat, 
A  can  that's  a  country,  and  one  that  will  float. 
One  useful  in  warfare,  a  dreadful  disease. 
And  one  that  can  warble  with  sweetness  and  ease. 
Answers:  Candle,  Candy,  Candid,  Cantaloupe,  Canton,  Can- 
cel, Cantilever,  Canter,  Canrrbal,  Canal.  Canada.  Canoe,  Cannon. 
Cancer,  Canary. 
Refreshments  may  be  served  from  canned  Utah  products. 
A   CORN   SOCIAL. 
Here  is  a  unique  church  entertainment  for  autumn: 
Decorate  with  corn  in  its  various  forms,  popcorn  in  strings, 
corn  stalks  and  ears,  etc.

434  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
A  program  of  harvest  time  music  may  be  given. 
Readings  suggested:    "The  Corn  Song,"  'The  Huskers,"  by 
Jehu  G.  Whittier,  "Blessing  the  Cornfields,'*  by  Longfellow. 
A  novel  Biblical  menu  is  given: 
Com  mush,  Joshua  5:2:  ci  rn  bread,  I  Kings  21  :7;  com  beef, 
Genesis  18:8;  com  rake.  Numbers  9:8;  com  starch  pudding, 
Deuterononry  18:4;  popcorn,  Ruth  2:14:  com  coffee.  Leviticus 
9:0. 
During  the  summer  months  don't  forget  the  old  folks  and 
thq  shut-ins!  Old  folks"  reunions  should  he  held  in  every  com 
munity.  The  younger  people  in  one  ward  have  set  aside  a  cer- 
tain time  in  each  week  to  entertain  the  old  people  and  wi  lows. 
and  during  this  time  they  gather  with  their  carriages  and  autos 
and  take  the  old  folks  for  a  rile.  Those  who  are  home-houn  1 
are  cheered  with  (lowers  and  a  song  or  two.  and  much  -odd 
results  to  all  concerned.  For  the  home  evening  take  an  imag:nary 
trip  over  some  of  the  seas  an  1  lakes  mentioned  in  Scripture. 
Follow  the  Jan*  itcs  across  the  sea  t<>  die  Promised  Land. 
I  ake  a  sail  in  the  ship  built  by  Xephi.  or  one  of  the  ships  of 
H.'igoth.  Go  with  Alma  to  the  waters  of  Mormon.  Join  w'th 
John  on  the  river  Jordan  and  the  Dead  Sea.  Spen  1  a  few  mo- 
ments by  Siloam's  shady  rill,  or  journey  with  Jesus  on  the  Sea 
of  Galilee.  Sing  "Galilee/'  "Peace  he  Still.'*  "Down  by  the 
River's  Verdant  Side." 
A  report  has  been  sent  in  of  a  very  successful  entertainment 
recently  held  in  Wilford,  Granite  stake.  The  pro-ram  was  given 
by  tlic  members  of  the  Relief  Society,  under  the  able  leadership 
ol  Mrs.  M.  Dott  White.  The  opening  numbers  were  by  the  ward 
bishopric  and  consisted  of  a  humorous  song,  Dutch  reading  in 
costume,  and  a  funny  dialogue.  This  was  followed  by  the  play. 
"The  Old  Peabody  Lew."  by  Kate  Douglass  Wiggin,  (found  in 
Fehruary  Ladies'  Home  Journal}. 
A  series  of  living  movies  with  song  accompaniment  followed. 
The  tableaux  were  enacted  in  a  large  picture  frame.  The  music 
was  sung  by  solo  voices,  male,  mixed,  and  ladies'  quartets.  The 
songs  illustrated  follow:  "When  the  L'ttle  (  >nes  Say  <  ioodnight," 
'  luanita."  "Annie  Laurie."  "Kentucky  Babe,"  "Sweet  and  Low," 
"Mother  Machree."  "Tit  for  Tat,"  ''Missionary's  Parting,"  "Star 
Spangled    Banner." 
(Ones  of  home  made  ice  cream  were  served  and  die  program 
was  given  two  evenings  to  capacity  houses  and  a  very  substantial 
sum  was  realized.  I  can  recommend  this  as  a  typical  program. 
es  sdv  arranged  1>\  Relief  Society  talent  and  one  which  will  be 
k'cj.lL   enjoyed,     Try  it.

AUGUST  AMUSEMENTS.  435 
LIGHT   REFRESHMENTS. 
Marguerites  made  of  long-  salted  wafer  crackers,  spread  with 
a  filling  made  of  white  of  egg,  walnut  meats  chopped  very  fine, 
and  enough  pulverized  sugar  to  spread  easily  and  put  together 
like  sandwiches.     Serve  with  chocolate  or  grape  juice. 
Dainty  brown  bread  sandwiches  are  made  with  a  filling  made 
of  one-third  raisin,  two-thirds  walnuts;  run  through  a  meat  chop- 
per and  moisten  with  enough  grape  juice  to  spread  easily. 
Whipped  cream  with  chopped  nuts  stirred  into  it,  and  chilled 
and  served  in  sherbet  glasses,  with  sandwiches  or  cake,  is  de- 
licious. 
Baked  or  steamed  apples  with  the  cores  filled  with  chopped 
nuts,  with  whipped  cream  poured  over,  and  a  bit  of  currant  jelly 
on  top,  and  served  with  angel  food. 
Junket  made  with  different  flavors  served  with  cream  and 
nut  cake. 
Fruit  salad  served  with  cheese  straws  or  cheese  wafers  are 
most  appetizing. 
Bouillon  and  cream  soups  are  often  served  in  cups  with  bread 
sticks  or  sandwiches. 
Almond  custard,  which  is  ordinary  custard  with  chopped 
almonds  in  it,  can  be  served  with  salted  wafers. 
For  an  orange  party :  Frozen  custard  in  orange  cups,  orange 
jelly  with  whipped  cream,  cake  with  orange  icing,  orangeade. 
A  good  menu  for  a  children's  party :  Cocoa  with  whipped 
cream,  minced  chicken  and  tongue  sandwiches,  rose  pudding,  pink 
and  white  popcorn. 
Rose  pudding  is  made  by  boiling  a  quart  of  milk,  a  bit  of 
lemon  rind,  and  sugar  enough  to  sweeten.  Color  a  pretty  rose 
pink,  thicken  with  cornstarch  and  flavor  with  vanilla.  Line  a 
glass  dish  with  lady  fingers  or  small  cakes  and  pour  in  the  cream 
when  cool.     Ornament  the  top  with  marshmallows. 
For  a  lemon  party :  Chicken  salad  served  in  lemon  baskets, 
corn  bread,  lemon  cream  tarts  and  lemon  sherbet. 
For  lemon  cream  take  six  eggs,  one-half  pound  butter,  one 
pound  sugar,  grated  rind  and  juice  of  three  large  lemons.  Put 
sugar,  butter  and  lemon  juice  and  rind  in  double  boiler.  Beat 
eggs  well,  and  add  when  sugar  is  thoroughly  dissolved.  Cook 
until  mixture  thickens.  This  makes  one  quart.  If  put  in  jelly 
glasses  with  wax  on  top  will  keep  for  a  long  time.  It  is  fine  for 
cake  filling,  for  tarts,  spread  on  crackers,  for  sandwiches,  etc. 
Trv  some.