[Vol4 | August 1917 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Home | Title: Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde]

Home Science Department. Janetie A. Hyde. SAVE EVERY OUNCE OF BREAD. Who has been guilty of wasting bread? Let him take heed, coming season find him wanting. It doesn't seem much of a the lest waste to feed to the chickens and house pets, a few ends or crusts of bread, yet those same crusts and bread ends could be browned and ground up for family use. In conversation with a very thorough business man, he related the following story: Living next door to him was a family of five, the bread winner, or father, getting $75 per month, and the mother working two days a week to help maintain the family; and yet, said he, they send to us at the week end, a large pan of left-over crusts and bread to be fed to our chickens. Then he remarked, "No wonder people are sometimes in want when they throw into the garbage can food made from the most expensive farm products, and especially in such serious times as these." He also told of a lady whom he knows very well who gives away a fifty-pound flour sack of stale bread every week to her laundress. And think of it, these people are paying from $5 to $6 per hundred for the flour, besides the other ingredients contained in the composition of the bread, to say nothing of the energy required in its preparation, and the expense of the heat required to bake it. Raw material would answer the purpose of food for the chickens better than the stale bread. Another well known gentleman told of a family renting from him, who was found entirely without floor. He gave them a fifty-pound sack of flour; the mother accepted it very graciously, and seemed wonderfully pleased, but to his surprise he later found a pan of doughy biscuits placed in the chicken pen. make from the flour he had given her. We give these positive instances, that they may cause our women to think of the waste indulged in by some who need to be helped by way of a few lessons in home economy and cookery, and by timely suggestions in our Home Economic meetings. Let vi suggest that the subject of bread and bread-making be given special attention, calling upon those for help who have had success as bread-makers and bread-bakers. For. let it be remembered that the baking is as essential to the value of good bread as the making. Let the women exchange recipes for yeast-making, for flour used, for the way bread should be handled, etc. This will stimulate an interest in the class, and many points will be brought out for the benefit of all present. Let a lesson be given on stale bread and its uses, also on recipes for puddings, cakes, croquets. 
 Headed meats, oysters, egg-plants and dressing for meat and fish, etc. The utmost waste of bread is in the failure to make and to bake it properly. wheat, To beside answer the amount call of necessary the  for feed 600,000,000 bushels will our own nation, of require the utmost care and conservation of wheat and its byproducts. The nation's food situation may become very serious before the war ends. Let each housewife consider it her special duty to be a party to saving, that the nation may not be handicapped for food with which to maintain the strength of its people. RECIPES FOR THE USE OF STALE BREAD. All left-over slices of bread, crusts, etc.. should be browned and dried in the oven, and put into fruit jars for future use. Bread Crisps.  Cut stale slices of buttered bread into cubes or stripes, and place in the oven to brown. Use with soup instead of crackers. Broztm Betty Pudding.  Place alternate layers of bread crumbs and apple sauce in baking dish, using crumbs for the last covering. Place in oven to brown for 30 minutes. Serve with the following sauce: One tablespoon of butter melted in saucepan; one scant tablespoon of flour added to butter; stir in pan until lightly browned; add sufficient water to make a thin sauce. favor with juice of one-half lemon, one-eighth teaspoon nutmeg, and one-half cup sugar. Serve on pudding while hot. If you have a few spoonful of jelly, you may add this to the sauce. which makes it very delicious. Stale Bread as Dressing for Meat, Fish, or Fowl.  Moisten stale bread with hot milk, add a lump of butter, two well beaten eggs, season with salt, pepper, sage, and a little grated onion, also one tablespoonful lemon juice. This is an excellent dressing, and suits most any taste. The onions and sage may be omitted. Cakes from Stale Bread.  Almost any cake batter for fruit or nut cakes, would be much improved by using stale bread crumbs in proportion of about one-half bread crumbs to one-half flour. Mrs. Gates makes her delicious fruit and wedding cakes entirely with bread crumbs. Chicken or Meat Croquettes.  Mix chopped meat or chicken with moistened bread crumbs, instead of using all white sauce for chicken or meat croquettes  both saving and delicious. Salmon Loaf, Beef and Veal Loaf.  One cup shredded meat, one cup stale bread crumbs moistened with milk, season with salt.^ pepper, and grated onion. Mix all together with one beaten egg. Place in oven from 20 to 30 minutes. Serve with white parsley sauce. This sauce is made the same as Betty Pudding sauce, leaving out all flavoring, using the chopped parsley instead.