[Vol4 | August 1917 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Industrial Education in the Brigham Young University]

Industrial Education in the Brigham Young University. While all the world is at war and while every statesman, teacher and philosopher is crying out from the housetops the necessity for economy and conservation of resources, the authorities of that greatest and noblest of educational institutions, the Brigham Young University, go right on holding to the sane theory that ignorance is waste and that trained intelligence is certain economy. In the field of woman's activities as in man's business affairs is the matter of extravagance and waste both a needless crime and a preventable mistake. The girl who knows nothing of food values or clothing possibilities is the most dangerous economic element in society. When the Brigham Young University, or Academy as it was called then, was organized by President Brigham Young, in 1874. the deed of trust with which lie endowed the institution stated that every pupil was to be taught some branch of mechanism. The first principal of the Academy, that master-builder of schools. Karl G. Maeser, early put forth his endeavor to carry out the spirit and meaning of that behest. The first step in that direction made by Brother Maeser was the opening of what would be called today a "domestic art department," in 1879. It was known then as the Ladies' Work Department. The famous and gifted daughter of Brigham Young, Sister Zina Williams-Card was engaged as teacher for this department. So far as is known this was the first attempt at introducing industrial education into any school in the United States. Sister Williams-Card organized classes in darning, stitching, in embroidery and in fancy work which at first recited after the regular school hours, for in that day school opened at a certain hour and was dismissed at a certain hour. Classes did not go on all day as they do now. So successful was the work done by that teacher that pupils flocked in from every county in the territory and from the adjoining states and availed themselves of the helpful if somewhat primitive teaching thus given. Sister Card gave lectures on moral or hygienic subjects to the girls while they worked; and she acted as the first matron of the institution. From that day to this the practical teaching of domestic art has been a continuous feature of the Brigham Young University. Perhaps the most artistic and original teacher in this depart- 
 meant was Mrs. Christine Young, who began her work in 1892 and for many years thereafter; she evolved and developed a practical course which combined useful training with the love of the beautiful in form, design and colors, the results of which stamped her as an artist of high degree. After her came a graduate of the Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, New York, Miss Vilate Elliott. Miss Elliott is thoroughly competent in the latest and best methods and standards of teaching the subject, while she is also full of the same unselfish ideals and devotion to the gospel truths which has marked all her predecessors in this position. This spring the exhibit of this department was remarkable for originality of conception, for finish in detail, for elaborate beauty of development and for the unity of its purposes and conception. Those who have attended such exhibitions in the Columbia University, in the Boston High Schools, in the Chicago University, in the Pratt Institute of Brooklyn, in the Drexel Institute of Philadelphia, etc., unite in declaring that this Utah exhibition was equal in essential quality and finish to anything shown in the larger institutions of the world. . art exhibit, b. y. u. today's domestic art department. Miss Vilate Elliott says: "The following is an outline of what we teach in the domestic art department today. Many of our girls come to us without knowing how to use a thimble or hardly a needle and are very ignorant of a sewing machine. "Our first course, domestic art A takes up the darning and mending and plain stitches in hand sewing after which the girls 
 make one or two articles applying these stitches. Then comes the study and care of the sewing machine, study of cotton materials, making of underwear and middies. One-half unit credit is given for the year. FINE NEEDLEWORK, B. Y. U. "After the above course which is the foundation work for all courses in the department, the girl is ready for dressmaking and art-needle work; she may take one or both the second year. Dressmaking A or No. I includes the making of shirt-waists, middies, house dresses, cotton and silk underskirts, tailor-made wool and silk skirts and simple afternoon dresses. Three fourths unit credit for the year. "Dressmaking B or No. II takes up the fine handwork, models in faggoting stitches, lace trimming, shaping lace yokes. These lessons are applied in making fine white waists, infants ' lace hoods, baby dresses, etc. The latter part of the year is spent in making afternoon and street dresses. Three-fourths unit credit is given for the year. "In addition to this we have two years' college work where our students make very fine coats, tailor-made dresses, also very tine afternoon and party dresses. This work fits our girls for trade work if they so desire it, or if a girl is adapted especially to this line of work and desires to teach, we give her educational courses and normal training. But primarily the domestic art division of the home economics course is to make our girls more capable in the home, to develop proper ideals in dress, to create daintiness and a keen sense for choosing the thing best adapted to her natural figure, her complexion and her purse. "The courses in art needlework take up almost every line of INDUSTRIAL EDUCATION. 439 fancy work. Along with most of these courses original design is emphasized. Indeed some of the courses cannot be taken and credit given without the design is original. In this way the girl develops the power to put into each article her individuality that il would otherwise lack. LADIES GOWNS EXHIBIT, B. Y. U. "For the first time a course in Textiles' was given this year. We have taken up the study of the animal and vegetable fibers both in the raw state and in the manufactured article. We have procured samples of different materials, have studied the many kinds of weaves, the difference between a woolen and a worsted, the dyes and the finishing. Have gone over cotton, linen and laces.' The proper care of clothing, cleaning and pressing, cleansing from grease spots and stains. We have spent some time in discussing the best kinds of materials for each part of our clothing; in short we have made the course very practical, the girls have enjoyed it and have asked that the course might be enlarged. "We have also a course in 'Shop Work' where our girls may work and bring it in for inspection, receiving credit for the same. "The exhibit we had this spring represented about three fourths of one semester's work. "We have had about two hundred and twenty-five students 
 enrolled this year in the department. The work is all elective. If the girl is majoring in domestic art she has to have about one fourth of her credits in our department." DOMESTIC SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. By Miss Lottie Harris, Head of Department. The work in the domestic science department was instituted some years after the domestic art department was started but it was even then one of the pioneer institutions in the West. The Vg ricultural College of Logan had organized its cooking school in 1804, but no other school in the West had this innovation at that time. In September, 1896, the domestic science or cooking school department was started by a daughter of President Brigham Young, Mrs. Susa Young Gates. A basement room was all that could be spared by the crowded school forces at that time, but those interested were not daunted. The teacher secured the interest of a couple of dozen prospective pupils, gave a party, with the proceeds of which the room was plastered and whitewashed. The girls themselves painted the floor and woodwork. Here was installed a stove, donated by one Provo merchant, and some simple utensils and furniture donated by other merchants. The teacher of Chemistry, Professor Stanley, was persuaded to give lectures twice a week and the teacher in physics likewise. The girls were given regular hours and the course that year was eclectic and utilitarian to a degree. No credits were given for this course and it was necessarily crude in its simple beginnings, but lectures and incidental talks gave to it life, and inspired in the pupils an ardent desire to get more and better training. Perhaps the table of studies given will prove the practical help given. DEMONSTRATIONS IN DOMESTIC ECONOMY AND COOKERY. FIRST SEMESTER. Bread. Mrs. Gates.  Wednesday, Sept. 2, 1896, Introduction. Friday, Sept. 11, 1896, Brown bread, unleavened bread. Wednesday, Sept. 9, White bread, soda biscuit. Monday, Sept. 14. Gems, pancakes and buns. Wednesday, Sept. 16, Salt rising bread, toast. Monday, Sept. 21, Cornmeal bread, and mushes. Wednesday, Sept. 23. The management of a fire. Vegetables: Monday, Sept. 28, Potatoes, boiled, baked and fried. Wednesday, Sept. 30, Cabbages, cauliflowers, turnips. Wednesday, Oct. 7, Summer vegetables. Monday, Oct. 12, Onions and tomatoes. Wednesday, Oct. 14, Beans and squash. Monday, Oct. 16. Horn- 00 ON 
 inv. and macaroni. Milk: Wednesday, Oct. 21, Milk, butter, and homemade cheese. Monday, Oct. 26, Sterilized milk, porridge, etc. Fruits: Wednesday, Oct. 28, Raw, stewed and baked f-ir'ts. Friday, Oct. 30, Dried fruits. Monday, Nov. 2, Canned fruits. Wednesday. Nov. 4, Preserves and jellies. Monday, Nov. 9, Pickles. Wednesday. Nov. 11, Catsups and relishes. Eggs: Monday, Nov. 16, Raw. boiled, and poached eggs. Wednesday, Nov. 18, Fried, baked and scrambled eggs. Soups: Monday, Nov. 23, Soup stock and broths. Wednesday, Nov. 25, Vegetables and tomato soups. Monday, Nov. 30. Noodles, vermicelli, macaroni soups. Wednesday. Dec. 2, Dried peas and bean soups, Fish soups. Fish: Monday. Dec. 14. Fried, boiled and steamed fish. Wednesday, Dec. 16. Baked fresh fish and salted fish. Friday, Dec. 18. Oysters. Salads: Monday. Dec. 21, Salad dressings. Wednesday. Dec. 23. Vegetable and meat salads. The next year Mrs. Leah D. Widtsoe, daughter of Mrs. (lates who was Utah's first student in domestic science and who had taken honors at Pratt Institute, assumed charge of the department. With her trained powers, her charming personality and her youthful enthusiasm she laid a deep and sure foundation for future growth and development in this essential study. When Mrs. Widtsoe married, the next spring, her class prepared and served her wedding supper. Several teachers followed her, as she removed to Logan where her husband was head of the extension department in the Agricultural College. "Louise Whittaker had charge of the Domestic Science department from 1899 to 1901. offering a two year course. "The department was closed during 1902 as Miss Whittaker had married and Miss May Ward was East preparing to teach. Miss Ward reopened the department in 1903, giving first year cooking. The next year she gave in addition, a course in invalid cookery; she brought to it all the resources of a keen mind and well trained faculties. "About this time Emma Lucy Gates returned from Europe and was delighting thousands of people with her beautiful voice. She offered to give the proceeds of a concert to the school to add another story to a proposed building. This floor was to be devoted to woman's work. The students under the leadership of Prof. N. L. Nelson got vigorously behind the movement and sold hundreds of tickets. Miss Gates handed to Pres. Brimhall a check for $1,000 amid deafening applause. "This made it possible for the Domestic Science department to have a large laboratory which contained individual desks, two donated coal ranges and 20 double disced gas stoves  these gas stoves were the result of the efforts of Sister Alice Reynolds with 
 CLASS IN COOKERY, B. Y. U. the women of the city. The department also consisted of two pantries, a class room and a small dining room. 'The Domestic Arts department consideration of the health of the girls had it was 3 sewing rooms. In deemed advisable in 1914 to connect the 3rd floor of the Arts Building with the Library floor. It was necessary to sacrifice one of the Domestic Art rooms. Since then they have had a room on the 2nd floor. "College courses were first given in 1910, with Miss Lottie Harris as head of the department. Special training was introduced. A course of Domestic Science was given to the 7th and 8th grades of the Training school. Juanita Johnson, Zina Taylor, Mrs. Emily Woodward and Susie Johnson were assistants in the course. "Miss Ward was head of the Domestic Science department from 1903-1913 inclusive and it grew from one year High School course to a three year High School and a 2 year college course. "Now three years are offered in the High School and eight courses in the college, two of which are for girls who have not had the opportunity of studying this subject in the High School. "This year it was made possible to fit up the class room as an electrical laboratory with 12 double disced stoves, one range, and a separate oven. Money for this, painting walls of the enlarged dining room and covering the dining room floor with in- 
 NEW ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT, B. Y. U. laid linoleum, has been raised in small amounts by the girls giving club luncheons, small banquets and a gift of $75 from Emma Lucy Gates, the receipts of a concert given in College Halls under the auspices of the women of the school. "The department has grown from an unplastered basement room to one of the finest in the country. "So while war alarms continue to sound, the wise daughters of Zion gather in these hallowed educational hall 3 and prepare themselves for higher domestic service, better home ideals and more complete fulfilment of womanly hopes and ambitions." NOTICE. All communications for the editor should be addressed to Mrs. Susa Young Gates, 29 Bishop's Building; Magazine business letters should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine matters pertaining to general Relief Society affairs should be addressed to the General Secretary, Mrs. Amv B. Lvman, 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.