[Vol4 | August 1917 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: in Israel Mothers in Israel Mary A. S. Winters]

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Vol. IV. AUGUST, 1917. No. 8 
Mothers in Israel. MARY A. STE\RNS WINTERS' NARRATIVE. (Concluded) At Deer Creek there occurred the always interesting event of marriage for Mary Ann Stearns Winters. Her daughter, Mrs. Augusta W. Grant recently found, in searching among her mother's papers, a few fragments full of the same charming touches which characterized the previous chapters, and, lest our words might mar the impressions made, we record them here in her own words: "It was early in the afternoon of a sultry day in August that we made our camp at Deer Creek, in the state of Wyoming, county of Converse. There were repairs to be made on the broken wagons, washing and cobbling to be done and all were glad of this opportunity to stop and prepare for the Sabbath. It was an ideal camping place, plenty of green grass, pure water and shady trees  a delight to the sun-scorched travelers. Some who had preceded us had cut down some of the tall trees, trimmed them and laid them in place for seats  and had erected a rude stand by placing two or three logs together for a platform and raising one still higher for a seat with a pole tied across to a tree at each end for a back and a split pole nailed on two posts in the front completed the rude temple in the wilderness  but the side of it was inspiring to the emigrants for it did really look like going to meeting again as they were used to doing in groves and boweries before they had started on their journey  and all moved around with cheerful quietness and reverence for it seemed a visible testimony that God was with us and leading us on to salvation. There was a sacredness about it that subdued all sounds and strengthened and encouraged to renewed diligence. All labors were hastened to prepare for the Sabbath; the tires were wedged and tightened, the repairs completed, washing and cooking done and all retired to rest, but with the early dawn all were stirring again for the birds were singing a Sabbath chorus of praise. "In the groves every heart was light and joyous for we had now passed the sickly portion of the journey and were nearing the goal of our hopes and desires. The sun arose on a scene of calmness and beauty. After a quiet breakfast and at a given signal all repaired to the grove with happy hearts to listen to the word of inspiration that might be given there. The men in their clean hickory shirts and the women and children in their clean 4.''. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. starched sunbonnets and dresses looked pure and neat though humble and primitive. "That familiar hymn. 'I low Firm a Foundation' was sung and after prayer by one of the aged brethren and another hymn, testimonies were borne and counsel and instructions were given by the Captain and all felt to renew their diligence in serving the Lord, and with fresh hope in their hearts to soon meet with the faithful in the Valley. After the close of meeting and the noon luncheon had been partaken of they enjoyed a season of quiet rest till the lowering sun admonished them to prepare for the night. And just as the evening meal was about ready a carriage was espied coming from the East. Some going out to meet them, word was soon sent back that it was Apostle Lorenzo Snow just returning from his mission to Italy. Tie was making a rapid journey across the plains with a carriage and horses, stopping with the camps over night and traveling on to the next in the day time. The camped with us that night. The people met and received instruction and counsel from him for their future guidance and encouragement and he told them some of his experiences of his mission." * * * * Mrs. Winters tells us that she wore a green gingham dress to be married in and she refers quaintly to the important bridal fact that her own husband gave her some money with which to buy a few necessities when they reached Salt Lake City. President Lorenzo Snow was returning from his mission to Italy and he was, no doubt, pleased to unite in matrimony the stalwart young plainsman and pioneer with the gentle little maiden who added so much to the peace and comfort of the whole camp. They were marred that evening, 16 August. 1852. From another fragment we learn that their wedding meal was bread baked on a bake skillet, a piece of meat, a little lump of fresh butter with a cup of cold water. She laments even in the long years after the marriage elate that she had no looking glass and this was a trial as the hair must be arranged smoothly. every hair exactly in place, and she was anxious to please her young husband; but it was great fun, she says, using Oscar's money after reaching the Valley, to buy things at Kinkaid's store, trembling a little inwardly lest the clerk should discover what a very new housekeeper she was. The marriage occurred on August 16, 1862, at Deer Creek. On reaching Salt Lake City the young couple determined to Fettle quietly down to pioneer life and conditions. Almost immediately, however, they removed to Pleasant Grove and were pioneers in that village. The young wife suffered terribly from fear of Indian depredations. The men of the village built a stone fort wall and stood guard at night, so treat was the danger of occasional attack. MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 427 Two children, Delia T, and Augusta, were born in Pleasant Grove to the young couple. Tn 1859, they moved to Mt. Pleasant, stopping at Pay son for a few months where the third (laughter Susan Marion was born. Located temporarily in Mt. Pleasant, a fourth daughter Mary Ann was born. They returned to Pleasant Grove in 1864 where the rest of their lives was spent and where three sons and one daughter were born. Gifted with keen mental and spiritual apperceptions, Mrs. Winters loved knowledge and spent every spare moment in criticism mental and spiritual gifts. She taught school many years. Especially was she successful in gaining the confidence and love of her pupils. Big, unruly boys who usually bade defiance to most forms of authority, paid the tribute of willing obedience to the little, fragile, refined school teacher. In after years bearded men would often approach her with happy remembrances and gratitude for their pioneer schooling under her tactful management. The following is an extract of a letter from one of her pupils: "Ogden, January 26, 1917. "Dear Friends Delia, Augusta and Susie: I just want to tell you how much I have enjoyed those autobiographical articles of your dear mother's in the Relief Society Magazine. They are just like her, simple, quiet, forceful and beautiful. And the pictures of her and your grandmother, what old-time treasures they are. I've turned to them a dozen times to study them again! She was my first school teacher, you know, a bond of memory and interest time will never weaken. Among my earliest recollections is a remark of Grandma Hawley's as I was starting off for one of mv first school days, she sard: 'T like to have you go lo school to Mary Ann Winters; shes such a little lady you can copy after her in everything.' "I had not seen her for many, many years until I met her one day in the Temple not very long before her passing away. She knew me at once which rather surprised me as sickness and trouble had changed me so much I hardly knew myself. I did rot see her again that day nor at all, but I would have liked to have seen her later and told her of my testimony, she was so full of quiet zeal and faith and would so readily have sympathized and understood Her passing occurs somewhere near Decoration Dav, did it not? I remember when Decoration Day came that year. I wanted so much to write and tell you of her coming to our house one morning in early spring long before Decoration Dav was inaugurated, when I was about 14 years old. for Eva and me to go with her and gather  flowers for our graves. 
 saying she thought it a shame the graves of all our dead were so neglected and that it would be a fine thing if there were a special ('ay set apart for everybody to go and fix up the graves and plant them with flowers. This was some time before Decoration Day was adopted as a holiday here, so you see her's was the pioneer idea in this as in many other advanced things. But I couldn't write you then when your loss was new and your hearts sore even though I knew how much you would appreciate the estimate of her value from the pen of a friend. "Yours with interest and affection, "Sarah E. Hawi.f.y Pearson." "P. S.  One thing surprised me, I was so sure her birthplace was Bangor, Maine, instead of Bethel. In one of my first geography lessons she pointed Bangor out, hut she must have said she was horn near there. I've never seen Bangor on the map since, that it hasn't recalled that circumstance, our early memories are so keen. S. E. H. P." Mrs. Winters was interested in the silk industry. She spent some months on the Forest farm with Mrs. Zina D. II. Young. working assiduously in the care of the silk worms and so relentless were her activities that she had a nervous breakdown and was obliged to leave it all. After the death of her husband in 1903 she spent almost her whole time in temple work. She had a very wonderful manifestation regarding the importance of each person having his and her own temple robes  the wedding garment  always in readiness to pick up on a moment's notice when the "call" went forth. Her life's mission, she felt during later years, was to urge upon all the sisters to purchase material and make these sacred robes. She bought goods by the holt and made by hand with the most delicate of stitches, a robe for each of her daughters. She loathed ostentatious and gaudy show, nor would she permit herself or her loved ones, where she had the power, to waste one cent in useless finery or extravagant clothing. Materials might he of the finest, but so simply were they made that truly the beauty thereof was the beauty only of the dainty workmanship which went into their construction. During her later years she spent practically all of her pin money for postage and sent out missionary literature to relatives, friends and to people whose addresses she obtained from various sources. One cousin wrote recently "that she thought so much of cousin Mary Ann Stearns Winters' letters that she kept them in her Testament and read them often." On the 4th of April. 1912, the spirit of Mary Ann Steams Winters took its quiet, peaceful flight to another sphere of active MOTHERS IN ISRAEL. 429 and gentle usefulness, and she was buried in Pleasant Grove on April 6, her 89th birthday. Mrs. Winters has had a large family of modest, refined and intelligent children. Inheriting the quiet reserve and delicate shrinking from public notice which was so pronounced a feature of their mother's life, they are also like her, industrious, intelligent, noble and high-minded. Two of the daughters, beautiful and highly educated girls married apostles, Augusta, wife of President Heber J. Grant, and Helen the wife of the late lamented Apostle Owen Woodruff, both of whom laid down their lives in Mexico. Delia, who married Judge J. E. Booth is a prominent and popular Relief Society worker in Provo, herself instrumental in communistic plans and ideals. Susie who married Heber Rennion, Sr., possesses the same lovely and conscientious spirit which marks her gracious sisters. She is fragile in body, but strong in her constant devotion to duty and righteousness. She is now a member of the stake board of the Cottonwood Relief Society and has worked on the stake Primary board. The genealogy of the family is as follows: Oscar Winters, b. 7 Feb., 1825, Alexandria, Ohio. Mary Ann Stearns Winters, b. 6 April, 1833, Bethel. Me. Children: Delia I., md. John E. Booth of Provo. Huldah Augusta, md. Heber J. Grant, Salt Lake City. Susan Marion, md. Heber Bennion. Taylorsville. , Mary Ann, md. Wm. H. Freeman, of Riverton; she died in 1900. leaving eight children. Oscar L. md. Ella Smith, Pleasant Grove. Nathan S, died young. Arthur Ray, md. Elizabeth Wadleigh. Helen M. and Owen Woodruff. Mrs. Winters' grandmother. Susan Gray, married Aaron Frost, who comes of an old distinguished New England family. the emigrant Nicholas Frost settling in York county. Maine, as early as 1636. His eldest son, Charles (Major), born in Tiverton, England, 30 July, 1631, married Mary Bowles. He rose to great military rank, and was slain by the Indians in the most tragic manner, 4 July. 1697. The family are now scattered, but Kittery. Maine, is still the home place. Aaron Frost, one of the descendants, b. 14 July, 1799, d. 19 Oct., 1860, married Susan Gray, b. 13 January, 1780, d. 13 March, 1861. Their daughter Mary Ann married (1) Nathan Stearns; (2) Parley P. Pratt. Mary Ann Stearns' daughter, Mary Ann, is the subject of this sketch. Her father, Nathan Stearns, was the son of Jonathan Stearns and Thankful Bartlett Stearns. Few there are in this life of modern self-assertiveness and 
 personal dominance who retain in any degree the exquisite simplicity and selfless devotion to righteousness which marked the life and character of this godly woman. She was very truthful; so exact were her statements that it caused her positive pain to hear others misquote or misstate anything however small concerning herself or facts with which she was familiar. She could not look upon sin with the least degree of allowance in herself nor in others. And yet so tender were her sympathies, so quick was her appreciation of human frailties that she could hear lovingly and patiently with the sinner to the hitter end of life, leaving the great eternity to complete the problem of human redemption while she waited hopefully for the future. She loved everything beautiful, modest and refined. Her spirit was a pure, white flame, never stained by insincere lip-service nor unclean thoughts or aspirations. Her association was a benediction to those who knew her, leaving always the faint fragrance of quiet peace to linger after her departure as the scent of the vase which is broken hut clings to it still. Oh, that there were many like her! perhaps that would he too much like heaven, too little like this sad and faulty world. Her children truly exemplify the rigid honesty of the father and the delicate sincerity and purity of the mother. Mary Ann Strains Winters. May her life prove a blessing to those who read as it was in living it before her associates.