[Vol4 | August 1917 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons - Lesson I Theology and Testimony]

Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week In September. ISRAEL IN EXILE ESTHER. (Reading: The Story of Esther, in the Old Testament.) In the story of Esther, that masterpiece of court intrigue, we are given a glimpse of the life not only of an ancient Persian monarch and of his people but also of what is commonly known in biblical literature as the Dispersion and the loyalty of the Jewish people to their race and faith, no matter where they were or under what conditions they might be found. About six hundred years before Christ the tribe of Judah was carried away from Jerusalem and Palestine by Neustadter tribes Nazar, "the of greatest Israel of had the been Babylonian kings." taken captive Already the by Shalmaneser, king of Assyria. Thus the land of the Jews became emptied of the Children of Promise, with the exception of a few vinedressers. The reason for this scattering of the Chosen People was that they had transgressed the laws of Jehovah, obedience to which was a condition of their residence in the land to which God had led them under Joshua. This is how it came about that at the time we are now considering there was scarcely any part of the vast Assyrian Empire, and after that the Empire of Persia, where there were not to be found Israelites who had been taken captive thither from their home land. In the year 536 B. C, Cyrus the Great issued a decree permitting the Jews to return to their native land to rebuild Jerusalem and the temple. Thousands of them availed themselves of the privilege and opportunity, but other thousands of them remained in their scattered condition. Among those who remained in the Dispersion was Esther, with her uncle Mordecai. This, however, was some fifty years after Cyrus had issued his decree concerning the Jews. Such were the general conditions in which the people of God found themselves at the time of Esther. Susa (the biblical Shushan), the scene of the story of Esther, was one of the two residences of the Persian kings. Its name signifies "City of Lilies." The capital was famous for its palace fortress, in the fast- 
 ness among the uplands of Susiana, a mountainous region east of the Tigris at the head of the Persian Gulf. The main building stood on a great platform measuring a thousand feet square. The pillars on which rested the porticoes, thirty-six in number, varied in height from sixty to seventy-five feet. "Spreading far on every side from this amazing structure were gardens, well called a 'paradise.' Huge four-footed colossal, with wings and human heads, flanked all the gates and doors; and flights of marble steps, the stones of which were of gigantic size, supplied the arches worthy of such a building." It was at this place that, in the clays of Esther, the voluptuous Ahasuerus, or Xerxes, as he was known to the Greek-, idled away his time '"among the cool mountain breezes of the metropolitan province, while his generals and soldiers were righting and dying for him in the East and the West." His clothes were the most costly and gorgeous. ''The richest and most brilliant silk was the material. The royal garment was a robe with ample folds and hanging sleeves. The color was purple and the embroidery was of gold. Around the waist was a girdle, and the skirts fell to the ankles. Under this robe was a tunic, also purple in color, but striped with white. On the monarch's feet were high, yellow shoes, buttoned at the front and tapering towards the toe." His head-dress consisted "of a tiara or miter, tall and cylindrical, swelling at the top and ending in a circle broader than the diameter of the cap. ***** Besides the tiara the monarch was also distinguished by the golden scepter and the parasol, the latter being carried either by himself or an attendant. The scepter was a tapering rod about five feet in length and finished at the smaller end with a bulb in the shape of an apple or pomegranate. When the king appeared in public he bore the scepter in his right hand, perpendicularly in front of his person." Also he was on all occasions adorned with gold ornaments and jewels. The Persian monarch was supreme in everything, lie was an absolute dictator. ''Being the representative of the Ormazd, the Persian deity, on earth, his dignity had a celestial flavor. His right to be king might not be questioned. To look askance at royalty was to be guilty of both treason and impiety. The king's wrath was but a reflex of the anger of heaven and his smile was the sunshine of the world. Everything pertaining to the person and life of the sovereign must, therefore, be on a scale of magnificence proportionate to his exaltation." This is why he dressed with such ostentation and splendor. As for the Persian people whom this monarch ruled, the \ had at least one trait in which they might serve as a model for our own civilization. That was their love of truth. It was their national trait, known and praised by the historians of their own times. "To ride, to draw the bow, and to speak the truth," says Herodotus, were the three principal precepts of Persian education. Their national god was worshiped as the Father of Truth. ''This element of character," says Ridpath, "was all the more conspicuous in the Persian race when contrasted with the lying and treacherous habits which were shamelessly illustrated in the career of most of the oriental nations. It was only in the later times of the Empire, when the effects of luxury had told disastrously on the moral character of the race, that the Persians imbibed the habit of intrigue and treachery, and even then, perhaps, <mly as employing the same weapons as their enemies. In the early times a rigid adherence to truth was practiced in the affairs of life, from the dealings of peasants and masons to the treaties of the king. Even a promise obtained on false information  or under false pledges was faithfully observed. It is said that the Persian love of truth was so marked as to lead the people to the avoidance of debt. It was conceived that the debtor was frequency placed in such relations of dependence as to encourage in him the practice of equivocation and falsehood. Therefore, it was better to avoid the obligation. Therefore, in the marketplace it was better to use few words and plain. Therefore, it was better, in all manner of communication, to be straightforward in speech, so that human conduct might be easily and sincerely fathomed to its bottom motives and impulses." The status of women in ancient Persia, on the whole, was below that which prevailed among the Jews. Polygamy was practiced, not only by the king but also by the nobles. It was a lower type, too, than had prevailed among the Egyptians at an earlier period. For on the Nile, "long before the advent of Christianity," as we are told by Mr. Gallichan in his recent book. Women Under Polygamy, "society had raised women to dignity and almost to adoration." And he goes on to say that "before we speak of the inevitable degradation of women under a system of polygamy, it would be well to reflect upon the feminism of the ancient Egyptians." But, as I say, the system in vogue among the Persians of the time of which we are speaking was inferior to this. "After the manner of the East," says Ridpath, "the kings adopted the harem as part of their domestic economy. * * * With the early kings a seraglio of three or four wives and a moderate retinue of concubines was deemed sufficient. Of these wives one only held the supreme place, and in contradistinction to the rest was called the queen. She only was permitted to wear the crown, and before her all the rest stood abashed or actually prostrated themselves as to royalty. * * The Persian queen, however, never shared her husband's authority; she had influence, but no power. The other wives  who must always be 
 selected from noble families  had the title of consort, and were thus in some measure superior to the miserable group of concubines below them. It was, however, a sad and dubious pre-eminence, which in its nature could bring neither honor nor happiness to those who possessed it." In the story of Esther we are told how absolute was the power of the Persian emperor over his wives and concubines. For at the great feast, which continued for one hundred eighty days and at which he discussed with representatives from every part of the empire the plans of the campaign against Egypt. he ordered his queen to expose her beauty to the assembled lords, and, when she refused, he cast her aside as an example of the punishment meted out to the disobedient wife, and a year or two later after his defeat at the hands of the Greeks, at Salamis, he chose the beautiful Jewish maiden in her place. Into this life of oriental pomp and splendor, of royalty and strange ways, was the modest Esther thrust by her own and her uncle's scheme for saving their people. And here doubtless she lived till the vengeful former queen, as it is believed, succeeded in her designs upon the life of the licentious monarch. For he died a tragic death in the midst of jealousy and intrigue. QUESTIONS. 1. 1 low was it that Esther was among the Persians when her people had lived in Palestine? 2. Describe the palace at Susa; describe Susa. 3. Describe the king's dress. 4. What is the significance of this? 5. What kind of life did the king live? 6. What trait of character was principal in the Persian character? 7. Does any one trait of character stand out in the American character? 8. Tell of the status of woman in Persian society at the time of Esther. 9. To what extent does revenge enter into the story of Esther? 10. Is revenge ever justifiable? Why? BIBLE LESSON FOR SEPTEMBER. "Oh how 1 love thy law! It is my meditation all the day." 1 5t, Bible, Esther. Chap. 1: 2nd, Chap. 2; 3rd. (bap. 3; 4th, Chan. 4: 5th, Chap. 5; 6th, Chap. 6; 7th. Chap. 7; 8th, Chap. 8; 9th, Chap. (>-10; 10th. Nehemiah. Chap. 1: 11th, Chap. 2: 12th. D. & C. Section 132; 13th. Section 133; 14th. Section 134; 15th, Section 135; 16th, Section 136; 17th. Bible, Daniel. Chap. 1: 18th. Chap. 2; 19th. Chap. 3: 20th. Chap. 4; 21st. Chap. 5; 22nd. Chap. 6; 23rd, Chap. 7; 24th, Chap. 8; 25th. Chap. 9; 26th. Chap. 10: 27th. Chap. 11: 28th. Chap. 12: 29th. loel. Chap. 1: 30th. Chap. 2. GUIDE LESSONS.