[Vol4 | August 1917 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson IV Home Economics - The Childs Recreation and the Par]

LESSON TV. Home Economics. fourth Week In September. THE CHILD'S RECREATION AND THE PARENTS' COOPERATION. Recreation is the refreshment of body or mind after toil, or any diverting or pleasurable exercise or employment. Recreation is absolutely necessary for the proper growth and development of every normal child and the parent who does not recognize this part of the child's training and provide for it is losing valuable time. The time for recreation, the place, the companionship and the kinds are all important. Beginning with the infant, he is trained to regular habits by giving him his little exercise and play at stated intervals and as he grows older it is still best to have play hours. If a child is allowed to play continuously. he soon becomes tired and cross. The wise mother does not allow this, but by giving him simple tasks, not by way of punishment, she diverts his energies in another direction and joy and contentment are the results. In many happy homes immediately following the evening meal is a favorite time for a romp. One evening each week may be spent by the family when every kind of work is forgotten and play is indulged in freely during the early hours. Place. There is no other place for recreation that can possibly equal the home. Home is where father, mother and all the children are united in making each other happy and in learning those things that will fit them to meet the stern realities of this life. The home that fails to prepare the child to take his part in the community has failed to that extent in its great mission and the hours of recreation are the times when the very best lessons may be taught. Companionship. Parents cannot afford to let the days an 1 months pass and not have time to play with the children. We must be companions to them while they are small or we never can gain that coveted place at all, and in order to do this we must be with them. Many fathers are of necessity away from home a great deal and that places an added burden on mothers but in such cases if father is present with his family only at meal time he ought to make it possible to spend five minutes in play with the little ones before leaving them. Fathers and mothers must not grow too old to pay; the old idea was that mother should play with baby, and there all ended; the modern idea is that father and mother must play with all their babies no matter what age if they would keep their love, sympathy and confidence. Kinds of Recreation. There is no recreation or sport that is good legitimate pastime but we can afford to enjoy it with our children. When they arc small teach them to play games. There are marbles, ten pins and others for the floor, and tiddledy winks, dominoes, checkers, flinch, carry and many others for the table. Tn all games the child must be taught to play for the pleasure of the game and the training he gets but never for what he wins. Playing marbles for "keeps," as the boys call it, should be forbidden by the Latter-day Saint parents, because it is the first step towards gambling. For a boy to keep the marble he wins in a game may seem of little consequence at the time, but watch him as he grows to love the game merely for what he vines and we need not be surprised when in later years he plays for money. Tiddledv winks is enjoyed by parents and children at the same time. The baby soon learns how hard to press the tiddledy on the wink and the proper position of each in order to gain his point. It uses judgment and he also trains his sense of touch, which
are two good lessons; but the greatest things accomplished are teaching him to use only his own color in winks, also to wait his turn to play. In this way he learns to respect the rights of others. There is no better time or way to teach honesty than in gaming. The boy who will play a good clean game no matter who wins or loses will be strong enough in character to deal honestly in examinations at school and in every act of life. How often in social gatherings, where games were indulged in, have we seen grown ups who were not satisfied to follow the rules but would cheat or play unfair in order to gain points. I think one is safe in concluding that the person who allows himself to do such a thing even in a game would take advantage of his neighbor and would not be honest in business. Parents who play with their children have a chance to teach them the games according to rules, and the children who play them correctly for years will find no pleasure in doing otherwise. When such children enter the public school they will not feel that the rules are hard to follow, and when grown up they are not apt to be the law breakers in the community. Parents, we cannot be impressed too seriously with the importance of the first lessons we teach our children. Their characters are formed under our immediate care and we are responsible for their conduct. Going back to the games. With tiddledy winks, we may class  crocinole. carrum, marbles, etc.. in which the hand and eye are trained. For number work, flinch cards on which the figures from 1 to 15 are found are useful, and dominoes are good in the hands of the little folks. They soon learn that 5-10- 15 and 20 are the numbers that score, and that these are formed by adding the numbers at each end of the line, for example: 2 and 3 equal 5. 4 and 1 equal 5, 5 and blank equal 5, 1 and double 2 equal 5. Then quickly learn that double 6 and double 4 equal 20 the highest score at one play. Children who learn these things in play before they reach school age are a step in advance of one whose first acquaintance with numbers in the public school where they are given as a task. In selecting play things care and thought must be exercised to gain the best results. One good desirable toy or useful game is better than a number of poor ones. Toys that are easily broken are not suitable for children because they teach a child to be destructive and careless, or in some instances cause the shedding of tears. Examples: Tin toys instead of iron, china and glass dishes instead of enamel, paper books for tiny tots instead of muslin, and so on all along the line. Good playthings  kindergarten balls in colors. Kindergarten beads in colors and formed in cubes, cylinders, and spheres, these and a shoe lace will amuse a tiny tot for hours. Large wooden cubes are splendid because 
 the little unsteady hands can stack them while small ones fall and cause a child to become disagreeable. Blunt scissors, paper and paste with box of non-poisonous paints will bring joy to any child because dolls, wagons, animals, trains, valentines or any other thing wanted can be made by him. Black board and crayonare good: swing in the basement for winter and out in the open air for summer, sand box in the basement for winter, and to these may be added "erector toys"  carpenter's bench and a self id, .U and many other things, as the parents study the needs of their children. Good books are indispensable in every home. Indoor recreation is not all we must consider, as the children grow, the open air calls them and we must go too. When baseball, tennis, croquet and other sports are indulged in it is well for father to match his skill with his sons. The long walks in the fields and woods: the hunting and fishing trips are all of double value if parents and children enjoy them together. Our sons and daughter will enjoy our company if we show them that we are interested in the sport that is fascinating them at any particular age or at any season of the year. The writer is acquainted with a father and mother who accompanied their sons to the highest peak on the mountain just for the joy of all being together. The swimming hole or pool is a place where father and sons should go together, or better if a suitable pool is available the whole family should go. Perhaps we do not swim but we can learn. Groups of boys who go swimming unaccompanied by older people often learn things that are very detrimental to them when, if guided aright, much good would result from the exercise. Our public dances would never have reached their present standard had the parents continued to attend and take part in them. We must keep with our boys and girls as nearly as possible. T realize what many are saying. "We haven't time to do all theirs." If co-operation in the home and on the farm is practiced and all work together, then all share equally in the hours for recreation, much good might be accomplished. QUESTIONS. What is the true meaning of recreation? How can a child, who plays all the time get recreation? Where should children play?' What is the ideal companionship for children's play hours? Suggest other forms of innocent amusement. I low can you interest children, innocently and wisely, on Sunday afternoons? We ad this from U. S. Department of Labor, Children's bureau, Washington. CHILDREN'S PLAY A PATRIOTIC CALL. Washington, June 29.  "Public provision for recreation is not a luxury to be cut off but a necessity to be conserved." Miss Julia C. Lathrop, Chief of the Children's Bureau of the U. S. Department of Labor, District in discussing Columbia the report which has on just Facilities for Children's been issued Play in said by the Bureau, the to-day: "An English authority has lately pointed out the demoralization to boys and girls caused by the breaking down of clubs and the withdrawal to the army of recreation leaders, and he has traced much of the increase in juvenile delinquency in England to the chaos in recreation activities which has prevailed since the war. "This is a good time to remind ourselves that the continuance and development of all types of innocent and healthful recreation in every community offer a call to patriotic service for many who can not go to the front. The strain and anxiety which are certain to grow in this country for an indefinite period ahead of us need to be counterbalanced by greater community effort to provide opportunity for wholesome play." Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing,1917-18 The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing will begin its fourteenth year, Monday, September 17, 1917, Fourth floor, Bishop's Building. Term eight months. Two courses will be offered as follows: COURSE I NURSING. This course consists of general instructions in nursing, seven hours and a half per week. It includes in addition, a series of lectures and practical demonstrations in the following subjects: Invalid Cooking, Practical Nursing including First Aid Work, Sterilization, Drugs and Solutions, and Contagious Diseases. These lecture courses are given successfully and cover a period of five hours a week. The Nursing course also includes lectures on Public Health, Prevenpon and Treatment of Diseases, to be given by eminent physicians, surgeons and other specialists. Each student of this course will be required to do at least 20 hours of actual practical nursing during the term, under the direction of the School. Tuitions $25.00 cash and 30 days service charity nursing. Tuition to be paid and contracts to be.signed upon registration. COURSE II OBSTETRICS. This course consists of technical instruction in Obstetrics, seven hours and a half per week. In addition it includes all of the regular and special features of Course I. TuiPon $50.00 cash, and service at five charity obstetrical cases or 30 days' service in charity nursing. For further information  address Mrs. Amy B. Lyman, General Secretary, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City. Utah. I National Junior No.  Pressure Cooker 0 those who expect to conserve fruit and vegetables, we recommend the National Junior No. 1 Pressure Cooker. It serves a fourfold purpose in this, that it conserves waste of fuel, | waste of time, energy and foodstuffs. Either cans or jars may be used. However, we recommend more particularly the use of the fruit jar, as it is much easier to handle. According to Bulletin No. 521, page | 25, we quote PROFESSOR O. | G. BENSON, as saying: "The Steam Pressure Canners are the most successful for canning of all kinds of vegetables and meats, because the greater heat and pressure effect complete sterilization." Professor Benson is authority on the preservation of foodstuffs and is one of the Government employees. We, therefore, accept his statement as authoritative.