Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1899 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN or ALL NATIONS" INSTRUCTION FOR NURSES: Dr. Margaret C. Roberts expects to open another class for a Corps of Nurses in November of this year. It is ardently hoped that under the auspices of the Relief Society in the several stakes of Zion near Salt Lake County, suitable young and middle-aged women may be selected who have the ability' and aptitude for this employment, after taking a course of physiology and general nursing. 'The term will continue for seven months with three lessons a week. Each student must be supplied with text books, note books and pencils, cost not exceeding $2.50. Dr. Roberts will have some of the best surgeons and physicians of Salt Lake City to give lessons during the course. As the course of instruction will be given free of charge, in consideration of this free course of study, each sister taking it will agree for a certain length of time to nurse under the direction of the president of the Relief Society in the respective locality where she resides free of charge.... —kKditorial Note RELIEF SOCIETY IN ST. JOHNS, KANSAS: Our society was organized July 8, 1899, by our mission president, Elder Wm. Jack, and we now have seventeen members enrolled. We have in our treasury, twenty dollars. We have given one ice cream social, from which we cleared five dollars and seventy cents. We have pieced two quilts, and quilted three; also made three comforts and sewed carpet rags. We have held twenty-five working and testimony meetings.... —Lucy Breckenridge, Pres. Margaret Budge, Sec. FOR EVER If I had thought our parting was for ever I should have wept, That day when 'twixt the low hill and the heather The dead day crept— If I had thought that no more should we linger, Just you and I If I had thought — Nay, rather thinking over Of days long gone, I can look back, remembering, though we sever, Our hearts are one! —C. E. C. Weigall VISIT OF A NOTABLE WOMAN: The last week in November, we expect Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Stetson, poet, author and lecturer. She is the granddaughter of Lyman Beecher, and grand niece of Henry Ward Beecher, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Isabella Beecher Hooker. Mrs. Stetson will be the guest of Mrs. A. W. McCune while in Salt Lake City, and of Mrs. Susa Y. Gates in Provo, where she is expected to speak under the auspices of the Brigham Young Academy. Arrangements are in progress for a series of lectures in this city. Mrs. Stetson not only comes of the celebrated Beecher stock, but is also descended from the remarkable New England Perkins family Her book, Women and Economics, is everywhere regarded as the bravest, brightest, most origina] and most readable volume on women. —KEditorial Note Page 656 Miss ELAINE WHITELAW, National Director for Women's Activities for the National Foundation, at a luncheon in Salt Lake City in June, presented the Foundation's highest award, the Silver Plaque, to two organizations. Mrs. Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society, received the award for that organization. Mrs. C. R. Lomax, Vice-President of the Utah Federation of Women's Clubs, received the award for her group. The awards were given for the support of the polio emergency volunteer program, the vaccination program, and the annual March of Dimes. HIRLEY O'NEILL, nineteen, was awarded a silver medal and $750 for rescuing a classmate who was attacked by a shark at Baker's Beach, California. The medal, given by the Carnegie Hero Fund Commission, was only the fourth such award to be presented since 1955. MARGUERITE MARY GAHAGAN, formerly a reporter for the Detroit News, is now editing and publishing a weekly newspaper North Woods Call, "a paper for all who enjoy the north country." It is printed in the little town of Roscommon, Michigan, and is known as one of the most interesting and unusual newspapers in the country.