FAIR OR FALSE FACES 661? By contrast, let's look at the word "false." 'These are some of its meanings: "dishonest; not faithful or loyal; untrue; treacherous; hypocritical; sham; feigned; not trustworthy." How hideous this image of that which is false! Fair or false—which will you choose? If you're smart, you'll choose the fair. You'll be fair in everything you do. Whether it's in sports or in the more serious game of life, you'll play fair; you won't cheat or chisel. You'll be fair with friends and associates by being just and generous. You'll cultivate a fair face and a fair figure by clean, healthy living. For your own sake, be fair, be just, be genuine, if you would be happy. Then, when you look in the mirror, your real face will reflect the honest thoughts you think, the honest words you speak, the honest life you live. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF —o<- ictraction Winona F. Thomas I went to paint an autumn scene With canvas, paints and brush. Only the music of the stream Disturbed the canyon's hush. I meant to do a rustic hut Beneath an old oak tree, But a squirrel in search of nuts Came and posed for me. <> All Js Well Elste McKinnon Strachan Though this hour is folded in darkness— No least moon lanterns the sky, Though the clouds are hidden in shadow, And no stars testify That God dwells in his heaven; We know, without doubt, he is there: His gentle rain washes the midnight, And pure is the wet, sweet air. Recipes From the lorthenn California ITlisston Submitted by Hazel S. Love CRAB AND SHRIMP SHELLS 1 can crab 8 hard-boiled eggs 1 can shrimp 2 tbsp. Chopped parsley 2 c. Soft bread crumbs 2 tsp. Minced onion 1% ¢. Table cream 1 tsp. Salt 1% c. Salad dressing " tsp. Pepper Remove stiff tendons from crab meat and black line from shrimps. Mix all ingrcdients together and put in patty shells and bake for fifteen minutes at 350°. Makes ten servings. Surimp SALAD IN Rinc Mo. Tp 2 tbsp gelatine juice of % lemon 1 c. Cold water 1 c. Celery diced 1 Cc, Mayonnaise 1 small green pepper diced 1 c. Whipping cream 1 small bottle stuffed olives, diced 4 hard-boiled eggss, diced 1% tsp. Salt Dissolve gelatine in cold water and place over pan of hot water to finish dissolving. Then cool. Add mavonnaise, mix with cream, whipped, and add remaining ingredients and pour in ring mold, When it is set, unmold and fill center with shrimp sauce. Shrimp Sauce:. Whipping cream "" ¢. Catsup. Mayonnaise 1 Ib. Fresh shrimp i c i4c¢ Whip cream, add mayonnaise and catsup. Add shrimp. Make sauce just before scrving. Makes twelve servings. Datr Nutr Breap 1 c. Boiling water 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Soda 1 egg 1 c. Chopped dates 2 c. Flour Y tsp. Salt 1 c. Nuts 1 tbsp. Butter 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 c. Sugar (scant) Add soda to boiling water and pour over chopped dates. Cream butter and sugar, beat in egg, add liquid from date mixture, vanilla, and dry ingredients. Beat well, add dates and nuts. Let stand five minutes in loaf pan. Bake at 350° for fifty minutes. Makes one loaf. Set SHRIMP SALAD 1 pkg. Lemon gelatine 3 hard-boiled eggs 1% c hot water 2 c. Chopped cclery 7 C. Whipping cream 1 can shrimp 72 €. Mavonnaise 1 tsp. Grated onion 1 small pkg. Philadelphia cream cheese Dissolve gelatine in hot water, let set until soupy or mushy. Whip cream, add mayonnaise and cream cheese. Then add this mixture to the gelatine. Add remaining ingredients and put into molds to finish setting. Makes nine servings. Page 662