Work IT leeting—Physical Satety Factors in the Home (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 4—Household Hazards Charlotte A. Larsen For Tuesday, January 12, 1960 Objective: To recognize and correct hazards in the home. esTRHE American home should have ample space for happy, healthful, spiritual family living — but no room for accidents." Mothers shoulder the major responsibility for the safe environment, safe maintenance, and the safe attitudes of their children, their menfolk, and themselves. When we learn that home accidents cause about onethird of all the accidental deaths, and about fifty per cent of the injuries, it becomes apparent that something must be done to prevent home accidents. Accident Prevention a Major Issue The importance of preventing accidents in the home has been regarded as such a major issue that srants were made by the W. K. Kellogg Foundation, in 1953, to eight states to study the home accident problem and take steps to improve the situation. United Effort Can Prevent Accidents A story is told about a small child who was lost in the wheat fields of North Dakota. 'The parents were frantic from looking for their child in the maze of wheat acreages and called on the neighbors for assistance. An alarm was sent out, and the farmers responded from all Page 692 neighboring communities to aid in finding the lost child. Finally, someone said, ""Let's join hands and make a great big circle as we search." 'The several thousands of people joined hands to form a circle and covered all the area in that vicinity. The child was found sleeping in the wheat fields. This was brought about because people themselves decided to join hands in an attempt to find the lost child. The same thing holds true in our attempting to prevent the loss of life. The more we join hands as interested mothers, the greater the possibility we have of reducing the loss of life from accidents and fires. Safe Environment— How Do We Get It? Each of us has the responsibility to ask himself — is our home unsafe? What can I do about it? Check your own residence. You may be surprised at how many booby traps you maintain. It is apparent that there are three necessary procedures for making a home safe: 1. Safety awareness on the part of people in the home. 2. Thorough and intelligent studies of the why's and wherefore's of home accldents. LESSON DEPARTMENT 3. Homes enginecred for safety. According to Dr. Oakley Gordon of the University of Utah Psychology Department, the main cause of accidents is from hurrying. The following table shows why accidents happen: 35% by hurrying; 22% not paying attention; 11% excitement, not including hurry or anger; 11% doing wrong thing but knowing better; 7% doing wrong thing but not knowing better; 8% wanted to do it, nO apparent reason, just wanted to; 4% in anger; and 2% attentiongetting or showing off. Falls Falls account for more accidental deaths and injuries than any other cause, with the exception of traffic. Falls are due to unsafe things, such as: makeshift ladders; overexhaustion; overwaxed floors; spilled liguids on floors; cluttered stairways— skates, marbles, scatter rugs; curled edges of linoleum or frayed carpets; heavy lifting; poor furniture arrangement; painted porch steps and walks; slipping on bathtub; open stairways; and dark passageways. More fatal falls occur in the bedroom than anywhere else in the home. The biggest reason for this is that folks get out of bed at night, half asleep, and stumble over the chair or trip on a rug and fall. This is particularly true of older people. The use of a bed lamp or flash light will prevent many an accident. Ways of Prevention Do your household reaching and climbing on a steady, sturdy ladder with treaded steps, don't over-reach, but move the ladder. If you are going to wax the floors, use a non-skid wax. Apply floor wax in a thin coat and buff it thoroughly to make it less slippery. 693 Keep stairways uncluttered and well lighted — skates and marbles on steps could result in serious injury. Have handrails for three or more steps. Make it a rule to wipe up any grease, water, or peelings spilled on the kitchen floor as soon as you notice them. Make sure your throw-rugs are anchored with rubber matting, or finished on the back with a non-skid treatment. Tack down all curled linoleum or frayed carpets. If you must paint your porchsteps, use an Outdoor or rough finish paint or use rubber guards on each step. Place a rubber mat in the bathtub and make sure that there is a strong bar along the. Wall to grasp. Heavy lifting may be responsible for falls and injuries. 'To lift a heavy object, get close to it, bend the knees, keep the back straight, and put one foot slightly ahead of the other. Bending from the waist may cause a strained back or rupture. Remember the stairway to the basement should never be used to store brooms, mops, and other articles. A common hazard in the home is the enclosed stairway having a door at the top which swings in over the stairs. 'This action has the effect of allowing one to enter without realizing the stairs are there, and causing one proceeding up the stairs to step back down to allow the door to open. The door should always swing out away from the stairs, causing one to pause in opening the door to enter the stairway, and allowing the person proceeding up the stairs to exit without having to step back down a step or two to allow the door to open. Questions 1. How long has it been since you have checked on possible booby traps in your home? What corrections have been made? 2. Name some of the main causes of accidents in the home. Literate re— America'