LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony Lesson 3 Matthew The Publican Helpful REFERENCES James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 193-195, 222. A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve, consult index under heading of "Matthew". E. F. Scott, The Literature of the New Testament, pp. 65-75, 18-52. Because of the many references listed in this lesson, it would be well to read the entire Gospel of Matthew. AN UNUSUAL CALL. ? Our Lord's call to Matthew was one of the most unusual and noteworthy acts of his ministry. His choice of a publican, one of a detested class in Jewish society, to be one of His disciples and apostles indicates that it is not always best to follow the usual maxims of worldly wisdom. An executive in a business or church would never pick men to fill responsible positions whose social status and reputation were such as to prove embarrassing or dangerous. In respect to the Savior's choice of Matthew, Professor A. B. Bruce wrote: "A publican disciple, much more a publican apostle, could not fail to be a stumbling-block to Jewish prejudice, and therefore to be, for the time at least, a source of weakness rather than of strength. Yet, while perfectly aware of this fact, Jesus invited to the intimate fellowship of disciplehood one who had pursued the occupation of a tax-gatherer, and at a later period selected him to be one of the Twelve. His procedure in this case is all the more remarkable when contrasted with the manner in which He treated others having outward advantages to recommend them to favorable notice, and who showed their readiness to follow by volunteering to become disciples; of whom we have a sample in the scribe who came and said, 'Master, I will follow Thee whithersoever thou goest.' (Matt. 8:18-20) This man, whose social position and professional attainments seemed to point him out as a very desirable acquisition, the Master deliberately scared away by a gloomy picture of his own destitute condition...." Matthew's formal call to discipleship is very interestingly told by Luke who applies to him his more strictly Jewish name Levi. "And after these things he went forth, and saw a publican, named Levi, sitting at the receipt of custom: and he said unto him, Follow me. And he left all, rose up, and followed him. And Levi made him a great feast in his own house: and there was a great company of publicans and of others that sat down with them. But their scribes and Pharisees murmuted against his disciples, saying, Why do ye eat and drink with publicans and sinners? And Jesus answering said unto them, They that'are whole 632 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE need not a physician; but they that are sick. I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance." (Luke 5:27-32) This quotation reveals the bitterness and hatred of the Jews for the publicans as a social group. The above scripture is interesting in two other respects. One is that Matthew had a generous and hospitable soul. The other is the use of veiled sarcasm in the Savior's rejoinder to the scribes and Pharisees. "A hated publican may be better material for an apostle than a self-righteous hypocrite," we may justly believe Him to be thinking. "Confident in the power of truth, He chose the base things of the world in preference to things held in esteem, assured that they would conquer at the last." (Bruce) FARMING OUT TAXES. ? In the time of Christ the country of Judea was nominally under the surveillance of the governor of Syria, and received a procurator. The latter lived at Caesarea, though at special times he took up his residence in Jerusalem in order to give the large number of people there his personal attention. The procurator had three main functions: To collect taxes levied by the Romans; to act as a judge on important cases; and to command the military forces in the country. The taxes collected in Judea went directly to Caesar, because Palestine was an imperial and not a senatorial province. (See Matt. 22:17 ff.) Many Jews were hired to collect the taxes. Each one of these individuals secured the privilege of collecting the customs in a certain district, for which he paid a stipulated sum each year. All revenue beyond that amount would be his own profit. While the law was supposed to determine a maximum, it was so irregular in practice that room was left open for extortion. The collectors or "publicans" (from the Latin publicani) were much hated by the Jews, both as extortioners and as Roman agents. Now Matthew was one of this hated class to whom the disliked foreign power farmed out taxes. It would, of course, be unfair to suppose that all publicans were extortioners and unfair in their exaction of taxes. Matthew made his home in Capernaum and for aught we know that city may have been his special district for tax collection. It is possible, of course, that he had charge of some other district but kept his office in the city for convenience. The very nature of his business would make him widely known in Galilee. There is little reason to suppose that Matthew, in his office of tax collector, was not well acquainted with the preaching of our Lord before the latter formally told him to "follow me". It is even possible that he had met the Master personally. MATTHEW BECOMES AN APOSTLE.?After the Savior's first call to Matthew, he found ample opportunity to study the new disciple. The latter's qualities of mind and heart satisfied the Christ that he should hold one of the highest offices that, can be conferred on man in the flesh?the Holy Apostleship. | Matthew was therefore a member of that famous little band of twelve whom Christ ordained and set apart for the ministry. (See Matt. 10:3) Aside from the facts already mentioned, we know little or nothing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 633 of Matthew's career. There is an old tradition to the effect that he carried the Gospel to distant lands and later met a martyr's death. Common tradition credits him with writing the Gospel of Matthew. We shall now consider that book. HE AUTHORSHIP OF THE GOSPEL OF MATTHEW ? The authorship of the Gospel of Matthew, like that of John, has been debated. Among Latter-day Saint theologians it is claimed that Matthew wrote the Gospel for the following reasons: (1) The internal evidence in the Gospel shows throughout that the author was a Palestinian Jew as is evident from his knowledge of the Old Testament, the geography of Palestine, Jewish history, manners and customs, etc. (2) The cosmopolitan and universal points of view exhibited by the Gospel. This would be expected from a true apostle. Most of the views held to be narrowly Jewish can be readily explained. THE TEACHING OF THE BOOK OF MATTHEW.?Assuming Matthew was the author of the Gospel by that name we may point out its importance and teaching. Matthew may not be the most beautiful of the Gospels?perhaps we can accord John that honor? but it is by common consent the most important. From the first this Gospel has been placed at the very beginning of collections of New Testament books. As Professor Scott remarks, "It has been accepted in all times as the authoritative account of the life of Christ, the fundamental document of the Christian religion." As he further points out, Matthew's primacy is due to the following causes: (1) It has an arrangement excellently adapted for teaching purposes?much better in fact than the other Gospels. (2) It has the fullest and most concise account of Christ's teaching. "Not only have a great number of the Sayings been preserved, but they are grouped with remarkable skill, so as to reinforce and illustrate one another. Of this, the most notable example is the socalled Sermon on the Mount.... As arranged by Matthew, the discourse has always been regarded as the classical exposition of the Christian ethic." (3) It is by all odds the most comprehensive of the Gospels. The presentation of Christ's teaching and activities is many-sided. Its universal outlook has commended it to all interests. (4) Church interests are constantly before the author. He is the only writer of the Gospels who mentions the church. (See 16:18; 18:17) Matthew "records a number of parables in such a way as to make them apply to the needs and conditions of the church.... As the church Gospel, it has taken its place in all ages as the standard presentation of the faith." One of Matthew's outstanding teachings is that Christ is the longlooked-for Messiah. He constantly refers to prophecies in the Old Testament that foretell His life and mission. (See 1:23; 2:6, 18; 3:3; 4:6; 12:18-21; 13:14, 15) In certain instances it would even appear that his use of the Scriptures is somewhat strained. Matthew furthermore emphasizes the contrast between the teachings of our Lord and the re- 634 quirements of the ancient Law. (Sec 5:17ff.) We have already considered the Sermon on the Mount im an earlier series of lessons. Certainly Matthew should be thanked for giving to us this matchless exposition of the good life. In his teaching Matthew constantly relates the instruction of Christ to the practical needs of the people in the church. Note the direction on (1) marriage and divorce (5:27-32), (2) fasting and prayer (6:1-18), (3) rules for conduct toward children and brethren (18:10-14; 5:25-26; 7:12, 18:15- 22), (4) being steadfast under persecution (10:17-36; 16:24-28). Matthew's discussion of Christ's promise to Peter (16:18, 19), the Transfiguration (17:1-13), Christ's mission "to the lost sheep of the house of Israel" (15:24), of the events pertaining to the Lord's Advent in glory (24), and the parable of the Ten Virgins are all of great interest and doctrinal worth. Our limited space precludes mention of other important teachings. Our Western world owes much to Matthew, the despised publican.  SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Questions and Problems (Deal only with those that time and circumstances permit. ) 1. Comment on the principle of democracy that should exist in the Church in the light of Chnist's choice of Matthew, the publican, = an apostle. 2. Explain as best you can diy Matthew was willing to suddenly leave his business at Christ's call. (Show that he could have been well acquainted with Christ's teachings. At that time.) 3. Have some sister contrast and compare the attitude of Matthew and Simon the Zealot toward the Romans. Which of these two men would be better liked by the Jews so far as their foreign views were concerned? (Hint: Compare a Publican and a Zealot. See encyclopedia) 4. How would you answer a person who asserts that Matt. 15:24 is "narrowly Jewish" in outlook and anything but unselfish? (Consult 3 Nephi 15:15-16) 5. What is the practical value of Matthew's Gospel for today?