The Homemaker of 'Tomorrow By Vivian Minyard Extension Specialist in Clothing University of Idaho Agricultural Extension Service O other profession occupies the attention and efforts of more people than that of homemaking. Every homemaker should strive to do the best possible job and be the highest type of individual. She should have certain ends to achieve and thereby develop her personality. The following worth while aims are worthy ones for consideration: 1. She should always look her best. 2. She should have outside interests. 3. She should be willing to accept other people's viewpoints. 4. She should improve her outlook through good reading. 5. She should take care of her health. 1. She should always look her best. The adornment of the human body is one of the oldest arts. One never goes through a museum without seeing something which has been used to adorn the body. This may be an ancient costume, a bit of jewelry, footwear, etc. The Greeks, 5,000 years ago, used cosmetics of various kinds. The only difference between now and then is that they are now available to everyone, and at that time only a few could have them. So it has always been a natural desire to want to look one's best. The first requirement is to know one's own figure. One individual looks her best in ruffles and frills, and another looks better in tailored, plain costumes. The dainty, feminine type requires different clothin than the active, athletic type. Clothing should always be selected for the individual rather than fashion, for it tells much about the wearer. The highest compliment one can receive is to be told that her dress looks like her. After knowing one's type, the second step in looking one's best is to plan carefully as to color, style, etc., so new purchases will look well with the wearing apparel already on hand. To be well dressed one needs to consider the entire effect, which is much more important than details. Clothing should be selected for the occasions for which it is to be used. Good grooming is a very important factor. To be well groomed at all times implies respect for those who have to live with us and look at us. Good grooming is merely the intelligent use of information about the care of the person and the clothes one wears. Good grooming results in self-respect, better poise, more self-confidence, beauty, and is the first requirement in style. Any homemaker owes it to her family to look her best at home as well as out in company. A pretty dress, well fitted and suitable to the wearer, helps make living more pleasant. The smartest looking dress will do nothing for the person who neglects the fundamental principles of cleanliness and neatness. One needs to care— "Oh, I could talk for an hour," said Nell, On the psychic basis of dressing well. It isn't a question of pocketbooks, It isn't a figure, it isn't looks, It isn't going to first-rate places, 586 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Believe me, the thing has a psychic basis. It's caring—caring a terrible lot Whether you're right, or whether you're not."' —Alice Duer Miller. The attractive individual has good posture. Good posture indicates self-confidence and poise. Good posture is restful. One might think of posture as being "position of body". Therefore, it pertains to sitting and lying positions, as well as standing. Every minute the body is being shaped, whether one is sitting, reading, washing dishes, sewing or driving an automobile. The person with poor posture can never look as well in her clothes as one with good posture. Everyone can, with persistent effort, improve posture by taking exercises. There are hygienic, spiritual, economic and social values in having good posture. Organs in the body cannot function properly if in a cramped position, which results in poor health. Without good health all other values are lost to a great extent. There are several factors which may be the cause of poor posture; namely: Malnutrition, overfatigue, carelessness on the part of the person in not using all muscles, wrong mental attitude, poorly fitted clothing, foot arch trouble and defective eyesight. Any individual with poor posture should determine why, and then make an honest effort to correct it. Those with good posture should always strive to keep it. The one who looks her best has a ready smile. The memory of a smile lasts forever. Leave a smile for those who have none left to give. *Verse from Dress Design and Selection, by Marguerite Stotts Hopkins, Macmillan. 2. She should have outside interests. It is an absolute necessity, for every homemaker to have outside interests. These may vary considerably. For some, it may be church work or community work of some nature. Others have hobbies for their outside interests. Everyone should get more joy out of life, and the happiest people are the ones with hobbies. Great people have hobbies so they can completely lose themselves and forget their work. The hobby should be as different as possible from regular work. Each individual must make his own choice of hobbies. Some may wish to collect things, and others will want to learn facts about something in which they are particularly interested. Any one of these makes for a more interesting individual and gives one an opportunity to work out original ideas, which is valuable in itself. - One should not confuse a hobby with a fad. Many great inventions have been the result of hobbies. Photography, the electric motor, the telegraph, the typewriter, the sewing machine and others were invented through "play". A 3. She should be willing to accept other people's viewpoints. One's views are more valuable if the other fellow's point of view is understood. From others come the greatest lessons. An individual should not mind criticism, but rather, profit from it. If it is justified, do something about it and make a better individual. If it is ignorant, say nothing. If it is untrue, merely disregard it. If it is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 587 unfair, show strength of character by refraining from irritation. She should improve her outlook through good reading. Every homemaker should plan to have some time for reading. It is through reading that one is able to understand other people and appreciate their prob- -lems. The understanding person ls a good citizen. It has been said that no man is poor who possesses a good book. It might also be said that no man can be lonely among books. A variety of types should be read: Autobiography, fiction, travel, poetty, etc. All have their place. Michelangelo, it is said, once stood in contemplation of a block of marble on which he was to begin work, in rapt thought as to its potentialities. "Within you," he said, "there is both beauty and ugliness. Which comes out depends on the sculptor." What comes out in the individual may be greatly influenced by the reading one does. The individual, like the plant, either grows or withers. It is the duty of each homemaker to keep growing. 5. She should take good care of her health. Health is of vital importance to every homemaker and should not be neglected, ever. It is more than being free from sickness. Health means having enough vigor, endurance and enthusiasm to make life worth living. Physical, mental and spiritual health are each important and dependent on each other. Proper food and personal habits must be obeyed to make for good health. The individual should get *The American Soroptomist. Knowledge, then understand it, accept it and practice it. Bodies vary greatly as to strength and endurance, so it is necessary for each person to know his own possibilities and then strive to maintain them. Recreation should be considered in connection with health. Everyone should have a few minutes daily to do something for themselves. Clothing, in relation to health, needs careful consideration. The homemaker whose feet hurt because her shoes are poorly fitted and not suitable has a difficult job. As each homemaker works toward developing her personality, she will profit by keeping in mind the following thoughts suggested by Marshall Fields of Chicago as being worthy ones to remember: The value of time, the success of perseverance, the pleasure of working, the dignity of simplicity, the worth of character, the power of kindness, the influence of example, the obligation of duty, the wisdom of economy, the virtue of patience, the improvement of talent and the joy of originating. Personality is that which distinguishes a person and makes him stand out as different from someone else. It radiates when one has a natural, easy, unafraid and alert manner, a pleasant, happy disposition or outlook, a fresh, well-groomed appearance, a costume which emphasizes desirable features and good posture. The personality of the homemaker is reflected in the home and community. The stability of the nation depends on the security of the home and community. +Published in National 4-H Club News, Chicago.