Education for Family Life Family Relationships Lesson 3 My Responsibility to My Mate HOW often it is that each of us turns his thoughts, casually or otherwise, to the subject of my mate's responsibility to me, and in his thinking multiplies and magnifies incidents of failure on the part of his mate to measure up to expectations. But how seldom it is that we pause to contemplate the subject of my responsibility to my mate and to attempt to determine to what extent I am failing to make the grade. Responsibilities in any relationship are determined by the purpose and aim for which that relationship exists. Therefore, in order to determine my responsibility to my mate, I must be conscious of the common purpose toward which we are working. Students of family relations today have accepted the fulfillment or development of personality as the most valuable value that comes from family living. Striving toward such a value constitutes a worthy aim for all family groups. 644 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The richest realization of the fulfillment of personality is possible only through the unselfish cooperation of a man and a woman united in marriage for the purpose of carrying on normal family life in which the group consists of husband, wife and children. We use the phrase unselfish cooperation in the true and full sense of its meaning, for only as we can develop unselfishness in our character can we be instrumental in facilitating the fulfillment of the personality of our mate. Unselfish behavior does not mean that I shall be a passive person, always ready and willing to relinquish my own wishes for the momentary satisfaction of the wishes of my mate, but rather that I shall preserve my own identity as a person and be willing to sacrifice the lesser value of the present for the more permanent and richer value of the future as it relates to our relationship. It implies further that I enter marriage with a conscious determination to do all in my power to make possible the fullest realization of the purposes and possibilities of my mate. On the other hand, it does not mean that I shall decide what is good for my mate and devote every effort toward making him or her over, justifying my action on the basis that it is for his or her good, while in reality | am thinking of myself. It means that I shall take a careful inventory of all of our internal resources and try to use them most advantageously for the fulfillment of the personalities of both of us according to our wishes, desires, and the standard of values to which we have agreed. My next obligation is to know my mate. I must try to understand his personality. This, undoubtedly, will require knowledge concerning his earlier life in the parental home. Many of his behavior patterns would not appear as stumbling blocks in our path of happiness if I knew the background concerning their formation. In order to understand personality I must seek causes of behavior. If I know the reason for certain actions, I shall not be so prone to take a fatalistic attitude toward the faults of my mate and will try to tactfully and slowly bring about a change rather than to use up my energy in criticism and complaints. Merely because two people live under the same roof year after year as husband and wife does not necessarily assure either one that he knows the other, and yet such knowledge is taken for granted by the majority of mates. "Guess I might just as well give up trying to make Mable happy," said Bill, in a discouraged tone of voice. "I give her everything I possibly can, clothes, spending money, trips, the use of the car, and a maid so that she will be free to go whenever she wishes; but somehow she does not seem to be happy ? at times I even think she hates me." And about the same time Mable said to her friend in an equally discouraged tone of voice, "I wish I knew what I might do in order to please Bill. I feel certain that he is disappointed in me, but I simply cannot discover why. He is so different from what I thought he would be. Before we were married I thought that he would want me to be what we call the 'old-fashioned' type of wife, to spend most of my RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 645 time with the children and making the home attractive; but instead of that, he seems to think that all I should do is dress up and go to parties. I truly dislike to live the way I do, but if it pleases Bill I'll do it. If he would just make me feel that I am a part of his life and - would take me into his confidence rather than to treat me as if I am merely someone to whom he can give things, I am sure we both would be much happier." One reason why there is so much unhappiness and disappointment in marriage is because there are so many Bills and Mables?not necessarily persons in the same financial situation, but in the same situation as far as knowing each other is concerned. We do not know a person unless we know his needs, his wishes, his goals, his unsatisfied longings, and his capacities. Such an insight into the personality of another can be gained only through concentrating attention and focusing interest upon the problem, together with an earnest desire to know. OTHER things being equal, my ability to measure up to the responsibility of being a real mate is determined largely by the condition of my health. To build up and preserve one's health is a duty that every person should accept as being basic to happiness. To give a reasonable amount of attention to the care and protection of health is one of the earmarks of an intelligent person. The true husband or the true wife is never a better friend and helpmate than when illness is in the home, or when any other crisis arises; however, prolonged illness in the home constitutes a powerful challenge to family unity. It is difficult to believe, but true, that a presumedly intelligent wife made the following remark while present at a midnight party: "I know if I eat another piece of cake I shall have a headache when I wake up in the morning, but what's the difference. If I am ill, dear old Dave will get up early enough to give the kiddies their breakfast and get them off to school. You know, I have the grandest husband in the whole world." Probably she will find out all too late that there is a limit to which even the grandest husband will tolerate being imposed upon. Lack of space prevents our giving similar cases in which the situation is reversed, the husband being guilty of selfish indulgences that result in the wife taking on double duties. A group of young husbands were discussing, in a more or less serious mood, the one characteristic each possessed that had seemed to make the strongest appeal to the woman whom he married. The most outstanding member of the group said: "The answer that Genevieve gave me when I asked her to marry me is my contribution to this discussion, and I should like to say that her answer has been the most powerful force in whatever success I have achieved. Naturally, when I proposed to her, I had to explain that I had nothing to offer her in addition to myself and my love. I half expected her to turn me down or at least suggest that we wait a few years until I had accumulated something in the line of worldly goods?but not Gene. I can see her now as she looked straight into my eyes and said, 'Ruddy, you are 646 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE all that I could ask my husband to be at twenty-two years of age. You have my love and my respect, and I have confidence and faith that you will make the most of your capacity to grow and develop into a man equally as fine as my father is. Now the important question is, do you have faith in me that I will develop along with you so that when we are sixty-five years old we can experience the same sort of companionship that Mother and Dad are enjoying now?" To grow is another responsibility I owe my mate?to keep up in development spiritually, intellectually, emotionally, and esthetically?so that I shall always hold first place in the life of my mate, in love and in interest. If we as mates are to realize fulfillment of personality we must have the opportunity to function as parents. Therefore, it is my responsibility to prepare myself for parenthood. The tendency is for physically sound parents to beget physically sound offspring. This stresses again the need for giving health first consideration. At the present time it is a reflection on the intelligence and wisdom of any parent who remains ignorant concerning child care and guidance, because this information is available to all without monetary cost. It is not sufficient to prepare myself mentally and physically; I am not worthy of the blessing of parenthood unless I am living an exemplary life so that my behavior may serve as a pattern for the behavior of my children. If I am a wife, it is my duty to so live that my husband can truthfully say, "T want my daughters to grow up to be like their mother." If I am a husband, I owe it to my mate to so live that my wife can say with pride to our sons, "Follow in the footsteps of your father, make his habits your habits." True, I must be the partner of my mate, but I must be so much more than that term implies: I must be husband or wife, sweetheart, mother or father of our children, and a pal. When we face failures, great or small, I shall look first for the cause within myself, and without self-pity and with ample courage I shall assume my part of the responsibility. I shall be liberal in my forgiveness, remembering always that true forgiveness requires a consistent willingness to help the forgiven one so that the same offense will not be repeated. As a mate, it is my responsibility to serve as a constant inspiration, fairest and severest critic, strongest and most dependable backer, and trusted confidante. I must complement my mate's weakness with my strength; I must be the co-pilot, and when the way becomes dark and we are lost in fog I shall suggest that we kneel together in prayer, and in the presence of my mate I shall speak frankly concerning our difficulties to our Heavenly Father, plead for light and guidance and for His spirit to be with us. If I am unselfish, if I know my mate, if I exercise wisdom in matters of health, if I keep up with my mate in growth, if I am a worthy parent, and if I have faith in God and have His spirit with me I need have no fear that I shall fail in my responsibility to my mate. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 647 Questions and Problems for Discussion 1. In your opinion which mate is more responsible for creating the atmosphere of the home? Give reasons and examples of cases that justify your answer. 2. Which mate should assume the "initiative in promoting active participation of the family group in each of the following fields of activity: Religion, social contacts, education, recreation, economics. 3. Mrs. Rice complains and nags at Mr. Rice because she says he has changed from being the most courteous and gallant fiance to the most discourteous and ungallant husband. What would you do if Mr. Rice were your husband? Suppose that it was Mrs. Rice who had changed in a similar manner, what would you do? 4. Mr. Lee owned and operated a grocery store in a small rural community. At the time of his death Mrs. Lee had no knowledge of her husband's business or of his financial condition. 'There were three children ranging in ages from nine years to sixteen years. At the time of marriage, Mrs. Lee had had one year of college training. In what way, if any, does this case represent failure on the part of each mate?