(To be continued)
Builders in Action By Bessie E. Redding (April Conference Address, Officers' Meeting)
THE Los Angeles Stake Relief Society made plans for their work just as soon as they were apprised of the fact that there would be a Membership Drive. As early as June they had perfected their plans and had their machinery put in motion. On the opening day in September, all the wards had unified programs constructed around the theme, "Building Latter-day Saint Womanhood." At these socials inspirational talks were given and the Membership Drive explained. There were so many fine features connected with these stimulating programs that it would not be possible to mention all of them. We feel, however, that they furnished a good start?a splendid impetus.
At an early date our membership department was organized. All wards sent representatives to Union meeting to get instructions from the stake coordinator. We made outlines for Union meetings from material found in the Handbook, from valuable suggestions in the Relief Society Magazine and by gathering here a little and there a little. Salient points beneficial for the Drive were emphasized.
There were five things especially featured as valuable for ward coordinators:
1. To keep a sense of humor.
2. To be tolerant of ignorance.
3. To be sympathetic and smiling.
4. To be enthusiastic and friendly.
5. To be well informed, gracious and humble?radiating the Gospel of Jesus Christ.
Naturally, we encountered some handicaps, but these were soon surmounted. During this period I think I am safe in saying that I became a very proficient saleslady for the Relief Society Handbook. With my mind's eye I now see page 180, and in fancy hear myself saying, "Turn to page 182."
We are happy to report that there has been no "let down" in our stake since we obtained our quota. The follow-up work is progressing splendidly. The wards are keeping a record of the attendance of all new members since September. The stake has offered a prize to the ward coordinator who scores the highest percentage of attendance of new members by the close of the season's work. There is harmony existing between the presidents and their ward coordinators.
We must be cognizant of the scope and magnitude of Relief Society, knowing that its power and strength are measured by the number of women it serves. Relief Society improves the standards of any community in which it is found. Relief Society improves the whole life of the individual, making her a distinctly outstanding personality and giving her more power for better service to humanity. Relief Society in building for permanency holds high her ensign of lofty ideals and elevated standards. It brings together thousands of women inspired with a desire for greater intellectual growth, for spiritual uplift, imbued with high moral purposes and full of the love of God and His children.