SHADES By Courtney Elizabeth Cottam
My neighbor Brown is stern and proud, And always airs her views aloud; She loathes the weak and erring way, "Right's easier than wrong," she'll say.
My neighbor Green is calm and mild, Her manners charming as a child; She props the weak and erring soul; "Not all are strong," she will extol.
My neighbor Brown is sure she's right, For black is black and white is white! My neighbor Green will smile and say, "Black mixed with white will make pearl-grey."
Beating Old Age
Is "getting old" an inevitable process which cannot be delayed? No, say modern scientists, whose research has shown that a good diet containing an abundance of milk and its products not only prolongs life itself, but also prolongs the prime of life? the period of healthy, enjoyable living. People who are before the American public frequently, and who must watch their diet to keep youthful, are daily users of fresh milk, because they have found that it contains the qualities necessary to keep them vigorous, youthful and healthy. What is there in milk that gives it such miraculous powers? Chiefly its calcium, say the scientists. This mineral is essential to health at all ages, and doctors are beginning to realize that many ailments commonly associated with old age are really due to a shortage of calcium and other minerals in the diet. Lack of vigor?brittle, easily fractured bones ?premature old age?often may be traced to a poor diet. The best diet is one which is based on milk and its products, says the National Dairy Council, and moreover it is the only diet which is rich in calcium. One pint of milk contains as much of this valuable mineral as 15 to 20 ordinary servings of fruits and vegetables. Build your diet around milk and other dairy products and you will be rewarded by more years of health and youthful vigor.
Cloverlea IRRADIATED VITAMIN D MILK
"L. D. S. TRAINING PAYS!" Start YOUR Business Career NOW
All the Year?Low Rates of Tuition. Ask for our 'Bulletin of Information." L. D. S. Business College 70 North Main St.?Salt Lake City, Utah
SAVE 10% ON A NEW GAS FURNACE Special Discount in Effect until November 1 Convenient Terms
Automatic Gas Heat need cost you no more than any other method. But how much more it gives you in ease and comfort! Take advantage of this special discount. Come in for complete information.
MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY Salt Lake?Ogden?Provo
As A Woman Eateth (Continued from page 614)
you'd have to fight is eating too much."
"Remember that story in Mutual," the Imp continued, "about the boy who had taken up bad habits after his brother was killed in a drunken wreck, hearing that brother's voice begging for just one puff of his cigarette? He woke up and quit. He didn't want to go through eternity craving tobacco. Do you want to be resurrected with seventy-five or more pounds of surplus fat cells craving food?"
"Maybe I won't be fat when I'm resurrected. Some one said in Sunday School that we'd look our very best, and people who are crippled and deformed may, through righteousness, receive perfected bodies then. If God can perform the miracle of resurrecting us at all, He can surely perfect our bodies as He does it."
"Christ was resurrected with the scars of His wounds. Why should He slenderize your body if you have willfully fattened it, when you know better? If they who are filthy shall be filthy still, why should not they who are fat be fat still? If you had defective glands, like poor Bertha,? but you only have defective will power."
"Oh, shut up! I have other things to think about."
May was at the big department store now, where she was to see the repair man about her electric ironer, and the Imp was hushed for a few moments. The repair man was out for an hour, so she went to the ready-to-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 653
wear department, where the Imp returned to his heckling again.
"Think you'd better try on a thirty-six like you used to?" he quizzed. "Even last year a thirty-six was too tight where you store your fat. And you've put seventeen pounds more between your waistline and your knees since then. Better try forties!"
She ignored his jibes and selected three thirty-eights that were marvelous bargains. The saleslady looked dubious as May took them to try on, but said nothing. The first one would not pull down below the waist. The next was cut fuller in the skirt, but fitted so tightly every curve bulged. May did not try the third. How the Imp chortled as she took them back and selected forty-twos!
"Have another bar of candy!" he sneered. "Little bites of candy, tastes of this and that, make a slender lady grow so nice and fat! Get a forty-eight!"
The forty-twos were fine from the waist down, slightly large at the waist, too long in the skirt, and positively sloppy in the upper regions. But May would take in the sleeves, shorten the shoulders and skirt, and cut out the extra cloth under the arms. She loved that saleslady for her tact in not smiling. Her smitten vanity lulled, by thinking how nice she could make the dresses look, May went to see if the repair man had returned. He hadn't. Where could she rest her feet while she waited? The furniture department! She tried out this chair, watched a young couple choose rugs, moved to that davenport. Soon the feet were rested, but the man was not in yet. It was so hot! Wandering here and there, she discovered the breeze from the artificial cooling system and stopped. There was no chair in the path of the breeze, but she could stand a while for the sake of coolness. Directly in front of her was a bedroom vanity with a full length mirror. She was far enough back from it to get a good perspective of herself, and others were passing by to afford vivid comparisons. This dress, with its bias-cut skirt and its large print bouquets on a light turquoise background, was perfectly chosen to throw into full value every ounce that shouldn't have been there. Looking, she listened to the Imp now without a word of argument, but with a hot flame of anger burning within her heart. Anger against herself!
"Not drugs! Not glands! Just plain greediness! From the waist up and from the knees down, lovely; but from the waist to the hips! Aren't you a fine figger-of-a-woman! Don't you look young and slender? Not nicotine, nor alcohol, nor caffeine, nor tannin! Just food! Common, ordinary, delicious food! That is what has you whipped! When you get up from the table you feel as stuffy as you look. Greedy-gut!" he taunted inelegantly.
"Why don't you do something about it? Can't you?"
"I can!" May resolved. "I'll figure out how much I eat for an average meal and spread it over three meals. I won't talk about it, I'll just do it. I have as much self-control as a new convert! I'll get myself down to 130 pounds and stay there. I'll show you!"
The repair man came at last, and May finished her shopping and went home to set about showing her Imp. Five pounds a month she consumed off her own storage. When she felt her anger cooling, she sought a full-length mirror and stared at herself until it blazed hot again. It was a triumphant day when the scales finally stopped at 130. That stuffy feeling was gone. She felt young and energetic. Exercise didn't seem so formidable. So she toiled to harden the flabby remainder on her hips, twisted to tighten up the muscles about her waist, and practiced the windmill toe-touch for back and abdomen. A year later, she stood before the same mirror in the same department store wearing a new thirty-six dress which fitted a trifle more loosely than fashion decreed, and whispered to the Imp.
"Well, did I show you?"
And the Imp said, "You showed the world, lady! You licked the old appetite! And if you keep it licked, you'll be looking like this on the resurrection morn. So long! I'll be seein' you then!"
QUALITY FABRICS FOR BURIAL CLOTHING ZCMI specializes in fine quality materials for Temple Robes and for Burial Clothing of distinctive beauty. The final tribute to a loved one should be of supreme quality in every detail. You can rely on materials such as these to help make it so. Write Margot Manners at ZCMI for samples and prices of these fine quality materials.
ZCMI America's First Dept. Store
Our New, Convenient, Inexpensive ready-made Binder for keeping your Relief Society Magazines readily accessible with a minimum of trouble. These binders are durable, attractive, and so made that a whole year's issues can be conveniently kept, issue by issue, ready for immediate reference. And the price is only $1.00 per binder!
THE