Grace Abbott By George Gardner
"The golf links lie so near the mill That nearly every day The laboring children can look out And see the men at play." —Sarah Cleghorn.
STUDENTS of history are quite agreed that one of the greatest contributions of Christianity is the better life for women and children. The Master said that He came to this world that we might have life more abundantly. In the light of this truth, Grace Abbott has been one of America's foremost crusaders for Christianity and has rescued for women and children many of those things Christianity wishes for them. Women and children should know something of this great woman who has secured for them an increased part of the blessings of life and has shielded them from many of the hardships. No advancement in civilization stands more to America's credit than the improved condition of its women and children.
Miss Abbott's early education was secured in Grand Island, Nebraska. This was more than a school education in the common sense of the term. She secured an education in justice, for at that time her father took part in some of those early social movements that secured more of the benefits of modern progress for the common people. As a girl, she went to the little red school house; as a young lady, to Grand Island College and the University of Nebraska, and later she attended the University of Chicago. There, in the school of political science and law, she laid the foundation of a career which enabled her to protect the rights of innocent people.
While in Chicago, she was attracted to Hull House where she became acquainted with Jane Addams and Julia Lathrop and their great humanitarian work. Here Miss Abbott with her legal knowledge was largely responsible for the organization of the Immigrants' Protective League. This Organization was one of the first to protect immigrants from unscrupulous people. These she has described in her book, The Immigrant and the Community. Later she became Executive Secretary of the State Immigration Commission of Massachusetts and also of Illinois, where she continued to be a friend to strangers in a strange land. This Organization not only corrected many grave wrongs, but it did much to advance Americanization work.
Her training in Chicago, both at the University and at Hull House, was important in the life of Miss Abbott. Her scholastic training enabled her to work efficiently and effectively; her contact with Hull House stimulated those humanitarian traits that gave her the driving force and the spirit of a crusader. It was here that she first directed her efforts toward the problems of child health and child labor, the fields of her later greatest usefulness.
THERE are no subjects in all America on which public opinion has changed more than it has on the problems of child labor and child health, and Miss Abbott was a central figure in this educational campaign. This educational work required a tremendous amount of time, work, patience, wisdom, and cooperation; it required integrity and sacrifice of many of the personal things which give flavor and richness to life.
Through the efforts of Miss Abbott and her associates, the National Child Labor committee was formed in 1904. In 1909, President Roosevelt called the White House Conference and recommended the establishment of a Children's Bureau in the United States Government. This bureau was created in 1912 by an act of Congress and was authorized to investigate and report upon all matters pertaining to the welfare of children among all classes of our people. This was one of the first public agencies in all the world given the responsibility of supplying facts with reference to child life as a whole and is one of the most humanitarian movements since the beginning of the Christian era.
The Bureau disclosed facts at once to show that the death rate among children and mothers was disgracefully high. It called attention to the seamy side of efficiency in business that led to the use of women and children as though they were machines. Miss Abbott saw the tremendous cost of that type of efficiency and knew that none can escape the harmful effects of such treatment of women and children.
In 1917, Congress passed the Child Labor Law, and Miss Abbott was chosen director of the Child Labor Division of the United States Department of Labor. This was a position of great advantage, for it enabled her to see even more clearly the situation of children. She found associated almost everywhere poverty, child labor, illiteracy, illness, misunderstanding and delinquency. She saw that the cost of widowhood was being borne by little children. In 1920, more than a million children between the ages of ten and sixteen were being employed in the mills, in the factories and in the fields. She realized that this was a great waste of youth and a great cost to the nation in spiritual power. Her position placed her in close touch with the strong advocates of the Child Labor Law in the states. These persons she enlisted as her allies in an educational campaign for a better life for children, which has gone steadily on.
The declaration that the first and then the second Federal Child Labor Laws were unconstitutional must have been a severe blow to Grace Abbott. A lesser stateswoman would have given up the fight. Not so this great champion of childhood; with increased energy she struggled anew for a constitutional amendment. Though the Child Labor Law has not yet been ratified by all of the states, the work of Miss Abbott and her associates, for she did not work alone, has borne good fruits throughout the land, and women and children everywhere have reaped benefits. Many fine state laws have grown from the good seed sown in the campaign for the National Child Labor Law. Provisions for safeguarding the health of children, care for dependent and neglected children, increased recreation facilities, greater efficiency in prevention and correction of juvenile delinquency, increased school attendance, and other equally important things have grown from the crusade of Miss Abbott and her associates; they accomplished indirectly what they appeared to fail to do directly.
Regarding her work in the interest of children, Miss Abbott said of herself: "Sometimes when I get home at night in Washington, I feel as though I had been in a great traffic jam. The jam is moving toward the hill where Congress sits in judgment on all the administrative agencies of the Government. In the traffic jam are all kinds of vehicles moving up toward the Capitol, all kinds of conveyances, which I have not even the vocabulary to describe. But they all finally reach the hill, and they make a plea that is a very old plea. The Army says to Congress, 'Give, lest you perish,' and fear as a motive produces results on a scale which leaves the rest of us feeling very envious of the kind of eloquence the Army and Navy command....
"I stand on the sidewalk with a great deal of timidity watching it become more congested and more difficult, and then because the responsibility is mine and I must, I take a firm hold on the baby carriage and I wheel it into the traffic. There are some people who think it does not belong there at all; there are some people who wonder how I got there with it and what I am going to be able to do, and there are some who think that the baby carriage is the symbol of bolshevism instead of the home and the future of America....
"They call me impatient, perhaps I am. I've said again and again, the only time we can save the babies who are going to die this year is this year. If we wait until next, they will be dead. The future rests in the hands of the children of today. What we do for them now is going to determine not only the future of the United States but the future of the world."*
MISS ABBOTT was appointed chief of the Children's Bureau, United States Department of Labor, in 1921. In 1923, she served as unofficial observer for the United States on the advisory committee of the League of Nations on traffic in women and children. Just five times in the past half century has the National Conference of Social Work elected a woman as president. Miss Abbott was one of these; two others were Jane Addams and Julia Lathrop, her beloved associates. In 1931, a national poll chose Grace Abbott as one of America's twelve most distinguished women. In 1934, she resigned her position as chief of the Children's Bureau to become Professor of Public Welfare Administration in the School of Social Service at the University of Chicago, a position which she held until her death. June 19, 1939, saw the passing of a wise leader, a woman trained in handling social problems with foresight and balanced judgment. Her service in the field of public welfare, characterized by concentration upon the problems of children, entitle her to her position as one of America's most distinguished daughters.
*From Adventurous Americans, edited by Devere Allen and published by Farrar and Rinehart.
The Relief Society and the Welfare Plan By Ezra C. Knowlton
"She had an understanding with the years: For always in her eyes there was a light As though she kept a secret none might guess— Some confidence that Time had made her heart. So comely did she bear the weight of pain, With such serenity accept the joy, It seemed she had a mother love of life. And all the days were children at her breast."
The inauguration of the Church Welfare Plan by the General Church Authorities three years ago found the Relief Society ready and prepared to fulfill its very important part. Sustained by a background of nearly 100 years of continuous and illustrious history in the field of true Christian service, it stood ready to begin this new and important activity.
What a remarkable background of preparation it has had, which might be divided into four great epochs: First, its birth unto a people struggling for recognition and the right to organized existence in the world. Its early years were tested in the crucible of persecution, mobbings and drivings. Second, its coming into maturity during that eventful pioneer period when the people, though separated by kindly distance from human foes, were called upon to make almost superhuman sacrifices against nature's relentless forces. Third, its important years of preserving and upholding the high standards of womanhood during the period of the coming of economic security and comparative popularity accompanied by the disintegrating elements of spiritual and moral Tin inauguration of the Wel- —Scudder Middleton. Breakdown which always follow. Finally, our day, when it has been marshalled into the great and complex field of social service in the whirl of a confused economic world, where, in the midst of plenty, want, suffering, frustration, and discouragement stalk the land. From the beginning the Relief Society has been committed to a twophased mission, representing the loftiest heights of Christian idealism —a mission first of relief to the poor, the orphan, the sick and the needy; second, and of great importance, a mission of spiritual support and uplift to the discouraged, the wavering and the tempted. Never failing, never flinching, this great Organization of women has kept aloft its noble banners through the colorful vicissitudes of nearly one hundred eventful years. In the days that are ahead, as this great Church Welfare Program unfolds and vastly greater opportunities and like responsibilities appear, the women of the Church of our day should ever keep in mind the glory of that background and, sustained by its power and stimulation, meet the new challenge. In order to combat effectively the 604 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE complicated and serious economic and social conditions existing today, the Church Authorities called into the field of social service, or social welfare, all the great forces of the Church organization for an attack upon all fronts. Without a fundamental change in organic form, this undertaking has been launched with closely coordinated organization between the various Priesthood quorums, the man power of the Church, and the Relief Society, the woman power of the Church. This has extended from the head down through the stakes and wards. The Regional Unit IN order to group the stakes of the Church into units, in so far as possible, of economic self-sufficiency, Regions were created, the Salt Lake Region being typical. This Region comprises sixteen stakes located in Salt Lake, Davis, and Tooele Counties and contains 143 wards and branches and approximately 120,000 Church members. Presiding over this large unit is a Regional Council, consisting of stake representatives from each of the following groups: Stake Presidency Bishop's Council, Chairman of Relief Society Presidency Male and female Work Directors Agricultural Committee A Regional Co-ordinator acts as executive officer. For efficient correlation and stimulation of activity, monthly Regional meetings are held at which, after a short general session, intensive, well planned departmental sessions are conducted by the five groups above named. Important plans and programs, requiring time and special study, such as various agricultural, fruit and vegetable canning projects, group hospitalization, general housing and temple apartment-housing plans, the production of meat, dairy, poultry, cereal, soap, and wood products, and other project activities are assigned to quorum, ward, stake and Regional committees. Serving on these are men and women especially trained in each field to make thorough investigations and reports. The important policies and programs adopted by the Regional Council are carried by spoken word as well as by written proceedings back to stake and ward welfare units for placing into actual operation. Economic SELF-SUFFICIENCY IT is fundamental that in order to efficiently realize the objectives announced by the Presiding Authorities of furnishing life's vital necessities to the needy faithful members of the Church and employment to those otherwise unemployed but able to work that, up to the very limit of the natural resources of our land, we must produce within the Program those elements of food, clothing, fuel, and shelter which are needed. Projects are, and must continue to be, put into operation that will produce these things. "Program Produced Commodities" must be the slogan. The Program Produced Commodity index must be raised higher and higher in order to accomplish the twin vital aims of furnishing employment and achieving, as nearly as possible, economic selfsufficiency within the Program.