It is readily seen that in order to carry on a complete program as out- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 605 lined, in our present-day world of economic confusion and uncertainty, there must be brought into action all those elements of production, distribution and consumption of the necessities of life which characterize our complex social and industrial life. In order successfully to do this all the quorums and organizational power of the Priesthood of the Church must be called upon. THE MISSION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY WITHIN this complex social welfare program, the work, the mission, of the Relief Society is undiminished. It is enlarged in scope and effectiveness. Its work, intelligently co-ordinated with the Priesthood agencies of the Church, places in its hands new tools, new aids, new powers. It is responsible for searching out and investigating all cases of need and correlating this work with other existing agencies; for the preparation of carefully and intelligently considered family budgets adapted to each case at hand; for planning food and clothing projects 'as required; for the important mussion of teaching mothers in their homes thrift and the conservation of family resources, and the thousand other large and small things which make up the art of true Christian homemaking and which only a woman's hand and a woman's heart can accomplish. All these are just the temporal services to which must also be added the larger service, that of looking after the spiritual welfare of the women of Zion. And so the Relief Society, as a most important agency in the Welfare Plan, arm in arm with the Priesthood of the Church, will go on and on to greater destiny. "Some there be that sow the seed and reap the golden grain; And some there be that buy and sell, and find therein their gain; And some do build with skillful craft; and some with curious art Do paint or carve; and some do sing. So each doth do his part. And some there be—most blessed these— to deeds of mercy given; And some do heal the sick, and some do lead the way to heaven." —Sarah Louise Arnold. THE BURNING BUSH By Olive C. Welir God spoke to Moses In the burning bush long ago, And now each autumn I think each flaming bush aglow A memorial stands; And in it God's whisper low The waiting heart commands.