HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon
SEPTEMBER — Vacation over, one takes up the tools of labor with renewed vigor. "In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread" are the magic words to happiness.
RUTH ST. DENIS, famous interpretive dancer, is one of the "new renaissance" group working for an age of moral rearmament. "All the arts must be mobilized for the interpretation of the wisdom of God instead of the follies of men" is her message, urging with her group a return to the "age of faith".
CAROLYN WELLS takes up the challenge in her story "Crime Tears On". A shocked public might help in the crusade by stopping beauty contests; frequently, the first wayward step is when lovely maidens parade their beauty along the promenades of summer resorts and world fairs, with modesty thrown to the wind and vanity riding high.
MAUD MAY BABCOCK, correct speech expert, is now publishing a new book, "Public Speaking".
CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT, veteran feminist, in a recent impassioned broadcast urged women to maintain all the privileges gained after a century of struggle and to "Keep the banners of Women's Rights flying until every vestige of the old tradition ordering subjection has been chased from the earth".
CORDELIA THURSTON SMITH, 93, pioneer of 1847, died last July. She had written the story of her life so full of pioneer experiences that it will be a valuable contribution to Utah's history.
THOMAS GIBSON ANDRUS, 97, and Mary Park Brockbank, 96, the only survivors of Utah's 1847 pioneers at the time of the state celebration this year, received honored attentions.
LILY PONS, little French soprano, said she had the thrill of her life when she sang at Chicago's lake front this summer before a crowd of 200,000 people.
IRA BAILEY HARDING of Price, Utah, who died last summer, was a young woman of unusual musical ability who gave liberally of her talents to church and state.
CROWN PRINCESS JULIANA has a new daughter, born August. Feminine rule seems to be the order for the Netherlands.
ALICE MARBLE, America's champion tennis star, now towers over the game internationally, having won in all the finals at Wimbledon.
DR. D. E. BEEMAN of Los Angeles suggests less work for women to avoid varicose veins caused through standing too much. Lord Beaverbrook of London suggests conscription of women for more work, especially useless society women "who eat and drink too much".
 
Rosannah C. Irvine Emeline Y. Nebeker Nettie D. Bradford Janet M. Thompson Ida P. Beal Beatrice F. Stevens Marcia K. Howells Belle S. Spafford Jennie B. Knight Rae B. Barker Emma A. Empey Donna Durrant Sorensen Annie Wells Cannon Nellie O. Parker Lalene H. Hart Vivian R. McConkie Cora L. Bennion Anna S. Barlow Leda T. Jensen
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Belle S. Spafford Manager Louise Y. Robison Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman