Grand Lady By Elinor B. Allen MARTHA MEIKLE pushed her heavy body through the shoppers on Second Avenue, droning "Chronicle —-Evening Chronicle". Her strident voice cut through the street noises like a fog horn. "All about—'" What was that about the eye doctor now? She stopped short to read the story, the crowds veering sharply from her bulk to the right and the left. The wind tore at her straggling hair, flattening the graying curls against the scars on her cheek. Then her keen eyes softened into concern as she tried to span the two blocks that separated her from blind Johnny Carter. She plunged crossways through the traffic, not stopping till she stood by the rough box that held his papers. "Are you calling your headlines, like I said, or just mooning about that girl again?" she scolded, to hide her worry. Her hand rested on his shoulder for a moment. "And don't forget, you'll be having dinner with me tonight. It'll be mulligan stew and served hot, as it should be." Later in the evening, when the stew had been eaten and the pair of them were resting comfortably, Martha told her big news. "Tm going into the magazine business, Johnny," she said. "I've spoken for the Hole-in-the-Wall, that bit of a place down on Post Street, with the sliding windows. I'll have candy and gum, too. It's $800 I have in the savings, to begin with." "I’ve no doubt it will be a success," he answered heartily. "Martha," he asked suddenly, "what do you look like?" Martha's hand flew to cover the dark scar on her cheek. Even yet, she could not bear the memory of what that scar had cost her. A chilly evening, and two lovers sitting together. She had jumped up to prepare a bit of lunch and in her confusion had poured gasoline into an oil stove. There had been an explosion and wicked flames had licked her face and hands with disfiguring tongues. Never would she forget that the sweetheart who had loved her beauty so much had later been driven from her by the sight of the scars he could not look at. "Oh," she said, "I'm just a wind-roughened woman with the strength of a man." "But your eyes must have some "Eyes, 'blue like the flax' ''—the phrase came unbidden out of the past. "Hair, brown, and fuzzy sometimes," she humored him. "Too modest," he scolded. "I'll finish: Cheeks like roses, skin like flower petals, hands capable and kind." She closed her fingers to hide the scars. Why was it that men must always have beauty? "I would paint your picture if could." There was bleak longing in his tone. "Yes, and it would end up in being a cartoon, I judge." Her voice changed. "Talking about eyes, I was reading about some famous eye doctor right here in the city. Maybe he could help you. Johnny, you must ask him to try." But Johnny shook his head, his 610 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE face drawn with discouragement. "I did try, from one end of the land to the other, till my money was all gone. It's no use." "But this one might be different," pleaded Martha. ""And—and, what about that girl?" "She stopped caring long ago. We broke off entirely." "And what did you do that for?" demanded Martha indignantly. "Because it was the only thing to do. There's quite a difference' between being a successful artist and a —blind beggar," answered Johnny. Martha nodded. Scars for him, too. But all she said was, "So I suppose she married someone else and lived happily ever after, worse luck to her." "I don't know," dully. "She went traveling with her aunt. That was three years ago. Well, good night." He arose abruptly. "I don't know how I would fare if it were not for you, Martha." "Wait a minute, Johnny. I still think it was your fault about that girl. And you didn't answer me about the doctor." "It was not," he retorted, "and I'm through with doctors." "But I'm not," said Martha to the empty room. WHEN it came to doctors, there was only one Martha knew. She poured out her story to Dr. Davis as he bought his paper, and he scribbled something on a card for her, with an address. She lost no time in her search for the famous specialist, but it was after five when her solid feet took their way across the soft carpet of Dr. Tolman's office. She held Dr. Davis' card before her like a charm, but she hesitated as she saw Dr. Tolman talking to a very lovely girl. "The doctor's sweet on her," Martha decided. "And I don't blame him, though he seems a bit oldish for her." As the girl smiled and left the room, the doctor swung around, and the atmosphere grew icy as he tapped the desk with Martha's card. "Your errand?" he asked crisply. Martha gulped and told her story. He was utterly bored. Sorry, but his calendar was too full now. Her heart sank, but she must make one more effort. She planted her broad hands on the smooth desk. He saw the scars and winced. Immediately she folded them in her lap. "I didn't mean to do that," she said. "I hate them, too. They lost me a lover. And Johnny's eyes lost him his girl. I was hoping you'd help him. I know about your skill. And it wouldn't be charity. Will you, please?" He shook his head. Then Martha saw the girl beside him again, curious and interested. "T heard you. Why don't you see this man, Chandler? I know you could bring back his sight. And think, if you could give back that girl to him!" Martha held her breath while he considered her indulgently. "Well, we have to encounter a certain amount of this. At any rate, I'll make an examination. Bring the young man to the General Hospital at nine tomorrow morning." JOHNNY scoffed at the idea. "So his girl thinks he can bring back my sight, But did he promise RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 611 that?" he pinned her down. "How could anyone promise that?" Then she flared, "but you're going to be there tomorrow, if I have to call the police to get you up." Things happened so fast the next morning that Martha felt helpless. For the first time in her life. They bundled her into a small waiting room while the examination was being made. Then came the doctor's decision to operate immediately. Then more waiting, while she twisted her hands in an agony of suspense. Suppose the doctor failed! Then suddenly her spine prickled as she saw. Them wheeling Johnny, blanket-covered, back down the hall to histoom. What had happened in that small, ether-filled room? Utter, stark fear took possession of her. In the days that followed she hurtied from paper selling to the hospital and back again. Dr. Tolman was cheerful but promised nothing. Johnny was tense and silent under the growing strain. Once Martha blurted out nervously, "I know what—it's that girl. If we could find her." "Never mind about that girl," said Johnny peevishly. "If I see again, that will be time enough to look for her." Martha wiped her eyes with trembling hands. Why, oh why couldn't they know now whether or not he would have his sight again? "A miracle, a miracle," she whispered prayerfully. The doctor hurried in, and Martha moved back to make room for him. She noticed with pleasure that the girl she had seen in the office was with him. Maybe she could cheer Johnny up. "Either Dr. Tolman is highly pleased with what the examination shows, or else," thought Martha, "it's the girl." "Tomorrow they'll come off, Carter," he said. "Then we'll know for sure." As an afterthought, "I've brought you a visitor—Miss Kennedy." As the girl took Johnny's hand impulsively, Martha saw him quiver and straighten up in his chair. "I asked Dr. Tolman if I might come," her lovely voice was filled with friendliness. "He is so proud of this case that I believe he thinks as much of his own success as of what it will mean to you." Martha smiled at the doctor's pretended indifference. But what was the matter with Johnny? "What is your first name?" he was asking. "Nona—Nona Kennedy." She studied his bandaged features. A petrified silence followed, then a cry of amazement, "Johnny! Johnny! Blind! Oh, how long has it been this way?" A kind of bewildered glory spread over Martha's broad face. Johnny's girl, at last! Breathlessly she listened. "A year and a half, Nona, since I went into the dark completely.... I didn't want you to know." "Not know? Why?" she demanded. A warm flush was spreading over Johnny's face. "It wouldn't have been fair to hold you to a blind beggar," he said simply. "Everything I had went with my eyes—my work, my money, my future." Martha leaned forward tensely. "So that," said Nona, "was why you quarrelled with me!" 612 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "I thought your Aunt Laura would explain it to you. I — I couldn't hold you to a promise that would have made you miserable for life." His voice was low.
Nona laughed hysterically. "So that explains Aunt Laura's generosity. A whole year of travel—to make me forget! And when I came home you had disappeared completely; traveling, too, someone said—and never a letter."
"Traveling, yes, from one doctor to another, until there was no more money and no more hope, and so, no more traveling."
"I'm glad I've found you again," she clung to him. "Especially if I stay blind."
He pushed her away. "Do you know what I've been doing this winter, Nona? Selling papers on a street corner."
Her lips quivered. "But after this you won't. He is going to see again, isn't he, Dr. Tolman?"
HER voice and manner changed suddenly. There was a strange troubled look in her golden brown eyes. It was then that Martha saw how the doctor was staring at Nona, as if ready to burst. And at the same moment she saw the big diamond Nona was wearing on her left hand. Poor Johnny!
The doctor picked up his case. "Another twenty-four hours will tell the story," he said with reserve.
"You see, Nona," came Johnny's voice. "He promises nothing. But I would like to know—just in case... Are you engaged to someone else now?"
There was no answer. Martha came a step closer. She could see the doctor's hard eyes and Nona's flushing helplessness.
"Nona?" pleaded Johnny. Then, "Nona, Nona!" His voice rose frantically. "Are you there? Martha, has she gone?"
Suddenly Johnny sprang to his feet, jerking at the bandages. "I'll find out for myself," he shouted.
The doctor jumped toward him, pinning his arms down until the fit of rage subsided. "It's no use," babbled Johnny incoherently, "and you know it, Nona. That's why you don't speak."
Battle light raged in Martha's eyes, but before she could open her mouth, Nona said timidly, "Could I help you, Doctor?"
Dr. Tolman turned on her in fury. "Haven't you stirred up enough mischief already?" he rasped. "Do you know—or care—that if a strong light should strike his eyes, the vision might be destroyed entirely? After all I've done, then you must tear down my work like this! What about me? Nona, are you listening to me? What are you looking at?"
Nona was sitting on the window ledge, her head bent, studying something intently. For an instant she met the doctor's furious eyes, tiny barbs of anger darting from her own. Then she wet the tip of her finger in her mouth and began rubbing it slowly up and down the side of her leg.
"A run in my stocking," she said calmly. "I snagged it on this." Martha tiptoed closer. Nona drew the diamond ring off, slipped it into the doctor's hand, closing it firmly. "There. You keep it. I'm a little afraid of it."
Then, head up, she went to Johnny. "No, Johnny," she said clearly, "I'm not engaged to anyone, unless it might be you." Her hand was holding his, tightly.
Martha's face wrinkled into tenderness.
"Doctor," Johnny's voice thrilled strangely, "if it's only a matter of hours, would a small trial now hurt so much?"
"I would not advise it," Dr. Tolman began formally. Then his tone changed, "but I'm going to risk it. You might as well see the proposition you are letting yourself in for." He glared at Nona, "and I wish you happiness."
He darkened the room carefully, and as he lifted the lower edge of the gauze slowly, complete stillness fell. Johnny moved his head, searching, stopped.
"Nona," his voice broke, "you're beautiful!"
Martha let her breath go in a huge sigh of satisfaction.
"So may I be judged by my face. Triumph lit the doctor's face. He was suddenly generous. "A perfect success." He was replacing the bandages. Johnny stopped his hand.
"Martha?" he asked.
Like a flash, Martha turned her head. This was no time for scars.
The bandages descended. "It's going to be a side view, Martha, when I paint your portrait," said Johnny. "The profile of a grand lady!"
Martha scrambled toward the door in confusion. Dr. Tolman followed, laughing. By now, Nona's hands were back of Johnny's head, drawing him close. And as Martha took one backward look, she saw his arms go tightly about his girl, as he felt the radiance within her.
Out in the hall, Martha stopped for one dazed moment. "Glory be," she whispered in awed tones. "A profile portrait of me! And the way he said it, it's going to be good!"