Opportunities for Youth By Irvin S. Noall Supervisor of Industrial Arts and Occupational Education, Salt Lake City Public Schools THE question of "what one can use for money" begins early with children these days, but the question of what one can do to earn money and the larger question of what kind of a job to look for and where one can find that job are problems that worry parents and that become serious to youth about the time of high school graduation. It is becoming more difficult for youth to observe adults at work or to get miscellaneous job experience as a basis for the selection of a vocation. Also, the population has overtaken the undeveloped western domain, so that today the problem of surplus labor has become large. This creates another difficulty for youth; namely, that competition has become keen and only the best qualihed get jobs. The training of the new worker is now an important factor of cost, and the employer who sees the ultimate necessity of young people learning to work and who desires to help in the process is placed at a disadvantage by his competitor who takes the worker only after he has learned enough to become an asset. When children went to work at 14 or 15 years of age, often their earnings were only three or four dollars a weck. Today when they demand twentyfive cents or more an hour and still have to learn the business, they are definitely a liability. These problems of labor surplus, limited opportunities for work experience and observation, delayed employment, and demand for higher wages, have created a new situation which business and industry are not prepared to meet. Youth are becoming restless and discouraged, law enforcement agencies are much alarmed, and parents are justly concerned. The answer is not to be found in more police officers, nor does it lie in more recreation centers, though these are an aid. Society, collectively and individually, must recognize the new situation and meet it in an intelligent way. 'Two lines of approach are open to us. One consists of the study of human wants and abilities to consume and the adjustment of production and distribution machinery to meet demands. When this problem is properly solved, it will become a relatively simple matter to lengthen or shorten the working day to effect a balance between more goods, more work and _ less leisure on the one hand; or less goods, less work, and more leisure on the other hand. This problem is now before us, but will hardly be satisfactorily solved this side of the millennium. The other problem is that of guidance and training of youth to meet the new situation. The answer to neither problem is an end in itself, but each will be an aid and a supplement to the other. Both problems are being attacked, and progress is being made in both fields. The remainder of this article will be devoted to the present opportunities and accomplishments for the guidance and training of youth. It is understood that this phase of the problem is not concerned with unemploy- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 589 ment, as such, but that it does offer a partial solution to unemployability. The finding of the right vocation offers the first obstacle. Most people can learn to do a great many things reasonably well. The problem of which occupation to try raises three major questions. The first is the level of the job. Not all persons can reach the level of the professions. To attempt to do so means disappointment and sorrow for those not fitted. Also, it is a human waste when talented people content themselves to work at menial tasks. One's job should be stimulating and call for the best one can do. Social position and unwise ambition of parents for their children cause the most serious errors in the level of vocational selection. Examples of this sort may be found in most families and in every neighborhood. It is better both for the individual and for society for one to be a good blacksmith or farmer than a poor lawyer or doctor. The second error lies in the appraisal of special talents. It requires an exceptional voice and superior tone discrimination to be successful in music; if one Jacks manual dexterity it would be folly to attempt dentistry, the machinist trade, or dressmaking; the shy person will encounter difficulties in salesmanship. The third major error in vocational selection is to ignore opportunities for employment. During the past twenty years there has been a great increase in high school enrollment. The lack of work opportunities has led many to improve their time by attending colleges and universities. Often this is for culture and general education, but usually the student feels the need of a job and takes training for a profession before leaving. When less than eight per cent of our wage earners are now in the professions, it is obvious that the much larger per cent which goes to college cannot find opportunities in these fields. Similarly, since the advent of commercial aviation, every boy aspires to be an aviator, or at least an aviation mechanic. A study of this field will show that there is not employment opportunity for one class of twenty students a year in the entire state of Utah. 'Training too many in selected fields results either in the student's moving out of the state or in his giving up his field of training and shifting to some other occupation which may or may not utilize the preparation received. THE Vocational Center and Adult School in Salt Lake City are attempting to meet these difficulties by providing a counseling and training service. Hundreds of boys and gitls in their late teens wel early twenties have been helped to appraise their talents and abilities and to survey the employment opportunities in an effort to obtain occupational adjustment. The previous school record is carefully studied in an effort to find elements of strength and weakness. Any employment experience is investigated for possible clues. Then a series of aptitude and occupational tests are given to determine as nearly as possible learning aptitude, motor coordination, finger dexterity, spatial relations, color blindness, emotional adjustment, etc. The resulting profile helps to see the possibilities of 590 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the individual in relation to those of other people and is used as an aid in counseling the student in the interview which follows. The number to train in any occupation requires careful study. 'To train too few may deprive someone of a chance to work. To train too many not only results in unemployment but also in the demoralizing of wage rates. To better determine numbers and other aspects of training, an advisory committee is organized which consists of representatives of employers, employees, and the school. This committee studies available data from the United States Census, the state employment office, and from employer and employee experience in getting jobs or finding qualified help. When the annual labor turnover is known, the number needed is not difficult to figure. It would be an ideal situation if the needs of all occupations could be ascertained and training provided for every need. Where many workers are required, many classes could be established, and these could be located in several communities. Where very few are required it would be possible to provide only one class for a state, or perhaps one class for several states. Naturally, occupations where demand is greatest are selected for the establishment of local training opportunities. It is contemplated that for 1939-40, Salt Lake City will offer day trade or pre-employment classes for carpenters, cabinet makers, millwork, machinists, auto mechanics, electricians, printers, sheet metal workers, plumbers, body and fender workers, upholsterers, stenographers, bookkeepers, and salesmen for store and specialty work. These and various other classes will be offered also in evening school for those who already have work. Similar opportunities, in lesser variety, will be provided at the Utah State Agricultural College and the several Junior Colleges. In Salt Lake City, students who have been approved by the counselor and coordinator may enroll in suitable pre-apprentice classes where they are taught the fundamentals of theory and practice of the trade. The instructor is a practical tradesman selected for his superior character, personality, and standing in the trade. The training course is based upon a careful review of what the worker needs to know to get and hold a job. It is anticipated that all students will be placed at the end of one year of training, but it is also planned that those who are not ready and those who cannot work for want of labor demand may continue into the second year or until such time as they are ready and are needed. This flexibility, together with the various precautions implied in counseling and acceptance, gives high assurance of employment to all who enroll.
It is not possible to teach all of a trade or to develop a high degree of competence in a school room. Judgment and skill are acquired in subsequent apprenticeship and in further technical training in evening school. To assure placement and progress of the learner after employment, school coordinators maintain close contact with the trade, advising with employers, observing employees, checking on the shortcomings of previous training, and advising on possible improvements. This close coordination of school and work and close follow-up and counseling of the young worker after training are the secret of the fine cooperation being received in Salt Lake City and will be found indispensable in any successful training program.
It is anticipated that boys and girls who have made a wise selection of a vocation and who have received training and work experience as outlined above can and should equal the best American and European craftsmen. They will know the what, the how, and the why of things. They will have an open mind, a studious attitude, and a capacity to adjust to the rapid changes in employment. They will soon be the backbone of American industry.
SINCE the economic well-being of both individual and state is tied up in the occupational competence of the people, and since competitive industry will not carry the burden of training and cannot do it effectively, it is fitting and proper that at least initial job training, as well as the subsequent technical training which may be required, should be provided by the public training agency, namely the public school. The Federal Government made such a decision in the establishment of Agricultural and Mechanical colleges. In 1917 it began the policy of directly subsidizing vocational training on the high school level through the passage of the Smith-Hughes Act. This was expanded and enlarged in 1936 in the George-Dean Act. The State of Utah accepted these grants and made partial matching appropriations to further the work. It is still required that students contribute a share because of the limitations of tax funds. In Salt Lake City such fees for the day trade school, which operates five hours a day through the school year, is $30. The evening school fees are approximately seven cents per hour in addition to the cost of the supplies used.
That the public is responding to the opportunity is evidenced by enrollments. Many who attend trade classes move into the city or take room and board. Evening students drive to school from as far as forty miles and will not miss a session even though they have done heavy labor all day. A good trade school record is becoming the best recommendation for a job, and a good evening school record is the most effective recommendation for job promotion and security against depression unemployment.
The provision of opportunities for additional fields of training to meet the needs of youth and industry will wait upon public demand. If the people want and are willing to pay for more service, it is theirs for the asking. Their recourse will be demand upon local boards of education and the state legislature. We are beginning to learn that occupational training through the public schools, supported by taxation, is cheaper and better than can be had through private resources, and that counseling and training hold the key to the solution of one of the two great problems facing youth as they move into adult life and responsibility.