Of your Relief 636 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Society organization? Church? 3. Why is it unwise to retaliate when some one speaks ill of us? Of the 4. How may the habit of coarse or unrefined speech be overcome? 5. Read James, Chap. 3. Ae a tterature THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL _ Lesson 3 ? "Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc" THE details of the life of Joan ot Arc form a biography which is unique among the world's biographies in one respect: It is the only story of a human life which comes to us under oath, the only one which comes to us from the witness stand. The official records of the Great Trial of 1431, and of the Process of Rehabilitation of a quarter of a century later are still preserved in the National Archives of France, and they furnish with remarkable fulness the facts of her life. The history of no other life of that remote time is known with either the certainty or the comprehensiveness that attaches to hers," says our author. It is well to bear this in mind; otherwise we might be inclined to doubt the amazing, the startling and the unspeakably tragic life of Joan of Arc. BOOK II. TRIAL AND MARTYRDOM. Joan had often foretold that her mission would last but a year, and with the last chapter of Book JI that year was fast drawing toaclose. She begged to be allowed to go home: "Ah, if it might but please God to let me put off this steel raiment and go back to my father and my mother, and tend my sheep again with my sister and my brothers who would be so glad to see me!" She was forced against her will to remain to make marches and to fight. She fought English, Bur- - gundian and French conspiracy, and it was French treachery which betrayed her. Her "voices" had spoken to her of this time and warned her that she would be taken prisoner. She prayed that she might die before she was captured, for her enemies had threatened that they would burn her as a witch if they caught her. She fought on bravely, however, and did not allow her fear to overcome her courage. In March, 1430, she was captured by Jean de Luxembourg of the Burgundian forces, who hoped to get a large ransom for her. It might be supposed that the King and the people of France would have been glad to pay any sum for her safe return because of her marvelous service to her native land. But the King was weak and indolent, and his selfish advisors, who were jealous of Joan, counseled him not to ransom her. Therefore, he made no effort to save her, nor did he show at this time any interest in her fate. She was sold to the English for 1,600 francs. Book III goes very much into detail RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 637 in the recital of the year's imprisonment and the trials to which she was subjected. She was first brought before the Tribunal of the Bishop of Beauvis on the charge of being a witch and a heretic. This defenseless girl was not allowed even an advisor, while her judges were _ of the highest clerical authorities in the land, both English and French, including the Vicar of the Inquisition. Her case was reviewed by the University of Paris, which decided against her. Her last trial began in February and lasted until May, 1431. The author consistently stresses Joan's piety and great devotion to the church and her constant contact with the clergy, who could find no evil in her. In these trials, her judges, who were all churchmen, completely reversed the findings of all the others who had known her intimately and heard her even in the sacred confessional. Joan of Arc's Trial is one of the outstanding mistrials of history; injustice, inhumanity, intolerance and bigotry sat in the judgment seat. On the 30th of May 1431 Joan of Arc was burned at the stake in the market place of Rouen, with every detail of indignity and cruelty. She was just nineteen years old?one year given to saving France, one in barbarous imprisonment. HE Personal Recollection of Joan of Arc, purported to have been written in 1492, when DeConte, her secretary, was 82 years old, verify fully what was said of Mark Twain in relation to the book: "I was reared in the same village with her. I played with her every day when we were little children together, just as you play with your mates.... I fought at her side in the wars; to this day I carry in my mind, fine and clear, the picture of that dear little figure, with breast bent to the flying horses charging at the head of the armies of France, her hair streaming back, her silver mail plowing steadily deeper and deeper into the thick of the battle, sometimes nearly drowned from sight by tossing heads of horses, uplifted swords, arms, wind-blown. Plumes, and intercepting shields. I was with her to the end, and when the black day came whose accusing shadow will lie always upon the mitted French slaves of England who were her assassins, and upon France who stood idle and essayed no rescue; my hand was the last she touched in life. As the year and the decades drifted by, and the spectacle of the marvelous child's meteor flight across the war firmament of France and its extinction in the smoke-clouds of the stake receded deeper and deeper into the past and grew ever more strange, and wonderful, and divine, and pathetic, I came to comprehend and to recognize her at last for what she was, the most noble life that was ever born into this world?save only One." Joan's father died shortly after her martyrdom, but her mother and her brothers, Jean and Piere, lived to take part in the Process of Rehabilitation, which took place in 1456. Joan of Arc had crowned the King, and he had permitted her to be burned as a sorceress and heretic, without making an effort to save her. No nation could be proud of such a king, so he appealed to the Pope who appointed a commission of churchmen to examine the facts of 638 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE her life and award judgment. Her case from first to last was minutely retried, and everyone from her own family to the great generals of France was interviewed. In this process every stigma of heresy or sorcery was removed from her name, and those directly responsible for her death were punished. Her family was ennobled, and the effort to have Joan of Arc recognized by the Catholic Church continued for centuries; but it was not until February, 1903, that the formal proposal for canonization was entered. Pope Pius X gave her the title of Venerable in 1904. The decree of beatification was made in 1909, and she was canonized by Pope Benedict XV in 1920. Her name was added to the list of Saints. ADEN OF ARC has been a subject for the learned and the wise for centuries. They have tried to account for her achievements and explain the source of her power. She has been the theme of numberless literary efforts. 'The English essayist, DeQuincy, and the poet Southey wrote of her. One of the greatest works of Frederick Schiller, the eminent German author, is his Jungfrau von Orleans, a noble tribute from one of the world's greatest geniuses. In our own day we have Albert Biglow Paine and George Bernard Shaw who have been attracted by this most unique character in human history. The last biography of her to appear was in 1936. It is V. Sackville West's Saint Joan of Arc. It received the Literary Guild award and is considered by some critics to be the most accurate record of her life yet written. Joan of Arc's biography is a dramatic portrayal of the never-ending struggle between right and might. Her service to her country was not so much in the battles she won as in the fact that she challenged the manhood of France to action. Her power was the inspirational faith and belief in her own country and her own people and her ability to impart this to others. This is the genius of real leadership. In the words of the author: "With Joan of Arc love of country was more than a sentiment, it was a passion.. Love, mercy, charity, fortitude, war, peace, poetry, music?these may be symbolized as any shall prefer: by figures of either sex and of any age; but a slender girl in her first young bloom, with the martyr's crown upon her head, and in her hand the sword that severed her country's bonds?shall not this, and no other, stand for Patriotism through all the ages until time shall end?" Suggestions for Discussion 1. Do you think the book accomplishes what Albert Bigelow Paine says that it will do, "make you love Joan of Arc as Mark Twain loved her'? 2. Select some of the most dramatic episodes of the 'Trials and have them read, pointing out the inconsistencies. 3. Have someone briefly report on some of the other works on Joan of Arc?Schiller's Jungfrau, Paine's Maid in White Armor. 4. What is there in the life of Joan that is vital today? 5. Stress the spiritual guidance which was undoubtedly hers.