Social Service Lesson 3 How Does Propaganda Affect Me? I. HOW DOES PROPAGANDA DIFFER FROM EDUCATION? The method of science is to let facts lead where they will. The "method of propaganda, one method of creating public opinion, is to emphasize only one side of the question, to ignore or disparage all other ways of thinking, and to appeal more to emotion than to reason. Education is different from propaganda in that it is designed to disseminate knowledge and skills as well as to develop attitudes, whereas propaganda has to do only with affecting people's attitudes and feelings. If any information is given through propaganda it is for the purpose of changing attitudes. Education usually has no "ax to grind"; propaganda always has one. Education and propaganda are natural enemies; but some methods of education are similar to those of propaganda, because education is also interested in determining attitudes as well as in giving information. When the motive back of education becomes the same as that back of propaganda, the distinction between them vanishes, as is the case in the Russian school system today where only the facts which serve the present government are taught and the desired attitudes developed. Il. EVERYONE IS AFFECTED TO SOME EXTENT BY PROPAGANDA. Try as we will to resist propaganda, we are all vitally affected by it at times. The agencies of propaganda are particularly active during political campaigns and dutring war. Mobilization of public opinion by both sides during the World War was as important as furnishing armaments. Probably words are as important in war as bullets. Every defeat of the enemy and every victory of one's own side are widely publicized in order to build up the fighting morale of the armies as well as the moral courage of those back of the lines. Since the average person cannot learn the facts first hand during wars and political campaigns, he must rely largely upon the newspapers, radio, and public speakers for his information. These organs, to a greater or less extent, become dominated by the interested governments or parties during periods of crisis. Public opinion is, therefore, determined through these organs to suit the purposes of those in control. Only facts favorable to the parties in control of the publicity are circulated. The average person cannot fully escape these propaganda influences, because he cannot gather facts for himself concerning events occurring far away or concerning the inside workings of governments or political parties. Now, all we say here does not mean that propaganda works only to evil purposes. Strong public opinion is imperative in times of crisis, and public opinion cannot often be aroused to effectiveness without the use of propaganda. People must feel strongly about a great cause before they will lay down their lives for it. In time of war or threat of war, 640 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE public opinion is aroused by developing strong emotions toward the mother country and against the enemy. The propaganda at such a time is usually directed toward arousing three particularly strong emotions: Fear and hate of the enemy, hope of victory, and love of country. We should learn to detect efforts to arouse these emotions, and we should learn to see to what a great extent our thinking during critical times, such as the present, is influenced by our feelings rather than by our knowledge of the facts. We dislike to admit that we act more from feeling than from reason. Propagandists realize this fact and furnish us good "reasons" for feeling the way we do. Often they are not the real reasons, but they satisfy us and give us some justification when anyone attacks our attitude on a controversial question. The American people are immediately affected by the incidents of each day, whereas a generation ago news traveled so slowly that public opinion was not aroused by world happenings until weeks or months after their occurrence. The organs of public opinion which are used by modern propagandists are: (1) The radio, long wave systems for local broadcasts and short wave for distant influence, such as European broadcasts to South America; (2) the newspapers, which utilize the radio, telegraph and cablephoto; (3) moving pictures, particularly news reels; (4) the platform, in conjunction with the radio, so effectively used by politicians; (5) face-to-face gossip. Gossip becomes particularly important when the people learn that the other organs are being censored. Ill. WHAT ARE SOME OF THE TECHNIQUES USED IN PROPAGANDA? An understanding of the "tricks" of propaganda should help us better to resist its influence, or perhaps suggest some methods that can be legitimately used in a truly educational campaign. 1. An appeal is made to the emotions, first and foremost, by various methods. A good politician has his picture taken while holding children in his arms. He takes time to shake hands with the children who meet him at the platform. He will also take pains to speak respectfully of motherhood, virtue, fair play, patriotism and other emotionally colored ideals. Glittering generalities are used to appeal to the feelings rather than to the intellect. Such words as "liberty", "social justice", "national honor', and "'democracy"' are symbols which arouse strong feelings, but the meanings of which are vague enough to cover anything the person cares to think. These are simply descriptive words recalling certain kinds of experience, and they are used because they reduce the amount of thinking required to revive those experiences again. The feelings then spread to the speaker, and he leaves us with pleasant feelings toward him, although he may have left us scarcely any information. 2. Name Calling is another technique for arousing public opinion. Names become symbols for negative feelings just as the glittering generalities mentioned before symbolize pleasant emotions. Thus, we call anyone who is un-American a "red", "communist", or "Fascist". These names are symbols for certain feelings already organized within us A RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 641 recent careful study revealed that most Americans react to these names with strong feelings of rejection. When Mr. Hugo Black was being discussed in Congress, before his appointment to the Supreme Court had been approved, his enemies waged an unsuccessful propaganda war against him. A newspaper reporter dug up the fact that he had once held a membership card in the Ku Klux Klan, which influenced some people against him. As another example, the fact that Al Smith was a Catholic was used against him by all who were prejudiced against Catholics. Propagandists use these words freely in their campaigns, knowing that people will not stop to think what they mean but will permit the words to uncritically arouse prejudices which spread to the person in question. Other words widely used because of their power to arouse prejudices are: ''Alien", "foreigner", "Bolshevik", and "anarchist". 3. Misrepresentation is one of the most vicious techniques used in propaganda. The promoters of a propaganda campaign may believe so sincerely in the rightness of their cause that they consider any method, foul or fair, of promoting the cause to be justified. This method is calculated to prevent the opposition from finding the true facts. Atrocity stories are manufactured in war time to inflame public opinion, and, of course, there is no way the average person can verify these stories. Outright deception of one nation by another is not uncommon in time of crisis. 'Thus, Italy pledged not to intervene in the recent Spanish war, which pledge was intended to placate British public opinion; but the Spanish rebels were given almost continual assistance, in spite of denials and repeated pledges. This has all become very clear since the close of the war, and Mussolini publicly boasts of his successful campaign in Spain. 4. Exaggeration of half-truths is a common propaganda technique. In a political campaign, some minor flaw in the arguments of the opposition is picked out and magnified into something basic. It is built into a "straw man" which can easily be knocked down, and the enemy be made to appear defeated; whereas, frequently the point so magnified is of no real importance. The psychological principle underlying the technique of exaggeration is the fact that people tend to generalize our feelings toward a person or doctrine and to wholly accept or wholly reject on the basis of a few points of judgment?not by a careful examination of all aspects. 5. The illusion of universality is the tendency most people have to think that what nearly everybody does must be right. The impression that "everybody's doing it" leads us to accept many courses of action without stopping to ask the question as to whether "everybody" knows what he is doing. Parades, mass meetings, Army and Navy games, popular petitions, and censuses of public opinion give us the impression that "everybody" is on the move and that if we do not fall in line we might lose out on something. We should remember that these impressions are carefully planned by organized groups behind the scenes and that they may not represent the 642 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE spontaneous action of most of the people at all. The source of these mass demonstrations is: sometimes concealed, and the motives are almost always somewhat obscure to the masses. "Spontaneous" applause and "boos" in political audiences are often planned by political organizers to start mass acceptance or rejection without critical examination of the issues involved. If the source of these outbursts were known, of course, they would have little effect. The thoughtful reader will observe that in most of these propaganda techniques the basic psychological principle is the transferring of a feeling from one symbol or aspect of a situation to other parts only remotely related. Be on your guard against all devices which are likely to short-cut your thinking processes and which make you form attitudes without proper consideration of the facts. Beware of "catch words" and slogans. Guard against your class and race hatreds: There is where propaganda works most effectively because our thinking is so emotional on these issues. IV. ANTIDOTES FOR PROPAGANDA. 1. Broad education is the safest protection against propaganda. This means broad reading, training in accurate thinking, and acquaintance with many points of view. Very few Americans cast their vote as a result of informing themselves upon the issues of an election and logically deciding which is the best course to follow. Most voting is a response to the emotional appeals of the radio, newspapers, and community gossip. The same could be said of most opinions on international questions. There is a great need for more thorough general education of the masses of the people. Education alone can discount the effects of propaganda. In a democracy where all of the organs of public opinion are permitted to play upon the ignorance of the people without restriction, there is only one hope? 'democratic educational opportunities, which is also one of the great guarantees we have under our form of government. To be able to resist propaganda we must have habits of looking for emotional as contrasted with intellectual appeals. The demagogue knows the wants of the people better than he knows how properly to satisfy those wants. Platform promises are appealing to us because they are aimed at giving us the impression that our wants are to be satisfied. When our personal benefit is in question, it is almost impossible to think straight. We should not wonder, then, why we cannot see how unlikely it will be for all such promises to be kept. All of the economically unsound schemes for getting rich quickly, such as radical old age pension ($30 every Thursday") plans, touch upon a personal want so directly that clear thinking is very difficult. Many radical politicians ride to victory on the basis of this kind of demagoguery. Our national capital is full of various kinds of pressure groups attempting to get special benefits for interested groups who are looking to their personal welfare ahead of the national good. Until we can detect the difference between facts and wishes we cannot be free from propaganda. Education should bend every effort to train RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 643 the people in the art of straight thinking, as well as to furnish the information with which to fight propaganda. Problems For Discussion 1. Distinguish between propagan-, da and education. 2. Discuss the question as to whether all propaganda should be condemned. 3: Name and give examples of three "tricks" of propaganda.. Show how transfer of feeling is utilized by the propagandists. 5. Show what an important part propaganda plays in present-day international struggles. Give examples. References i. LaPiere, Richard T., Collective Behavior, New York: McGraw-Hill, &ducation fo 1938, pp. 265-303. A more technical reference, thorough and well documented. 2. Starch, D., et al, Controlling Human Behavior, New York: Macmillan, 1936, pp. 557-574. An excellent general source, up to date, semi-technical but elementary and readable. 3. Strong, E. K., Psychological Aspects of Business, New York: McGraw-Hill, 1938, pp. 265-286. Best single semi-technical reference, well documented. 4. Propaganda Analysis, a monthly letter to help the intelligent citizen detect and analyze propaganda. 132 Morningside Drive, New York, N. Y. Has some excellent brief articles on the techniques of propaganda and special analyses of methods and campaigns of the present time. Subscription $2 per annum.