The Shining Heart By Sibyl Spande Bowen
CHAPTER EIGHT
THE actions of Fred Nagle were becoming decidedly peculiar. He would stay away for days at a time, then burst suddenly upon the scene in clean slacks and sweater, aglow with a terrifically scrubbed look about him. Sometimes he came armed with a pound bag of candy, much to the amazement of Nell, who was well used to his thrifty habits. He would sit moodily in the big shabby kitchen of the gray house and stare at Nell as she moved about her work.
"Beauty and the poultry man," Rob murmured to himself as he left the Carey house one day in late summer. Fred was there. He had scarcely noticed Lathrop who had spent his time exchanging lively thrusts with Miss Brilliant. The invalid was feeling very much up to form now that she could push her way about the house in her wheel chair.
Rob was excited. In his pocket was a small package Miss Brill had just given him. In his mind were several things he intended to say very plainly to Ward Meacham, Sally Delavan's attorney. He wouldn't trust his precious find with Sally herself. He drove the twenty mile stretch to Seattle erratically, wondering just why he was doing this.
"If I could have stayed put in my steamer chair, like any other nervous-breakdownee!" he thought morosely, then chuckled. His "nerves" had gone, disappeared completely, the day he had forgotten to be concerned about them. "That's one thing I have to thank the Careys for," he told himself, then shut his mind to thought. That other thing he must forget. He had been mad to even think that Nell would look his way.
The Meacham office overlooked the Sound from wide windows in a high floor of the Smith Building. Old Ward must have plenty of fat fees to afford the thick soft rugs, the good paintings that made this large room so very pleasant to be in. That painting over the magazine table, for instance, the gray-blue marine! It was like Nell's picture, not a whit better.
From behind the door of the inner office came the hum of voices. The door opened and a woman came out, followed by the cadaverous Meacham.
Rob was on his feet. "How are you, Sally?" he said politely.
Miss Delavan looked at him coldly. She was lovely as a princess in her violet tweeds, with a silver fox fur framing the pale skin of her throat and face, her somber eyes shadowed by a smart black hat.
"We can settle that nonsense at once, Ward," she announced, and swept back into the office, followed by the two men.
"Where do I start?" Robert asked amiably. The sight of Sally in her expensive clothes selfishly rushing to secure her money against the vague threat he had suggested put spirit into Rob. He was ready to do battle.
"I've already told him that high tale you concocted about mother's taking the baby and putting her in some strange car," Sally said impatiently, "so we won't go into that."
"That's fine," Rob said, "and perhaps Mr. Meacham can tell us to whom the income from Frank's property has been paid all these years?"
"I can," Ward Meacham said, looking at Sally. "It has been paid to Sally since her mother's death. There was no Frances Delavan mentioned in Mrs. Delavan's will. Of course, if there is one, she would inherit her father's share."
"But there certainly was such a child," Rob said.
"Yes," said Sally, "and in spite of your silly accusations, Frances was sent to Martha."
ROB opened his little package. In it were several articles of baby clothing and two letters. One of these he handed to Mr. Meacham.
"This arrived yesterday from Los Angeles. Martha Lane has been dead five years. Nobody ever heard of a girl called Frances Delavan living with her."
Sally whispered fiercely, "You meddling, interfering?"
Ward Meacham's deep eyes came alive. "What on earth is this? Are you actually convinced there is such a child?that I've paid Frank's money out for these seventeen years when it should have gone to a daughter?"
"There is," Rob shouted, "and Sally's been spending her money. You'll tell everything, or I'll spread it all over every paper in the country."
Sally was dead white, but her face was calm. "There isn't anything to tell," she said stubbornly. "I was in New York at the time. When I got home the baby was gone. Mother was much too ill to be questioned, but I understood she had been sent to Martha. I never asked after her. I hated her," she cried, "that French girl's child."
"She is also Frank's child," Rob said sternly. "Look at these, Mr. Meacham, look at these clothes. All of them new, cheap, untraceable. All," he paused dramatically, "but this little shirt. Aunt Sarah forgot about this."
He held them out, a little yellowed baby shirt smelling of camphor balls, and also the other clothes. He pointed out a laundry mark on the shirt, distinct and clear.
"FXDQ," he read, "Francis X. Delavan, Queen Anne Hill, is what it means. The Palace Laundry did Aunt Sarah's wash with that mark on it for years."
Ward Meacham took the little shirt in his hands. He turned it over, studying it; his green eyes narrowed, but he said nothing. Strangely, Sally relaxed. A smile enlivened her face.
"I recall," she said negligently, "that as Frances grew out of her things, mother had them sent to the charity maternity hospital. There must be dozens of things about with that mark on them."
Sally was slipping out of his hands, quite gracefully. Furiously, Rob knew this, and there wasn't a thing he could do about it. Ward Meacham tapped his desk thoughtfully.
"That's right, Sally," he said, but his face had a curious look, as though he looked on at a robbery he was powerless to prevent.
"Would a court admit the shirt as evidence?" Rob demanded.
"Oh, surely, but it wouldn't prove anything," Ward said, "not even several pieces of clothing with the mark on them. You see, they've been scattered all over the country. And Sally's word that she was away, and the well-known mental collapse of Mrs. Delavan?crowned with the fact that Martha Lane is dead?I don't see that anything is to be gained by opening up the affair now, Lathrop? Do you?"
"Only," cried Rob angrily, "that I can produce Frances Delavan. Only that she is a dear sweet girl who ought to have the money her father left for her. Only that?"
"Only that Robby here has fallen in love with a pretty girl and thinks he can foist her off on us as the heiress to the Delavan fortune, which isn't so large as you might think," Sally taunted, and stood up. "Now I really must go. If it won't bore you to death, do let Rob tell you all the sad tale. I'm sure he'll dote on it. And you," she turned with something of fear to Rob, "better decide to forget this nonsense. I've had enough of it."
She slammed the door behind her perfumed person.
"WELL, young man," Ward Meacham sighed, "you can begin your story now."
So Robert told it, from start to finish, fact and fancy combined. How the striking resemblance of Nell Carey's hair to the special Delavan type of red hair had started him off, how Miss Brill's story and the baby clothes had rounded out the tale; even of Sally's hysterics at mention of the affair?all this he told.
Ward Meacham was silent for some time. "I guess that's Frank's girl, all right, but your proof won't stand up in court. Now if Sally wanted to find her?but she doesn't, and in a way, you can't blame her. Imagine the hue and cry in the papers! Then Sarah Delavan's failing mind at the end would be known, and that's been kept a secret from all but her closest friends. And finally, Sally has accustomed herself to a large income. She'd hate to give up a single penny of it."
"But think of it, man! A child disappears, goes completely. Doesn't the law want to know where?" the exasperated Rob cried.
"Not at all. Plenty of people disappear. Nobody's asked the law to help find Frances Delavan. And I'm convinced that Sally herself had nothing at all to do with it, and at the time she couldn't have recovered the child without screaming publicity. You know Sally would never do that?for a child she admits she resented."
The gaunt lawyer stood up and yawned. "If you find anything conclusive, Lathrop, let me know. I'll be glad to work with you if you find anything."
Rob gathered up his exhibits and went out moodily. He found his car and drove back to Pine Point without even stopping in to see his mother. The feeble sunshine that had lighted the landscape earlier was gone, and the sky was filled with the flying scud of black clouds. The wind was whipping the gray water of the Sound to a foam-flecked beach, and leaves of trees were showing white against the drive of the coming storm as Rob turned in at the Carey place.