9 _ No Excuse For. Thee, My Son"' By Donald G. Lyman.... "Now my son, I would that ye should repent and forsake your sins, and go no more after the lusts of your eyes, but cross yourself in all these things; for except ye do this ye can in no wise inherit the kingdom of God." wayward son Corianton. As there are many phases of Faith there are also many things to be said of Repentance. Some people have been lead to believe that they may transgress almost any law, then repent and find themselves on the same spot on the path of eternal progression as though they had not transgressed; some may even feel that they will be ahead, having indulged in some of the so-called broadening experiences of life, which in the stricter sense come under the head of transgressions. +s was Alma's counsel to his There are some young men and women with good church backgrounds, some who have even had the opportunity to fill missions, who take the attitude that this life is one of experience and that to know good and evil they must experience everything possible and then choose the good and build an upright character on the foundation of actual experiences. 'This attitude is wrong; it is one of defense and excuse. The person, though knowing better. Is seeking to rationalize and to justify his conduct and his inability to live up to the laws of the Gospel. Brigham Young said: "Tradition has taught us that the great purpose of religion is to prepare people to die; that when they have passed through a change of heart and become converted, they are ready for glory at any moment, and to dwell with the Father and the Son in the heavens to all eternity. This is a mistake; for they have to improve, become substantially changed from bad to good, from sin to holiness, here or somewhere else, before they are prepared for the society they anticipate enjoying." (Journal of Discourses.) The road of Sin is downward in every sense; there is nothing uplifting in any of its ramifications. The path of Righteousness is continually upward and elevating. If the downward road is taken for ever so short an interval, one finds himself at a lower level, and steps must be retraced before one can arrive at the point where he departed from the path of Righteousness. N the 82nd section of the Doctrine and Covenants the Lord reveals that, "Unto that soul that sinneth shall the former sins return."