584 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE This presents another light on the idea of conducting ourselves contrary to the revealed word of the Lord in an attempt to get experience. In the same section He says, "For unto whom much is given, much is required; and he who sins against the greater light shall receive the greater condemnation." Another element that should not be overlooked is that the effect of sin and wrongdoing is never (in this life at any rate) left completely behind, even though the Lord has promised us that under certain conditions He will remember our sins no more. Alma could never forget that "he had gone around with the sons of Mosiah seeking to destroy the church of God". The Lord had sent an angel to cause a right-about turn in Alma's life, and his services from that time on were acceptable in the sight of the Lord, but Alma carried always the regret that he had sought to destroy the churcli of God. Paul, great missionary that he was, could never forget his part in the persecution of the saints. So let us not deceive ourselves. We can never leave the effects of our wrongdoing entirely behind. OLIVER COWDERY wrote nearly every word of the Book of Mormon as it fell from the lips of the Prophet Joseph Smith. He received the Aaronic Priesthood with Joseph at the hands of John the Baptist; he was the first to be baptized in this dispensation; he received with Joseph under the hands of Peter, James and John the Melchizedek Priesthood; he was one of the three witnesses to whom an angel presented the plates of the Book of Mormon, and he heard the voice of God concerning them. He was called of God to be the first preacher and first Elder in the Church. However, with all this background and rich experience, Oliver Cowdery was excommunicated from the Church because several _ serious charges against him were sustained. Some ten years afterward at a special conference held at Kanesville, Iowa, October 21, 1848, presided over by Orson Hyde, Oliver Cowdery said, "Friends and brethren, my name is Cowdery, Oliver Cowdery. In the early history of this Church | stood identified with her and one in her councils. True it is that the gifts and callings of God are without repentance; not because I was better than the rest of mankind was I called, but to fulfill the purposes of God." Shortly afterward before the High Council he said, "Brethren, for a number of years I have been separated from you. I now desire to come back. I wish to come humbly and to be one in your midst. I seek no station. I only wish to be identified with you." Oliver said that the gifts and callings of God are without repentance. What is to become of our particular gifts and callings if we cast them aside or cover them up while we follow along a worldly path? Re pentance at the end of the road will not restore our gifts and callings, as they are without repentance. We shall have to retrace our steps to attain our former station, and we shall ever be conscious of a great loss of time and corresponding advancement that might have been ours.