As a Woman Eateth By Ellen Day
MAY dropped a penny in the slot, heard it tinkle like an impish laugh, and watched the wavering indicator until it stopped.
"Seventeen pounds in a year! You hit it exactly," the voice of the laughing Imp seemed to say in her ear. "Just as the magazine article said— a few extra calories each day not used for repairs or growth or energy, and you get seventeen pounds in a year!"
"I don't eat much!" May thought defensively.
"No?" queried the Imp. "Now think. Three meals every day. Fine. Remember Sunday afternoon when you sat alone reading? Remember that salad and cake left from dinner? And the candy bar? You stopped eating it as you read about the seventeen pounds—but you didn't stop long."
"I don't like good food to waste!"
"Oh, yeah? A couple of romping, growing, hungry children would surely have let it waste! And with them it wouldn't be three seconds in the mouth, three hours in the stomach, and forever on the hips!"
"Can I help it if I take after my father's people?"
"Can't you help it if you eat salads and cake and candy after dinner, and oranges and apples and milk after supper? Remember the Sunday School boy's talk on the Word of Wisdom about eating sparingly?"
"He twisted it! It's only meat the Word of Wisdom says to eat sparingly."
"So you want seventeen extra pounds a year!" the Imp jibed. "Your Patriarchal blessing says you'll live to a good old age. Won't it be nice to come up on the resurrection morning looking like Aunt Patty? Remember how she dripped over the edges of a chair when she sat down? And she was always sitting down. You're getting that way, too. Tired all the time, when your weight is on your feet!"
"Sarah told me after Relief Society that she'd never seen me look so well."
"Yes, and asked if you hadn't been putting on weight! She didn't mean well. That was just her tactful way of saying fat."
"Sunday night Eva raved about how slim I looked."
"Sure! In that black dress you made with lines of white all down the front. And why did she rave? Because you look slim so seldom! Do you want to wear nothing but black with long white lines forever? There's one way to look slim in any style or color!"
"But I can't exercise it off! Exercise makes me hungrier!"
"Bears don't exercise their fat off. Hibernate. Live on yours a while."
"Starve? Go on some crazy diet and ruin my health?"
"No. Go on, will power," the Imp advised. "Remember the girl's two-and-a-half-minute talk about people conquering the tobacco habit by faith and prayer and will power? A convert who has done that sat next to you in church. She conquered the nicotine habit. The only habit
(Continued on page 652)