Facts Speak
FOLLOWING is a copy of a letter reporting the results of tests for alcoholic content in beer made by two different brewing companies:
"Utah Women's Christian Temperance Union Hotel Utah Salt Lake City, Utah
Mesdames:
Complying with your request of recent date, I respectfully submit herewith Test Report No. 1 and No. 2, covering Chemical Analysis of two samples of Beer for Alcohol, as received at my laboratory, No. 35 State Capitol, Salt Lake City, Utah, from Mrs. D. W. Jenkins, President, on June 10, 1939, at 11:10 A. M., as follows:
TEST REPORT NO. 1
Sample marked: Beer, 3.2% Alcohol by Wt. Quantity: 12 fl. Oz. In original bottle
ANALYSIS
Alcohol: 3.57% by Volume 2.86% by Weight
One 12 oz. Bottle contains: 12.67 cc. 200 Proof Alcohol
TEST REPORT NO. 2
Sample marked: Beer, 3.2% Alcohol by Wt. Quantity: 12. Fl. Oz. In original bottle
ANALYSIS
Alcohol: 3.91% by Volume 3.13% by Weight
One 12 oz. Bottle contains: 13.89 cc. 200 Proof Alcohol
Respectfully, (Signed) M. Elmer Christensen, State Chemist."
Note: The names of the brewers have been omitted. Note: See illustration on next page.
The following excerpts indicate the effects of alcoholic beverages on individuals even when the alcoholic content is as low as that found in light wines and beers:
Vial, reproduced actual size, showing the amount of alcohol contained in a 12 oz. Bottle of beer.
MARCUS ACH. "Ach showed that perception, the faculty used in seeing and recognizing signals, was weakened by very moderate quantities of alcohol. Doses even of ten cubic centimeters, equivalent to the amount of alcohol in one large (ten ounce) glass of beer caused impairment of perception under some conditions. Twenty or thirty cubic centimeters caused distinct impairment."
WALTER R. MILES, in his book Alcohol and Human Efficiency, states that "Amounts of alcohol corresponding to that found in three-fourths to one pint of wine, or to about four eight-ounce glasses of 3.5% (by volume) beer, increased typewriting errors from 14 to 50%."
From a review of The Effect of Alcoholic Drinks, by Transeau: In the experiments of Dr. Miles the pursuit meter showed that ability to give close and steady attention was poorer by an average of 14% after alcohol was taken. Effect did not reach its worst stage for about one hour and a half.
BENEFICENT REPROBATE. "In the one-fifth of a second one of our subjects took to make up his mind, his car traveling at sixty miles an hour would traverse over eighteen feet; but when, after drinking forty-five cubic centimeters of alcohol, he took one-third of a second, the car would have covered over twenty-eight feet, or ten feet further. In a world where split seconds count, ten feet is frequently the wavering margin between life and death."