Good Taste in Home Decoration By I. A. Fisher SINCE the beginning of time, man has been the victim of his environment. His limited knowledge left him helpless against the overwhelming forces of his surroundings—forces over which he had no control. For his first shelter, man utilized caves formed by Nature or those made by wild animals. Later, bamboo, grass, or skins (whichever was easiest to obtain) served as his protection against his enemies. With man's gradually widening vision came the use of clay, cloth, and stone; following these came lumber, glass, and paint, bringing with them the first degree of individuality and the first semblance of civilization. But always limited materials, slow transportation, climatic and social conditions controlled him. If his social life was warlike, his home became a fort. When it was restricted to frontier isolation, his home became a storage and manufacturing center and, at times, a shelter for his livestock. With the advent of the industrial age, his home often became a crowded hovel in a near-by tenement. Within the last few years, man's emancipation has been phenomenal. Fast and inexpensive transportation has brought the products of all the world within his reach. Chemistry and science have provided innumerable new materials for him to choose from, as well as hundreds of wonderful conveniences for his enjoyment, so that today he stands ready to build alinost as he pleases, the only force controlling him being his own good or bad taste. For ten years following the World War, 1919-29, there was a comparatively fast growth of ideas and technique among the world's leading designers, particularly in America, Sweden, and Germany. Through experimentation and exchange of ideas and information, they developed an entirely different approach to designing. They were unanimously convinced that copied designs were inadequate for our times, since earlier designers not only. Lacked the technical knowledge, materials, and tools of today, but their creations were always the result of some personal like or fad, rather than that of applied fundamental rules of art. They definitely felt that almost all decorative objects then in use were in reality historic pieces that belonged in museums rather than in the homes they were in. So they began what will be, no doubt, the most beautiful and important period of design in history. This new modern designing was so drastically different that it was impossible to imagine it receiving general public approval. Since it would not mix with existing designs, and large scale changing being impossible, it received only mediocre acceptance. To make matters worse, many inexperienced, insufficiently trained designers flooded the market with poorly designed articles, which were accepted by most people as fads. And although designers, manufacturers, and distributors were wholeheartedly enthusiastic, sales were slow and tremendous losses were incurred. In their fevered attempt to find what the public wanted, period in- Simplicity, harmonious lines and balance are represented in the above picture. While most of us cannot build new homes or completely refurnish our present ones, this picture suggests the beauty that is achieved through unadornment and proper arrangement. The plain mirror above the fireplace, reflecting the opposite side of the room, gives an impression of spaciousness. Fluences were again resorted to, and we had another series of bad designs taken from the Directoire, Renaissance, early American, and Swedish periods. While these were modified and much better looking than their earlier appearances, and while they partially fit into the existing decorative schemes, they still were and are revolting to the artistic mind. MODERN design has such power and value that it will continue to grow. Each day new streamlining will be applied to modern living. A greater appreciation of art, beauty, and simplicity will grow until finally everyone will be frecd from these age-old atrocities. The basis of modern design is simplicity—in fact, it is the basis of almost everything we do. For years, men have preached that simplicity is the secret of all success in life, but only recently have they applied it in any degree to their daily life. One of the fundamental rules of modern design is that of Variety, achieved through contrast. The rectangle is more interesting than the square. The uneven sides of a rectangle produce contrast, while the even sides of the square give it a monotonous appearance. The probJem of variety in design is to obtain the proper balance: A house can be too tall or too squatty for its width, windows too large or too small for a room, colors too numerous for a pleasing effect, and so on to the very smallest detail. In planning a house, it is important that wall spaces are not broken with too many recesses, too few or too many small or even areas, wall niches, small windows. Fora simple illustration: If one wall is to be broken up into three areas, the center one for a fireplace or bookcase, it should take approximately so per cent of the space, with each side 608 - SEPTEMBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE space about 25 per cent. If it is to be broken into two areas, one should be 60-70 per cent and the other 30- 40 per cent, according to the spacing on the other three walls. Countless homes could be improved immensely by enlarging one window, filling in a window, wall niche, transoms over doors, or removing wall lighting fixtures so that proper contrast of wall spaces would result. The good taste or ability to determine the proper amount of contrast is inherent in most people. Those who do not have it can easily acquire it by a little observation and study. Multiplication of this rule of contrast gives "Variety", which is the relationship of groups and series of groups to each other. The second principle of design is Marmony of Line. Just as a rectangle is more interesting than a square, so a circle is more beautiful than a square. The lines of a square meet in direct opposition at the corners, while the circle flows in one continuous and harmonious sequence. It is this principle that accounts for the sweeping lines of modern streamlining, for the popularity of round mirrors, for cornerless modern furniture. In the function of these two factors of design—Variety and Harmony of Line—we encounter a third principle called Balance. Balance determines the relationship and proportion of mass to space and can be achieved in four ways. First and simplest is a symmetrical balance. This is the use of equal mass or masses on each side of the center. The second is an informal balance, achieved by two small masses balancing a large mass, such as a small window and door on one side balancing a large window on the other. Third is the balancing of a large light mass by a small heavy mass, such as a spot of bright color balancing a large pastel area. The fourth is offcenter balancing, or the moving of the fulcrum. 'This makes possible the balancing of a small light mass with a small heavy mass. For instance, the roof of a house may be equally important with the walls; but inside, the upper two thirds of a room is less important than the bottom third. Under this rule, three times as much mass can be crowded in on the lower third of a room because of the optical off-center. In approaching the problem of decorating a room, the total area, called "volume", should be considered in its relationship to the "mass" (furniture) and "space" (where there is no furniture). The different shapes that the mass takes are called "forms". Where form, mass, and space have the proper relationship to each other and to the volume, then a pleasing appearance results that conforms to the principles of art. Things to be avoided in planning a room are: A vacant appearance (too little mass), a crowded appearance (too much mass), a spotty or monotonous appearance caused by too many pieces the same size, too many horizontal lines, bad groupings of pieces too near the same size, or contrasted too much in size. If these problems are eliminated, then one has only to choose the forms, textures, and tone values to express his own taste or personality and to have a perfect modern home.