CY> (siting Seacher Department MESSAGES TO THE HOME No. 3 Befitting Speech "Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ."?Phil. 1:27. "Boys flying kites, haul in their white winged birds; You can't do that when you are flying words. "Thoughts unexpressed may sometimes fall back dead, But God himself can't kill them when they're said." ?Will Carleton. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, SEPTEMBER - 635 SPEECH is the verbal communication between man and man. It may be common and degrading; it may be commonplace; it may be lofty and sublime. It lays bare the contents of the mind, the desires of the heart, the inner urges, the pettiness or bigness of the human soul. When refined and seasoned with grace, it proclaims the lady or gentleman; when vulgar and profane, it indicates low taste and ill breeding. Speech is a power in every department of human relations. When the wrath and bitterness of the human heart are moulded into words and thrown with violence, speech has the power to break the spirit of a person, while words directed by love and understanding cause one to feel almost God-like in strength to overcome evil and in power to go forward. Conversation which becometh the gospel of Christ elminates all that is coarse or unrefined. Profanity, faultfinding, backbiting, gossip, slander, are unbefitting the Latter-day Saint. Our leaders, constantly caution us to guard our tongues. Brigham Young counseled, "Let not thy tongue give utterance to the evil that is in thine heart, but command thy tongue to be silent until good shall prevail." Francis M. Lyman considered decorous speech one of the important standards by which Latter-day Saints are expected to live. He advised them to "speak ill of no man, not even in a matter of truth, but rather excuse the faults charged against others, and upon proper occasion, speak all the good they know of everybody." Joseph F. Smith admonished, "Look for good in men; build up the good; sustain the good; 'and speak as little evil as you possibly can. It does no good to magnify evil, to publish evil, or to promulgate it by tongue or pen." In every one of us there are powerful drives or appetites, which motivate our behavior, color our judgment, and which insist upon being satisfied. We too often seek satisfaction through an unbridled tongue, not considering the destructiveness of such a course to both self and others. In dealing with an unbridled tongue we must recognize that our unrestrained verbal expressions are a form of emotional release. Behind them is usually found petty jealousies, wounded vanity, a sense of injustice, blocked behavior, or an inferiority complex. If our speech is to be as it becometh the gospel of Christ, we must be sure our fundamental attitudes are right. We must approach our relations with our fellowmen with a broad sense of right and wrong. We must focus our view, not upon that which is wrong and evil, but upon that which is right and good. We must practice the Master's doctrine of love. 'Then, cognizant of our own shortcomings, we must strive to live so that our own lives may bear the closest inspection. "The measure of a man is the size of a thing it takes to make him say a mean or little thing." Discussion 1. Analyze your own attitudes. Discover which ones prompt you to evil speech. 2. What would be the spirit of your home if speech were always befitting the Gospel?