June By Christie Lund June!?The month of the rose and the bride. The month of glorious moonlight nights; of whispered vows in rose-scented gardens; the month of romance and?love. It is strangely wonderful that, in spite of all the cruel satire about marriage, in spite of the large number of divorces being filed every day, Dan Cupid goes on his way, smilingly tinting the world with magnificent colors and filling it with poetry and music for the many young hearts that have given themselves into his keeping?just as they did a thousand years ago?just as they will a thousand years hence. For, no matter what changes, love remains changeless and unchanging. Strangely, gloriously wonderful! Thank God, that as long as there is life there will be love and young hearts that will beat high with its hope and promise. We can imagine Elizabeth Barrett coming out of the long darkness of her physical pain into the beauty of June and the love that had given her new life and hope and strength. We can understand her and Robert Browning's immortal love more clearly ?in June. It must have been in June that Edgar A. Poe and Virginia Clem dwelt in that mythical "Kingdom by the sea" and sealed their love that neither time nor poverty nor disease could ever destroy. It is indeed the month of the bride. And as we watch the young bride and groom as they stand on the threshold of this great, new adventure, under the glory of June skies and amid the glamour of romance, and we hope?hope against hope?that they may take with them far into the sacred portals they enter all the joy and hope that now are theirs. We hope that his eyes will ever shine with the same tenderness and that they will meet the same pride and trust in hers. It can be done if they will both give ALL into the building of love's shrine. Love demands all or nothing; it demands faith, hope, constancy and sacrifice. But no matter what the demands of love are it is certain that it gives back many times what it receives; its law was written in heaven and its dividends are joy, peace, security, health, beauty and a wealth that surpasses that of Croesus in the love that surges back a hundred-fold into one's own soul. Doctor Frank Crane said that love was not blind but was rather the only thing in the world that could really see. Love sees the beauty in its beloved that the unseeing world is forever blind to. It sees the tenderness and sympathy that are hidden 
 like rare gems from the eye of the careless observer. No, love is NOT blind, it IS the only thing that really sees. Poor is he who has never known the rapture nor the pain of that sweetest of all sweet stories, but rich is he who has not only known it but has kept it in his heart of hearts forever after. "To keep one sacred flame Through life unchilled, unmoved? To love in wintry age the same As first in youth we loved. To feel that we adore Even to fond excess That though the heart would break with more It could not live with less."