Choristers and Organists' Department (McCune School of Music) Mrs. Ida P. Beal, Member of General Board, Presiding and Conducting
Mrs. Beal extended a welcome and called the attention of the delegates to the fact that they have a special work to do. She felt that the success of any meeting depends in a large measure upon the musical program and that it is therefore important for choristers and organists to take their work seriously.
THE PROBLEM OF THE CHORISTER
Mrs. Lissie Thomas Edward, Relief Society Chorister
The first problem we have is the attendance. I think you will all bear me out that this is a very, very big problem in a choir. The choristers have no doubt observed a great lack of attendance, not from lack of interest on the part of the members, but because of other duties. For example, in our Relief Society choir, a number of our members are serving in various capacities?as ward presidents, block teachers, as officers in the Religion Class or Primary, besides being active members of the tabernacle choir. So they cannot possibly be very active in our choir. We had a membership of 110 when we started, but we now have an average attendance of about 60 or 80, and that, I think, is due to the reasons I have stated.
The second problem is the lack of being able to read music. We have experienced great difficulty in making the progress we desire in choir work through the inability of the members to read music, only a few being competent to assume the second soprano or the middle trio staff. They all want to sing the high part or the low, and you can readily understand that it is impossible to have a trio arrangement when we leave out the second soprano. That is a big problem. The sisters
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 319
seem to get offended if we ask them to sing second soprano. You older sisters can sing the second part better than the higher part, unless you have been soloists. If one does not know much about music, one ought to sing second soprano?it is much easier on the voice?but she must know something about sight-reading.
One of the greatest surprises that has come to us in the organists' department is the knowledge that choristers cannot always depend upon their organist as they should be able to do. This problem is utterly foreign to us as a choir, since we have the utmost loyalty shown us by our capable organist and her efficient assistant. No chorister can succeed without the fullest cooperation of an efficient organist. The organist ought always to be there; and if she cannot, she should have a capable assistant.
I have been asked to make reference to the ten-minute practice assumed by some of the wards to improve their knowledge of the L. D. S. Hymns. This is a splendid idea and a step in the right direction. However, it would be much better if the time could be extended to fifteen minutes.
THE PROBLEM OF THE ORGANIST
Miss Edna Coray, Relief Society Organist
In considering the problems of a Church organist, I begin with the organ. This is her tool, and its condition, however well equipped she is with musical talent and training, largely governs the quality of her work. As she is expected to give her best to her part of the service, she deserves an instrument without tonal or mechanical defects. Having this, her next concern is how to make the best use of it. Piano study and practice alone cannot prepare her for playing the organ; for the two instruments are very different in touch and mechanism. The organ, like each orchestral instrument, possesses characteristics which must be learned with the guidance of a teacher. The lack of uniformity in stop arrangement and combination makes it necessary to study each organ itself.
Having a good chapel organ, and ample preparatory instruction, she has next to consider what to play. Her selections are, of course, governed by the character of the meeting, whether sacramental, funeral, auxiliary, or holiday. The organ prelude for Sunday meetings serves the dual purpose of quieting the assembly and creating a devotional atmosphere. This latter cannot be achieved through a sentimental nocturne or popular air, however slowly and softly it be played. Such music suggests a moonlight romance rather than spiritual elevation. A soul-thrilling melody, like Handel's "Largo," would perhaps catch the attention of the audience sooner than would a piece composed mainly of chord progressions. Preludes for funerals may be either solemn marches as for the postlude, or sympathetic hymns for religious meditation. But for a holiday or "conjoint" meeting,


let the prelude be in bright, cheerful mood, though never undignified or spectacular. It may be said in passing that the cabinet organ's possibilities for concert solo work seem to be almost overlooked, yet we enjoy solos upon the concertina, the accordion, and even the little harmonica?all with power vastly inferior to those of our modest organ. And it is surprising what a deal of brilliant music is available and adaptable for the instrument if one but looks for it.
Congregational hymns should be introduced in a tempo somewhat faster than meant to be sung, being played in crisp, rather detached style, definitely marking the rhythm, and thereby leading the singers into the proper swing, but after they have set their pace, neither chorister nor organist need try to hurry them.
Choir accompaniments are subject to the wishes of the chorister, regardless of the organist's own ideas, for in a mutual relation somewhat like that of bishop and counselor, chorister and organist must work in harmony; and it is the place of the organist not to volunteer suggestions concerning the choice or the interpretation of choir music, but to play whatever and however directed.
Organ music for sacrament should always be sweet and devotional, though not including such pieces as "The Rosary" or various "Ave Maria's," which suggest forms and ideas contrary to our religious teaching.
The choice of a postlude depends upon the occasion. If the audience is to march out in regular order, a well defined march movement should be played, preferably one in military 4/4 time, but not a one-step, two-step, or operatic ballet suggestive of dance hall or theatre, as they may neutralize the spiritual influence of the preceding music. Ordinarily postludes need not be marches but may include many excellent pieces of triple rhythm. Their function seems mainly to cover the confusion of moving feet and social chat, though on holiday or patriotic occasions they can add a joyous, exultant finale to the preceding service.
I commend to you, dear fellow-organists, the advice of my beloved teacher, Professor Thomas Radcliffe, not long before he passed from earth: "If you regard your music as part of the worship of the Almighty, then the best you have is none too good for such service." With a good instrument, some musical talent, adequate preparation, and prayerful diligence, we all can render service inspiring to our fellow-beings and acceptable to our heavenly Father.
ATTITUDE OF CHORISTER AND ORGANIST TO THEIR WORK
Mrs. Rosannah C. Irvine, Member of General Board
Not being a musician, I perhaps might not be able to reach you with the same technique that a musician would. But I think, if you choristers and organists have the right attitude toward your work, the right ambition, the right spirit, the right energy, and the present day PEP, you can put over your work. It will be a success if you choristers and organists have the Spirit of your calling, which is to praise our heavenly Father and thank him with all your hearts through song.
VALUE OF THE CHORISTER AND ORGANIST TO THE ORGANIZATION
Elise B. Alder, Member of General Board
Herbert Witherspoon, President of the Chicago Musical


College, has said that about one-fourth of the population of the world can sing acceptably. That is a large percentage for us to take part and be of service. Good singing is to our meetings what salt is to food.
Let me bring before your minds two pictures. Let us suppose this is the Relief Society meeting room and that we are the members, waiting for meeting. It is seven minutes to two o'clock p. m. Down the hall we see coming from prayer meeting the president, her two counselors, the secretary and others. As they enter the room, we see a distressed look on the president's face, and we hear her say, "Sister Brown, see if you can find someone to play the organ. Sister Jones, please select some hymns." No one can be found who can play, and by the time they are ready to begin the meeting it is five minutes past two. They sing "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet," but get it pitched too high. Prayer is said, but inspiration is lacking. They sing again; roll is called, minutes read. No chorister present, hence no singing practice. The Literature Chairman has her lesson well prepared, but, try as she will, it is hard to interest her listeners. Meeting is dismissed. On the way home someone remarks, "What was the matter with our meeting today?"
The next picture will answer the question: Down the hall we see coming the president, counselors, and other officers, from their prayer meeting. As they near the door we see the organist hasten to the organ, nodding to the officers as she goes. At five minutes to two o'clock we hear sweet strains of music?not taken from some book she has picked up on entering the room, but music well thought out and prepared. At two o'clock the music is hushed. The president arises and in her hand she holds a slip of white paper, upon which are written the titles and pages of the songs to be sung. They sing "We Thank Thee, O God for a Prophet" with a real spirit, and it paves the way for the prayer. They sing again, roll is called, minutes read. The chorister and organist, well understanding their work, in unity conduct a most inspiring singing practice, and they are able to get all to sing and enjoy the practice. The Literature Chairman, inspired by the singing and being well prepared, gives a beautiful lesson on Eugene Field. At the end of the first part of the lesson she is able to say, "Our chorister has someone to sing one of our author's poems;" and a sweet singer sings "Little Boy Blue." They sing again and benediction is pronounced. As the sisters are walking home, we hear, "Oh, what a wonderful meeting." Why? I will leave that for you to answer.
When Hayden was praised for his wonderful oratorio?the Creation?he cried, "Not I, but the Power from above created that." And so you and I feel when we are blessed in our work. A certain chorister was heard to say, "What do I get out of all this but hard work?" My dear sisters, success in life is not measured by what we get but by what we give; yet the Lord is the
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 323
best paymaster in all creation, and he has said, "In as much as ye do it unto these, my brethren, ye do it unto me, for behold I will bless all those who labor in my vineyard with a mighty blessing." "There is a destiny that makes us brothers, None goes his way alone, All that we put into the lives of others, Comes back into our own."
PROFESSOR ANTHONY C. LUND Leader, Tabernacle Choir
My dear sisters: The Relief Society has never seemed to me an organization for the development of music, it has so many wonderful duties of mercy and charity to perform; however, I am sure that the Society in various places will show us high grade music, and I am sure we all agree that the women who constitute the Relief Society are really one of the greatest forces in the Church in every way, so that whatever they undertake they will accomplish.
Now, music must be fostered and promoted because of the appeal it makes. You were just reminded that neither the chorister nor the organist is remunerated for services, but that there is compensation in the good that is achieved, in that which is accomplished, and we must take care of the cultural aim, it seems to me, of all of our activities.
There was a time when the church at Rome would not allow a woman in the choir; they had boys and men and monks to take care of the singing in the churches; but there was a break-away, of course, in the Reformation; women gradually began to do something in the way of choir work and church singing, until now nearly everywhere it is far easier to get beautiful voices for church services from among the women than it is to get all male members. You are taking your place, and no more than your place when you excel in matters of culture.
I do not want to speak in a general way on music; I wish we might discuss together some of your problems. I understand that some of you aim to take ten minutes for practice in each meeting. Now I can tell you choristers and organists that if you have but 10 minutes, everything should be prepared in writing, and you should know every step you are going to take in order to make it count. You cannot get along very well with so little time unless it is wonderfully organized, every step made and taken without hesitation. You must know just what you are going to do. Choristers and organists should be united, and come to a common understanding or decision as to how the thing shall be done. They should arrange to have a little session first and know what they are going to unite upon.


It would be a good thing, if possible, for you to add to your practice a little exhilarating breathing exercise, and some little singing of scales. I have taught people year in and year out, and if you heard them sing and keep time you might think that they were expert; but when it comes right down to the point, many of them have gone along and done just as little of the fundamental work as possible, and they have reached a pretended grade, a pretended proficiency. I know this from experience. I remember once when a world-renowned doctor was giving us a talk, he said that one of his boys said to him one day, "Doctor, I think I will change and go to somebody else; I feel really conscience-stricken to be so much trouble to you. I need fundamentals and I shall go to a beginning teacher." The doctor said that in this world of ours there is really nothing else so important as fundamentals; that you have to get back to the root of things in every lesson, in order to achieve the progress that you desire to make. Every achievement goes back to fundamentals. I am sure, from long experience in teaching, that as teachers we are never so much enjoyed, and never so profitable to our students, as when we get right down to fundamentals and accomplish something. And if you can make your fellow singers whom you teach in Relief Society, believe that they have gained a single point, if you can prove to them that they have learned something definite, they are going to be there again.
In your practice, I suggest that you sing your song through and then come back and make your corrections, singing from end to end. This is much more encouraging than to work altogether on phrases or parts of the song. We should also pay strict attention to whatever marking is given at the beginning of the hymn. If we take something that is allegro, and render it a little bit slow, people might not know what was the matter with it and think it almost uncanny. The Lord gave us ears, which are divinely appointed to censor that which the voice does. The ear is natural without cultivation. Some can hear better than others, but all can hear that which is pleasing or displeasing, although they may not know definitely what it is that makes it so. I would advise you to learn very closely the marks of tempo. It is somewhat difficult when your pieces are allegro, to know just how fast they should be rendered. In the main?three-four time is always faster than four-four time. What is moderately fast for three-four time would be quite rapid for four-four time. So we have to understand these units of measure.
The best way to make a society feel rhythmical is to be rhythmical yourself, and to demand a certain movement, a certain motion, slow or fast, which will give interest and meaning to that which we are doing. I remember with very much pleasure that when I first came home from Europe I was organist for Mr. Sam Barratt; he had an uncanny recogni-
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 325
tion of rhythm and its value, and I enjoyed playing for him more than I have for anyone since that time. He would drill and drill the boys and girls of the 17th ward, and they remember it to this day, because they often speak to me of the good time they had in Brother Barratt's Sunday School choir. You have seen people with rhythm and others without rhythm, and you have tried to dance with some of the latter and found it difficult, I am sure.
I desire to stress to you the importance of beating time well. Mozart said that time is the most beautiful and the most difficult part of music. Now you have the rhythm of a piece of music, and it has given you wonderful pleasure, it has been inspirational and you have been lifted up, you have felt fine about it, just as you have felt when you read together at school, and there was a swing about the reading which made you enjoy it. Now do not feel that your music is in any way finished, in any sense prepared, until all come to a unity of the swing, and then you will really enjoy it.
Students of music should make a careful study of the metronome, which is a mechanical device for giving the minute measure; and you will find sometimes great discrepancies between what you think and what someone else thinks. Be careful to measure your time, as time is one of the most attractive factors of your work.
Music is wonderful. I don't know, but I cannot help but regard musicians as a little superior in some ways. We are all so poor, but it is well worth while, and we ought to be proud of our profession. The things of the industrial world will keep themselves alive; but if we desire the artistic in life, we must all make sacrifices in order to obtain it.
Do not get tired, if you please, of the old songs, the songs you have used and used. If they were art works when you began to use them, they remain art works all through time. Schumann said that the greatest sign of the artist was that he could always be enthusiastic about an art work, and more enthusiastic as he used it. That is the sign of the artist. Do not be afraid to use old songs; if they were once beautiful, they are always beautiful.