[Vol4 | April 1917 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 219 her family settled in Kirtland, Ohio, in 1835. She attended the dedication of the Kirtland Temple as a child with her parents in 1836. In 1842 she removed with her family to Nauvoo where they remained for ten years, witnessing the rapid growth of this city. She was present at the dedication of the Nauvoo Temple in 1846, and in 1852 she came to Utah. Mrs. Patten was personally acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith. She was the mother of ten children. Providence, Utah: In the death of Mrs. Elizabeth Matthews of Providence, Cache Co., Utah, we lose another of the sturdy pioneer women who played such an important part in the development of the great West. Mrs. Matthews was the daughter of a pioneer and was a pioneer herself, crossing the plains as a little girl with the handcart company and suffering with others, untold hardships. She was one of the early settlers of Cache Valley and understood from experience what it means to overcome the barren and stubborn soil of a new country. These hardships born of patience, courage and fortitude developed a strength of character which made Mrs. Matthews a leader among her associates, and because of her perennial smile, her sterling honesty, her unselfish devotion to friends and duty, she was beloved by all with whom she came in contact. Mesa, Arizona: Mrs. Rachel Noble of Mesa, Arizona, died very suddenly on January 20, 1917. She was 63 years of age and was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, where she was married to P3enjamin Noble. Thirty-two years ago with her husband she left Utah and was one of the pioneers of Arizona, settling in Mesa where she has resided continuously since that time. She was greatly beloved by all her acquaintances for her many admirable qualities. She was broad-minded and sympathetic and was especially devoted to the charitable and philanthropic work of the Relief Society. Mrs. Noble was the mother of a large family. One of her daughters, Mrs. Mamie Clark is, at the present time, President of the Mesa Stake Relief Society. Provo: Sister Agnes Strong Farrar passed from this life 22 Feb., 1917, at her home in Provo. Her youthful spirit, and the sweet contagion of her sympathetic nature endeared her to all, friends and strangers alike. She was a typical pioneer, walking across the plains and wading every river but one. She was the mother of eight children, eighteen grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. From 1870 she was a faithful R. S. Worker, especially gifted in song and choir leading. May her work go singing on its way through the eternities.