[Vol4 | April 1917 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

GUIDE LESSONS. 237 beauty as one looks through the openings in the bushes and sees (he sky beyond. Our effort should be to find stories that are true and wholesome, stories that carry sweet lessons of life, that give not only pleasure, but a spiritual viewpoint. Such stories may be true to fact like those of Nephi and Alma, of David and Moses, of the child Jesus and his cousin John. Also of Washington, of Lincoln, of our own Pioneers; or they may be only true to life and truth as those herein suggested, and many others that have been created for us. If they leave us nobler and better for having read them, if they make us love the good and beautiful and the true, they are surely worth while. We can hardly give ourselves and our children too much of such wholesome mental and spiritual food. Yet let Latter-day Saint mothers spend most of their story-telling time in relating the beautiful and inspiring stories from the Bible, the Book of Mormon, and the faith-promoting books of our Church. Other stories will do occasionally, but true stories are always the best and most desirable. LESSON OUTLINE. 1. In what three senses may a story be true? Explain. 2. What story, not true-to-fact but true-to-truth, has impressed you? Be ready to give some such good short story. 3. What was the chief purpose of the Savior in creating hi? wonderful parables? What truth has one of these brought strongly to your life? Relate a parable. 4. What fairy tale have you read that teaches some great lesson? 5. The following created stories are suggested as good examples of true and wholesome stories to supplement occasionally the sacred stories for the home library. It will be well to have one appointed to read one or more of them and give a brief sketch of the story: Moni the Great Boy (Spyri), Ginn & Company. Birds' Christmas Carol (Wiggin), Houghton, Mifflin Co. Little Women (Alcott), Little, Brown Co. King of Golden River. Pilgrim's The Other Progress. Wise man. 6. Give some good true-to-fact story about one of our pioneers or some other of the heroes of our country. 
 LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in May. FOOD FOB SCHOOL BOYS AND GIRLS. Care of the diet should not cease with the first few years of a child's life. The hoys and girls trooping off to school every morning have not progressed so very far along the path of physical development which extends through a period of nearly a quarter of a century. It is true that the years when the rate of growth is most rapid and the digestive tract most sensitive have passed, hut it is a grave mistake to relax the vigilant cave of the child's to food, he leaving the food selects him more or less to his own devices in regard Building materials of many kinds are needed, the most important elements being nitrogen, phosphorus, iron and calcium. Nitrogen is obtained exclusively from protein, a kind of foodstuff found in large amounts in milk, eggs, meat, fish, dried peas, beans, and lentils. Milk is rich in all kinds of building material but iron, and contains these substances for growth in the most readily used form. It should constitute the chief part of the diet throughout childhood, and in the later years of growth should still be freely supplied. Egg yolks are rich in iron which milk lacks, and also in nitrogen and phosphorus. Green vegetables, dried peas and beans, cereals especially from the whole grain are very valuable for their building materials and some of these foods should be included in every day's menu. The first consideration in the school child's program is his breakfast. He should never be permitted to go off without it as no reserve of fuel is carried in the tissues as we find in the case of adults. A grown man can go three or four days without food and no important tissue or organ will suffer harm, but a growing child needs his proper amount of food at proper intervals every day or he runs the risk of malnutrition. Too much emphasis cannot be put upon the importance of establishing a regular meal schedule. Irregularity is one of the commonest errors in child feeding. The precise form of this meal will depend somewhat upon the age of the child, for those from five to eight years of age it will consist of the following in the homes of the well-to-do: A mild fruit, as orange, baked apple, stewed prunes. A well cooked cereal (oatmeal and cornmeal having the preference)GUIDE LESSONS. 239. Wheat and, cream of wheat to give variety, a ready to cat cereal occasionally. All of these served with a liberal supply of milk but not with rich cream or sugar, will satisfy and not satiate the children. Some form of dry, hard bread. This helps to develop chewing habits and also to bring blood and exercise to the jaws and lay the foundation for strong teeth. Milk to drink, either whole or skimmed. A certain amount of native fat, butter and cream. For the older children there may be more variety in fruits, choosing the more mildly acid ones. To increase the amount of fuel, an egg or some meat may be added. The main changes in the meal will be in amount, not in kind. Dinners, served at noon rather than at night, for children from five to eight years will serve with little modification as luncheon or dinner for the older ones. It may consist of: 1. A soup, made with milk, a vegetable juice or pulp. 2. An egg, dropped or poached, made into an omelet, or scrambled, never fried. 3. A green vegetable. 4. Baked potatoes or boiled rice. 5. A very simple dessert, as junket, baked custard, blanc mange, rice, or other cereal pudding. Milk to drink. This may be omitted if a milk soup is served. When the noon meal cannot be taken at home the problem of a suitable school lunch must be met. If the lunch is carried from home the advantages of warm food in promoting easy digestion is lost and their minds are not so clear for the afternoon work. They are also more likely to bolt their food when not eating at a table with other people. Consequently special care needs to be taken that the foods are suitable in kind and amount and appetizing when the box is opened. Three or four foods are enough to provide at a time. 1. Sandwiches, which form the best staple, made of bread twenty-four hours old and filled with finely chopped boiled eggs; a nut paste; chopped dates or figs; for the older children, chopped meats, cheese, jellies, and jams. 2. Fruit, is appetizing and carries well. Not only fresh fruit but apple sauce, sliced peaches, pears. Tomatoes may take the place of other fruit when liked. 3. A sweet, baked custard, plain cookies, dates rolled in sugar. 4. Milk or fruit juice, if it can be carried. The evening meal should be simple for the younger children and not taken later than six o'clock. Bread and milk, milk toast, cereals with milk, or thick soup with bread, and stewed fruit accompanied by a plain cookie or sponge cake will make an adequate 
 meal. For the older children, the evening meal should be about as substantial as the noon meal including a small serving of meat and simple salad, fresh fruit or vegetable, preferably with French dressing. There should be plenty of bread and butter; a variety of breadstuff will increase the attractiveness of the modest menus of the period of growth. There may be changes in shape as in bread sticks and twists; of flavoring, as in sprinkling cinnamon and sugar on top of the loaf; or baking nuts, dates or raisins in it: and by the use of different kinds of flour. No fried food, pastries, tea or coffee, rich sauces and gravies, should be permitted. Always remember that only a free out-of-door life can tone up the system so as to enable it to dispose of food without harm. QUESTIONS. 1. What can you say about food for growing children? 2. When can children be permitted to eat meat? 3. What may be a wise breakfast menu for children under ten years of age? 4. What do your children eat for dinner? 5. What about school lunches? IN REMEMBRANCE. Salt Lake City. We are pained to record the death of Mrs. Laura Hyde Merrill is very active member of the Granite Stake Relief Society. Mrs. Merrill was the daughter of the late Alonzo E. and Annie Taylor Hyde, the latter serving for many years as First Counselor to our late beloved President, Bathsheba W. Smith. Mrs. Merrill was the grand-daughter of President John Taylor and also the grand-daughter of Apostle Orson Hyde Eighteen years ago she was married to Dr. Joseph F. Merrill, Director of the School of Mines of the University of Utah, and son of the late Apostle Mariner W. Merrill. Seven beautiful children have blessed this union. Mrs. Merrill was a woman of broad education and rare gifts and was always ready and willing to use her knowledge for the benefit of others. She has been an active worker in the Sunday School, Y. L. M. I. A., Relief Society, and in the Society of the Daughters of the Pioneers, serving the latter organization very able as President. She has also been interested in civic work and in organizations which have for their object, the betterment of mankind. Mrs. Merrill was optimistic and courageous throughout her long faith in illness to all and of her sweet resignation to God's will was a lesson associates. COLUMBIA GRAFONOLAS