[Vol4 | April 1917 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: April Entertainment Morag]

APRIL ENTERTAINMENT. 213 "I am a bride, not bride to be, And that I'm useful you'll agree. Of kitchen utensils I am made, From the ten-cent store, the highest grade. Behold my face, 'tis but a fake, But comes in fine for making cake. My hair you'll think an ugly crop, In fact 'tis only a nice dish mop. Last and not least, my draperies white For drying dishes will prove right; Therefore, as bride I come to you, I'll prove your faithful servant too." Other showers are, Spoon, Pin, Handkerchief, Basket, Hosiery, Cap, Bag, Pansy, Flower. Another idea for the shower party would be for each guest present to bring a potted plant, (pots of hyacinths, daffodils are cheap at this time). After spending a happy hour with music and floral games the plants could be delivered by the guests to the shut-ins of the neighborhoods or to the hospital wards. Missionary showers should be popular with us when books, handkerchiefs, bags, etc., might be given. For literary people, a Shakespeare evening may be arranged on April 23, which is the natal day of the great bard of Avon. The Easter time brings many social affairs, and lilies, rabbits and eggs are used for decorations. FOR THE HOME EVENING. The sixth of April is an important date in the history of the world. Many will be at conference, but for those who desire a program for home evening, the following is suggested: Hymn, "Far, Far Away on Judea's Plains." Reading of Section 20, Doctrine and Covenants. Story of the Birth of Christ (Luke 1. 2, 3). Important events which occurred in April. Coming of Spring Typical of The Resurrection. The Gospel Restored and the Organization of the Church of Christ, Preparatory to the Second Coming of Christ and the Great Resurrection. Hymn, "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." Remember and observe Arbor Day. Plant trees, shrubs and flowers, and don't forget to make one or two bird boxes. The Entertainment Editor will gladly help you with your programs, social affairs, if you will write her enclosing stamped addressed envelope. Address care Relief Society Magazine. Home Science Department. By Janette A. Hyde. PREPAREDNESS IN THE VEGETABLE GARDEN. Now, with war. food shortage, high prices and possible famine staring us in the face, let every Relief Society woman plant a vegetable garden and grow potatoes and onions in every available foot of ground. No danger but what all will be needed and used. Altogether now, one, two, three, dig! Dig early and late and all the spring. Aunt Em has been warning us about the times of famine  let us be prepared! With stormy March just ushered in, and the ground still covered with snow, and badly frozen, we may still be in order if we suggest preparations for this season's kitchen garden. Probably many of you already have your gardens laid out or planned on paper  at least this is what we have been coaxing our sisters to do for the last three years. We hope you have sent for reliable catalogues and seed books. They are free and contain a store of useful information. Just when the gardening should begin, depends upon the part of the country in which you live. The first step in gardening is to get the ground in proper condition. If it has been fertilized in the fall, the fertilizer should be turned under, and the ground thoroughly heavy work, spaded after and' raked. which, The boys the women will or be able should do this to plant the seeds, and when the time comes, transplant such slips as have been raised in the kitchen windows, or hot beds, outside. That women are capable of even making their own hot beds, was demonstrated to us at Shoshone Idaho by one of our sisters, who showed us a fine bed of lettuce, onions and radishes, produced under a glass frame in her back yard, during the early spring months, when it was impossible for vegetables to grow in the open ground. Now a word as to what to plant: Many of the most useful vegetables are neglected and forgotten in the selection of kitchen gardening. A few roots of English chives, okara, summer chard, Brussels sprouts, and Scotch kale, are little known, and yet are easy to grow, and these, with the usual varieties, furnish us a great many changes for salads, decorations, and table vegetables. There are the standard varieties, such as carrots, cabbage, corn, potatoes, tomatoes, onions, celery, peas, radishes, turnips, beets, etc. These should find a prominent place in every home HOME SCIEANCE DEPARTMENT. 215 garden. Do not confine yourselves to one or two kinds, because they bring a good price, but choose a variety, from the fact that a variety stands a better chance of not over-doing the market in any one or two kinds of food. Plan to raise more than you can use, thus creating a market, and supplying those who are not in a position to raise their own garden truck. Interest the boys and girls so that they will be anxious to become producers, helping them to earn enough to. begin a bank account and buy clothes and books to commence the winter's school. Call their attention to the price of potatoes and onions, this year, and by so doing, they may be induced to plant a few bushels in some of the vacant lots or pieces of ground in the cities and towns where they live, thereby doing good to themselves, and helping to clean up and beautify the city, creating an atmosphere of thrift and industry among their friends, besides starting a career of usefulness, which, after all, is the foundation of permanent manhood and strength. With all of our Relief Society mothers co-operating in this one movement, alone, we will be able to assist, in greatly reducing the high cost of vegetables which should form the greater portion of our family meal. For seed circular, ask the Utah Agricultural College to mail you No. 16, of 1916, which is very useful in helping you to determine the best kind of seeds. WATER CRESS, SALADS AND SANDWICHES. Nuts and Cress Salad. 1 tb. minced cress. 1 tb. minced nuts. 3 tb. creamed cheese. 4 tb. French dressing. Moisten to a paste with the French dressing and spread on thin slices of buttered bread. Cress with Lemon Juice. Cleanse thoroughly freshly picked cress leaves, put in cold place, or on the ice. When ready to serve, sprinkle with salt, lemon juice, a little paprika, and powdered sugar. Very delicious, served with chops, steak, or game. If the sprays are pulled apart, they make an excellent nest for birds' nest salad. Cheese and Cress Sandwiches. 1 cup mild cheese grated. }/2 cup cream: 4 tb: French dressing. 1 cup shredded cress leaves. 
 Whip cream to stiff froth, add cheese, season with salt and pepper, moisten cress with dressing, put all together, and spread on thinly buttered slices of bread. Crackers may be used instead of bread, which, sometimes, is mine convenient and really furnishes a very crisp sandwich. Tomato and Cress Salad: Select firm, ripe tomatoes, plunge into boiling hot water, and then into cold, skin off the outside, put on the ice until ready to use. Take a sharp knife and cut a thin slice from the end of each tomato, scoop out the inside, filling the cavity with minced cress, cover with fluffy French dressing, and serve on beds of cress. All ingredients should be thoroughly chilled. Cress is about the only product of food, the price of which has not been affected by the war. Those who live in the country, may go to the near-by streams and brooks, and gather, free of charge, this delicious cress, which furnishes us a foundation for many excellent salads, sandwiches, etc. Those who live in cities can purchase it on the markets at a very reasonable price, usually two bunches for five cents. It is a real tonic for the liver, and very appetizing when properly served. French Dressing. 3 tablespoons of weak vinegar or lemon juice. 2 tablespoons of sugar. 1 teaspoon of salt. 1 teaspoon of paprika (sweet red pepper) stirred well together. Add slowly 5 tablespoons of olive oil, and beat hard. 1 his can be mixed at the table  it is always offered in hotels for table mixing  and it also keeps in a cool place after mixing; beat hard before serving, if it has stood over. DEMONSTRATIONS.