The younger members of PIONEER INFLUENCE ON THE INDIANS the tribe no longer listened willingly to grandparents, and the older men and women, who because of their longer and more varied experience and consequent greater knowledge were the natural teachers and advisers. Disease struck down the Gosiute, as well as other tribes, and the aged of the camps sorrowed, not only for the dwindling in their numbers, but also that much of what was distinctively of the original Gosiute was passing away with the oldsters of the tribe. Scouts carried the word of the Pioneer camp, in the valley of the Great Salt Lake, to the good Ute Chief, Soweitte, who resided with his tribe in what is now Utah Valley. Always friendly to the whites, it is said that he did much to contro] the war-like young braves who would have driven the whites from their valleys. HE establishment of settlements in outlying regions brought the Latter-day Saint settlers into contact with these and other Indian tribes. In line with the spirit of mutual helpfulness that Brigham Young had exhibited with all Indians, in 1856 he urged that "the millions of acres of uncultivated land be given to the Indians for use, and that they be taught the peaceful avocation of the tiller of the soil, raising grain and stock for subsistence, instead of pursuing the uncertain chances of war and game for livelihood." He said, "Surround them with a peaceful and friendly influence and a humane and benevolent policy. 449 Thus will they be redeemed from their low estate, and advanced' in the scale of civilized and intellectual existence." In the summer and fall of 1874 there began a religious awakening among the Indians of the West that resulted in several thousand baptisms into the Latter-day Saint Church, and progress was made in the acquiring of industrial habits and the tendency towards civilized methods of life. Thus it would seem that those who have in the Book of Mormon the key to the origin and history of the American Indian, or Lamanite, who believe that they were at one time and shall again be a "white and delightsome people," have contributed toward their uplift, as well as toward improvement of relations between Indians and whites generally. OWEVER, the final chapter of the Indian story is not yet written. Through friendly 'contact, kindness, and missionary work, through examples of thrift and industry, the Pioneers exerted a powerful influence for good, but the process of civilization is slow and toilsome. The full responsibility is not discharged. That there shall be a day of blossoming for the Lamanite, there is no doubt, for in a revelation to Joseph Smith, Sidney Rigdon, Parley P. Pratt, and Leman Copley, given at Kirtland, Ohio, March 1831, Sec. 49, Verse 24, of the Doctrine and Covenants, it is recorded: "Before the great day of the Lord shall come... The Lamanites shall blossom as the rose." C xD David and Goliath By The Late Anthony W. Ivins NTIL the year 1869 the | | Grand Canyon of the Colorado was a place of mystery. It was well known to the Indians who occupied the country on the north and south rims, but no etfort was made by them to penetrate its depths. 'Lo them it was the adobe of evil spirits awaiting the opportunity to seize anyone who might venture within the shadows of its massive walls. It would draw them into the whirlpools of the Great River and bear them away to the home of departed spirits from which none return. The Colorado River was never approached by the Indians except at certain places where the country was open and the water could be reached without entering the recesses of the mysterious canyon. So far as I am aware the first Indians to cross the river were a party of Oribas who came to the settlements of southern Utah with Jacob Hamblin on his return from one of his visits to the Hopis. At this time he tried to persuade Tuba, the chief of the Oribas, with his wife to accompany him to the settlements. Tuba was not inclined to go. More than likely he feared crossing the canyon but after much persuasion he consented to make the journey. Upon arriving at Lee's Ferry on the Colorado Tuba said to Jacob, "I have worshiped the Great Spirit, the Father of us all, in the way that you believe to be right. Now I would like you to worship with me as the Hopis think is tight, before we cross the Great River." When Jacob assented Tuba took his medicine bag from under his shirt and taking from it a small portion of the sacred meal which it contained, asked Jacob to do likewise. Jacob extended his left hand, but the Indian said, "No, you must take it with your right hand." Tuba sprinkled a small portion of the meal on the ground, in the air, and on the surface of the river after which he knelt, with his face to the East, and prayed. He prayed that the Great Spirit, the Father of us all, would preserve the party while they crossed to the opposite shore. He told the Great Spirit that he and his wife had many relatives and friends at home and that if they were drowned and did not return, there would be much weeping and sorrow. He prayed for his friends, the "Mormons," that none of them might lose their lives while crossing. He prayed that the animals might be preserved because they were needed for the long journey. He prayed that the food might not be lost because there was no more to be had. And he prayed for the safety of the clothing which was needed to keep them warm. When the party was finally safely over the river, Tuba gave thanks that his prayer had been answered. "THINKING back upon the occasion of this prayer I am reminded of an incident of an earlier day. After the conquest of the Indians in New Mexico by the Spaniards who came up from the City of Mexico, an expedition was sent out to visit the Indians who lived in villages in the northeastern part of Arizona. DAVID AND GOLIATH Among other people they went to the Hopi Indians whose principal village was at Oriba. There was at that time in this village a very beautiful Indian girl, the daughter of a chief. When the commander of the detachment of Spanish troops saw the girl he claimed her as his. After the fashion of the old Spanish cavalier he challenged any man, whether he be of his own command, or an Indian, to defend her against his right. If anyone could defeat him in a duel he would relinquish his claim to the girl whom he had already seized. No one accepted the challenge. As the officer was about to start away with the Indian girl a boy stepped out from among his fellows and boldly challenged the right of the Spaniard to claim her. She was an Indian. She belonged to them and he would fight for her. Like Goliath of old the Spaniard laughed. He ridiculed the thought of fighting this stripling who appeared with no weapon but 451 the knife he carried in his hand. However, since the code of honor among his people required that he do battle, he dismounted and started toward the boy. The Indian boy stood erect until the Spaniard approached almost within sword's length, then with a quick movement he threw his knife with such precision and force that it penetrated the breast of the officer resulting in his death. The girl as promised was returned to her people and the soldiers rode quietly away. The name of this boy was Tuba. The same Tuba whose remarkable character is shown in the beautiful prayer which he uttered before crossing the Colorado with Jacob Hamblin, and the girl for whom he fought was the wife who bravely crossed with him the Great River. The story "David and Goliath" was loaned by Florence Ivins Hyde from a group of stories told to his children by the late Anthony W.