Ivins. The Indian and the Salmon Season By Dorothy Nell Mair HERE the turbulent waters \ \ of the mighty Columbia River fall with a thundering roar and dash menacingly against jagged rocks creating dangerous whirlpools and boiling rapids, come the Indians to the last of the oldtime fishing places, and perhaps the only one that has been preserved since the great Northwest country became the territory of the white man. From the reservations they come and camp in crude wooden shacks and tents on the southern bank of the river near the Celilo Falls—known to them as the Boiling Waters. Beginning early in May when the salmon begin to fight their way upstream, until the last of September, the Indians fish with spears and hand-fashioned nets. To many this is the "only source of income during the entire year. The fishing place at Celilo Falls, Oregon, has been restricted by the government and preserved for the Indians. No others may infringe upon this right. In the wooden shacks, the squaws keep house during the fishing season. Children in bright calico clothes play about the doorsteps and climb upon the jutting volcanic rock. Along the twisting pathways between these shacks one may come upon an Indian bath house. This is a concave structure of massed willows and just high enough to comfortably shelter anyone sitting within. These willows are but a frame work, over which skins are thrown to shut out the air. Stones are heated and dropped into a container of water, producing steam. The nude Indian sits within the bath house on skins, and stays there until he has perspired freely for a time. Then he finishes up with a plunge into the cold river water. DURING the salmon run, Celilo Falls belongs to the Indians. Today this fishing ground has taken on a semblance of the white man's business organization. There is a boss Indian to enforce rules, and each fisherman is assigned his own fishing place. He may use his long spear or his large net woven of stout string and fastened over a wooden hoop. <A long handle is attached permitting him to dip the net deeply into the foaming rapids. The wood used in making these nets is carefully chosen. One Indian told me he had traveled forty miles to find a tree that would suit his purpose. The fishing season is not one of sport. Salmon fishing is a business and means work and income for the Indians. The fishing is hazardous. The boiling waters have been known to conceal for all time some luckless brave who lost his footing. Each year the river claims its toll. Asa safety measure, wooden scaffolds are built, supporting platforms to stand upon. Each fisherman has his own. But the platforms become slippery with the spray, and a fighting salmon can give a good tussle when the footing is precarious. To lessen the hazard of slipping off into the merciless churning mass, each Indian has a rope fastened securely around his waist and anchored, not to the scaffolding, but to another rock or an iron stake driven into the ground. The rope is long enough and loose enough to give him free- THE INDIAN AND THE SALMON SEASON dom of movement. It provides a means of rescue when an accident occurs. The presence of danger adds to the thrill of the yearly battle between fish and Indian, with the boiling waters pitted against them both. GALMON are an active fish. They must have the turbulent waters in which to live and spawn. They must battle their way over rapids and jump against the mass of water to the top of the falls. There is no other way upstream. Long silver streaks, they are, leaping actively, the sun glistening on their shining slick bodies for a moment before they submerge again. Then the Indian dips his long net, and the salmon falls backward into it. Raising the net from the water, the Indian rests it on his platform for a moment. Picking up a heavy stick, resembling a policeman's club, he hits the salmon a blow on the head. That is all it needs—just one tap and another fish is recorded to ity they require to keep fit. 453 the Indian's credit and loaded into the cannery's truck. Hundreds of pounds of salmon are caught by each fisherman daily. He is paid by the pound. The average salmon weights from thirty-five to fifty pounds, and during the heavy salmon run, the Indians reap a good cash harvest. But apprehension has descended upon the Indians. The white man's great dam—the Bonneville Dam down stream—will kill their salmon, they say. The Great White Father has thought of that, too, and constructed "ladders" at either side of the dam''to permit the passage of the salmon upstream. These "ladders" built of cement, represent rapids and give the fish the a but," the Indian still shakes his head and says, "soon there will be great still waters, and the salmon cannot live in the still waters." It remains to be proved whether the Great White Father, or the Indian is right.