[Vol1 | July 1914 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Loyalty]

LOYALTY.
Perhaps the title "Fidelity," might be as appropriate as the one I have chosen, for the two subjects are both significant of the ideas I have in mind, in writing this article.
There are many beautiful instances of loyalty recorded of ancient times, as well as in the present day.
One of the most notable of the former is the exquisite Bible story of Ruth and  Naomi a story which has rung down the ages, without losing a particle of its charm.
So great was the fidelity of Euth, to her mother-in-law, that though entreated to leave her and return to her own people, she could not be persuaded and replied in those memorable words: "Intreat me not to leave thee, or to return from following after thee for whither thou goest, I will: go and where thou lodgest, I will lodge thy people shall be; : my people, and thy God my God.
Where thou diest, will I die, and there will I be buried the Lord do so to me, and more also. : if ought but death part thee and me." Ancient history gives us another remarkable instance of this attitude in the story of Damon and Pythias, which has been quoted the world over, as illustrating the strength of the loyalty and affection that united these two historic figures, in such undying friendship as to be an example to all suceeding generations. 2 .
A not less beautiful illustration is furnished in this our own day and time in the loyalty and love binding together the hearts and lives of our revered martyr leaders, Joseph and Hyrum Smith, who even in death were not separated.
Those of us who have lived long and passed through varied experiences, are well aware of what it means to have false friends; and none are better able to appreciate to the fullest extent, true and unswerving loyalty, especially among or between those who have interests in common and to whom every trust should be sacred, even without the formality of covenant or promise there is a loyalty in friendship, which is better; understood than expressed, and this is the kind that calls forth the highest admiration, especially when observed by those not bound together by common interests.
It is one of the most excellent qualities in human nature, and yet people, in general, possess it only in small degree.
Loyalty does not always imply loftiness of sentiment or superior education..
It seems to be exemplified often in uncultured men and women, who have not even had the advantages of common education.
We recall personally many such  instances for example, in our own history, the case of Porter Rockwell, whose loyalty to the Prophet Joseph Smith, was almost beyond belief.
Realizing that there is much more in the term loyalty than the mere dictionary definition, that it has a meaning quite impossible to express in words, let us, as women, cultivate its true spirit towards one another and toward our own organization, the Relief Society.
Let us be loyal to all its interests and hold our membership in its ranks sacred.
Let us be loyal to the instructions given by the Prophet Joseph Smith in the beginning, and never depart from his words of counsel.
Let us keep ever in mind the Thirteenth Chapter of 1st Corinthians, which was read in one of the first meetings of the Society concerning the value of charity and the other principles laid down at that time  progress and advancement in all good works.
This will be true loyalty to the teachings of the Prophet, who turned the key of knowledge for all women and made it possible for them to stand upon a higher plane.
Let us, of all women in the world, thus prove our loyalty to the Society which the Prophet organized, thus giving assurance of our fidelity to the church, of which we are members, and to the free country, of which we are citizens.
EMMELINE B WELLS.  .