[column 2]
tle for the true affection of the village
people, she seldom mingled with them; at
intervals she gave them out-door parties but
rarely appeared upon the scene herself.
Mr. Barton felt this keenly, for he loved the
people, he knew they were his true friends,
honest and loyal.
	Gradually the lives of the husband and
wife grew apart, there was no serious quar-
rel, she was unbearably sarcastic, and he
took her sharp sayings in dumb silence, love
to him had received a fatal wound.
	Finally a heavier blow fell upon the
household than the division between hus-
band and wife. Just when the father had
been planning in his mind what changes
might take place at Shirley's vacation, a
letter from the Professor came bringing the
sad news that Shirley had disappeared, “he
has taken nothing with him, and we have
had every one of his old haunts searched,
but no trace of him can be found, we are
ourselves deeply afflicted, for he has greatly
endeared himself to us and was most
respectful and affectionate to us all, but our
hearts are much more deeply grieved for
yourself and his poor mother;” so the letter
read.
	The clerk in the office looked up as he
heard the sobs of this great strong-minded
man, his master, when he read the letter,
but Mr. Barton took no notice, “shut the
office at the usual hour, say I have gone
home, I shall not come back today,” he said
as he rose abruptly the open letter in his
hand. “You have bad news, Mr. Barton,
I am sorry, believe me, can I do anything
for you? Can I help you, shall I call a cab?
you look so broken up,” said the kind-
hearted clerk.
	“No, I will walk, the air will do me good,
besides I can think better.” Yes he had
need to think, how could he tell the lad’s
mother, she would swoon perhaps; he could
not bear to go home, he walked away into 
the fields, he remembered the sayings of
Shirley’s boyhood, “Papa I shall go to sea,
and be a great Captain, and have ships of
my own, and build pretty cottages for the
sailors,” and he would sing of the ocean,
the great bounding, tossing, foaming
ocean.
	The twilight came on while he strolled
about the fields, and when he turned home-
ward the lights were streaming from the
cottage windows. “I must go in and tell
Laura, our boy has runaway” he said to
himself, and he hastened as one does, bent
on a hateful errand, lest he should not have
the courage if he loitered. Supper was
ready and Laura and little Richard were
waiting his coming—he knew he could not
eat, but Laura must have her tea, and he
took a cup, but his hand shook, and his
wife said, noticing his manner, “Are you
ill Charles?” “No, only upset, I shall
soon be better.” Has there been a distur-
bance at the mills, those men grow restless
towards pay day, I’ve noticed?” “Nothing
has gone wrong at the mills, I’ve had a let-
ter from Bristol, about Shirley.” “Has
he gone wrong, tell me the worst,” said
Mrs. Barton excitedly. “I can’t tell you, I
don’t know myself” and he handed her the
letter; but she did not faint, or even weep
as she read on “this is the old story over
again” she said, “he’s gone to sea undoubt-
edly, he knew we would not consent, and
so he’s gone without it. We shall hear
from him soon, when he is far away, so we
cannot bring him back, he will take no
harm, he was born to the music of the Xmas
bells; rather a sea Captain than the over-

[column 3]
seer of these humdrum mills.” Mr. Barton,
took Richard in his arms, as though for
comfort, such a frail child, and said, “we’ll
go up stairs Mrs. Barton, I must answer
this letter tonight,” and without more ado
they left the supper room.
	Mr. Barton wrote to the shipping mer-
chants at Bristol for particulars of the ship’s
crew on board the vessels that had sailed
about that time; and to the Professor to spare
no means to find out whither his boy had
gone; hearing nothing satisfactory he set
off himself for Bristol making diligent
search but all in vain.
	Christmas came but out of respect to Mr.
Barton the villagers refrained from any
public demonstrations; and indeed, the
young man’s fate was truly lamented; and
many a tear fell, whenever his name was
spoken. Even Mrs. Barton began to des-
pond as time wore on, and no news came of
her darling boy; she had been hopeful at
first, but as day after day she watched and
waited she grew pale, and sleepless, and 
finally so melancholy that Dr. Wentworth
advised the sea shore, and Mr. Barton con-
sented to her going. “I shall be nearer if
he comes back, and more likely to hear
something and you shall know im-
mediately,” she said to her husband the
morning of her departure; Aunt Grace had
come to travel with her, as Mr. Barton
could not leave his business just then.
	“I knew how ’twould be, I always said
her pride would have a fall,” said old Mrs.
Gentry when she heard Mrs. Barton had
gone, “he’ll never come back to her, he’s
dead most like, and that boy Richard will
never live to be a man, she’s punished severe
enough for looking down on them as made
their money for em.”
	“Now Bessie that’s very wrong,” said
her husband, “she’s not punished for that,
better folks nor her are chastened, what does
the Bible say Bessie, read about Job, how
he was afflicted, mind don’t go agin scrip-
tur. There’s not a better man livin than
Charlie Barton, I’ve known him since he
were a weelad, and as for Shirley you can’t
say there was any evil in him.”
	“No dad I dont say anything about 
Shirley, but its the stuck-up Bristol woman,
but she’ll suffer for’t ‘pride must have a fall’
that’s scripture ain’t it dad?”
	“Not exactly Bessie, but don’t rejoice in
anybody’s trouble, its wrong, its cruel, be-
sides you know how Miriam has always felt
about Shirley, she’s sure he’ll come back
sometime.”
	“Well yes maybe and Lottie will be mar-
ried and gone, and she set such store by
him, and I don’t see why I should be sorry
for ’em, they’ve brung me no end o’trouble,
what with Miriam bein in love with
Charlie, as she’ll never git over it, and Lot-
tie with Shirley, I’m the one as is to be
pitied.”
	“Lottie’s love weren’t very deep I should
think when she’s sweet on Jim Graham
a’ready, and you talkin of her marryin
soon yoursel.”
	“I’m glad if she do marry him and done
with’t I don’t want another old maid in the
family.”
	“Better have old maids than had hus-
bands for our girls; but I’ve no objections
to Jim Graham, he’s a fine lad and a good-
ish family, and we know’em for what they
are, they’ll have my consent when they’re
ready.”
	It was hard for Mrs. Gentry to forgive,
she was an honest, upright woman but she
was not fond of “bettermost people,” un-


[Column 1]
less they were very amiable. As for Shirley
he had never once thought of loving Lottie:
but he adored her sister, who was really
old enough to be his mother; of marriage
however, he had not even dreamed.
	Three long years had gone by and no
news of Shirley Barton, of all the ships
that had sailed out of Bristol most of them
had come back heavy laden and gone out
again, but still his mother hoped on, she
had grown stronger and returned to her
home at M—and though a sort of gloom
pervaded the place, at Christmas and holi-
day times, yet usually cheerfulness pre-
vailed and the Bartons were scarce ever 
without visitors from Bristol.
	It was at Christinas time three years and
more after Shirley’s absence, and the Bar-
ton homestead was filled with Bristol
people, mostly young folks, relatives and
friends, who were desirous of seeing a
Xmas festival in a village and Mr. and Mrs.
Barton had made preparations to have as
many of the people from the mills as could
be accommodated. The dinner was to be at
five, but as the day was cloudy, lamps were
lighted early, and gaiety seemed to reign
within and without. The Gentrys and
Grahams were there, and many others from
the mills; Mrs. Barton seemed herself
again, so old Dr. Wentworth remarked to
Miriam, to whom of late he had been de-
voted; but Miriam and Mr. Barton both
seemed restless. The dinner was over and
toasts were being given, but it was awk-
ward; the guests all seemed not to know
exactly what was most fitting to propose, for
each one present realized the absence of the
long-lost son, who would have been the
life of the company; in fact the sorrow on
his account had been general.
	Dr. Wentworth lifted his glass and was
about to speak, he had made up his mind to
propose a toast for the absent son—when the
boy himself, alive and well, appeared upou
the scene; fresh and blooming in a mid-
shipman’s costume, his sailor hat in hand,
the golden curls tossed back, and collar
thrown open, displaying a neck bronzed with
sun and wind. All eyes were fixed upon
him, and many a glass dropped from the
hands that held them shivering to atoms,
but Dr. Wentworth came to the rescue,
(for not a word had been spoken it was like
the dead come back again) “here’s to the
long lost lad returned to gladden hearts
and home: speak Shirley to your mother
and father." Coming out of the darkness
into the brilliant light, Shirley was dazed
and he was totally unprepared for the scene
he had burst in upon; he come in unan-
nounced to surprise the family, thinking it
would be only a small party, though he had
noticed the brilliant lights, but when he
saw the villagers, many whom he had
known intimately, he was bewildered and
speechless; he grasped the situation, how-
ever, and graciously withdrew followed by
his father, mother and Richard. Very lit-
tle was said, the company dispersed, the
guests retired to their apartments, and
Shirley who was much in need of rest but
could not sleep, sat long by the dusky fire-
light when all the lamps were out, talk-
ing of his adventures to the eager listeners.
	He had not intended to go to sea, not
then, he said, but he loved to see the ships
sail out and talk to the sailors, he was down
at the wharf, and had been beguiled into
one of the many drinking places, where a
crowd of fine, strong men were taking grog, 
before going on board a great whaling ves-
el, that was at anchor close by; he wanted

