[column 2]
when it is worshipped, then is the world in
danger of bankruptcy of all that is best for
humanity. Conscience, purity, upright-
ness, virtue, true love, reverence for the
highest and most sacred things, all those
are, in many instances, lost sight of in the
race for gold and some saving principle
must needs be brought to bear, to turn the
tide, and save the world from ruin that to
the highly spiritual mind seems imminent.
	It is good that time is marked off in
periods, that there is an old and a new year,
when a portion of the people will stop and
think of the past and the future. It is
glorious to have such days as Christmas and
New Year’s, when one thinks of “peace
and goodwill,” and when there is a greater
flow of love in human hearts, and some-
times forgiveness of each other,and reconcilia-
tions and memories come back that make
us tender and devotional.
	It may be possible there is too much feast-
ing and merriment, and too little that is
elevating in tone and character. Music
especially, sublime and sacred music, seems
always the proper expression of the deepest
and most reverential emotions of the soul;
the nearest akin to the divine element in
one’s nature, ,and yet how little of it one
hears nowadays on such occasions. The
Psalmist said, “A song of praise is a prayer
unto the Lord.” Long ago in the homes
of the people hymns were sung at prayer
time, they were a part of the family wor-
ship morning and evening. In how many
homes is that good old custom observed
now? Very few perhaps, but it has for the
most part gone out of fashion.
	During this year just past think of the
desolation and destruction made by cruel
war—nation against nation. And the
many terrible calamities that have befallen
people, and cities and islands made desolate
have we not here in Zion in the vales of the
mountains, reason to be grateful to our
Father in Heaven for his protecting care
that has been over us?
	In the New Year about to dawn the
people of Utah anticipate a great change
from the limited conditions of a Territory to
Statehood and it is the proud hope of every
true citizen that wisdom from above may
guide those who have been delegated to
frame the new constitution and that the
whole people men and women alike may
thereafter enjoy the full rights and privileges
of citizenship.


