MR. LAMBOURNE’S NEW BOOK.

	THE new book just issued for the holidays
by Alfred Lambourne resident of this city
and widely known here and elsewhere,
author, artist and story teller is beautiful
enough in the quality of paper, type and
binding to please the most fastidious taste.
The book has been brought out in Boston,
and is artistic in every respect. The story
is of the Rocky Mountains, our own dear
snow-capped everlasting hills, and is grace-
fully and tenderly written, and most ex-
quisitely illustrated. The book as a whole
inside and out, is suitable for the most
elegant drawing-room, or library table, and
withal the tale is graciously intermingled
with lofty sentiments and purity of language.
The title befits the subject, and blends
harmoniously with the pen sketches, and
characteristic pictures “Plet A Christmas
Tale of the Wasatch.” The characters are
true to life, and the descriptive parts of scenery
and of incidents, are most delightfully


written, although some are very pathetic.
To those who have lived in the mountains
it is intensely realistic, and to the lovers of
a good story well told, it must have great
attractions. The author has given much
time and labor—to the preparations of this
work of his mind and brain, and it is to be
hoped that lovers of fine art in composition
and material finish, will appreciate the book,
and that it will find ready sale among this
class of people. Authors write for the
future as well as the present: but the
publishers must be paid, if the writer lives
on dreams and fancies of his own vivid
magination, or starves in a garret as many
have done.
	The citizens of Salt Lake who talk so
much of home industry should also
recognize home talent and give full value
to the work of the brain, as well as the
work of the hands.
	Meantime let us hope in good faith, that
the book may sell well and the author
realize his great labor has been a financial,
as well as an artistic success. There are
many people in the community who can af-
ford expensive luxuries, and in good books
one is sure of returns for money invested.
if it were possible to say more for the book,
the writer would gladly do so, but the story
must be read to be appreciated, and one
does not like to know the contents of a
book beforehand, as it spoils in a great
measure the pleasure of the reader.


