HE COMETH NOT.

	[Continued From Page 219.]
her own accord, but if you go after her
Shirley coaxing her she’ll be trying the
same thing again doubtless,” Richard was
positively forbidden to go, but Mr. Barton
advised Shirley to take a house separate
from his mother, as she would never con-
sent to any of the family, visiting Miriam
Gentry. ‘‘Poor little woman” said the
kind-hearted man, she needs sympathy now
and Miriam is overflowing with kindness
and love, she is the very person to whom
one can go with trouble. The only one
my boy who never gave you up when you
were away so long.”
	Eleanor would not write to Shirley, he
had tried to defend his mother to his wife,
and had made matters worse, and so the
young wife waited, weeping and hysterical.
	‘‘A pretty scandal this will make” said
Mrs. Gentry to Miriam “taking in Shirley’s
wife, I have no patience with such non-
sense.” “Hush mother for pity’s sake,”
said Miriam, “she will hear you, her ears
are so quick to catch a sound,” but it was
already too late, she had heard and felt the
sting; and trembling in every limb and
weak from excessive grief, she put on her
hat and cloak disguising herself as much
as possible went down the garden walk and
was away upon the high road, long before
any one knew she had left the house.
Miriam was not aware of it until she went
into the room with a dainty lunch to try
and tempt her appetite. When she saw
the room deserted she felt positive why she
had fled, but without one word put on her
own things to try and find her. The search
was vain and she sent her little brother
with a message to Shirley but Mrs. Barton
intercepted the note, and though the young 
husband was nearly distracted, the mother
did not relent. When Miriam found
Shirley took no notice of her message and
did not come, she waited for the dawn of
day and commenced inquiries on her own
account, before noon Mr. Barton had heard
that Eleanor had gone away alone no one
knew whither. For the first time in his
life Shirley was severely reprimanded by
his father, and Mrs. Barton who heard the
stinging rebuke, said placidly, “She’s gone
to her grandma whom she adores more than
any one in all the world.” Before she
could say more Shirley had left the house
forever. I will find her dead or alive he
soliloquized why have I been so foolish,
Miriam must know I’m going in search of
her, and he dashed off a note in pencil as he
walked towards the station and mailed it to
Miriam expressing the wildest love for his
wife and the strongest friendship and grati-
tude to herself.
	Young Mrs. Barton had taken a night
train for Bristol and gone to that large city
instead of going home, in fact she could not
go direct, not even by coach, she had
thought of walking but was too weak to
undertake it, and the idea of self-destruc-
tion had never entered her mind. She was
not without money and had brought with
her all her jewelry. Shirley went to Bris-
tol, too and from one inn to another for he


[column 1]
felt she would not tell her grandma of her
unhappiness as she had warned her against
marrying a young man fond of the seas.
	Shirley found his wife at last, found her
in the great seaport, Bristol, he had searched
one whole week, and left no method un-
tried, she was suffering greatly from over
anxiety and worry and a Doctor had been
called by the woman in whose house she
had taken lodgings. Shirley was wild
with joy, and yet tortured with mental
pain, lest serious harm would come to her
after all; she scarcely realized how matters
stood so unstrung were her nerves, and so
over excited her brain. “Send for her
mother,” the physician had said when call-
ed in; and the mistress of the house had
answered, “she has no mother, but she is
married, see she wears a ring.” 
	“Then call her husband here im-
mediately,” was his reply, but before many
hours had elapsed he came. 
	Shirley dispatched a note to Miriam
Gentry, only these words “Come without
delay, Eleanor is very ill, she may die,”
signed “Shirley.” Miriam was soon there
and in charge, and very shortly after a babe
was born and the pale, sweet child-mother
called her Miriam from her birth. Eleanor
was happy now notwithstanding what she
had suffered, and recovered speedily.
Shirley was anxious to take her back to
M——but she said “No! Never! take me
to E——to my grandma now, and I will
try to be content.” So Miriam, Shirley, and
baby set off in the stage coach one cold
morning and were put down at Grandma
Morton’s door not many hours after; the
old lady’s delight was exhilarating when
she saw the happy party arrive: she had
heard nothing of the troubles of her
darling. “No more parting now, I shall
never dare lose sight of you again,” said
Shirley, when he saw the love she expressed
for her grandma; but he did not measure
his own strength correctly; Miriam believed
in him, so did Eleanor; but his resolves
were vain; he was too near the sea; his
mother reproached him with ingratitude,
and Richard was lying ill nigh unto death,
“leave Eleanor with the nurse and come to
us,” his mother wrote. But Shirley could
not, he worried was perplexed and rest-
less, “the sea will bear me away out of all
this, Miriam will look to baby and Eleanor,
I will go aboard a merchantman, a few
months voyage around the Meditterranean,
and when I return all will have settled
down to quiet." And so he sailed away for
a few months leaving Miriam in charge of
all his household treasures. Grandma was
there too and Nellie as he had endearingly
called her since her illness, she seemed
such a child, had consented to his having a
change, besides he must earn money, he
would not accept it from his father while
his mother declared that unless he returned
to M——with his wife and child he should
never have a penny with her consent, his
father had remitted sufficent to pay all ex-
penses so far and even more, but Mrs. Mor-
ton was poor and his wife must have
delicacies. And Shirley sailed away brave
true-hearted and strong intending to return
in a short time. At first all went well,
Miriam went back to M—and answered all
the numerous questions of neighbors but
Mrs. Barton would not condescend to in-
quire. Mr. Gentry informed the elder Bar-
ton his employer at the first opportunity
giving him full particulars, which he repeated 
to Richard, promising to take him to see

