JANE ANN BOWN.

	Sister Jane Ann Bown, wife of William Bown,
departed this life at 2:20 p. m. December 11, 1894,
at Fayette, Sanpete County, Utah. The cause of
her death was congestion of the lungs, being sick
but nine days.
	Sister Bown was the daughter of John E. and
Mary Metcalf, born March 15, 1834, at Hull, York-
shire, England. She was baptized July 9, 1850,
was married in January, 1855, emigrated to Utah
the same year, lived in Salt Lake City a short
time, then moved to Springville, Utah county,
where they lived until 1861, when they were called
to go to Dixie, and settled in St. George. Brother
Bown was released from that mission on account
of his health; came to Fayette in 1865, where
they have resided up to the time of her demise.
	Sister Bown has been president of the Relief
Society from its first organization, over twenty
years ago. She has also acted as president of the
Primary Association since October, 1891. She
has ever been faithful in these associations, and
not only has she been active in her official duties,
but in ministering to the sick and needy in our
midst. She was the mother of ten children, and
had also twenty-two grand-children. She was a
faithful Latter-day Saint, and was much beloved
by all who knew her. She leaves a husband, six
children and a large circle of friends to mourn
her loss.
	The funeral was held on the 13th at 12, noon
and was largely attended.
COM.

Editor Woman's Exponent:—
	IT becomes our painful duty to inform you of
the death of our esteemed sister, Mary Ann
Francis Lisonbee Rubey. She departed this life,
at Circleville. She was born in Pickens Co.
Ala., Feb. 27, 1837, and was married to Alfred
Rubey, June 26, 1854.
	Shortly after her marriage her husband deter-
mined on emigrating to California. While enroute
they heard the gospel preached and California
lost its allurements for them. They determined
to cast their lot with the Saints of God, and Sister
Rubey remained faithful unto death.


She was the mother of eleven children of whom
six survive. She presided over the Circleville
Relief Society for four years and was esteemed in
her official capacity. Beloved of those who knew
her she now rests in peace awaiting the
resurrection of the just.
LODEMA C. RUBEY.
Washington, Utah, Dec. 4, 1894.


