THE OLD AND NEW YEAR.
	
	THE year is nearing its close, and brings
with its departing days thoughts of what
has taken place, or perchance of what might
have been happier times, had one only
realized the importance of the actual present.
Are we better for the experience gained?
We are apt to ask ourselves. Have we
materially improved in excellence in any
one virtue? Are we more charitable, or
 more sympathetic? Have we reached out
and broadened our sphere of action? What
have we done for the betterment of human-
ity? Every individual person who is
actuated by correct motives in any degree,
must naturally pause and consider as the 
year grows old, some one or more of these
natural individual questions.
	Looking at the dear old world as it is
(for after all it is a good world made beauti-
ful for the human race) one cannot help be-
ing meditative and contemplating seriously
life in its various phases, as one after an-
other the years roll on filling up the period
of mother Earth's great age; and noting the
many great changes in material things
that from time to time make the sum of pro-
gress far beyond the general expectation, 
though scarcely realizing the ideal of those,
who see far into the future. The little
that one alone can do seems too insignificent
to be considered, in contrast with what is 
going on daily, the world over, and what is
expected of the mass of mankind. And 
yet each one adds something, if it be only
a deed of kindness, a word of encourage-
ment to the desolate, a prayer for the sor-
rowing; any sweetness to the bitter
cup which many fellow-mortals have dealt
out to them in overflowing draughts. The 
brave heart, the generous soul, helps by its
very courage to stimulate another. It is 
not all in giving, there are other expres-
sions of one’s goodness besides the bestowal
of gifts, be they ever so acceptably offered.
	In this matter of fact age it is barely
possible we lay too much stress upon
material things; we have come to consider
money or its equivalent, necessary to hap-
piness, and yet our Savior said, “take no
thought for the morrow.” “Consider the
lilies of the field” etc. There are many
who will say, we must not take this in its
literal meaning; but is it not true that man-
kind at the present are passing through
what must inevitably be called “the mon-
ey age," the greed for money is really so
decidedly uppermost. So far as money
serves a wise purpose, and is not the master
instead of the servant, it may be well, but
when it takes the place of all sentiment,

