NOTES AND NEWS.

	T. B. ALDRICH left Boston October 4 for
a trip aronnd the world. At last accounts
he was at Yokohama, Japan.
	MISS AGNES REPPLIER has left London
and when last heard from was in Vienna,
en route for Constantinople, Greece, and
Egypt,
	MISS KIPLING, a sister of Rudyard
Kipling, has gone into literature. She is a
Mrs. Fletcher, but Kipling is a better name
to conjure with.
	BRET HARTE has published more than
thirty volumes and writes at the rate of two
a year. He passed his fifty-fifth birthday
last August.
	MRS. A. L. WISTAR, whose translations
of the stories of E. Marlitt and other Ger-
man writers have brought her so much
fame, is having a cottage built at Northeast
H arbor, Me.
	MRS. KATE DOUGLAS WIGGIN is soon to
be married to George Riggs, a young busi-
ness man of New York. They were to-
gether last summer on a coaching party in
Wales. This will not interfere with Mrs.
Wiggin’s literary career.
	HERR BJORNSTJERNE BJORNSON, who
is at present staying in Tyrol with his
family, intends to spend the winter in
Rome. There he hopes to finish “a great
social drama” upon which he has been for
some time at work.
	AFTER Victor Hugo died more than
10,000 isolated verses were found scattered
about his room, written on little slips of
paper. He used to write incessantly, even
while he was dressing himself in the morn-
ing.
	EMILE ZOLA, according to his biographer,
writes four printed pages in the Charpentier
edition of his novels every day. This is
his task; he never writes less and he never
writes more, stopping at the end of the
fourth page even if he is in the midst of a
sentence.
	THERE is a time to be born, and a time
to die, says Solomon, and it is the memen-
to of a truly wise man; but there is an in-
terval between these two times of infinite
importance.—Richmond.
	BOOKS, like friends, should be few and
well chosen. Like friends, too, we should
return to them again and again—for, like
true friends, they will never fail us—never
cease to instruct—never cloy.—Joineriana,
1772.
	EQUITY in law is the same that the spirit
is in religion, what every one pleases to
make it. Sometimes they go according to
conscience, sometimes according to law,
sometimes according to the rule of court.---
Selden.
	WHOEVER feels pain in hearing a good
character of his neighbor will feel a pleas-
ure in the reverse. And those who despair
to rise in distinction by their virtues are
happ[-] if others can be depressed to level
with themselves. Franklin.

