WEST BOUNTIFUL.

Editor Woman’s Eponent:
	THINKING perhaps you will give the following
space in your valuable paper we take the liberty
of addressing you in behalf of our Relief Society.
This society is a small one, only about thirty-three
members enrolled, but all, or nearly so, are good
energetic workers. Our meetings are quite well
attended, and we are trying to obey counsel in
storing up wheat, so that when the time comes,
as we expect it will, we shall have something to
give, at least a few of God’s creatures who will
come to Zion for safety.
	At present we have no poor in our ward, and
can truthfully say that we do live in the land
Bountiful. But all is not pleasant sunshine with
us, for death has stepped in and taken one of
our most faithful and useful sisters,—LUCY DARK
MUIR.
	Sister Muir was born in England October 16th
1838, and died August 3rd 1894, being nearly
fifty-six years old. She has been a teacher and
leader among the young people, devoting herself
earnestly to their interest. She was counselor in
the Primary class, Secretary to the Relief Society,
and President of the Young Ladies’ Mutual Im-
provement Association. She had for many years
led the young ladies class in Sunday School.
	As Secretary of our Society, Sister Lucy was
ever at her post, willing to do good to others,
always ready to give counsel or answer questions
on any subject; she had a smile and a kind word
for all who met her, and in losing Sister Muir
from our circle, we feel that her chair will be
ever vacant until that great day when all circles
will be completed. Ever praying for the welfare
of the Sisters in Zion we remain, Yours Truly,
MARTHA FACKRELL, President, JANE PACK,
Vice President, ZILLA GRANT, Secretary.


Visit the Folks.
	FOR the Holiday season the Union
Pacific will sell tickets from points on the
system on December 24th, 25th and 31st,
1894, and January 1st, 1895, at greatly re-
duced rates. For full information call on
nearest Union Pacific Agent.

Woman's Co-operative Inst'n
Keeps on Hand
DRESS GOODS AND TRIMMINGS, FANCY
ARTICLES AND NOTIONS. BOOKS
AND STATIONERY, EQUI-
POISE WAISTS, ETC.
	Dress Making in all its branches, Millinery, lates
styles, Hats and Bonnets cleaned and retrimmed
No. 41 S.	WEST TEMPLE STREET
		       Opp. Grant Bro. Stable

