ST. GEORGE STAKE.

	ON the 23rd of October President Anna
L. Ivins with her counselors, left St. George
to visit the eastern settlements of the St.
George Stake of Zion.
	We went to Leeds and held meeting at
eleven o’clock, Sister Anna Wilkinson pre-
siding, we had a very good meeting, the
sisters manifested a disposition to keep up
their meetings regularly.
	We proceeded to Toquerville, met with
the Relief Society at 7 p. m. Sister Louisa
Naglye the former President having moved
away, we reorganized with Sisters Eliza
Ann Slack as president, Susannah Bring-
hurst as first and Sister Stapley as second
counselors.
	On the 24th we proceeded on to Virgen
City where we met at eleven o’clock with
the Relief Society. Sister Jepson resigned
her position as first counselor to Sister
Sariah Workman the President, after giving
Sister Jepson a vote of thanks, Sisters
Mary Ann Beebe and Ella Hilton were
chosen as first and second counselors to the
president in the Relief Society. We went
on to Grafton, meeting convened at three
o’clock President Ballard was quite feeble
but felt refreshed, and strengthened by
meeting with the sisters. Proceeded on to
Rockville, where we spent the night at
Bishop Hircshe’s.
	October 25th we met with the Relief
Society of Rockville and had a good turn
out; the sisters feel well and enjoy the meet-
ing s very much; at the close of the meeting
Sister Daley president of the Primary
Association brought in her resignation. We
were very sorry to have her resign, as she
has been very faithful, we gave her a vote
of thanks, and honorably released her.
	At the close of the meeting we returned
to Toquerville; at six p. m. met with the
Primary Association and had an interesting
time with the children. We spent the
night with Sister Susannah Bringhurst. On
the 26th we traveled on to Harmony and
held meeting at seven p. m. Sister Maria
Pace presiding, had a very nice meeting
and a very comfortable house to meet in.
	On the 27th we arrived at Pinto and met
with the Relief Society at three p. m. at
Sister Mary Knell’s home on account of her
poor health. President Ann Knell presid-
ing. On the 28th we returned home hav-
ing traveled 145 miles and been absent six
days.
