[column 2]
to the effect that because of Mrs. Kimball’s
faithful and diligent labors in the interest
of the association, she should be made
Honorary President for life; which was car-
ried by the entire assembly.
	In August the Utah Woman’s Press
Club and the Utah W. S. A. gave a lawn
party, at which time (as on many other
occasions) the whole tendency was in favor
of suffrage. Hon. George Q. Cannon, for
many years delegate to Congress from this
territory, delivered an eloquent and forcible
address on the subject.
	An assembly of women under the
auspices of the Territorial W. S. A. was
held February 3, 1894, and was very largely
attended by both men and women; the ob-
ject being to awaken an interest on the
question under consideration and give to
passive and indifferent people some sound
and wholesome reasons for the faith and
hope of the believers in woman suffrage.
Logical and vigorous speeches were made
by both men and women, Hon. John E.
Booth, of the present Legislative Assembly,
making the principal address.
	We are very much blessed here in having
a woman’s newspaper in which minutes of
meetings of the W. S. A. in all parts of
the territory appear from time to time, and
there is always a woman suffrage depart-
ment especially devoted to information on
this important subject. The Deseret Eve-
ning News and Salt Lake Herald (the last a
morning paper) (dalies) are always willing
to publish news of importance for the suf-
frage association and are on the right side
of the question. Besides these city papers
there are a dozen or more newspapers,
weeklies and semi-weeklies, in the several
counties, willing to publish any matter
favorable to the cause. So as far as press
notices go, we are well supported. Our
new Press Committee this year are young
women—Miss Mary M. Wells, chairman—
and we feel confident of their ability to do
good work in this direction.
	I have tried to ascertain how large a pro-
portion of the taxes in the territory are paid
by women, but have only succeeded in
gathering reliable information from one
county, where it is stated 45 per cent, of
the tax is paid by women who own their
own homes or are property holders, yet
have no vote or voice in controlling mat-
ters pertaining thereto.
	The sixteen counties where auxiliary as-
sociations have been organized, are general-
ly holding regular meetings and doing good
work; the advice given them this year has
been to ask permission to meet with the
county boards of education and get practical
ideas and knowledge of the methods of
action, so as to become familiar with the
rules and regulations of procedure in such
work, as in all probability the positions on
school boards will be the first offices to
which women will be elected when the
franchise is extended to them.
	Our semi-annual convention will be held
in April, at which time we hope to be able
to give such instruction and information as
may be received from the general conven-
tion at Washington. We have great
anticipation for the present year, realizing
as we do, most emphatically, that whether
women are ready or not for the ballot,
universal suffrage will soon be accorded to
the women of this nation; and it behooves
all who have the matter at heart to be
diligent in season and out of season, to
create a public sentiment favorable to wise
action in the premises, when the long looked

[column 3]
for opportunity shall arrive. Success to
the honest endeavors of all who are laboring
with zeal and enthusiasm in the cause so
dear to the heart of humanity.
	Respectfully submitted,
