[Column 2]
to see them off, he drank with one of the
lads, a fine young fellow, about his own
age; and then went on board with him in-
tending to get ashore again very soon, but
he fell asleep, and when he awoke, all was
dark, and he could not recall where he was,
or how he came to be in such a strange
place: for he could feel the motion of the
vessel and grew dizzy when he tried to rise.
	“What I endured for the first few days on
board that vessel can never be told, the re-
morse of conscience, the mortification, the
despair; many times I prayed to die, I felt
I could never meet my father, or mother,
or any of my former friends again. We
had a fine Captain, he blamed the young
man, Ralph Rathburn, for bringing me on
board, until, I was so sorry for Ralph that
I began to be reconciled to my fate. He
mourned for me too, poor fellow, and he
tried to make up for it in every way pos-
sible. He taught me how to do my work
and I had the tact and skill necessary to get
on. We were always good friends, and no
matter where we put ashore, he would show
me around and entertain me after the true
sailor style. And sailors have good hearts
after all even though their ways are rough,
their manners uncouth, and their use of the
King’s English is beyond description.
There were many unpleasant experiences
for a fellow brought up tenderly as I had
been, but Captain Lamb noticed this and
gave me the easiest places and, as you see,
I improved so rapidly, and displayed so
much courage, and such an adventurous
spirit at times, that he promoted me, when
our mate (who was not over strong at the
beginning of the voyage) was quite unable
to keep on duty; and I cannot say but my
great grandfather having been an Admiral
in His Majesty’s service had something to
do with it.”
	The festivities on the day following
Shirley’s return were on the most magnifi-
cent plan ever known in M—and the
whole village was in a state of joyful ex-
citement. The very garb he wore was a
decided attraction to the young people, we
who live in this day and in an inland
country know comparatively little of how the
sailor dress fascinates people especially the
young. Scores of girls fell in love with
Shirley Barton, and he was jovial and
courteous with them all, but there were
three who were so much enamored of him
that they watched with envy and jealousy
the attentions he bestowed on others and
especially one, who as they put it, “couldn’t
compare with those in his own vicinity.”
She was neither beautiful, nor yet attractive
to her own sex, (who were for the most
part envious of her) notwithstanding her
plain appearance and her poverty, yet the
young men admired her, she could talk
well, dance well, and her voice was
singularly pathetic.
	“Think of Shirley Barton being en-
gaged to Miss Morton and he has only
seen her twice,” said spiteful Susan Del-
more to her two friends Octavia Willis and
Eugenia Somers, the trio they were called,
all well to do, and girls of style and the tip
top of society in M. they boasted on oc-
casions that their fathers were not in Mr.
Barton’s employ, but in business, and their
mothers had never worked for their living
not even as governesses, in fact they were
well connected as the world goes.
	But be this as it may, Shirley fell in love
at first sight with Miss Morton; his mother
fretted and fumed, but all to no purpose,
his father said nothing, but allowed him to

[Column 3]
do as he pleased. Finally when it became
apparent that the young man was deter-
mined to marry the girl of his choice, if he
could persuade her, which was not such an
easy matter, and after Mrs. Barton had used
her utmost endeavors to dissuade him from
it, and implored his father to forbid the
marriage, (which she declared was partly
due to the interference of Miriam Gentry)
“who seemed ever her evil genius,” she
said, she consoled herself with thinking it
would keep him at home, and she took the
first opportunity to advise him to bring Miss
Morton to the house. By much persausion
and entreaty she at last consented to “beard
the lioness,” so to speak for she was in
mortal dread of Mrs. Barton.
	Once within the Barton home Shirley
never left her for a moment, lest his mother
should frighten her away, for she was as
timid as a bird, and almost as fragile. Mrs.
Barton looked her over and inquired
minutely into her pedigree, every now and
then, saying “Humph so he was your
uncle, she was your grandmother,” with
anything but an approving manner.
	After the visit of Miss Morton, Mrs. Bar-
ton was more obstinate about the marriage,
"she has no sort of family reputation to fall
back upon, she is only a village girl for all
her fine manners and attainments; I wish
Shirley you would give up this whim, you
will soon tire of those soulful eyes, and the
girl is really not of good family, go to
Bristol and prepare for college under Profes-
sor Bradley, he will take you back again,
you may marry among the best, your
father’s wealth is an inducement for any
girl and you will surely regret it if you take
this child, without either money or ances-
try.” “But Mamma she is lovely, she sings
like an angel,” said Richard, “I love her
more now than Shirley, I wish I could mar-
ry Eleanor myself no one should hinder
me.” “Who told you her name Richard?”
enquired Shirley. “She told me, and said
could call her sister and I will in spite of
Mamma who dislikes her and she knows it,
besides she’s not so much in love with
Shirley, its only his imperious manner, and
she hopes to win him over to love home and
the country and leave off sea-faring which
will make him coarse, and wean him from
those who love him so devotedly.” “O, is
this all little man,” said Shirley, “we shall
see what this young woman can do anon.
I am not jealous of my little brother but no
one else must interfere. I must be the sole
possessor of this lovely village maiden, who
is without anything to recommend her, save
her innocence and purity.”
	And they were married within three
months at the little church in E—where
Eleanor Morton’s parents were born and
had died. Mrs. Barton would not con-
descend to witness the ceremony though
the young people came home as soon as the
wedding was over.
	One year of love’s sweet young dream;
and of intense sorrow too for the bride, and
she fled from the home that was unbearable
to her sensitive nature, to Miriam Gentry
for protection. She would not go to her
grandma, to burden her with sorrow, father
and mother were both dead, she had not
brother or sister; Mrs. Barton had made
her life unendurable; she had professed
everything and fulfilled nothing. “Such a
child, she can never be really a wife or a
mother.” Richard pined for her society al-
most as much as Shirley himself—“Let her
be ’ said Mrs. Barton “she’ll come back of
		[Continued on Page 221.]


