[column 2]
the baby and Eleanor as soon as he was well.
Richard grew worse and his mother becom-
ing really alarmed wrote to Aunt Grace at
Bristol to come; and to try to get Shirley’s
wife to allow her to bring the baby, in fact
she wanted the child; and added “do per-
suade Eleanor to give the baby to me. then
she can help herself I hear they are very
poor.” Mrs. Barton wanted possession of
the child; then to influence Shirley to return
home if possible, and she cared not what
should become of the little mother. Miss
Holton went to E——and interviewed
young Mrs. Barton, but to no purpose.
She was respectful but firm, “upon no ac-
count would I give my child into her keep-
ing, I would rather beg my bread from
door to door.” Miss Holton was amazed
when Eleanor’s grandma came in to be in-
troduced, to find her an old schoolmate,
whom she had lost sight of years before,
and many reminiscences were recalled to
each of those mature women and the day
was a pleasant one after all. When Aunt
Grace arrived at M——Richard was sinking
rapidly, but as soon as she could she told
Mrs. Barton, “Eleanor comes of a fine old
Bristol family, her grandmother was at
school with me there one of the most charm-
ing girls, married a brilliant officer, a wid-
ow now with a moderate income and as
grand as a Duchess in appearance.” “But
the child Aunt Grace, can I have her? I
shall be left childless you see, Richard can-
not live.”
	It was hard for Aunt Grace, who loved
her niece to see her in grief, but she must
speak plainly, “No Laura you never will,
have that child unless the mother should
die.”
	In a few days loneliness and gloom set-
tled down upon the Barton home; a mound
in the churchyard was all that remained of
the frail child so beloved; there was no tid-
ings of Shirley, nor of his young wife and
babe. Aunt Grace stayed on to relieve
Mrs. Barton of household cares and comfort
her, in her great affiction, and Mr Barton
plunged into his business affairs trying to
drown his sorrows.
	Years went by and but few changes came,
Eleanor lived on, some letters had come,
full of more adventures and extended
voyages at sea, but as Shirley sailed from
place to place, stopping only at seaport
towns, her letters so full of love and hope
never reached him; “He cometh not” she
repeated over and over when alone; and he
began to despair; he wrote to his mother,
telling her he was now Master of a vessel
Captain Shirley Barton asking her to give
him some news of his wife and child; but
she never even sent the message to them
and this was the last ever heard from him
direct. Long years after when little
Miriam was grown to womanhood and
Eleanor had made for herself a competence,
an honored name, though a fictitious one,
by her pen. Miriam Gentry always faith-
ful learned from Mrs. Barton, (who now that
her husband was dead, no longer feared
Miriam’s influence) that Shirley was dead.
Miriam determined to unravel the secret
which had been kept from his wife and
child, and she succeeded; by means of win-
ning the confidence of Aunt Grace now al-
most in her dotage.
	It was Christmas eve twenty years after
the date of Shirley’s return to M—— and
Miriam a confirmed old maid over forty.
Her sister Lottie had half a dozen children
and Mrs. Gentry had past away. Miriam
kept her father’s house; she had made up

[column 3]
her mind not to write to Eleanor but to go
on a visit to E—— leaving her father in
Lottie’s care to have Xmas with the
children; there was sure to be a happy party
for Mr. and Mrs. Graham and Lizzie (who
had married well) with her husband and
little ones would be there, so Miriam set off
arriving at E. the day before Xmas. As
soon as affectionate greetings were over be-
tween the two. “My Miriam has had
strange forbodings and peculiar dreams,”
said Eleanor to Miriam Gentry, “I hope
your coming is the fulfillment, I feel that
something must be pending, and I dread
any great change. my grandma’s death,
though sad for us, has left us independent,
I am going to take a long rest, perhaps go
out to India, I fancy some way that Shirley
is there.” Miriam Gentry sighed, “Why
do you sigh surely you have no news of
him or you would have written?” Miriam
scarce knew how to tell the story she had
come to unfold. Eleanor saw it in her ex-
pression, and said, “Miriam is the news
you bring good or ill, tell me qnickly?”
“Neither but very important especially so
to Miriam. Her father died years ago, and
she is the only heir to Mr. Barton’s wealth.”
“Go on” said Eleanor “I can bear all now
nothing more can come to me from him, I
always feared he would not come, it is all
over now.”
	“Yes he died true to you Eleanor and
hoped to come to you—died in far away
Bombay on Christmas eve, so young not
yet thirty and you still hoping and teaching
Miriam to love him.”
	“How do you know all this, and are you
sure? He cannot be dead, Shirley Barton
my baby’s father dead and we not know it;
so strong, and me so frail, and still alive,
through all these weary, dreary years of
mourning. I will not believe it until I
have the proof.”
	“A sad Christmas for you and Miriam but
alas life itself is sad and full of mysteries.”
	“Indeed Miriam, but there are true hearts
and noble souls and you have proven one
among a thousand, stay with me always
Miriam you loved Charles Barton and
Shirley for his sake, we will share all with
you if you will stay with us, we need you
most,” just then the younger Miriam
entered the room her golden curls and fair
brow so like Shirley’s, “O Aunt Miriam
here, how lovely, I dreamed of her last
night, that she brought us precious jewels
so dazzling and brilliant that our eyes were
blinded with tears, and when we opened
them again, the casket of jewels held only
pale ashes.”
	“It is true ‘ashes to ashes’ our jewels of
love and memory have turned to ashes, and
Miriam brings today instead of ‘Peace on
earth,’ Peace to his ashes, far away, your
father sleeps in fair Bombay. But ere
another year rolled round the estate was
settled, and Miriam, Eleanor and her fair
daughter knelt at Shirley’s grave, strewing
it with flowers on the next Christmas Eve.


