the village folks were all “agate” to hear
the news; and each one wanted to be first
to carry the glad message if such it should
be (for the master was a great favorite, he’d
been “born among’em” they often said to
each other,) and there were no doubts in
their minds as to the object of Dr. Went-
worth’s visit.
	The evening grew late and still no word
came, the doors were shut, for it was bit-
ter cold, and there was sharp frost in the
air; the music from the Church rang out
clear and full of pathos;—and the village
children heeding not the cold, could be seen
in groups going here and there singing
snatches of Christmas melodies as they
threw from door to door sprays of holly.
When the hilarity had ceased and quiet
was settling down and while the Christmas
bells were ringing joyfully, nurse
Goodman came down the oaken staircase
in her soft slippers, her face beaming with
pride, though tears were on her cheeks, and
opening the door of the great dining room,
where the master sat by the open fire, un-
easy and restless, announced ere entering
the room “ye may’n come up n’ow Maister
Barton as quick as ye like, ye’ve a fine son
born to the tune o’ the Xmas bells, and he’ll
be mighty lucky, I’m sure, for he roared as
we could na hear the bells ring.”
	Many a good woman peeped out inquir-
ingly from behind her bedroom curtain as
the Doctor’s gig rattled over the frozen
ground, long after midnight, but at the
first gray dawn of morning the news that
an heir was born to Master Barton, flew
like wildfire from house to house. And
such a Christmas there had never been since
old Maister Barton’s time so the villagers
one and all declared. 
	The women were not fond of the young
mistress, she was’nt their sort, “young
master should have wed one of the girls
from hereabouts, and not gone off to Bristol
for a stuck-up young woman, I doubt me
she’ll put fine notions into the lad’s head
when he grows up” said Mrs. Gentry to
her neighbor Janet Graham, after her first
visit to see the baby.
	“Now don’t be prophecyin evil to the lad, 
he’s to be Christened tomorrow, and Lizzie
tells me, the boy’s robe is two yards and a
half long, and the lace is old Venetian, and
his head is so thick covered with golden
curls, that Mrs. Barton told the nurse he
need’nt wear caps, (though they're all the
finest lace,) but nurse would’nt hear to it,
and our Lizzie says, as how Mrs. Barton
made herself sick a cryin and a frettin
about the caps.” Lizzie was Mrs. Graham’s
daughter, and a sort of lady’s maid of all
work to Mrs. Barton, and she was never
tired of repeating to her mother what her
mistress said and did, and Janet, as her
mother was always called, told everything
to Mrs. Gentry (with whom she never
agreed about anything however) for she had
a kind heart, and Mrs. Gentry was envious,
that young Barton had not taken to her
daughter Miriam, to whom he paid “great
attentions,” as she repeated over and over

[Column 3]
again till the whole village gossipped about
it; and “Miriam was so upset,’’ she declared,
“that she went off to her uncle’s, so’s no-
body should see she was cut up about the
marriage.” The truth was, she went away
until the gossip should die out, for she was
a sensible young woman, and young Barton
had really given her to understand what he
meant by, “the attentions,” Mrs. Gentry
talked of so much.
	“Well-a-day whoever heard the like” said
Mrs. Graham to Lizzie as the girl repeated
to her mother the scene at the Barton’s the
night before the Christening, on her visit
home afterwards. “Little you tho’t sittin
there in the Church so solemn-like, what a
fuss our young mistress had been making
with the master the night afore. Nurse
Goodman told the whole thing to me, she
would’nt think of his even having his fath-
er’s name as if Charles wasn’t a grand name,
when kings have borne it, as Master told
her; but no he must be called for her grand-
father the Admiral, and she had her way,
but I do think its a pretty name Shirley—
and nurse said as how, the master wanted
Miriam Gentry to be the child’s godmother,
and the mistress flew into a passion directly,
and she said, “Yes I’ve heard of your at-
tentions to that young woman, and a nice
scandal ’twould be if she were to be god-
mother, no, I’ve sent for Aunt Grace, and
she’ll be here presenlty,” and sure enough,
nurse said, just then the door bell rang, and
before Mrs. Barton had quieted down, Miss
Holton (Aunt Grace as she called her) had
her things off, and was in the room, and
such a flurry there was; but Mr. Barton
was as sober as a Judge, and never a word
did he say, so she had it all her own way,
and Master has scarcely spoken a syllable
in the house since."
	“And to think how fine and pleased we
all were and wishing them joy like that, and
she to think my Miriam not good enough
for godmother to the boy; (he’s a reg’lar
beauty for all that) and I doubt me he’ll
be as proud as a peacock, and lord it over
the workin men when he steps in his
father’s shoes.” replied Mrs. Gentry to
Janet Graham when she heard what Liz-
zie had told her mother, rehearsed to her as
soon as Janet could get time to run in; and
half the village knew the story before ’twas
a week old.
	Time went on, and the village prospered,
until it was quite a town, and Mr. Barton
who was the successor of his father and the
overseer at the Mills, grew rich, with one
invention and another, and his wife was as
haughty, as he was amiable; and as much
disliked as he was beloved. One more son
had been born to them, nine years after the
first, but he was a delicate boy, while
Shirley was strong and manly, and a greater
favorite than even his father had been.
Miriam Gentry remained single, and was
the boy’s first teacher,and strangely enough
as he grew up, he clung to her as his ideal;
which vexed his mother beyond expression;
and she contrived by all means in her pow-
er to keep Shirley from her, which only made
matters worse; Miriam had a younger sister
Charlotte who was a sort of musical genius,


[column 1]
a singer and could play the violin; and
Shirley would steal away and spend his
evenings there, singing and playing on the
flute to Lottie's violin while the stately
Miriam accompanied them on the piano.
	“He is only a boy and will outgrow this
childish love for girls so much older than
himself, I have no fears, besides he must
go to college, we can afford it.” said his
father on one occasion when Mrs. Barton
had been urging him to take some positive
measures to stop these visits.
	Mrs. Barton made up her mind that
Shirley should go at once, and set about the 
preparations; Mr. Barton was quite willing
for he felt the boy was far advanced in his
studies, a fine scholar all his teachers said, 
but knew he must undergo some discipline
beforehand, and it was finally decided he
should go to Bristol, his mother's native
City, and remain there a year under the
tutelage of a learned Professor, whom his
mother had known.
	The boy went away at last willingly;
though he had protested against going, and
had made more ado about leaving Miriam
than his own father and mother (of which
his mother was in blissful ignorance) but
his father guessed from hints dropped by
the elder Gentry, who was one of his
trusted men. The first few weeks Shirley
studied diligently and Professor Bradley
wrote glowing accounts of his young pupil
to the parents at M— but later on he in-
formed them the boy was passionately fond
of the sea, that his lessons were perfectly
learned, he had such a wonderful memory,
but his thoughts seemed far away. he was
absent-minded, and waking or dreaming it
was always the sea.
	“It is born in him and he can't help it;
undoubtedly Laura you’ve filled his head
with nursery tales of your grandfather, the
old Admiral, and you’ve hung those marine
views in every room in the house, to im-
press him with the greatness of your ances-
try; however I’ll write to Bradley to hur-
ry him off to the university, and he’ll have
something else to do than dream by the sea-
shore, his companions will cure him of idle
day-dreams,” said his father after reading
the Professor’s letter.
	“I’m sure Charles you blame me for all
the boy’s faults, its a great pity you hadn’t
married the Gentry girl, she’s no doubt
keeping herself single for you; it isn’t
enough to have won your affections,  but
she’s tried her coquetry on my boy to my
sorrow.”
	“This is too serious an accusation to
be passed over silently,” replied the hus-
band, “never mention Miriam Gentry’s
name again, I forbid it,” and Mr. Barton
walked off to his office, the first time since
his marriage, angry and in sullen silence.
	It was true he had admired Miriam as a 
sort of village sweetheart and let her know
it too before he met Laura Otway, but it
had not the ardor of true love; he had often
felt sorry that Miriam didn’t marry, but he
did not know (as men seldom ever do) that
she could never give herself to any other
man: such is woman’s love when once
given to her true mate, and yet Miriam had
never told of her constancy, it could only
be guessed by the magician's art, who un-
locks love’s secret cabinet and whispers
softly to the winds at night-time.
	Mrs. Barton fretted the live-long day,
she loved her husband, notwithstanding her
temper, and was proudly ambitious for her
son:—she wanted him to be a man of learn-
ing, high in the world’s favor; she cared lit-

