REPORT TO CONVENTION FEBRUARY 1894
   
	THE year 1893 was so much of it de-
voted to the Columbian Exposition that
there is less to report of actual suffrage
work. But we might truthfully say that
the entire tendency of all that was accom-
plished was in that direction. Utah may
be justly proud (among other things) of her
silk exhibit made in the Woman’s Building
at Jackson Park. This industry per-
manently established will help women in
the future to become self-supporting, and
will also be remunerative to the territory as
well as to the producer. Recently the com-
-mittee of women, who prepared the silk
exhibit for the World’s Fair, formulated a
petition and had it presented to the Leg-
slative Assembly (now in session) asking
for a bounty on cocoons, and a bill has also
been introduced urging the granting of the
same, the ladies having appeared before
committees where they had the opportunity
of speaking upon the matter as a woman’s
measure, which practically illustrates the
need of representation by means of votes as
well as influence.
	The interest taken by the women of the
territory in the work of the present Legisla-
ture clearly proves that they are becoming
conscious of the needs of the hour. In
several places the W. S. A. officers have
called a special meeting to consider ob-
jectionable bills, and have prepared and
adopted resolutions protesting against exces-
sive taxation and other things of which
they disapprove This public expression
of opinion shows that women are fully
awakened to the injustice of being governed
without their consent, and taxed without
representation.
	In consequence of the financial depres-
sion caused by the depreciation of silver
and subsequent closing of silver mines in
this Western country, women citizens in
Salt Lake City, called a mass meeting,
which was held July 27th, and prepared a
memorial to Congress and had it numerously
signed, setting forth the facts in an able
manner, and asking for favorable legisla-
tion on the silver question; the addresses
were patriotic and telling. This meeting,
which was crowded to overflowing, was in-
directly a step towards suffrage, for many
of those present realized how much more
potent the effort would have been had these
earnest women been voters. The foremost
women of the movement had never given
the question of the ballot any serious
thought.
	The women of Utah are powerless to a
certain extent, and cannot have the same
enthusiasm in the suffrage cause, knowing
that a law of Congress took away the fran-
chise, and therefore the Legislature, how-
ever willing, cannot restore it until Con-
gress revokes the act or Utah becomes a
state.
	The present Legislature has presented a
bill proposing that one or more women
(a minority) shall be appointed on boards of
education, insane asylums and reform in- 
stitutions. The bill passed the House and
is still pending in the council.
	October 5th the annual convention of the
W. S. A. of Utah and election of officers
was held, and Mrs. Sarah M. Kimball, the
very able and efficient President, resigned
on account of ill health. Mrs. E. B. Wells
was unanimously elected by ballot to fill the
vacancy. Mrs. Wells offered a resolution

