PRACTICAL EDUCATION.
				-----
	In our past, how limited has been the educa-
tional advantages of woman!  Book-learning
was supposed to have very little to do with the
requisite acquirements of the ideal housekeeper;
the masses really believing that "woman should
understand" only sufficient Geography to know
the different apartments in her house, and
enough Chemistry to keep the kettle boiling.’
How absurd!  If “knowledge is power” why
should not woman possess her full quota as
well as the sterner sex?  She who is entrusted
with the sacred responsibility of bearing the
souls of men, of ministering to the wants and
necessities of her household.  Is it not she who
must furnish their nutriment, not only to the


new-born infant, but 'tis she who must supply
the ever-recurring demands of the older and
stronger members of the family.  Truly the
most thorough housekeepers—the best wives
and mothers, are those who are best educated.
The true and correct idea of education, is obtain-
ing practical knowledge, knowledge that will
enhance our usefulness, and that will give to
ourselves the greatest degree of satisfaction.
An understanding that will enable us to look
beyond the surface of all animate and inanimate,
creation, whereby we may discern the elements
that compose those vital agencies so necessary
to our life and health on the earth.  Air, food
and drink.  That our children may be properly
clothed in all seasons of the year, and have
healthful nutritious food, pure water to drink
and an abundant supply of Oxygen in the air of
our dwelling houses.  How often does a want of
a deep and thorough knowledge of these simple
but all-important subjects, result in serious and
oftimes fatal consequences.
Then let our wives and daughters study, think
and reflect seriously, endeavor to restrain this
increasing love of adornment and pleasure,
wean our attention from the artifices of dress
and vanity to the more solid and practical ideas
of a true life, of a genuine, true womanhood.
Study the beautiful principles of chemistry,
physiology and anatomy; that our lives may be-
come more practically and intelligently useful.
							E. R. S.


