THE TEMPLES OF THE LORD.

	The Temples now being built to the Lord,
will be dedicated to him for his work to be
performed in, and will stand as monuments in
time and all eternity, showing forth a tangible
kingdom to be established in the last days upon
the earth. Although unfinished they stand
forth in grand relief in our mountain vales,
and no Latter-day Saint can look upon these
gigantic edifices without peculiar feelings of awe,
and sublimity, and as we read the words of
Solomon, when he built a house to the Lord,
he felt his weakness, so great was the magnitude
of the work for so great an end. Said Soloman
"But will God in very deed dwell with men on
the earth?" Behold heaven and the heaven
of heavens cannot contain thee: how much less
this house which I have built!" Solomon of-
fered up a most efficient prayer for the people
of the Lord, and the Lord appeared to Solo-

[Column 2]
﻿mon and said to him, "I have heard thy
prayers and have chosen this place to myself
for a house of sacrifice." He also made prom-
ises to Solomon in regard to curses that should
come upon the land on account of sin. The
dearth, locusts and pestilence. "Now mine
eyes shall be opened, and mine ears attent un-
to the prayer that is made in this place," 11
Chronicles chap. vii. One Temple was sufficient
in those days but now many are necessary, to
perform the work of the last days; and let us
be diligent in assisting to build our temples,
that our Father in heaven will commune with
us, and turn away our afflictions; the canker
worm, caterpillar, and all devouring insects, our
enemies, and all sin; that we may go into these
holy temples with clean hands, and pure hearts
and rejoice in the God of Israel, who has ac-
counted us worthy to build temples to his holy
name, wherein we can attend to the redemption
of our dead; open the prison doors and let the
captive free.
	"Behold I will send my messenger and he
shall prepare the way before me, and the Lord,
whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to his Tem-
ple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom
ye delight in: he shall come, with the Lord of
hosts." But who may abide the day of his
coming? Malachi chapter iii: "And I will
come near to you to judgment, and I will be a
swift witness against the sorcress, and against
the adulteress, and against false swearers, and
against those who oppress the hireling in his
wages, the widow, and the fatherless, and that
turn aside the stranger from his right, and fear
not me; saith the Lord of hosts." Also 5th
and 6th verses last chapter, "Behold I will send
you Elijah the prophet before the coming of
the great, and dreadful day of the Lord."
	"And he shall turn the hearts of the fathers
to the children, and the hearts of the children
to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth
with a curse."
	Many prayers were heard and answered in
the Temple at Jerusalem. Zacharias was pro-
mised a child the forerunner of Christ. Han-
nah was blessed by the high priest Eli, in the
house of the Lord, and had a son. Samuel
who was a mighty prophet was raised up in
that house. The Latter-day Saints have also
been blessed in the temples that have been
built, and many things made known by vision,
revelation, and the pure and the holy Spirit of
the Lord, has been poured out in great abund-
ance.
	What a great satisfaction it will be to those
who give their mite toward the great and noble
work, the building of the temples of the Lord
in the last days, to bring about God’s purposes
for the winding up scene.
						M. A. M. PRATT.
	Salt Lake City, Sep. 6th, 1881.


