NATURALIZATION AND REGISTRA-
			       TION.
				-----
	The first Monday in September, the District
Courts in Beaver and in Ogden, were both op-
ened so that all aliens who wished to take out
their naturalization papers, had the opportunity
by traveling to one or the other of these places.
Many persons went to these Court rooms from
different points, and availed themselves of  the
privilege of becoming citizens of the United
States. There has been a great neglect on the
part of those born in foreign countries, in taking
out their full papers, and it has seemed as if they
“were at ease in Zion,” not realizing the respon-
sibilities at Stake, in sustaining a republican
government in the Territory, as a part of the
great body politic.  But now the great need of
strength in numbers is apparent, it will perhaps
be different; and those who have been long en-
ough in the country, will have an ambition to
assist in maintaining the liberties and rights of
the people in the choice of officers to fill positions
of trust, in the Territory, as well as a delegate to
Congress.
	On the second Monday in September, by pro-
clamation of the Governor of Utah, the Third
District Court was opened in Salt Lake City,
which gave a great many the advantage of be-
coming naturalized, without taking a trip to
Ogden.  There should be no hesitancy on the
part of those who are entitled to such privelege
of fulfilling this duty; it is a sacred one, that
every man and every woman should feel bound
to respond to.  A duty each one owes to himself
or herself; a parent to his childron, and all owe
to the community in which they reside; to
help sustain law, order, and good government in
the land.
	A set of rules have been adopted by the Utah
Commission for the appointment and govern-
ment of registrars, and the conduct of registra-
tion and elections.  These rules have been ex-
tensively published, and probably carefully read,
discussed and commented upon.  In addition to
Rule 2 there is an oath attached, which each
person must take and subscribe to, before the
name of that individual can be placed on the
registration list.  This oath or affirmation is very
obnoxious in its wording; the phraseology of
it is such as any sensitive, delicate, pure-minded
woman would shrink from hearing, and nothing
but the sternest sense of duty could induce a
noble true woman to subscribe to it.  But brave
hearted women endure ignominy, scorn and in-
dignities for the sake of maintaining the right-
and God and their own conscience are their sup-
port and strength in any trying ordeal.  Jehovah
is for the right, and He alone is a great majority,
yet He requires every one to exercise his own
agency, in all matters pertaining to life here up-
on the earth.  He has endowed mankind liber-
ally with faculties and powers by which they
work out their own destinies, and this is in ac-
cordance with the true principles of all govern-
ment.
	Notwithstanding the oath which has to be
taken before one can register, many have al-
ready gone forward and accepted the conditions,
though feeling it a great injustice to be required
of them.  The words included in the test oath
"in the marriage relation” are exceedingly ob-
jectlonable; especially as the Edmund’s law it-
self does not specify such affirmation to be made.
It does look inconsistent that men and women
of the strictest purity of character, exemplary in
their lives in every respect, living in the highest
order of marriage, should be excluded from the
privilege of registering, and their names actually
erased from the list of voters, because of their
religious relations, even though in many instan-
ces they have been only spiritual and not in any
sense practical.  Yet the same rule is applied to
all, whether they have actually lived in the
principle or only received it in a spiritual form.
The practise of the world at large is not con-
sidered, men may live in such relations as they
like, if they do not marry, it is the actual cere-
mony that disfranchises American citizens.  It
is very galling to those who feel entitled to the
privileges of citizenship, to be debarred of the
exercise of the elective franchise; when they re-
alize the fact that some of the best blood of their
ancestry has been shed in defense of the liberty
of the country. Many of those disfranchised,
have all their lives been true and loyal patriots,
and more—have made this Territory habitable
by their hard labor and unremitting toil.
	The Edmund’s law has been differently inter-
preted by the Commissioners, who framed the
oath of affirmation, from what it was understood
previously, either by Mormons or non-Mormons.
This rendering of its meaning has made some
dissatisfaction, as those who have not violated
the law of 1862, against what is termed bigamy
or polygamy, would, had it not been for this oath,
have been permitted to register.  But according
to the present regulation even a suspicion, a
rumor which fails confirmation, is taken as
evidence that some private cerremony had
taken place away back in Nauvoo, or somewhere
else; though the other party to the transaction
has been dead many years.  Again a woman
whose husband has forsaken her and his family,
and cast her off, and lives with another woman
without marriage of any sort is permitted to
register.  Can such things be, and how can they
be reconciled with the principles of freedom and
religious liberty?  If the people’s party in Utah
will stand together, and each one do his duty in
the midst of the opposition brought to bear,
there need be no fear whatever of losing the
election.
	Some difficulty has arisen in regard to the re-
gistering of women citizens, and there is a dis-
position manifested to reject votes of women
altogether, this point will be carefully guarded,
and argued in open court; the commissioners
having previously decided that women were
eligible, under the statute, to exercise the right
of franchise.  It would be a most flagrant act of
injustice to take away this right after twelve
years experience without any difficulty having
arisin in consequence of woman suffrage.


