A REPRESENTATIVE WOMAN.
				------
	      MARY ISABELLA HORNE.
				------
			   Continued.
	A rather remarkable period in Mrs. Horne’s
history, dates a little previous to the events re-
corded in the last chapter. We designate it as
remarkable because it was the initiatory step
in the direction of public life, which has led to
many other things, all of these tending to give
her publicity and influenc in woman's depart-
ment of the spiritual labor in the Chruch. It is
well known to most of our readers that the
Relief Society was organized by the Prophet
Joseph in Nauvoo, Ill. The subject of this
sketch was a member of that organization.
When the Bishops organized in the various
wards and settlements, in the valleys of the
mountains, sometime after the return of the
people from the move to Provo, in the time of
Johnson's army, or as it is generally termed
the "Echo canyon war," Mrs. Horne was
chosen by Bisop A. Hongland of the 14th,
Ward Salt Lake City, to preside over the
branch of Relief Society in that ward.  This
took place on the 12th of December 1867. It
was a great surprise to the lady to be elected
to that position. Although a woman of great
force of character and endurance, she was
thoroughly domestic in her manner and habits,
and anything like notoriety was distasteful and
foreign to her nature. However she deter-
mined not to shrink from any responsiblity
placed upon her under the authority of the
priesthood, but to trust in God to help her
overcome her diffidence and fear of speaking in
public. Sister Eliza often refers to her being
so very timid that she could not vote in the 
members of the Society, without being sup-
ported by leaning on other sisters.  To see her
now stand up in the congregations of the Saints,
and hear  words of instruction which flow
from her  lips, one could scarcely creit that
she was ever so afraid of her own voice. Mrs.
Horne is particularly  in Scriptural
quotations.  She has mae the Bible a special
study, and her references are a very great help
to her in speaking, and more than supply the
want of language of which she sometimes com-
plains, though her hearers never think of it.
She has the gift of concentration which is
always good in a peaker or writer; she speaks
to the point and her reasoning is forcible and
clear.
	Mrs. Horne’s first Counselors in the Relief
Society were, Susan H. Wilkinson and Will-
mirth East, and subsequently Mrs. Elimna S.
Taylor was appointed Secretary and Jane
Richardson, Treasurer; under the wise and
judicious management of the President the
Society increased in numbers and not only was
great good accomplished in the relief of the
poor and afflicted, but means multiplied in the
treasury through prudent and careful financier-
ing.  A very good substantial two story-brick
building has been erected by the Society, one
part of which is rented for a store, and the up-
per story used for meetings, and other purposes
in the same connection.  The Society also own
a good granary, and have quite a large quantity
of wheat stored away. We have not space in
our columns to enumerate all the good work
which has been done in the Society under Mrs.
Horne's direction, but certainly she has proved
herself a faithful stewardess, as the Secretary's
record will show.  Mrs. Horne's success as a
leader was so apparent and her course so con-
sistent, that she was soon looked up to as an
example, and Pres. Young had such confidence
in her ability, that he gave her a very import-
ant mission among the sisters; this was called
retrenchment; he called upon her in Gunnison
when she was there on a visit to her son Jos-
eph, who was at that time Bishop of that place.
He told her to lead out in a more economical
way of living, of dressing and so forth; she
scarcely understood at the time what the labor
was to which he assigned her, but on her return
home she laid the matter before "Sister Eliza,"
whom the sisters recognize as the Elect Lady,
and told her of the mission from Pres. Young:
subsequently she called with Sister Eliza to see
ther President; and learn what could be done to
carry out his counsel in the matter. President
Young's advice was for them to hold meetings
on the subject of retrenchment, in table
etiquette, courses, style, etc., and in dress; hav-
ing their garments plain and modest, instead
of so many ruffles, flounces and furbelows, and
spend more time in moral, mental and spiritual
cultivation, and less upon fashion and the
vanities of the world. Accordingly Mrs.
Horne prepared an entertainment at her own
house, the table being set in a simple style
with plain food, and several Presidents of Re-
lief Societies were present,  Some good coun-
sel was given and the way seemed more
clear towards putting in practice the sugges-
tions. A meeting was appointed for the next
week in the 15th Ward school house, and from
there adjourned to the 14th Ward Assembly
Rooms, and from that time until the present
Mrs. Horne has presided at these regular semi-
monthly meetings of the Ladies General Re-
trenchment Associations.  She makes an excel-
lent President, has great dignity of character,
and is perfectly equal to the position she has so
long occupied.
	When Pres. Young instructed Sister Eliza.
to go through the Territory and organize the
young ladies, into Associations, for mutual
benefit and improvement, Mrs. Horne was
called to assist in the work of organizing. She
has organized and reorganized many of the
Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions, in the Church, and at a more recent date
has also organized Primary Associations in
several places; and visits from time to time,
in all parts of the country, traveling among
the peopl, teaching and encouraging them in
the paths of light, and knowledge and advance-
ment. Her mission among women is a very
important one, and she takes up her work sys-
tematically, and allows no selfish interest to
come between her and the discharge of any
public service.
	At the time of the passage of the Cullom
Bill, in January 1876, a grand mass meeting
was called to convene in the Old Tabernacle,
Salt Lake City. It was a sort of indignation
meeting, and Mrs. Horne took an active part
in the proceedings, being one of the committee
appointed to draft resolutions. It was a re-
markable woman's rights movement, and the
expression of sentiments by Mormon women
was pronounced and free. Mrs. Horne also ad-
dressed the audience a few moments on the
questions before the house at that memorable
woman’s convention. In February following
the bill was passed, granting woman suffrage to
the women of Utah. Seven days after the
sisters met in their general meeting in the 14th
Ward, when most of the wards of the city were
represented, and a few ladies were selected as a
Committee to wait upon acting Governor Mann,
and express to him the gratitude of Mormon
women for his signing the document, granting
them the suffrage in Utah. Mrs. Horne was
selected as one of that Committee; and from
that time she has ever taken the greatest in-
terest in the subject of woman's voting. She
has never missed an opportunity of exercising
her privilege in this regard. She has always
been regular in attending the Primary meet-
ings in the precinct where she resides, and has
been elected a member of the County Central
Committee.
	Once or twice her name has been proposed
as Justice of the Peace, but the statute law of
Utah, still hinders woman from holding any
office of emolument or trust. Every thing
that women can do to prepare themselves to
aid in the political elevation of the sex Mrs.
Horne has sought diligently to do.  Strong-
minded she certainly is, and her reasoning up-
on woman's position is always sound and forc-
ible. Yet she is motherly and gentle, and no
one can say there is anything inconsistent with
womanly delicacy in her manner or bearing,
disproving altogether the theory of the oppos-
ers of political equality, who argue that it
makes woman mosculine, bold and forward, to
vote and to speak in public, and that they neg-
lect home and family.
		To be Continued.


A DISPATCH from Omaha 13 inst. states
that the Woman’s Suffrage Convention was
largely  attended, by prominent advocates.
Sixty-eight delegates from twelve states and
territories were on the platform.


