PROMISES.
		--

	"Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the
Kingdom of Heaven."

	Blessed are they who hunger and thirst after righteous-
ness, for they shall be fill'd.
									Jesus. 

Not to the proud, who have boundless possessions--
	Not to the mighty, the world favor'd throng--
Not unto those who have all of earth's blessings--
	Doth the kingdom of God and its glory belong.

Nay, hardly the wealthy, God's kingdom can enter.
	Their friends and position so much from them
		claim;
So much  do their thoughts in appearances centre
	They care not the kingdom of God to sustain.

Yet wealth is a boon, if but wisely we use it;
	Yea, wealth doth accomplish commendable things;
But when in our pride for display, we abuse it--
	Instead of a blessing, destruction it brings.

But unto the humble, the lowly of spirit--
	Shall riches abiding, and comfort be given;
Rejoice! Oh, ye poor ones, 'tis yours to inherit
	In fullness and glory, "The kingdom of Heaven."

Ye that thirst, and that faint for the life-giving waters,
	Who for righteousness hunger, midst sorrow and
		strife;
	Rejoice! God doth count you his sons and his daught-
		ers--
	Ye shall satisfied be, with the manna of life?

Ye yet shall be fill'd unto copious o'erflowing;
	The spirit of truth shall your bosoms inspire;
Your blessings shall be of your Father's bestowing,
	"Your souls shall be touched" and be warm'd as
		with fire.

And ye who have mourn'd over many offences--
	Enduring in hope, God's salvation to see--
Rejoice and be glad, for the Lord, your defence is,
	He wills that the honest, his people shall be.

Rejoice and be glad, yet with spirits repentant--
	'Gainst the sins that beset us, each on must contend;
Thus your souls shall be filled with the sweetest con-
		tentment--
	For the honest and humble, have God for their friend.

From the depths, He can lift you to glory and glad-
		ness:
	Can darkness dispel, by ineffable light;
He can banish the woes that o'erwhelm you with sad-
		ness,
	And scatter the clouds, were they blacker than 
		night.

Who can limit his love? His munificence measure?
	His compassion exhuast? or his purpose conceive?
"He sees not as man," 'tis his infinite pleasure--
	That the meek and the poor shall his kingdom re-
		ceive.

His gifts and his grace, God hath promised the lowly,
	That the feeble and faint, consolation may drink;
He gives not the proud what is sacred and holy;
	Nor leaves those who love him to helplessly sink.
					EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City.


