VISIT TO BEAVER.

	Wednesday Afternoon August 30, in com-
pany with Mrs. M. I. Horne, we left the city to
visit Beaver Stake of Zion, in the interest of
woman's organizations, the Deseret Hospital,
the elective franchise, and such matters as per-
tain to those interests. At Milford Mrs. Horne's
Brother, George Hales, of Beaver, met us with
a conveyance and we rode on to Minersville,
where we dined with the Relief Society Presi-
dent, Mrs. Grundy. Then proceeded direct to
Beaver, and arrived at Mrs. Sarah M. Dell's at 6
o'clock Thursday evening, where we were enter-
tained in the most hospitable manner, although
during our stay there we were constantly go-
ing from place to place among the people;
and every where were most cordially wel-
comed.
	On Friday morning, Sept. 1, the Conference
commenced in the Meeting House in Beaver
City, Mrs. Lucinda Houd presiding. Pres.
Murdock was on the stand, and several of the
leading brethren and bishops of that Stake.
The reports, both written and verbal, from the
different branches of the R. S., were very good
indeed; and the meeting was addressed briefly
by the sisters from Salt Lake, and also Mrs.
Lucinda Houd, and President Murdock.
	At 2 P. M. the Conference convened again,
and Sisters Wells, Horne, Tyler and Dell,
each made some remarks. Elder Wm. Fother-
ingham also occupied a short time in speaking.
Conference adjourned for six months.
	After meeting we visited the Primary Fair,
which was opened in the Relief Society Hall,
where we saw a nice display of the childrens'
work. It would be impossible to enumerate
all the articles, but some of the most noticable.
An elegant tidy, Lillie Murdock; wool mat;
Clara Slaughter; elegant worked book-mark,
Katie Slaughter; pair wool mats, Jennie Gillis
embroidered handkerchief, Melia White; Mary
Ann Limb, handsome silk-lined work basket,
2 tidies; crochet lace, Hattie Anderson; home-
made straw hat, very fine and pretty, Sarah
May Coleman; home-knit stockings, Julia
Farnsworth; wool mat, Harriet Mumford;
puzzle pincushion, Henrietta Schofield; ingeni-
ous picture frame of burrs, Hattie Fathering-
ham; wool mats, Jane Anderson and Annie
Davey; 2 pairs handsome openwork stockings,
Mary A. Tolton; wool mats, May Belle Fother-
ingham; picture frame, Clara Fotheringham;
one jar preserved apples, May Ashworth; cor-
nucopia, Lettie Limb, four years old. Mary
A. Law, very pretty needle-book; Louisa Fer-
rar, very nice loaf of bread; Mary Ferrar, but-
ter; Sarah Ellen Fotheringham, child's dress
of home-made cloth; quilts nicely pieced and
quilted, by the Primary children; mottoes of
all varieties worked by the children; Rhoda
J. Shephard, five years old, match safe; Laura
Ashworth, card-case; Sarah E. Law, card re-
ceiver; Lizzie Ward, five years old, pincushion;
Edith Slaughter cornucopia; Alice Robinson,
crochet mat; Hattie Mumford, daisy mats;
Mary Ashworth, large ornamented cornucopia;
Julia E. Shephard handsome needle book;
wool mat, variety of colors, Annie Davey; 2
cradle-quilts, Mona Schofield, Sarah Hutchins.
Baby's wool sacque home-made. The ten com-
mandments and the Lord's Prayer, elaborately


worked and framed. From the boy's, crook-
necked squashes, table, cupboard, ladder, and
lots of other things.
	In the evening there was a general meeting
for the young people, and all were invitted.
The meeting was a full one, many young peo-
ple of both sexes were present, and the remarks
of the sisters were calculated to inspire them,
with earnestness and zeal in the work of
improvement.
	On Saturday at 10 o'clock the Conference of
Y. L. M. I. A., convened Mrs. Mary E. Ash-
worth presiding. Minutes and reports were
read and verbal reports given. Besides the
ladies from Salt Lake, Mrs. M. E. Ashworth, and
Pres. Murdock, and Mrs. L. Houd, addressed
the Conference. In the afternoon the Prim-
ary Conference was held Mrs. Jane Gillis pre-
siding. There were a few exercises very well
rendered by the children. There were paesent
on the stand Apostle F. M. Lyman, Pres.
Hinckley of Millard Stake, Elders Wm. Rob-
inson of Fillmore, and Hon. Edward Dalton of
Iron County. Elder Lyman made some inter-
esting remarks, after the ladies had finished
speaking. Conference adjourned for six
months.
	On Monday we left Beaver early and held
meeting with the Primary Association at
Greenville, at 9 A. M. Mrs. Jane Edwards
presiding; the children, about fifty in number,
were orderly and manifested much interest.
At 10, the Relief Society met, and the children
were dismissed. Mrs. Ann Richards presiding
over the meeting, which was an interesting
one. After partaking of a bountiful dinner at
Bishop Lillywhite's, we went on to Adamsville.
Met with the Primary Association at 2 P. M.
Mrs. Ann Gunn presiding.
	At 3 P. M. the Relief Society convened,
Mrs. Ann Jones presiding. From there we
drove on to Minersville, and met with the
young people in the evening, Mrs. Lydia Black-
burn presiding. There was quite a large audi-
ence and the meeting was an interesting one.
The next morning at 9 o'clock, the Primary
Association met and had a very interesting
meeting, Mrs. Lydia Blackburn presiding. At
10 the Relief Society, met Mrs. Bathsheba B.
Grundy presiding.
	We found the Relief Societies in good work-
ing order, but the sisters were hungering for
instruction in their several duties from some
persons, who were constantly in a position to
comprehend the needs of the hour. We left
Minersville about 2 P. M. on Thursday, and
arrived in Salt Lake at 10, on Wednesday
morning. Mrs. Horne stopped off at Deseret, to
visit her daughter, and met with the Relief
Society and Associations in that place. We
shall remember with pleasure our visit to Bea-
ver Co.,and the liberality of the people in con-
tributing to the Deseret Hospital.


