	BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

In looking over  letters written by my
parents, during the days of my childhood, I
find recorded many a forgotten incident; some
of which are pleasing, and others painful to
dwell upon-bringing back the love and the
joy, the pain  the sorrows, that were shared
by them who have, long since, passed to a
haven of rest, where there are no more tears,
nor anguish and where the tears of death can
never come.
	One reminiscence serves to revive another,
and among other incidents is the following
which I will relate, with the hope that it may
prove beneficial to my young sisters, as it
came very near ending my earthly existence.
I believe it was in the early part of March in
1842; at all events my father and mother had
gone down to Quincy and left a young woman
with us, to take charge of matters and things
while they were gone. Before they returned
my eldest brother and myself were invited to
attend an evening party in the neighborhood
where we first settled, when the place was
called Commerce. Laying off my winter
clothing I put on a lawn dress and cotton
stockings, and thin slippers in the place of
boots, never giving a thought that it could
hurt me. I was wrapped in a good shawl but
as we drove in an open carriage, the cold bleak
wind pierced through to my vitals, and the
consequence was that I was thrown into
what was considered a quick consumption,
from which there was but little hope of my
recovery, though I was kept in ignorance of
my true condition until after the danger was
over. I was not sick in bed, but I looked
like a walking ghost, and it took but a few
steps to exhaust what little strength I had.
No pains were spared and nothing that affection
could prompt, or faith and skill accomplish
that was left untried, though I sometimes
noticed their anxious and careworn looks.
Early one morning in the Fall of the year
my father had William hitch up his horse and
buggy and take me up to the Temple, where
he met us. He took me to the Font under the
Temple into which the water had been pumped
the day before and there baptized me for my
health, which I regained more rapidly from
that time.


[Column 1]
 ﻿He was in the habit of taking me out riding
nearly every day, and soon after this he had
occasion to go quite a distance out on the
prairie to take Miss Lawrence home, who had
been doing some sewing for us. This was
Sarah Lawrence, who was sealed to the Prophet
Joseph. Father took me with them, and
though it looked a little cloudy when we
started, he thought wo could get back before
it would rain; but we had barely  got started
for home when it commenced raining. Father
put the umbrella over me, and told me to
hold it closely over myself and not mind him.
The thunder and lightning were terrific and
the wind blew and the rain poured in perfect
torrents, there was no house and not even a
tree to seek shelter under. He was really
frightened about me and drove as fast as it was
possible for the horse to run. We soon
reached Brother Winchester’s house, which was
near the outskirts of the town, but not before
our cloths were drenched through. Father
gave me into the charge of Sister Winchester
who gave me something warming, and I was
soon clad in some dry clothing, as well as him-
self. We remained there till the storm was over
and when we went home the roads were washed
smooth and we found that a heavy freshet had
passed over the lower part of the City.
 My father’s prayers and faith prevailed in
my behalf, for I never felt the least bad effect
from the exposure, which was truly miraculous.
This true story may prove, not only a warning
but a faith-promoter to our young friends, who
may chance to read it. 	
 There is another little incident which I had
missed jotting down in the right place. It
was near the first of June 1843, just previous
to my father’s starting East, that the Prophet
called and invited him to ride with him and
William Clayton, his private clerk, as he was
going around to give invitations to his friend,
to take a pleasure trip with him down to
Quincy, in the little “Nauvoo” boat which,
previous to its being purchased, was called
“Maid of Iowa.” I was also invited to go
along. As we drove up the river a Steamer
was just landing, and a number of strange
gentlemen came ashore, who seemed to have
quite a curiosity to see the Prophet. He got
out, and in his warm and genial way, gave
each of them a cordial shake of the hand. As
the carriage was about starting away, one of
them came up and, after being introduced by
President Smith, requested the privilege of
riding. After going a few rods the carriage
was stopped for him to get out. He wished to
have it to say that he had rode with Joseph
Smith, whom they styled the “American
Mahomet.”
 Our babe being very sick prevented my
parents from going and I went with my brother.
It was a lovely June morning, and animated
with the lovely airs, played by William Pitt’s
Bras band, every heart was made glad, and
every thing looked bright and hopeful for the
excursionists, as we started on the little Steamer
bound for Quincy.
 We had a most enjoyable trip down, took
dinner, with others, at the house of the widow
of Dr. F. G. Williams and his son Ezra, who
were old Kirtland friends. Joseph and his
wife Emma, and a score of his old, as well as
young, friends were made welcome by others
in that city. But on our return trip a heavy
thunder storm came up, and Judge Elias
Higbee being taken very ill we were obliged
to stop over night at Keokirk. The cabin
was small and the Judge being so sick the
majority stayed on deck, where we sat all night;
umbrellas being our only protection from the
beating storm. The heat had been very ex-
cessive, and being thinly] clad, many were
made sick, and I was among that number.
Judge Higbee continued to grow worse, and
only lived a few days after his return home.

[Column 2]	
 The Prophet, who was noted for his tender
sympathies towards the afflicted, could not rest
until he went around and informed himself of
the condition of each one who had accompanied
him to Quincy, and offer advice and some he
administered to. The morning of the second
day after our return, he called at our house.
He recommended some medicine to be given
me that night, and then turning to me said:
“To-morrow morning you take for your break-
fast only a cup of coffee and a piece of dry
bread, and you shall be well.” His counsel
was strictly adhered to, and the result was pre-
cisely as he had predicted.
 Before leaving us to go East my father
gave to his children (six in number) their
Patriarchal blessing, brother William Clay ton
acting as scribe. Father was very anxious
that mother should go with him and spend a
little time with their relatives; but she could
hardly make up her mind to leave home. She
accompanied him as far as Quincy. He wrote
three or four letters while on his way to Pitts-
burg, and a few extracts from their correspond-
ence may be of interest to others beside myself.
The following was written by my mother, and
directed to Philadelphia, as he was to have
been there, but unexpectedly he was detained
in Pittsburg. This was dated “June 27th,1843.
 My dear companion:— I received your
precious letter, and parcel sent by Brother
Smith. * * Gladly do I retire from the
busy cares of life to spend a few moments in
talking to you in this silent way. * * If I
could but see you for a few moments, how
much easier I could unbosom my feelings, but
yet I am thankful that we have this privilege
of conveying our thoughts to each other. I
have read your letter over and over, and my
eyes have been almost blinded with tears—the
feelings expressed therein are worth more to
me than worlds would be without them; for
nothing could make me happy without your
favor. It is one week last, Sunday since I
closed a letter to you. Brother Brigham then
expected to start the next day. * * There
are many changing scenes * * one moment
our bosoms may beat high with anticipation,
and the next be thrown into confusion. At
present there is great excitement in the city. 
Brigham told me this morning that he did not
much expect to go; said Joseph had sent word
to him not to go any way until he saw him. I
am thankful that you got away before the fuss.
I feel as though you were more safe than you
would be here. Oh that I could be with you!
I sometimes feel as though I had been foolish
and would never let another such an opportun-
ity pass without going with you. * I should
not wish to go, unless I could go with you clear
to the sea shore; but I need not talk abont it
now, for there is no telling where our lot will
be cast next, things look rather gloomy here at
present, but I believe good will come out of
evil. I will not attempt to tell you about
Joseph’s arrest, as Brother Hadlock, the bear-
er of this letter, can tell you all about it. *
 Since writing the above, I have had a visit
from brother Parley P. Pratt and his wife.
They are truly converted. It appears that
Joseph has taught him the principle and told
him his privilege, and even appointed one (a
wife for him. * * She has been to me for
counsel. I told her I did not wish to advise in
such matters. Sister Pratt told me that she
had been railing against these things until
within a few days past, she said the Lord had
shown her that it was all right, and wants
Parley to go ahead, says she will do all in her
power to help him. * * They asked me
many questions on principle. I told them I
did not know much, I’d rather they would go
to those that had authority to teach. Parley
said he and Joseph were interrupted before
he got what instruction he had wanted, and
now he did not know when he should have an,

[Column 3]
opportunity. * I told him that these were
sacred things, and he had better not make a
move until he got more instruction. * *
Sarah Noon is here and sends her love to you.
My daily prayer is that you may finish your
mission with honor, and be returned to our
embraces. * * I think you had better des-
troy this as soon as you can after reading it.
I should not dare to send it by mail, but I
trust it will go safe. If Brother Brigham
should go I will write again by him. I am as
ever, Your affectionate wife.
Vilate Kimball”
 This is another proof that the Prophet
Joseph revealed the plural wife system.
 The following I gather from the second
letter written by my father from Pittsburg.
The first was written to me, which has been
published. This one was to my mother, and
was dated July 15th. He wrote that he and
brethren had been there a fortnight, waiting
for President B. Young, who they were look-
ing anxiously for. He continued to suffer
much from his lungs, in consequence of the
smoke from burning coal in that place; after
having a very severe attack of influenza and
cholera-morbus, which had reduced him so low
that he was hardly able to sit up, and could
only write a few lines at a time. He wrote,
“The Saints have been very good and kind.
The people here are mostly Dutch and Irish;
but very few have come out to hear us preach,
as Elder Page has whipt the Sects so, in his
preaching, they will not come  out to hear.
I do wish the Elders would stop it and take a
mild course, and preach the Gospel as they
have been commanded of the Lord, and ad-
vised by Brother Joseph and the Twelve. *
I shall leave next week if Brigham comes.
I want to go ahead and do what we can in
order to get through before cold weather
comes on. * * I have heard Brother Joseph
is again clear from his enemies. I wish they
could let him alone. * * 
 It seems sometimes as though I could not be
absent from my friends and those I so dearly
love, but this will not do. I must labor for
my Father in order that he may provide a
home not made with hands, but eternal in
the heavens. * For this I am willing to
suffer privation, and to wear myself out, and
to lay down my life, should it be necessary to
do so. My mind has been very fruitful in the
things of God, most of the time since I left
you in Quincy, till I was taken sick. My
whole soul is bound up in the cause of Christ,
and my prayer is daily that I may be a savior
of men and a comfort to the human family;
but I see, when I have done the best I can,
that I am a poor imperfect creature. I wish
that I had more wisdom, more light, more
paitence and more religion, and every thing
that is good and calculated to make my friends
happy, both in time and in eternity. * 
O, that little babe, kiss him for me, and the
rest of our dear children, and tell them to
write me how they get along. * I want you
to read this to Sarah and Sister Billings, who I
hold as one of my bosom friends. A friend
in these days is more precious than gold, and
I esteem her as a mother in Israel, and she
has my prayers and blessing. We are in a
critical place but be of good cheer, my dear
friends, for I esteem you as such in every
sense of the word, and may the Lord bless
you with peace forever and ever, amen.”
To be Continued.


