CHILDRENS FAIR.
				-----
	On the 16th and 17th of August the two
Primary Associations of Centerville united their
efforts in a Primary Fair. Mrs. Rebecca Porter
taking charge.  There were three tables—one
for produce of the boys' own raising—one for
little girls' needle work—and one for fancy work.
There was also another one which was set for
dinner, by the Primary girls under 14 years of
age, and all the cooking was done by the little
girls; jellies, pickles, fresh and preserved fruits


bread, butter, cakes, etc.--one very handsomely
ornamented cake--and all the articles of the
best quality. Bishop Cheney and wife and Br.
Reeves and wife and the officers of both Primary
Associations were invited to dinner. The tables
were tastefully ornamented with flowers and
fruits, and the walls were decorated with mot-
toes and pictures. There was one very beauti-
ful, being the Lord's prayer cut in wood and set
on black velvet ground, made by Master John-
nie Whittaker. It was very artistic and hand-
some. There was a great variety of hair work,
one handsome wreath by a little girl nine years
old. The boys tried to excel in vegetables, and
succeeded in bringing forward very fine speci-
mens of all the varieties one could think of
There were some stock and fowls, rabbits,
pigeons and sheep. Two lambs raised by Mas-
ter David Chase, which he had raised wholly
himself, were very fine. One little boy made a 
perfect miniature hay-rack, another a cupboard
with glass doors; then there were little wooden
tables, rakes, shovels, etc. One boy had a sack
of flour on exhibition, his own work at his
father's mill. Master Byron Kesler, aged 14,
had on exhibition teeth he had drawn, and a
full set made by himself.
	There were a number of ladies from other
parts of the County. Mrs. A. S. Rogers, Mrs.
Mary S. Clark and others who came to see the
Fair and encourage the children. The officers
most actively engaged in the labor were Mrs.
Rebecca Porter, Misses Frankie Randall, Kate
Chase and Emily Porter.


