					M.F.C. MORRISON.


[Column 1]
	Amanda Malvina Hammond, daughter of
Benjamin and Almeda Hammond, was born
May 6, 1827, Town of Penobscot, Maine. Joined
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 
when very young, was united in marriage to 
Harrison Burgess in Nauvoo, Feb. 6, 1846. She
shared the persecutions, and was driven with
the Saints from that place; emigrated to Utah
performing that hard and tedious journey in 
company with Sophia M. Burgess, her husband's
wife, the companion of their destiny, leaving
them in June, 1848, to go on a mission to Eng-
land. She resided in Salt Lake City from that
date until called South, in the fall of 1862, when
with her husband and family she settled in Pine
Valley, Washington County; until July 17, 1882.
At that time she went to Provo to be treated by
Dr. Riggs, celebrated for his treatment of cancers; 
while there erysipelas in the head set in (of
which disease she had had a severe attack the
Winter previous.) and died August 8, 1882, hav-
ing been there about three weeks; during which
time she had received every care and attention,
from the Dr. and his family, and her untiring
faithful nurse, Mrs. Smith, daughter of the late
Bishop Duke. Her remains were prepared for
burial, and placed in a Metallic Coffin, accom-
panied by her husband and eldest son was
placed on  cars, and brought to Pine Valley,
where they arrived on the 12 Aug. 5 o'clock a.m.
37 hours from Provo. 
	On Sunday 13 ins. at 2 p.m. her remains were
carried to the Meeting House by her sons and 
friends, followed by her beloved husband and
family, the Relief Society, the Y. M. M., and
Young Ladies, and Primary Associations. The
speakers for the occasion were, Bishop F. W. 
Jones, Robert Gardner Sen., Robert L. Lloyd
and Harrison Burgess. The remarks were very
appropriate, comforting and consoling, to the
family and friends of the deceased. The remains
were taken to Cemetery followed by a large con-
course of people in wagons, and interred by the
side of her three children, two of whom had been
buried within the last eight months. She was
the mother of 11 children, and 24 grandchildren. 
She leaves a husband, and 8 children 4 sons and
4 daughters, and a numerous circle of relatives
and friends, to mourn her loss. She was truly a 
faithful Mother in Israel, a true Latter-day
Saint, and a firm believer in all the principles of 
this great Latter-day work. A short time before
her demise, she bore a faithful testimony, with
the sisters of the Relief Society, of which Society
she had been Second Counselor since April 1, 
1877. She expressed gratitude to her Heavenly
Father, that she had been privileged to raise her
family in the celestial order of marriage, that
her footsteps had been led and guided by Provi-
dence, out of the paths of the wicked and un-
godly, and planted on a sure foundation, felt if
she lived, she was in the hands of the Lord, and
if she died she was also in his hands. Exhorted
her sisters to faithfulness and diligence, to unity
and endurance to the end. Surely her life and
character is worthy of imitation.
	S. M. Burgess and E. M. Jones, Committee.
			--------------
	DIED: At Croyden, Morgan Co. July 15, 1882. 
Sarah Ann Storer. Deceased was born Dec  21st,
1820, in Nottingham, England. Embraced the
Gospel in 1850, emigrated to Utah 1872. She
has filled the office as Teacher in the Relief So-
ciety since its first organization in this Ward;
and has been faithful in the performance of her
duties, when her health permitted. She was a 
regular attendant at our meetings, and was ever
ready to testify to the truth of the work she had
embraced.
	The disease which terminated her life was 
cancer in the back of the neck, from which she

[Column 2]
had suffered for nineteen years. She died in the
full hope of a glorious resurrection.
	Sister Storer was the mother of eight children, 
six boys and two girls, all of whom are yet 
living. 
		HELEN THACKERAY, President.
		ELIZABETH BLACKWELL, Sec'y.
	Croyden Relief Society.

DIED: In Ovid, Bear Lake Co. Idaho, Aug
4th, 1882, after an illness of three months, Car-
oline Mathilda Petersen, was born in Denmark
Aug. 10th, 1853, and emigrated to Utah in 1863. 
She was set apart as President of the Y. L. M.
I. Association, when it was organized here three
years ago, and has faithfully preformed her
duties, until death called her. She leaves a hus-
band, three children and a large circle of friends
to mourn her loss. 
	Whereas, God has seen fit to take from our
midst our beloved President--Resolved, that we
the members of the Y. L. M. I. A., do sincerly
mourn her loss, and extend our heartfelt sym-
pathy, to her husband and family in their great
bereavement.
	MARY JENEEN and NETTIE S. JONES, Coun-
selors. Ovid Relief Society.
	(Deseret News please copy.)

	DIED: In North Morgan, Utah August 6, 1882
Elizabeth S. C. Grover, wife of Thomas Grover. 
and daughter of Martin and Adelgenda Heiner,
Deceased was born in Pennsylvania, April 4, 
1848. She leaves a family of seven children one
infant six hours old, at the time of her death.
She was a noble and affectionate woman, a thor-
ough Latter-day Saint. A good wife and tender
mother, faithful in every position in life. As a
member of the Relief Society she was beloved
and respected by all with whom she was associ-
ated in her labors. She was a favorite among
her friends, and the feelings of those who are
called to part with her cannot be expressed in
words. We desire to extend our sincere sym-
pathy to the bereaved family, the young hus-
band and father, the little children thus de-
prived of a  mother's loving care, and the aged
father and mother, but we know she has gone to
a better home, where sickness and death cannot
enter, and where all tears are wiped away. May
our Heavenly Father soften this great affliction
to those so sorely grieved at her loss, and may
they be able to say "The Lord giveth and the
Lord taketh away, blessed be the name of the 
Lord.
	Elizabeth Worlton, Sec'y. R. S. North Mor-
gan.
			-------------------------


