	LIB. VI. CAP. XIX.

	[ I have thought it best to have this transla-
tion made in the most literal manner, that the
reader may have a correct idea of the strange
mixture of simplicity, approaching to childishness
and moral sublimity, which belongs to the or-
iginal. It is the product of the twilight of civil-
ization.]
	"My beloved daughter, very dear little dove,
you have already heard and attended to the
words which your father has told you. They
are precious words, and such as are rarely
spoken or listened to, and which have pro-
ceeded from the bowels and heart in which they
have been treasured up; and your beloved
father well knows that you are his daughter,
begotton of him, are his blood, and his flesh;
and God our Lord knows that it is so.  Al-
though you are a woman, and are the image of
your father, what more can I say to you than
has already been said?  What more can you
hear than what you have heard from your lord
and father?  Who has fully told you what it is
becoming for you to do and to avoid; nor is
there anything remaining, which concerns you,
that he has not touched upon.  Nevertheless,
that I may do towards you my whole duty, I
will say to you some few words.—The first thing
that I earnestly charge upon you is, that you
observe and do not forget what your father has
now told you, since it is all very precious; and
persons of his condition rarely publish such
things; for they are the words which belong
to the noble and wise,—valuable as rich jewels,


[Column 1]
See, then, that you take them and lay them up
in your heart, and write them in your bowels.
If God gives you life, with these same words
will you teach your sons and daughters, if God
shall give you them.—The second thing that I
desire to say to you is, that I love you much,
that you are my dear daughter. Remember
that nine months I bore you in my womb, that
you were born and brought up in my arms. I
placed you in your cradle, and in my lap, and
with my milk I nursed you. This I tell you, in
order that you may know that I and your
father are the source of your being; it is we
who now instruct you. See that you receive
our words, and treaesure them in your breast.
—Take care that your garments are such as
are decent and proper; and observe that you
do not adorn yourself with much finery, since
this is a mark of vanity and of folly. As little
becoming is it, that your dress should be very
mean, dirty, or ragged; since rags are a mark
of the low, and of those who are held in con-
tempt. Let your clothes be becoming and neat,
that you may neither appear fantastic nor mean.
When you speak, do not hurry your words from
uneasiness, but speak deliberately and calmly.
Do not raise your voice very high, nor speak
very low, but in a moderate tone. Neither
mince, when you speak, nor when you salute,
nor speak through your nose; but let your
words be proper, of a good sound, and your
voice gentle. Do not be nice in the choice of
your words. In walking, my daughter, see
that you behave becomingly, neither going with
haste, nor too slowly; since it is an evidence of
being puffed up, to walk too slowly, and walk-
ing hastily causes a vicious habit of restlessness
and instability. Therefore neither walk very
fast nor very slow; yet, when it shall be nec-
essary to go with haste, do so,—in this use your
discretion. And when you may be obliged to
jump over a pool of water, do it with decency,
that you may neither appear clumsy nor light.
When you are in the street, do not carry your
head very much inclined, or your body bent;
nor as little go with your head very much
raised; since it is a mark of ill breeding; walk
erect, and with your head slightly inclined.
Do not have your mouth covered, or your face,
from shame, nor go looking like a near-sighted
person, nor, on your way, make fantastic move-
ments with your feet. Walk through the street
quietly, and wiih propriety. Another thing
that you must attend to, my daughter, is, that
when you are in the street you do not go look-
ing hither and thither, nor turning your head
to look at this and that; walk neither looking
at the skies nor on the ground. Do not look
upon those whom you meet with the eyes of an
offended person, or have the appearance of be-
ing uneasy; but of one who looks upon all with
a serene couutenance; doing this, you will give
no one occasion of being offended with you.
Show a becoming countenance; that you may
neither appear morose, nor, on the other hand,
too complaisant. See, my daughter, that you
give yourself no concern about the words you
may hear, in going through the street, nor pay
any regard to them, let those who come and go
say what they will. Take care that you neither
answer nor speak, but act as if you neither
heard nor understood them; since, doing in
this manner, no one will be able to say with
truth that you have said anything amiss. See,
likewise, my daughter, that you never paint
your face, or stain it or your lips with colors,
in order to appear well; since this is a mark of
vile and unchaste women. Paints and coloring
are things which bad women use,—the im-
modest, who have lost all shame and even
sense, who are like fools and drunkards, and
are called rameras [prostitutes]. But, that
your husband may not dislike you, adorn your-
self, wash yourself, and cleanse your clothes;
and let this be done with moderation; since if
very day you wash yourself and your clothes

[Column 2]
it will be said of you that you are over-nice,—
too delicate; they will call you tapepeizon tin-
emaxoch.—My daughter, this is the course you
are to take; since in this manner the ancestors
from whom you spring brought us up. Those
noble and venerable dames, your grandmothers,
told us not so many things as I have told you,
—they said but few words, and spoke thus:
"Listen my daughters; in this world it is neces-
sary to live with much prudence and circnm-
spection. Hear this allegory, which I shall
now tell you, and preserve it, and take from it
a warning and example for living aright.
Here, in this world, we travel by a very nar-
row, steep, and dangerous road, which is as a
lofty mountain ridge, on whose top passes a
narrow path; on either side is a great gulf
without bottom; and if you deviate from the
path you will fall into it. There is need, there-
fore, of much discretion in pursuing the road."
My tenderly loved daughter, my little dove,
keep this illustration in your heart, and see
that you do not forget it,—it will be to you as
a lamp and a beacon so long as you shall live
in this world. Only one thing remains to be
said. and I have done. If God shall give you
life, if you shall continue some years upon the
earth, see that you guard yourself carefully,
that no stain comes upon you; should you for-
feit your chastity, and afterwards be asked in
marriage and should marry any one, you will
never be fortunate, nor have true love,—he
will always remember that you were not a
virgin, and this will be the cause of great afflic-
tion and distress; you will never be at peace,
for your husband will always be suspicious of
you. O my dearly beloved daughter, if you
shall live upon the earth, see that no more than
one man approaches you; and observe what I
now shall tell you, as a strict command.
When it shall please God that you shall receive
a husband, and you are placed under his
authority, be free from arrogance, see that you
do not neglect him, nor allow your heart to be
in opposition to him. Be not disrespectful to
him. Beware that in no time or place you
commit the treason against him called ad-
ultery. See that you give no favor to another;
since this, my dear and much-loved daughter,
is to fall into a pit without bottom, from which
there will be no escape. According to the
custom of the world, if it shall be known, for
this crime they will kill you, they will throw
you into the street, for an example to all the
people, where your head will be crushed and
dragged upon the ground. Of these says a
proverb, "You will be stoned and dragged up-
on the earth, and others will take warning at
your death." From this will arise a stain and
dishonor upon our ancestors, the nobles and
senators from whom we are descended. You
will tarnish their illustrious fame, and their
glory, by the filthiness and impurity of your
sin. You will likewise, lose your reputation,
your nobility, and honor of birth; your name
will be forgotten and abhorred. Of you will it
be said that you were buried in the dust of your
sins. And remember, my daughter, that,
though no man shall see you, nor your husband
ever know what happens; God, who is in every
place sees you, will be angry with you, and will
also excite the indignation of the people against
you, and shall be avenged upon you as he shall
see fit. By his command, you shall either be
maimed, or struck blind, or your body will
wither, or you will come to extreme poverty;
for daring to injure your husband. Or per-
haps he will give you to death, and put you
under his feet, sending you to the place of tor-
ment. Our Lord is compassionate; but, if you
commit treason against your husband, God,
who is in evrey place, shall take vengeance on
your sins, and will permit you to have neither
contentment, nor repose, nor a peaceful life;
and he will excite your husband to be always
unkind towards you, and always to speak to

[Column 3]
you with anger. My dear daughter, whom I
tenderly love, see that you live in the world in
peace, tranquillity, and contentment, all the
days that you shall live. See that you dis-
grace not yourself, that you stain not your
honor, nor pollute the lustre and fame of your
ancestors. See that you honor me and your
father, and reflect glory on us by your good
life. May God prosper you, my first-born,
and may you come to God, who is in every
place."


