[Vol47 | December 1960 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Brough]
[The Need Is Urgent — A Message From the National Tuberculosis Association Franklin K. Brough]

As a prophet speaking to the mothers of modern Israel, President Moyle said, "It is my duty today to issue a note of warning, of caution, and call upon you to use wisdom, judgment, and discretion and above all, dedicate yourselves first and foremost to the proper rearing of your children and your grandchildren." President Spafford emphasized the need for society today to strive more for the enduring, deepseated spiritual needs of mankind and stressed the lasting rewards that accrue through "serving with full intent of heart." Counselor Sharp pointed out the responsibility of mothers to make a heaven at home and how Relief Society can help them to do so. Counselor Madsen discussed the noble calling and privilege of a mother to help build up the kingdom of God by being a good wife, mother, and homemaker. Sister Christensen told of the value of a mother using profitably her time and talents. A 500-voice chorus of Singing ~~ Mothers from seventeen stakes in the Ogden and Northern Utah Regions provided the music. The chorus was directed by Florence Jepperson Madsen of the General Board, and Alexander Schreiner accompanied at the organ. On Wednesday evening from 7 to 10 p. M. The General Board members greeted approximately 2500 stake and mission officers and board members at a beautifully appointed reception in the Relief Society Building. In the 10 A. M. Departmental Meeting on 'Thursday morning, dramatic presentations _ entitled "Out of the Book" and "This I Remember" featured the current year's theology and literature courscs, respectively. 'The second year's social science course was _ presented through a symposium interspersed with narrations and musical background. 'The Monument Park West Stake Singing Mothers Chorus, directed by Louise Cook, rendered the music in connection with the theology presentation. Frank W. Asper was at the organ. Elder Marion G. Romney, of the Council of the Twelve, opened the 1:30 P. M. Departmental Meeting with an address defining the duties of Relief Society in the Welfare Plan.