[Vol47 | December 1960 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Fiction | Title: My | Author: Kingsbury]
[My Third Grandma — Part IV — Nandi Ilene H. Kingsbury]

"Mother, that's what Laura and I wanted to talk to you about. Would you mind so much living with Chris and Sarah for awhile?" James hadn't said for how long. He hadn't said she was too much work for Laura, or that she needed a rest. Just that. Would you mind living with Chris and Sarah awhile? It sort of took her breath, really, but she quickly moistened her lips and smiled faintly and said, "Why, James, it would be fine to stay a spell with Chris and Sarah." She guessed she should have been moving from one child's home to GRANDMA'S SURPRISE PACKAGES another, before someone suggested it, not bother any one family too long. But she had felt so at home here with James and Laura, and they had acted as if it was all right to stay permanently. "Well, then, if you'll pack a suitcase, I'll take you over to Sarah's place first thing after breakfast." "Mother Benson, why don't you pack the little trunk. You know, take all the things you'll need, and your Christmas sewing and crocheting, and " "Yes, Laura, Pll get my things right now." She turned quickly. She mustn't ever let' anyone know. She must finish life bravely, serenely, no matter what happened. No matter if she were passed around among the children the rest of her days. RANDMA Benson went over the last month while living here at Chris' and Sarah's. They had treated her nice enough. They really had. The children had been happy to have her read to them occasionally, and she had had time to make all of her Christmas gifts. She had made cute little aprons for the smaller girls. Some were ruffled pinafores, and some were appliqued with flowers or birds. The older granddaughters would receive a length of fine lace for pillowcases. They were all filling hope chests. The boys in the family would get colorful crocheted bookmarks. Boys needed to be encouraged to sit down and read, Grandma thought. The men would each receive a knitted tie, and the ladies crocheted bedroom slippers to match their favorite robe. Besides the present, Grandma had written a little personal verse for each per- 813 son. It had all taken lots of time and thought. In fact, it had been good for her. When one was doing things creative, one didn't have so much time to remember hurts. Chris and Sarah and their children had been ever so nice. She didn't have any complaints, except that Chris and Sarah were gone a great deal evenings. And Sarah usually made some excuse, almost every afternoon, to go to the library, or shopping. Then, too, they were rather crowded. She shared a room with Janice, who was working downtown, and was dating. She knew her being there was inconvenient for Janice. She never turned on the light to undress, and just felt around for her nighty and slippers in the dark. James and Laura had come to see her quite often, but not once had they said anything like, "Do you want to come home, Mother?" She guessed she had worn out her welcome at James' and Laura's completely. Now, it was the day before Christmas, and they were all to spend Christmas Eve at James' and Lauras. 'They would have the usual program, mostly the little tots singing and reciting. Then the presents would be opened, and light refreshments served, before each family went to its own home to await Santa's visit. RANDMA Benson had assumed the family usually came to James' and Laura's because she had made her home there. Now, she realized, it was because their house was much larger. It would be different this year. Instead of her being there to greet the others when 814 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 thev arrived, being one of the hostesses, she now was just a guest in James' and Laura's home. Grandma Benson had a sudden impulse to pull out her lace-edged handkerchief and fill it with the tears she had held back ever so long. But she mustn't give way to grief. Not at Christmas time. Not ever! Life had been hard many times, and she wasn't going to let down when she was pushing seventy-seven. What had Grandpa Benson always said? "Keep a stiff upper lip, Susan, things have a way of working out!" "ATE you ready to go, Grandma?" Sarah asked. Serah, always said, Grandma. And she was her own daughter. It made her feel so old. Of course, she knew Sarah did it to set an example for her children. "Why, yes, Sarah, I'm ready, all but my coat and scarf." "Roger, go get Grandma's coat in the hall closet. Don't drop the scarf tucked in the sleeve." Sarah turned to the others. "The rest of you get in the car." Then all at once they were driving up to James' and Laura's. The dear old home looked so lovely, all the evergreens starlit with snowflakes. James had strung lights on the biggest pine tree, making a real outdoor Christmas tree! The drapes were drawn, and the lighted tree in the living room was even more beautiful than when she had been there to help decorate, or sit back and suggest where to hang the ornaments. And the little stockings she had made for all last vear, were hanging on the mantle. They had remembered to use them, even though she hadn't been there to suggest it. The door was swinging open now, and both James and Laura were calling: "Merry Christmas all of you!" "Welcome home, Mother." James and Laura said together, then they looked at each other and laughed softly. "Mother, you might as well take your scarf and coat right up." James took her arm, and Laura took her other arm, and they were taking her up the stairs. Perhaps they didn't want her in the living room, and yet they had said, "Welcome home, Mother." What were all the others doing following at their heels? AMES swung the door to her old room open, and a silence fell on all the family, even those still at the foot of the stairway. Grandma Benson caught her breath and just looked. Why a miracle had happened! Instead of the drab old flowered wallpaper, there was a lovely soft pink on the walls. 'The old gra woodwork was all pink now. The dear old bed and dresser and vanity were all refinished in limed oak. The overstuffed chair was reupholstered in a lovely blue. The floor was covered with wall to wall carpeting in a soft blue shade. At the windows hung flowered cretonne draw drapes. They had little pink and blue flowers, carrying out the color scheme of the room. "Sarah made the drapes, Mother Benson," Laura said, "that's why she left you so much, she was sewing every minute over here. And here are the lovely hooked rugs you gave me. I cherish them as much as ever, but they just seemed to belong in this room." GRANDMA'S SURPRISE PACKAGES "Yes, they do add a cozy touch," Grandma Benson murmured. It was so like Laura, giving someone else what she herself cherished. Why had she doubted her unselfishness for a time? Grandma Benson had a big lump in her throat, but she must speak up. The family would think her ungrateful. What was James saying? "All the family helped, Mother. They helped lovingly, with their hands and with their purses, and we ve all enjoyed doing it. You see, we didn't wrap your presents as surprises by the tree this year, we hid them behind your own door." 815 "Your own door," the words were sweet to. Grandma Benson. She wanted to cry, but they were tears of joy she was holding back now. Her lip quivered, but she managed to control herself and gave her biggest smile. "You children surely did surprise me all right. And you have made me very, very happy. You're all dears, and I love you every one. Now let's go downstairs and _ start our program. I want to hear the little folks' pieces, and." Grandma Benson laughed gaily, "I have a few surprise packages to pass out myself." <>< Wearing the Smell of (Voods Maude Rubin Wearing the smell of woods, the morning air, Its resiny freshness brings the outdoors in; The house, already bright with berries' flare, Now puts on soft green sable.... Clear and thin The call of robins once rang through these boughs; A squirrel skittered to his needled tip— A chipmunk hurried to her hidden house; A chickadee sat here to swing and dip. Now I must dress this fragrant forest thing With glittering toys and baubles blue and gold; Must string light-cord where winds no longer sing Or icicles ring crystal chimes of cold. I spread the new white cotton on the floor, Pour star-dust from a package; close and snug I draw the window curtains. One thing more, To sweep the shining litter from the rug. All this for children's magic morning-sight This tree, now leafed with silver, flowered with light! Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, December 1, and December 15, 1900 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NatTIons"' THE NEW CENTURY: Whatever may be the fate of the world a century later one cannot help feeling and realizing that the United States, the Republic of America is marching onward to a high destiny,... Development goes forward and ideas accumulate as the world grows older, and men "and women who seriously contemplate life and action... Enter upon the century heart and soul and seem to be lifted by a sort of mental and spiritual enthusiasm into higher ranges of sublimity than were known a hundred years ago. —Editorial CENTURY'S GREETING TO AID RED CROSS: The parting of the centuries on the night of the 31st of the coming December will have a celebration of world-wide import and interest in the unique watch meetings to be held in this country under the auspices of the American National Red Cross. The specially organized Twentieth Century Department of the Red Cross is now preparing to hold watch meetings, as far as practicable, in every city, town and village in the United States. Mammoth meetings are already arranged for in New York and other leading cities, in Madison Square Gardens and other great auditoriums, to see the old century out and the new century in. Probably no sign or figure in the secular world is sacred to so many eyes as the Red Cross of Geneva. It is the insignia of a humanity that knows no foe.... Its international organization is founded on the welcome and authorization of the united governments of the civilized world. —E. B. W. CHRISTMAS REVERIES While the tremulous pulse of the universe Is throbbing with "peace and good will," Thus my soul is replete with reveries sweet, Brightest hopes my being to thrill; That the waning days of this century May carry all Aon from the world; That love among men forever may reign, With the banner of peace unfurled. Ei —Ellis R. Shipp RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN UINTAH STAKE: President Sarah Pope was pleased to again have the privilege of meeting with the sisters in conference, and said we had with us two sisters from headquarters and no doubt all would be pleased to hear from them.... Sister Mary E. Irvine said... President Joseph Smith turned the key in behalf of women, and how they had adv anced since that time. We should look after ourselves and not spend so much time bothering our neighbors. When we go before our Father in heaven He will not ask us what everyone else has been doing, but what we ourselves have done. Sister Susan Grant said one of the important missions of the Relief Society was to store up grain and then take care that it is not destroyed. We should always remember our prayers.... —Addie Longhurst, See. THE FUTURE: 'Those who are permitted to live far into the twentieth century are likely to see and learn still more marvelous things than have been made known mn the past. —ditorial Page 816 ISS MARY E. SWITZER is director of the United States Federal Office of Vocational Rehabilitation. She was recently named by the Eighth World Congress of the International Society for the Welfare of Cripples as one of three recipients of the Albert Lasker Award, medicine's highest. She is the first woman to receive this honor. She has also been presented with awards by the National Rehabilitation Association, the Cerebral Palsy, AmVets, Institute for the Crippled and Disabled associations, among others. RS. HALIMA ANEGAY, a twenty-five-year-old widow from Casablanca, is cultural attache of the Moroccan Embassy in Washington and is also assigned to the social, humanitarian, and cultural committee of the United Nations. RS. ELEANORE J. GREENE, a Latter-day Saint of Pasadena, California, has recently been inducted into the Multi-Millionaire Club of a national life insurance company for her outstanding record in life insurance salesmanship. She is the only woman to receive this distinctive honor from her company, and is one of the few women in the United States to receive a similar award.