[Vol47 | December 1960 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Nathan | Author: Brown]
After teaching in Hill Spring for sometime, he became Courtesy the Deseret News ELDER NATHAN ELDON TANNER principal of the Cardston Public School. On December 20, 1919, he married Sara Isabelle Merrill. They now have five lovely daughters and twenty-two grandchildren. 'The daughters are: Mrs. C. R. Walker, Calgary, Alberta (Ruth); Mrs. W. S. Jensen, Calgary, Alberta (Isabelle); Mrs. H. S. Rhodes, Calgary, Alberta (Zola); Mrs. G. L. Spackman, Regina, Saskatchewan (Beth): and Mrs. L. Williams, Calgary, Alberta (Helen). Sister Tanner has stood loyally by his side through all the vicissitudes Page 801 802 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 * yy ELDER NATHAN ELDO TANNER AND FAMILY Seated in front: Sara Isabelle Merrill 'Tanner; Elder Nathan Eldon Tanner. Back row, standing, left to right: Mrs. W. S. Jensen (Isabelle); Mrs. C. R. Walker (Ruth); Mrs. H. S. Rhodes (Zola); Mrs. G. L. Spackman (Beth); Mrs. L. Williams (Helen). Of their lives, has been an ideal wife, mother, and grandmother, is dearly loved by all her in-laws, has been active throughout her life in ward and stake MIA and Relief Society and as a teacher in Sunday School. Elder Tanner was elected to the Alberta Provincial Parliament in 1935, and was re-clected four times. During the first session of the new Government, he was chosen as speaker of the House, but prior to the second session—in January 1937 —he became a member of the cabinet with the portfolio of Minister of ands and Mines. Due to the development that was taking place in the resources of the province, the department was divided in April 1949, and he was named minister of the two new departments—Department of Lands and Forests and Department of Mines and Minerals. In addition he held the appointment of Chairman of the Alberta Research Council.

During his administration, and under his sponsorship, the laws governing the development of mines and munerals (including gas and _ oil) were enacted and strictly enforced. The development of the natural resources under his direction was so successful that the Alberta laws and regulations have served as a guide to similar developments in other parts of Canada and the United States. [N September 1952, he resigned from Government service to take over the presidency of Merrill Pe- NATHAN ELDON TANNER troleums Limited, and in March 1954, he resigned from that position to accept the presidency of 'TransCanada Pipe Lines Limited, a newly formed three hundred million dollar corporation which constructed a pipeline from Alberta to Quebec to take natural gas to Eastern Canada. He severed his official duties with Trans-Canada in March 1959, but retains his directorship in the company. In addition he is a director of: National 'Trust Company Limited; The 'Toronto-Dominion Bank; Consolidated Freightways, Inc.; Inland Cement Co., Ltd.; The Alberta Gas Trunk Line Co.; Waterous Equipment Limited; Jenkins Groceteria Limited; Merit Oil Limited. At present he is president of Merit Oil Limited; Provincial Products Pipeline Limited; Saratoga Processing Co., Ltd; and VicePresident of Grizzly Petroleum, Ltd. He was president of the Canadian Gas Association in 1959-60 and is at present serving as past president. From 1932-35 Elder Tanner was bishop of the Cardston First Ward and prior to that he served as a counselor. He also served on the high council of the Alberta Stake. On moving to Edmonton he was made president of the Edmonton Branch in 1938 and served in that position until 1952. During that time the first chapel in Edmonton was erected and the seminary established at the University of Alberta. He has been president of the Calgary Stake since its organization in 1953 and, until a month ago (when there was a division of the stake), 803 there were twelve wards and branches; at present there are nine. During his presidency the $450,000 Calgary Stake Center was built. He was Commissioner of the Boy Scouts Association for the province of Alberta from 1945 to 1953. He is a life member of the association and has been awarded the Silver Wolf. He is also a member of the Board of Governors of the University of Alberta. He received an Honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Brigham Young University in 1956. He is a member of the following clubs: Rotary; Petroleum; Ranchmen's; Calgary Golf and Country Club; Toronto Club; Canadian Club, New York; Calgary Chamber of Commerce. He is a man of outstanding executive ability, unquestioned integrity, and throughout his public career has been known, even by his political opponents, for his rugged and undeviating honesty. He is a humble man of great faith, courage, and constancy, an ideal husband and father, and a devoted and capable Church leader. Elder and Sister Tanner intend to move to Salt Lake City as soon as they can be relieved of their responsibilities in Canada. He will be welcomed as one of the General Authorities by all members of the Church and will be a distinct asset in the presiding councils of the Church. We, his associates, are proud to welcome him and his lovely wife into the official family of the General Authorities of the Church.