[Vol47 | December 1960 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Parker]
The Annual General Relief Society Conference Hulda Parker General Secretary-Treasuret W toe nature providing a glorious autumn setting, Relief Society leaders from each of the 303 stakes in the Church and from twenty-eight missions assembled in the Tabernacle on Temple Square, Wednesday and Thursday, October 5 and 6, for another Annual General Relief Society Confcrence. As each session of the conference proceeded under the direction of President Belle S. Spafford and ner counselors, Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen, and as messages of inspiration and instruction were given through word, music, and dramatic presentation, one felt they were lndeed responding to the admonition of the First Presidency m 1942 to members of Relicf Society, "never to forget that they are a unique OTganization m the whole world...." For the first time since the dedication of the Relief Society Building in 1956, mission Relief Society presidents from Canada, United States, Mexico, and Central America were in attendance. A special allday meeting was held for these sisters in the General Board room on Tuesday, October 4. The opening session of the conference was the Officers Meeting held in the Tabernacle on W ednesday from 10 A. M. To 12 noon for stake and mission officers and board members. President Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve, an advisor to Relicf Society, Page 810 opened the conference with an appeal to the sisters of the Church "to teach their children the truths of the gospel as found in the scriptures." _ President Spafford then presented the Report and Official Instructions. As the 2508 sisters from the stakes and 101 from missions responded to a standing roll call conducted by SecretaryPreasurer Hulda Parker, it was impressive to observe the large number of representatives from several missions and the majority of stakes, and that every stake in the Church, including Auckland, New Tealand,; Sydney, Australia; and Manchester, England, had _ representation at the conference. Fider Mark E. Petersen of the Council of the Twelve, also an advisor to Relief Society, concluded this session with an admonition for every mother to help "build the needed spirituality to preserve the home" against the evils of the day through active affiliation in Relief Society. 'The music for this session was presented by a chorus of 175 Singing Mothers from the Big Horn Stake in Wyoming, under the di rection of Ora M. Welch with Alexander Schreiner at the organ. In the General Session at 2 P. M. Relicf Society members and the gencral public heard inspiring addresses by President Henry Moyle of the First Presidency, the members of the Relief Society Ger eral Presidency, and Alberta HI. THE ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE 811 Christensen of the General Board. As a prophet speaking to the mothers of modern Israel, President Moyle said, "It is my duty today to issue a note of warning, of caution, and call upon you to use wisdom, judgment, and discretion and above all, dedicate yourselves first and foremost to the proper rearing of your children and your grandchildren." President Spafford emphasized the need for society today to strive more for the enduring, deepseated spiritual needs of mankind and stressed the lasting rewards that accrue through "serving with full intent of heart." Counselor Sharp pointed out the responsibility of mothers to make a heaven at home and how Relief Society can help them to do so. Counselor Madsen discussed the noble calling and privilege of a mother to help build up the kingdom of God by being a good wife, mother, and homemaker. Sister Christensen told of the value of a mother using profitably her time and talents. A 500-voice chorus of Singing ~~ Mothers from seventeen stakes in the Ogden and Northern Utah Regions provided the music. The chorus was directed by Florence Jepperson Madsen of the General Board, and Alexander Schreiner accompanied at the organ. On Wednesday evening from 7 to 10 p. M. The General Board members greeted approximately 2500 stake and mission officers and board members at a beautifully appointed reception in the Relief Society Building. In the 10 A. M. Departmental Meeting on 'Thursday morning, dramatic presentations _ entitled "Out of the Book" and "This I Remember" featured the current year's theology and literature courscs, respectively. 'The second year's social science course was _ presented through a symposium interspersed with narrations and musical background. 'The Monument Park West Stake Singing Mothers Chorus, directed by Louise Cook, rendered the music in connection with the theology presentation. Frank W. Asper was at the organ. Elder Marion G. Romney, of the Council of the Twelve, opened the 1:30 P. M. Departmental Meeting with an address defining the duties of Relief Society in the Welfare Plan.

The visiting teacher messages for the current year were introduced through a_ presentation, "Messengers of Love and Service." At that same hour separate departmental sessions were held for secretary-treasurers, work meeting leaders, and choristers and organists. From 2:45 to 4 P. M. Other departmental sessions were held in the Tabernacle for stake and mission presidencies and Magazine representatives, and in the Assembly Hall for stake and mission class leaders. Elder Alvin R. Dyer, an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, spoke in the presidencies department on the missionary program of the Church in Europe. Another special feature of this meeting was an inspiring presentation on The Rehef Society Magazine, "As a Voice Speaking." Music was provided by the Bountiful North Stake Singing Mothers directed by Iris H. Moon, with Roy M. Darley at the organ. Thus concluded another glorious conference of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Grandma s Surprise Packages Frances C. Yost RANDMA _ Benson let her (5 tired hands rest in her lap. It was Christmas Eve and she was ready for it. Why she had her family. This should be a time a lovely surprise package for every one of the twenty-five members in for real celebrating, the eve of Christmas, but hae heart wasn't in it. There was a hurt in her heart she just couldn't shake off, and it wasn't somcthing she could talk over, or confide in anyone. She just had to go on bravely smiling and loving all the family as she always had. Some hurts were best that way, left alone. Grandma Benson knew the very day the hurt in her heart had started. She was just as happy as a grandmother could be, with her children and grandchildren around her, and thinking they all loved her until. Well, it happened right after the 'Thanksgiving family gettogether. Why it was the morning after, in fact. It all happened nght in the dear old room she loved. It was a big room, with plenty of light. It was a combination living room and bedroom, with an adjoining private bath. She had all the things she loved here in the room, her books and keepsakes, and she was comfortable. If she wanted to have privacy, she could have it, and if she wanted to join the family, She was always welcome. If she wanted her meals alone, one of the children would gladly bring a tray to her room. 'True, the furniture was getting shabby, and the rug was worn, and the curtains were mended. But it was home, and she was Page 812 perfectly happy, until that morning when her son James and his wife Laura had come to her room. Grandma Benson could remember it so well, every word that had been said.. "May we come in awhile and visit, Mother?" "Why certainly, James, you know you're always welcome in my part of the house." Grandma Benson had chuckled gaily then. Now, she realized she was presumptive to have said, "my part of the house." None of the house was really hers, it was James' and Laura's home, not hers at all. Her old home had been sold to pay expenses when Grandpa had died. And, anyway, the family had said she mustn't live alone. At that time they had appeared to mean it. "Did you sleep well, Mother Benson?" "Why ves, Laura, thanks to you, a clean, lovely, soft sheets on my bed, I sleep like a child. I love my dear old bed."