[Vol47 | December 1960 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Lesson | Title: Literature | Author: Jacobs]
Wy tekatire— Americs's Literature Comes of Age Lesson 22 — Ralph Waldo Emerson, American Idealist Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 250-303) For Tuesday, March 21, 1961 Objective: To recognize Emerson as the nucleus of American literature during its classic period preceding the Civil War. ACH age re-defines truth in its own terms. Looking back, we may be tempted to evaluate a man by his deficiencies revealed through time; likewise it is easy to belittle any person of the past to the degree he differed from what we believe now. Neither attitude yields eminent truth or justice. Thus many moderns find it fashionable to ignore or to depreciate Emerson. 'Their complaints are various: his essays are vague, repetitious, incoherent, inconsistent, shallowly optimistic; his poems are tonedeaf, roughshod, elliptical, obscure. But their most cutting charge against him is that he ignores at least two subjects ever-present in great literatures of the past and central in modern authors; namely, sex and evil. 852 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 While in each of these charges lies some substantial truth, it is not the whole truth. Emerson is commended to us for three reasons: first, probably more than any other one person he shaped and spoke for the age now known as the American Renaissance; second, in addition to enjoying during his own lifetime the friendship and estecm of all American writers, plus Wordsworth, Coleridge, Carlyle, Tennyson, Arnold, and Goethe abroad, he has been acknowledged as a dominant formative influence on more recent Americans: Emily Dickinson, William James, Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Frank Lloyd Wright, Edwin Arlington Robinson, and Robert Frost; finally, both as essayist and poet he possesses sufficient intrinsic worth to commend him to every lover of literature, even if his name, time, and place were unknown. Recalling that honest praise and love can never be forced, let us consider words by those who have esteemed Emerson's power and stature. Matthew Arnold who maintained that Emerson's essays had never been surpassed in English, spoke of him as "the friend and aider of those who would live in the spirit." John Jay Chapman believed that "it is solely as character that he is important. We must regard and deal with him simply as aman." 'The historian James 'Truslow Adams, who somewhat distrusted him, nevertheless wrote that "in no other author can we get so close to the whole of the American spirit." In his "Partial Portraits" the novelist Henry James wrote: Emerson had a gentus for secing character as a real and supreme thing. He serves and will not wear out; indeed, we cannot afford to drop him. He did something better than anyone else; he had a_particular faculty, which has not been surpassed, for speaking to the soul in a voice of direction and authority. Personal-National Destiny Aside from being contemporaries, the struggling young America and the adolescent Emerson shared so many facts and values that it is difficult to separate one from the other. Both were heavily rooted in the Puritan past (Emerson being descended from seven generations of Protestant ministers). Both were acutely aware of their gross inadequacies, and even more sharply aware of their great destinies which must not slip by unfulfilled, regardless of the cost. While Emerson was a proud but mediocre student at Harvard College, sharing a winter coat with one of his three younger brothers, waiting on table, and running errands for the President to help lighten his widowed mother's financial burden, Emerson wrote in his Journal on October 25, 1822, aged nineteen: I find myself often idle, vagrant, stupid and hollow. This is somewhat appalling and, if I do not discipline myself with dihgent care, I shall suffer severely from remorse and the sense of inferiority hereafter. All around me are industrious and will be great, I am indolent and shall be insignificant. Avert it, heaven! Avert. It, virtue! [ need excitement. Three months earlier, with transparent impersonality, he had defined himself as the potential prophet-poct of his country: I dedicate my book to the spirit of America. I dedicate it to that living soul, which doth exist somewhere beyond the fancy, to whom the Divinity hath assigned the care of this bright corner of LESSON DEPARTMENT A Perry Picture RALPH WALDO EMERSON 1803-1882 the universe. With a spark of prophetic devotion, I hasten to hail the genius, who yet counts the tardy years of childhood, but who is increasingly unawares in the twilight, and swelling into strength, until the hour when he shall break the cloud, to shew his colossal youth, and cover the firmament with the shadow of his wings. Exultant with the surge of firstyouth — yet uncertain just how to control such power; outwardly unafraid while inwardly insecure; longing with teen-age passion to leave home and _ parental domination, Emerson fiercely determined never to submit again to domination by the parental pattern; but, slowly he discovered it to be the only pattern available. 'These vexing conflicts plagued both Emerson and _ the country whose destiny he felt to be his own. 853 E'merson's Life Born May 25, 1803, one hundred years after Jonathan Edwards, to whom he was so heavily indebted, Emerson was left fatherless at eight, his father having been minister of Boston's prominent First Church, Unitarian. When years later he wrote in Nature of "debt, grinding debt, whose face the iron widow, the orphan, and the sons of genius fear and hate," he spoke from firsthand experience, as he did of everything else in his writings. But while his brothers Edward and Charles graduated first and second in their Harvard classes, Waldo was about average, and was appointed class poet only after six of his classmates had turned it down. After graduation he assisted his brother William in running a girls' finishing school held in his mother's home. In 1826 he was accepted as a minister by the Middlesex Association, but his frequent failure of eyesight, rheumatic pains, and threat of tuberculosis forced him to go to Florida for a year. On his return, in 1829, he married beautiful seventeen-year-old Ellen 'Tucker after having been appointed minister of the Second Unitarian Church of Boston, but, early in 1832, she died of tuberculosis. For years afterward he walked to her grave every morning. His younger brother, Edward, "the admired, learned, eloquent, striving boy" had become insane in 1828, dying in 1834; two of his brothers were soon to die of tuberculosis. Though the family religion of Unitarianism was theologically liberal, increasingly Emerson found its members to be proud, staid, genteel, and spiritually dead, leaving his 854 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—-DECEMBER 1960 strong craving for religious fulfillment unsatished. In 1832, convinced that true religion "is not a form. It is a life," he resigned his ministry, protesting as excuse his lack of authority to adminster the sacrament — convinced that the Lord's supper was not intended by Christ to be a permanent sacrament. He sailed for Europe and in the next two years he "found himself," aided by the "pilot-minds'" Coleridge, Goethe, and his lifelong friend, Carlyle. Soon after his return he married Lydia Jackson, having previously purchased his grandfather's house in tural Concord and settled down to write his three great manifestoes: "Nature" in 1836, "The American Scholar" in 1837, and "The Divinity School Address" in 1838. In 1836 his dearest brother Charles died just before Emerson's son Waldo, the beatitude of his life, was born. Yet six vears later this lovely lad died, a blow which scarred Emerson until his death, when he (22 exclaimed, "Oh, that beautiful boy! For some ten years after his resignation from the ministry in 1832, Emerson was considered a failure both by the community and by many of his family. His wife's inheritance, however, of $1,200 a year was soon matched by his income from lyceum speeches which he gave throughout New England and the then West — Indiana, Iowa, and Michigan. He often traveled long distances by sled in sub-zero weather to captivate the isolated pioneers. His first series of "Essays" sold mildly in 1841, the second series more briskly after publication in 1844, followed by numerous other books and poems before the Civil War. When the war came he welcomed it, having been active in the cause of Abolition. He had said in 1856, "I think we must get rid of slavery, or we must get rid of freedom." In 1867 he formally ended his creative literary career with publication of his poem "Terminus"; but he continued to be honored as the leader of the 'Transcendentalists and was acknowledged the foremost literary personage of his day. Suddenly his regal appearance changed, his memory failed him, and he was old. After his house burned, in 1872, he had to lean heavily on his daughter Ellen for guidance and counsel. Gifts of almost $20,000 came from friends for rebuilding the house. Ellen took him to Europe for his third trip where he was royally received by its great figures. Upon his return the entire village of Concord turned out to welcome him back to his restored home, where he continued entries in his journaal for four years, dying six years later, in 1882, aged seventy-eight. The Rebel Emerson Because Emerson was personally shy and reserved, kind, and _ softspoken, it is easy to recall him as a benign, venerated patriarch who wrote the beautiful poem, "The Rhodora," with its famous final lines, Tell them, dear, that if eyes were made for seeing, Then Beauty is its own excuse for being: Why thou wert there, O rival of the rose! I never thought to ask, I never knew: But, in my simple ignorance, suppose The selfsame Power that brought me there brought you. This is authentic Emerson, indeed, but only one small phase of LESSON DEPARTMENT him. In actuality a moral teacher more than anything else, he framed within his terse, sparkling sentences the memorable definitions of the American man and America's destiny which were implicit in the great documents of Jefferson and the Founding Fathers, but which had never before been immortalized in literary form. Ripening within himself during his European "wanderyear' a new vision of who man really is, and believing that "Nothing is at last sacred but the integrity of your own mind," Emerson devoted the mature power of his life to preaching to his countrymen his "one doctrine, namely, the infinitude of the private man." It was in contrasting his "ideal man" with existing institutions in American education, religion, morality, government, and business, that the sparks began to fly which indicated to many bystanders in the 1830's and '40's that Emerson was reactionary. Yet in his explosive "Divinity School Address" in 1838, which caused him to be barred from Harvard campus for thirty years, he announced that "Wherever a man comes, there comes Revolution." Emerson was that man, and for some twenty years revolution reigned, making Concord the leading literary and moral force of the country rather than New York; and freeing his grateful countrvmen to a new identity they had long felt in their bones but could not themselves express. 'The following sentences, taken from his writings, express some of Emerson's personal beliefs. I. Man Is Defined The purpose of life seems to be to 855 acquaint a man with himself; the highest revelation is that God is in every man. —Journal The foundations of man are not in matter, but in spirit. But the element of spirit is eternity. Nature is not fixed but fluid. Spirit alters, moulds, makes it. The immobility or bruteness of nature is the absence of spirit; to pure spirit it is fluid, it is volatile, it is obedient. Every spirit builds itself a house and beyond its house a world and beyond its world a heaven. Know then that the world exists for you. For you is the phenomenon perfect. What we are, that only can we see. All that Adam had, all that Caesar could, you have and can do. Build therefore your own world. —Nature, "Prospects" For men are wiser than they know. —*"Compensation" II. Growth Is Action God offers to every man his choice between truth and repose. Take which you please — you can never have both. —"Tntellect'' Do the thing and you shall have the power; but they who do not do the thing have not the power. —"Compensation" That which we persist in doing becomes easier to do; not that the nature of the thing has changed, but that our power to do has increased. The one thing in the world of value is the active soul. —''American Scholar" III. Self-Reliance To believe your own thought, to believe that what is true for you in your private heart is true for all men — that is genius. Trust thyself: that iron string. Nothing is at last sacred but the integrity of your own mind. Speak what you think now in hard words and tomorrow speak what tomorrow thinks in hard words again, though it contradict every thing you said today. IV. Character every heart vibrates to We pass for what we are. Character teaches above our wills.... The force of character is cumulative. —''Self-Reliance"' 856 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 Thinking is the function. Living ls the functionary. 'The stream retreats to its source. —'"American Scholar" Whatever games are played with us, we must play no games with ourselves, but deal in our privacy with the last honestvy and truth. I look upon the simple and childish virtues of veracity and honesty as the root of all that is sublime in character. Speak as you think, be what you are, pay your debts of all kinds. — "TMusions" Thus Emerson opposed complacency, smugness, and the staid patterns which dominated the Unitarian Church and_ social patterns which dominated Boston and New England. In "The American Scholar," which Oliver Wendell Holmes called "Our Intellectual Declaration of Independence,' he states that "The main enterprise of the world for splendor, for extent, is the upbuilding of a man." Relving heavily on nature, freeing himself from "fear fwhich] always springs from ignorance," the scholar is to read "life [which] is our dictionary," and "not quit hns_ belief that a popgun is a popgun, though the ancient and honorable of the earth affirm it to be the crack of doom."

Having "listened too long to the courtly muses of Europe,' now American scholars are to "embrace the common," to "explore and sit at the fect of the familiar, the low" that they may "know all dare all." In "Politics" he reminds us that instead of "reliance on the moral sentiment, and a sufficient belief in the unity of things," "men are selfish," and "government of force" results. 'The state should exist to educate the wise man and to cnsure his higher rights "to be employed, to be trusted, to be loved, to be revered.... We think our civilization near its meridian, but we are yet only at the cock-crowing and the morning star." Emerson was the living spirit of the idea of democracy, but he was far from accepting his Nation without expressing a qualifving awareness of her weaknesses. While most firmly he believed that: Democracy, Freedom, has its root in the sacred truth that every man hath in him the Divine Reason.... This is the equality, and the only equality of all men, he rebelled against accepting democracy in its present low state, in contrast to what it might be. In his Introduction to The Conduct of Life he wrote with fre: Leave this hypocritical prating about the masses. Mflasses are rude, lame, unmade, pernicious in their demands and influences and necd not to be flattered but to be schooled. I wish not to concede anything to them, but to tame, drill, divide and break them up, and draw individuals out of them. Masses! The calamity is the masses. I do not wish any masses at all, but honest men only, lovely, sweet, accomplished women only. When [population] reaches its true law of action, every man that is born will be hailed as essential. Away with this hurrah of masses, and let us have the considerate vote of single men spoken on their honor and their conscience. But though he was well aware of America's weaknesses, he kuew and loved the undevcloped West even as he did his vigorous East. Of them he asked, What should hinder that this New Atlantis should have its happy ports, its mountains of sccurity, its gardens fit for human abode, where all elements are right for the health, power, and virtue of man? Most important, for Imerson, America was always the Future: LESSON DEPARTMENT One cannot look on the freedom of this country in connection with its youth without a presentinent that here shall laws and institutions exist in some proportion to the majesty of Nature.... It is a country of beginnings, of projects, of vast designs and expectations. It has no past: all has an onward and prospective look.— "The Young American" Thus wrote Emerson to his age as to the destiny of his country. Perceptive, wise, entirely honest, fearless, and inspired by both his inward vision of Man as he should be and his passionate love of eloquence," he was to his country its 857 delegated conscience and _ voice. Because he possessed these qualities so abundantly, his indispensability is as timeless as is his hope. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Though Emerson's personal life was filled with tragedy and _ suffering, his writing is vigorous and buoyant. In terms of his beliefs, how can you account for this apparent contradiction? 2. Do you feel Emerson's idealism to be unreal? Too ideal? Of what use is the idealist today? 3. Discuss Emerson as a spokesman for American democracy: (a) then (b) now.