[Vol47 | December 1960 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Fiction | Title: Orchids | Author: Lloyd]
I like his "The ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW voice. It melts through you like warm honey." "Oh, you!" Susan laughed. "Marie says everything in a fancy way. Bishop Harrison is a fine, sincere man." "Listen!" Marie tipped her head. "Hear that music! That's a surprise for you, Jewel." HE music rose soft and sweet like a birdcall. Jewel wet her lips and a little pulse throbbed in her throat. Sharry hoped she wouldn't cry. "My Dad had those musicians come from Anchorage. One plays a violin and the other a viola. Aren't they perfect together? He wanted the very sweetest for you." "He thinks — of everything," Jewel murmured in a low voice. "There!" Sharry said as she smoothed a little wave under Jewel's veil. "'Perfect." "Like a white angel," Susan said softly. "Come on, angel," Marie called, opening the door. "They're playing the bride song!" Sam was at the door. Jewel put her hand on his arm and _ they walked together to the fireplace where McFarland was waiting. Sharry had never seen him dressed in a white shirt and black tie before. He looked very handsome. He handed Jewel a huge, tissue-wrapped package. 'There was a_ breathless silence as. She untied the ribbon and removed the paper from an exquisite cluster of the most beautiful orchids Sharry had ever seen — white, pink, and gold. Orchids for Aunt Jewel! Sharry bent her head. A little sob broke in her throat, as she re- 837 membered what Rachel Jensen had told her about the kind of woman who can find orchids in the snow. Dear, capable, wonderful Aunt Jewel was that kind of woman. She had earned those orchids — she was worthy of every one of them, and McFarland knew it. Love and appreciation were glowing in his dark eyes as he looked at her, they were in his deep voice as he greeted the guests and introduced them to Jewel. Sharry turned her head to meet Sam's searching eyes. He must be remembering their own wedding last June, she thought. Her heart reached out to him, loving him, wanting to help him. Sam smiled, but his eyes were strangely troubled as they clung to hers. After the bride song, the music was gay and informal. A young native boy appeared with a mouthorgan and McFarland had him play it. "This is the kind of wedding where bridesmaids do double duty," Marie told her, laughing. "Now we're the serving maids. Look at the food coming in!" Villagers appeared with great round platters loaded with hot bread and salmon cooked every way imaginable. Susan had brought a large roast of reindeer and a steaming kettle of beans. Hot ginger punch was served from a tin bowl as big as a tub. "Plenty of tin in Alaska,' Sam whispered to Sharry. "Looks as if they used a good share of it for that bowl!" Everyone talked and ate and stayed on and on. They had expected a party and they meant to enjoy it. 838 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 McFarland basked in their approval. This was his land, these were his people, and he wanted them to be happy. It was soon time for Sharry to change her clothes for the tmp home. Marie went to the bedroom with her. They were both silent as Sharry dressed in her long, woolen trousers and heavy sweater. "Pll miss you, Marie," she said. "Don't say goodbye,' Marie answered. "We'll see each other often, no matter what the distance is. Long rides don't mean a thing in Alaska. We don't let storm or darkness or anything else keep us from going where we want to go. We take everything in a big stride." "IT know," Sharry said. "I'm beginning to realize that. I have learned a lot, Marie." Marie's eyes were blue candles in her freckled face. "I think you're a real pal," she said. "You can stride along with the best of them. Now, we better get going. Ill drive you and Sam to the plane." They slipped out the back way as thev didn't want to interrupt the festivities or say goodbye. Music and laughter followed them down the hill and along the trail to the airfield. Marie was a good driver. The dogs obeyed her calls. But she drove faster than McFarland or Sam had done, and Sharry had to cover her face against the icy sleet. "Whew!" Sam said when they topped. "You know the dogs, Marie. That was some driving!" "Guess I'm excited,' she said. "I didn't mean to go so fast." Sharry put her arm around her. "Take it easy,' she coaxed. "I hope everything works out the Way you want it to, Marie." "So do I," Sam added, sinccrely. "I have to stay," she confided, her voice tightening. "Once he said he would wait until I grew up. Pm grown up now —I moe Pm twenty-one.' Sam patted her shoulder. "You're one of the most grown-up little girls I've ever known. Good luck, Marie." She turned the dogs quickly and hurried away. They could hear her voice calling to the dogs as she disappeared in the frosty twilight. Sharry and Sam_ boarded the plane in a strained silence. They were the only passengers. "We have it all to ourselves," Sam said, looking around at the empty seats. Sharry forced a smile. She was determined to be happy and make Sam happy. "T like it this way," she said. "You and I alone for a change. 'There's been so much excitement we've hardly seen each other." Exactly on time the plane. Taxied down the field, lifted easily and sailed off into the blue darkness. AM tucked a warm blanket around Sharry. His lips were smiling, but his chin had squared off determinedly. She knew he had made up his mind about something. She waited for him to speak. He leaned back in the seat beside her. "I've been thinking," he said at last. "You'll miss Jewel and Marie. Fairbanks will be mughty lonely for you without them. How would you like to fly home to Salt Lake City for a good visit?" The words tumbled out in a ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW breathless rush as though he had to get them over with. Sharry closed her eyes. Her heart was a dull ache inside of her. So this was what he had planned. He wanted her to go home to her mother! "If you want to stay there," he went on, "I'll come to you in the spring before it's time for our baby — I'll get a job there." Silence was a heartthrob between them. Sharry couldn't breathe. Sam thought she was the kind of woman who couldn't live in Alaska. He was willing to give up everything he had worked for to take her home again! With a little sob she put her arms around him and pressed her head against his breast. "Oh, darling!" she whispered. "Home is wherever you are and always will be. Home is where we've worked together, where we've built together. Right here in Alaska. I wouldn't think of going away!" 839 His arms went around her fiercely. "Do you really mean it?" he whispered back. "Oh, I do, Sam. I really do," she repeated with a song in her voice. "Let's buy the Gilmore house. Aunt Jewel says she'll lend us the money. We can have all the folks to our house for a visit. We''ll have such nice neighbors, Rachel and Oscar and Mary Billings. And we'll build a new doghouse for Nuzzle!" Sam's arms tightened around het. A long sigh of relief went through him as he bent his head against hers. "My wife," he said, softly. "I want our baby to be born right here in Alaska," Sharry went on gaily. "After all, this is the United States, Mr. Wynter. If it's a boy, he could be President."' Sam tossed his head back, laughing in his old, carefree way. Dreams were in his eyes again. "You're right, Mrs. Wynter," he said. "He could be President. A red-headed Alaskan for President!" What Would AC Do? Bertha A. Kleinman If years could turn back for me, many or few, Granting me grace of a decade or two, Memories and heartache again to live through, Mine for the asking—oh, what would I do? What from the yesterdays would I retrieve— Time I have squandered while others achieve, Favors witheld that were meant to bequeath— What would I do with a granted reprieve? Loved ones who trusted me, neighbor and friend— Slighted and hurt in the day's busy trend— Had I the bounty to spare and expend— How would they answer to such an amend? Time knows no back-step, and years do not bide, Yesterday drowns on the outgoing tide, Only today is my own to deride Or challenge the morrow repentant and tried. LESS N DEPARTMENT Sheology—The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 30—The Past, Present, and Future Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants: Section 45:1-42) For Tuesday, March 7, 1961 Objective: To learn some reasons why obedience to the Lord's will is necessary, and of the need of being aware of the signs in preparation for the Lord's second coming. The Prophet and His People The title of this lesson suggests the functions of a prophet of God. Although there are many responsibilitics belonging to a prophet in furthering the kingdom of God upon the earth, one of the princi functions is to receive revelation for the guidance of the Church. The revelation thus received may refer to the past, as an example, or illustration for present and future_obedience on the part of the saints, or to clarify the scriptures previously given. A prophet thus uses the revelations of other prophets in his understanding of the purposes of the Lord. Another purpose of the revelations received by a living prophet is to give admonitions, warnings, and advice to the people of his own generation. Jn other words, by the spirit of prophecy, a prophet is empowered to interpret present-day conditions for the people. He enjoys Page 840 the privilege of foresceing future events, as the Lord wills it, that the saints may be adequately warmed against _calamitics of the future. 'Vhe Lord's Preface to The Doctrine and Covenants definitely states that the revelations in that book of scripture are to constitute a voice of warning. The Prophet Joseph Smith was called by the Lord, among other reasons, for the purpose of receiving vevelations because OF te aidgutetie to come in the latter days. (See D & CG, Section 1.) Historical Background At the time Section 45 was received by Joseph Smith, many efforts were made by the adversary to destroy the effectiveness of the Church. At this age of the Church [i ¢., early in the spring of 1831] many false reports, lies, and foolish stories, were published in the newspapers, and circulated im every direction, to prevent pcople from investi- LESSON DEPARTMENT gating the work, or embracing the faith. A great earthquake in China, which destroyed from one to two thousand inhabitants, was burlesqued in some papers, as "Mormonism in China." But to the joy of the Saints who had to struggle against every thing that prejudice and wickedness could invent, I received the following: [D & C Section 45] (D. H. C. 1:158). Obedience—W hy? Not all of the Lord's instructions nor the reasons for his giving commandments are given in one revelation. In Section 45, however, several reasons are mentioned for strict obedience to his will. The revelation begins with the fact stated, as one of these reasons, that the kingdom of God has been given to his people (D & C 45:1). Possession of the kingdom by the saints is the same as the attainment of salvation upon their part, but this blessing is only for those who are obedient. Because salvation is the greatest blessing obtamable to a child of God, the necessity for full obedience is apparent. Why should one be obedient? Jesus Christ is the Creator of our earth, as well as of other worlds. He is supreme and by his power we are able to receive the benefits of an earth-life with its environment so ordered that we may live under a reign of law. Is there anyone who is assured that he will be alive on the morrow? Death comes to all men, but when? In the words of the Savior bd hearken_ unto my voice, lest dendh shall overtake you; in an ett when ye think not the summer shall be pa e past, and the harvest ended, and your souls not saved" (D & C 45:2). Now_is the day for repentance. 'Té man fu - ferings of Christ (who is our Advo- ~be fully the Lord's commands. 841 cate with the Father), as he made_ the atonement for _us, man would determined_to obey all of - So intense was the suffering of Christ that he sweat drops of blood from his porcs. (See D & C 19:15-17.) It is only through Jesus Christ that man may receive individual salvation; consequéntly, he reminds the saints of latter days that his prayer to the Father is in behalf of them. (Read D&C 45:45.) As Christ was obedient in glorifying the Father, so, also, may_we glorify the Father at and I the. Son_ by our receiving through obedience the gréatest blessing of eternal _life. Everything the Father and \d the Son dois for our blessing. One may well exclaim: "O how great the goodness of our God. O how great the plan of our God " (2 Nephi g:10, 13). Therefore, hearken "... Today, and harden not your hearts" (D & C 45:6). He who hardens _his bedience is in darkness. ""The Lord Is My Light" sing his people, for Jesus is "... The light and the life of the world — a light that shineth in darkness and the darkness comprehendeth it not" (D & C 45:7). There follows in this revelation another reminder for the necessity of obedience — the Jewish pcaple as SS ae their Messiah who was one of their own. This example from the past poses the thought: heart by diso-. Let it not be said a second time, that Christ has come to "His own," even to His Church in this dispensation, but "His own" refused to hearken to Him (Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 254). 842 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 Obedience, a Challenge In verses eleven through fourteen of Section 45, there is recounted an event of the past which the Lord says could be duplicated in this dispensation by the full obedience of his people. Among the points which are brought to the reader's attention by these verses, we may think (1) verification from the Lord in this modern revelation of the historical fact that Enoch was an actual person mentioned in the Bible (Genesis 5:24); (2) the actual separation of the city of Enoch and its inhabitants from the earth; (3) the promise that the city of Enoch will return to the earth in a day of righteousness, the millennium. (In reference to Enoch's dispensation and the great events made known to him by revelation, consult Moses, chapter 7.) The challenge to the saints of I God today is so to live that, if alive on the earth when the millennium begins, they will as inhabitants of Zion, the New Jerusalem, be prePurposes of the Everlasting Covenant In speaking of the past and the reason for obedience to the fulness of the gospel, the Savior makes known the opportunity for people to become the sons of God and to reccive powcr to obtain eternal life. (Sce D & C 45:8.) For this purpose the everlasting covenant has been established on the earth with all of its powers and glories. (See D & C 133:57-) This covenant is the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. (See D & C 66:2.) The Lord informs us, however, of other purposes, in fact, that there are three other reasons for which he has sent the_gospel into the world. These we 0) "to_be a ght ta the world" thats, to_show the world the way to live; "to be a standard for my people; and for the Gentiles to seek to it" — the gospel will always be the means of salvation to those who accept it, and it will be as an ensign to the nations through the lives of the saints (see D & Gyi5:5; Isaiah 49:22; 62:10); and ((3)) "to be a messenger' in g the way before thc second pared to meet the people of Enoch's I Ee, \ a when it returns to the earth./ coming of Christ. (See D&C (Sec Moses 7:62-65.) The Lord 45:9.) also promises that all those in the past who considered themselves to be ''strangers," but were holy in their lives, seeking for a day of righteousness, might see that day "in their flesh," as resurrected beings to join with the saints of this dispensation. (Cf. Moses 7:62-65.) Will you be numbered among those Latter-day Saints who have lived faithfully to warrant such a_blessing, whether you are in mortality at the time or whether you have passed away? All of these purposes are important. When one thinks of the mission given to the saints in publishing the glad tidings of cternal life through the gospel, and that all may participate in it to some extent, an enthusiasm for magnifying one's calling should be greatly heightened. "I Will Reason With You" In addition to showing forth strong reasons to those who came unto him (see D & C 45:10), LESSON DEPARTMENT the Lord says he will prophesy as he gave forth prophecy to men in days of old. (See D & C 45:15.) But of what shall he prophesy? Of those things which are in the minds of the saints today and were in the meridian dispensation. His disciples during the Redeemer's earthly mission asked him what would be the signs of his coming in the clouds of heaven? In verses 16 and 17 from Section 45; notice that the Lord uses language in the present tense as though he were speaking directly to his disciples of old. (See also Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 259.) Continuing his prophecy of events of the meridian dispensation, Jesus foretold to his disciples the destruction of the temple (Cf. Mt. 24:1-2; Luke 21:23-24. Read D&C 45:18-20. ) How literally was this prophecy fulfilled? A summary of the siege and destruction of the temple and the city of Jerusalem, including the scattering of the Jews, is given in the account of Josephus: The Wars of the Jews, VI. (Read Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, pp. 261-262.) As one continues reading Section 45, it is discovered that what the Lord declares therein is fulfilled in the description of the desolation given by Josephus, which came upon the Jews of the meridian dispensation: And it shall come to pass, that this generation of Jews shall not pass away until every desolation which I have told you concerning them shall come to pass (D & C 45:21). Following this prophecy, Jesus 843 said to his disciples, according to this revelation, that they said they knew "that the end of the world cometh," meaning the destruction of the world (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 1:4, 31) which would be at his second coming, and later on the purification of the earth. Then the assurance was given (in D & C 45:23-24) that their knowledge of these things was true, and all of the prophecies would be fulfilled. As indicated, the material of this revelation, through verse 24, pertains to the generation or dispensation of the meridian of time, but later verses in this lesson (D & C 45:25-42) describe events of the generation in which we live, the dispensation of the fulness of times. Dispensation of the Fulness of Times Even as the Jews were scattered with the destruction of Jerusalem, so their descendants were to be gathered in the last days. But when would those days come? Only after the long period of apostasy from the Church established by the Christ, and then the Church restored to the earth in the last dispensation of the gospel. 'This restoration is described in D & C 45:28. Signs of the Times As foreknown by the prophets, the restoration of the gospel would bring many great changes on the earth. In this revelation the Lord points out:. In that day shall be heard of wars and rumors of wars, and the whole earth shall be in commotion, and men's hearts Shall fail them, and they shall say that Christ delayeth his coming until the end of the earth (D & C 45:26). 844 Needless to state, since the return of the gospel and the Church upon the earth, wars and rumors of wars have increased upon the earth. "Christ delayeth his coming" is another sign of this period, for men teach that Christ will not come until the end of the earth. (Read the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 262). As this revelation unfolds the future for the disciples of old (and now for us of this generation), several signs are given in rapid succession. "And the love of men shall wax cold, and iniquity shall abound" (D & C 45:27). As interpreted by the Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, page 262, this means that because of lawlessness, the majority of men will not have genuine Christian love, which is true, unselfish, and constant. When one thinks of present conditions in reference to the latter part of this verse — that iniquity or wickedness shall abound — there immediately comes to mind the extent of crime and evil practices that are present throughout the world. Regardless of what may be said to the effect that lawlessness has always been present, the presence of organized _and_unorganized evil in the world in the form of sex _immorality, dishonest practices in business, disrespect for human_ beings and life itsclf, are widespread todayand thus they constitute one-of-the signs of the last days. The coldness of men's hearts to the fulness of the gospel is another sign. With the restoration of the gospel to the earth through the Prophet Joseph Smith, the Lord RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZMNE—DECEMBER 1960 said that the world will "... Receive it not; for they perceive not the light, and they turn their hearts from me because of the precepts of men' (D & C 45:29). Although the number of converts to The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is presently increasing in the world, yet, over the time of this dispensation, the number of members of the true Church is very few compared with the population of the world. As predicted, the people of the world will reject the gospel message and thus bring upon themselves the judgment prophesied. As people reject the Lord's plan of salvation and wickedness continues to abound, the time will come when our dispensation "... Shall scc_an overflowing scourge; for a desolating sickness shall cov nd(D-& C 45:31). Other prophecies in the modern revelations reveal, in part, the nature and the extent of such plagues. (See D & C 29:18-19.) Amid the difficulties of the times when the foregoing events occur, the Lord makes known that his ",. Disciples shall stand in holy places, and shall not be moved; but among the wicked, men shall lift up their voices and curse God and die" (D & C 45:32). The disciple is one who is a true follower, and 'as far as this revelation is concerned, is that individual who has accepted Jesus Christ and has thus become a member of his Church. 'These disciples will stand in the places appointed by revelation as gathering places. (See D & C 101:16-21.) Other signs indicating the nearness of the Lord's coming are dcsolations of various kinds. Amid conditions such as floods, dust storms, hurricanes, and other commotions, LESSON DEPARTMENT in which the elements give testimony of the rejection of the Lord's servants, men will continue to harden their hearts and will kill one another and curse God and die. When disciples of old indicated concern about these various signs, assurance was given that " when all these things shall come to pass, ye may know that the promises which have been made unto you shall be fulfilled" (D & C 45:35). By reference to the fig tree shooting forth its leaves as a sign of summer being at hand, so also these various events (see D & C 45:16-33) constitute signs by which the believer will "know that the hour is migh" (D & C 45:38). What is the hqur spoken of? It is the period when the times of the Gentiles shall be fulfilled: "Times of the Gentiles Shall Be Fulfilled" By vision, Nephi was permitted to see the time when Jesus would manifest himself to the Jews first, and then the Gentiles would have the opportunity to accept the fulness of the gospel. Later, however, the Gentiles would have _this privilege first and the Jews last. (See I Ne- "phi 13:42.) Thus the first should. Be last and the last should (Cf Luke 13:28-30.) As we have seen in this lesson, the "times of the Gentiles" are ushered in with the restoration of the gospel in its fulness. (See D & C 45:28-29.) Moroni told Joseph Smith that this time "was soon to come in" (Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:41). Later in the dispensation of the fulness of times, when Jerusalem _is: nO longer trodden down _by the Gentiles, it is to be a sign that the 845 times of the Gentiles are fulfilled (D & C 45:25, 30; Luke 21:24). This sign is to indicate the beginning of the period of transition when the Jews are to receive their opportunity to have the gospel taught to them. Purpose of the Signs of the Times and a Prophet's Answer President Joseph F. Smith, sixth President of the Church, had this to say concerning the purposes of these signs of the times: There are, in the great world of mankind, much social and civil unrighteousness, religious unfaithfulness, and_ great insensibility to the majesty, power, and purpose of our eternal Father and God. In order, therefore, that he may bring the sense of himself and his purposes home to the minds of men, his intervention and interposition in nature and in men's affairs, are demanded. His aims will be accomplished even if men must be overwhelmed with the convulsions of nature to bring them to an understanding and realization of his designs. As long as conditions remain as they are_in the world, none is exempt from these visitations. F The Latter-day Saints, though they - themselves tremble because of their own wickedness and sins, believe that great judgments are coming upon the world because of iniquity; they firmly believe in the statements of the Holy Scriptures, that calamities will befall the nations as signs of the coming of Christ to judgment. They believe that God rules in the fire, the earthquake, the tidal wave, the volcanic eruption, and the storm. Him they recognize as the Master and Ruler of nature and her laws, and freely acknowledge his hand in all things. We believe that his judgments are poured out to bring mankind to a sense of his power and his purposes, that they may repent of their sins and prepare themselves for the second coming of Christ to reign in righteousness upon the earth (Gospel Doctrine, Ninth Edition, pp. 54-55). 846 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 Oucstions for Discussion. What are the functions of a prophet? 2. Why should a Latter-day Saint be obedient to the Lord's will? Why would you think the challenge to be obedient in this dispensation is as great as in other dispensations of the gospel? 4. What are some of the "signs of the times" that are found in this lesson? Give some evidenee of the fulfillment of some of these signs. 5. As stated by President Smith, what do the Latter-day Saints believe about the judgments of the last days? (siting Seacher ITlessages— Truths to Live By From The Doctrine and Covenants Message 30—"... Ye Must Grow in Grace and in the Knowledge of the Truth" (D & C 50:40) Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, March 7, 1961 Objective: The gospel is a plan of salvation through progress. Only by growth in grace and truth can we move toward eternal life. ANY of us have been impressed with the fact that returned missionaries, in their homecoming talks, invariably state their convictions that the period spent in their missionary labors was the happiest in their lives. Undoubtedly, a significant reason for this sense of happiness is because, during the period of their missionary work, they have been engaged exclusively in helping others and in serving the Lord. Another important reason, however, is due to the fact that the period of a missionary's experience ls usually a concentrated time of growth ",.. In grace and in the knowledge of the truth." It is a fact, all too often not fully realized, that happiness and growth in knowledge of truth are closely interrelated. If we grow in useful knowledge, we develop our personalities and abilitics and move forward toward the goal Jesus set for us when he said, "Be ve therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect" (Mt. 5:48). It is this type of progress which: is the essence of genuine happiness and joy. A divine example of the process of growth in grace and truth is that through which the Savior progressed. The scriptures tell us that, " the child grew, and waxed strong im spirit, filled with wisdom: and the grace of God was upon him" (Luke 2:40). When he was a boy of twelve his parents found him in the temple conversing with the wise men and astonishing them with his understanding and knowledge. All that the scriptures tell us about him from this time until the beginning of his ministry, at approximately thirty years of age, is that he "... Mcreased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man" (Luke 2:52). Jesus himself having grown in grace and truth, has sect the example for all of us. Through his own ex- LESSON DEPARTMENT perience he knows the great potentialities for joy and satisfaction that le within the reach of all of us, if we will make the effort to expand our knowledge of the truth, and he has given us the commandment that we "... Must grow in grace and in the knowledge of the truth." In the same section of The Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord promises all of us that, if we will seek after light and continue in God, we will receive more light which will grow "... Brighter and brighter until the perfect day." (See D & C 50:24.) Growth in truth and knowledge seems based on the same principle as growth in physical strength and power. We all know that if we allow a muscle to remain idle, it soon becomes weak and useless. On the other hand, exercise builds and develops strength. It is an absolute truism that the more knowledge of truth we acquire the greater will be our capacity to grasp more and greater truth. Furthermore, it is a significant fact that the acquisition 847 of one truth opens the door to others. Growth in truth and knowledge is a flowering process. As we travel up the road of knowledge, countless new paths open up to our vision, making our journey more and more interesting, beautiful, and challenging. James Russell Lowell wrote, "They must upward still, and onward, who would keep abreast of Truth" (The Present Crisis). Jesus said, "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled" (Mt. 5:6). He also urged us over and over again to seek after knowledge, promising that, if we did so, doors would be opened unto us and we would be blessed with understanding and wisdom. Regardless of how much we may think we know about truth really, our cup is never full. We must never stop learning if we would stay young and virile in mind and spirit. We must seek constantly to grow. If we do so, the Lord has promised that he will feed us from his everflowing fountain of truth. Oi New Serial: ove Ys &nough " to Begin in January A NEW serial, "Love Is Enough," by Mabel S. Harmer, will begin in the January issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The story vividly portrays the joys and problems of Geniel Whitworth, a schoolteacher in Blayney, Idaho, who finds her ideals and ambitions changed by new friends, and new situations which alter the course of her life.