[Vol47 | December 1960 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Theodore | Author: Hinckley]
Theodore Moyle Burton Appointed Assistant to the Council of the 'Twelve Elder Gordon B. Hinckley Assistant to the Council of the Twelve ROUD of his heritage, faithful to his birthright, unflagging in his testimony, and unwavering in his devotion, Theodore Moyle Burton joins the ranks of the General Authorities of the Church as a man with a great inheritance and a record of service and accomplishment. Determined to be a specialist in the field of chemistry, he has repeatedly left his chosen work at the call of the Church and has _performed notably in every assignment given him. He could do little else. His faith is built on the faith of his forebears who sailed the oceans and walked the plains to gather to Zion. Numbéred among them are some of the great pioneers of the Mormon exodus. Most of them were quiet people whose works have gone unsung, but that they were men and women of faith, resourcefulness, and courage can never be contested. Theodore M. Burton was born in Salt Lake City, March 27, 1907, a son of Theodore Taylor and Florence Moyle Burton. He attended the Salt Lake City public schools and the University of Utah. From this latter institution he was graduated in June of 1932. He had interrupted his university education to labor in the Swiss-German Mission from 1927 to 1930. The responsibilities there given him are a testimony of his faithfulness. DurCourtesy the Deseret News ELDER THEODORE MOYLE BURTON ing his mission he served as branch president in Bern, Switzerland, and Altona, Germany, and later as district president in the SchleswigHolstein District. On February 23, 1933, he married his childhood sweetheart, Minnie Preece, in the Salt Lake Temple. At the time he was working as Assistant Salt Lake City Bacteriologist and M. I. A. Superintendent in his home ward. He also was doing work on his Master's Degree which was received from the University of Utah in June of 1934. Page 807 808 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 Courtesy, Church Section, the Deseret News ELDER THEODORE MOYLE BURTON AND IIIS FAMILY Left to right: Elder Theodore Moyle Burton; Minnie Susan Preece Burton; Robert Preece Burton. With fluency in the use of the German language, he secured employment as Technical Assistant to the United States Treasury Attache in Vienna, Austria. He served there from 1934 to 1937 and then took the same post in Berlin, Germany, for another year. I'rom 1941 to 1943 he was instructor in chemistry, physics, and mathematics at Carbon College in Price, Utah. Then in 1943 he moved to Logan to begin a teaching carcer at Utah State University. He has there served as Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Professor of Chemistry. In 1950 he took leave to accept a Westinghouse Electric Rescarch Fellowship at Purdue University where he received his Ph. D. Degree in June of 1951 Six years Jater Dr. Burton inter- THEODORE MOYLE BURTON rupted his professional career at the call of the Church to preside over the West German Mission. Few realize the extent of his tremendous burdens in this post. During most of his tenure he had responsibility for what are now both the West German and the South German Missions and also a number of activities now centered in the European Mission office. During the major period of his presidency he not only looked after the proselyting program and administrative duties of this large mission, but also had responsibility for the very extensive servicemen's program in Europe, administration of an old folk's home, and carried the task of getting into print all publications used in the German-speaking missions of Europe, including a monthly periodical, Der Sterne. His previous training as Sunday School teacher, Scoutmaster, Sunday School superintendent, Bishop of the Cache Fourth Ward, High 809 Councilman in the Cache Stake, and President of the Cache Stake High Priests Quorum had equipped him for these burdensome Church assignments. His wife, who had served as ward Relief Society President, was likewise well schooled for her work as mission Relief Society president. He returned to Logan this past summer to resume his teaching, only to be called again from the classroom to the ministry, this time as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. He brings to this new calling qualities cultivated and developed through long experience. His meticulous attention to detail and his educated curiosity, hallmarks of the scientist, coupled with warmth of personality and an unshakable testimony of the divinity of the Lord Jesus Christ and his restored Gospel, equip him for the high and sacred responsibility which now rests upon him. First Snow all Blanche Kendall McKey All the little things that used to be— Wraith-like trifles of memory— Come drifting back mysteriously. The window shut against the cold Does not disbar them; Like these wavering flakes of snow, Which seem to have no definite place to go, They all float back to the only home they know. A child's first kiss, a birthday rose, a broken kite, A whisper in the hush of night, A tear for old time's sake — Silent, like the fall of flake on flake, They all drift back and seem to be Life's epitome!