[Vol47 | December 1960 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Williams]
While this was going on, Ann, Hal Rumel en yd THE CHRISTMAS TREES THE FAMILY MADE 826 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 aged fifteen, and Janie, eleven, busied themselves cutting pine cones in half to resemble rosebuds. Five-yearold 'Tommy had the time of his life sipping wire into two-and-one-half inch lengths with some tin snips. OTHER Marion was busy cutting a basket in half, gilding it, and filling it with artificial moss. The basket was cut in half so that it would be flat against the door. The materials were all ready at last and everyone helped by dipping the florist wire pieces into glue, then quickly slipping them through the holes in the nuts and into the styrofoam tree. The spaces left exposed were filled in with bits of artificial green foliage. Finally, the styrofoam tree was covered completely with nuts, pine cones, rosebuds, and soft greens. The tree was then planted and held with wire in the golden halfbasket filled with the moss — but before the family could take the tree upstairs to hang on the door, the tree balls to stand on either side had to be made. Into perfectly round balls of styrofoam was inserted a_ brush handle which had been sprayed with gold paint. 'These round handles were planted in flower pots filled with plaster-of-Paris, then placed in old-fashioned milk buckets. 'The handles were inserted into the pots while the plaster was moist and held very straight until the mixture solidified. 'This process didn't take long. The styrofoam balls were then covered with the nuts, cones, and greens in the same manner as the tree for the door was made. Under each ball Anne tied a glistening bow of three-inch-wide gold metallic ribbon. The trees were beautiful and would give perfect balance to the front entrance of the house. When all was in readiness, the family followed Father and Ricky as they carried the tree to the front porch. They watched as Ricky hung the tree with a wire attached to a hook at the top of the front door and then he secured it to the door knocker with another piece of wire. The girls placed the round trees, just so, on either side of the doorway, and father adjusted the spotlight so it would shine brightly on the decorations when dusk descended. With the green door as a background, all the rich tones of the brown nuts and dark foliage, the bright gold of the ribbon bows, handles, and baskets, seemed to radiate in the darkness. We're grateful for the lovely trees created by nature that beautify our land, and we're thankful for the family spirit, the traditions, the joy of having ideas which grow into unusual and picturesque family trees at Christmas. Florence has been blessed with a rare gift of being able to create, to make her ideas materialize into things of beauty, but her greatest blessing is the quality of wanting to share with others her talents and abilities. As she enters her sons' and daughter's houses, on Christmas she will have the satisfaction and great joy to behold the beautiful "Trees the Family Made." William Beal A CONVENTION OF DOLLS Front row, left to might: Jude girl doll in everyday dress; baby doll with bonnet; doll in a party dress. At the back, left: doll wearing pajamas; right: doll in fancy dress. Lets Dress Dolls for Christmas Shirley Thulin TO on the list of every little girl's Christmas desires is a brand new doll, but did you know there is something she really wants more? Family she already has. A new wardrobe for the doll To buy the new dresses, panties, slips, or coats, to clothe her beloved dolls properly, would cost much more than the pennies. Work they once were. Robe. First, look carefully at the doll you are about to dress, and decide her type. Is she a baby doll, a teenage doll, a mother type doll, or a little girl doll? Some dolls also lend themselves to dressing in costumes of Orientals, Europeans, or as pioneers. Little girls love to see their dolls in different costumes. Make at least the following for each price of a new doll, but you can make them yourself for And with the help of some tried and proved shortcuts, they aren't the tedious If you are a grandmother, you can assist with the dolly's warddoll: A nightgown or pajamas, everyday dress, skirt and blouse for the teen doll, party or best dress, coat, robe, and underclothing. Don't forget to make pillows and quilts, or other household extras. They are really a desirable touch. The main thing is to have the accent Page 827 828 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 William Beal BRIDE DOLL AND WINTER DOLL on authenticity. If you make a "leather" belt or purse, it will add just the right touch of "realness" to thrill a little mother. Make belts of leftover oilcloth or plastic. Put tiny pockets in all skirts, coats, or wherever you think one would look nice, and for a touch of realism, which is the secret of dressing dolls, add a tiny, laceedged hanky. Always use the tiniest of buttons or snaps. Too large a button will look cumbersome and take away the miniature appeal. If you have a little sprig of flowers, take them apart and use the little individual blossom for the corsage on a coat, or a touch on a hat. Pearls to go around the doll's neck or to match around the skirt of a party dress can be made from an inexpensive packet of beads. You can also buy many other aids, such as sequins or glitter, but to save moncy, look in your trunk or in the discarded sewing basket, for bits of lace, fur, or other sewing treasures. You will also need some narrow elastic for the panties and pajamas. Second, look over your material. Be sure to use the correct fabric for the article of clothing. Use flannel forthe nightgowns, corduroy or wool for the skirts and coats, nylon or satin for party dresses. If you sew for your daughter, you will really thrill her by making clothes for her doll to match those you have made for her. To make underpanties, use a piece of knitted underskirt, or underwear. Ribbed stocking tops also are good to use. These have "give" to them, and will fit the doll well, and be easy to get on and off. Which brings us to the most important part of making doll clothes. They must be made with an eye to a lot of taking off and putting on. That is the fun of having many clothes for a doll. Making them open all the way down the back is the best way, since most dolls' arms do not bend readily. Snaps can hold the dress or slips together, and the article of clothing will stand much more wear than if it is stitched up too tightly. Sew trim on the sleeves before sewing them together, also sew trim on dresses before completing them. Almost all work can be done on your sewing machine, thereby making the project less of a chore. Third, make a basic dress pattern for each doll. To do this, cut the sleeves and bodice all in one piece as in figure 1. Make it from paper, being sure to allow plenty of room for seams. Try making the dress front as wide as the dell is around. To do this, take a piece of string and measure around the doll's body at the largest part. Then lay the string on the paper and make the dress front that wide. The sleeve should be about as wide as the doll's arms are around. For the back of the dress, you will have to fold the dress front pattern in half down the center, and, putting the fold about one-half inch away from the edge of the material, cut around the sleeves and neck. This makes the back just like the front, except it has room to lap over all the way down for snapping together. (Sec figure 2.) This pattern can be used for blouses, too, except the opening will be down the front, and it will be shorter. After you have the pattern cut out of paper, cut one out of scraps and sew it up the seams. Try it on the doll and make the necessary adjustments.