[Vol47 | December 1960 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Graves]
Enchanted Clothesline Christmas Alice M. Graves HIS was to be the best Christmas ever. As newcomers to Kemmerer, we had lived all summer in a tent in a meadow on the Hams Fork River, and now we had moved into a house. Not much of a house, to be sure, but it had a large kitchenliving room, a small bedroom, and a real floor. Not only all this, but Grandpa and Grandma Morris were to spend Christmas day with us, and to have a turkey roasted by Grandma and to anticipate one of her plum puddings were really something! It seemed that Christmas Eve would never come, but it did, and four little tots begged to go to bed long before dark. But supper dishes must be washed and placed neatly in the cupboard before the big folding bed could be let down in the kitchen. Finally, we were tucked in for the night, four little shining faces, side by side in the big bed. We had no official Christmas tree, but from our bed we could see our clothesline tree, about seven feet up in the air, stretched clear across the room. Near one end hung four stockings, the largest ones we could find. We felt too excited to sleep, but after what seemed an eternity, one by one we drifted off to the land of dreams, while the coal-oil lamp, with its wick turned low, dimly burned on the table. Before daylight we were wide awake, sitting up in bed and gazing in awe at the enchanted clothesline, for bright-colored, sparkling gifts hung from it, all along like Mama's wash on Monday. Luke guessed the train was for him; Mary knew a certain doll must be hers; Orson chose a dozen gifts that he would like; there were toys that I hoped were for me. What fun we had naming each new toy we saw, and guessing which gifts were ours. We knew we must wait till Father built a fire in the big range, for it would never do to get out of bed on a winter morning in Wyoming until the room was warm. But, at last, we were up and dressed, and Father had cut down each child's gifts from the line, and we were happy as. Larks; no one envied anyone else. Santa had known just what gifts each little boy and girl liked best of all. More than fifty-five Christmases have come and gone since then, but not one has been so engraved on my mind, or tugged at my heartstrings as did that sweet, humble Christmas with its enchanted clothesline Christmas tree, in that little frame shack in Wyoming. Mem ores Zara Sabin Life is a looking forward, But somewhere along the way We suddenly find that we look back— It may happen any day. And we learn to our joy or sorrow, In happiness or tears, That we have been making memories All through the years! Page 831 IMly Shird Grandma Parr IV — Nanopi Ilene H. Kingsbury UR air machine cruised with a quict throbbing of multiple engines at the height of 20,000 feet above the South Pacific. It was five in the morning and even as far "down under' the earth as we were, the same soft light covered the clouds and the atmosphere as it does at home in the Southwest of North America. 'Through the window we stretched our gaze to see whether the waters of the deep were still below, or whether our pilot had at last decided to ignore the earth's pull and try an astral exploration on his own. At that moment the stewardess made her good morning salutation. But who cared at that unearthly hour, we said to ourselves! She went on to caution us to fasten our seat belts, for we would land shortly in Nandi. As I said, the early hour and the clouds below created an unbelievable atmosphere. I responded by saying, out loud, "But that's the name of Grandma Morgan's cow!" Odd that I hadn't remembered this when we received our itinerary for a flight to New Zcaland, that spring of 1958, and had read that Fiji was one of our landings, and at Nandi International Airport, at that. But here we were rapidly losing altitude. Even now there was not a trace of the seas below us, let alone that minute piece of earth that scarcely merited a place on the map. Pray that the pilot had read page 34 of his manual and could find it. Pray that Nandi was really there and Page 832 hadn't existed just because Grandma once had a cow by that name. All that day on Fiji I lived in two worlds. One was that of Grandma Morgan's era in the last century. The other was the most modern present with highways and a taxi journey of eighty miles to a coral beach. 'There, under leaning palm shade, we watched natives scoop out from a sandy oven, dug deep, a feast of fish, cach tasty bit woven into marvels of palm frond basketry. Two races live on Fiji. The first race consists of the natives of Fiji, each person with a bushel basket of kinky hair trained with brooms and wet lime to stand up and out from the head. The second is an imported population of malcontents from India. No feature of eye or skin or hair of the East Indians even slightly resembles those of their hosts. The Indians are to be seen on lonely roads or bunched in the shade of trading centers in the frequent villages, although they are said to outnumber the Fijians at present. The men from India wear turbans wound in ceremonial pattern. The women cling to Mother India's style of the long, flowing outer garments and the draped sari of exquisite workmanship. 'They are never for a moment to be confused with the other race with whom they have lived for generations. The tortuous road over Fiji followed every up and down clevation of the island, which is the top of a mountain range that crawls the bot- MY THIRD GRANDMA tom of the Pacific. After a day of feasting and swimming in a paradise called Corolavu Bay, we careened back to Nandi. J kept thinking of my grandma and hoped to see her counterpart now that I did not have to go to Calcutta to find her. But the women were retiring. Only one daughter of India could be found. Beside a road she waited. Her coral sari was folded over her dark, straight hair, billows of silk followed the contour of her shoulder, a Grecian fold of it fell to her sandals. In her arms she held a child, all eyes, limpid as a well. At her side, or rather sidling behind her mother, was a replica of what Grandma Morgan must have been when she gracefully fanned her mistress in the southern India garden over a hundred years ago. Grandma's old white cow, of the 833 Southern Utah community, kept coming to mind. [ remembered that she had always insisted that it was Nandi and not Mandy, and we had sort of indulged her in the spelling and the pronunciation. Now I found out that she had been right all of the time. 'The ancient worship in India of the white bull called Nandi is memorialized in this modern airstrip in Fiji. As these people adventured the ocean through the down under part of the world, they took with them their culture and left place names to remind them of their heritage. Nandi, the guardian of all quadrupeds, lives forever! Dear little, old, generous Third Grandma and her cow called Nandi! She brought a culture to the valleys of the mountains the like of which, and the source of which could never have been dreamed up by the most fanciful fiction writer. I was homesick in Nandi! At Winters &dge Dorothy J. Roberts I felt there was no beauty left; The snow lay tattered on the ground. Then far above the winter's wane I found one alabaster mound As flawless as a dome of pearl. No stem of mallow marred its face; Only a single lavaliere Of doe-tracks twined around its base. There, circled by a ring of trees, Whose wakening stems wore saffron dye, I let my hunger take its fill Against the opal of the sky. Orchids in the Snow CuapTer § (Conclusion) Rosa Lee Lloyd EWS of the wedding scurried around the village like a rollicking breeze. McFarland had explained to Jewel before their departure, that everyone should know about the event and be included in the preparations for the reception. "That was the wav thev lived in Bristol. 'They enjoyed each other's happiness and shared each other's sorrows. Gifts of skins of bear, wolf, and seal, and treasured bits of gold and rock came from Eskimos, Indians, Aleuts, and white people. A hunter from the tundra brought antlers that were too wide to be brought inside, so Sam fastened them to the top of the porch. "Thev can almost see them from the landing strip," Marie said, as she and Sharry watched Sam. "Jewel and Daddy will be married tomotrrow. They should be back the next day. Hi, Mama Sue and Uncle Herman, look at the antlers. Aren't they the grandest ever? He must have been king of the herd!" Susan and Herman were walking up the path. They smiled and nodded. "The grandest!" Herman repeated. Each day the walk over from the house next door was more difficult for Herman, but he always made the effort to come. He enjoyed the music and gaiety and long talks with Sam about Alaska. 'Today Susan was carrying a package as though it was something precious. Page 834 "This is for Jewel," she said to Sharry and Martie, as they followed her inside. '""We must work quickly to be ready for the reception." "Trust Mama Sue," Marie said, kissing Susan's cheek as she opened the package, displaying a large, velvety white doeskin. "Jewel's dress,' Susan said. "McFarland will want her dressed this way. I have one more I am saving for Swenson's bride—if he marries in Bristol. 'This is the only place I know where it is appreciated." "How lovely!" Sharry exclaimed. "Pm sure Aunt Jewel will appreciate it." "We'll make it princess style," Susan told them. "You girls can sew seams while I bead it. Each seam must be done by hand, just so. Come, let's get busy." Susan spread the skin on the dining-room table and cut the leather with a razor blade. She showed Sharry and Marie how every stitch must be done exactly nght so they would hold. It was a tedious job, but the girls were happy doing it. VERYONE was up at. Six o'clock on the morning of the reception, to meet McFarland's plane. He had radioed that they would arrive about seven o'clock. Marie drove sled, and even Herman, bundled up in a big fur parka, went to the airstrip to meet them. Many of the villagers were there, although no one knew who had told ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW them what time the plane would arrive. McFarland, his face beaming happiness, walked down the stair-lift first, then reached for Jewel, who was so rosy beautiful she seemed to light up the turquoise darkness. A little Eskimo boy, not over six years old, pushed his way through the crowd with a white husky puppy for Jewel. She accepted it smilingly, her hand resting a moment on its head. XCITEMENT was in the air. Everyone laughed and _ talked until McFarland finally persuaded the villagers to go home until time for the wedding reception. Jewel stood in front of the fireplace cuddling the puppy, but her eyes were troubled. "It's his special prize puppy," she protested to McFarland. "He told me so. How can I take a little boy's puppy away from him? I must give it back to Joey." McFarland's eyes sobered as he looked down at her. "No," he said, "you shouldn't give it back to him. Don't you realize it made him feel like a king to give it to you? We can pay him back in a dozen ways, Jewel, but I wouldn't let you refuse that gift for an ocean full of salmon!" "McFarland is right, Jewel," Herman offered gently. "Who was the poet who said that the only things we ever keep are the things we give away? 'That's the way it will be with Joey. Every time he sees you with that puppy he'll get a happy feeling all over again." Jewel was silent as she cuddled the white, furry puppy. Sharry, watching her, was lonely for little 835 Nuzzle. She remembered how he had chosen her for his very own the first time he had seen her. "What will you name him, Aunt Jewel?" she questioned. Jewel shook her head. "Tl have to think about it," she said. "He's a bouncy little guy," McFarland said. "Look at that happy little face. He seems full of chuckles." JEWELS face was a sunburst. "That's it!" she laughed. "We'll name him Chuckles. That just suits him, the cute little thing." "The cute little thing needs a bath," Susan said in her practical way. "There will be enough hot water for him after we have all had our showers and shampooed our hair. 'This is a big day — we must get busy before anyone comes. Time goes so fast." Buckets of snow had been melted the night before for baths and shampoos. Susan dropped some blackberry juice into the rinse water for her hair. "Won't it be sticky?" Sharry questioned. "I don't use that much," Susan answered. "I've kept my hair black this way." "I wish I had some magic that would cure my freckles," Marie pouted. "We love your freckles," Jewel said. "They are little dabs of pure gold. You wouldn't be you without them." McFarland brought out a white: shirt and tie for Sam to wear. "I only use these when I'm in the city," he said. "But the girls have made this a big show so we'll ride along, too. I heard that all the villagers 836 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1960 are wearing bright woolen scarfs. Seems that Susan has been around." After the showers and the shampoos, Susan scrubbed little Chuckles until he was a white furry ball. Then McFarland looked at his wrist watch. "Well, Sam, we'll just have time to dress and eat a bite before we meet the plane bringing some special guests." Sam stood up and put the book he had been reading on the table. He stretched his arms above his head lazily. "I've had a good rest up here," he said. "It's been a real vacation for us. I'm sorry we have to take the regular plane home during the reception. But I'm due back at school tomorrow!" "So am J!" Marie said suddenly. "But 'm not going. I want to help Mama Sue get ready for Swen!" Jewel's eyes were startled. She had thought that Marie would be with Sharry in Fairbanks. Sharry did not want Jewel to worry about her. Nothing must shadow her happiness today. McFarland, standing with his back to the fireplace, looked at Marie quizzically. Sharry wondered if he knew why she was really staying longer. His heavy brows puckered together, thoughtfully. He didn't want Marie to be hurt. And yet, he believed in going after what you wanted in life. "What time does your plane leave, Sharry?" Jewel asked. Her voice was strained. "Seven o'clock," she answered. "Sam says we'll make good connections in Anchorage. We'll be home by midnight." "We should be getting ready," Marie said. "I'll go home with Susan and dress there." After Sam and McFarland left, Sharry followed Jewel into the bedroom. "It won't take us long," she said. "First PH comb your hair and you can comb mine. Aren't those white mukluks Susan made for you too cute for words!" Sharry could see the snow-packed roadway from the bedroom window as she stood at the dressing table combing Jewel's hair into wavy swirls around her head. "Your veil will fit perfectly with your hair this way," she said. At that moment she caught sight of the dog-sled coming up the snowy road. Sam was on the back rudders driving. His head was tipped back, and he was laughing as though it was great sport. She had not known Sam could drive sled. He must have learned while he was out alone when the girls were busy sewing. "Who are those three men?" Jewel asked. "One of them is Bishop Harrison," Sharry answered. She didn't mention a big square box McFarland carried in his arms. She was so curious to know what was inside she could hardly wait until the reception, only a half-hour away. VERYONE was ready by twelve o'clock. Even little Chuckles. Marie and Susan came into the bedroom as Sharry adjusted Jewel's veil on her shining hair., "Beautiful!" Marie said. Prettiest bride in the Arctic. And look at us! Won't Daddy be proud. He's waiting, Jewel. You'll love to meet Bishop Harrison.