[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | September | Issue: 7 | Title: XLVII. | Author: Unknown]

XLVII.
	Maitland’s letter telling of Clair Hilliard’s
death in a foreign land, together with Sid-
ney’s departure for England, and the pecu-
liar feelings brought about by the existing
circumstances, had a depressing effect even
upon Mrs. Harrison’s even temperament;
she could not altogether enter into the do-
mestic duties, with the zest and cheerfulness
natural to her, not even in the presence of
the children. Unusual to her former habit
she would take long drives and solitary
walks, and fancied she could thus throw off
the melancholy which seemed to haunt her.
The conversation with her husband con-

[Column 2]
cerning family events at the old place so
dear to her recollection had brought clearly
before her the beautiful scenery of rural
England, with all its delicious settings of
castles, towers, parks and grounds and the
various environments that have such a
strong hold upon the true English character.
She saw these things in a sort of dreamy
haze, as she went about her daily occupa-
tions, and though she strove against it, she
could not quite erase it from her mind’s
eye. The time seemed long while waiting
for letters, and she prayed more fervently
than ever before, that all might be well,
that the children of her beloved cousin Anna
might come to her, and the posterity of her
uncle, might yet be a blessing upon
the earth. Her prayer was answered
by a dream, which gave her gr at comfort
as regarded Anna's children, even though
she realized she had yet to undergo her
greatest trial, and to stand as it were alone.
Strange that one individual should be
called to pass through the fiery furnace of
affliction unhelped as it were, except by the
unseen, while others reared under the same
roof seldom or never know what such or-
deals are. Yet it is these severe afflictions
that rend the human soul, that teach the
deepest lessons, that strengthen the highest
attributes, and lead upward to the divinest
attainments possible to humanity.
	Had Jane Conway known when leaving
her mother’s grave to visit her uncle at
Hilliard castle, all it would involve, she
would not have had the courage equal to
such efforts, but coming one by one these
trials only helped to develop the possibili-
ities of her character, and she rose from each
one, better prepared to undergo the next,
though it should be still darker and heavier.
Her life with Robert Harrison might have
been almost a dream of happiness, but for
others in whom she took such a deep inter-
est, as to throw dark shadows across the
sunshine, and then the war had taken him
from her, and she knew not what the result
might be, but she made the sacrifice nobly
as became the grand women of those old
days, and felt the cause, was worthy the
lives of the greatest and best men of the age.
Yet she would have grieved none the less,
had Robert been slain.
	Mrs. Harrison felt in her inmost soul
that a dark shadow was hovering near her,
sometimes she shivered with a sort of terror
when alone, and felt she must tell her hus-
band of these gloomy forebodings but she
did not like to be considered visionary as in
such a case it would appear, nor even admit
it to herself.
	This condition of mind no doubt caused
the dream which changed affairs very ma-
terially. Mrs. Harrison had been longing
with impatience for letters from Sidney,
and as yet none had been received. She
had one evening sat up very late talking
with her husband of the past and anticipa-
ting what the future was likely to be, and
had gone to bed about midnight weary,
and somewhat excited over the events of
the past and present.
	She dreamed she was alone in the old
castle; she called and no one answered; she
wandered through the rooms, they were
deserted and dismal; the great elms and oaks
were moaning and bending with the fierce
night wind; she could hear its shrieks and
the crackling of the limbs, as one after
another broke loose and swung to the
ground, and she peered out into the dark-
ness, just as one great tree fell with a loud


[Column 1]
crash, broken by the raging tempest, shak-
ing the old house to its very foundations;
and then the moon shone out of the dark
clouds, and its pale light revealed to her,
the midnight scene; within and without all
was destruction and confusion, but she
heard voices calling her, Anna’s children,
and she clasped them in her arms, and
reaching out there were her own and Clair’s
son—“all the children are here,” she said,
almost with a wail half aloud “and am I
indeed left alone, of all those who ever
trod these halls?” And she burst into such
sobs of weeping, as to rouse her husband
from his slumbers. In her excitement
which proved quite hysterical, she declared
they must go to England, and though she
had always insisted upon remaining in
America, she could not be dissuaded from
going; as day after day brought no news
from Sidney, it was finally decided upon:
the house was left in charge of trustworthy
people, and the Major with his wife and
children, including Clair’s boy Edward,
set sail for England. Jane Harrison had
never told her husband the dream, she
could not muster the courage, but she felt if
she could see Sidney Barrington, he would
help her to bear the burden, which seemed
too much to carry alone. She knew with
his sympathetic nature, and his sublime
trust in God, he would understand: his
prayers had been a source of uplifting
many times heretofore, and she had un-
bounded faith in his integrity to the new
Gospel, which she had embraced as her
sole guide and help through life, and which
was to be, her solace in death, and hope
beyond the grave. She felt nearer to the
Lord when with this minister of the Gos-
pel, and richer in spiritual strength; she had
not quite learned the lesson of trusting in
God for herself, and relying solely upon
Him.
	The voyage across the ocean was a pleas-
ant one, nothing occurred to mar its serenity,
and on arriving at the landing in England,
they immediately set out for the old home of
the Hilliards; the journey was very inter-
esting, as the Major knew the country
thoroughly, and was able to point out the
most noticable features in their travels, and
give vivid descriptions and incidents both
amusing and instructive to Jane and the
children. The journey was most delight-
ful, the whole country seemed to be clothed
in robes of autumnal splendor. It may be
truly said of Jane Harrison that she was
solemnly and tranquilly happy, the scenery,
the fact of being once more on her native
soil, that she was to revisit the grave of her
mother, see the dear old castle once more,
wonderful memories, and then to meet An-
na’s children, was indeed a heartfelt pleas-
ure in anticipation Sometimes a thought
would come of her husband’s first love, the
wife of her uncle, and the mother of her
dear departed cousin; and she could not
help conjecturing whether he too, had a
wish to visit her grave, but she would not
harbor a moment’s jealousy of one so true
and constant; yet she knew how he had
suffered for Clarice Courtney, and indeed
was better acquainted with the private
histories of the people, who had lived in
and around Hilliard castle, than even her
husband suspected. She had locked up in
her heart, many unwritten histories of the
past few years; what a pity she could not
have written them, but the best things,
the truest, the most precious, and the finest
gems, are those which are buried the deepest

[Column 2]
in the hearts recesses: one catches now and
then an occasional flash of their radiant
brilliancy, but it is only for the moment;
but when we shall know as we are known,
then we may hope to see and comprehend,
all that is highest, and most excellent, in
the human soul; and we shall find it where
we least expected such nobility existed.
	Hilliard castle was reached at last, the
children were exultant, and were allowed
to give unbounded expression to their de-
light, the mother felt deeply, but was self-
controlled, even Major Harrison cast aside
his old prejudices, and partook of the en-
thusiasm of the hour. After partaking re-
freshments and going over the house, and
making various inquiries, a messanger was
dispatched to Walton Hall to find out the
whereabouts of Maitland and Sidney,
Meantime the visitors went through the
grounds adjacent to the house. Many im-
provements had been made, yet much re-
mained unchanged, and Mrs. Harrison was
almost overcome with the remembrances
that pressed upon her, as she went from one
to another of the familiar places. Of the
old servants there were only three she had
ever seen, in Mrs. Burke’s place a young
woman was installed, who knew nothing of
the house or its belongings, she had mar-
ried and come from “up country” to
take charge with her husband who was
managing “the farming land and the
meadows.” The old warden who lived in
the park was the only one to give informa-
tion, he was an ardent admirer of the young
master, and told them how kind he had
been to the people on the place and of other
matters of great interest to Mrs. Harrison;
he remembered her distinctly as Jane Con-
way, and never tired of telling of her “boss-
ing the old Maister,” but he grew
garrulous when he spoke of “good Doctor
Bland” and Jane hurried away lest the
Major should feel embarrassed with such
extravagant laudations of her first husband,
though he could scarcely consider him a
rival in her affections. The old man told
them that a youngish man like a foreigner
had been there several times recently with
men from London, going over everything
inside and outside, "I know naught about it,
not even their names, they questioned me a
great deal, but I know little of the things
they asked about, “as I al’ays minds my
own bizness.” However they had not
long to wait—Maitland came in response to
the message, on horseback, and after greet-
ings were over, told them Sidney was in
London with the lawyers; and would be
back in a day or two; that arrangements
were made leaving Anna’s children equal
with Edward, except the title, and the old
castle; and that the final settlements would
soon be completed. Walton was in un-
usually high spirits, anxious the Major and
his family should dine at Walton Hall at
the earliest date possible for them, to which
they readily consented, the children were
doing finely and evidently expected great
things.
	All the sad presentiments which had
haunted Mrs. Harrison before leaving
America had vanished, and she gave her-
self up to the full enjoyment of the sojourn
at the old homestead. She knew it could
only be a short visit, as her husband must
return to his business which was very im-
portant, and she felt it was the children’s
privilege, to enjoy to the utmost the op-
portunity of seeing and appreciating—
and realizing as far as possible, what an an-

[Column 3]
cestral home really was; feeling it would
impress all their after life.
	A message sent to London immediately
on learning Sidney’s address was answered
by himself in person, arriving as quickly as
the journey could be made; he had much
to tell, but most of it satisfactory to all con-
cerned. Clair had not forgotten his cousin
Jane and had left her a legacy of money
and valuables, with the guardianship of his
boy’s training and education; confided to
her care the direct heir to her uncle’s estate
and title. This expression of his respect
and love she prized beyond all else, and so
the daughter of the cast off sister of the
stern old Baronet, come in a way to be the
arbiter of the destiny of the Hilliard race.
“Things do take a turn,” on the wheels of
time, be it ever so slowly.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.

