EDITORIAL/A Blessing For The Hemispheres**

In a time of the changing of seasons, when the hours of sunlight are altered, when the northern hemisphere receives increasing length of days, and the southern hemisphere turns to a longer night, the women of Relief Society look forward to a new program for the coming months and summarize and review the developments of the time which has passed.

Then again, time changes and summer is long and beautiful in the southern lands and winter comes to the north. Also, in those regions of lasting summer, where less evidence of varying weather is apparent, the work of Relief Society continues in its learning, serving, sharing. Its companionship and compassion continue.

It is a significant thought for all of us to realize the many and far-reaching homelands of the sisters—the towns and the cities and the rural areas where the sisters live and care for their homes and their families and devote themselves to the equally far-reaching program of Relief Society. The sisters do not regard the wide oceans, the skyward mountain ranges, and the great deserts as dividing the womanhood of the world. They think of the green valleys, the long rivers, the uplands and the lowlands of the many nations as the native lands, the homes of the world-wide sisterhood.

There is no ocean, no mountain range, no expanse of desert or prairie—no barrier of land or sea that can divide the sisters of Relief Society, for they are the same in ideals and aspirations—the same in faith and devotion, the same in their desires to follow the teachings of the gospel, and to be a pattern and example of womanhood to the world.

It was for all of us in every land that the Prophet Joseph Smith, in 1842, revealed the pattern and declared in long treasured words the purpose of an organization for the sisters—the first auxiliary in the Church. He addressed the women assembled before him and said that their desire for organization was "accepted of the Lord | will organize the sisters under the priesthood," he said, "after a pattern of the priesthood." And later the Prophet declared that the Church was never perfectly organized "until the women were thus organized."

In our time and in our place, we rejoice in the continued purpose

**Volume —Number 5**

Belle S. Spafford, President
Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor
Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor
Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer

Elna P.