The everlasting hills speak of God to me.

This is my cradle, my childhood, mature years, my life. My joys, my sorrows, my pleasure, and my pain echo from me and resound from these hills and proclaim, "Like the everlasting hills, life is eternal." 

It was a beautiful morning. A sky of purest azure held a gleaming white-gold sun that turned the vast beds of snow stretching beneath to sparkling crystal brilliance. Kari Kay Jackson leaned her elbows on the window sill and with her chin cradled in both hands surveyed the glory of the mid-winter Alaskan morning.

Ordinarily, her heart would have swelled to bursting at the beauty of the spectacle before her, but even this rare morning could not alleviate the gloom that lay around her heart. It had been a year now since Tom had brought her as a bride to this vast frontier country. They had worked hard to make a home in the wilderness. They had done quite well, she thought, even though they hadn't had much with which to work.

Red-checked curtains sewed by her own hands lined the windows of her large square kitchen. The white cushioned linoleum covering the bare plywood flooring had been installed perfectly by Tom. The furniture was rough hewn but carefully varnished. And the bedroom even had wall-to-wall carpeting. Tom had thought that something of an extravagance, but Kari had managed to talk him into it on the premise that the bare wood floor would be terribly cold during the long spells of sub-zero weather. Besides, it was the new kind that could be used outdoors on patios, and she cleaned it easily herself.

Next year they planned to put in running water and add another bedroom. If there was a next year. The thought struck her miserably. She was seriously considering leaving. She and Tom had settled into such a routine. There just didn't seem to be much excitement anymore. And as the excitement faded, Kari was beginning to doubt that they truly shared a lasting love.

Then, too, she missed the Church so much. And the isolation from the talk and companionship of other women was bearing heavily upon her. She loved Relief Society, and often felt a great need for the lessons and sustaining spirituality of other sisters. Never had Kari Jackson felt so deeply the need for other women about her.

And while she and Tom had been married in the temple, the priesthood did not seem so close and protective out here where the land reached so far beyond the eye. Before she had left home, Bishop West had admonished her to carry the Church into the wilderness harbored safely in her heart. He had counseled her never to allow separation from a chapel and other members to separate her from the gospel itself.

But it just wasn't that easy. Unhappiness was settling down around her like a cold fog when she noticed the short, full figure approaching the cabin. She smiled at the sight of the little woman slogging through waist-high snow, and this morning the thermometer had registered forty degrees below zero!

Running to the door, Kari pulled it open just as her visitor was lifting a mittened hand to knock.

"Good morning, Annie! You must be frozen! Come in, I have some hot chocolate on the stove."

The little native lady, her face wreathed in smiles, kicked the snow from her boots and stepped into the warm kitchen. "Ahhhhh," she breathed, "that heat feels good. Very cold today. Nice though. Think maybe you go ice fishing with me."

Kari took the heavy parka, trimmed so beautifully with the fur of the wolf and wolverine, and hung it on a peg by the door. She looked at the brown, full face, with the eager lights dancing in the dark eyes.

"Oh, not today, Annie," she sighed. "How come? You been wanting to go so bad. You not sick?"

The black almond eyes were full of concern as her work-worn hand smoothed her heavy black hair mussed by the parka hood.

" Oh, no, nothing like that." Kari smiled, warmed by the woman's concern. "I just don't feel like doing much."

Annie Andrews was a bright spot for Kari in this lonely country. She and her husband, Wassillie, lived not far away in their own cabin. They had seven children and somehow managed to house them all in one room. They still clung to the old native ways and had not been much influenced by the white man. They were good people, and to be admired for their loyalty to each other and love of their family.

Wassillie was typically native, quiet, and efficient at providing for his family from whatever the land had to offer, and content to live as his Indian ancestors had for hundreds of years.

Annie was different in every way. Talkative, bright, and interested in everything, she was the most truly cheerful person Kari had ever met. She talked incessantly, her conversation so fast and lively it was impossible not to be happily infected by it. Now, looking at Kari's cloudy expression, she settled herself at the kitchen table in an attitude of listening.

"We talk now," she stated matter-of-factly.

Kari gave a little sigh, poured them both a cup of hot chocolate, experiencing the little jump of pleasure she always felt when she used the earthenware cups from her wedding dishes, and sat down across the table from Annie who waited in attentive silence.

"T don't know, Annie," Kari began uncertainly. "Everything has changed. Tom seems so distant and I miss the Church terribly, Sunday School, sacrament meeting, and, especially, Relief Society. My spirituality seems to be almost gone. Everything is so...so..." she searched for the right word, "so difficult! Building the house and fixing it up was fun. Tom showing me how to hunt and fish, and how different everything is here. But now that's all over. It's just day after day of sameness. The morning melts into afternoon and the afternoon's covered by darkness. Nothing new or exciting or different. Nothing to look forward to when you get up in the morning."

She stopped, expecting sympathy and support, but Annie sat silently looking at Kari as though trying to see inside her heart to what lay there. Finally, she spoke slowly and thoughtfully.

"The Church you talk about. This is the one with what you call temples so people can marry forever. Where men have the right to do work in God's name, and children are made to belong to their mother and father forever also?"

"Yes."

"I remember," Annie continued softly, "I have thought about these things very much. I think they are good things."

You told me, too, that you made promises to God, and if you kept these promises God would give you many blessings." "Yes." "Did God promise these things to come easy?" she demanded quietly. Kari looked at her hands encircling the cup of hot chocolate. "No," she whispered, shame creeping into her young face as she remembered the sealing temple service. Annie continued, a gentle note of scolding in her voice. "Did God promise all excitement and only good things?" Kari could not answer. "I am not Mormon as you are called, but I am Christian. I do not believe that God wanted things to be easy for us. If it were easy to catch the king salmon, we would not enjoy eating it so much, and we would learn nothing. I think marriage is very hard. Marriage teaches us all things we need to know. The lessons are hard, but they bring most happiness too. Sometimes when I am tired from pulling the fish nets or scraping the skin of seals, I wish not to be married and have so much work to do. But I think life would mean nothing to me then." Sometime Wassillie get very far away from me, and I do not know what to do. But I pray hard, and God helps me bring my husband back close and I think this is the way God meant it should be for us. We should work very hard to do right. If we do not work hard, we learn nothing, make nothing good. Marriage is the hardest work of all." She stopped and began to sip the hot chocolate in her cup. Silence fell around them. Neither spoke for a long time. Finally, Kari found her voice. "Thank you, Annie. I had almost forgotten how things should be. I wanted the newness and excitement of my marriage to stay forever. It's beginning to wear off, and I didn't want to settle down really to being married. I nearly forgot that I must try with all my strength to keep my promises and deserve God's blessings." A repentant Kari vowed to herself not to think about giving in when things were not just as she wanted them. And she, too, would pray to keep her husband close to her. She would never, never, allow her spirituality to ebb so low that her covenants with her Heavenly Father might slip from her. She looked at the little native lady, a simple woman with the wisdom of a queen. She gave a prayer of thankfulness to God for giving her a friend like Annie. Jumping up from the table, she said, "Annie! Let's go ice fishing. It's a beautiful morning!" 

Note on the Poem "'My Three Sons" The poem, "My Three Sons, Thomas, Harold, and Richard," which appeared in the March issue of The was paraphrased from the poem, "My Sons" by Grace Noll Crowell, which has appeared in Harper and Row publications. Margaret L. Phelps Southampton, England

g Emily May fumbled in her purse for the correct fare; her hands, stiff with arthritis, refused to manipulate the coins, but at last, in triumph she produced the correct money to give to the patiently waiting bus conductor, and he smiled down at her benevolently. As the bus continued its journey, Emily May settled back in her seat and became lost in thought—was it only this morning that the letter came about the new flat? She had hurried down to the council offices to find out all about it, and couldn't believe that it had happened, they were going to pull down her old cottage and move her to a new housing estate. What about her garden? She could see the workmen's boots trampling down her carefully planted bulbs and her precious 352 primroses, and the rose bushes would never bloom this summer, or any other now, all this was to go, and for her it would be a luxury flatlet. "Luxury!" She startled herself by saying the word out loud, and quickly looked around to see if anybody was giving her strange looks, but no, everyone was too preoccupied with his own deep thoughts. "Anyone for Redleigh Post Office?" the conductor's voice called along the bus. "Yes, me!" Emily May hadn't realized she was at her destination and had to jump up quickly, an embarrassed look on her face, as she felt people watch her move slowly along towards the platform to disembark. "I'm terribly sorry not to have got up sooner." "That's all right, lady, we've got all day," and the bus conductor took her arm and descended the platform with her to the pavement. She took from her bag the crumpled piece of paper with the directions that the man at the Council Offices had given her, and she made her way along the wide white pavements, feeling strange and alien. Eventually, she found the block of flats where her future home was situated and looked up at the massive construction in awe and apprehension, but then her sharp blue eyes narrowed, her face, with skin like wrinkled paper, became set, and, bracing her shoulders, she marched across the flagged courtyard as best she could manage. Once inside, the automatic lift was the next obstacle, and she surmounted this by waiting for another person to arrive on the scene and explain the workings of that particular marvel of man's invention. A few seconds later and the door of her flat was before her. It was clean and bright with pale distempered walls, tiled floors, and large picture windows, not quite so bad as Emily May had imagined, but she felt out of place within the walls of this building. For a while she stood contemplating the bareness of it all, her feelings surging inside of her, feelings of despondency and loneliness, then, holding on to the wooden surround of the fireplace, she eased herself to the floor and poured out her heart to the only one who could possibly understand. "Dear God, why couldn't things 'And When Ye Shall Receive These Things' have been left as they were, just for a little while longer. I would so much have liked to spend my last days in the home that John and I made together. We had so many happy times there, a sad time, too, when the news came that our two sons had been killed in the war. All my life has been wrapped up in that cottage, and now it is to be pulled down. Why? Oh, why?" Emily May knelt silently with her head bowed, the sun shining on her diminutive body. The time slipped by, and she still knelt there. Somehow she was at peace and felt near to her Heavenly Father. Her thoughts sped back over the years, and she could hear the words that her father had spoken so long ago, when she failed to win a ribbon for pony events in the local contest. "Now, Emily May, don't get so upset. Things don't always go the way you expect or want them."

Sometimes we fail in things when we have tried our best, and sometimes it seems that we have troubles heaped upon us, but the Lord works in a strange way, and most of these things turn out for the best." Yes, thought Emily May, who am I to expect the world to revolve around me, and anyway, as Father used to say, the Lord sometimes works in a strange way, and I may yet see the reason for things happening as they have. With these thoughts, she began to rise from her knees. It was a very painful process after kneeling in one position for so long, but she was compensated by the peace that now filled her mind. 

It was one week later that Emily May moved her belongings to her new home, and it was while she was standing in the corridor, near the lift, supervising the men unloading the furniture, that she first saw the two young men. They had come from one of the flats further along the passageway, and a young lady, who must have been the occupant, was seeing them to the lift. It was she who spoke.

" Oh, are you just moving in? I expect you could do with some help."

"Well, yes," said Emily May, dubiously. "Perhaps we could help you get your furniture in place."

It was the taller of the two young men who spoke, and Emily noticed that he had an American accent.

"Well, I was worrying about how to get everything straight, and my arthritis does make things difficult. Yes, I would be very pleased with your help."

She was quite surprised at herself, inviting complete strangers into her home, but they had such open faces, and she really did need the help. In no time at all, things were beginning to look tidier, although still rather bare. The helpers were wonderful company and kept her laughing the whole time.

As she was putting out the photographs of her late husband and sons, she went to call one of the young men from the other room and realized that she didn't know his name.

"Do you realize, I don't know your names?"

At this invitation, they began telling her about themselves. 
First, the taller of the two men spoke, and it seemed that his name was Elder Jameson and he came from Salt Lake City to England on a two-year mission for The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The second man's name was Elder Thomas from California. His parents had gone there from Wales when he was a baby, and he was also a missionary. The lady from along the corridor was Sister Jean Tanner, and she was also a member of the same Church. The elders had just been visiting her when they all met.

Emily May was a little stunned for a while when she realized that they were "Mormons." All those stories that she had heard about them came pouring into her mind, but somehow she couldn't feel any fear in the company of these young people, but she didn't particularly want to get involved with such a strange set of people, either.

Elder Thomas spoke, "Would you like to know more about the Church, Mrs. Cross?"

"Oh, no, no. I'm too old to change my ways now, but thank you for all your help; it really has been appreciated."

They didn't press her any further, but just continued to clean and tidy up as if nothing had happened, and when finished they left with a cheerful goodbye.

It wasn't until about an hour later that Emily May found the book with the pamphlets inside. She was about to take them down to Jean Tanner, when she noticed the words written inside the cover.

Dear Sister Cross:

If you take time to read these things I'm sure you will find them interesting and if you pray about them, you will know of their truth.

Elders Thomas & Jameson

She banged the books down onto the sideboard as if they were red hot and refused to take any further notice of them. Sometimes, though, when dusting the pictures of her family, she would become tempted to take just a little look, but not anything more than that. Somehow they bothered her, so she decided to tuck them away in a cupboard; however, they still preyed on her mind.

Sometimes, at night, before going to sleep, she would think about the young men who had helped her and the books that they left hidden away in the linen cupboard, but she would declare to herself that they probably knew no more "