And When Ye Shall Receive These Things" than any other religion and had no more to offer.

Emily May had always been a devout church goer in her youth, and it was at church that she had met her husband. They had been married in the little village church not far from her old home, and it was in the same building that their two sons had been christened, John first, named after his father, of course, and David next, named after his grandfather. They were beautiful babies and grew into fine young men.

At the outbreak of war, when both of them had volunteered, she often thought of what life would be if one of them was lost, but little envisaged losing both. Those were sad days for Emily May and John. They naturally turned to God and their church for comfort. In their prayers together they found peace in God, but there were many questions that needed answers, so it was to their local vicar that they went.

He was a good man and did his best in giving them the little information he possessed about life after death, but he knew this was inadequate. His parting words had been, "I'm so sorry I can't be of more comfort to you. Sometimes I feel it would be wonderful to have someone on the earth who really knew all the answers, a prophet or something."

After this, Emily May and John went to church less frequently, until they stopped altogether, but they always kept up their prayers.

Emily May awoke to a beautiful bright morning. Her first thoughts were happy and at peace, for she had been dreaming about John. He had been sitting at a large desk, bent over his work, and she had crept up behind him and kissed the back of his neck. He had turned, smiling, and she noticed what he was doing—reading a book, the same book that was tucked away in her cupboard.

Just coincidence, she said to herself. It must have been a culmination of thoughts.

Jean Tanner continued to call on Emily May to make sure that she was all right and to see if she needed anything, and today was one of her usual days for calling.

"Hello, Mrs. Cross, is there anything I can help you with this morning?"

"Thank you, my dear, for calling."

There are one or two things that I need from the shop, come in a minute." As Emily May sorted out her money and wrote down the things that were needed, she took note of Jean's face. Somehow it seemed even more happy and radiant than usual. "You're looking very happy today, Jean my dar," something special happened? "Oh, I should say so," her voice bubbled with excitement. "My husband and I were married for time and all eternity yesterday and I'm still walking on air." Emily May stopped what she was doing and turned a puzzled face towards Jean, and she, realizing that what she was talking about was all new to Emily May, began to explain. It was much later that Jean eventually left for the shops.

Emily May was sitting in her favorite chair, looking fondly on the faces of her husband and sons, and in her mind, going over the events of the last few weeks. Could it be that she now had the reason why, the answer to her prayers? Were Jean and those two young elders the reason she had come to this new home?

A few minutes later, when Jean came back from the shops, she found Emily May with her gray head bent intently over a book, a book that began: "I, Nephi, having been born of goodly parents."