Nancy Tuddenham

Katherine, Northern Territory, Australia

What on earth had made her say she would come out to this forsaken place with her husband? Sue sat on the camp chair outside the caravan and drooped. The blazing sun shone out of a brazen blue sky, bare of clouds. The flies came around in droves and stuck, crawling into her hair and eyes. She swished at them viciously.

Here she was stuck in the middle of the bush, in the middle of Australia—well, nearly, anyway. Dust, flies, ants, hornets, and goodness knows what. Ah, she could weep. One had to carry one's own water, with no electricity, and the gas-bottle empty. The meat was going bad.

And weep Sue did, as she thought of all this, and how they came out here.
 
Two months ago her husband Jim had come home from work all excited. "I've got it, honey," he called as he came through the door, letting it slam behind him. "I've got the job on the Road—think what it will mean—more money to pay off our debts, a holiday for you in the fresh air away from the smog." And on he went about all the things they could do, all the benefits of this venture.

So it happened, packing the caravan, packing the things at home. Rush! She was exhausted by the time they left. Fortunately, they had no children. They didn't want any, well, to be honest, she didn't. Jim would have liked children—but she didn't want her routine upset by babies. She had to leave her job to go on this wild goose chase as it was.

With a baby! Ah, my goodness, never!

They were camped, along with some other married couples, in the rough Australian bush in the Northern Territory where the Beef Road was being built. It was late April, just after the wet season, and the countryside was at its best. The spinifex shone green and gold, even now the spines turning yellow with the hot sun. The ghost gums were clean and fresh looking, with their gray-white boles that shone in the sun and moonlight. The crows were numerous, along with the gray and rose galahs, and the white cockatoos. The bright red and green parrots made the bush ring with their raucous cries.

She just sat there, really quite an attractive young woman, brown eyes and hair, fair complexion. Her age—just thirty.

Then around the corner came a young woman. "Hello there! My name is June. I'm from the van over there," she said, pointing to a pretty little van with an awning and a tidy litter around it. "Isn't it beautiful today? Lovely sunshine, clear air, better than your city smog any time. Don't you love it out here?" She rattled on.

"Ah, hello! I'm Sue. I didn't notice you come round the corner." "That's all right, as long as I didn't frighten you." Sue laughed. "I thought I'd come over while my children were playing elsewhere. We have two, one of each, not of school age yet. I would have my hands full with correspondence school if they were. Like to come over for a drink of something?"

Sue said, "thank you." She couldn't say any more, but thought, may as well—there's nothing else to do.

Together, they went over to June's van. She got Sue a camp chair and told her to sit down while she prepared the drinks. Sue thought, yes, a cool drink would be nice now. While June was busy, she talked about their two children, Jan and Rob, and her husband Robert. Jan was five and a half, and Rob was four. Robert was out here as a grader driver. Jan had asthma in the city, but had not had a sign of it since they had come out here, so that was a blessing, wasn't it?

June rambled on, having sensed that Sue wasn't very happy, until she brought out the drinks—lime cordial in glasses that clinked merrily with the ice-blocks she had put in, also a plate of biscuits spread daintily with cream cheese and tomato.

"Now," she said, "let's settle down for a good chat. I hope you don't mind, but I noticed you looked a bit down in the dumps. Can I help?"

"Not really," murmured Sue, then, "it's just everything has got me down—the bush, lack of facilities, a bush made shower cubicle, worry of flat batteries for our lights, empty gas bottle." She went on, "I'm sorry," she said, "I don't want to burden you. I'm just sorry I ever came here, that's all!"

June was saved an answer by the two children returning dirty but happy.

They threw themselves on their mother, and both started talking at once. "I climbed a tree," said June, "saw a butterfly, saw a lizard." "Found a caterpillar," said Sue. "Sh! We have a visitor," said June. They turned around with big smiles and both said, "Hello." "It's great fun here," said young Rob. "I can climb trees, can you?" Sue had to admit that feat was a bit beyond her abilities. Turning to their mother, they both said, "We brought some wood home, Mummy." "Thank you, my dears," she said, "now off with you and wash your hands, and you may have a drink, too." When Sue first saw the cordial, she thought, fancy drinking that! But on tasting it, she found, to her surprise, that it was very refreshing, and enjoyed it so much that when June asked if she would like another, she replied that she would. Sue went back to her own caravan feeling much happier. Later in the evening, when she and her husband were sitting reading, there was a knock at the door. Robert was there. "June told me you people were out of gas," he said. "You can use our spare bottle until your refill arrives. No good being without a refrigerator out here." Jim thanked him and invited him in. "You find out who are friends in places like this," he commented. "Would you like a cup of tea?" "No thanks," Robert explained, "we don't drink tea, and I must get back and help get the nips into bed. Another time perhaps." He left the bottle of gas outside the door, and went off whistling. "Nice chap," commented Jim. "June seems nice, too—quite happy-go-lucky," Sue added.

The next day, June came over to ask Sue to go for a walk with her and the children. She didn't fancy going; the spinifex cut her legs, the flies were such a nuisance, and there could be snakes. However, June was hard to refuse, so she went. As they passed a gum tree, June broke off four twigs and gave one each to the children and one to Sue. Swish these around to chase the flies with," she advised. To Sue's surprise, it did chase the flies. As they walked, they saw the tiny wild flowers that grew among the grass, as well as many other kinds of flowers. Sue gathered some, along with some of the pretty grasses, to put in the van. She hadn't realized there was any beauty in the bush like this; she had never taken the trouble to look. The children kept pointing out to her all the different things to look at. A flock of galahs flashed past, screeching in protest at being disturbed. Grasshoppers, two and three inches long, jumped out of the clumps of grass with a whirring of wings. Willy-wagtails, in their black and white suits, flaunted their tails on the track before them. June told the children the native legend about them. Sue listened. "Never tell a secret in the hearing of a wagtail," she said. "Why not?" they asked. "Because of this," replied their mother, "they tell all the secrets they hear." The children said, "There's a magpie," as a big black and white bird flew off at their approach. "I love to hear them caroling at dawn, don't you, Sue?" June asked. Sue confessed she hadn't taken much notice. "But," she added, "I will tomorrow morning." Sue saw and heard all these things for the first time, and, much to her amazement, enjoyed them all. She was very thoughtful on the way back.

Over the next weeks, June showed Sue many little things that made camping in the bush much easier for her. One day, before Jim left for work, Sue went over to June's van to borrow something. As she neared the van, she heard subdued voices. She was just about to knock when she heard Robert's voice: "In the name of Jesus Christ, Amen." Then a murmur. Then another voice, a child's, and recognized Jan saying, "Dear Father in heaven, The Rebirth thank you for our blessings. Thank you for Mummy and Daddy and Rob, and Auntie Sue, and help her to be happy out in this lovely country you have made, in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen." Sue crept away to her own van.

What is this? she thought. Prayers in the morning and young Jan, so young? They didn't seem to be religious. Well, they didn't ram it down your throat, but there was something— as when Robert lent them the gas bottle, he said they don't drink tea. June had given her cordial and milk drinks, never tea nor coffee. They didn't seem to drink and neither of them smoked. There was something about them, a closeness that she and Jim had never seemed to acquire. They had two children and were pleased that number three was on the way. She was thoughtful all day.

Maybe if they had children they would be closer, too. Maybe she would be at peace with her own mind. But there was more than that. That night she spoke to Jim about what she had heard that morning and her thoughts during the day, and asked what he thought. He agreed they had "something." "You go and have a talk with June tomorrow," was his suggestion. So she did speak to June, and June exclaimed, "Ha! The chance to ask the two Golden Questions!" She promptly did. Sue was thoughtful all day.

"Yes, I would like to know more, and I'm sure Jim would, too." "Robert is an elder," June told Sue, "and he can tell you both about the Church, but," she added, "you will have to wait until you get back to civilization to be taught again and baptized."

From then on life opened up for Sue and Jim. Sue was introduced to The , and learned to love every word of it, and learned so much from it. Jim was interested as well, so much so that when the tea ran out, they did not order any more. After quite a tussle, they gave up smoking, and Jim gave up his beer, a very hard thing to do in one of the hottest parts of Australia. But the crowning event was when Sue was able to tell Jim that a happy event could be expected next year.

"My darling," whispered Jim, "this is what we have been waiting for."

Over the hill
And over the sea
Is where my heart
Aften langs tae be.
I see the heather
Upon the green hill
And the wild deer runnin'
Tae escape the kill.
I see the wee yins
Doon by the stream
While my mither works happily
At churnin' the cream.
I see the women
Doon by the mill
Spinnin' fine lace
Tae thrill many a girl. I see the gospel
Proclaimed at my door,
My heart swells with joy
At the message they bore.

| see my native land left far behind As | traveled far west A new Zion to find. Now although I'm quite happy In this land and am free, My heart often wanders Far beyond the blue sea. To home and my homeland And all o' my kin Their hearts to the gospel | surely must win. And when that day comes And united we be Perhaps | won't reminisce So much o'er the sea.