[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: Hurry, Wear and Tear | Author: Unknown]

HURRY, WEAR AND TEAR. 
	The startling progress of the present day
along many lines, both of thought and of
activity, keeps one constantly on the qui
vive to be at all posted in the world’s great
undertakings. One who would keep
abreast of the times must even think rapid-
ly, or be left behind. There seems to be
every facility for rapid motion in traveling,
etc., quick connections in communication,
the telegraph and telephone to convey ideas
the world over almost, but the individual
brain must still do the thinking and plan-
ning, and it is this hurry of thinking that
is making such headlong rush that it is no
wonder insanity is on the increase.
	It would be a good thing to slow up now
and then, better than to push onward and
finally plunge headlong into the madden-
ing scheme, that may end in paralysis or
prostration of the nervous forces.
	Perhaps Americans are too ambitious,
they have so much vital energy that they
spend it freely, but to prolong human life
is one of the principles taught by the
Prophet Joseph Smith and others of our


[Column 2]
wise men, and in order to do so one must
obey the laws of nature, the higher laws
taught by revelation to the Latter-day
Saints.
	Very few people really abide by the regu-
lations they know to be advantageous to
life and health, but promise themselves,
perchance, that bye and bye they’ll take
the much-needed rest.
	There really seems more to do than ever
before and yet there are so many inventions
to lessen work that it is a problem how there
can be more to do, and one cannot help
feeling that it is not only a problem no one
seems able to solve, but it is positively a
mystery.
	At any rate the facts remain the same,
and everybody complains, almost without
exception, of being overworked. Is it be-
cause we require so much more than form-
erly to help us to live, or what is the rea-
son people are always in a hurry?
	There certainly are more amusements
than there used to be, and it is hard work
to go to places of recreation to be amused,
that is if one has to hurry to make the
time to go. Heber C. Kimball used to say
holidays were “hollow days,” and the
hardest days there were and the most
fatiguing; but some people do not take time
for simple recreation, and business men
nowadays really have not time to see their
families and get acquainted with their own
children.
	Where is the person who is to call a
halt?
	It is not a wholesome state of affairs, and
will not tend to a higher state of perfection.
And certainly in the hot weather the effect
of hurry will be dangerous. Men, and
women too, for that matter, rush to catch
trains, and to eat a lunch, if they have
any, and altogether, anyway, many people
are so anxious to get on in the world that
they forget or neglect all the little courte-
sies that were so charming in the ladies
and gentlemen of “the old school,” as it has
become customary to call the manners of
the long ago when the people had leisure.
	It is delightful to be surrounded with
wealth and able to gratify one’s taste in all
sorts of ways, but the multiplied of duties
and of work along so many lines hinders
even the enjoyment of wealth, and its ac-
cessories, and all this hinders the cultivation
of true politeness and refinement of senti-
ment and of soul and a kindliness of man-
ner, which is essential for those who are
aiming to reach a high standard of excel-
lence in all that pertains to the life here
upon the earth and the eternities here-
after.
	The Latter-day Saints should now and
then examine their own accounts not
financially, but generally, and compare
them with what the Lord has said in the
revelations given in the latter days and
see if they compare well with the written
instructions, and take care of the bodies
given them, and seek by all legitimate
means to preserve their health and strength,
that they may not come under condem-
nation for not taking care of their mortal
bodies.


