[WomansExponent | Vol30 | 1901 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: CELEBRATION ANNIVERSARY. | Author: Unknown]

CELEBRATION ANNIVERSARY.
	The Relief Society of Chesterfield,
Idaho, celebrated March 17, 1901, by hold-
ing a fast meeting, President Columbia F.
Loveland presiding. Singing, “We thank
Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer by
Bishop J. A. Toleman. Singing, “Mid
scenes of confusion.” Roll was called and
minutes of March 17, 1900, were read.
	President Loveland hoped all the sisters
would bear their testimonies. She knew
this was the true Church, if she did not,
she did not think she would have much to
live for. Spoke about laying away two of
our sisters since our last memorial day.
	Counselor Alice Yancey thought it our
duty to bear our testimonies, thought if we
would do our duty God would bless us.
Hoped we would love one another.
	Counselor Ann Sessions thought we were
blest in having the priesthood with us, also
thought we were a blest lot of sisters.
	Stake President Mary A. Call said it
seemed but yesterday we held our last
meeting, but still a year had gone. She
wondered if we had accomplished anything.
Said “Let us be better mothers and sisters
honor the priesthood and our Bishop. Said
this was a day that had been set apart for

[Column 2]
the Relief Society, hoped all the sisters
would be willing to pay their ten cents to
help roll on this work, not only in this
land, but all over the world.
	Sister Mary V. Muir knew the Lord
would bless us by fasting and praying to
Him, thought we ought to sustain our
president by coming out to meeting.
	Sisters Elizabeth Loveland and Ruth
Davies bore their testimonies, also felt like
doing their duty.
	The secretary then read from the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT a letter entitled, “A
Word of Love and Greeting,” from the 
General Board.
	Sisters Ada Loveland and Rhoda Moss
thought there was a little improvement,
but there was still room for more. Felt
like doing their duty.
	Sisters Mary A. Toleman and Rosette
Loveland felt they had been blessed in the
past year.
	Sisters Martha Reese, Fannie Call, Etta
Toleman, May Campbell and Eliza Tole-
man all had a testimony to bear and wanted
to help make the Relief Society a success.
	Bishop J. A. Toleman felt we had been
blessed here in this ward. Said we should
feel thankful to our Heavenly Father for
His blessings. Felt like being one with
the sisters.
	Brother Charley Jensen had been edified
in listening to the remarks of the previous
speakers. He was glad the sisters had
such a grand organization where they
could counsel together. Said he noticed a
remark in the letter that was read about
handshaking that it produced a feeling of
unity and love, and was also the means of
bringing those into our meetings and Sun-
day School who had never attended before.
	Brother Carlos Loveland thought we had
a good band of Sisters here. Said the sis-
ters were storing up lots of grain. Coun-
seled the sisters to be careful in laying
away the dead.
	Sister Clara Laird said the Lord had
blessed her in her affliction. She would
like to have her baby prayed for.
	Brother Josiah Loveland had been edified
in listening to the remarks of his brothers
and sisters. He had a testimony to bear.
	The minutes were then read and accepted
and the meeting closed by singing, and
benediction by Brother Charley Jensen.
	A party was given in the evening under
the auspices of the Relief Society.
			ALICE M. CARD, Sec.


