R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS.
BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of ladies' conference, held at St.
Charles, Jan 12th and 13th, 1889. After the
usual devotional exercises, the branches of the
Relief Society were reported verbally by their
respective presidents and representatives.
	Prest. J. P. Lindsay then addressed the con-
gregation on the subject of storing grain and
setting good examples. Her remarks through-
out were fraught with interest, and were dic-
tated by the Holy Spirit.
	The next speaker, Sister Sarah I. Holmes,
felt grateful to God for the many blessings we
enjoy, and for the privileges we have of meet-
ing together from time to time, and being in-
structed in His ways. Set forth the duties of
the members of the associations.
	She was followed by Sister Annie Laker,
who dwelt at some length upon the responsi-
bilities of parents, and gave some excellent ad-
vice to mothers, which will doubtless be appre-
ciated by all who heard it.
	Coun. L. M. Hart felt grateful that she had
been permitted to live to see the ushering in of
a new year; hoped to be able to live nearer to
God in the future than she had done in the past,
and to be prepared to do more in assisting to
build up the kingdom of our God.


[Column 1]

	The choir sang. Benediction was offered by
Elder C. A. Murkley.
	Sunday, Jan. 13th, 2 p.m.: The opening
exercises were attended to, and Prest. Lindsay
again took the stand, and spoke for a short
time impressively on different subjects pertin-
ent to our belief.
	Prest. James H. Hart was pleased to meet
with his brethren and sisters. Said, "The
Gospel is being preached for the last time, and
the day is fast approaching when 'every knee
must bow and every tongue confess that Jesus
is the Christ' All who expect to be saved in
the kingdom of our God must be faithful to
the end. We are called upon, and may still
be, to pass through trials for the truth's sake,
and some may indeed be required to lay down
their lives in defense of its principles." Ex-
horted the people to faithfulness in serving
God and keeping His commandments.
	The names of the Stake and local officers
were presented by Prest. Geo. Osmond and sus-
tained by the conference in their various posi-
tions.
	Conference was adjourned till the second
Saturday and Sunday in July. Singing by
the choir, and Prayer by Bishop J. A. Hunt.
		L. M. RICH, Secretary.

