NOTES AND NEWS.

	Both branches of Congress have passed the
bill raising the age of protection for girls to
sixteen.
	Smith College, Mass., has received a gift of
$5,000 toward a gymnasium. The donor was
a woman.
	Mrs. Fayette C. Snead, whose newspaper name
was "Fay," died in Washington, D. C., Janu-
ary 24.
	Over one hundred and sixty women matri-
culated at a Philadelphia Woman's Medical
College last year.
	The Queen of Sweden has given a large do-
nation to the Dress Reform Society, to enable
them to open a store in Stockholm.
	Lady Sandhurst was elected to the London,
Eng., County Council at the late election. Mrs.
Gladstone in a letter seconded her election.
	The girl mail-carrier, of Oregon, whose
home is near Eugene City, bears the euphoni-
oua name of Minnie Westman.
	The Municipal Council of Paris has voted
500f. towards the expenses of the Woman's
Right's International Congress, to be held
there this year.


[Column 1]

	There are nearly three hundred women
studying at the Cooper Union Free Woman's
Art School in New York.
	A. W. C. T. U. Building Association has 
been organized in Ohio to erect a chapel, par-
lor and dining-room at Lake Side, the summer
Chautauqua of that State.
	It is one of the rules of Sorosis that no one
must act as president for more than three
years. Mrs. M. Louise Thomas's third term
expires this year, and there is much debate as
to who shall be her successor.
	A vote on woman suffrage was taken the
other day by the employes of the Cleveland
(O.) Ship-building Company. Of 125 me-
chanics who voted, 112 were in favor. The
thirteen who opposed it are foreigners, unable
to speak English.
	The women have no power as yet to vote ap-
propriations. But, since the women of Massa-
chusetts pay some millions of dollars in taxes
every year, a portion of the money raised by
taxing them might appropriately be applied to
paying the clerks who registered them-
	An attempt was lately made in the London
County Council to elect Sir Charles Dilke an
alderman of London. There was strong ob-
jection on account of his notorious morals.
When the caucus met, it was confronted with
a protest signed by 1,500 ladies, and the name
of Sir Charles was dropped.
	Ramabai is lecturing in Japan to great
audiences. In Tokio, the largest lecture hall
in the city was so crowded that the doors had
to be closed half an hour before the meeting
began, every inch of room being already occu-
pied. Ramabai, of course, speaks through an
interpreter.
	Madame Carnot is being attacked by a sec-
tion of the French press for having received
at the Elysee the famous explorer, Madame
Dieulafoy, in a divided skirt, or, as the opposi-
tion papers call it, in "the dress of a man."
This costume Madame Dieulafoy devised for
herself when superintending the excavations
made under the care of her husband and her-
self in Persia. The dress could not be mis-
taken for that of a man. It resembles more 
the full trousers worn by the women of Orien-
tal nations. This garb, assumed first for work-
ing purposes, Madame Dieulafoy found so con-
venient and easy that a return to stays, tight-
fitting or decollete bodices, and long trains,
became intolerable, and she continues to wear
it.—Ex.
	A few years ago, an excellent D. D., who
had lived in Wyoming and been chaplain to
the Territorial Legislature, published in the
Religious Telescope a glowing account of the
good effects of equality of rights for women.
Among other things, he cited the abundance
of children in Wyoming, and attributed it to
the influence of woman suffrage ! It is pro-
bable that in this the good doctor's enthusiam
for woman suffrage carried him a little too far;
for we find the same abundance of children in
other frontier Territories where woman suffrage
does not prevail. It is probably accounted
for by the fact that the settlers are largely 
young married people, and that they lead a
hardy and rugged life. It is evident, however,
that if woman suffrage does not promote the
increase of population, it certainly does not
prevent it—Ex.
	Any education that unfits women to be
mothers, or men to be fathers, must be con-
demned, of course. The mistake lies in as-
suming that the higher education does unfit
women to be mothers. A year or two since,
the Association of Collegiate Alumnae col-
lected statistics from about 800 women college

[Column 2]

graduates, as to their health before, during
and after college, the health of their children,
the number who had died, etc. Two points
came out clearly from these statistics: that the
health of the girls generally improved at col-
lege, when they did not over-study; and that
the death-rate among the children of college
women is remarkably low. An educated
woman knows better than an ignorant one how
to care for her own health and that of her
child. Again, the quailty of the children has
to be considered as well as the quantity. The
child of an educated mother is likely to be
more intelligent that the child of an ignoraut
mother. It is more likely to live, and is also
"worth raising."—Ex.


