WOMAN AND HER SPHERE.

	Woman and her sphere is a theme that has
agitated the minds of thinking men and women
of all ages, but because of the darkness that
has covered the earth, there is a great diversity
of opinion regarding this matter—the proper
sphere of woman—and we find that in this,
as well as other great subjects which effect the
welfare and happiness of the human race,
great mistakes have been made; when, if man-
kind had only been willing to accept the sim-
ple laws of God, which said in the beginning,
"She shall be a helpmate for man," there
would have been no need for controversy on
the subject, for woman would have stood where
the great Father designed she should—at the
head of her family, side by side with man, his
equal and companion, neither aspiring to su-
premacy on the one hand, nor abjectly feeling
herself an inferior or a slave. The question
may be asked, "Is she inferior to man in physi-
cal strength?" She may be in some respects,
while in others her more refined and delicate
organization is peculiarly adapted to the part
she was designed to play in the creations of
God, and among whatever people the refining
influence of woman is most felt, there will be
found the most worthy and noble men; for is
she not a wife and mother? and a truly virtu-
ous woman is a crown to her husband; her
children rise up and call her blessed, and she
is neither degraded as an inferior or regarded
as a plaything; and were it not that the world
have wandered far from God, woman would
stand in the dignity and purity of her woman-
hood, and desire to fill no other position than
that which an alwise Creator designed for her.
And man instead of seeking to lower or de-
grade her, would cherish and respect her as
the brightest jewel and greatest blessing a bene-
ficent Father had bestowed upon him.
	Nor have instances been wanting in which
women have played an important part in the
history of nations. We will pass by the many
instances recorded in profane history in which
women have distinguished themselves in states-
manship and sometimes as warriors, when they
sometimes saved a state and led armies to
victory. Although many such instances might
be enumerated, we pass them by and turn to
the Scriptures of eternal truth, where we read
of Miriam, who was a prophetess; of Deborah,
who judged and led the armies of Israel; of
Esther who took her life in her hands to make
intercession for her people, saying, "I will go
unto the king, and if I perish I perish;" but
more particularly in the New Testament do we
find an Elizabeth who received the ministra-
tion of angels; of Mary, who was counted
worthy to became the mother of the Holy
One; of Anna, a holy woman, a prophetess,
who departed not from the temple, but served
God day and night. It was a woman who
oftenest ministered to the wants of the Son of
God, who believed in and followed Him; but
it was not a woman who betrayed Him.
Women were last at the cross and first at the
sepulchre, and it was to a woman that He first
revealed Himself after His resurrection, and
honored by sending with a message to His dis-
ciples with the joyfal tidings that He had risen
from the dead; and oh! how Mary's bleeding
heart must have rejoiced. And if woman was
the first, by reason of her transgression of the
law to bring the penalty of death into the
world, she was also the first to receive the glad
news that Christ had arisen from the dead, if
not to understand that through His death and
sufferings the original sin of our first parents
had been atoned for, and through His resur-
rection He had obtained the keys of death and
hell, and opened the door whereby we could,
by obedience to the laws of the Gospel, once
more enter the presence of the Father.
	Thus we find that woman has often been

[Column 2]

honored of God; and woe! be to man if he
cannot give a good account of his dealing with
her, who often remains faithful to him through
evil as well as good report, and will minister
to his wants when all others have forsaken him;
and when prostrated with pain, sickness or
sorrow, it is woman who helps him bear his
burdens; it is her soothing hand that lulls the
pain of his aching head, wipes the chilling
dews of death from his brow, and weeps over
him when all others have departed.
	But woman shines brightest in her sphere as
a mother, and to her was the first promise
given of a future Messiah; that notwithstand-
ing she should bring forth children in pain
and sorrow, it was through her seed that the
head of the old serpent should receive a deadly
bruise; and how anxiously women of olden
times desired children; perhaps each one may
have secretly cherished the hope in her heart,
that she may have been the one honored above
all others and the mother of the promised
Savior.
	We believe that in these latter days woman
must still play an important part, and it will
be found that she is still as willing to make
sacrifice for the sake of establishing what she
believes to be the principles of truth and
righteousness in the earth, as she was in olden
times to follow the scorned and persecuted
Savior to the foot of the cross; for it is a well-
known fact that when times of trial and perse-
cution have arisen women have always been
as willing to suffer as men, and even to lay
down their lives for conscience sake.
	Let the women of the latter days lift up
their heads and rejoice, for a brighter day for
woman is near at hand. Let them prepare
themselves, for the old days of thraldom, that
dwarfed their intellect and marred their use-
fulness are rapidly passing away. Let women
be true to themselves, and their power and in-
fluence will soon be felt in the land. Take a
stand against wickedness, in whatever shape it
may appear, for a great and glorious day for
woman is near at hand.
