EDITORIAL NOTES. 
	THE Secretaries of the Relief Society in this
Stake of Zion are hereby particularly requested
to prepare correct semi-annual reports, and for-
ward them not later than the 25th of February,
to the Stake Secretary, Mrs. Elizabeth Howard,
No. 60, Fourth South St., Salt Lake City, in order
that a full and complete report may be made in
time for the Stake Conference.  By order of Mrs.
M. Isabella Horne, President Relief Society, 
Salt Lake Stake.
	THE Secretary of the Central Board of the Y.
L. M. I. Associations is particularly anxious to
obtain correct semi-annual reports from each
Stake of Zion.  These should be forwarded so as
to reach her not later than March 10th, to
enable her to compile them in time for the General
Conference on April 6th.  Will the secretaries
of the several Stakes please send promptly to
Mary E. Cook, 323 East, Third South Street, Salt
Lake City, Utah.
	THE Stake secretaries of the Relief Society in
the various Stakes of Zion are urgently requested
to prepare semi-annual Stake reports and forward
them, so that they will reach this city on or before
the 20th of March, in order that a complete re-
port may be furnished the General Conference in
April.  Direct to Dr. Romania B. Pratt, corner
2nd West and First South Streets, Salt Lake
City.  By order of Sarah M. Kimball, Secretary.
	THE quarterly conference of the Relief Society
of this Stake of Zion will be held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, Thursday, March 14,
commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.  A representa-
tive from each branch Society in the County is
particularly requested, and a cordial invitation is
extended to all who are interested in the work of
the organization.  The Y. L. M. I. A. of this
Stake will meet in conference Friday, March 15,
and the Primary Association Saturday, the 16th.


A full representation from each Association is
very desireable at both these conferences.
	THE Secretary of the Central Board of the
Primary Associations is desirous of obtaining a
full report from each Stake of Zion for the com-
plete report to be prepared in time for the Apirl
Conference, and this semi-annual report should
be ready ten days before, or about the 25th of
March.  Consequently the reports from all points
ought to be in the hands of the Secretary as
early as the 10th of March at the latest, which
would give her then only two weeks time to pre-
pare them.  It is a very important thing, and the
Presidents of Primary Associations in the several 
Stakes of Zion, should see that this matter is
properly attended to, both as to correct figures
and statements and date of sending.  Forward
the Stake reports to Mrs. Cornelia H. Clayton,
No. 115 Third Street, Salt Lake City.
	MRS. EMILY S. RICHARDS, the delegate from
Utah to the Annual Convention of the N. W. S. A.
at Washington, D.C., returned home Wednesday
evening, Feb. 13.  She gives a pleasing account
of her association with the leading ladies of the
suffrage movement, and withal feels glad of the
success which seems to have attended her efforts
in behalf of representation for Utah, and is hope-
ful for the future. Mrs. Richards will probably
give us something definite concerning her work
there, and her views in reference to the interests of
suffrage before we issue another paper, and will
most likely speak in public before that time, and
we shall be pleased to publish such notes. Her
speech in another part of the paper, will meet the
approbation of all suffrage women, and they will
certainly feel she must have made a good im-
pression in their favor.


