EMINENT WOMEN.

II.

	We talk a great deal in this age, of origin-
ality and individuality, but circumstances and
opportunities have much to do with both. In
a general way we find men and women possess
the characteristics of the time to which they
belong. Thus we speak of remarkable persons
as the best types of the period in which they
lived. There are many elements that enter
into the formation of character. The physical 
condition of the country itself, the pursuits in-
cident to the time and place, and other con-
siderations which belong to the period of one's
existence have much to do with the lives of
individuals.
	In writing of the Mesdames Montague, I
have in my mind a sort of historical panorama,
or bird's eye view of the condition of society
in England at the time, and I esteem these
ladies as representative women of their day,
and instead of wondering why they did not
maintain the intellectual equality of the sexes,
as exceptional women do in our day, I simply
admire them for doing what they could to
elevate woman socially and educationally.
This is essentially woman's era, and the wise
understand why.
	In some respects Elizabeth Montague (or as
she is often termed, the other Montague), was
more illustrious that her predecessor, Lady
Mary, though she never gained a title. Her
maiden name was Robinson, and she was born
in 1720. Elizabeth was educated with great
care, under the tuition of Dr. Congers Middle-
ton, a celebrated English divine. According
to her letters written previous to her marriage,
she was on intimate terms with some of the
nobility. She must have been very lively, for
she writes to the Duchess of Portland, describ-
ing "an assembly to which they drove eight
miles every full moon and danced till twelve."
"I must tell your Grace, that my papa forgets
twenty years and nine children, and dances as
nimbly as any of the quorum; but is now and
then mortified by hearing the ladies cry, 'Old

[Column 2]

Mr. Robinson! Haysides and turn your
daughter.' Other ladies who have a mind to
appear young say, 'Well! there is my poor
grandpa, he could no more dance so!' Then
comes an old bachelor of fifty, and shakes
him by the hand and cries, 'Why, you dance
like one of us young fellows;' another more in
judicious than the rest, says by way of compli-
ment, 'Who would think you had six fine
children taller than yourself? I protest if I
did not know you, I should take you to be
young.' Then says the most antiquated virgin
in the company, 'Mr. Robinson wears mighty
well; my mother says he looks as well as ever
she remembers him; he used to come often to 
the house when I was a girl.' " Mr. Robinson
married at the early age of eighteen, and
might not perhaps have been at this time more
than forty, although he had some fine tall
children. We have given our readers this
little passage that they may have an idea of
Elizabeth's early life.
	Miss Robinsou married a man of wealth,
and subsequently obtained "the reputation of
a woman of learning." Indeed, she was quite
a power in her day, and drew around her a
circle of learned and influential people of cul-
ture, who were anxious to be considered in Mrs.
Montague's set.

"Great souls by instinct to each other turn,
Demand alliance, and in friendship burn."

	Even Johnson, with whom she had been on
intimate terms, in alluding to her, said: "Mrs.
Montague has dropped me. Now, sir, there
are people whom one should like very well to
drop, but would not wish to be dropped by."
Among her contemporaries we find Johnson,
Boswell, Walpole, Mrs. Thrale and Miss
Burney (Madame d'Arbley), who all belonged
to her coterie, and were entertained in splendor
at her house, which Horace Walpole calls "a
palace and a noble edifice." Walpole writes
that in the morning she breakfasted seven hun-
dred people. Miss Burney speaks of being
present at one of her breakfasts when there
were between four and five hundred guests at
the table. Besides these magnificent break-
fasts, and surpassing them in grandeur, her
whole house was thrown open occasionally for
great gatherings, or parties. But the most
choice entertainments she gave were smaller
parties in her drawing-room, where only "peo-
ple of consequenct" assembled. These were
the friends she made a point of cultivat-
ing. At these parties it was customary
to form a semi-circle around the fire, which
would remain unbroken during the entire
evening. The hostess usually sat at one end
of the circle, elegantly attired and brilliant
with diamonds, and on one side of her, the
person of the highest rank, and on the other,
the one most eminent in literature.

"'Tis true (as the old proverb doth relate),
Equals with equals often congregate."

	George, Lord Littleton, was a warm admirer
of this talented lady. It is stated she assisted
him in the composition of his "Dialogues of 
the Dead."
	At the time of her great popularity, her
manner was very stately and dignified, as be-
came one so distinguished in the highest rank
of wealth and literature.
	Elizabeth Montague was known and desig-
nated as the "queen of the blues." Scribblers
are indebted to this lady for the appelation
blue-stocking. She formed a literary society
known as the Blue-Stocking Club; the name
originated from the circumstance of a gentle-
man, who was a member, constantly wearing
stockings of that color, and has ever since been
applied to women who affect literature. We
must recollect that those were the palmy days
of knee breeches; consequently the color of
one's hose was a matter of taste in a man's ap-

[Column 3]

pearance, quite as much as the color of his
necktie, or any other item of his costume. We
have to thank Mrs. Montague for giving
literary women a title. But this is not the
only peculiarity for which she is famous. She
invariably gave an annual dinner on May day
to all the chimney-sweepers of the metropolis,
in honor of her kinsman, Edward Wortley
Montague, who was for some time a chimney-
sweep. There must have been some excellent
qualities of heart, joined with humility, under-
lying her pride and love of magnificence,
which prompted her to observe regularly this
commendable custom; and to remember in such
a substantial manner, the poor chimney-sweepers
of London, and also to perpetuate in the minds
of all the world her plebeian ancestor.
	Her remarkable gift of conversation, which
was really her strong point, by means of which
she drew around her all the elite of that age
of critics, would designate her in the nineteenth
century as a magnetic woman, which no doubt
she was. Johnson said of her to his friend
Boswell: "She diffuses more knowledge in her
conversation than any woman I know, and in-
deed almost more than any man." Mrs. Thrale
replied, "I declare, I know no man equal to
her, take away yourself and Burke, for that
art." Some critics and reviewers, in alluding
to her, have said: "It is difficult to believe,
from anything Mrs. Montague has left in writ-
ing, that her conversation deserved the high
praise Johnson bestowed upon it."

Who shall dispute what the reviewers say?
Their word's sufficient; and to ask a reason
In such a state as their's is downright treason.

	The critics cut and thrust at her "Essay on 
Shakespeare," although they acknowledge that
at the time it was written it was supposed to
do honor, not only to the author herself, but
to Shakespeare. Her "Letters" afford better
reading, in their estimation, particularly those
addressed to Lord Littleton, in which, says the
editor, "She displays the full strength of her
wings,"
	Mrs. Montague, unlike many women of
"brilliant parts," did not outlive her popularity,
although most of her old-time friends had
passed away before her. She died A. D. 1800,
at the age of eighty years. There are many
interesting little episodes in her life which are
well worth recounting, but time and space will
not now permit.
