UTAH'S LADY DELEGATE.

	Mrs. Emily S. Richards, who left here on
the 13th of January to attend the Annual
Convention of the National Woman Suffrage
Association in Washington, as a Delegate
from Utah, arrived at the Capitol previous to
the opening of the Convention, and was al-
lowed time for an address, notwithstanding the
previously arranged programme. Mrs. Rich-
ards was received with considerable applause,
and made a decidedly favorable impression.
We give her speech in full, as published in a
letter to the Deseret News from the special cor-
respondent in Washington.—ED

	"'Tis better to have voted and been disfran-
chised, than never to have voted at all."
	This is a very prosaic paraphrase of a very
poetical sentiment, but it is true, and behind it
lies a great political wrong.
	I am a native born citizen of the United
States, and for fifteen years enjoyed all the
rights and privileges of the elective franchise.
I voted for every kind of elective officer in the
Territory of Utah, from delegate in Congress
to school trustee. I never once sold my vote,
nor was I influenced in casting it by either
fear or favor. I never attempted to repeat; no
man for whom I ever cast a ballot was ever
charged with malfeasance in office, or with any
other violation of his official oath. Yet to-day
I am disfranchised and on the same political
plane as you, my sisters, and the rest of our
sex in this "land of liberty."
	I think I may safely challenge any male
voter of the United States to show a better
use of the rights of American citizenship. I
do make that challenge for myself, and on
behalf of the thousands of women in Utah
whom I represent, and whose political record
is above reproach. And on their behalf, with
all possible respect to the distinguished gentle-
men who sit in Congressional majesty on Capi-
tol Hill, I protest against the wresting from us,
by the right of might, of that franchise which
we had never abused, and which was our vested
right. 
	In 1870 women were given the elective fran-
chise in Utah.
	Subsequently an act was passed by the legis-
lature striking the word male from the law
prescribing qualifications for holding office, so
that women might be equally eligible with men
to any office in the Territory. This act never
became a law because it was disapproved by
the Governor, who is appointed without the
consent of the people, and his vote is absolute,
even when opposed to the unanimous vote of
the entire legislature. And so the will of the
people was defeated by this unrepublican one
man political power.
	Just as one who has loved and lost is always
deemed the best authority upon affairs of the
heart, so I venture to claim a particular knowl-
edge of the use, the power of the franchise in
woman's hands. And the experience which I
gained with the women of Utah should not be
concealed from this Convention; it belongs to
you; it is essentially a part of woman's history
in this great Republic; it is the best practical
illustration of the problem whiah has yet been
given, and it is likely to obtain that pre-emin-
ence for years to come, because in all the seven-
teen years during which the women of Utah
exercised their right to vote, they held the
balance of power between the two parties, and

[Column 2]

no man was elected to office without their ap-
proval.
	During all these years we voted without
disturbance and without injury to the manners,
morals or domestic comfort of the men. We
were able to determine whom we wished to
sustain by our votes, and no one had the right,
the power, and, I will say for our husbands,
brothers and fathers, the wish or desire to pre-
vent, intimidate, or coerce us in the least de-
gree. We were citizens of the United States,
armed with that all-potent yet peaceful politi-
cal weapon, the ballot, and we challenge the
world to show where, in a single instance, we
wielded it wrongfully. And let me say right
here, that we have not had to contend against
the male opposition common in other places,
for the majority of men in Utah believe that
woman was designed by the Creator to be
man's companion in all things, whether in the
Church or in the State, in time and in eternity,
and to share dominion with him over all created
things.
	While we enjoyed the franchise we took part
in the primaries and nominating Conventions,
acted as delegates, and did our share of the
political business.
	Two years ago Congress abrogated the right
of woman's suffrage in Utah, and thousands of
us were summarily deprived of our political
power. We had committed no offense against
the sacred franchise and had violated no law
of our opponents, and, therefore, in their esti-
mation we were not worthy to vote at all. The
same logic would have disfranchised men as
well as women, but their ballots were pre-
served.
	It has been intimated that the women of
Utah were compelled to vote as required by
the men. This is not true. No coercion was
ever attempted, and, if it had been, the effort
to accomplish it would have failed because,
under the law, we had a perfectly secret ballot,
which put it beyond all human power to find
out how any person voted unless the elector
chose to tell.
	It is also an error to suppose that women
voters of Utah used the ballot to uphold or
perpetuate any system or practice in opposition
to the laws, or the will, or common custom of
this country. No such question was ever voted
on at the polls in that Territory. Votes of
men and women alike were merely cast for
local officers, and we chose to elect such men
as we believed would act honestly, fairly and
for the public good, in the interests of tem-
perance, order, morality and economy, and not
for private ends or personal greed. That was
"the head of our offending."
	The deprivation which we have sustained is
not more cruel to us than to you. The con-
tinuance of our political power meant that you
could have pointed to our work as a proof that
the general cause was worthy of success. But
Congress, in the almost infinite wisdom of
legislative man, decreed to dig up the new
budding tree before it could bear fruit and
give seed. It was not within the male purpose
that this little acorn, planted nineteen years
ago, should grow into the sturdy oak.
	But while we have lost our franchise in Utah,
we still retain our property rights. Unmarried
women have all the legal rights of men, so far
as the acquisition and disposition of property
is concerned, whether real or personal. Mar-
ried women have entire control of all the


[Column 1]
property they held at the time of marriage
and can acquire, hold and sell, or otherwise
dispose of real and personal property after
marriage without the consent of their hus-
bands, but the husband must have the consent
of the wife. In addition to this they have the
right of dower, by which they inherit one-third
of the husband's estate at his death. The law
of inheritance is the same from the wife to the
husband as from the husband to the wife; each
inherits from the other under similar condi-
tions. 
	For many years the women of Utah have
been organized into Relief Societies and Mu-
tual  Improvement Associations. Their sym-
pathies have always been with the Woman
Suffrage movement. After the visit to Utah,
last summer, of Mrs. Colby and Mrs. Saxon,
officers of this Association, who lectured on
“Woman Suffrage; the International Council
of Women and the relation of woman’s ballot
to all reforms,” a Woman’s Suffrage Associa-
tion was organized as an auxiliary to the Na-
tional. Its members number about two hun-
dred and are rapidly increasing. In this move-
ment we did not receive the aid or sanction of
our vice-president, because she did not think
woman suffrage good for Utah. The organiza-
tion was effected by the chairman of the execu-
tive committee. It is complete in every par-
ticular, and the by-laws declare the object of
the association to be “to work for the enfran-
chisement of women without regard to party,
sect, or creed, and to take such steps from time
to time as shall seem to be wise and expedient
for the political advancement of the women
of Utah.”  The Association has sent two dele-
gates to this convention. The very large ma-
jority of people in Utah are in favor of woman
suffrage. As an evidence of this, we secured
8,393 signatures to the national enrollment in
three weeks, 3000 of them being the names of 
men, and we have but just begun our work. 
	All trades, professions and occupations in
Utah are open to women. We have editors,
doctors—who have graduated in the best col-
leges of the country—lawyers, school teachers,
artists, poets, musicians, lecturers, merchants,
clerks, cashiers, photographers, printers, book-
binders, telegraph and telephone operators, silk
workers, weavers, factory hands and artisans
in every kind of work that women are able to 
do, as well as in those domestic labors which
some narrow-minded people think comprise
the sphere of woman. We have no “superflu-
ous women” in the Territory, and none who
need remain without employment; it is often
impossible to hire women for domestic ser-
vice. 
Women, in the male estimation, are not as
fit as men to perform jury service, because it is
said they would be governed by sentiment. If
the premises be true, the argument is still false.
The sentiment which would most often actuate
women is pity. With men it is too often bus-
iness, avarice or social cowardice. Women
might favor the poor and friendless. Men cer-
tainly do show illegal leniency to the rich and 
powerful. 
	We are told that suffrage means turmoil of 
mind, which women should avoid. I do not
concede that this is necessarily so, but I do say
that, if it were so, my sentiment would be that 
of the heroic Roman who said: “Better a dis-
turbed liberty than a quiet slavery.”
	For one, in a general sense, I object to the
cruel withholding of suffrage from women, in
a land consecrated by blood to universal liber-
ty. In a special sense I object to the arbitrary
edict by which thousands of intelligent voters
were deprived of a sacred right, simply be-
cause they were women. 
	The mightiest human problem vexing the
world to-day is the relation of the rich and the
poor—the profit eaters and the profit makers.
Man alone will never solve it. There are
[Column 2]
cases of wounds and illness where woman’s
nursing is absolutely necessary. This is a 
desperate case of social disorder, where woman
must minister with all her skill and tender-
ness to bring the patient through the crisis.
The cry which we now offer up is the cry of
the ages. It is the protest of the few against
the many, the argument of thought against
bigotry. To-day the world is correcting the
active wrongs of last century, and is making
recompense to the demon of intolerance, by be-
ing blind and deaf to the oppressed of to-day.
The wonder which men feel now that their an-
cestors could have been so intolerant will be
felt a generation hence by their sons regarding
these same men.
	The “federation of the world” will not be
accomplished while the most advanced nation
on earth is but half redeemed. But the cause
of woman’s enfranchisement is gaining irresist-
ible momentum. Its triumph must soon come.
When it is victorious, but not till then, will
might cease to her arbiter of right. 
	When a cause is irrevocably lost, it is then 
too late for words. To discuss inevitable sor-
row is only to give intensity to grief. But the
women of Utah do not regard their own fran-
chise as being forever lost. We hope and ex-
pect to see this great struggle terminate speedi-
ly and triumphantly for the cause of woman,
and to see political liberty enjoyed without re-
gard to sex. When that sublime hour comes
it will mark the beginning of the end of tyran-
ny, oppression and misrule. God speed the 
day.


