WOMAN'S SUFFRAGE MEETING.

	There was an interesting meeting of the
Woman's Suffrage Association of Utah held in
the Social Hall at 2 p.m., Saturday, Feb. 9,
1888, First Vice-President Mrs. Lydia D. Alder
presiding. Prayer was offered by Mrs. Zina
D. H. Young.
	Mrs. Alder's opening address: "The hand
that rocks the cradle is the hand that rules the
world." This sentiment was written long ago;
but it is just as true to-day as it was then. It
has from time immemorial been conceded that
the home (that dearest spot on earth), is the
woman's kingdom. And many women there
are, even to-day, who desire no other sphere.
History shows that adown all the ages the
mother who rocks the cradle and carefully
raises her sons, has through them ruled the
world. But shall not our daughters be taught
also, and have just as many privileges as our
sons? Most assuredly. We can look around
us and see many of our sisters who have to
struggle with the hard realities of life. Some
of them are widows, some of them chose never
to marry. They own property, either much
or little, on which they must pay taxes for the
support of the government, both local and
general. Yet they must never have a voice in
the choice of that government's servants.
Woman suffrage is a live question before all
thinking minds and many nations to-day.
Think for a moment of the prospect confront-
ing our own government welcoming as it does
the down-trodden and oppressed of every clime
to its shores. This emigration brings many
who are utterly ignorant of the first true
principles of government. Scheming politi-
cians can buy this vote, also the average negro
vote, for a very small sum of money. This
has conduced to much of the corruption exist-
ing to-day. You can see that when woman
gains the ballot, and we regain our ballot, her
vote, given intelligently and wisely, will offset
the vote of ignorance and fraud. God speed
the day.
	Prof. James E. Talmage following Mrs.
Alder in a short address, said:
	The feelings that animate my mind on this
occasion are peculiar indeed. This is owing

[Column 2]

in some degree doubtlessly to the nature of the
audience, but more especially to the wide in-
terest, and the far-reaching importance of the
topic of the day. I say "far-reaching import-
ance," intentionally, and with no idle meaning
attached to the words; for it is certain that the
problem to which this honorable association is
seeking a proper solution, is of interest to the 
human race at large.
	My humble opinions upon the matter are of
a simple and commonplace kind; but not, I
trust, insincere or immature on that account.
The conclusions at which I have arrived in the
consideration of the subject are based upon no
comparison of legal political advantages or
disadvantages likely to result from conferring
the rights of suffrage upon woman; but upon
the justice of her claims to these rights as wit-
nessed by the word of the Almighty. Man, in
his studied wisdom, has learned this great
lesson of Nature—that the Creator has fitted
every object of His care to the purpose of its
being. Is it then to be thought that woman is
less completely endowed with the capacities of 
her calling than is man for his? It has been
often said that woman, in the sphere allotted
to her existence, is as perfect as man. I would
say in place of this, that in her sphere woman
is as much the superior of man as does man
excel in his proper powers. Nature has been
as liberal in endowing woman—Jehovah's
daughter—as in blessing man—His son.
	The objections that have been raised to the
enfranchisement of women in this land of repub-
lican freedom are mostly based  upon the fear
of the incapacity of women for the offices and
stern duties of citizenship. If these fears
appeared to have  solid foundation, I, too,
would be loth to witness such a change. It
has been wisely said here to-day, that the home
is woman's kingdom; and I feel sincerely that
the true woman, reigning in her home as a
queen, will prove too deeply interested in the
affiars of that sacred domain to desert the
throne in any endeavor for political preferment.
We may repose implicit conficence in womanly
nature; and never need we fear feminine as-
pirations toward positions unfitted for woman's
capacity.
	That the giving of suffrage to woman would
change much of the state at present existiug in
the politics of the day, I have no doubt, but
for such a change I most sincerely hope. My
greatest regret is that woman has to plead and
beg for that which rightly belongs to her. She
is affected by the laws equally with man, and it
is just that her voice should be as willingly
heard as his in the choice of the law-makers
and officials to execute the laws.
	God speed the day when woman shall have
her heaven born rights.
	Mrs. M. Y. Dougall then read an open letter
from the Association to the ladies of America,
and Mrs. Nellie Little read, very effectively,
a synopsis of the speech of Judge Jere Wilson,
which was listened to with marked attention.
	The eloquent speech of Delegate Mrs. Emily
S. Richards, which was given before the Na-
tional Woman's Suffrage Association Conven-
tion at Washington, D. C., was read by Mrs.
Charlotte I Kirby.
	Mr. James T. Cobb, being called upon, re-
sponded in a very acceptable speech on woman
suffrage.
	The meeting then adjourned.
		CORNELIA H. CLAYTON, Secretary.


Feburary 7th, Senator Blair, of the com-
mittee on Woman suffrage, reported back
favorably the joint resolution proposing a con-
stitutional amendment to prohibit the denial
or abridgement of the right to vote by the
United States or any state on account of sex.
It was placed on the calendar; Sen. Cockrell
said a minority report would be made here-
after.—Ex.


