TOOELE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society, Y. L. M. I. A.
and Primary Associations of Tooele Stake,
which convened in the Tooele meeting house,
Dec. 8th and 9th, 1888, Prest. Mary A. Hunter
presiding. There were present from Salt Lake
City, Sisters Zina D. H. Young and Bathsheba
W. Smith.
	Sister Hunter made some opening remarks,
and some verbal reports of the wards were
given, showing each branch Society to be in a
prosperous condition, except the small settle-
ments, which need to be encouraged in their
meetings and association one with another; some
have become lukewarm in attending to their
duties.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young gave some very
good and interesting instructions to all, and to
mothers especially, and spoke by the Spirit of
God. Said, "Mothers have a great work to
do and a great mission to fill in raising up
their children in a proper manner. Our child-
ren who are obedient to the Gospel are a great
and shining light, and we should be very care-
ful to set a good example before them, so that
they may walk in our footstep." Gave much
valuable advice, which I hope we shall all fol-
low out.
	Sister B. W. Smith said, "I am pleased to
meet with my brethren and sisters this morning;
desire the faith and prayers of all, that what I
say may be a benefit to some one, for we meet
together to do each other good. We all have
our troubles and weaknesses, but I feel that
the Relief Society is a blessing, and if we do
our duty we shall get our reward, and know
that this is the kingdom of God." The
speaker prayed that we might all do our duty
and come off victorious. "The Sunday School
is a great blessing, and parents should go with
their children and see that they behave proper-
ly." Encouraged the sisters in their every day
duties, and made other remarks calculated to
do good.
	The choir sang.  Dismissed by R. Mickel-
john.
	In the afternoon Primary Conference con-
vened, when nearly all the time was occupied
with songs and recitations by the children,
which were very interesting, and they proved
that they had been well taught and instructed
by their President, Sister Bowen, and her
Counselors.
	In the evening the Young Ladies held their
Conference. They had prepared a short pro-
gramme, and then the sisters from Salt Lake
City gave them some very good instruction—
how to live every day, and to take care of their
health; several of the young men also spoke
at the conference.
	On Sunday morning the sisters met with the
Sunday School and made some very interest-
ing remarks, which were very much apprecia-
ted, and in the afternoon the Relief Society
met again, and the sisters from Salt Lake City

[Column 3]

addressed the congregation; also some of the
brethren, and they testified that the conference
had been a very interesting one throughout,
and that the good instructions that had been
given were by the Spirit of God and suited to
all.
	The conference adjourned for six months, to
be held in Grantsville.
		ANN TATE,
	Cor. Sec. Tooele Stake.


