IN MEMORIAM.
Died, at the residence of her son, near Elba,
Cassia Co., Idaho, on Nov. 13th, 1888, of pneu-
monia, Nancy H. Clark, wife of Ezra T. Clark,


of Farmington, Davis Co., Utah.  She was born 
in Virginia, Trumball Co., Ohio, August 8, 1825.  
	She was the daughter of Sanford and Nancy 
Porter. Her parents joined the Church of Jesus 
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1831, and moved to 
Jackson Co., Missouri, in 1832; was baptized in 
Jackson Co. when eight years old, in 1833.  The 
same year the Saints were driven from that Co., 
sharing in the sufferings of that memorable perse-
cution for religion's sake, their persecutors being 
citizens of this glorious land of the free, etc., yet 
their wicked actions will ere long be looked upon 
with the same contempt as the Christian world 
now view the similar treatment of the ancient be-
lievers of the meek and lowly Jesus.  
	She came to Utah in 1847; has always been an 
earnest worker and firm believer in the principles 
of the everlasting Gospel, taking a leading part 
in the different organizations; was President of 
the Y. L. M. I. Associations of Davis Stake 
about five years, when she was chosen to preside 
over the Relief Society of the Stake, in which 
position she acted until she was called to labor in 
the Logan Temple in March, 1885, where she has 
been a diligent worker until within a few weeks 
of her death, when she was released to go on a 
visit to her son.  While going there she contracted 
a violent cold, which resulted in her death.
	She always manifested in her labors that meek 
and unselfish disposition characteristic of a true 
Saint of God, charity for all being one of her 
leading virtues.  
	The Bible promise, as recorded in Luke xiv, 17, 
that those who believed should speak in new 
tongues, has been verified many times through 
her speaking in tongues, the gift being given to 
her before she was eight years old.  
	The funeral services were held in the Farming-
ton meeting house.  The casket was carried from 
her late residence to the meeting house by the 
authorities of the ward, followed by the Relief 
Society and Y. L. M. I. A. in procession.  The 
meeting house was beautifully decorated with 
flowers brought by the young ladies.  Appropri-
ate remarks were made by Elder James T. Smith, 
Patriarch J. H. Tippets and Prest. Anson Call. 
	She had three sons, one daughier and twenty 
grandchildren.  A large concourse of relatives
and friends followed her remains to their last 
resting place.  
