A NOBLE ENDEAVOR.

	There have been some heroic efforts made by
the "Mormon" people of Utah Territory towards
a state government, so as to give some local self-
government into the hands of those, who have
settled the country and subdued the soil, making
it fertile, whereas it was barren, and beautifying
the land, rendering it habitable, aed desirable for
man. The efforts made for statehood for Utah
are worthy the commendation of all who value
freedom, and who possess individuality in its
truest and broadest sense. To have some local
representation, and choose who shall administer
the laws is, we believe, American in principle,
but to tamely and without endeavor to obtain
statehood, submit to a Territorial form of govern-
ment, when every necessary condition has been
complied with, seems very un-American, and not
at all in harmony with the spirit of liberty that
characterized the forefathers of New England and
of this free Republic, of whose memory and
nobility of purpose, succeeding generations have
been justly proud.
	Yet it is said of this people that they are not
American, they are aliens, and cannot appreciate
the spirit of the Republican government. While
pleading and interceding for the very privileges
and rights which the grand old Constitution and
Declaration of Rights vouchsafes to all citizens,
they are accused of disloyalty, insincerity and
other treacheries, and denounced as hostile to the
laws of the nation.
	All the logic brought to bear upon the ques-
tion of statehood by Delegate Caine, Attorney
Richards, Judge Wilson and others who have
spoken, has so far failed to bring about the de-
sired blessing—statehood for Utah—on account
of the terrible prejudice against the "Mormons,"
which has arisen through misrepresentation,
malice and envy of those who style themselves
"Liberals."  The report of the "Hearings Before
the Committee on Territories in regard to the Ad-
mission of Utah as a State" is well worth reading,
and all fair-minded people not blinded by preju-
dice, may, by perusing the arguments made be-
come posted in reference to what has been done
to build up the country and the definite steps
taken to gain admittance to the Union as a State.
Both sides were presented at the hearings, and
consequently the reader has the main points in
favor of and against admission. However, it is
easy to see that it is the religion of the people
that these non-Mormons object to, or they make
it appear so. Yet they live under a government
tolerant in all its vital principles to all religious
faiths. Judge McBride does not pretend to
base his objections upon plural marriage, but
states, "I believe with other gentlemen that
polygamy must, by pressure from the outside
world, cease to exist in time." The Judge objects

[Column 2]

to a religion that enters into government. In all
ages of the world, whenever the Lord had any
great work to perform, objectors have risen up
against the methods of procedure used by Him.
There are plenty of instances of this kind on
record, yet He says His ways are not as man's
ways; and one might well say if there was more
of God in the governments of nations, there
would be less dissension and far less crime. The
"Mormon" people believe that the Constitution of
this Republic is God-given, and ask only to have
the same rights other men and women enjoy uu-
der its provisions.
	Rev. Olympia Brown, in her speech in the re-
cent Convention of the N. W. S. A. in Washing-
ton, seems to think it would be well to have the
Protestant religion represented in the government,
for she says, "We (the people of the United
States), are in danger of Catholic domination, not
because they are so numerous, but because the
Catholic Church is represented at the polls, and
the Protestant Church is not." She establishes
this fact by stating that, "The foreigners are
Catholics, the greater portion of them; the
foreigners are men, the greater part of them, and
the men of the Catholic Church are interested in
the Church, and they belong to it and they work
for it, and vote for it. "The Protestant Church is
composed of women. Men for the most part do
not belong to it. They do not care much for it,
except as a pious thing to interest the women of
their household. The consequence is, the Pro-
testant Church is unrepresented here.
And so when it comes to voting, the Protestant
Church is unrepresented."
	Now, it is astonishing that some one does not
intefere with the Catholic votes and voting, and
give them a test oath, as they have the "Mor-
mons," lest religion should get into the politics of
the nation. The Reverend lady from whom we
have quoted said some very plain things about
this great Republic, that if a "Mormon" had said
would be called treason; and she prophesied, too.
But perhaps they think "it was only a woman,"
and therefore do not heed it; but they are strong
expressions and worthy of solemn consideration.
Read them and judge.
	"We are tending toward ruin, and I predict
that if women are not enfranchised, and that right
speedily, there will be no Republic here in twenty-
five years. I do not believe that this Republic
can stand, with the voice of anarchy heard in our
great cities, with the hands of intelligent people
tied, motherhood disregarded, the social evil
rapidly fastening on our national life as a legalized
institution, with the increase of licentiousness and
intemperance. I believe that the day of ruin is at
hand for our institutions and government unless
the voice of our women is heard, and unless they
are called into the councils of the nation."
	Judge Wilson, in answer to His Excellency,
Gov. West, who had been energetically opposing
the admission of Utah to Statehood, emphatically
answers all the Governor's objections, and the
discussion between them is calculated to clearly
establish the claims of the Territory to self-gov-
ernment. Forty years of Territorial government
is a long period to serve in such a subordinate
capacity, and Utah most certainly is entitled to an
honorable place in the galaxy of states. The
population has long been sufficient, and all other
necessary conditions have been complied with,
and yet men who profess to believe in progression
for all humantty, and to possess the attributes of
charity, as well as justice and mercy, are using all
their powers of persuasion with tongue and pen,
and whatever social or political influence they are
capable of exercising, to hinder the people of the
Territory from obtaining their just rights.
	The same Reverend lady from whom we quoted
previously, speeking of woman's disfranchisement
exclaimed, "Whose country is this? Who made

[Column 3]

this country? Who have periled their lives for
this country?"
	In view of the anxiety of certain men to ex-
clude the people of Utah from obtaining state-
hood, to which they are justly and morally entitled,
those who have helped to make this desert blos-
som as the rose," who came here when it was a
barren waste, and who know, as the writer does,
that Salt Lake City was not a "meadow with tall
grass waving," etc., can scarcely help feeling
their indignation somewhat roused when they read
and when they hear such mis-statements as have
been made before the Committee on Territories;
and they feel like exlaiming, if they don't,
"Whose Territory is this? Who made this Terri-
tory?" The "Mormon" men wjio came here at
an early day, had some hard work to do, and
much privation to endure and perils to encounter,
and the "Mormon" women rocked their babies
where the wolves howled and the Indians pow-
wowed in their hearing, and endured all sorts of
trial and hardships, as well as poverty, in order to
build up the country,subdue the soil and establish
homes, not only for themselves, but for those who
should come after them.
	There is nothing lost in such a vigorous contest
as has been made for the right. The great men
of the nation and the wise are becoming.informed
upon matters that were unknown to them hereto-
fore; they are getting down to the bed rock of
Mormonism, and little by little are becoming ac-
quainted with this "peculiar people" and their
principles, and by and by they will be willing and
ready as well as anxious to acknowledge them as
a part of the' great body politic, and until then the
people of Utah who desire statehood must sub-
mit with what grace is possible to the persistent
refusal of Congress to acknowledge their rights to
a state' government.


