EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of the Cassia Stake con-
vened in conference at Oakley, Dec. 21, 1888.
Present on the stand, Prest. Louisa Haight,
with Counselors E. Tuttle and A. Wilson,
Bros. H. D. Haight and M. Pickett of Stake
Presidency, Bro. Robert Wilson, also presi-
dents of the various branches of the Relief
Society. Conference opened with singing and
prayer. Opening remarks by Prest. Louisa
Haight. Minutes of preceding conference
read and accepted. Satisfactory reports of
the ward organizations were listened to.
	Prest. Louisa Haight advised the teachers
not to put off visiting their ward until the last
day. Said, "There are many temporal duties,
but they should be so arranged as to give time
for spiritual ones; it is useless to spend our
whole time drudging for the things of the
earth, which we cannot take with us."
	Bro. Moroni Pickett then spoke at some
length in an instructive manner; said the sis-
ters in their deeds of charity should think of
what the Savior said: "Inasmuch as ye do it
unto one of these, ye do it unto me."
	Coun. Elizabeth Tuttle wondered how the
sisters could miss the enjoyable time of confer-
ence. Said, "Mothers are the educators of their
children; they could do much to have honest
men, or they could neglect the teaching and
let them wander away.
	Coun. Ann Wilson knew of no comfort out-
side of the Gospel. Wondered how the doc-
trines taught in the world could be called true
religion. Spoke of the duty resting upon the
Society of visiting the sick. Adjourned till 2
p.m.
	Afternoon session: Opened by singing and
prayer.
	Bro. Cyrus Tolman: "It is said we should
cry unto the Lord to have care over our flocks,
for food and raiment, etc., but further it is
said, 'If ye look not after the poor it cometh
to nothing.' Our religion is vain if we are not
willing to deal out our substance for the com-
fort of the poor."
	Sister Clara Smith bore a strong testimony;
knew the Gospel to be the only plan that
could bring us back to our Heavenly Father.
	Bro. Jacob Daley said, "The Snints are im-
bued with the spirit of gathering, that they
may prepare and teach a rising generation for
future usefulness. They are engaged in a
work calculated to exalt, if the teachings of
the prophets are adhered to."

[Column 2]

	Sister Priscilla Worthing was the next
speaker; said, "The duty of the Society is to
help the poor and the sick, and not to help
furnish temples or build meeting houses."
	Bishop A. G. Smith, of Marion, spoke con-
cerning teaching by example; attending con-
ference, and being a gain to endure persecu-
tion.
	Remarks by Louisa Pickett. followed by
Bishop J. T. Smith, of Oakley, who said, "Our
mission should begin at home. Children
should be able to see that their fathers had re-
spect for their mothers. As a people we have
neglected to cultivate refinement; we should
ever appear as true ladies and gentlemen."
	Stake authorities presented and sustained.
Instructions from Bro. H. D. Haight, Stake
President. Conference adjourned for three
months.
