CONSTITUTION.

	ARTICLE I.—The name of this Association
shall be "The National Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion."
	ARTICLE II.—The object of this Association
shall be to secure protection in their right to vote
to the women citizens of the United States by
appropriate National and State legislation.
	ARTICLE III.—Section 1.—All citizens of the
United States, subscribing to this Constitution
and paying not less than one dollar annually into
the treasury of this Association, shall become
members thereof, and shall be entitled to attend
all its meetings, to participate in all discussions
that may arise and to receive Reports and other
documents published by it.
	Section 2.—The payment of fifty dollars ($50,00)
into the treasury of this Association shall consti-
tute any citizen of the United States a life mem-
ber of the Association, with all the privileges be-
longing to regular annual members.
	ARTICLE IV.—Section I.—The officers of this
Association shall be a President, Vice-President
at Large, a Recording Secretary, a Correspond-
ing Secretary, a Treasurer, a Chairman of the
executive committee and two Auditors. The
officers named in this section shall be nominated
by an informal ballot at a business session of the
Annual Convention of the Association. The
three persons receiving the highest number of
votes for any office, shall be considered the nomi-
nees of the Convention for that office, and the will


of the Association shall be taken by a formal bal-
lot.
	Section 2.—Wherever state and territorial Asso-
ciations auxiliary to the National Woman Suffrage
Association exist, the Presidents of such Associa-
tions shall be considered Vice-Presidents of the
National Association, representing therein their
respective states and territories.
	Section 3.—Each State or Territorial auxiliary
Association shall elect from its membership one
person to serve on the Executive Committee of
the National Association.
	Section 4.—The President of the National
Woman Suffrage Association shall appoint a Vice-
President to represent on its Executive Board,
any State or Territory where no state or territorial
association exists auxiliary to the National Asso-
ciation.
	Section 5.—The officers enumerated in the pre-
ceding sections of this article shall constitute the
Executive Committee of this Association: of
these officers fifteen shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business.
	Section 6.—The Executive Committee shall
elect annually from the veterans of our cause, ten
or more Honorary Vice-Presidents.
	ARTICLE V.—This Constitution may be
amended by a majority vote, at any annual meet-
ing, notice of the amendment having been given
at any preceding annual meeting.


