EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	The President of the above Society has desired
me to write you a brief account of the work ac-
complished by it since its reorganization up till
the close of 1888.
	The Society was reorganized on March 9th,
1884, with Helen Bradford, President; Frances
Cornell and Frances Jennings, Counselors; Caro-
line Parratt, Secretary; Helen Bradford, Treas-
urer.
	Since that time, however, the First Counselor
has emigrated to Utah, and Sister Jennings now
holds that position, and Sister M. E. Scoles has
been chosen Second Counselor. The Secretary
has been succeeded by Elizabeth Bush, who also
emigrated to Utah in October last, and that posi-
tion is at present vacant.
	392 visits have been paid, and 62£ 9 shillings
and 4 1/2 pence has been given to the poor. The
Elders have been assisted to the amount of 25£,
11 shillings and 3 1/2 pence. This is for rent of
room and food. The attendance has been very
small, the usual number present not exceeding
six lately, although we have a number of names
on the books. The Saints are scattered, and
many too poor to travel, and the means at our
command very limited.
	The continued emigration and consequent loss


of members account for this to some extent, but
we are striving to use what we have to the best
advantage. We may say though few in number 
the spirit of unity prevails, and all work harmoni-
ously together, and have great joy in their labors. 
The Society is doing its best, and there are no
hard feelings among us. The Elders meet with 
the sisters from time to time, and much valuable
counsel is given and cherished. 
	It has been the President's wish, and the sisters
have so far carried it out to the best of their
ability, that when visiting we should go into the
different homes, not with a prying curiosity, or a
patronizing air, but with true sisterly feelings and
sympathy in our hearts for the sufferings and
sorrows of others. We have endeavored to carry
relief and the precious truths we are in possession 
of together into the houses of those we visit, and
rich is the reward when we hear and see what
happiness follows. There is a luxury above all 
others in this world, and it is the exquisite luxury
of doing good to our fellow creatures, although
we may be only messengers, only carriers, only
instruments in the hands of others, there is one
sight seen of us that few others ever see—
the grateful look, the eloquent tear, and the fer-
vent "God bless you!" In the first blush of sur-
prise and thankfulness lies our reward and the
reward of the benevolent also. 
	We desire to go on with this work and lighten
many hearts and cheer many homes, and trust
that means will ever be in our hands to give to 
the needy and sick and afflicted, and health to 
carry on this noble work. 
	Your sister in the Gospel, 
	M. E. SCOLES, Sec. pro tem.


