THE TESTIMONY OF A PROPHET Birthday Congratulations to President David 0. McKay September 8, 1966 Behold, here is wisdom; yea, to be a seer, and a revelator, a translator, and a prophet, having all the gifts of God which he bestows upon the head of the church (D&C 107: 92). On this ninety-third birthday of President David O. McKay, Relief Society members in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend to him their love and their appreciation for his prophetic counsel. With gratitude and rejoicing, the women of the Church recall at this birthday time the teachings and the testimony of the Prophet who dwells among us, and who has traveled to the continents and the islands of the sea—to the many nations—declaring his steadfast faith in the restored gospel. As a special witness, ordained as prophet, seer, and revelator, he has spoken with authority and inspiration as one called in these latter-days to declare that the Redeemer lives and has placed upon the earth a knowledge of his plan of salvation. President McKay's testimony is a light and an illumination for all who are striving to perfect their own understanding of the gospel and to plan their lives in accordance with divine direction. Throughout the years of his ministry among the saints and during his world-wide journeys, he has widened the horizons of those who have heard his voice, and has lifted to higher aspirations the spiritual yearnings of those who seek a true and eternal knowledge of the gospel. Many of these treasures of truth — words of testimony — have become a heritage of wisdom and spiritual direction. On this occasion of President McKay's birthday, we consider again a sparkling garland from his prophetic gems of truth, and we are strengthened anew by his testimony of belief in Jesus Christ and the restored gospel: I know he lives and his power is potent; that he is the Son of God, and that he has restored in this dispensation the complete plan of salvation. As surely as you can tune in on the radio and hear voices from afar, so sure am I that God our Father lives, and the soul of man can commune with him through the Holy Spirit. I give you that as my testimony; I know it. I testify to you that God lives, and that he is guiding this Church, that he has inspired those at the head, and that he will continue to inspire them and lead them. It is in this sense of unwavering trust that I refer to faith in Christ as the most important need of the world — a belief that determines a man's religion. It is more than a mere feeling. It is power that moves to action and should be in human life the most basic of all motivating forces.... I commend you to think seriously about these matters. They give comfort and solace which can be obtained in no other way. God has spoken. The day of Israel is here, and the coming of the Son of Man is not far off. How many years it matters not. It is nearby. We must do our part and prepare for it. The greatest event of the nineteenth century was the appearing of two heavenly Beings to the boy Prophet Joseph Smith, revealing the personal identity respectively of God the Eternal Father and of his Son Jesus Christ. As Relief Society women who have been privileged to hear and bear record of the counsel and the testimony of President McKay, we wish for him on his birthday much happiness and contentment and the prayers of the saints for his welfare. Truly, we are thankful that a prophet dwells among us. REPORT