Woman With Plants' by Grant Wood (1892-1942), American (Cedar Rapids Art Association, Cedar Rapids, lowa) Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson 7— ''Wisdom Teaches Right"' Commentary by Floyd E. Breinholt, Assistant Professor of Art, Brigham Young University One cannot look at the "Woman with Plants" without feeling that here is a woman who exemplifies the statement, 'the salt of the earth,' and showing greatness, strength, wisdom. She seems visually to portray Dr. Bruce Clark's definition of wisdom at its highest: "It is knowledge, experience, and insight combined, anchored in faith, and enlightened by inspiration." We are advised diligently to seek wisdom from all sources—''knock and _ it shall be opened unto you, seek and ye shall find." We are not told that it will be easy to find, but we are told that it will be of great worth. It is interesting to note that the life of Grant Wood seems to follow this injunction. He worked hard as a youth, supporting himself from the age of ten. He taught himself to draw. When he decided to become an artist, he was plagued with a feeling of inferiority culturally because of his background, and felt that he was not proceeding properly because of his lack of training. But he worked. He studied in Europe a number of times, trying to acquire the culture and methods of the Impressionists, each time falling short of his goal, but continually trying to find himself. Then, suddenly, as if by a flash of revelation, he became a painter of the American scene and its people who has no equal. He used his own rural background, he discovered the beauty and truth which had always been around him, and of which he was a part. He struggled, he worked, he looked, he sought, and, finally, it was given to him. This painting is a portrait of his mother, a pioneer woman. We see in it his affection for her, her stately humility, experience, forbearance, and one who has lived much, learned much, given much, received much, and is wise. No doubt Grant Wood was not aware at the time he painted this portrait that it would achieve fame. Yet one cannot help but sense that he received much personal gratification from the fact that he now knew he could be true to himself, could exercise the gift that he had received, and in his own peculiar manner present that which was his alone to give., "The Bath" (La Toilette) by Mary Cassatt (1845-1926), American (Art Institute of Chicago) Painting to be studied in connection with Cultural Refinement Lesson 3— "Humility Yields Strength.'' Commentary by Floyd E. Breinhoilt, Assistant Professor of Art, Brigham Young University The subject matter of art never changes. It is the way the artist "sees" it that changes. Thus the one who looks at a painting sees in it what he knows. Instead of saying, 'I know what I like,' he might better say, "I like what I know." Content matter chosen by an artist is usually something that is of value to him, something that has touched him deeply or has become a part of him. Mary Cassatt, perhaps America's most famous woman painter, was especially fond of painting mothers, babies, and children, and the tenderness shown in their relationships to each other. This painting, "The Bath," glorifies the humble task of the mother in bathing her child. That which is felt (the willing service and anxious love, the choice to do this humble service) seems to be the subject of the painting. One is reminded of the incident in the scriptures 689 (Continued from page 678) Forming the flower. Lay a knitting needle across the outer edge of a petal and roll tightly all the way to the tapered point. Push with thumbs the rolled petal toward the center of the needle as an accordion. Remove petal from the needle, and continue the process until all of the desired petals are rolled. Then begin with the smaller petals and wrap them around stamens (which can be secured from craft shops or department stores) about three stamens to each flower. Be careful not to wrap the petals too tightly. With a small piece of florist's wire bind the petals and the stamens together into a blossom. Preparing a Drip Box. Prepare ahead of time. The drip box is made from the bottom part of a cardboard box large enough to accommodate the number of flowers you wish to dip. Cut slits 1 inch deep and 5 to 6 inches apart at each end of the box. String sturdy wire across the box and hook it in the slits at each end. Line the bottom of the box with several layers of newspaper. Dipping the Flowers. The dipping solution (1 pint of plastic and 40 drops of catalyst) is mixed in a No. 2144 can and stirred well. Dip each poppy completely into the solution and squeeze and shake, (important step) hang it by the stem in the drip box. This process is best accomplished outdoors. After all of the flowers have been dipped, pick up the first dipped poppy (still wet), and gently pull the petals apart and shape them into pleasing form. After each flower is shaped, place it (stem down) in a small frozen juice can (nothing larger). Push the flower about one inch down into the can so that the petals will not droop over the sides. Dry in hot sunlight three hours (no longer). If not completely dry, move the flowers into shade and leave them as long as necessary. The next day (do not wait any longer or the flowers will tear) remove the flowers carefully from the cans. Paint over all the petals with a coat of plastic resin (prepared with catalyst according to directions as before). Place each flower, as painted, back in its can and allow to dry. If the blossoms need some re-shaping later, place them out in the hot sunshine, so they will - become pliable. Attaching stems. Use straight lengths of white wire from a clothes hanger for stems. Place the end of the wire along the base of the flower and then wrap with white florist's tape. Wrap all flowers and buds the same way, but occasionally wrap a bud or two in with the sheathing of the flower stem. After the wrapping with tape, wrap again with white florist's ribbon. Plastic leaves can be used in arrangements with the poppies, or various types of plastic greenery can be used. Making crystal leaves. Prepare a mold by cutting from an aluminum pie tin a pattern similar to the one below. Cut the leaf 4 inch larger than the desired finished size, and fold up the edges to form the sides of the mold. Fill the molds full of "cooking crystals" (granules of plastic), level off the top, and place molds on a cookie sheet covered with heavy aluminum foil. Place in a preheated oven (400°F) and cook for exactly 12 minutes. (Longer cooking may melt the plastic too much and turn it yellow). Working quickly, remove cookie sheet from oven and take molds one at a time on to hot pads. Bend and shape the leaves (still in molds!) artistically to take away the stiff look. If leaves harden in molds before shaping—return to oven to soften. Heat an ice pick red hot and make a hole at the base of the leaf for inserting, the stem (made of heavy florist wire). Wrap the stem with tape as directed for the flowers, about three inches down the stem. Pattern for Organdy Crystal Leaf Poppy Petal 691 — Ee. e¢. _; + wed r¢ nie Ellis Farnsworth Nielsen, El Paso, Texas, daughter of pioneers who were creators of beauty in the wilderness, has made hundreds of handicraft articles which represent her love of beauty, and the exactness of her artistic techniques. A recent specialty has been the making of pillows, baby quilts, and beautiful! Dolls to delight the children and decorate the nursery and the bedrooms. As a quilter and designer of quilts, Sister Nielsen has contributed hundreds of hours of time and many quilts to Relief Society. She has taught the fine art of quilting in several wards and has served as quilting chairman. Sister Nielsen has developed her outstanding leadership and executive talents by serving as counselor and as president in ward Relief Societies, and her long years of devotion as a visiting teacher have been a comfort and an inspiration to women in many wards. She has also been a teacher in MIA and in Primary. Always sensitive and obedient to the needs of her numerous friends and relatives, she has rejoiced in her abundant opportunities to be useful, as she says, ''among the daughters of Zion,'' and in further fields of service. - 692 As though sensing my need of something to divert me from my afflictions and tiredness, little birds of various kinds and colors gather daily to frisk about and feed just outside my north window. Here they eye me speculatively. Countless seeds have been scattered here from weeds that have been allowed to creep closer and closer, encroaching upon my dwelling through the long period of my illness. Yesterday I had the good fortune to witness a one-bird drama, when a large dove, alone by itself, waddled in on the scene. What a fat bird! Was my instant reaction. What a meat pie for the hunter! Never had I seen a dove before that appeared so strangely and uncommonly buxom. Its feathers were a trifle ruffled, as if through a slight contact with a cat or other foe. Its tail feathers seemed slightly separated from the pinions of its body. A fluffy row of off-white feathers was revealed, protruding daringly from under its left wing.