[Vol9 | May 1922 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Note Nephi Anderson]

NOTE By Nephi Anderson "There isn't a workman, I venture to say, in any city or town or even large village, in the whole length and breadth of the United States, who has any social recognition, if he is still working at his trade. I don't mean, merely, that he is excluded from rich and fashionable society, but from the society of the average educated people....... The severance of the man who works for his living with his hands, from the man who does not work for his living with his hands, is so complete, and apparently  so final, that nobody even imagines anything else, not even in fiction" ?William Dean Howells, in A Traveler From Altruria. It seems a pity that William Deal Howells, that "Dean of American Literature," could not have been acquainted sufficiently with the '"Mormons"?their life and religion, so that he could have made an exception to the sweeping declaration regarding the standing of a man who works for his living with his hands in contrast to the man who does not. Such a keen abserver of life as the author of The Treaveler From Altruria was no doubt justified in making the statement which he did on the present condition or organized society not only in these United States, but in every other civilized nation. It is true that there is in modern society a distinct cleavage between the man who works with his hands and the man who does not; and this is strikingly true in Christian communities, although the religion of these same Christians plainly teach that, all other things being equal, there should be no social distinctions between these two classes; for, Paul says: "By one spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free; and have been all made to drink into one spirit." The test of any profession of religion is its effects on the actual living conditions of its professors. The Latter-day Saints claim they have the religion spoken of by Paul, and by the Master himself, as making for oneness and equality, not only in an ethical sense, but in actual contact of everyday life. If the religion of Jesus Christ teaches one truth more emphatically than another, it is that honest labor of all kinds is equally honorable, and should constitute no bar to the social intercourse which is so essential in a community professing a unity of faith. In every "Mormon" community we find ample proof that this unity and brotherly love is no mere theory. The bishop of the ward is frequently the town carpenter. The stake president is very often a farmer. The teacher of the theological class in the Sunday school may be the village shoemaker. All these meet on a perfectly equal social plane on many occasions, with the high school principal, the merchant, or the banker. The gardener may be the spiritual adviser of the capitalist. The wife of the banker visits with the wife of the bricklayer. The son of the tean: ster marries the daughter of the college professor. Character only is the test which makes for class distinction with true Latter-day Saints. William Dean Howells' severe indictment against the world must very likely stand; but the Latter-day Saints, having come out of the world, cannot be truthfully included in this criticism of the world's weakness, unfairness, and selfishness. THE. FAMILY TREE Our fathers planted the family tree And tended it with anxious zeal; What did they know, what could they see, Of future cares or of future weal? Long have those heroes been asleep, Leaving the labor to you and to me; Many the sons and daughters keep For good or for ill the family tree. Much has been done, there is much to do; What shall we answer, what shall we say? Have we kept the faith, have we all been true? In the present light of a later day, Of future labors, of future light, What do we know, what can we see? From the planting of oh, so long ago, What shall the harvest be? ?TIsrael Bennion, 1920 GOLDENROD I've loved the little wayward paths that hurry up the hill, And never tire all the day, but lure me on until My weary road is left behind to journey where it will. That way the blythe-souled goldenrod, her summer to beguile, Crowds nigh against the footway to give and take a smile? Ah, Loveliness, but summer is such a little while! And why you are, of all my loves, the love I must confess Has thralled the rover's heart of me, I cannot tell, unless It is that round my joy you fling. A sweet regretfulness. I've loved the way?I've said it was a gracious way I trod, Whichever way my chancing feet have found you, goldenrod? Each little upward path we took, a nearer one to God. Riveina Lundgren.