Guide Lessons for December LESSON 1 Theology and Testimony (First week in December) Book or Mormon: Assignment This lesson covers the Book of Alma from chapters fifty-three to the end, including chapter fifty-three. In the latest edition of the Book of Mormon it covers twenty-eight pages. Since the greater part of the history recorded here either relates directly to the activities of two thousand young Ammonite soldiers or grows out of those activities, we have chosen to center the lesson in this remarkable group of boys. The Story The story is as follows, briefly told: The people of Ammon, as they were called, chafed under the fact that they had convenanted never to take up arms against their fellows. Yet their adopted country was in peril from the Lamanites. If it had not been for the persuasions of the Nephite leaders, they would have broken that covenant and joined the army. _ But since that covenant was entered into, a new generation of men had grown up. The way out was therefore clear. These young men, of whom there were two thousand. *Through a mistake the first lesson for this year was given as beginning with / chapter 37 of Alma. It should have been / chapter 29. This matter should be read, so as to keep the thread of the history. HELAMAN's "STRIPLING SOLDIERS" could fight for their country. And so they did, under the leadership of the chief high priest—Helaman. This was while the war was at its height—the year twenty-six of the Reign of the Judges. Later, sixty others joined the force. Five years, all told, these youths were in the thick of the fight in one section of the country. They were brave to the point of daring; they not only never flinched nor held back in an emergency, but were always eager to throw themselves into line; sometimes their commander put it up to them whether or not they should fight, but invariably their answer was an eager yes. And yet, not one of the two thousand sixty met death, although every one of them was wounded many times. This is remarkable. It was thought so by Helaman and by the whole force in that part of the country. Over and over again Helaman, in his letter to Moroni, comments upon the strangeness of the fact.. Not only so. But Helaman, after inquiring of the boys themselves, attributed it to their faith in the power of God. And, when he inquired into the source of this implicit faith, he found it in the wonderful mothers of these wonderful boys. "Our mothers taught us that, if we did not doubt, God would deliver " us." It isan extraordinary application of faith. Aaa  Notes 1. A Background of War: Our own World War lasted four years. We thought that a long time, we who lived through it. And it was. But what shall we say of a war that continued for almost thirteen years? That is how long this war lasted between the Nephites and _ the Lamanites, if we count from the time of the defection of Amalickiah the Traitor. The war spirit was everywhere. Evidently, however, there was no "draft law' among the Nephites, either at this time or at any time in their history. Whoever wanted to join the army, did so; and whoever wanted to stay at home, did that, too. And there were a great many "slackers" during these thirteen years. Also, the "king-men" were much in evidence at one time. For these not only still chafed under their defeat, but formed an alliance with the enemy, drove the chief judge from his office, and set up a king of their own. So that during at least part of the time that this war continued, these who were fighting to preserve their national existence, had to contend also. Against traitors in their own ranks. Since the beginning of the nation there had been no times quite so perilous. 2. The Spirit of the War: Men who have been in war in our own age —the Civil war, the Mexican war, the Spanish war, the World war—have said that, once they got the spirit of battle, it was not a difficult thing at all for them to choose their man on the opposite side and to pick him off as if he were a bird or an elk, and that the more they did of this the easier it was to do it. The spirit of war is blood. It brutalizes not only those who engage in the actual fighting, but it coarsens immeasurably those who are at home raising the food and supplying the equipment. That is the general rule. But here, in this war, there is a quite different spirit. We have already mentioned this fact, but it will bear amplification now, since it is so marked in the details of this lesson. The Nephites, not only the commanders but the soldiers as well, have a horror of taking human life. This feeling they have got out of their religion. Only an extreme situation can force them to kill their enemies. Teancum, that fine patriot so clearly outlined in such few lines, steals over the enemy walls at night and runs his sword through the sleeping Amalickiah, but it is only because by killing that arch-traitor, he can prevent a greater shedding of © blood. That section of the army where Helaman is, adopts the strategem in place of face to face fighting, chiefly because of this extreme reluctance to take human life. Moroni, time and again, refuses to take advantage of any situation to kill needlessly, or even to kill where it is obviously to his advantage. Even the two thousand young Ammonites say to Helaman, when he asks them if they will turn and fighr Antipus, ""We would not slay our brethren if they would let us alone." That is the thing in a nutshell. On the part of the Nephites the whole war is a war of defense. 3. Moroni the Soldier: The outstanding character in this war, of course, and one of the outstanding characters in the entire Book of Mormon, is Moroni, the commander in chief of the army. He is the embodiment of the finest that is to be found in man. — GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER He is a man of unbounded resource. It is probably he who first used armor and breastplates and shields among the Nephites. We gather this from the astonishment of the Lamanites who came against his men in that first battle. Also, it would seem, he was the first to throw up earth-works and top them with wooden breast-works as a means of protecting cities in times of war. At. Any rate, whenever an emergency arose, Moroni was always equal to the situation. He was never one to just wonder what to do; he thought the situation through, and acted. He was a patriot, if ever there was one. He loved liberty more than he did life. As soon as human freedom was threatened, he arose in its defense. That plea which he made at the beginning of the war stands unrivaled either in the Book of Mormon or elsewhere, for impassioned loyalty to a political ideal. And then, see how he writes to the chief. Judge, when it appears that something is wrong at home, while the men who are sacrificing to save their country are starving. "Behold, I will leave the blessings of God upon the army, and I will come unto you and stir up insurrections even until those who have desires to usurp power and authority shall become extinct." He has unusual common sense. "Do you suppose," he writes to Pahoran, "that the Lord will deliver us, while we sit upon our thrones and do not make use of the means which he has provided for us?" No man had deeper faith in the power of God than had Moroni. But he believed also that "God helps those who help themselves." And then, look at the broad sympathy and tol- 567 erance he has for the very men he is fighting—the Lamanites. In this same remarkable letter he writes, "Can you suppose that the Lord will spare you who are undermining our liberties and at the same time come out in judgment against the Lamanites, when, as a matter of fact, it is the tradition of their fathers that has caused their hatred against us?" He has the finest kind of restraint. Ambition is one of the strongest feelings in man. Man loves power, and usually he lets nothing stand in his way to it. At this time Moroni is easily the most powerful figure in the nation. The destinies of his people are in his hands. He is the commander of the army. He is conducting the greatest war of history, so far as the Nephites are concerned. And he is under no illusion as to his importance and his power. That is evident from the words and tenor of his letter to Pahoran. Yet he does not misuse his power. He could be the ruler of his nation, but he retires to private life so that he may die in peace. Washington is not more magnificent in this respect than Moroni. And that we are dealing with a primitive people does not lessen his grandeur. 4. Goodness against a_ Background of Evil: These things we have noted in the preceding paragraphs—the great reluctance of the Nephites to kill, the deeply religious nature of the commanding officers, the fine self-restraint of Moroni— are quite unique in the history of mankind. In the slime of war and degeneration there grows a fineness. A goodness, a spirit-control that is nothing short of beautiful. Imagine a modern general closing his report to his superior with the words which Helaman uses to Moroni: 568 "And now, my beloved brother, Moroni, may the Lord our God, who has redeemed us and made us free, keep you continually in his presence." Of course, we cannot imagine the thing in ancient times at all, outside of the Book of Mormon. It is this good in the midst of evil 'that Mormon, the abridger of the Nephite record, has in mind in his book, as he describes the war. Otherwise the details of the war would not have been set down at all. Mormon wishes to tell how the spirit of Christ dominated the Nephite life even in war. It is a great record. 5. Emigration: At the close of the war, there was a great deal of shipbuilding going on. Hagoth is mentioned in this connection, and is represented as being "an exceedingly curious man." The "land northward" was reached by way of the sea. But at least two of the ships, loaded with men, women and children, went out to sea and "were never heard of more." It was supposed by the historians that their passengers were "drowned in the depths of the sea." A great deal of curiosity has been expressed by the Latter-day Saints over this man Hagoth and these ships that never returned, especially since the conversion of so many Sandwich islanders to the faith. Many of our missionaries there have believed these natives to have been descendants of the people who left the mainland of America and, instead of being drowned, reached one of the islands and decided to stay there, or, finding themselves there, were unable to return. And RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE many things would go to show that this belief is founded in fact. Dr. Louis R. Sullivan, anthropologist of the Bishop's Museum at Honolulu, says that, although the matter of the origin of the Polynesian peoples has not been positively decided, he himself is convinced that they came originally from the same race as the American Indians. Questions 1. How do you suppose the mothers of the two thousand and sixty young Ammonite soldiers managed to implant such faith in God and his power in their hearts? Try to imagine the process. Is that sort of thing done today? 2. How do you account for the fact that these Ammonite mothers —and the Ammonites in general, as a matter of fact—exhibited more faith than the Nephite mothers, or the Nephites as a whole? 3. Justify the idea in the Nephite leaders that it was not a wise thing for the Ammonite men to break their oath and join the army. 4, Explain the war spirit among us during the World War. Show the particulars in which it was not wholesome in its effects, both during and after the armistice. How, then, would you account for the spirit shown during the Nephite war? References Reynolds—Dictionary 'of the Book of Mormon, under Helaman, Moroni, Teancum. Evans—Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon, Chapters 22, Zane, GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 569 LESSON 2 Work and Business (2nd Week in December) The Teacher's Topics for this season deal with material vital to our women, viz., the opportunities offered by the Relief Society, the obligations membership entails, and our responsibility to sustain the law and to. Sustain Church organizations. Our obligations to friends, family, and to ourselves will conclude this year's series of topics. We trust our teachers will enthuse those whom they visit with a desire to actively participate in Relief Society work, to sustain the law, to assist in building up Church ogarnizations, and to fulfill their obligations to their friends, their family, and to themselves. TEACHERS' Topic FOR DECEMBER (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in December. ) SPIRITUAL GROWTH IN THE RELIEF SocIETY Spiritual opportunities for women of our organization are many and varied. Covering a period of many years we have studied lessons in theology which have been plain, convincing, and inspirational. 'If we have lived up to our privileges we have been constant readers of the Scriptures, developing a deeper spiritual appreciation of, life. The privilege of working in temples is a developement which few women have experienced in the history of the world. Our testimony meetings each month where women may express gratitude for the blessings of the restored gospel, should be faith promoting and increase spirituality in our lives. Having husbands and sons holding and magnifying the priesthood and living according to its teachings will elevate and refine our lives, making possible the constant influence of the Spirit of God in our homes. The members of our great organization conduct their own meetings, giving an opportunity to thousands of women to learn the art of public prayer and benefit by its wholesome effect. The following figures taken from the 1929 Annual Report gives an idea of the number participating in verbal prayer. No. Of meetings held in wards |..... Eeeeeeeeeee54,955. No. Of meetings Stake and ward officers (Union).. 1,096. No. Of meetings Stake officers 2,085. No. Of meetings Ward Con-.... Ferences 1,192. 118,656.  LESSON 3 Literature (3rd Week in December) THE SuHort Story: ' Studying the Bible as literature, just as we would study a group of I<nglish poets, is a comparatively new thing. Too many people have thought of the Bible as God's word and let it go at that. Ever since the Bible was compiled, it has been recognized as one of the great literary works of the world, but it has not always been taught as such. Individuals have always been discovering that the Bible gave them as much pleasure as reading a good story or poem did. Then, instead of remembering the great bookas something heard in childhood and kept on a shelf to be read "sometime" for spiritual good, they read it because they really enjoyed it. But the Bible cannot and should not be detached from its spiritual message. The fact of its being God's revealed word makes it the more satisfying to read. Yet in this les- - son on "Biblical Literature' the stories should be considered first as stories given to us by the people of Gomeam 4 se oe we ' The six short stories are all from the ancient Hebraic people. Some of the stories have been taken from the Bible, one from the Apocrypha, and the others from the Talmud. It is impossible to trace the history of Jewish short stories up to and including modern times. The reason is not because the Jews have had few writers, for they have always numbered some of the world's greatest authors among them, but because their racial life has been too long confused. A few writers have used Hebrew, but most of them have BIBLICAL LITERATURE written in their adopted language. Today, the Jewish writers who wish to use their own tongue, employ modern Yiddish,._. = - The Book of Ruth is one of the great Hebrew stories. Characteristic of Hebrew, tt is written in overlapping prose and verse. It is often classified as an epi-idyl, for it treats of love and domestic life and is part of the historical panorama. There is no trace of war found in it; its disasters are those that come from grief, exile, and poverty; and its dramatic pictures are those of country festivities, folk ways, and devotion that go on undisturbed through the years. - - -, In the story of Ruth, Naomi is the strong character, one who achieved no great deed to make her name immortal, but who was beloved and remembered because of her magnetic personality and the steadfastness with which she lived her beliefs. Even her name meant "The Pleasant One." - + «+ = - Of her life before her marriage little is known, perhaps because it was so peaceful. Her troubled days came after her wedding. Famine was one of the first cruel visitors. Elimelech's land would not yield them a living, so in the manner of families of all time, they migrated to a more fruitful country. Moab was the land chosen. Here the young couple and their two small sons began their exile. The climate was different, the customs strange, and worst of all the Moabites worshipped alien gods. Now, the Jews, in spite of their long career of wandering, have ever been a home GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER Sz people, and the family must have lived with stifled desires for the home. Country. Time passed; Elimelech died; and Naomi was left to find wives for her sons. This was of utmost importance—the Jews believed in the immortality that comes from posterity. Ten years after both sons were married, they were taken by death, and there were no children to carry on the line. With no strong link to bind her, Naomi decided to return to Judah. She did not go alone as she had planned, for both Ruth and Orpha desired to go with her. Naomi, who | felt that she lived under a dark spell, discouraged the two women, but so great was Ruth's love for her mother-in-law that she cast aside all bonds of home and became herself an exile. Naomi-was still remembered and loved in her native land, but the family property had long passed to other hands. She had no other choice than to live in obscure poverty. From here on, the idyl pictures the wheat and barley harvest of the countryside; the progress of the reapers; the girls gleaning behind; the common meal taken in the heat of the day; and the master coming to greet his workers. Then Ruth appears to glean. The account of her love for Naomi has already made her a little talked of, and the story relates with a strange charm how the little attentions were paid to Ruth. Small details are supplied. There is the picture of Ruth eating what she thinks is sufficient and then saving a portion to take to Naomi, the sight of Ruth going home at night, not too weary to tell that she was well treated by the master, himself. Naomi recognizes that the master is Boaz, a kin of hers. Through - him Ruth's dark load may be lightened. The story tells us much of Boaz. He is a man of refinement and courtesy, along with his more material properties, and fit in every way for the courageous Ruth. In the end, Naomi sees her family line restored. The black cloud that has followed her is dispersed. When her first grandchild is born, the women of the city sing to her of how his name will become famous in Israel. The last words make the transition in the main historical theme by telling that young Obed was the father of Jesse, who was in turn sire to King David. The Bible houses many other epics, beautiful but lacking in the idyllic charm of Ruth. Among them is the story of Joseph, of Esther, of Balaam, of David, of Solomon. And so on interminably. From the New Testament the text selects two stories, "The Prodigal Son" and the "Raising of Lazarus." The first is one of Jesus' parables. In them he taught his message that God was One of love, that he was no longer an "eye for an eye" god of the Old Testament. This idea of God's being filled with love was new to the ancient world. \No religion had presented him in that light, and Jesus chose the beautifully effective way of the parables to make his message concrete. A parable, as every one knows, is a little story with a religious idea or moral truth. It originally meant putting one thing beside another, and it has always carried the fascination that comes from detecting a real likeness between things which people supposed were utterly unlike. "The Prodigal Son" is a small masterpiece of vivid portraitures, startling incidents, pathos, and dramatic power. Its theme has been used in hundreds of different ways. Today, writers could expand it into 572 a long short-story, a book, a drama, a motion picture, an epic poem, or a grand opera, but its original beauty would still be untouched. According to the rule of all good stories, not a word is wasted. The main theme is struck in the first sentence, and no further description is needed to tell us the character of the younger son. "He took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living." One sentence, but think of the vivid pictures a good play director could make from it. There is no need to pause on the misery of the young debauchee. "And he would fain have filled his belly with husks that the swine did eat; and no man gave unto him," tells more than pages of descriptive suffering and longing. There is a deep suggestion in the words, "and when he came to himself." We can only guess the depths to which he had sunk and of the passions that had torn him before he felt he could ' humble himself before the family he had quitted in such defiant sureness. After this the story quickens. It moves with the eager tempo of the returning prodigal. The character of the father is clear now, and there is a third person, the elder brother who has spent his time in hard work, sober living, and carrying out his father's wishes. What of him when he saw his father bestow un- - earned gifts on the recreant? We understand his emotions, too. Most of the story tellers of the world would deprive themselves of some much-loved thing if they could end a story with such consummate art as this one. Two or three lines and it is over. The ending is definite, but there are a great many things over which the reader may puzzle. The "Raising of Lazarus' is a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE story almost as beautiful in art, but it will never have the same appeal as the "Prodigal Son." Death touches us all, but we have long schooled ourselves to its finality. It is the emotions of the sinner, the loving parent, the baffled good son that touch us most. The Talmud, from which the last two stories are taken, is full of moral tales. These two are both brief enough to be read in class, and the last one, "The Jewish Mother," is fit to take its place beside the famous mother stories of the world. References The Bible; Modern Reader's Bible; Moulton's Bible Stories; Old Testament Stories, The Literary Study of the Bible; Purinton's Literature of the Old Testament; The Book of Tobit is also another beautiful story from the Apocrypha. Questions Why do not the Jews have a national literature of modern times? What is an epic? An idyl?" Justify the Book of Ruth's being called an epic-idyl. Locate the lands of Moab and Judah. What racial characteristics are exhibited in the story of Ruth? Why did Naomi choose Moabite wives for her sons? What differences can you see between the characters of Ruth and Orpha?. Why is Naomi a great personality? Why did Naomi wish Ruth to marry Boaz? Could he, have refused? In what ways did he show himself to be very generous? What are the Apocrypha and the 'Talmud? What racial characteristics and GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 573 customs do you find in the story of Susanna? In what other stories have you heard of Daniel's fearlessness? What law of Moses is referred to in this story? What comparison does Jesus use in his parable of the Prodigal Son? Comment on the statement that the parables have greatly influenced mankind to accept the teachings of Jesus. To which of these six stories can you best apply the tests of the short story? Name ways in which this Biblical literature has been used. Name some modern Jewish writers. LESSON 4 Social Service (4th Week in December) PERSONALITY Stupy: THE Psy-cHOLOGY OF CONVERSATION, PUBLIC SPEAKING AND WRITING Based on Overstreet's Influencing Human Behavior, pages 71-109 The successful use of one's mother tongue is an art or skill which is largely the result of experience and training. The laws of habit formation apply, in learning to speak or write effectively,. Just as certainly as they apply in other human achievements. Of course it must be admitted that there is no easy formula for the mass production of truly great speakers or writers. But all of us can greatly improve in our methods of influencing the behavior of our associates through the means of language. It is the purpose of this lesson to consider certain very important psychological aspects of the problem.. Assuming that we are in real earnest in trying to profit by this series of lessons we will then not be discouraged by having. Our attention called at once to a great fundamental task that presents a real barrier to impatient souls who must get immediate results in order to be assured that progress is being made. This is the job of improving and enriching our own lives—the enhancement of our personalities. This may be "hard doctrine," but who can gainsay the author of our text when he says, "* * * Tt is the personality back of the writing which gives the writing such power or lack of power as it possesses." Almost in this same vein Henry Suzzallo says, "There can be no cultivation of the power to use English without an adequate development of enriched thought to be expressed. * * * In the last analysis, good English is a matter of self-cultivation." Having recognized the fact, that back of worthwhile communications are always worthwhile personalities we have no doubt renewed our determination to patiently work for self-unfoldment and increased service to humanity. What this implies is well outlined in the Sunday School, "Gospel Doctrine" leaflet for September 7, 1930. Now what other important fundamental is often overlooked by  would-be conversationalists, public speakers, and writers? It is the one thing most stressed by Overstreet in the two chapters of our lesson for this month. It is that the successful speaker or writer must understand and appreciate the probable responses of his listener or reader. To remind ourselves that this is coming to be recognized more and more let us consider two or three brief quotations. Here is the first paragraph from a helpful little book, "The 'Art of Writing English". By Brown and Barnes: "This book is the outgrowth of two convictions. The first of these is that greater emphasis ought to be placed upon the fact that writing is not merely self-expression, but communication; in other words, that composition must be regarded chiefiy as 'a double-ended process' in which the writer is successful only when he has. Produced the desired effect upon his audience. The second is that this communication through writing is an art, and must be studied very much as other arts are studied." This is emphasized again in an interesting and challenging short article by William E. Barton, which appeared in The Outlook for November 11, 1914.. He shows that Theophilus (see Luke 1:1-4) influenced greatly both the style and content of Luke's version of the Gospel, and among other things he goes on to say, "A letter is shaped quite as much by the receiver as the sender. A sermon is preached partly by the preacher and partly by the congregation. * * * "Tt is so with all the great works of art. The painter sees before him a bit of nature which he wishes to interpret through his own temperament. Yes, but interpret to whom? Not till you know that can you fully understand the picture. A poet hears a song in the depths of his soul, and he sings it, and maybe sells it. Yes, but for whom? We are not wholly yet a race of potboilers. To somebody, for somebody, the world does all its fine things in art and ethics." Consider also how this same fundamental point is implied in all of the following suggestions for estimating the character of a given audience as a basis for successful public speaking: "Is this audience composed of young, or old people, or those of mixed ages? Are the members of the group highly educated or poorly educated when considered as a whole? What social class and which sex is chiefly represented? What purpose and attitude dominates the group; what mental set is predominant on this occasion? Are these auditors of the type that will passively accept whatever is presented, or can they be led to participate actively in the presentation and take an enthusiastic interest in it? May the group be characterized as negative, contrary, or even antagonistic; -or may it be more fittingly considered as friendly and anticipatory?" (See West and Skinner—page 501). Supplementary References Driggs—The Art of Teaching— pp. 88-104, Palmer—Self-Cultivation in English—pp. 1-41. 'West and Skinner—Psychology for Religious and Social W orkers— pp. 499-515. See also accessible high school texts in Rhetoric and Composition and Public Speaking. Problems for Discussion 1. The writer once read of a solitary prisoner confined in a cell of a GUIDE LESSONS FOR. DECEMBER Siberian dungeon. He had an un-' quenchable desire to communicate with someone. After many attempts he finally got a response from an adjacent cell by means of taps on the thick prison wall. Later simple words and phrases were spelled to each other by this means by the two lonely prisoners. Still later the prisoners invented a checker-boardsquare arrangement for the taps on the wall which greatly lessened the required number of taps and thus facilitated communication. These prisoners who had previously never seen or heard of each other in this way became well acquainted and fast friends. Give reasons for or against considering this story far-fetched. Relate some striking or convincing incident to show how basic in our lives is the desire to communicate. 2. Comment on this quotation from Palmer: "So mutually dependent are we that on our swift and full communication with one another is staked the success of almost every scheme we form. * * * The persuasive and explanatory tongue is, therefore, one of the chief levers of life." 3. (a) Why is the enhancement of personality related vitally to problems of the effective use of language? (b) Just what does Overstreet mean when he says again and again that effective speaking and writing are "essentially psychological" enterprises? 4. Someone has said that an important. Requisite of a good conversationalist is to be a good listener. Consider this carefully also making observations. Report your conclusions in the form of several considerations in support of this statement. 5. (a) Suggest a plan for developing a pleasing well-modulated speaking voice. (b) Give several convincing illustrations to show how 575 we tend to become more lip-lazy and tongue-lazy than we should be. 6. Suggest a good plan for increasing our vocabularies. Spend at least five minutes today with a good dictionary and report some of the things you learned; e. G. The correct way to pronounce: "interesting," "experifnent," "genealogy," "data," "often," etc., and the distinction in meaning between such related expressions as "irony" and "sarcasm" or "to teach" and "to train." It is well for us to avoid the use of cheap unauthoritative dictionaries if better ones are accessible. 7. Aman experienced in the writing game once pleaded with the members of a college audience to individually resolve to express in careful and beautiful English some worthy thought or observation each day. This daily written effort should represent one's very best even though the waste basket were half filled with discarded sheets before one were reasonably successful, To what extent do you think this would be good medicine for the members of our group? Why not start a sort of diary—not a monotonous ~ commonplace narrative but a collection of brief expressions of our better selves, characterized "not only by distinction of idea but distinction of phrasing?' Some opportunities along this line might also be furnished by our efforts at letter-writing. 8. To what extent should we strive for spontaneous efficiency in our letter-writing—avoiding the accumulation of discarded sheets in the waste basket? Palmer says, "Accuracy and dash, the combination of the two, must be our difficult aim; and we must not rest satisfied so long as either dwells with us alone." 9. (a) Summarize the most practical suggestions you obtained from 576 studying the two chapters from Overstreet. (b) Discuss the psychological standards proposed in the text for judging the success of our speaking and writing efforts. 10. Comment on this from Palmer: "He and he alone, is a well-educated person who wes his language with power and beauty. The supreme and ultimate product of civilization it has been well said, is two or three persons, talking together in a room." 11. (a) To what extent do you believe that worthy literary effort among Latter-day Saints is suffering from (1) too much favorable comment in the press when locally RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE produced books are reviewed? (2) too severe and too frequent negative criticism? (Do our magazines and newspapers ever present reviews of a negative character?) (b) To what extent do you believe that public speakers are hampered seriously by insincere though not consciously unfriendly flattering comments made to them by listeners or by the lack of opportunity to get honest responses from friends and others who may have been present? 12. Explain what you think Cicero meant when he said, "He is the eloquent man who can treat subjects of an humble nature with delicacy, lofty things impressively, and moderate things temperately."