[Vol44 | January 1957 | Sequence: 29 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting | Author: Jacobs]
[Visiting Teacher Messages: "Ye Shall Have Hope Through the Atonement of Christ" Leone O. Jacobs]
Visiting  QJeacher    1 1  iessages — 
Book  of  Mormon  Gems  of  Truth 
Lesson  A7-"kr\6  What  Is  It  That  Ye  Shall  Hope  For?     Behold  I  Say  Unto 
You  That  Ye  Shall  Have  Hope  Through  the  Atonement  of  Christ  and 
the  Power  of  His  Resurrection,  to  Be  Raised   Unto  Life  Eternal, 
and  This  Because  of  Your  Faith  in  Him  According  to  the 
Promise"  (Moroni  7:41). 
Leone  O.  Jacobs 
For  Tuesday,  April  2,  1957 
Objective:  To  show  that  faith  in  Jesus  Christ  is  the  key  to  eternal  life. 
ALL  of  our  lives  we  should  be 
working  toward  one  goal— that 
of  achieving  eternal  life.  The  hope 
we  have  of  achieving  that  goal  helps 
us  to  meet  the  problems  and  ad- 
versities that  beset  us  in  mortality. 
That  hope  gives  comfort  in  our  sor- 
rows and  courage  to  continue  on- 
ward without  ever  losing  sight  of 
the  destination. 
As  has  been  said,  ''faith  is  the 
moving  cause  of  all  action"  (Lec- 
tures on  Faithy  page  8),  and  faith 
in  Christ  is  the  power  by  which  we 
may  reach  this  goal  of  eternal  life. 
Mormon  says,  'Tor  no  man  can  be 
saved,  according  to  the  words  of 
Christ,  save  they  shall  have  faith 
in  his  name  .  .  ."  (Moroni  7:38). 
Faith  is  a  mighty  force,  and  its 
possibilities  are  unlimited.  Faith 
requires  a  positive  attitude  of  mind. 
Doubt  and  fear  flee  from  its  pres- 
ence. When  wc  comply  with  the 
necessary  requirements,  we  can  gain 
perfect  faith  in  the  atonement  of 
Christ  and  in  his  resurrection. 
Many  passages  of  scripture  point 
out  the  great  power  of  faith. 
"...  If  ye  have  faith  as  a  grain  of 
mustard  seed  .  .  .  nothing  shall  be 
impossible  unto  you."  (Mt.  17:20). 
"...  According  to  your  faith  be 
it  unto  you"  (Mt.  9-29). 
"...  Daughter,  thy  faith  hath  made 
thee  whole  .  .  ."  (Mark  5:34),  said 
Christ  to  the  woman  who  touched 
the  hem  of  his  garment.  "I  can 
do  all  things  through  Christ  which 
strengthen  me"  (Phillipians  4:13). 
"And  Christ  hath  said:  If  ye  will 
have  faith  in  me  ye  shall  have 
power  to  do  whatsoever  thing  is  ex- 
pedient in  me"  (Moroni  7:33). 
It  is  by  faith  that  one  accepts  the 
words  of  Christ.  It  is  through  faith 
in  Christ  ".  .  .  that  the  Holy  Ghost 
may  have  place  .  .  ."  (Moroni  7:32) 
in  our  hearts.  Thus,  if  faith  in 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  principle  that 
can  bring  us  eternal  life,  let  us  read 
and  study  and  work  to  attain  it. 
.  .  .  From  a  child  thou  hast  known  the  holy  scriptures,  which  are  able  to  make 
thee  wise  unto  salvation  through  faith  which  is  in  Christ  Jesus,  All  scripture  is  given 
by  inspiration  of  God,  and  is  profitable  for  doctrine,  for  reproof,  for  correction,  for  in- 
struction in  righteousness:  That  the  man  of  God  may  be  perfect  .  .  .  unto  all  good 
works   (II  Timothy  3:15-16). 
Page  5^