[Vol44 | January 1957 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Jungle | Author: Murbarger]
(To be continued) Jungle Pilgrimage Gnto the Past Nell Murbarger N our traveling to the west coast I of Mexico, bound for San Blas, on the Pacific Ocean, we dropped nearly 4,000 feet in elevation, and the cool air of the mountains was succeeded by the warm moistness of the coastal jungle. Groves of waving bananas and papayas now occupied every pocketsized clearing on the steep hillsides, and small plots of sugar cane lay like green scatter rugs on the floor of the valley. Along either side of our road rose giant coquita palms, their trunks so closely spaced that we seemed to be traveling through a narrow and endless corridor of smooth, gray columns. Beyond the jungle we entered upon a wide salt marsh cut by calm estuaries that wound back from the sea through dense thickets of mangroves. On the down-dropping branches of the mangroves lived matted clusters of white oysters, and busy multitudes of small glossy crabs, spotted and_ striped like agates. White egrets, rose-tinted flamingos, and tall herons stalked silently through the shallows, like judges on parade; and twice we saw the dark surface of the water part, momentarily, to reveal the long, gray-green snouts of cruising alligators. After leaving the jungle and the salt marsh and crossing a_ wide, clear river, where men fished with hand-knotted nets and women knelt on the banks and washed their garments as in the times of Ruth and Page 26 Rachel, our road dropped down to the Pacific Ocean and meandered to its end in the old town of San Blas — the Mecca of our jungle pilgrimage into the past. Drawing to a halt in the shade of the plaza, we ranged inquiring eyes over this place where, in centuries gone, had been drafted so many of the blueprints of Western American history. But if we had supposed that San Blas would be different in appearance from any other of the many Mexican villages we had visited, we were destined to disillusionment. San Blas was no different. Here was the same old stone church; the same tiny, square shops looking out on the plaza; the same complement of tired, thin-bodied old men; the same tinkle of lonely music. In the cobble-paved streets and the well-swept yards, played the usual bevies of fat, brown babies; the usual gray burros and dogs and long-legged roosters drowsed in the shade of adobe huts and walls; and the same patient, Madonna-faced women were performing their housewifely duties in the same gentle fashion. S we ranged our eyes over the quiet, commonplace scenes of this commonplace village, we found it impossible to imagine that here had been the first shipping port on the western shores of both North and South America. Equally difficult to accept was the fact that this small town had once bustled with more JUNGLE PILGRIMAGE INTO THE PAST than 30, cco inhabitants, and had ranked as one of the most important cities of the New World! If San Blas chooses to drowse in the sun, that should be her privilege, for San Blas is a very old lady! Founded in 1537—less than twentyfive years after Balboa's discovery of the Pacific Ocean—these same cobbled streets were echoing to the wheels and hooves of commerce 27 when naked savages still roamed the site where New York would one day rise, and the fathers of the Pilgrims were yet unborn. In the middle of the sixteenth century, with Sir Francis Drake and other British privateers preying on ships of the Spanish Main, San Blas had become a haven for great treasure galleons outward-bound from the Orient with cargoes of gold and Charles K. Crawford ABANDONED CUSTOMS HOUSE, SAN BLAS, NAYARIT This flat-topped building, with interlocking arches, was a busy place in the days when San Blas was one of the main ports on Mexico's west coast. 28 Nell Murbarger RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 PALM-THATCHED HUTS AT THE JUNGLE'S EDGE, NAYARIT, MEXICO (Outskirts of San Blas) silver, and silks and carved jade worth a king's ransom. With the Panama Canal still more than 300 years in the future, it was necessary that the long sea voyage from Manila to Spain be made by way of Cape Horn. Not only was this a time-consuming course, but with pirates and privateers menacing the shipping lanes of the world, the long route added greatly to the potential hazard of every voyage. To combat these factors — particularly the danger of piracy — the Oriental treasure galleons were unloaded at San Blas and their rich cargoes repacked on burro back to be freighted overland, under heavy military guard, to Vera Cruz. Here the booty was placed on other waiting ships for the remainder of its 13,000- mile journey to Spain. In connection with this monumental portage, San Blas had become the western terminus of one of the most incredible treasure roads in the history of the world. UILT nearly 400 years ago, this great portageway had extended from the Pacific coast to Nayarit, all the way across Mexico, to Vera Cruz, on the Atlantic — a distance of more than 600 miles, over high mountain ranges and through deep valleys and wide jungles. Nor was this continent-spanning road a mere trail packed down by the sandaled JUNGLE PILGRIMAGE INTO THE PAST feet of men and the hooves of animals. It was a true highway. Every foot of its 600 mile length was paved with cobblestones, fitted together in a tight mosaic; and every foot of that cobble-paved way was flanked on either side by stou

t stone fences! San Blas later became headquarters of the Spanish explorer Gasper de Portola; and on March 16, 1768 —after the town had been already prospering mightily for some 230 years — the Franciscan priest, Fray Junipero Serra, had sailed out of San Blas harbor aboard a 300-ton vessel built in one of the several shipyards then doing business in the town. The vessel was La Purisima, and Father Serra's destination was Alta 29 California where he would subsequently establish his famous chain of missions — now the Golden State's oldest and most famous antiquities built by white men. During this same period, San Blas had been site of an important foundry for the manufacture of church bells, and many of the original bells used in the California missions had been cast here. But Time was not good to San Blas. 'The day of the pirate ended, the treasure road was abandoned; other shipping ports became more favored, the harbor silted full. And, finally, this place where thousands of men had lived and _ prospered, declined in vigor until only a few hundred souls remain. (Phantoms Bessie I. Peterson The warmth of firelight is not warm alone— It casts a spell in soft and friendly tone. Cheerfully the clean wood crackles its delight Glad to be the fuel of fire. And builds a phantom city, turrets blazing bright, Ever changing, ever moving, quivering with light. But suddenly the hungry flames, eager for their prey, Consume the golden spires and towers And crumble them away. And so it is with dreams— Fair is the hope that builds our castles high, But, left untended, they flicker out and die, Be Honest with Yourself reat ITlen "Pre y / GREAT and wise men and women of all the ages have sought and received help through prayer and have found an unfailing source of strength. Washington at Valley Forge — Lincoln before Gettysburg — Eisenhower on D Day — Joseph Smith in the Sacred Grove — Jesus at Gethsemane and at Golgotha — all these have prayed!