[Vol44 | January 1957 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Award | Author: Contest]
Note: For biographical sketches of the award winners in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest, see page 45. Page 12 Award Winners Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest THE Relief Society general board is pleased to announce the award winners in the Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest, which was announced in the May 1956 issue of the Magazine, and which closed August 15, 1956. The first prize of fifty dollars is awarded to Sylvia Probst Young, Midvale, Utah, for her — story "Strength for the Way." 'The second prize of forty dollars is awarded to Edith Larson, Manton, Michigan, for her story ""Mother's Shoes." The third prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Vera H. Mayhew, Berkeley, California, for her story "The Slow Hurry." Mrs. Young is a first-time winner in the Relief Society Short Story Contest, although she has received two awards in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Mrs. Larson was awarded third prize in last year's story contest. Mrs. Mayhew is a winner in the story contest for the second time. The Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the Relief Society general board in 1941, as a feature of the Relief Society centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1942. The contest is open only to Latterday Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication by a periodical of recognized merit. The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1957. 'I'wentyfive stories were entered in the contest for 1956. The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction. 'he general board feels that the response to this opportunity continues to increase the literary quality of The Relief Society Magazine, and will aid the women of the Church in the development of their gifts in creative writing. Prize-winning stories are the property of the Relief Society general board, and may not be used for publication by others except on written permission from the general board. 'The general board also reserves the right to publish any of the stories submitted, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received the first prize for two consecutive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. The general board congratulates the prize-winning contestants, and expresses appreciation to all those who submitted stories. Sincere gratitude is extended to the judges for their discernment and skill in selecting the prize-winning. Stories. The general board also acknowledges, with appreciation, the work of the short story committee in supervising the contest. Page 13 Sirst PrizeWinning Story Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Strength for the Way Sylvia Probst Young Jim, Anne Hadfield shpped out of bed and stole from the tent into the night stillness. Over the bluffs moonlight lay like a mantle, but not a breeze was stirring and the air was heavy and almost as hot as at midday. With a weary little sigh, she sat down on a nearby log. Council Bluffs—wagons and tents; the lowing of cattle; the smoke of campfires —a camp of Israel. How long it had been since she had known the comfort of her Nauvoo home. It was February when they had left Nauvoo with the first company of saints—February and this was July— only five months. But living outof-doors, knowing cold and hunger, being deprived of all of the easy living she had known in Nauvoo had made her young heart yearn so much to be back there again. Still, with Jim beside her, with his strong, young love to warm and comfort her, she hadn't minded so much the hardships or privations on the way. Jim's courage and fine sense of humor had been like a staff in her hand. But now —now, Jim would not be here. A tear stole down her cheek and she brushed it away. Before her stretched wagons and tents of men—recruits for the United States Army—fathers, husbands, and sons from Mt. Pisgah Page 14 Goin, A so as not to awaken * SYLVIA PROBST YOUNG and Garden Grove, who had come to join with the men from Council Bluffs. 'Tomorrow they would leave for Fort Leavenworth. Less than a month ago Captain James Allen had come to Council Bluffs to see President Young. He had asked for five hundred men to help defend the United States in a war against Mexico. It seemed almost ironical that he should point out the governmental protection offered them when they had been driven from state to state, and had suffered untold persecutions. But President Young, with loyal patriotism, had begged the saints to dis- STRENGTH FOR THE WAY tinguish between the conduct of the states separately and the conduct of the states collectively. 'The nation, he said, was not responsible for their present outcast condition. So patriotism had won because of President Young, and Captain Allen was getting his men. But in Anne's heart, there was a bitter resentment toward the President, and she wondered how he could have seemed so willing to let the men go. Jim had enlisted, of course—and tomorrow he would be gone. She would be quite alone then, with not even a relative near. Here in this wilderness she would bear Jim's child, and he would be far away in the barren country beyond.... She covered her face with her hands and let the warm tears flow. NNE — Anne, darling." It was Jim's voice. She turned to look at her husband. Jim Hadfield, tall and brawny and straight as a pine, was as fine an example of clean, Mormon manhood as the battalion could have. He came to sit beside her, his protective arm around her waist. "Honey, what are you doing out here?'"' His words were full of tender solicitude. "I thought you were asleep, Jim, so I came out here." "I was asleep until I discovered you weren't beside me. Anne, you have to get your rest, dear." "I couldn't sleep — tomorrow you ll be gone." He put a hand under her chin and looked down into her eyes. "But I'm here tonight — right here beside you," he made an effort at speaking lightly. "Jim." 15 "Yes?" "Did you know that Jennie Peters is going with the battalion? She enlisted as a cook. Jim, if I weren't having the baby I could be going, too." He looked at her gravely then. "Anne, are you sorry about the baby?" "You know ['m not." Her tone was fringed with impatience. "I've been as glad about it as you have, but your going makes everything so different." She wanted to add—"I don't see the reason for it, either," but she didn't. She had argued on that before and it only upset Jim. He was convinced that President Young had no alternative. "It's being alone that will be so hard." She tried to keep her voice steady. "Anne." He put his other arm around her and held her close, his voice was husky. "Leaving you will be the hardest thing I've ever done. Pve thought about it constantly. One thing gives me comfort. I say to myself: "'Anne's the kind of girl that can take it with her chin up; she's as good a soldier as [ll ever be. You've already proved that, dear." For a long moment he looked searchingly into her upturned face. "I want you to remember something always — Ill be with you all the way. Across the miles that separate us I'll be asking God to bless and comfort you,' he spoke earnestly, "and my every thought will be with you back here." Anne looked into the dark, serious eyes so close to her own, eyes full of love and tenderness for her. She answered with lips brushing his 16 brow. 'Then gently Jim gathered her in his arms and carried her back into the tent and to bed. In the still darkness he led her to talk about the future when he would be back and meet her and their baby in the promised valley of the mountains; of the home they would have and of the wonderful years before them. His gentleness lifted the load from her heart, and, peacefully as a child, Anne closed her eyes and went to sleep, not knowing how great the weight on her husband's heart. THE following day, July twentieth, was a busy one for the saints at Council Bluffs. Jim Hadfield, as a corporal in the newly formed battalion, met with all the other officers in a private council with President Young. The President gave them a farewell blessing, he counseled them to remember to be clean, virtuous, and prayerful. Prophetically he promised them that they should not be required to shed human blood. In the afternoon there was a farewell ball in honor of the departing men. It was a gay party; to the canto of fiddles and the jingle of bells, young and old danced the Virginia reel and the Copenhagen jig beneath the shelter of a bowery prepared especially for the occasion. Hand in hand, Anne and Jim Hadfield watched the dancers, smiling and gay as the others. No one would have guessed that it was a time of parting for all of these merrymakers. When the sun dipped behind the Sharp skyline of the Omaha hills, the dancing ceased, and a farewell RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 quartette sang a_ parting Goodbyes were said then. Anne and Jim clung to each other for that brief moment. "Tll be praying for you always," he whispered, "take care of yourself —and the baby." Then he kissed her gently and smiled into her shining eyes. She returned as brave a smile as his. "That's my girl, no tears, darling." No tears — she had shed them all the night before, and she had resolved that he would not see her cry today. They took up their line of march then, tramping to the strains of the band with the Stars and Stripes waving above them. Five hundred men marching toward Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, where they would receive their uniforms and supplies. Standing with those who were left behind, Anne watched until her eyes could no longer distinguish anything but a cloud of dust. Then she turned toward her own wagon, the heart within her heavy as stone. "Everyone will be good to you," Jim had said. 'They were. Sister Hansen, who was camped next to them, brought her a dish of beans and a slice of corn bread for her supper., "I told Jim I'd keep care of you," she exclaimed, "and I mean to do so. Peggy could come and sleep here with you, if you like." Anne smiled at this big, motherly neighbor. "I'll be just fine," she said, "just knowing you're close by." But long after the camp had settled down for the night she lay staring into the darkness. Last night Jim had been here with her— tonight she was alone. It was the song.