[Vol44 | January 1957 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Gardner]
[Work Meeting: Beverages Rhea H. Gardner]
58 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JANUARY  1957 
group  of  twelve  called  by  the  Savior 
to  supervise  the  work  of  the  Church 
in  the  meridian  dispensation  among 
the  Nephites. 
Mormon 
Mormon,  the  next  great  character 
whom  we  shall  consider,  gave  his 
name  to  The  Book  of  Mormon.  He 
took  the  plates  from  the  Hill  Shim 
as  he  had  been  instructed  to  do  by 
Ammaron,  who  had  placed  them 
there  about  320  a.d.  Mormon,  as 
we  studied  in  a  previous  lesson  was 
a  great  spiritual  leader  and  a  com- 
mander in  chief  of  Nephite  forces, 
who  witnessed  the  almost  complete 
destruction  of  the  Nephites.  He 
was  also  a  great  scholar,  an  histor- 
ian, who  made  the  set  of  records  on 
which  he  wrote  the  abridgment  of 
the  large  plates  of  Nephi  and  to 
which  he  attached  the  small  plates 
of  Nephi. 
Moroni 
Moroni,  the  son  of  Mormon,  fin- 
ished his  father's  book  in  the  rec- 
ord, abridged  the  twenty-four  gold 
plates  giving  the  history  of  the 
Jaredite    civilization,    and    wrote    a 
book  of  his  own  on  his  father's 
plates,  called  the  Book  of  Moroni. 
Moroni  lived  to  see  the  complete 
destruction  of  the  Nephites  because 
of  wickedness,  and  remained  a  lone 
survivor  of  a  once  righteous,  power- 
ful, and  blessed  people. 
Living  with  these  men  who  mark 
milestones  of  progress  in  the  history 
of  the  two  great  civilizations  that 
flourished  in  America  from  about 
the  time  of  the  Tower  of  Babel  to 
about  421  A.D.,  we  have  come  to 
understand  what  true  greatness  is, 
that  it  is  to  be  found  in  the  love  of 
God  and  service  to  one's  fellow 
men. 
Questions  on  the  Lesson 
1.  Explain  how  a  study  of  a  great  man 
gives  us  an  understanding  of  the  history 
of  a  period. 
2.  What  ^^'ere  the  chief  characteristics 
of  Nephi? 
3.  Show  how  powerful  the  doctrine  of 
repentance  is  by  an  explanation  of  the 
early  life  and  repentance  of  Alma. 
4.  What  kind  of  testimony  concerning 
Jesus  Christ  did  Alma  and  Nephi  have? 
5.  What  was  Mormon's  great  contribu- 
tion to  The  Book  of  Mormon,  besides 
his  own  historical  account? 
6.  What  was  Moroni's  great  contribu- 
tion? 
777 ountai n  0/7 owstorm 
Eva  WiUes  Wangsgaard 
"These  flakes  resembling  velvet  stars,"  she  said, 
"Are  clever  camouflage  to  hide  our  jail." 
I  sat  in  silence,  for  my  thoughts  had  fled. 
Riding  a  snowflake  down  a  time-hid  trail. 
Where  children,  pulled  by  cords  of  school  or  home 
Climbed  drifts  as  high  as  hillocks.  Twinkly  bright 
Were  eyes  that  loved  the  bout  with  brittle  foam 
Which  topped  the  waves  of  frozen  crested  white. 
Now  hills  were  growing  whiter  steadily 
Where  sumac  lately  brewed  a  rich  maroon, 
But  being  snowbound  waked  no  dread  in  me. 
The  years  ran  back  to  meet  my  life's  high-noon. 
The  storm  would  hold  us  prisoners  on  the  hill. 
But  joy  is  always  free  to  roam  at  will.

Visiting  QJeacher    1 1  iessages — 
Book  of  Mormon  Gems  of  Truth 
Lesson  A7-"kr\6  What  Is  It  That  Ye  Shall  Hope  For?     Behold  I  Say  Unto 
You  That  Ye  Shall  Have  Hope  Through  the  Atonement  of  Christ  and 
the  Power  of  His  Resurrection,  to  Be  Raised   Unto  Life  Eternal, 
and  This  Because  of  Your  Faith  in  Him  According  to  the 
Promise"  (Moroni  7:41). 
Leone  O.  Jacobs 
For  Tuesday,  April  2,  1957 
Objective:  To  show  that  faith  in  Jesus  Christ  is  the  key  to  eternal  life. 
ALL  of  our  lives  we  should  be 
working  toward  one  goal— that 
of  achieving  eternal  life.  The  hope 
we  have  of  achieving  that  goal  helps 
us  to  meet  the  problems  and  ad- 
versities that  beset  us  in  mortality. 
That  hope  gives  comfort  in  our  sor- 
rows and  courage  to  continue  on- 
ward without  ever  losing  sight  of 
the  destination. 
As  has  been  said,  ''faith  is  the 
moving  cause  of  all  action"  (Lec- 
tures on  Faithy  page  8),  and  faith 
in  Christ  is  the  power  by  which  we 
may  reach  this  goal  of  eternal  life. 
Mormon  says,  'Tor  no  man  can  be 
saved,  according  to  the  words  of 
Christ,  save  they  shall  have  faith 
in  his  name  .  .  ."  (Moroni  7:38). 
Faith  is  a  mighty  force,  and  its 
possibilities  are  unlimited.  Faith 
requires  a  positive  attitude  of  mind. 
Doubt  and  fear  flee  from  its  pres- 
ence. When  wc  comply  with  the 
necessary  requirements,  we  can  gain 
perfect  faith  in  the  atonement  of 
Christ  and  in  his  resurrection. 
Many  passages  of  scripture  point 
out  the  great  power  of  faith. 
"...  If  ye  have  faith  as  a  grain  of 
mustard  seed  .  .  .  nothing  shall  be 
impossible  unto  you."  (Mt.  17:20). 
"...  According  to  your  faith  be 
it  unto  you"  (Mt.  9-29). 
"...  Daughter,  thy  faith  hath  made 
thee  whole  .  .  ."  (Mark  5:34),  said 
Christ  to  the  woman  who  touched 
the  hem  of  his  garment.  "I  can 
do  all  things  through  Christ  which 
strengthen  me"  (Phillipians  4:13). 
"And  Christ  hath  said:  If  ye  will 
have  faith  in  me  ye  shall  have 
power  to  do  whatsoever  thing  is  ex- 
pedient in  me"  (Moroni  7:33). 
It  is  by  faith  that  one  accepts  the 
words  of  Christ.  It  is  through  faith 
in  Christ  ".  .  .  that  the  Holy  Ghost 
may  have  place  .  .  ."  (Moroni  7:32) 
in  our  hearts.  Thus,  if  faith  in 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  principle  that 
can  bring  us  eternal  life,  let  us  read 
and  study  and  work  to  attain  it. 
.  .  .  From  a  child  thou  hast  known  the  holy  scriptures,  which  are  able  to  make 
thee  wise  unto  salvation  through  faith  which  is  in  Christ  Jesus,  All  scripture  is  given 
by  inspiration  of  God,  and  is  profitable  for  doctrine,  for  reproof,  for  correction,  for  in- 
struction in  righteousness:  That  the  man  of  God  may  be  perfect  .  .  .  unto  all  good 
works   (II  Timothy  3:15-16). 
Page  5^

V(/orR    1 1  ieetifig — Food  Preparation  and  S 
ervice 
(A  Course  Recommended  for  Use  by  Wards  and  Branches  at  Work  Meeting) 
Lesson  7— Beverages 
Rhea  H.  Gardner 
For  Tuesday,  April  9,  1957 
CINCE  some  kind  of  beverage  is 
a  part  of  every  meal,  it  is  im- 
portant that  it  be  chosen  with  the 
same  care  as  all  other  parts  of  the 
menu. 
For  many,  good  cold  water  or  milk 
is  sufficient  as  a  meal  beverage. 
Since  milk  is  high  in  food  value,  it 
is  more  than  a  thirst  quencher. 
Milk  drinks  are  a  nourishing  food 
for  people  of  all  ages;  in  fact,  milk 
is  about  the  first  and  last  food  and 
beverage  man  enjoys. 
There  is  a  wide  variety  of  milk 
drinks.  Eggnogs  are  especially  good. 
They  are  more  appealing  to  the  eye 
and  to  the  taste  when  the  egg  whites 
and  yolks  are  beaten  separately. 
Chocolate  and  cocoa  are  both 
made  from  the  cocoa  bean.  Their 
difference  is  in  the  fat  content. 
Chocolate  is  about  fifty  per  cent  fat, 
while  cocoa  contains  only  about 
twenty-two  per  cent  fat.  Conse- 
quently, chocolate  is  much  richer. 
Cocoa  is  considered  better  adapted 
for  children  or  people  with  diges- 
tions that  are  easily  upset. 
When  cocoa  or  chocolate  is  used 
frequently  for  beverages,  it  is  con- 
venient and  time-saving  to  make  a 
quantity  of  cocoa  paste  or  sirup 
which  can  be  mixed  quickly  with 
the  milk  as  needed. 
Lemonade  and  orangeade  are 
favorites  in  the  increasingly  long  list 
of  fruit  beverages  we  may  choose 
Page  60 
from  today.  Use  only  enough  sugar 
to  accent  the  natural  fruit  flavor. 
Sugar  can  be  added  directly  to  the 
juice  and  water  or  it  may  be  made 
into  a  sirup,  cooled,  then  added. 
The  latter  method  is  recommended. 
The  precooked  sirup  seems  to  im- 
prove the  drinking  quality  of  the 
beverage  to  which  it  is  added;  it 
also  saves  time  and  saves  sugar,  since 
it  is  not  uncommon  to  find  undis- 
solved sugar  in  the  bottom  of  pitch- 
ers when  sugar  is  added  directly  to 
the  drink. 
Most  fruit  punch  requires  the  use 
of  some  citrus  juices,  especially  lem- 
on juice.  The  practice  of  taking 
lemons  out  of  the  refrigerator,  cut- 
ting them  in  half,  squeezing  them, 
and  throwing  the  rest  away  is  waste- 
ful. If  you  will  let  the  lemons  stand 
in  warm  water  before  squeezing 
them,  you  will  be  able  to  extract 
much  more  juice.  Then,  if  you  will 
boil  the  rind  with  the  sugar  sirup, 
the  rind  of  two  lemons  for  each  cup 
of  sugar,  you  will  have  a  drink  that 
is  much  richer  in  flavor. 
Fruit  punch  need  not  be  expen- 
sive, if  you  plan  ahead  for  it. 
Rhubarb  juice  makes  a  delicious 
base  for  a  fruit  drink.  Prepare  it  in 
much  the  same  way  as  you  do 
tomatoes  for  juicing.  Pour  the  hot, 
strained,  slightly  sweetened  juice  in- 
to fruit  jars  and  process  in  a  hot 
water  bath.  (See  instruction  books 
for  processing  time  in  your  area.)

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
61 
In  areas  where  apricots  are  in 
abundance,  one  is  often  able  to  get 
small  ones  for  a  nominal  cost.  Apri- 
cot puree  makes  a  delicious  base  for 
fruit  drinks.  Juice  from  currants, 
pie  cherries,  certain  kinds  of  wild 
berries,  grapes,  some  plums,  and 
cranberry  juice  are  also  delicious. 
Watch  the  market  for  specials  on 
canned  fruit  juices  so  you  will 
always  have  a  variety  on  hand. 
For  very  clear  ice  cubes  for  your 
fruit  drinks,  use  boiled  water.  Here 
are  a  few  suggestions  for  fancy  ice 
cubes:  (i)  Add  a  little  green  color- 
ing to  the  water  before  freezing  it 
into  cubes  for  an  especially  cool 
looking  efifect.  Avoid  overuse  of 
the  coloring.  (2)  Freeze  curls  of 
lemon  or  orange  peel,  maraschino 
cherries  with  stems  intact,  or  sprigs 
of  mint  in  the  ice  cubes.  (3)  Freeze 
leftover  drinks  in  the  ice  cube  trays 
to  serve  in  fruit  beverages. 
The  appearance  of  a  fruit  drink 
on  a  hot  day  cannot  be  overesti- 
mated. Cool  drinks  will  look 
especially  refreshing  if  you  frost  the 
rims  of  the  glasses.  Put  some  lemon 
juice  into  a  saucer  about  one-fourth 
inch  deep.  Sift  some  powdered 
sugar  into  a  plate  about  one-fourth 
inch  deep.  Stand  each  glass,  in- 
verted, in  the  lemon  juice  about  a 
minute.  Lift  it  out  of  the  juice 
then  let  it  stand,  inverted,  in  the 
powdered  sugar  for  a  minute.  Now 
lift  carefully  out  of  the  sugar  so  as 
not  to  jar  the  sugar  coating  which 
has  formed  on  the  rim.  Stand  right 
side  up  in  the  refrigerator  until  set. 
Then  carefully  fill  with  your  drink. 
Note:  "Recipes  for  Beverages,"  by  Rhea  H.  Gardner,  page  46,  in  this  issue  of 
the  Magazine.
