[Vol44 | January 1957 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Strength | Author: Young]
[Strength for the Way — First Prize Story Sylvia Probst Young]

STRENGTH FOR THE WAY most heart-tearing experience she had ever had, being without Jim. It had only been hours since he had gone; it seemed an eternity. The western movement would have to stop now, without the men they could not go on. Here they would build quarters for the winter, and here their child would be born —hers and Jim's—with no kin to give her comfort. How much must they all bear for this new belief? Her thoughts turned to Nauvoo then; ever since Jim had enlisted Nauvoo had been in her semiconscious mind. Back in Nauvoo there were those who still worshiped God—those who had stayed with Emma Smith—her own father and Aunt Carrie. If she could be in Nauvoo when the baby came. A sudden idea made her sit upright in her bed — Nauvoo — if she could go back to Nauvoo. Surely between now and November there would be wagons returning to help the sick and needy to evacuate. She had heard some talk of it. 'They could have her team and wagon for the privilege of a ride back. She was strong and healthy and young; she could easily make that trip. In Nauvoo, her baby could be born in a house with a doctor and Aunt Carrie by her side. In Nauvoo, she would not be alone or afraid. When Jim was discharged from the army he could come back for her. He would understand and he would not disapprove—he loved her too much for that. The idea grew and took possession of her. She would go to the President himself. She would tell him why she wanted to go back. How could he refuse her wishes, 17 wasn't he directly responsible for Jim's absence? With a little smile, Anne closed her eyes and dreamed of Nauvoo and the happiness she had known there. She awoke before dawn the next morning, the idea still paramount in her thoughts. All morning she toyed with it. The one disturbing thing was Jim; she was not at all sure that he would be pleased. But Jim was gone, she argued with herself, and she had to make her own decisions. ESOLUTELY she dressed in her best brown calico dress and her pink sunbonnet, and wearing high courage, in the early afternoon, she went to see President Young. But her heart was beating rapidly, she had never talked to the President before. On the various occasions when she had heard him speak he seemed quite stern, and his manner brisk. Would he be displeased to have her take up some of his time? But the voice that greeted her was gentle and friendly. Anne looked with surprise into the rugged face of the man who was leader of the entire company. He didn't seem surprised to see her; it was almost as if he had been expecting her visit. Inside of his tent he found a chair for her. "I don't believe I've had the pleasure of meeting you before," he said, holding out his hand. "Tm Anne Hadfield,' she answered. "My husband is Corporal James Hadfield of your battalion." A look of gentle compassion softened the stern lines of his face. "Those men," he said, "are the 18 cream of Israel. There are no braver men on earth, but not one of them is any more courageous or valiant than the woman he has left behind. "Sister Hadfield," the President's face grew grave, "it was not easy for me to send your corporal away from you, I had no other course. We have known great trials, perhaps none greater than this. But, my dear sister, remember — we are never alone. The God of heaven is guiding us as he has always done. He is forever mindful of you and of me — of all of us. He is at the helm. With trust in him you can endure whatever trials may come your way. God will provide for you here the same as he did in Nauvoo. "Back in Nauvoo there are men and women who have chosen not to follow — the way is too hard, the sacrifices too great. But it is God's chosen course for us, and, if we remain true to that conviction, we shall reap blessings that they who stay behind shall never know." As he spoke his face reflected wisdom and calm assurance, and the truth of his every word sank deep into Anne Hadfield's heart. It seemed he could read her very thoughts, and she felt strangely uncomfortable in his presence. BRIGHAM Young, a prophet of God—there was something majestic about him. And suddenly she remembered the conference in Nauvoo. It was as if she were seeing him now as she had seen him then, when the mantle of Joseph had fallen upon him; when he had spoken in the voice of the martyred one. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JANUARY 1957 She could never forget the spirit of that conference — how Jim's hand had gripped her own. She could feel that same spirit now, in the presence of this man. In that moment she was ashamed — ashamed of the weakness that had brought her here. Jim had spoken of her courage, what would he think of her now? A tear stole down her cheek — a tear of remorse, but a tear of relief, too. She raised her head, courage had returned; faith had been rekindled; doubt had gone, more quickly than it had come. It was almost as if the President had pronounced a special blessing upon her head. She knew, as she had known at the conference in Nauvoo, that the way was here with this chosen prophet of God; there could be no turning back. But now she didn't want to turn back, for her strength had returned, and a warm, comforting peace filled her soul. The President's face relaxed then, and he smiled down at her. "Sister Hadfield, I didn't mean to give you a sermon. Now tell me how can I help you?" Anne looked at him with shining eyes. "I needed a little strength for the way," she answered, "and you have given me that. Thank you, President Young." She held out her hand and he took it in his big, roughened one. "God bless you," he said. With her head held high, Anne went out of the tent, her eyes looking across the prairie to the future that lay beyond. Note: See page 45 for a biographical sketch of Sylvia Probst Young. Willard Luce MONUMENT VALLEY, ON THE UTAH-ARIZONA BORDER In the heart of the Navajo Indian Reservation She ITlonuments Hazel Loomis I saw you spread your velvet robe. I saw the curtain drawn As night came down. I closed my eyes, And even dreaming knew, when come the dawn, Like loyal friends, You would be there Unchanged, Unmoved. Page 19 She INexicam AT ission Preston R. Nibley T the October conference of the Church, held in Salt Lake City in 1875, Elders Daniel W. Jones, Anthony W. Ivins, Ammon M. Tenney, James Z. Stewart, Helaman Pratt, Robert H. Smith, and Wiley C. Jones were called to open a mission for the Church in the Republic of Mexico. As they were requested by President Brigham Young to explore Arizona and look for possible places for settlement by the Mormon people on their way to their field of labor, they traveled on horseback, taking their food, Harold M. Lambert Studios bedding, and camp equipment on pack animals. After enduring many hardships while making their way across Arizona and New Mexico, they arrived in FE] Paso, 'Texas, during the first week of January 1876, and crossed the Rio Grande River, where they began their labors. 'They worked their way southward as far as the city of Chihuahua, held meetings and distributed their literature.