[Vol44 | January 1957 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Loomis]
[POETRY The Monuments Hazel Loomis]
League  of  American  Pen  Women,  Utah  State  Poetry  Society,  and  other  professional 
organizations. 
Frances  C.  Yost,  Bancroft,  Idaho,  is  a  frequent  contributor  to  The  ReUef  Society 
Magazine.  Her  poem  "Christmascope"  marks  her  first  appearance  as  a  winner  in  the 
Eliza  R.  Snow  Poem  Contest.  Mrs.  Yost  is  the  wife  of  Glenn  F.  Yost,  a  rancher,  and 
is  the  mother  of  four  children.  "My  family  and  my  Church  come  first,"  says  Mrs. 
Yost,  but  she  finds  time  for  various  writing  activities.  She  is  hometown  correspondent 
for  three  daily  papers,  she  assisted  in  the  compilation  of  a  ward  Book  of  Remembrance, 
and  is  the  author  of  two  books  of  poetry:  Brim  With  Joy  and  While  Orchids  Bloom. 
In  1954  Mrs.  Yost  received  the  award  "Most  Successful  Homemaker"  in  the  State  of 
Idaho. 
Joanne  B.  Rose,  West  Jordan,  Utah,  introduces  herself  to  readers  of  the  Magazine: 
"I  am  twenty-seven  years  old,  have  a  high  school  education,  and  have  studied  the 
technicalities  of  writing  through  library  books.  I  have  written  numerous  personal 
sketches  for  our  ward  paper  and  am  correspondent  for  a  local  newspaper.  In  1955,  one 
of  my  poems  received  honorable  mention  in  the  Utah  State  Poetry  Society  contest  in 
the  amateur  division.  My  husband,  Gene,  and  I  have  three  wonderful  children — 
eight,  six,  and  four,  two  boys  and  a  girl.  Someday  I  hope  to  continue  my  schooling  and 
learn  more  of  putting  into  words  the  wonders  of  everyday  living  with  which  the  Lord 
has  surrounded  us.     I  love  literature  in  all  forms." 
Svh'ia  Probst  Young,  Midvale  Utah,  was  awarded  the  second  prize  in  the  Eliza  R. 
Snow  Poem  Contest  in  1953.  Her  story  "Strength  for  the  \\'ay"  marks  her  first  ap- 
pearance as  an  award  winner  in  the  Relief  Society  Short  Story  Contest.  Her  husband, 
Reid  W.  Young,  is  a  great-grandson  of  William  Wesley  Willis,  a  lieutenant  in  the 
Mormon  Battalion,  and  this  relationship,  says  Mrs,  Young,  has  given  her  a  particular 
interest  in  the  battalion.  "Being  a  bishop's  wife,  a  mother,  and  a  schoolteacher,  leaves 
me  little  time  for  anvthing  else,"  writes  Mrs.  Young,  "but  whenever  possible  I  write 
because  I  \o\e  to.  I  ha\e  written  for  all  the  Church  magazines  and  for  some  other 
publications,  and  my  poems  ha\'e  appeared  in  several  anthologies.  I  love  the  Church, 
and  especially  the  Relief  Society,  where  I  am  class  leader  for  social  science  and  litera- 
ture.   I  am  the  mother  of  four  sons." 
Page  45

LKecipes  for  ioeverages 
Rhea  H.  Gardner 
What  is  enjoyed  more  than  an  ice-cold  fruit  drink  on  a  hot  afternoon,  or  a  flavor- 
ful hot  beverage  on  a  cold  winter  night? 
Since  lemon  juice  is  part  of  most  fruit  drinks,  let's  start  out  with  good  old-fashioned, 
and  most  refreshing  lemonade. 
Lemonade  Drink 
5  c.  water  i  c.  sugar 
rinds  of  2  lemons  cut  in  pieces  1   c.  lemon  juice 
Mix  sugar,  1  c.  water,  and  lemon  shells.  Stir  until  sugar  is  dissolved.  Boil  very 
gently  about  7  minutes.  Remove  lemon  shells  and  cool.  Add  lemon  juice  and  4  c. 
of  water. 
Limeade:     Substitute  lime  for  lemon  juice.     Add  14  c.  lemon  juice. 
Orangeade:  Substitute  2  c.  orange  juice  for  lemon  juice  in  lemonade  recipe  and 
add   !4   c.  lemon  juice. 
Grapeade:  Make  sirup  of  Yi  c.  sugar  and  2  c.  water.  Let  cool,  then  add: 
1   c.  grape  juice  1  e.  orange  juice 
Vi    c.  lemon  juice 
Just  before  serving,  add  some  ginger  ale  if  desired. 
Pineapple  Mint  Julep 
6  sprigs  fresh  mint  %    c.  sugar 
%    c.  lemon  juice  3  c.  pineapple  juice 
3  c.  ginger  ale 
Wash  mint  leaves.  Bruise  with  spoon.  Gover  with  sugar.  Add  lemon  juice  and 
let  stand  15  minutes.  Add  pineapple  juice.  Pour  over  ice  in  pitcher  or  tall  glasses. 
Add  ginger  ale.     Garnish  with  sprigs  of  mint. 
Spiced  Pineapple  Punch 
Gombine  1  c.  sugar,  lYi  c.  water,  2  sticks  cinnamon,  and  8  whole  cloves  in  sauce- 
pan.    Boil  gently  for  3  to  5  minutes.     Strain  and  cool. 
Add: 
4  c.  unsweetened  pineapple  juice  Yi   c.  lemon  juice 
1  c.  orange  juice 
Pour  over  ice  and  serve. 
Spiced  Rhubarb  Gooler 
2  lbs.  rhubarb,  cut  in  small  pieces  3  c.  water 
4  whole  cloves  1  inch  stick  cinnamon 
1   c.  sugar  sirup  {Vs  c.  sugar  to  Ys  tsp.  mace 
to  %  c.  water)  2  tbsp.  lemon  juice 
Y2    c.  orange  juice  1  pint  ginger  ale 
Put  rhubarb,  water,  and  spices  in  saucepan.  Simmer  until  rhubarb  is  tender. 
Strain.  Add  cooled  sugar  sirup  and  fruit  juices.  Ghill.  Pour  over  the  ice.  Add 
ginger  ale. 
Page  46

RECIPES  FOR  BEVERAGES  47 
Old  English  Hot  Spiced  Cider 
Vz    tsp.  whole  allspice  i   qt.  cider 
1  2-inch  stick  of  cinnamon  %   c.  brown  sugar 
6  whole  cloves  grated  nutmeg 
Tie  spices  in  cheesecloth  bag.  Heat  eider  and  brown  sugar  together.  Add  spice 
bag  and  let  simmer  about  lo  minutes.     Remove  bag.     Serve  with  dash  of  nutmeg. 
Spiced  Grapefruit  Juice 
6  e.  canned  grapefruit  juice  6  tbsp.  sugar 
4  tbsp.  honey  12  whole  cloves 
6  sticks  cinnamon 
Simmer  3  minutes.     Strain  and  serve  hot  or  cold  with  a  dash  of  nutmeg. 
Cranberry  Fruit  Punch 
2  qts.  fresh  cranberries  1   tbsp.  grated  lemon  peel 
1   dozen  whole  cloves                                          2  c.  sugar 
1   tbsp.  grated  orange  peel  !4    c.  lemon  juice 
8  c.  apple  juice  or  apple  eider  2  trays  ice 
4  c.  water 
Cook  together  cranberries  and  water.  When  berries  are  tender,  remove  from  heat 
and  force  berries  through  sieve.  While  juice  is  hot,  add  cloves,  sugar,  orange  and 
lemon  peel.  Cool  and  add  lemon  juice,  apple  juice,  and  ice.  This  is  delicious  served 
with  holiday  fruit  cake. 
Punch  —  Plus 
1  qt,  vanilla  ice  cream  1  qt,  ginger  ale 
1  qt,  pineapple  juice  1  qt.  sherbet,  pineapple,  orange,  or  lime 
Mix  with  beater  and  serve. 
Milk  and  eggs,  two  of  nature's  most  nearly  perfect  foods,  combine  into  delicious, 
nutritious,  and  appetizing  beverages.  Many  chocolate  drinks  may  be  made  from  home- 
made chocolate  and  cocoa  sirups.  These  sirups  are  easy  to  make  and  keep  well  in  the 
refrigerator. 
Chocolate  or  Cocoa  Sirup 
1  c,  cocoa  or  K   tsp.  salt 
4  squares  unsweetened  chocolate  2  c.  cold  water 
cut  in  pieces  3  tbsp.  vanilla 
2  c.  sugar 
Mix  all  except  vanilla.  Cook  over  low  heat  until  thickened  and  smooth,  about  five 
minutes.  Cool  slightly.  Add  vanilla.  Pour  in  jar.  Keep  in  refrigerator.  Add  2  tbsp. 
chocolate  sirup  for  each  cup  of  scalded  milk  to  make  a  chocolate  drink.  Stir  until  sirup 
is  dissolved, 
Eggnog 
Beat  whites  of  2  eggs  until  stiff.     Beat  yolks,   1   tbsp.  sugar,    Vi    tsp.  vanilla,  and 
2  c.  milk  until  well  blended.     Fold  in  egg  whites.     Pour  into  glasses.     Sprinkle  nutmeg 
on  top. 
Chocolate  Eggnog:  To  the  above  add  2  tbsp.  chocolate  sirup.    Omit  sugar. 
Fruit  Eggnog:  To  the  above  add  3  tbsp,  orange,  strawberry,  raspberry,  cherry,  or 
grape  juice  or  1  mashed  banana  just  before  adding  egg  whites.