A Prince of Ur. Homespun. CHAPTER I (Continued). As if disdaining to remind his kinsman that he had answered but one portion of his inquiry, the Prince gave signal, and the cavalcade dismounted in the courtyard, and at once there was a medley of confusion as the babble of tongues was unloosed by the absence of their masters. As the Prince turned in the glowing sunlight to gaze about him, his eyes caught the gleam of a bronze figure squatting on a stone pedestal at the entrance to the arsenal. With quick but unhurried steps he gained the spot and gazed in unmixed astonishment upon the huge figure of an Assyrian god, his great shape carved with infinite art, his feet squarely set, his massive arms clasping the lion of the royal Assyrian insignia, the tightly-curled hair and long beard surmounted with the crown of authority. It was indeed the image of Nimrod, rudely lined, and clad in the armor of the Chaldean vesture. "Bring the Lord Mardan to me," commanded Abram; and as that graceful youth salaamed before him, he asked, tensely: "What is the meaning of this graven image of the king of the earth?" "Nothing more and naught less than it seems. It is a graceful compliment from the Captain of the Kings' hosts to the King himself." "Abram looked keenly in the glowing sunlight at the face of Mardan; but so frank and candid a glance of good-will shone from the prominent blue eye that the Prince was again disarmed. With another salute, the kinsmen parted, and with an imperceptible shrug of his elegant shoulders, towards the retreating back of the Prince, Mardan sped away. At that moment the temple bells in the far eastern portion of the city rang out shrilly and musically. Instantly, the inner gates of the palace were thrown wide and from the gardens there streamed a mass of worshipful attendants, officials, and slaves, who bowed as one person first to the great bronze statute of Nimrod, or Merodach, in the center of the courtyard, then rising, they began the morning hymn of praise to the Lord of the Silver Light, and the crowd divided into twelve orderly portions to prostrate themselves at the feet of the twelve gods within the garden enclosure, which now burst upon the sight of Abram with sudden force, as the garden gates were flung wide. He saw and he understood. The choirs sang or chanted: 
 . "Lord of the alabaster house, the lord duly returning, The awarder of kingdoms, thy crescent mighty horned, Who raises himself by humbling the proud — The doom-dealer, shining with rounded orb — " With each phrase, the multitude swayed, rose and bowed again, rearing excited faces and tossing arms to the gods before which they bowed in abject worship. Stunned, horrified, beyond immediate speech, the Prince heard the distant booming of the temple bells, and over his spirit there floated the indescribable incense of swinging censors as a procession of robed priests, with Mardan marching gravely at their head, filled the foreground of this strange picture with a weird, sensuous pagan beauty. There was no time for argument. With one bound, the Prince was towering above them all as he swung up to the throne platform in the inner porch. "Cease this mumming. Depart to your homes, men of Terah, priests after the order of Melchizedek. I, even I, the Prince of Ur, and ruler of this city — in Terah's absence — I command you to cease. Where are my chiefs; seize these priests, these leaders of this pagan rite, bring them to me for instant sentence. I, even I, have returned to the house of my fathers." Instantly, there was a wild hubbub of cries, clashing of swords, curses, the screams of women, and the hoarse commands of the shepherd soldiery as they took under arrest the priestly leaders. Verily, it was time that Abram should return to the home of his father. In the confusion, Mardan escaped. (To he continued.) A COMBINATION GAS AND FIRELESS COOKER. The convenience and economy of the fireless cooker has stimulated inventors to combine in one range, the apparatus for first cooking the food, and heating a retaining compartment, and then, by heavily insulated walls, conserving the heat until the operation is completed. A gas range has been patented which unites these functions in an ingenious manner. One compartment is arranged with gas burners above and below, the heat from which is directed upon thick walls whose outer covering is asbestos or similar non-conducting material. While these burners are turned on, the ventilators are open, and the products of combustion pass out and into the chimney. When the gas is turned off, the ventilators are automatically closed, retaining in the chamber, which now becomes a fireless cooker, all the heat of the previous combustion. — Popular Mechanics Magazine.