"Everywhere I have had the privilege of visiting, the sisters have seemed thankful and happy for the visit, and seem willing to do all that we ask of them. They appreciate very much being organized into Societies and enjoy having something definite to work to. Since October 15, Relief Societies have been organized in Roseland, St. Paul, Minneapolis, Grand Rapids, Springfield, Evansville, Indianapolis, and Peoria, and the organizations at Milwaukee, Winnipeg and Bloomington have been visited and the Bloomington society reorganized. "Every Society that I have visited is doing good work — just as good as any at home, I believe. They are all studying, at least one afternoon or evening each week, and in most places one afternoon a month is devoted either to sewing, fancy work or, in the summer months, to taking care of fruit, pickles, etc. "I want to impress upon my sisters at home the great blessings that our Father has given to us. This General Board of the Relief Society has done nobly and well in giving us the beautiful outline contained in the Bulletin. The Bulletin carried with it the true spirit of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ. It has opened my mind to many beautiful truths. It has brought peace, comfort and joy to dozens of honest-hearted sisters of the Northern States Mission, and it will be a blessing in the homes of all who will read it with a prayerful heart and follow the inspiration received therefrom. I know that the sisters of the General Board have been called of God to this work. May we give them our earnest and honest support in this great work. May our Father bless them and give them power to teach the truths of the Gospel of Jesus Christ." "Mary Smith Ellsworth, "Chicago, Ill., Dec. 15, 1914." CEMENT CASKS KEEP WATER COOL WITHOUT ICE. In semiarid regions natives supply themselves with cool water through the use of porous earthen urns which are placed where they are shielded from the sun's rays and at the same time exposed to the action of the breezes. The moisture penetrating through the jars and accumulating on the exterior is evaporated rapidly by the hot winds, and the water within cooled. An adaptation of the same principle is a concrete water tank which may be used conveniently in places where ice is difficult to procure. Because ordinary concrete is porous it serves in this capacity just the same as if it were earthenware. Such a container is particularly suited for use on long golf courses and in harvest fields.