		CORRESPONDENCE.

		BLOOMINGTON, Sept. 11th, 1877.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	Although feeling very busy and not hav-
ing much time, still I am going to steal
time enough to scribble a few words to you
aud the many readers of the EXPONENT.
You have often asked me to write a descrip-
tive letter of the scenery and views in and
around this Bear Lake Country. I have
hesitated to do so, but only on account of
my inability. However I shall make a
bold attempt, and beg you to remember my
verdancy and inexperience, and therefore
excuse all failures.
	The first time I came here, we went by
train to Franklin, and came "over the moun-
tain." We traveled north and northeast
until arriving at the mountain, when we
commenced to go east and southeast. As
we passed along from Franklin the eye was
feasted with rolling, sweeping hills rising
one after and above another in romantic
and picturesque fashion, their sides covered
with wavy, crispy grass; and in the valleys
beautiful rich meadows swaying and danc-
ing, with the breeze singing and sighing in
the truant leaves. The hills gradually rise

[Column 2]
and rise, until behold, they are mountains,
and you witness that novelty in this coun-
try, a canon of soft sloping mountains,
their outlines gracefully curving and droop-
ing against the clear autumn sky lik[---]
[---] Hebe. This con-
tinues till at last you are at the foot of the
mountain dugway, which is two or three
miles in length. Up you start on a slow
walk, but as you gradually ascend you wish
yourself a bird with power to fly up this
long tedious road. Plodding wearily along,
my companion called me to halt, and turn
around and gaze on the scene below. With
a cry of delight I fastened my rapt eyes
on the grand panorama stretched below me,
and at once felt amply repaid for all weari-
ness. Oh, the loveliness of nature's pavil-
ions! Aunt Em, could you have been 
[---] me then, your delight like
mine would have been too deep for words.
Mountain after mountain, hill after hill,
vale after vale stetched out in endless beau-
ty; while here and there silver streams
rushed down through canons and valleys.
The whole country is one grand sweeping
mass of smooth mountains and hills. And
way off in the distance a chain of high,
frowning mountains stand like sentinels
over a group of rambling youths and maid-
ens. At last we reach the top and begin to
descend; now the whole character of the
scenery is changed. The road trails along
through canons that bring vividly to the
mind stories and legends of the ancient
Norse country, with spicy, piny woods and
wild, rugged mountains towering far above
you, and clear to the tops just one black
mass of pine forests. The woody smell is
fragrant and pleasant. Through the canon
you twist and turn, now pulling up steep
hills, now tearing down on the other side.
I was forcibly reminded of a little poem I
had read somewhere, about the wind, when
first allowed to roam the earth, it tried
every species of tree to find a home, but
was dissatisfied until it finally reached the
beautifnl pine. Here it resolved to make
its abode. The sweet, wailing sound issu-
ing from these trees is soothing and at
times mournful. While riding along, anon
gazing at one lone tree, then peering into
the dark recesses of impenetrable forests,
the thought came up in my mind, ah, well,
if the oak with its sturdy, burly shape is
king of the forest, is not the tall, stately,
beautiful pine its royal consort? At a sud-
den turn in the road we beheld a powerful
black bear, lazily wending its way across
the road. We had ample time to mark its
different points, ere his bearship was lost to
view in the surrounding trees. You do
not leave the canon until about four miles
from Liberty, which is the first settlement
you reach in Bear Lake Valley. Now don't
get "turned round" as I did and fancy you
came in at the south end of the valley and
are travelling north, for the case is exactly
reversed. As you proceed through the
valley, you notice its rolling character in
this part. Up and down, up and down,
without any noticeable cessation. As you
pass through Paris, your eye is painfully
aware of the fact that there are no trees.
Nothing to relieve the monotony of mud
roofs and log houses. Paris seems to be a 
thriving little place, and some few brick
houses are rearing their modest heads.
Along the road you occasionally see spark-
ling, livid streams of water, dashing, splash-
ing on their way, their banks generally
overgrown with willows. This place is just
about two miles from Paris. The principal
thought I remember of being in my mind
on arriving here was, how Dame Nature

[Column 3]
ever contrived to get so many endless hills
in so small a space.
			Yours as ever,
							S[---]


