WOMAN'S POSITION IN UTAH.

HERE in these valleys, hemmed in from the
discordant elements of the outside world by the
stupendous, mountains that tower to such sub-
lime heights, are a race of women, who surpass
in their heroism, in their endurance, and in
conscious independence of character any, we
believe, in the known world. The union of
heart and soul which characterizes them as a
class; is one of the most strengthening influ-
encess which could be brought to bear in mak-
ing them heroic in the truest sense of the term.
Women vote in Utah! Yes they do, conscien-
tiously and independently, for they have been
taught the principles of action which lead
them into legitimate channels of true indepen-
dence. Mormonism begins at the very founda-
tion of the superstructure, and teaches how to
build a solid basis on which to erect the finest
edifice of character the human mind is capaple
of rearing.
	The world at large do not understand how to
lay the bed-rock which will make the fabric
they build so elaborately, strong and lasting.
They build up splendid theories, they sound
well, they please the fancy and they pass in
the minds of many for the true and genuine
article; but to the eye and heart able to discern
error, they are only a myth, a phantom, soon to
pass away and be replaced by something new
and more startling, or attractive. Some of
them they revise and patch up and remodel,
but after all, they are only added to, and built
on, and made more likely to fall by the heavy
material put on to ornament, which being too
heavy a strain upon the first foundation makes
it crumble into a heap of ruins all the sooner.
But when truth is the foundation, and every
rock used in the building is composed of true
principle, and joined together with honesty
and integrity, and ornamented with true chari-
ty "after the similitude of a palace," such a
structure would be likely to stand some perilous
storms, and withstand the buffetings of the
tempest, especially when God is the founder
and builder thereof. The women here have a
voice through the press, which gives them a
channel of expression and adds much to their
strength as a class, and enables them to let each
other and the world know what is being done
in helping to prepare for a wider field of useful-
ness, and to hold with a firmer hand their posi-
tion as citizens.
The women of the world wonder how Woman's
Suffrage was so easily obtained in this Territory.
They cannot comprehend that God was in it.
If the women of Utah realized their privileges
they would know they were the most favored
of all their sex. They have the noblest incen-
tives to action, the broadest scope in which to
labor, and, if they are wise, they will hold the
ballot sacred as the gift of God to them and use
it judiciously.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
