FAMILY.

	I hasten to drop you a few lines
before leaving for Leeds this afternoon.
Saturday has come again, and with it comes
our general mail day, which gives us plenty
to busy ourselves with until evening.
	We can only imperfectly surmise the
anxiety and grief into which all the Saints
are plunged by the sudden and, to us, most
unexpected demise of President Young.
We had not so much as heard a syllable of
his sickness, and having watched his labors	
through the settlements, as published in
the "News," we supposed he was enjoying
remarkable health and vigor. It is true
that on the night of the 21st and 22d of
August, which seems to be about the time
he was taken with his last illness, Brother
Pratt had a remarkable dream about the
President, which he told us on the morning
of the 22d. He saw him (Pres. Young)
riding in his carriage, when suddenly his 
horses took a fright and dashed down a
steep bank into a deep river, or stream of
water, rushed through the stream and up
the abrupt and seemingly impassable de-
clivity on the other side. We all decided,
if the dream indicated anything, it meant
some sudden difficulty or trouble through
which the President would have to pass.
For several days previous to getting the
sad news, I had an impression that some
great event was about to happen.
	Day before yesterday, Aug. 30th, we re-
ceived the melancholy intelligence of the 
death of President Young at one minute
past four p. m. the day previous. Before
night (Aug. 30,) all the papers of this coun-
try had the account of his death in them;
some of them with comments, but mostly
containing the simple telegraphic news of
his death.
	Two years ago to-day the same sad news
of the death of President George A. Smith
flashed over the wires to the nations of the
earth; and on the day after his death I re-
ceived the news in the same manner as it 
now came of the demise of President
Young. We were all struck, I may say
stunned with amazement and grief at the
most unexpected, sad news. Yet there is
consolation in the reflection that, unlike his
predecessor, the Prophet Joseph Smith, he
died not by violence in the midst of ene-
mies, but in peace in the midst of his
family, and in the midst of his friends.
	And now may the spirit of peace and un-
broken union brood over the councils of the
Priesthood and upon the assemblies of all
Israel. The spirit of peace abides with us,
for we know the Lord God Omnipotent
reigneth, and He is the master-builder of
His own House. May God bless you all, is 
my earnest prayer.


MRS. Elizabeth Thompson has mrde an
appeal to the thinking people of America,
by offering prizes for the best article on the
"Labor Question" in its widest scope. They
were to be sent to the Library Table: New
York, before the first of October,


MISS ROSE Eytinge will appear in the
most prominent New England lecture
courses the coming season.


