	NOTES ON "THE WOMEN OF MORMONDON."—
The extracts in the EXPONENT from your
"Women of Mormondom" are "gems of the
first water," diamonds of the genuine lustre.
Its bearing upon the woman question should
recommend it to all who are recognizing that
this is woman's age. That woman must,
therefore, lay the corner-stone of the new civ-
ilization. Women have indeed "sown in
tears," they must reap in gladness. Believe
me yours truly in efforts in the good cause,
		V. BARNHURST.
	Secretary National Suffrage Association,
Philadelphia.
	The book, "Women of Mormondom," came
to hand this afternoon, and to say I am pleased
would not half express my feelings. The first
that attracted my attention on opening the
book was the good [---]
I then glanced over the contents, and there
was so much I wanted to look over that I did
not know what to turn to first; and now feel
as if I had had a visit with many dear friends,
and it was over an hour past my usual supper
time when I lay down my book. I would like
many of my friends to have a copy, and shall
use my influence for them to get one; for I am
satisfied they would feel as I do, that it is three
dollars well spent. Yours truly,
						S. M. DELL.
	Beaver, Sept. 12, 1877.
	I have been perusing with rapt interest and
enthusiasm the pages of the "Women of Mor-
mondom," a copy of which, presented by my
mother to Sister Angie Frink, my amiable
hostess, reached here the same time as your
letter.
	I cannot express my admiration in terms to
equal the extent of my appreciation. I think
Edward Tullidge has carved himself a name
by the inspiration of the Almighty, and writ-
ten it upon the hearts of two hundred thousand
people. His pen was surely an inspired instru-
ment, notwithstanding his present estrange-
ment—merely nominally I believe, and but
temporarily I hope—from the church whose
heroines he has so ably defended and immor-
talized. While reading I shed tears every few
moments either of indignation, pity, or of
pleasure—this was more especially the case
when reading the chapter—for I have not pe-
rused it consecutively—giving an account of
my noble grandfather, Heber C. Kimball, tak-
ing leave of his family on leaving to "open the
door of salvation" in Europe, and the Haun's
Mill horror. My patriotism also swelled high
when reading the speeches of the sisters at the
indignation mass meeting on the Cullom Bill,
etc. Sisters Snow, Young, King and East
surely were imbued with the "spirit of '76" I
have never read anything that moved me so
strongly before.
	The anecdotes and incidents were mostly all
new to me. I wish you would congratulate
Mr. Tullidge for me on his triumph, for indeed
it is one. He is a noble writer, and his style
reminds one, or that is me at least, of a cross
between Victor Hugo and Parley P. Pratt, if
you can agree with my idea. Both of these
are great favorites of your humble servant, and
in my own mind I am paying Mr. T. a compli-
ment, which, however, I unhesitatingly de-
clare him to be fully entitled to. Of course
my meagre ability as a judge must be consid-
ered, but I give my opinion for what it is
worth.	O. F. WHITNEY.
	Elyria, Ohio, Aug, 28, 1877.
	STORING GRAIN BY WOMEN.—We desire to
call the attention of the women of Utah who
are interested in the storing of grain, and espe-
cially all the Societies who have made efforts

[Column 3]

in that direction, to this important subject,
now that the grain is cheap, and the season for
securing products of all kinds for safe-keeping
for the winter is at hand. We are all of us as
yet comparatively unacquainted with the de-
tails of the work we have undertaken, and it
seems to us to be the duty of every woman in-
terested in the welfare of Zion, to inform her-
self in regard to this matter, and seek by all
the means within her reach to render assist-
ance; and that such measures should be taken
as will be of mutual benefit in this enterprise,
and will warrant the desired success. We
think it would be advisable for each Society to
make a full, but concise and comprehensive re-
port of all that has been done during the pres-
ent year in the storing of grain, building gran-
eries, storerooms, or bins, and what plans have
been made for future operarions in that direc-
[---] that the great events
that are about to transpire, will as a natural
consequence result in fearful horrors and famine
is one of the most to be dreaded of all. Inas-
much as Relief Societies are for benevolent pur
poses, this seems to be one of the legitimate
labors of that institutions. Women are full of
sympathy; they shrink from the sight of suf-
fering, and are ever generous and prompt in
relieving it whenever it is in their power to
do so; therefore, inasmuch as God has been so
merciful as to reveal through his servant Brig-
ham, our late lamented and beloved leader, the
Word of the Lord concerning the Storing of
Grain, and to give to the sisters this noble mis-
sion, let each and every one seek, by effort and
influence to carry out his counsel.
	What more noble mission was ever given to
women than that of blessing, comforting, and
ministering to the wants of their fellow crea-
tures? This enterprise of being prepared to ad-
minister relief in a time of need, is something
we should all feel is not only of the most im-
portant character, but one of the most honor-
able positions that woman has ever been called
to officiate in. And if we can secure grain by
our own industry and economy, and carefully
and wisely preserve it until future emergencies
require its prudent disbursement, how much
more satisfied we will be with out exertions,"
than if we waste and squander our means and
our time, and throw away opportunities that
would not only bless us and our children, but
be a source of blessing to all within the limit
of our sphere of usefulness. We trust the sis-
ters will follow out the suggestions given and
be ready to report at the end of the year from
the time of the organization.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
	President Central Grain Committee.
S. L. City, Sep. 29, 1877.


