NOTES AND NEWS.
MISS MIDDLE Morgan is the stock report-
er of the New York Times.

 GAIL HAMILTON has written a series of 
letters on the civil service reform.

 BELOCCA, THE Russian prima donna, has
given $5,000 for the relief of the sick and
wounded Russian soldiers.

 THE UNIVERSITY of Pennsylvania has
decided to open its doors to women stu-
dents. This will be another great move in
doing justice to women in educational ad-
vantages.  Young women of capabilities
should improve this opportunlty of stand-
ing side by side in art and science with 
men.

 SOME PROMINENT leading women in 
Chicago, have published a few facts bear-
ing upon the subject of woman’s life mis-
sion which contain some very potent truths.
It would be well for all women everywhere,
to read them, but we have not now space
for many of them.  The call is made pre-
paratory to holding a State Woman's Con-
gress which will commence its session Oct.
4, and continue two days with three ses-
sions daily.  The meetings will be held in
Clark Street Methodist Church, Chicago.
Papers will be read upon the different sub- 
jects, written purposely for the occasion.
Each paper will be limited to twenty min-
utes, and are to be submitted to a commit- 
tee on papers and topics, for approval.
Those who write are requested to send their
papers by the 1st of October, to Mrs. Oliver
Willard Evanston, Chairman, or Dr. Sarah.
H. Stevenson, Secretary; No. 125 State St
Chicago.
 THE LATE Minister of France whose loss
the French are now mourning was a most
extraordinary man.  The Republican party
can but regret his death just at this partlcu-
lar time, when it seems apparent from the
movements of Mac Mahon and his associates
that some sudden and sinister stroke of
policy is meditated.  With the aid of Thiers
and Gnmbetta they might have been out-
witted.  The last speech of M. Thiers in
public was at St. Germain, when he express-
ed himself clearly in this emphatic declar-
ation "the Republic is the only form of
Government for France," and that he had
no doubt of its triumph.  Louis Adolph
Thiers was born April 16, 1797, at Mar-
sailles. He died Sept. 3, 1877 at St. Ger-
main.  His career from his boyhood marks
him as a great man. At twenty-six years
of age he published his first volume "His-
tory of the French Revolution.” After the
revolution of 1830 he held various official
posts, and was finally elected deputy of 
Aix, and soon distinguished himself by
his financial ability and oratory.  The
French people whenever he appeared among
them, testified their enthusiasm and love
in the strongest manner.  They proudly
designated him as the "Old-man-eloquent."


MRS. Marcia E. D. Wood will lecture on
"American Homes," the coming season.


[Column 1]
