					YOUNG.

	Our President has gone! and there seems to
be a void in nature. The sun's bright rays ap-
pear dim and subdued, for our chief is dead!
Dead to mortal vision. His eloquent tongue is
silent now, that tongue that has so often poured
out blessings to the righteous, and filled the
heart of the sinner with a deadly fear. His
speaking eyes are veiled by lids whose pulse
has stopped their glance so calm and penetrat-
ing, that once sought out the inmost thoughts
of men, and laid bare the secret workings of
their souls, is shrouded by the film of death.
His philanthropic heart is still: it thrills no
more with pity for the suffering, hope for the
erring or love for the obedient. That mighty
brain, which (first inspired by God) was peo-
pled by grand thoughts, is cold, inactive now.
Earth could no longer hold him; the weak


barriers of flesh and blood were powerless to
detain the vigorous captive longer. Ay, death,
thou mayst claim the husk, the shell, but ah!
thou canst not dim that spark of heavenly fire
contained within that vital flame thou canst
not quench forever!
	His mind, no longer trammeled by the clay
of earth, has now more power to blend the
agencies of good, to benefit the loved ones left
behind. His hand lies inert; that hand, whose
index finger always pointed to the right. But
the nervous vigor of the spiritual hand is un-
impaired, and displays increased activity in
succoring the unfortunate ones who have
died without the gospel. 'Tis true that he has
gone, but every faithful heart knows where-
His course here was ever upward, and death
cannot change the tendency of the noble, as-
piring soul. It can but remove the obstacles
which impeded the spirit's grand development.
The head which [---]
[---] down by the
brutal enmity and persecution of ungodly men,
and which ever stood erect with conscious up-
rightness and integrity, is there surrounded by
a halo of glory, whose brightness can never
more be diminished. The intolerance of spe-
lial legislation, prejudiced and evil-minded
judges, and packed juries can no more oppress
his susceptible heart.
	The poignancy of mortal anguish has culmi-
nated in his death. And thou alone, O Lord,
hast power to soothe the acuteness of our grief,
and mitigate the pangs of our distress. We
invoke thy mercy, Omnipotent God, in this
our general bereavement, and pray Thee to
enable us to emulate those virtues which he
possessed in such an eminent degree: and may
the sage counsels with which he so often as-
sailed our stubbornness, be, by his death, deep-
ly engraven on our hearts, that neither time
nor temptation may obliterate them any more
forever; and may the unwavering constancy
and devotedness of his whole life seal upon ou
memories his incomparable worth, and upon
our convictions a certainty of future glory, as a
reward for present faithfulness. We implore
Thee, merciful Father, to shed the enriching
dews of Thy divine meekness upon our way-
ward and intractable hearts, that we may al-
ways, during our lives, and at last, by our
peaceful death, testify of the sublime and per-
fect satisfaction gained in Thy service. And
may our words and works, like those of Thy
servant—and our departed brother, be a psalm
of richest harmony—a monument of everlast-
ing greatness.
	I. H. M.
Morgan City, Sept 4, 1877.


