		BLOOMINGTON, IDAHO, Sept. 13.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought I would like to send a short re-
port of the doings of our Relief Society. I
think we are progressing a little; we num-
ber fifty-nine members, and I think they
are all trying to do the best they can. We
have not done much yet about storing grain,
although the young ladies of the Retrench-
ment Society have been gleaning several
bushels of wheat. Our President is mak-
ing an effort to get a piece of homemade
cloth wove with the yarn the sisters have
donated, as the sisters wish to do something
to help build the Logan Temple, where we
hope to receive our endowments and bless-
ings; We have been favored with a visit
from Mrs. M. I. Horne and Mrs. Phebe
Woodruff from Salt Lake City, and Mrs.
Nora Spencer from Paris, and rejoiced in
their excellent teachings; also from Bishop
W. Holmes and Brothers James H. Hart,
P. Greenholch and J. Haddock. We feel
to mourn the loss of our beloved President
and Prophet, Brigham Young, and pray
that this event may be sanctified both to
his bereaved family and also to the Church,
that the purposes of God may be fulfilled,
and His work spread over the earth.
	At our last Annual Meeting, which was
held June 1st, our accounts showed that in
the past two years there had been collected
in the Society $200. 42; disbursed to the
poor $100. 21; five shares in Co-op stores
$50; on hand 300 lbs flour, 3 quilts, 30 skeins
yarn.
	Since our last report two of our sisters
have been called from us by death. Mrs.
Emily Payne, born November 5, 1851, died
December 28, 1876, leaving a baby boy but
a few days old, also three other children, a
husband and other relatives and friends to
mourn her loss. She was a faithful Latter-
day Saint, respected and beloved by all
who knew her.
	Mrs. Annie Nelson died May 9, 1877, in
her 37th year, leaving an infant seven
days old; also seven other children, a hus-
band and other relatives who sincerely
mourn for her. She was the former secre-
tary of the Bloomington Relief Society.
She attended most ably to the fulfillment
of her duties as Secretary, wife, mother
and friend; was a true Latter-day Saint
and was beloved for her numerous good
qualities.
	MRS. S. GREENHOLCH, President,
	ELIZABETH LONG,	} Secretaries.
