	YOUNG.

	I parted with President Brigham Young
and a few brethren who were with him, in
Manti, Sanpete County, in July last; since
which time I have been engaged attending
visiting and organizing the southern set-
tlements; and was at the time of his death,
on a visit to our settlements in south-east-
ern Nevada. Through the blessings of God
I have been enabled to return, in company
with Elder Woodruff who has just address-
ed us, in time to be present on this memor-
able occasion.
	I shall say it is a pleasure to meet with
the Saints of God on this occasion! It
might seem paradoxical to use such an ex-
pression, but nevertheless it is true. The
pleasure is not in parting with our honored,
tried and beloved President; but it is in

[Column 2]
meeting with this vast body of Latter-day
Saints and the thousands of Elders of Is-
rael that are assembled on this occasion,
who have come together to testify to one
another, to the world of mankind, and to
the heavens, the love, the esteem. the con-
fidence and the enduring ties which bind
him to us. We meet not merely to condole
with the beloved family and relatives of
the deceased; but we meet to condole with
each other, and to publicly testify of the
faith we have in Christ Jesus and in the
work that we and our President are engag-
ed in, in which he led the van, directing 
our energies and as the mouthpiece of God
imparting words of wisdom, counsel and
guidance unto this people.
	I first became acquainted with Brother
Brigham in the month of July, 1835. It
has been my high privilege to be associat-
ed with him in the labors of the gospel
from that time up to the present, to share
the benefits of his counsels and labors and
to co-operate with him in this great work
in which he has been engaged. It would
be but a small thing to add my testimony,
but which I know would be the testimony
of thousands before me, as well as thou-
sands who are not with us to-day, more es-
pecially of those who have been longest
and most intimately acquainted with him;
a testimony we are all able to bear, namely,
the never-failing devotion of his heart to
the building up of the kingdom of God, to
the honoring of the holy priesthood he re-
ceived, and to the carrying out of the coun-
sels of the Lord and all things revealed
through the Prophet Josoph, as well as all
things which manifested themselves to him
from day to day, pointing to the welfare of
Israel; all the day long he has borne the bur-
dens and responsibilities placed upon him,
which he has honored and magnified to
the end. I believe that all Israel will agree
with Elder Woodruff in the expression,
that if the anxiety and prayers of the
Saints could have preserved him longer in
our midst, he would not have passed away.
But from the time I heard of his sickness,
which was less than twenty-four hours
before his death, I was not able to gather
any testimony in my earnest prayers and
supplications that he would tarry with us;
but on the other hand, a deep seated feel-
ing rested upon me that the Lord was
about to call him behind the vail. And
when the news of his death reached me,
the first and most prominent feeling of my
heart was "Thank God that he has had the
privilege of spending his last moments in
quiet and peace, and in the midst of his
friends, and has gone beyond the reach of
his enemies, who now have no power to an-
noy and persecute him." We are permit-
ted to mourn his loss in peace and quiet.
Peace be upon Israel! Peace be upon his
beloved family! Peace be upon all his be-
loved  brethren and laborers in Zion and
throughout the world. Peace be upon the
multitudes of Israel who this day assemble
throughout the land to testify their faith,
their respect and their love for him, the
congregations of Saints who are at this
hour in every part of the land in the act of
worshipping, and mingling their feelings,
their voices and testimony with ours for
the same common purpose.!
	President Brigham Young needs no mon-
ument to perpetuate his name and character
more than that which he himself by his
own works and virtues has reared in the
hearts of his people. And his testimony
is such as will be in force to all the world,
and his fame in connection with that of the
Prophet Joseph Smith is known among all

[Column 3]
nations, kindreds, tongues and people.
This latter-day work is not the work of a
few brief years in mortality; our priesthood
is everlasting, "without beginning of days
or end of years," the labors of which reach
forward through time and into eternity and
continue forever. Truly did the Lord
speak to John the Revelator when banished
for the Gospel's sake to the Isle of Patmos,
"Blessed are the dead which die in the
Lord, from henceforth: Yea, saith the Spirit
that they may rest from their labors; and
their works do follow them." From the labors
of the flesh do they rest, but their works
continue. Rest is a change, but not a ces-
sation from labor. And the works of every
faithful Elder in Israel after finishing his
labors in the flesh, will go forward into the
future ages of eternity. Brother Brigham
having done a great, a glorious work in
the flesh, now joins his labors with those
of the spirit world and is welcomed back
again from this mission of mortality.
receives the joyous welcome of the Father
and the Son and the greetings of the apos-
tles and prophets, of Joseph and his breth-
ren who have gone before him, all wel-
coming him back again from earth, he
joins with them in the more extensive la-
bors of the Priesthood, the redemption of
the dead and their preparation for the res-
urrection day.
	It is a great joy and comfort to know
that he had the privilege of living to com-
plete the Temple and to see it dedicated,
and that he superintended the setting in or-
der of the priesthood and the ordinances
for the redemption of the dead, as well as
for the exaltation of the living. It was
one of the greatest objects of his life, some-
thing that he greatly desired to see done
before he should pass away. I have often
reflected upon the prayer that I used to
hear offered up by Brother George A.
Smith during his last winter which he
spent with President Young in St. George.
As Trustee-in-Trust he directed the labors
of building the Temple. His frequent
prayer was in substance, that the Lord
would spare President Young to see the
completion of that temple and to set in or-
der the Priesthood therein. While I often
heard him make this prayer, I do not re-
member having heard him make the same
request in his own behalf. Prest. George
A. Smith passed away without this privi-
lege, but his prayer was answered on the
head of his brother Brigham, and all the
Elders of Israel greatly rejoice because he
obtained this privilege, for now all things
pertaining to the ordinances and keys of 
the priesthood in all their minutiae were
set in order according to the revelations of
God. And it will be remembered that af-
ter his return from St. George last spring
on his first greeting his brethren from this
stand some of the most prominent senti-
ments expressed by him, when referring
to his work during the winter, was that he
felt satisfied with his labors; to which I be-
lieve all Israel so far as they were acquaint-
ed with the nature of and could appreciate
those labors, could say Amen. He was
moved upon to direct his brethren, the
Apostles to go to and organize the Stakes
of Zion throughout the Territory, in which
he himself took a prominent part, accord-
ing to the strength of body he possessed.
And the kind, fatherly spirit that charac-
terized his every act during this period of
his life seemed to shine brighter and exert
even a more peaceful influence than at any
time of his life before. His public address-
es, his private utterances, his counsels and
labors during the past Summer, have all
seemed to bespeak that the hour was


drawing near, the time was close at hand
when he should depart. I have watched
him during the entire season that I was
with him, and also during his late labors
in the South in the Temple and from that
time to this 1 have carefully observed
every word that flowed from his lips both
in public and private, everything tending
to make this profound impression upon my
feelings that he was soon to pass behind
the vail; and on receiving word of his last
sickness, the impression forced itself upon
me, he is to depart. I can therefore say,
we mourn not as the world mourn. Was
he our leader? Yes, in one sense, and that
only as we are in the habit of using that
term. For thirty-three years, since the
death of the Prophet Joseph, he has been
our earthly head; and yet he was not our
leader, except in the earthly sense; for the
Lord wrought in him and through him and
by him as our earthly leader.
	And may God grant in his merciful kind-
ness that he will not hide his face from us,
but ever continue to lead us, as a people, to
glory and victory, triumphing over evil,
subduing our passions and repenting fully
of all our sins, our selfishness and pride,
our vanity and folly; and uniting our hearts
as a band of brethren and sisters for the
carrying out of the counsels of the Lord
which we have so often received through
him; and imitate his noble example, and
practise those noble virtues in our lives.
And teach them to our children and child-
ren's children and spread them abroad 
throughout the world, devoting our lives
and energies for the salvation and redemp-
tion of the living and the dead, until we
too shall go hence and meet with Brother
Brigham in the spirit world, to be wel-
comed back from this our earthly mission,
receiving that welcome plaudit, "Well
done thou faithful servant enter into the
joy of thy Lord;" and then when it shall
please God our Father to cause the trump
to sound for the resurrection; that we may
greet each other again with the Lord Jesus
Christ, and the apostles and saints that
have gone before; which we ask in the
name of Jesus Christ. Amen.


