			HOME AFFAIRS.

THE laying of the corner-stones of the Temple
				[---] County Stake took place
in Logan, Sept. 17, at 12 o'clock m. President
John Taylor and others of the Quorum of the
Twelve Apostles, Counselor D. H. Wells, Pres-
idents of Seventies, Bishopric, Salt Lake Stake
of Zion, and other organizations, had gone
thither to be present on that grand occasion.
The local authorities, and those of Weber
Stake, with thousands of people, assembled to
witness the solemn and imposing ceremonies.
We will devote some space to the particulars
in our next issue.

THE Semi-Annual Conference is very near, and
the general feeling seeems to be that it will be
one of the most important [---] in the
history of the Church. Elders Orson Pratt
and Joseph F. Smith arrived at home on the
evening of Sept. 27. No doubt the Conference
will be largely attended, and the teachings of a
nature to inspire the people to renewed dili-
gence in serving God. A spirit of peace and
union prevails throughout the homes and
hearts of the Saints, and the Lord is doubtless
ready to pour out his Spirit in abundance upon
all who are prepared to receive it.

THE laying of the corner-stones for the New
Tabernacle to be erected inside the Temple
wall, near the Old Tabernacle ground, took
place Sept. 28, at 12 o'clock m. There were
present President John Taylor and several of
the Twelve Apostles, Counselor D. H. Wells,
President Angus Cannon and many Seventies,
High Priests and Elders, with thousands of
people. Prayers were offered by Elder George
Q. Cannon and Elder Joseph F. Smith, hymns
were sung, and remarks were made by Presi-
dent John Taylor, who presided at the cere-
mony.

	WE HAD the pleasure of visiting, in compa-
ny with Miss E. R. Snow and Mrs. P. Kimball,
Brighton Ward Relief Society, Sept. 18, on the
occasion of the Annual Meeting of that branch
of the Relief Society. The Society convened at
the residence of the president, Mrs. Mary Ann
Hazon, a comfortable farm cottage, where neat-
ness and order seemed apparent in the sur-
roundings. The meeting was conducted sys-
tematically, and the secretary's report showed
plainly the perseverence under difficulties of
the good sisters of that district. They had a
very praiseworthy report of their proceedings
during the year.

	THE ANNUAL Meeting of the First Ward Re-
trenchment Association was held in the 1st
Ward schoolhouse, Sept. 26. There was a very
full attendance, and the members of the Asso-
ciation had a bountiful dinner prepared for in-
vited guests, at the house of Mrs. Mary W.
Musser. Elder Woodruff of the Quorum of
the Twelve was present; also some other breth-
ren, including the Bishop. Mrs. Sarah M.
Graham, President of the Young Ladies' Asso-
ciation, presided with dignity. After usual
exercises, minutes, &c, Mrs. Zina D. Young,
Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. Zina
Williams, Mrs. E. Thomas, Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. W. East, Mrs. M. B. Young, Mrs. E. S.
Barney and Mrs. Phebe Woodruff each made
a few remarks calculated to inspire those pres-
ent with zeal and earnestness in the sphere of
woman's usefulness in the path that leads to
everlasting life. Miss E. R. Snow made some
statements in regard to the Woman's Commis-
sion House and explained the circumstances
which necessitated the change that had been
made. She also stated to the meeting that it
had seemed to be the wish of President Brig-
ham Young that the young ladies should

[Column 2]
change the name of their organizations from
Retrenchment to Mutual Improvement. Presi-
dent Sarah Graham proposed making the
change suggested, and it was moved, seconded
[---]sly carried.
	Elder W. Woodruff spoke earnestly upon
the great work of Temples and administration
for the living and dead; related some of his ex-
periences and labor in the St. George Temple,
and among the people in that vicinity; also
touched upon many other glorious and inspir-
ing themes. Elder Joseph E. Taylor of the
presidency of this Stake of Zion made some
very concise and pithy remarks upon the work
of women, of mothers in Israel, the laws of
life and health, and other things of equal im-
portance.

	A FEW of the sisters recently visited Grants-
ville, to be present at the Annual Meeting of
the Relief Society, and also to meet with the
Young Ladies' Association. Leaving Salt Lake
City in the Western Railway train at 7 o'clock
a. m., Sept. 13, we had a pleasant ride on the
cars, and were met at the Half Way House by
two of the good sisters of Grantsville with a
span of horses and wagonette, and with a
good team, smooth roads and a skillful driver
we had an agreeable ride, and at Bishop Ed.
ward Hunter's the party of us were warmly
welcomed and partook of a bountiful repast
hospitably served. The Society convened in
the meeting house, a very neat looking, sub-
stantial edifice, finished in good taste, and
filled with happy faces in expectation of a good
time. An organ well played and a well-trained
choir with melodious voices added greatly to
the enjoyment of the meeting. President
Mary Ann Hunter conducted the meeting in a
most happy manner, and the report read by
the secretary, Mrs. M. A. House, showed not
only industry, energy and benevolence but
their ability to manage business affairs system-
atically. After the sisters had spoken upon the
subjects relating to woman's labors in the vine-
yard of the Lord, the many departments of
usefulness which come within her sphere at
home and among the saints in assisting to bear
the burden of establishing the kingdom of
God, President Hunter invited the brethren
present to address the meeting. Bishop Row-
berry, Br. Rydalch, Bishop Hunter and Br.
Reich each made some excellent remarks, en-
couraging the sisters to persevere, and mani-
festing a deep interest in all their labors.
	The next morning, Sept. 14, at ten o'clock a.
m., the Young Ladies' Association met at the
same place. The house was well filled and a
good spirit seemed to pervade the assembly.
The sisters spoke upon the object of these so-
cieties, the necessity of home industries, and
the topics of general interest at the present
time. Grantsville is a flourishing town with
comfortable looking homes: the farms, orchards
and gardens are particularly thriving, and
prosperity seems to have crowned their indus-
try. The visit was altogether an enjoyable
and we sincerely trust a profitable one.

	DR. ROMANIA B. Pratt has returned from
the East. She has received her diploma from
the Woman's Medical College, Philadelphia,
and has fully prepared herself with the neces-
sary instruments and apparatus to commence
the practice of her profession as physician and
surgeon. Her office is now at her residence in
the 12th Ward of this city, on Theatre street,
east of Main Street. Dr. Pratt has spent four
years in studying, and since she graduated
from Philadelphia has been passing some time
at other institutions of the kind, making spe-
cialities of the water-cure and obstetrics. This
lady is expected to give lectures to the medi-


[Column 1]

cal class of ladies in this city. The lectures for
the present will be held as before in this office
every Wednesday at four o'clock p. m. We
sincerely hope the class will be punctual in 
their attendance.
	Wednesday, Sept. 26, Office EXPONENT: Class
met pursuant to adjournment, with a good at-
tendance and several visitors. Prayer by Mrs.
P. Woodruff. Mrs. Zina D. Young made a
few appropriate remarks, and tendered her res-
ignation in favor of Dr. Pratt, who expressed
her thanks for confidence, and trusted she had
been inspired with the desire to disseminate
knolwedge among her sex, &c. A suggestion
was made to re-organize the Medical class, and
in connection to re-organize another to prepare
women for professional nurses.
	Dr. Pratt recommended the study of medical
science to ladies who did not expect to become
professional practictioners, as it would better
fit them to discharge the duties and meet the
responsibilities of motherhood, and those of
family superintendence.
	WE ARE truly gratified in being able to an-
nounce through our columns, that the women
of Utah have not only been earnest and ener-
getic in hearkening to the counsel of President
Young in Storing Grain, but have also carried
out his instructions in regard lo building Gran-
aries in two of the wards in this city. Presi-
dent Sarah M. Kimball informs us that the
Fifteenth Ward Relief Society have recent-
ly completed a fireproof granary, built of rock
with tin roof, brick floor underlaid with con-
crete, double door, inside nicely finished bin,
that may be subdivided as circumstances may
require. The dimensions of the building are
20 feet square, holding capacity about one
thousand bushels. Messrs. Morris and Evans
builders, Total expenses $374. 44.
	This granary is located on Society lot in the
rear of Society building. "Deseret News"
stated that it was situated in the rear of the
ward co-op store; the ward co-op store rent of
the Society.
	We are also pleased to notice that a Society
Seminary has been opened in the 15th Ward,
under the general superintendence of Mrs. S.
M. Kimball; Miss M. Ferguson principal teach-
er; Miss Florence Burton in charge of juvenile
department, and Miss Lizzie Kimball in charge
of needlework department.
	The Relief Society of the 17th Ward com-
pleted a granary in July last. The building is
16 x 18 feet, outside rustic, inside boarded, six
feet high filled in with concrete. It is capa-
ble of holding about twelve hundred bushels
of wheat, is built on a solid rock foundation,
and cost $271. 12. According to President
Young's counsel, the Society began storing
grain last fall. President Marinda Hyde made
a call upon the Ward for this purpose, which
resulted in the donating and purchasing of
one hundred and ten bushels, which will make
a beginning for the granary. Upon President
Mrs. Hyde making a call for the building of a
granary, the ward liberally responded by a do-
nation of $100. The granary is built and
paid for and we have cash still on hand with
which to continue purchasing grain the pres-
ent season. The Society has taken a deep in-
terest in this matter, and liberally responded
to the calls made upon them. The building
being of concrete from the ground up six feet-
is considered by experienced farmers as proof
against mice, as they cannot bore through that
material.
	Our Society is doing well and feeling well,
working steadily for the general interest of the
Ward.
	MRS. M. A. HYDE, President,
	MRS. G. A. ALDER, Secretary.

[Column 2]

