BELOVED SAINTS:

	A time of mourning has fallen upon
Zion, and it is with feelings of profound
sadness that we address this epistle unto
you. Our beloved, brother, guide and
counselor, our prophet, seer and revelator,
President Brigham Young, has been taken
from our midst by death. Surrounded by
his family and friends, and in his own
house and in the city of which, under the
Lord, he was the founder, his spirit peace-
fully passed from this mortal existence in-
to that state of rest prepared for the right-
eous. Though harassed and bitterly per-
secuted, especially of late years, his ene-
mies were not permitted to take his life.
He has not been called by the Lord to die a
martyr's death; yet his entire life has
proved his willingness to endure even that
ordeal, if it had been the good pleasure of
the Lord to require it of him. He has
shrunk from no issue, and has been willing
to risk liberty and life at the call of duty,
even when his friends trembled for his
safety.
	At a ripe old age, in the quiet of his own

[Column 2]

home, he has passed to his rest. This is a 
consolation to us who survive him. Noth-
ing that has occurred to us since we came
to th[---]
the Saints like this sad event. He not only
has been the President of the Church, but
a father to the people. Their welfare and
prosperity, their preservation from evil,
and their advancement in everything holy
and pure has always been the uppermost
thought and desire of his heart. In his 
love for and devotion to the work of God
he has never wavered. During the thirty-
three years that he has presided over the
Church, since the martyrdom of the Proph-
et Joseph, his knees have never trembled,
his hands have never shook; he has never
faltered or qualied. However threatening
the surroundings or prospects may have
been, he has never been dismayed; but at
those times he has exhibited such serene
confidence and faith, and uttered such
words of encouragement, as to comfort and
[---] all the people and to call forth their
love [---]
not only blessed him with [---]
dowed him with great wisdom. His coun-
sels, when obeyed, have been attended
with salvation, and as an organizer and ad-
ministrator he has no superior. Of this the
people of the entire church are his witness-
es, and our Territory, as well as the many
settlements in the adjacent Territories are
his monuments. He always had the coun-
sel of the Lord and none ever sought it
from him in vain.
	Beloved Saints: We have been greatly
favored of the Lord in being permitted to
live in this dispensation and in having
been led by two such men as the prophets
Joseph and Brigham. Of Joseph, the
prophet and seer of the Lord, it has been
truthfully said, that at his death, he had
done more (save Jesus only,) for the devel-
opment of the principles of life and salva-
tion of men in this world, in the space of
time in which he was on earth than my
other man that ever lived upon it. The
prophet Brigham has proved himself wor-
thy to be his successor.
	His labors the Lord has crowned with
the most remarkable success, his words he
has honored and fulfilled, and those who
have obeyed his counsel he has blessed and
upheld. The time will yet come when his
presidency over the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints will be pointed to as an
epoch of wonderful events. In the provi-
dence of the Lord, however, he has been
taken from us. Great efforts in prayer have
been made, and constant administration of
the gospel ordinance for the sick, to still
keep him here; but the Lord has ordered
otherwise. We must here acknowledge 
that it is the Lord to whom he was indebt-
ed for the wisdom and intelligence display-
ed by him. The bestowal of these gifts
manifests the care and supervision which
He exercises over His people; for these
blessings are all the gift of God, and all em-
anate from Him. The Prophets Joseph
Smith and Brigham Young have been, and
now are, in His hands as His instruments
in doing His work, and so are we. We
have the same consolation, however, in this 
our time of grief and deep affliction, that

[Column 3]

the Prophet Brigham had upon hearing of
the cruel martyrdom of the prophets Joseph
and Hyrum—"the keys of the [---]
[---] Joseph
may be martyred, Brigham may die so far
as this life may be concerned; but our Heav-
enly Father still lives, the holy priesthood
and apostleship, which He restored to the
earth, still remain to guide and govern,
and to administer ordinances to the Church
which He has established. Our beloved
brother Brigham Young has gone to join
the prophet Joseph and the host of the holy
and the pure who are behind the vail; but
we do not therefore lose the benefit of his
labors. He is now in a position to do more
for that work which he loved so well, and
for which he labored so ardently, than he
could possibly do in the flesh; and that
work will roll onward with Increased power
and accelerated speed.
	The President of the Church having
been taken from us by death, the Church is
now placed in the same position as it was at
the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph-
of the First Presidency to the [---]
ties, the Prophet Joseph said (Millennial
Star, Vol. XV., page 595), "the Twelve are
not subject to any other than the First
Presidency, viz: myself, Sydney Rigdon,
and Frederick G. Williams, who are now
my counselors (and where I am not there is
no First Presidency over the Twelve)" Af-
ter the death of the prophet Joseph, Presi-
dent Young, in speaking to the Saints,
said: "For the first time in the kingdom
of God, the Twelve Apostles of the Lamb,
chosen by revelation, in the last dispensa-
tion of the gospel for the winding up scene,
present themselves before the Saints to
stand in their lot according to appoint-
ment."
	"Here are the Twelve appointed by the
finger of God, who hold the keys of the
priesthood and the authority to set in or-
der and regulate the church in all the
world. Here is Elder Amasa Lyman and
Elder Sydney Rigdon; they were counsel-
ors in the First Presidency, and they are
counselors to the Twelve still, if they keep
their places; but if either wish to act as
'spokesman' for the Prophet Joseph, he
must go behind the vail where Joseph is."
—Times and Seasons, Vol. 5, page 637.
	Once more the necessity for the Twelve
Apostles to step forward and take the Pres-
idency of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter day Saints has arisen. The same
spirit which rested upon the prophet Jos-
eph before his martyrdom, in instructing
the Twelve Apostles as to their duties and
responsibilities and the necessity of their
bearing off the kingdom, has rested upon
the Prophet Brigham Young during this
past spring and summer. He released all
the Twelve who were presiding over 
Stakes, from those duties, selected others
 to fill those positions,and taught the Church
that the Twelve Apostles were called by
their priesthood to act in a wider and more
extended sphere than to be presidents of
stakes. All his teachings and counsels
indicated that there would be an increase
of responsibility and jurisdiction resting
upon them, and that they would be held to


[Column 1]
a stricter accountability than they had
been. We can now understand and at-
tach an importance and significance to
these teachings and counsels which we
could not at the time they were given.
	On Tuesday, September 4th, the two
counselors of President Young and ten of
the Twelve Apostles,—two of the Twelve,
Brothers Orson Pratt and Joseph F. Smith,
being absent in England,—held a meeting
contrite and saddened hearts we earnestly
sought to learn His mind and will concern-
ing us and His Church. The Lord blessed
us with a spirit of union and condescended
to reveal to us what steps we should take,
Elder John Taylor, the senior Apostle, and
who has acted as the President of the
Twelve, was unanimously sustained in that
position. With the same unanimity also
it was voted that the quorum of the Twelve
Apostles is the presiding quorum and au-
thority in the Church.
	These things are so plainly indicated by
the revelations and in the past history of
the Church that they could not be ignored,
either by the Twelve Apostles or by the
President's Counselors. Hence, again, as
a similar course was adopted on the death
of the Prophet Joseph, the two Counselors
of President Young—Presidents John W.
Young and Daniel H. Wells—were unani-
mously sustained as one with, counselors
to and associated in [---] [---] the Twelve 
Apostles.
	To facilitate the transaction of business
it was voted unanimously that for the pres-
ent, President John Taylor be assisted by
Brothers John W. Young, Daniel H. Wells,
and George Q. Cannon in attending to busi
ness connected with the Temples, the pub
lic works, and other church affairs of a fi-
nancial character.
	Inquiries have arisen respecting the
brethren who have been employed by the
various quorums to work ou the Temple.
Upon this subject we desire to say that it
is not intended in making the change that
has been suggested—for the pay of the
brethren to come through the Bishops in-
stead of the quorums—to release those who
have subscribed through the quorums; but
only to put it in another shape. It is ex-
pected that the members of the quorums
will still continue to do what they have
hitherto done; but the pay given will
be made to the Bishops of their respective
Wards, who should, as early as possible, as-
certain from the various members of quo-
rnms in their Wards that which each one
has been paying, and collect the same, so
that they may be prepared by this means
to meet the payments as they come due.
We hope that instead of slackening in our
efforts to push the Temples forward, there
will be an increase of zeal and energy on
the part of all, from the Apostles, through
all the ranks of the priesthood to the young-
est member of the Church.
	The Bishops in all the Stakes of Zion
should make arrangements to have a meet-
ing of the lesser priesthood in their Wards
once every week. These meetings they
should attend personally with their coun-
selors, so as to give necessary instruction,
and also that they may learn the true con-
dition of the flock over which they are
called to preside. At 11 o'clock a. m. on
the first Saturday in every month there
should be held in every Stake a general
priesthood meeting of all the officers of the
church. These meetings should be held at
the place in each Stake most convenient for
this purpose; and full reports of the condi-
tion of the various Wards should be made

[Column 2]
to these meetings by the Bishops. In-
struction and counsel can then be given
that will have the effect to produce concert
of action in all matters of a public charac-
ter in the different Stakes, and that will
result in the spread of the principles of the
gospel among the people and the more per-
fect development of the Church.
	That there may be a correct understand-
ing among all the Stakes of Zion respect-
ing the time for holding the quarterly con-
[illegible line]
Presidents be enabled to make preparations
therefor, we have deemed it best to make
the following appointments for the confer-
ences for the next half year. It will be
seen that in most instances they will be
held in two Stakes upon the same days.
This is unavoidable, in consequence of the
great number of Stakes.
	Salt Lake Stake, Oct. 6, 1877—Jan. 5 and
		6, 1878.
	Davis and Utah Stakes, Oct. 13 and 14
		1877—Jan 12 and 10, 1878.
	Weber and Juab Stakes, Oct. 20, and 21,
		1877—Jan. 19 and 20, 1878.
	Tooele and Box Elder Stakes Oct. 27 and
		28, 1877—Jan. 26 and 27, 1878.
	Wasatch and Cache Stakes, Nov. 3, and
		4, 1877—Feb. 2 and 3, 1878.
	Summit and Bear Lake Stakes, Nov. 10
		and 11, 1877—Feb. 9 and 10, 1878.
	Morgan and [---] Stakes,  Nov. 17 and
		18, 1877—Feb 16 and 17, 1878.
	Sevier and Millard Stakes, Nov. 24 and
		25, 1877—Feb. 23 and 24, 1878.
	Panguitch and Beaver Stakes, Dec. 1 and 
		2, 1877—March 2 and 3, 1878.
	Kanab and Iron Stakes, Dec. 8 and 9,
		1877—March 9 and 10, 1878,
	St. George Stake, Dec. 15 and 16, 1877
		—March 16 and 17, 1878.
	As the time for holding our General
Semi Annual Conference is approaching, it
is very desirable that complete reports be
prepared by those officers whose duty it is
to make reports. The circular, issued re-
cently by the First Presidency, explains
the necessity for and character of these re-
ports. Blank forms have also been prepar-
ed, and have been published by the Deser-
et News, for reports of Bishops and Presi-
dents of Stakes. Immediate steps should
be taken by the Bishops of the various
Wards and by others who are presiding
over branches, to obtain full reports upon
all the points included in the blank forms.
These when completed should be sent to
the Presidents of Stakes, who should, from
these reports, draw up their reports, includ-
ing as complete a financial exhibit as prac-
ticable, and either forward, or bring them
to the Conference in this city. Before Pres-
ident Young's sickness, he arranged for the
monthly Priesthood meeting of the Salt Lake
Stake of Zion, to be held in the New Tab-
ernacle on Thursday, the 4th of October.
This will be a general meeting, and will be
held at 10 o'clock a.m. All the Priesthood
and Saints are invited to attend that meet-
ing, also those held in the afternoon of
that day, and the next day, Friday the 5th,
preparatory to the General Semi-annual
Conference, which will commence on Sat-
urday, the 6th of October.
	And now, brethren and sisters, we ex-
hort you to arouse yourselves and to seek
unto the Lord in fervent faith and prayer.
We know that our Father in heaven is a
God of revelation. He is ready and will-
ing to pour out His blessings and gifts up-
on those who seek unto Him for them.
We need them as individuals and as a peo-
ple to qualify us for the duties which de-
volve upon us. We should remember and
carry into practical effect the counsels and

[Column 3]
instructions we have so liberally received
from our departed President. He has gone
from us; but the flock is not left without a
shepherd. Latter-day Saints should so
live that they may know the voice of the
true shepherd, and not be deceived by pre-
tenders. This is the privilege of every
member of the Church, and the Latter-day
Saint who does not live so as to have the
revelations of Jesus constantly with him,
stands in great danger of being deceived
and falling away. We have before us the
building up and redeeming of Zion. This
can only be done by the aid of the Lord.
All the signs which the Lord promised to
send in the last days are making their ap-
pearance. They show that the day of the
Lord is near. A great work has got to be
done, and there is but little time in which
to accomplish it; great diligence is, there-
fore, required. Let us, then, go to with
our might and build the Temples of the 
Most High and accomplish every other la-
bor devolving upon us. Let us not slacken
our diligence or give way to doubt, unbe-
lief or hardness of heart; but be strong in
the Lord, and cry unto Him unceasingly to
give us the power to build up His Zion on
the earth and to help establish a reign of
righteousness, peace and truth.
	Our prayers are offered [---] in be-
[---] all the officers and Saints composing
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, that the Lord will pour out upon
them the spirit of consolation and that He
will endow them with the revelations of
the Lord Jesus so bountifully that every
one will understand his duty and be prompt
in the fulfillment thereof. Let us build
each other up in the most holy faith, culti-
vating love, meekness and lowliness of
heart, charity, patience and long-suffering,
bearing with each other's faults, and yet
avoiding the very appearance of evil, so
that others, seeing our good works, may be
led to glorify God.
	We remain your brethren in the new
and everlasting covenant,
			JOHN TAYLOR,
			WILFORD WOODRUFF,
			ORSON HYDE,
			CHARLES C. RICH,
			LORENZO SNOW,
			ERASTUS SNOW,
			FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS,
			GEORGE Q. CANNON,
			BRIGHAM YOUNG,
			ALBERT CARRINGTON,
			JOHN W. YOUNG,
