THE BABY.

What is all this noise about?
	The house is full of joy to-day;
Hear the laugh and call ring out,
	They cannot hear a word I say;
I cannot read, or think [---]
	In all this racket full of fun;
I really wish that it were night,
	And they were sleepy, every one.

I don’t know what I want to do,
	For hard as I may try to think; 
The sound of those boot heels goes through
	My ears so sharp, it makes me wink.
And I know just how the hair I curled
	So silken smooth an hour ago,
For a rosy-cheeked, dear little girl,
	Is tossing, flying high and low.

And the baby's as wild as either one,
	The darling little household prince!
O’er racket of chairs that fall as they run,
	He shrieks with Joy: I fairly wince,
Why! “the baby is walking alone to-day,"
	The first time in his little life:
Ah! the thought near takes my breath away,
	And the happy words cut like a knife.

“O! aint you proud ma'am?" Susan asks,
	"And how surprised pa'pa will be!"
And she forgets her crowding tasks,
	And gives him kisses two and three.
Proud? when his first steps alone,
	Open my eyes to the truth, heart sore;
He out of his babyhood has grown,
	And needs my leading hand no more.

And it seems as though the baby boy
	I have loved so silently and well;
Must have been a dream-child, and the joy,
	The year has passed, an unbroken spell;
And now, instead of a babe in my arms,
	Starting in sleep when I lay him down;
My heart is thrilled with swift alarms;
	While steady and sure, he runs around.

O my boy! to think that you,
	Would choose to slide from your mother's
		kneee;
Would rather shout with those tom boys two,
	Than here in her loving arms to be.
When did you change you butter-fly,
	From a cradled thing to a thing of flight?
No, no, I cannot laugh while I
	Look on the new and doubtful sight.

The wide earth luring thee to go;
	Temptations smile; ambition’s call;
And thou a man! life's ways must know,
	Must meet the lessons one and all
And I have fleen thy brightest love!
	How weak alas! thy mother's arms?
They cannot keep thee. Lord above,
	Lead Thou my darling safe from harm.

