Beauty in the Home Christine H. Robinson Member, General Board of Relief Society (Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 7, 1959) zine featured an unusual family that lives in an unusual place. This family makes its home at the bottom of a steep canyon on the winding Snake River. Here, without many of the common household conveniences to which all of us are accustomed, including electricity, the parents have reared eleven children. We are told that theirs is a happier, more satisfying life than that of most conventional householders. In this secluded canyon, the parents and children depend upon each other for companionship, and upon a colorful wilderness for enjoyment and recreation. One of the children remarked, "As for television, who needs that when one lives in an enchanted canyon?" I am not personally acquainted with the members of this family nor the circumstances under which they have built their unusual home. Furthermore, I am sure that not all of us could or would want to live in an isolated canyon. Yet, I am impressed with the fact that without many of the physical home conveniences, which we feel are so necessary to our own happiness, this family, apparently, has built much beauty into its home. I am sure all of us strive to make our homes places of beauty. Many of us search long and hard to fnd Page 148 R eine feats a national magajust the right piece of furniture, the right accessories and color scheme, to achieve this beauty. Surely, the physical beauty of a home is important to our comfort and wellbeing. Still, another type of beauty is far more essential. 'This beauty is an atmosphere, a climate, the spirit of the home, the attitude of its inhabitants one toward the other. At first glance these may seem intangibles, but, actually, they are as real and as accessible as the smile on your face, the friendly light in your eyes, the kind words on your lips, and the expression of love and understanding in your heart. This is the type of beauty which you may not be able to touch or to describe, but you can feel and sense it the very moment you enter a home The beauty of which I speak is well within the reach of everyone. It can be found in the humblest cottage, in the tiniest apartment, as well as in a palatial home. And, as with most great things in hfe, it is free for the asking. We can buy palatial homes and extravagant furnishings, but we cannot give silver or gold for peace or happiness. We can pay for pleasures and luxuries, but we cannot buy love. Still, many of us are prone to think of beauty only in its objective, physical state. Yet, the wise men of the ages, who have attempt- BEAUTY IN THE HOME ed to define and analyze beauty, all agree that its spiritual aspects are of paramount importance. Socrates, Aristotle, Plato, and Aquinas, all describe beauty as synonymous with truth, goodness, harmony, unity, and tranquility. 'These are values well within the reach of all of us and, through their application, we can bring a feeling of serenity, peace, and rest into our homes. In a home where this type of beauty is present, jcalousy, fear, and insecurity are banished and replaced with settled courage, faith, and trust. Think back with me into the early experiences in your home life. What are the pleasant things that come first to your mind? Are they the big things associated with material possessions, or are they the simple, little, heart-warming things, such as the fragrance of newly baked bread, the feeling of "togetherness'' as you met daily around the kitchen or dining table, the spiritual uplift of family prayers, the memory o loving friends stopping in for a chat and a piece of grandmother's wonderful apple pie? Do you remember the little acts of thoughtfulness and kindness your mother _performed each day — the smile on her face, and the fact that she was always there to mend a_ bruised knee or a broken heart? 'Today, in our busy schedules, are we providing these types of surroundings and these memories for our children? 'These are the so-called intangible qualities which are so important, if we would have real and lasting beauty. In our homes. LL of us need beauty to make our lives complete. And we all have that beauty within us, though 149 we express it in different ways. The poet expresses it in words; the artist uses canvas and colors; the sculptor, stone. 'The mother expresses it in the tender love for her child. Each one of us in our everyday contact with one another can express the beauty within us. We can mingle with one another in a spirit of consideration and thoughtfulness. We can be gentle, patient, and courteous. We can govern our actions with a kindly regard for others. We can radiate cheerfulness wherever we go. For cheerfulness, also, is an expression of beauty, and it will reflect in the attitude of everyone we meet, just as surely as a beautiful flower drooping over the edge of a pond reflects in the water. A few days ago a friend of mine told me how her _ six-year-old brought her back abruptly to reality and the importance of cheerfulness. It was one of thosc busy, frustrating mornings, and my friend was hurrying through her work with what must have been a grim expression on her face, when she noticed her daughter looking at her intently. Finally the little girl said: "I was just thinking, Mama, how pretty your face is when you smile." In the home where spiritual beauty is stressed you will find kindness, for kindness dwells in each member's heart. You will find goodhumored tolerance of others, because forgiveness is practiced. You will find courtesy, for people who have formed the habit of being kind, loving, and patient are naturally courteous. Like many of you, I was blessed in having a wise grandmother who was also a fine cook. She brought many choice recipes with her from 150 the "old country." One day she was sharing a recipe with a friend and, after telling her to take so many cups of this and tablespoons of that, grandmother finished with, "But remember, Carrie, if the soup is to be a success, you must also add a gencrous amount of grace." 'To me, a young child, this seemed very strange. I hadn't seen any cans on our cupboard shelves marked "grace," and I told grandmother so. I shall always remember her reply. "My dear, no matter what you do in life, whether it's making Danish soup, singing a lullaby, or writing a book, if you would know the true flavor of living, you must give gen erously of yourself, of your sweet spirit, of your love. You must add grace." Let us add grace to our lives. And let us remember that lasting, permanent beauty in our hearts and in our homes is made up of encouraging words, loving deeds, sympathy expressed, heartaches healed, a kiss, a smile, a song which makes us feel light-hearted, free, and glad. These are tried links which, when bound together, make a golden chain of beauty around our door. May we all strive to gain such beauty in our souls and in our homes is my humble prayer.