Offerings of the Heart Frances C. Yost ARJORIE Martin tied the bow under tiny Julie's chin and said, '""There, the little sunbonnet Mommie made for you will keep those old freckles off Julie's smiling face." She patted her little daughter lovingly and added: "Have fun in the yard, Juhe darling, and don't put anything in your mouth." "Bye bye, Mommie," — Julie mouthed the words joyfully. Her little face wreathed in smiles under the sunbonnet. "Back soon!' She was gone out into the warm morning sunshine. "Julie talks very well for her age," Marjorie's mother-in-law said, as she picked up the dish towel to dry the dishes Marjorie had started washing. "Yes, Julie does talk nicely," Marjorie agrced. "Why, she won't be two years old until July, and already she can make her every want known. Since Dan fenced in the back yard so securely, do you think I make a mistake turning her out alone, Mother Martin?" "Why, I think she's all nght for a spell, but she bears watching. All children do." Mother Martin laughed a little. "I can watch her every movement while I wash the dishes here at the sink," Marjorie said. "Oh, oh, she's picking those nasty dandelions. It's just like her to cart them in the house, and want them stuck in a flower vase. Well, I'm not having the house overrun with those ugly weeds, as some doting mothers do! Pll nip bringing bouquets to mother before she starts." Marjorie quickly dried her hands and started for the door. "Just a minute, Marjorie. I think I should tell you about Emily," Mother Martin said gravely. "Who on earth is Emily?" "Temily is a little girl [ knew very well, long ago." Mother Martin kept drying dishes as she spoke, but her eyes had a faraway look. Emily didn't have a thing to give her mother, and she wanted so much to give her something nice, for Mother was always giving her something, or doing something for her. It was springtime, and the wild flowers were in bloom, and so Emily decided to gather a lovely bouquet of flowers for Mother, and give them with her love. Emily started gathering the flowers, but the wild flowers were scattered. Emily was not even aware of the time or energy she was using as she climbed over crags and rocks and even walked where the ground was slippery and muddy for a pretty flower to add to her tiny bouquet. The day wasn't overly hot, but it took a long time to find the flowers, and some of the first ones had wilted in her sweaty little hands. At last Emily had a nice little bouquet of flowers of many colors, and proudly she retraced her steps towards home. The walk, ordinarily, would have seemed long, but today Emily thought of the pretty smile on Mother's face when she would see the lovely little bouquet of wild flowers. In her excitement, Emily forgot Page 189 190 the mud on her feet, forgot to clean them on the mat. Instead, she rushed into the house calling, "See what I have!" "T see what you have, mud on your shoes!" Her mother expostulated. Mother came toward Emily, but she wasn't wearing her "'nice-tosee-you-smile.'"" Mother's face looked like the old cracked earthen bow] turned over. Then Mother spoke sharply: "Get those ugly weeds out of my house, and clean your feet before you come in. I've scrubbed and cleaned all day, and I'm tired!" MILY turned and ran from the house, still clutching the wild, wilted flowers in her hot, little hand. As she rushed toward the old woodshed, she felt tears splashing on her cheeks. She crept into the woodshed and shut the door tightly. Emily had built a little playhouse in the corner, where the wood had been used, but she wasn't in the mood for playing house now. She wasn't crying aloud as she sometimes did. She was sobbing, big, gasping sobs that she could not control, could not stop. Emily fell exhausted on the slivery floor, and sobs shook her body, and the tears kept splashing on her cheeks. Later, Emily laid out the flowers one by one on Daddy's greasy old work bench. Mother was right, they looked old now, but if the little flowers had a drink of water, they would look pretty. When she was all hot and tired, a drink of water made her look better, and feel better. 'The flowers were only thirsty and tired. 'They were not old and ugly, as Mother had said. Just thinking of mother and the flowers made Emily start to cry all over again. But this time she just cried silently, inwardly. She had so wanted to surprise Mother, give her a nice present. Make her eyes light up and her face smile and smile and smile all day. Mother Martin's story culminated when a childish little knock was heard on the back door. Marjorie went to open it. "Look, Mommie, flowers for you." Julie's face was wreathed with joy, as she extended a handful of dandelions to her mother. "Why, Julie, these are pretty as primroses. 'Thank you so much, my little darling." Marjorie stooped to kiss the tiny forehead under the little sunbonnet. 'Then she turned to Mother Martin. "Do you mind if I ask who was little Emily, of the generous heart?'' "I was christened Emily May. When I grew older I was just known as May," Mother Martin explained. Marjorie's voice had an almost reverent quality when she said: "Thank you, Mother Martin, for teaching me a very important lesson in life." <> (