[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL REPORTS. | Author: Unknown]

RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL REPORTS.
	The time has come for annual reports and
it is important that reports be sent in as soon
as possible after the close of 1900. It is not
only necessary to have Stake reports, but
wherever a Relief Society has been organized
outside Stakes, whether in the United States,
British Empire, Scandinavia, Germany,
Switzerland, Holland, the islands of the sea,
reports for the year 1900, from January 1
to December 31, are expected at head-
quarters.
	E. B. WELLS, General Secretary.


SECRETARY LONG on December 19,
bought a residence site in Colorado Springs,
and will build a house there at once. His 
daughters who have been spending a year 
in Colorado for their health, propose to 
make the State their permanent home. May 
they vote at many more presidential
elections.—Ex.
	UTAH had some beautiful specimens of 
Utah-grown silk. There were silk hand-
kerchiefs with pictures of the Tabernacle 
and Assembly Hall in the corners, netted 
silk scarfs, and lovely soft skeins of raw 
silk in the jubilee colors, yellow, red and 
green. There were Navajo blankets made 
expressly for the Bazar, one of them worth 
a hundred dollars; Navajo rugs (the Utah 
women ordered them from an Indian 
woman in San Juan who makes them;) fine 
blankets from the Provo and Beaver mills 
pictures by Culmer and Ottinger, samples 
of gold and salt, photographs of magnificent 
Western scenery and of groups of Indians.
There were Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells’s
poems, three volumes of the Young 
Woman’s Journal, published in Salt Lake 
City, “The Wonderland of the Wild West”
	o her books.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
	ace one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 208 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
econd-class matter.

