[Vol53 | October 1966 | Page 743 | Fiction | The Complex Kathryn | E. Franks]
[The Complex Kathryn E. Franks]

It was built to house your grandfather's horse and carriage. You call that a garage?" '"'Well it does a good job housing my station wagon and your father's sedan." "And a list of things too long for mentioning," Dad _ added, coming to Beth's defense. The other things he had in mind were bikes, sleds, toboggans, Steve's derby car. '""Maybe so," chimed in Steve, "but it is pretty out-dated." Even as a child, Beth had loved her grandparents' home here on the outskirts of town. She had played in the haymow, helped her grandfather hoe the garden, and during the hot summer days, she and her grandmother had picked fruit from the orchard. Soon after her grandparents were gone she and Tom were married. Rather than sell the property, they decided to move into it and make it into a big, comfortable home. True, they had soon made some up-to-date changes, but mostly they liked the house best with its early-day charm. While Tom served the plates, Beth looked through the kitchen window with a happy, contented expression. "You know," she said, "I sort of like the looks of the old barn back there next to the orchard. That big maple spreads its shade over the roof in the summer and shades most that part of the yard. My friend, who is an artist, called it 'picturesque.' " "Mother," Sara moaned, 'you just don't understand."' "Yes," answered Beth seriously, "I do understand. We were 744 happy and comfortable in this spacious old house with its big orchards and gardens. Now these subdivisions are going up with their well-designed homes, and suddenly you notice the difference. I admit there is a contrast, but that hardly gives us reason to pull up and move. Anyway, those new homes are expensive, and probably cramped for room." "Maybe so," admitted Sara, "but I've seen two girls and one boy my age moving into the finished houses on old Hill Road. They'll be our neighbors. They'll go to our school. Now Steve and I will be known as the boy and girl from that old house on the corner... With the barn!" So the complex grew through the spring into the first of June. Several of the homes were finished now and landscaped. More families were moving in, with new cars, too. Beth had to admit she began to feel the contrast. Each time she got such notions she went to the garden and picked string beans or went to the orchard and picked peaches from the trees. Feeling contented again, she thought about the new families with pint-size yards and only one broom closet to a house. Beth was at the front window hanging freshly washed curtains at the open window the day one of the new girls bicycled up the street close to the fence where Sara, in her flowered cotton dress, trimmed the withered roses from Beth's favorite rosebushes. The pretty brown-haired girl circled twice on her bike, hoping, Beth felt sure, that Sara would look up and speak. Sara, still smoldering in her complex, did not stop her snipping. Sara must have decided, Beth thought, that the girl looked lonesome because she took pity and spoke to her. In a second the new girl was off her bike and beside the fence. Soon they were chatting in that friendly fourteen-year-old tone. Before Beth had the curtains hung, Sara came toward the house, bringing the girl around to the back. As they walked by the windows she could hear their conversation. There are so many things, Beth thought, that she'll want to learn from Sara, about the school, the neighborhood. The girls were at the back of the house now, beside the back steps. "What an_ interesting house," the girl remarked, looking as if she were taking notes on the house and the old bam. "I bet you've had some good slumber parties up in that hayloft. Have you?" "No," answered Sara, without enthusiasm. "I had only part of the empty loft cleared away for the playhouse. The neighborhood girls used it sometimes, but I've never had a party or slept up there."' Sara wanted to change the subject, but the girl's eyes stayed on the barn, gathering ideas. "Your house is so big, I bet you have a room all to yourself." THE COMPLEX Her eyes had left the barn and now she covered the big, twostory house. "Yes, there are four bedrooms upstairs, and one guest room down," Sara informed her. "You're lucky. We have only three bedrooms in our house. My brother has a room, but my sister and I have to share a room. I better get going," the new girl said, turning. "It is time for my piano lesson. See you." I "Why didn't you ask her in?" Beth asked Sara when she came inside for a cold drink. "I suppose I should have," Sara said, "she seemed anxious to get acquainted. Her name is Pat. But I don't want her going all over the new neighborhood advertising about our house, inside and out." Now here we go again, Beth thought to herself, as she went back to the curtains. Steve came in at lunchtime and announced that he had met one of the new boys. "Dick's a nice kid, Mom. He'd play, but he has to stay around home and help plant shrubs and water the new lawn. His place is going to be real pretty, though. Sure makes our place look awful countryish."' "Oh," cried Beth as she struck her finger with the hammer she was using to drive a nail through the curtain rod. "I wish," she groaned to herself, "that Id never seen a bulldozer go by this house on its way to clear those lots." In a matter of days word got around about the house and barn but not the way that Sara imagined. The girls had started to come around the house now in twos 


 and threes. There appeared to be five now, including Sara, who had formed a clique. "It has a real hayloft," she heard one of the girls explain as they brought each new girl around to look. Enthusiastically, the girls hurried inside the barn and climbed the old ladder with such suggestions as: "Oh, this is neat. Why don't we clean it up and bring our record player up here?" Or, "Maybe my mother will let me "This is more fun than anything," exclaimed Bea, the smal] blonde girl, as she came into the kitchen with Sara to help carry to the barn. Beth had been so busy just keeping ice cubes in the refrigerator and snacks ready for the hungry girls that she had trouble remembering the girls' names. "Tf you'll help me," Beth heard Sara say a few days later, "I']] ask mother if we can clear away the south side of the barn that was used as the stable and make it into a Stage." The girls nearly burst with joy over the idea. "We can have our own little theater," they shouted. Possibilities By the end Stage progressed as the boys hammered away on a tree house. "Boy," You can't even play catch in their back yards." "There's room here," Beth said. "If you overflow the tree house you always have the orchard." THE first time Beth visited Bea's mother she felt uneasy the minute into the house. The inside was so freshly Painted and beautifully carpeted that Beth felt afraid she'd touch lawns. Beth mentioned it to Sara that evening while they washed dishes, "No wonder," Sara said, "that the girls like to come here." "Girls your age prefer comfort to luxury," Beth said, careful not to use that I-told-you-so tone. € next few days the heat drove the girls inside to the cooler rooms of the big house. Pat, sitting cross-legged on the floor confessed, "I'm Sure glad we moved here, Sara. I have always lived in an apartment. You don't know how much fun this is." "Too bad," Bea said, "that it wasn't your house for sale instead of all those new lots where we bought." "I think your homes are beautiful," Sara answered. Beth wondered from the tone of her voice if she hadn't really got over her complex. The sound of Sara's voice stil] bothered Beth as she went to the kitchen to prepare cold ham and potato salad for supper. She walked through the hot sunshine and brought in tomatoes from her garden. She moved a lemon pie to the back shelf of the refrigerator so the children would not see it until after dinner. Beth had dinner arranged attractively on her yellow and white checkered cloth, with a large bowl of shasta daisies and marigolds in the center when Tom came in from sprinkling the lawn. "You know," he said, as the family seated themselves at the table, "you children are right. These new homes are making our house look shabby and _ outdated. I'm going to talk to Mr. Rogers, the real estate broker tomorrow. I'll have him come out and give us an estimate on our property. We could get a smaller house over in the tract area by the lake. Be near the lake and the new high school." Sara and Steve's protests went THE COMPLEX up like white flags. "No, Dad,' Steve insisted quickly. "We're over our complex. We like it here." Sara couldn't speak right away because tears had suddenly filled her eyes. She managed enough voice to say, "I wouldn't want to move, Daddy. Not ever. We'll stay here,' she suggested, ''and Steve and I will save our allowances and buy some paint, maybe some more roses for around the front fence." "I could help paint," Steve offered, with all the confidence of a man. "Come on, agree, or mother will start doctoring you for what is it she called it, a complex." Beth smiled back, and suddenly confident that the "complex" was a thing of the past, she started passing the food.

clock. Add 2 cups more sugar. Cook 20 minutes (by clock). Stir constantly to avoid scorching. Remove from the stove and pour into an earthen dish, or crock (no metal bowl). Let stand for 24 hours. Stir every time you pass the bowl. After the jam has set for 24 hours, put it in clean, sterile bottles, which have been prepared beforehand, and placed on a thick towel so that they will be completely dry. Then seal with wax or self-sealing lids which have been dipped in boiling water. HOW TO SEW NYLON TRICOT Ethel Maturale Since nylon tricot has come on the market, I have had hundreds of calls from women asking to know how they can adjust their machines to mend and sew this fabric without skipping stitches. Many machines for commercial manufacturing, also, are difficult to adjust. I use spray starch generously down the seams I want to sew, then let the material dry, and the zigzag stitch works perfectly. The plain sewing, also, was successfully stitched. 752 Crepe Paper Costumes © shiney tin The planning of costumes for home, Church, and school entertainment events can be difficult sometimes. For easy, inexpensive costumes, why not use colorful crepe paper? A basic costume has been especially worked out so that both child and mother, or teacher, can have the most fun with the least work. Two rolls of crepe paper and the trimmings can make an elaborate costume with no end to its variations. Remember, too, that nowadays, crepe paper is absolutely flame-proof. A dancing snowflake is made of white crepe and trimmed with lace paper doilies. Change the crepe to light blue, stud it with stars, and a beautiful angel or fairy princess appears. Then, in a twinkling, and a few snips of the scissors, she becomes a spry little elf. SEWING METHODS through the entire fold 1314 inches Crepe paper may be sewed on the wide (or desired length of skirt), then aaatioe e Se hand. It will not ravel, Unfold (figure 1). Cut strips of wrapso hemming or facing is not necessary. Ping paper 1 inch wide and _ stitch The following directions will make a Underneath along one long edge of the costume to fit a five or six year old: skirt to give added stiffness. Gather the opposite edge and sew to waistSKIRT: Cut a piece of crepe paper line of a cotton slip (figure 2). For length of skirt gathered skirt 


 BODICE: Cut a strip of crepe 10 inches wide with the grain, and 24 inches long, or long enough to go around the child's waist. Fold in half lengthwise, then turn ends in and stitch. Sew the bodice to the top of a cotton slip over the gathered skirt top (figure 3). COLLAR: Cut a strip of crepe 10 inches wide and 60 inches long, gather lengthwise 3 inches from one long edge, until the collar fits child's neck, then fold over along the gathers. Sew ribbons to each end to tie (figure 4). Trim with tinsel or fluting as desired. 60'' deeper ruffle top of slip bodice collar figure 4 gather here 3'' deep 10"' 7" for large ruffle of collar collar HAT: Cut a strip of crepe 10 inches wide, with the grain, and 22 inches long (figure 5). Fold one long edge under 114 inches, cut opposite edge into eight scallops 314 inches deep, for a scalloped flower froufrou trim for the top of the hat. Cut a strip of crepe 8 inches wide with the grain, by 12 inches long. Cut one edge into fringe (eight separate fringe sections, each 1144 inches wide and 6 inches deep). Curl ends of fringe over scissor blade. Gather bottom edge, tie tightly, and place in center of gathered scallops. Tie fringes and scallops tightly together (in back) to form completed hat. Te figure 4 cut 8 scallops for top decoration nt f 314" deep ln ii gather here crown of hat Vid 1" Vm, I fold under iy (Zag i a' —>I 7 l 1 4y%'' 8" + 2'' deep hat figure 5 754 22" long Dap 8 curled fringes —) each 114"' wide and 6'' deep 8 scallops around hat crown of hat 8 fringes each one 114" wide I 6'' deep for rI curled fringes gather here "I'm not going to kill myself gardening,' I denied. But my grown children and some of my friends still shook their heads and clucked, '"You're not as young as you used to be! Even as well as you are." "IT am taking it easy," I insisted. And I am—really. I am one of those women who must have a small plot of earth from which to coax forth color and beauty by their own efforts. I enjoy gardening. "But think of all the fringe benefits as well!' I gaily point out to my well-meaning critics. It means better health for me. Then, too, I have the satisfaction of doing something creative that gives me pleasure, an attitude of looking forward, not back. In gardening one is concerned with next month's results, planning next season's improvements. Not the least of these intangibles is that certain aura of tranquility that is engendered while working in one's own garden, where, somehow, some way, the Giver of life seems closer.; But to get back to earth, so to speak, gardening is work — but the work depends a lot on how you do it. I do it the easy way, whenever possible, knowing that some planning ahead, a certain amount of organization, and a little thought given to efficiency make the work easier. A neighbor boy cuts my lawn, and either he or one of his friends is most cooperative when, for instance, a man-size hole with a man-size shovel is called for. I work at my garden any time that is convenient for me, weather permitting, because I do have many other important things to do. I prefer mornings for work, in warm weather, the earlier, the better. I never allow myself to get overheated, or to arrive at a state of overexertion, but always stop short of these conditions. I am addicted to frequent rest periods, when I sit back and enjoy the results of my handiwork. I also dress properly for gardening, am properly shod (no slipper discards nor bedroom slippers). I wear clothes that are comfortable, tubable — and neat looking. I always wear gloves, either canvas for coolness or plastic for wetness. A light weight handcart is my pride and joy. What a step saver! In it I put everything I think I may need for the job at hand, and always my kneeling cushion encased in a big, disposable brown paper sack to keep it clean. I keep all my supplies in a corner of the garage, the seed catalogues and the things I cut from the garden section of the Sunday paper. There's a wide shelf, too, where I can do potting without stooping. On a nail hangs a memo pad and pencil. When I hang up my gloves I often jot down some little jobs that need doing. When the odd moment arrives — say, after dinner or waiting for the pot to boil, a glance at the pad reminds me to snip the crowding buds on the camellias or to do a little trowel work around the potted plants in the patio. There is no pressure on me the way I garden. The rewards — enjoyment and innumerable fringe benefits. Time moves on. Some day a physical condition may curtail this type of activity for me. Until then, I shall be enjoying to the fullest my little patch of dirt. 755 Joyce R. Gillming @ From where I stand at the bottom of the hill, the hot, dusty road rises slowly up the hillside. The red clay bank, higher at first than I am, gradually lowers to meet the road. To my right, the paved county road starts to soften in the heat, while on my left, the tree-studded ground slants up and away. As I begin to climb, I can catch only an occasional flash off the white eaves of the house that sits about halfway up the hill. First comes a small section of pasture grass, green and lush. Blue lupine and small yellow daisies are blooming now. Delicate pink flowers, almost unseen at first, dot the grass like tiny French knots sewed at random through a background of green cross-stitch. Earlier in the spring, this meadow was covered with slender buttercups and bluebells of Scotland. The grass and flowers end where clumps of live oak trees, alternating with an occasional black oak or pine, cover the hillside with deep shade. Nothing grows beneath the trees but insistent yearly shoots from old stumps and insidious poison oak. Mottled areas of shade are thrown across the road by the trees as I continue up the hill. In spite of these welcome patches, the hot sun burns my back before I reach the turn into our drive. Here, a large group of live oaks provides a pocket of shade and a resting place. The quiet hum from the highway on the hill in back of me is punctuated with bright, sharp calls from the birds down in Bailey's pasture. I rest awhile and watch the grazing cows slowly wander among the ruins of the pear orchard. Even the two new calves move quietly in the heat. The narrow stream bisecting the pasture is too far away to give any illusion of coolness. A slight breeze, composed of equal odors of hot pine needles, cows, and fragrant grass floats along the call of "Mom, oh, Mom." With a deep breath I rise and turn into our drive for the last stretch of my climb. A high bank is now on my right. It is in two levels. The lower level is overgrown with underbrush, tall weeds, and a few trees. The second level is faced with a retaining wall of old crossarms from utility poles. In pockets of dirt, pink ice plants bloom with a brilliant glow against the weathered wood. On top, a half circle of lawn frames the bright yellow and white house. And now I look back down the way I have come. My eyes follow the path the children have made through our woods. I raise my eyes and see the ridge of the hills. The spire shapes of the pines climb the hill in tiers and form a living wall of green to shelter our road, our woods, and our home.