[Vol53 | October 1966 | Page 724 | Special Feature | Strength Through Obedience Thomas | S. Monson]
The prophets, ancient and modern, have known the strength that comes through obedience. STRENGTH THROUGH OBEDIENCE Think of Nephi: "... I will go and do the things which the Lord hath commanded..."" (I Nephi 3:7). Or Alma's beautiful description of the strength possessed by the sons of Mosiah: _ they had waxed strong in a knowledge of the truth; for they were men of a sound understanding and they had searched the scriptures diligently, that they might know the word of God. But this is not all; they had given themselves to much prayer, and fasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation, and when they taught, they taught with power and authority of God (Alma 17:2, 8). President David O. McKay, in his opening message to the membership of the Church at a general conference (April 1957) stated very simply and yet so powerfully, "Keep the commandments of God." Such was the burden of our Savior's message, when he declared: "For all who will have a blessing at my hands shall abide the law which was appointed for that blessing, and the conditions thereof, as were instituted from before the foundation of the world" (D&C 1382:5). No one can criticize the Master's instruction. His very actions give credence to his words. He demonstrated genuine love of God by living the perfect life; by honoring the sacred mission that was his. Never was he haughty. Never was he puffed up with pride. Never was he disloyal. Ever was he humble. Ever was he sincere. Ever was he true. Though he was led up of the spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by that master of deceit, even the devil; though he was 


 physically weakened from fasting forty days and forty nights and was an hungered; yet when the evil one proffered Jesus the most alluring and tempting proposals, he gave to us a divine example of obedience by refusing to deviate from what he knew was right. When faced with the agony of Gethsemane, where he endured such pain that his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground, he exemplified the obedient Son by saying, "... Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done" (Luke 22:42). To Peter at Galilee, Jesus said, "Follow me." To Philip came the same instruction, "Follow me." And to the publican, Levi, who was sitting at receipt of customs, came the beckoning call, "Follow me."' Even to one who came running after him, one who had great possessions, came the _ words, "Follow me." And to you and to me that same voice, this same Jesus says, "Follow me." Are we willing to obey? Obedience is a hallmark of prophets, but it should be realized that this source of strength is available to us today. One who had learned well the lesson of obedience, who had found the 'fountain of truth," was a kind and sincere man of humble means and_ circumstances. He had _ joined the Church in Europe and, by diligently saving and sacrificing, had emigrated to North America — to a new land, a strange language, different customs, but the same Church under the leadership of the same Lord whom he trusted and obeyed. He became 726 the branch president of a little flock of struggling saints in a somewhat unfriendly city of tens of thousands. He followed the program of the Church, although members were few and _ tasks were many. He set an example for his branch membership that was truly Christ-like, and they responded with a love so rarely seen. He earned a living with his hands as a tradesman. His means were limited, but he always paid more than a tenth of his total earnings as tithing. He started a missionary fund in his little branch, and for months at a time he was the only contributor. When there were missionaries in his city he fathered and fed them, and they never left his house without some tangible donation to their work and welfare. Church members from far away who passed through his city and visited his branch always received his hospitality and the warmth of his spirit and went on their way knowing they had met an unusual man, one of the Lord's obedient servants. Those who presided over him received his profound respect and his extra special care. To him they were emissaries of the Lord; their wish was his command. He ministered to their physical comforts and was especially solicitous in his prayers, which were frequent, for their welfare. One Sabbath day, some visiting officials to his branch participated with him in no fewer than a dozen prayers in various meetings and visits to members. They left him at the day's end with a feeling of exhilaration and spiritual uplift which kept them joyous throughout a four-hour drive in wintry weather and which 'now, after many years, warms the spirit and quickens the heart in retrospection. Men of learning, men of experience sought out this humble, unlettered man of God and counted themselves fortunate if they could spend an hour with him. His appearance was ordinary, his English was halting and somewhat difficult to understand, his home was _ unpretentious. He didn't own a car or a television, he wrote no books and preached no polished sermons and did none of the things to which the world usually pays attention. Yet the faithful beat a path to his door. Why? Because they wished to drink at his "fountain of truth'; not so much what he said as what he did; not the substance of the sermons he preached, but the strength of the life he led. To know that a poor man consistently and cheerfully gave at least twice a tenth to the Lord gave one a clearer insight into STRENGTH THROUGH OBEDIENCE the true meaning of tithing. To see him minister to the hungered and take in the stranger made one know that he did it as he would do so to the Master. To pray with him and partake of his confidence of divine intercession was to experience a new medium of communication. Well could it be said he kept the first and great commandment, and the second which is like unto it, that his bowels were full of charity toward all men, that virtue' garnished his thoughts unceasingly and, consequently, his confidence waxed strong in the presence of God. This man had the glow of goodness and the radiance of righteousness. His strength came from obedience. The strength which we earnestly seek today to meet the challenges of a complex and changing world can be ours when, with fortitude and resolute courage, we stand and declare with Joshua, "... As for me and my house, we will serve the Lord" (Joshua 24:15).