[Vol53 | October 1966 | Page 756 | Poetry | The Blessing Catherine | B. Bowles]
THE BLESSING Catherine B. Bowles I know not if the blessing sought Will come in just the way I thought, But I leave my prayer with him alone Whose will is wiser than my own, Assured that he will grant the quest And send an answer far more blest. 756 Amy G. Bond Y ® While I trimmed my climbing rose and cleaned out the accumulation of dry leaves beneath it, I was reminded how like our lives it was. As I worked, I kept getting caught in the grasp of the seemingly harmless green tendrils. They seemed to reach out and get one thorn caught, making it possible for another to catch on to my clothing. Sometimes, the long ones would mysteriously wind around me, holding me fast. Only by determination and much struggle was I able to loosen their biting grasp. As soon as I loosened one, another seemed to reach out and grasp me. Before I was through, I was scratched and bleeding. The exposed parts of my body had been covered, I thought, well enough. It helped some, but even then some of the thorns would penetrate. I hate to think how scratched I would have been without the protection I had provided. So it is with our lives. There are beautiful and seemingly innocent-looking tendrils waiting to grasp us at every turn, and only by providing a shield, such as keeping the commandments of God to help protect and guard us from the thorns of life, can we hope to escape the forces waiting to tempt us. Sometimes, we are caught in a situation not of our making, but most of the time, if we are ever on guard, we can avoid many of the reaching tendrils awaiting us at every turn along the highway of life. Like the rosebush, many beautiful and enticing temptations hold danger, things are made to look so enticing that we feel that they can't be wrong. Thus our attitudes are changed before we realize it. Bad habits and evil-doing of any kind can ensnare us. We start by saying to ourselves, "Others are doing this and they seem to be enjoying themselves. They even seem to be getting along financially better than I am, and I am trying to do the things I should." Before long we have rationalized until we convince ourselves a habit isn't as bad or as wrong as we had been taught it was. By the time we have discovered we are wrong in our thinking, sometimes, it is almost too late or impossible to quit doing the things we have taken up. Again, we are caught with the green, harmless-looking tendrils. If we are strong in our beliefs and have the will power and determination, we can break loose, but not without feeling the prick of the thorns. From the rose bush I turned to some shrubs with dead wood and dry leaves in them. We also let dead wood and dry leaves hinder us just as they hinder and obliterate the growth and beauty of a shrub or flower bed. We must profit by our mistakes—and the dead wood in our lives—but not let them accumulate in our hearts and minds to the extent we are oblivious to all else that is good and fine in our lives. We must keep the weeds and dry leaves of disappointment, discontent with our lot, selfishness, greed, 'dishonesty and fault-finding from establishing a place in our hearts and minds to breed and grow to maturity. Only by doing these things can we find the true happiness for which we are all seeking. 757 @ Sean, my tiny grandson, must have been born to be a steeplejack. He is currently engaged in teaching his three-year-old brother how to ascend to heights already long accessible to him. Perhaps Sean climbed before he walked because he learned to creep in the bath tub with a few inches of water to assist him. He pulled himself forward with his elbows and forearms, at the same time drawing his knees up under him, then straightening them out in a manner that thrust him ahead—really a cross between worming, swimming, and creeping. This means of locomotion, quickly perfected, proved valuable not only on floors, flat beds, and_ other horizontal stretches, but on inclined and even perpendicular planes. If he is curious it is easy to climb