[Vol55 | May 1968 | Page 2 | Fiction | If Spring Be | Late Chapter]
[If Spring Be Late Chapter]

IN HEAVEN'S SPRING
Gay N. Blanchard

Somewhere heaven's spring has lost
A misty orchard of old apple trees
Wildly spilling fragrance
From its vagrant boughs.
Seeking solitude for prayer,
I chanced upon its pale pink banks
Piled recklessly upon the green,
All drenched in sweet spring rain—
And held suspended there
Before a white-iced mountain,
Palely mist-miraged
With one low strip of cloud.

Breathless I stood
As quietly
The hallowed hush enveloped me.
My solemn prayer that you would find
All joy, all truth, all peace of mind
Ascended with the lifting mist,
Potent with faith,
Irrevocable.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Gay N. Blanchard

First Prize Winner
The Relief Society
Poem Contest

18

One burning breath
My heart cried out in fear,
    Because I knew
That sorrow, searching, struggle, pain,
The price of such eternal gain,
Was also what I'd asked,
My dear, for you.

Then gently as the falling rain
Touched face and hair and wet-lashed eyes,
    A liquid cloak of peace distilled
And wrapped me round with surety
That you would be enfolded, too,
With peace, and will
    And God's own strength to see you through.
All senses merged into the essence of that silent scene.
    And there I knew
Whatever distance, time or space
Should intervene,
    Our spirits always would be tuned
    In fragile harmony . . .
And at some pale pink blossomed place
    We would again touch hands
    In heaven's spring.


Gay Nelson Blanchard, first Prize winner in the poem contest, is a newcomer to the pages of The Relief Society Magazine.

She describes her poem, "In Heaven's Spring," as an actual experience which moved her so deeply that she had to put it on paper. "This is the way most of my poetry is inspired," she relates. "Then comes the hard work."

Mrs. Blanchard is the wife of Daren Blanchard, Cottonwood, Utah. They have six children, four daughters and two sons. The eldest son is serving a mission in New Zealand.

Sister Blanchard says that she is grateful and honored to have been chosen a winner in the contest. Her first published poem received an award in a college poetry contest. She has also written two musical plays in collaboration with her sister and a cousin, and is currently working on a book of songs for children.

Her writing is influenced and inspired by her lovely family and her many friends, and by her appreciation of beauty instilled in her by her parents. Her grandmother, Amanda Bagley, was instrumental in the founding of the original Cottonwood Maternity Hospital.

Sister Blanchard has a strong testimony of the gospel, a keen awareness of God's detailed care in arranging this fascinating world, and a fervent appreciation for his love and patience.

19

ONE GOLD MORNING
Clara Laster

I That morning when I felt the sheet-metal
Season move over me like a half breath,
Rushing moth-wing thoughts into turning
A spring green,
I shouted, "But there are still oily clouds
And white water standing hard against
The morning;
Icy patches of winter to suck my steamy breath
Where I walk through low meadows.
Mountains facing me, blue in their bones,
Brimming spider webs of stone
Like frozen statues caught in cement."
Silent as the core of snowflakes falling,
God spread his creation before me.
Earth and aeons spoke a language
Of work and trust.
That morning, I found my soul's
Limpid-longings.

II There in that place, that hour,
We found a marble pool piercing the frigid
Land like a silver dove in a cove of agate.
It beckoned with the speech of Law.

[PHOTOGRAPH]

Clara Laster

Second Prize Winner
The Relief Society
Poem Contest

20

Nerves and skin surrendered
As I cried, "Baptize me now. So I, too,
Can brush shadows from the teeth of time,
Until with faith our world
Will shine."

III Standing there where sacred moments
Had burned with the fires of birth,
I stood, sharpened against the wind
And water, viewing the images
Of the smoken word, spreading
Upward, outward, inward,
Endless and spaceless,
Yet centered enough to fit into one
Small capsule,
Love.

IV That morning when we left the heaven place,
Still wet with willowy wings of faith,
I was content.
And as the sun of noon galloped in
To stop the hours in print,
I walked away and knew
The strength of steel that now was mine,
Would be a binding thing.
I would not forget that it was
First tasted
On a morning tucked behind the curve
Of a golden winter.

Clara Laster was born in Alabama, the last of nine children. Her literary career began after she married and settled in Oklahoma. She has had over 500 items published, including appearances in The Relief Society Magazine and the Improvement Era. She is a first-time winner in the Relief Society Poetry Contest. Her book of love poems, "House on Halfway Hill," won a publication award and will be published by South and West, Inc., in 1968.

Recently, she has been appointed to the staff of South and West Inc. and will serve in 1968 as award book publication chairman. She will also be editor of their literary magazine, The Tulsa Poetry Quarterly. She is also regional vice-president of the Oklahoma Poetry Society, chairman of Tulsa Poets, belongs to many writing groups, and won awards in ten contests in 1967.

Her daughter and son are married and live in Tulsa and she has three grandchildren. She is stake cultural refinement leader and the teacher training instructor in Sunday School.

21
