Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MRS. WILLIE CLAY KEYES of Salt Lake City has collected pennies amounting to more than $1100.00 for starving Chinese babies. She has received, from China, a hand-printed and colored "Award of Recognition" signed by Madame Chiang Kai-shek. JOSEPHINE SHAW LOWELL was born 101 years ago in December. A Civil War widow at twenty, she devoted her life to improving conditions in poorhouses, jails, reformatories, and public hospitals, especially those for women and children. Seeing men work fifteen hours a day for $6. Co per week turned her attention to emancipating labor. HE vast youth movement in Russia is directed by 32-year-old Madame Olga Petronova, former teacher in the University of Moscow. Mother of one child, she has adopted seven others. She has a master's degree in both economics and science. NOTEWORTHY books; Fiction: A Haunted House and Other Stories, by the late Virginia Woolf —sensitive, imaginative art; The Leaning Tower and Other Stories, Katherine Anne Porter, artist of deftness and finesse, highly literary; Green Dolphin Street, Elizabeth Goudge, the novel that won the Metro - Goldwyn - Mayer $125,000 prize. Non-fiction: Speaking of Jane Austen, Sheila Kaye-Smith and G. B. Stern. Two brilliant English women novelists discuss their favorite English woman novelist; Anna and the King of Siam, Margaret Landon, fascinating story of a Victorian English governess who taught the King of Siam's sixty-seven children, especially the Prince who became the next king. For young people: Pigeon Heroes, Marion Cothren; No Room, Rose Dobbs; Pierre Keeps Watch, Maria Gleit—the contribution of a fourteen-year-old shepherd boy to the French Underground; fictional biographies of musicians by Madeleine Goss: Beethoven, Master Musician; Deep Flowing Brook (Bach); Unfinished Symphony (Schubert); Brahms the Master, by Goss in collaboration with R. H. Schauffler, (especially readable). For younger children: The Flower Drum Book and Other Chinese Songs; Cherry Stones, Eleanor Fargeon (poetry); Then There Were Five, a Melendy family story by Elizabeth Enright, excellent; Young Men of the House, Mabel Leigh Hunt (a nine-year-old boy's responsibilities when father goes to war). MARY CRAIG McGEACHY, formerly of the British Embassy in Washington, is now chief of the welfare. Division of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration. Page 703 

VOL 31 DECEMBER 1944 NO. 12 A Cry of Repentance Lift your Voice and Spare not. Call upon the Nations to repent, both old and young, both bond and free, Saying: Prepare Yourselves for the great day of the Lord;. (Doc. And Coy, 43:20), THE 115th semi-annual general conference, held last October was termed by one of the Church leaders ?a cry of repentance.? As such, the message of the conference, it was estimated, reached perhaps millions of listeners. What a contrast to that cry of repentance voiced by John the Baptist over 1900 years ago, previous to the beginning of Christ's ministry, when, in reply to the Jews who sent men to enquire who he was, he replied, "I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight."
That cry of repentance came from a lone man out of a wilderness, the present cry of repentance came in the strength of the Church, from chosen servants of the Lord in this day, and sounded in the ears of a multitude of people; and yet, the fundamental proof of the efficacy of its plea will be established by the same words as those uttered long ago by John, "Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance." Though the cry today is broadcast to millions in place of the hundreds of an earlier time, though the world has progressed phenomenally in the field of science so that a modern invention has enabled the cry to be heard by the world, no invention has been discovered by which to prepare the hearts of men for the message; and still, to prove oneself a follower of Christ, one's heart must accept the seeds of repentance and nurture them, so that he may bring forth fruits worthy of repentance.
Though the world may, as its past history has demonstrated, again turn a deaf ear to the pleading of Church leaders, the heart of every true Latter-day Saint will accept the gospel of repentance?the key of which was restored to the earth by that same John the Baptist when he conferred the Priesthood of Aaron on the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, in 1820.
In the midst of the widespread evil and sin rampant in the world today, as expressed at this last conference, Latter-day Saint parents will teach to their children the doctrine of repentance, and, as individuals, they will practice this doctrine. When the inspired leaders of this Church, noble, God-fearing, and righteous men, voice a cry of repentance, Church members heed the cry and, understanding the requisites of true repentance, prepare themselves for the great day of the Lord. M.C.S.
Page 704 Notes TO THE FIELD
Collections by Visiting Teachers Discontinued
THE September issue of the Magazine carried the recommendation of the General Board, which was approved by the First Presidency and the Presiding Bishopric, that visiting teachers should no longer collect contributions from ward members for either the charity or general funds of the Society, effective for the month of October 1944 and thereafter. Since that time some contributions have continued to come in through the visiting teachers because all members were not aware of the change in procedure. Both Relief Society officers and members are reminded that the revised visiting teachers' report book and ward Relief Society record book going into use in January 1945, will have no space for showing receipt of donations to the visiting teachers. It is expected that all members will have become acquainted with the new regulation by that time.
Inasmuch as bishops are now responsible for all expenses incident to assisting those in need, members who continue to offer donations to the Relief Society may be reminded that contributions for the charitable purposes of the Church should be made to the bishop in the form of fast offerings and donations of cash or labor in the interest of the Church Welfare Plan.
The September Magazine also indicates that free-will offerings might be made direct to the officers but this relates to special contributions?not to the donations ordinarily given to the visiting teachers.
For full explanation of the discontinuance of collections by visiting teachers, readers are referred to the Magazine for September 1944, page 511.
Additional Reference for January Fifth-Tuesday Meeting
IN preparing the program for the January fifth-Tuesday meeting (recommended in the Magazine for November, page 632), wards will find helpful, current information and excellent visual aids in the following publication: The Alcohol Problem, which may be ordered from the National Forum, Chicago, Ill., price 75 cents postpaid. Page 705 FORWARD, WITHOUT FEAR Dorothy Clapp Robinson Patty Lou Turner had been left to take care of Johanna while the other girls and Niels went to find work. Patty Lou could not understand why Matilda Lewis did so much for them when Ann Kristin had sent her husband to jail. Perhaps Matilda did not fully understand herself. The girls needed a mother, and Jouanna, who was very ill, needed a nurse, and so she gave help, for it was part of the new gospel she had adopted. All they could do for Johanna did not seem to help. Helga and Ann Kristin had sold practically all their lovely things to get help for her and to keep them all eating. Patty Lou didn't try to work; and Niels always fought. Helga often found washings or sewing to do that brought a little food into their camp. Ann Knstin who had a withered hand because of infection from a sliver, had tried unsuccessfully to find work. On her way home she met Matt Lewss, and before they reached camp they were quarreling. Matt did not realize he was jealous over TOM BEDLOE. Patty Lou demanded to know where Kristin got so much food. Before she could answer, they saw two officers coming up the path. Matt warned the girls not to talk. CHAPTER V WATCH your words," Matt cautioned the girls as he saw the two officers approaching. The two men came into the clearing. Matt stood in their way defying them to come closer. "Howdy," he said shortly, as they stopped before him. "I'm Simmons," the first one said, showing his badge. "I've been here before. Remember?" "T am not likely to forget," Matt answered. "Whom do you want this time?" Page 706 Jones, the deputy, seemed to think that a joke. He laughed uproariously. "We want that big Swede that lives here." "Who said a Swede lived here?" Matt stalled. He hoped their voices would reach Niels and Jake. "Come on, come on," Simmons demanded, "we know he lives here. Which one of these doghouses is his?" He started toward the lean to, but Matt stopped him. "Don't go inside. There is a sick woman there and she can't stand excitement. Tell me what you want of Niels and we will try to find him; but don't go in there." Jones spat tobacco juice, just missing Matt's shoe. At the look that came into Matt's eyes, he turned quickly to the three frightened girls. "He's saying that just to keep us out. You Mormons stick like mustard plasters to each other. We ought to run him in for obstructing the law." "I wouldn't advise you to try it," Matt cautioned. "Keep still, Jones." Simmons turned to Matt. "I am not here to stir up trouble, but I am going to have that Swede. If you will bring 'him out, I won't go in. He kicked up a ruckus at the wharf and did bodily injury?." "Since when have you arrested men for fighting? You would have your jail full in one day." Simmon's anger flared. "For a man in your position it would pay you to keep a civil tongue in your head. This Swede stole a sack of FORWARD, WITHOUT FEAR food from one of the workmen. I have the warrant all night." Helga stepped toward them. "Niels doesn't steal," she told them indignantly. At first sight of the officers, Ann Kristin had felt a suffocating weight settle over her. Since leaving Loftshammar they had known, more suffering and privation than She had dreamed existed. Now it was here again. If they took Niels away now, it would kill Johanna. The men would not listen to reason. Nor, once arrested, would Niels stand any chance of a fair trial. Only something drastic would stop them. She went to stand before Simmons. Her bonnet fell back. "Niels did not steal that food." Jones whistled. "I have heard that the Mormons have collected all the good-looking women in the country. But I didn't believe it." Matt snatched Kristin and thrust her behind him. Even Simmons was disgusted. "Lay off that talk, Jones. I am sorry." He spoke to Ann Kristin, "Orders are orders." "But he didn't steal the food." She set her chin defiantly and looked at Matt first. Then back to Simmons. "He didn't steal the food because I did." "Don't be ridiculous." barked at her. "But I did. So he will have to take me." The officer scowled. "If you are trying to protect that Swede?." "We were all hungry," she said simply. "I took it from?." "From where?" Matt demanded. "Do you know?" He was still holding arm. 707 "You can tell she is lying." "I am half inclined to believe she is, but I'll have to take her along until I find out." "Then Niels may go free? May stay here with Johanna?" "No. [ll have to take him along, too." "But," Ann Kristin cried, "You said?that is, I thought?." Jake coming from behind the shack interrupted. He was breathing hard, and one hand caressed a rising welt on his chin. "Don't you believe her, Officer." He scowled at Ann Kristin. "She's just trying to shield her no-account brother. The truth ain't in any of them." "Why you?!" Patty Lou seized the basket of food and would have hurled it at his head, but Helga caught her arm. Jake looked at her. "Watch her," he advised. "Who are you?" Simmons demanded. 'Now listen here," Jake's voice rose belligerently. "No one is calling me a Mormon, not even you. I'm not afraid of your badges. Go ahead and call me one. Go ahead and try it." He doubled his fists and started toward Jenkins. "Don't get your shirt off. I didn't call you a Mormon. I reckon you're not. I never yet heard one deny it. We are after that Swede. Hansen. Did you see him?" "Course I seen him. He I'd a had him, too, if you-all hadn't been so loud-mouthed. He high-tailed it into the timber." He waved his hand vaguely. "He give me a nasty crack and got away. "Who are you?" Simmons demanded again. "What are you doing here?" Jake's eyes were insolent. "I'm a hunter," he answered shortly. _ Jones eyed him suspiciously. "What kind of varmints do you hunt?" "Maybe I hunt wolves. Maybe I don't. I wouldn't advise you-all to be too inquisitive. I can take care of myself." "Come on," Simmons told his companion. "Let's get on his trail before he gets away." "But what about the gal?" Jones still had his eyes on Kristin. "She's lying. Come on. Coming?" He asked the last of Jake. Jake shook his head. "I do my hunting alone." The watchers held their breath, but Simmons was taking no chances. He went to the shelter and looked in. Jones peered over his shoulder. Helga forced her way ahead of them. Perhaps it was she, perhaps it was Johanna's white, frightened face that turned them back. They went crashing through the underbrush beyond. When the sound of their going had died, Matt turned and offered his hand to Jake. Before either of them could speak, Patty Lou cried out: "Jake Nichols, you low-down, no account, good-for-nothing. You can tote yourself away from here for good." Matt smiled at her fury. "Thanks, Jake. That was quick thinking. Why do you always help us when you are not one of us?" "What's that got to do with it? Folks is folks, and brother or no, the trick worked." Patty Lou gazed open-mouthed. When the full import of their words came to her, she began to cry. Jake patted her comfortably. "Now, now, Honey. Yourself. He is safe." "I?I thought you-all was a?," a mild sob muffled her words. They all smiled at her vehemence, and Ann Kristin asked, "Where did he go, Jake?" "No place where they will find him. Come on, Patty. Dry your eyes. 'They're getting red and you all will look like a hoot owl with red rings around your eyes." Patty Lou straightened abruptly. "If you-all don't like the looks of me?." "Where's your manners?" he chided. "I have been traveling all day without a bite." Patty looked at him in amazement. " 'Cause you-all's hungry don't mean you can eat around here, but for once we got food enough for a meal." She turned to Ann Kristin. "Did you-all really steal that food, or did Mister Bedloe give you the money to buy it?" "Don't be absurd." Matt spoke harshly. "You know very well she didn't do either." He became conscious of the fact that he was still holding Kristin's arm. He dropped it abruptly. "Tl be going along." "No, no,' ' Helga cried, "you must eat with us, "Do," Jake urged, women fuss me." Helga watched over Johanna, explaining as gently as she could the meaning of what had happened; but she managed also to help with the preparations for the meal. Don't fret "too many HEY sat around a rudely constructed table, and ate sparingly, but talked much. Matt told of  FORWARD, WITHOUT FEAR conditions in Nauvoo and his fears for the future. Jake urged him to get a job driving freight teams. Helga rose repeatedly to watch over Johanna and the baby. Patty Lou more than the others enjoyed her food. She was like a child with a bag of candy. In the midst of Jake's story of an Indian attack, she broke in with, "Kristie. Where did you-all get this food?" _ The second time she asked it, Ann Kristin answered shortly, "I bought it in Montrose with money." "Did Mister Bedloe give you the money?" "No." Her eyes darkened with indignation. "Where did you-all get it then? You-all didn't have any money when you left here this morning." The issue could no longer be ignored. They all knew she'd had no money when she left that morning. She had said nothing about working. She thought, they all believe Tom gave it to me. They think I would take it from him. Angry tears blinded her. They could think that of her! She rose hurriedly to go inside, but as she turned Helga caught hold of her shrunken hand. "Ann Kristin. Where is mother's ring?" Kristin tried to put her hand behind her back, but Helga held it firm. 'There was a band of white around her finger where the massive ring had been. They were all watching. She tossed her head defiantly. "It was mine, wanted." "Ann Kristin. Not sure-enough." Patty Lou was horrified. "It had I could sell it if I 709 been in your family over a hundred years." "Oh, how could you?" Helga demanded. "How could you?" Ann Kristin could no longer hold her tears, but she ignored them. Her eyes asked her sister's forgiveness. "I was desperate. I could not get work." "How much did you get?" Patty Lou pursued the subject relentlessly. "How much?" Helga echoed. "Five dollars. He~." Matt half rose, then slowly sat down again. Jake swore. "Why the dirty copperhead. It was worth, at the least, a hundred dollars in gold." "Who got it, Ann Kristin?" Matt asked quietly. At the new note in his voice, she met his eyes. "The gambler-trader, Wilkins, who was on the boat with us. He has a shop at Montrose. It was all right," she added quickly. "I asked him to buy it." "T can't see through it." Jake was plainly puzzled. ""Why should Niels be arrested for stealing food if none was stolen." "There might have been. There is always. A gang of boys playing around the wharf. One of them might have taken it. And Niels was in trouble anyway. The more things they can pin on us the better they like it. It is all part of their scheme to make us get out." Patty Lou was still staring at Ann Kristin. "Why did you-all do it? You sold your ring and bought grits for me. Why?" "You were hungry, too." "I was mighty hungry for some back-home food. I have eaten so many greens and seeds my skin is turning green." 710 Ann Kristin sat back down. "It has been sold, so let's forget it." Her tone put a period on the conversation. THEY ate in silence for a few moments, then Patty Lou spoke abruptly. "T know who took your money out of your trunk." "Patty!" Helga cried "How could you?" "Remember your failing, Young-?un," Jake cautioned. "Don't start something you can't finish." "Let her tell." Matt had been watching the girl's face. He had sensed the struggle going on in her mind, and suddenly he remembered many hints that had puzzled him. "You bother me, Jake. I'll tell anyhow. Mister Tom Bedloe took your money." For a moment they all stared in stunned unbelief. 'Then Helga asked: "How could he? He did not know we had the money." "He did know about it. Told him herself." Ann Kristin was cold with fury. "Why do you say such a thing, I have never told anyone?" "You-all told him," the girl persisted. "You and Helga were talking and you-all said you must go back to your cabin, you didn't want to leave your money alone. You-all said some other things, too." Slowly, memory came to Helga. "T remember that night. We had a long meeting and afterward we wanted to stay on deck and discuss the sermon we had heard. It was shortly after we left St. Louis." "I heard, and I know he heard. I saw the expression on his face. He sharply. Kris went directly to Wilkins and they 'talked a long time. They were talking about it, cause I heard words." Ann Kristin felt the last shred of her confidence slipping, and she fought to -hold it. Tom had involved her in the arrest of Elder Lewis; but he had explained that. She could not forgive him yet, but neither could she forgive Patty Lou for trying to incriminate him in anything so sinful. "That is very poor grounds for such an accusation," she told Patty coldly. "As much grounds as they had for accusing father," Matt reminded her. She could have reminded him she had put off her marriage with Tom Bedloe because of that; but she did not. "T know in my heart he did it," Patty reiterated soberly. "Unfortunately, knowing and proving are two different stories," Matt said, "and in this case we would not have the prejudice of the law with us." "You are being absurd," Kristin cried. "A man, even if he were that kind, would not steal from the girl he intended to marry. He would not unless he was past all honor. Besides, it was my money." "Ts that so?" Matt rose suddenly. "And he is my father. Maybe you are so innocent you don't know stealing that much money is grand larceny. Maybe you have forgotten he has been in that filthy jail for two months, waiting a trial that gets postponed because they know they haven't a real case against him. Maybe you don't know he isn't going to live through another month of it. Tell us the rest, Patty Lou." The girl had risen and gone to
stand in front of Ann Kristin. Her black eyes were snapping. Jake had
never been so proud of her. ?A man would not steal from his sweetheart unless he was past all honor you-all say. All right. I reckon you need more enlightening. On the way down the Ohio, Mister Thomas Bedloe made love to me, too. Only he didn't steal my money. I gave it to him." "You what?" Matt and Helga
barked the words at her. Ann Kristin stared coldly. ?He talked me out of it. I had just one hundred dollars by then. He said he would invest it and give
me back two hundred." ?Has he given any back?? Matt demanded. "No. He?," she looked around uncertainly, "I?d better not tell why." "Talk, and talk fast."
"He gave it to your father." Is that a guessing game, too?? Kristin wanted to know. "That is what Mister Bedloe told me. He said Elder Lewis needed it for the Jacobsen family. That's what he says, and he will pay it back if I will wait."
"But," Helga interrupted, "all the money given to the Jacobsens wasn't a hundred dollars, and we gave fifty. It was all we had beside the gold and securities in the box." "I thought Elder Lewis had kept it, but now I know he was lying. I
have known it a long time, but I wouldn't tell because Ann Kristin took him away from me." During all this, Jake had said nothing. Now he stepped before the
girl, his tall length towering above her. His voice was deceptively calm. "And you-all have had no money?" Patty Lou turned her head, but he jerked her about to face him, "What have you-all been doing all this time? Where did you get your keep?" Even Patty Lou's insouciance withered under his terrible anger. "You-all
stay right here. I am going after Mister Bedloe. I knew he was a snake all the time." Without a glance to the right or the left he strode off through the trees. Matt  hurried after him. Helga went inside the shelter. Facts were beginning to fall into a pattern. Kristin faced Patty Lou. "Was the trader, Wilkins, on the boat coming down the Ohio?" "Yes. Y-es." Patty Lou's eyes
opened wide with understanding, "and he is the one who bought your ring."
"I can't believe it. I just can't believe-." "Neither could I. He pretended
to be such a good saint." Black eyes looked into blue ones with complete
understanding. "It was you-all buying grits and pork that made me see."
Helga came quickly toward them. "Get Niels. Get Sister Lewis. Hurry.? Patty Lou ran, and fear gave wings to her feet. Ann Kristin followed Helga back to the bed. It was too late. Neither Sister Lewis, nor Niels, nor all the doctors in the world could help Johanna. She had already slipped into peace and comfort. As they stared, the baby at the foot of the bed whimpered softly. (To be continued)
"Notes from the Field" Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for ?Notes from the Field? appear in the Magazine for February 1944, Page 104, PARTIES AND SPECIAL PROGRAMS Portneuf Stake (Idaho) LERA C. MAUGHAN, stake Relief Society President, reports: "An outstanding event in our stake was an original pageant America, The Land of Promise Presented by our McCammon Ward on March 17, 1944. It was so beautiful and successful that it was Presented again for the stake membership by request, and was well attended. Inglewood Stake ( California ) THE 1943 narrative report from Josephine Prestwich, Relief Society president of this stake, included the following: "The stake board held their closing party for all Relief Society members of this stake on June 1. A potluck luncheon was served, with signed to bring certain foods. Stake board and cookies, and the clever decorations for the tables. The afternoon, a clever skit was presented to stimulate membership in Magazine sub The ward Relief Societies have in the war chest emergency drive, and have taken their turn at officiating at the Victory Houses, selling war bonds and Stamps." South Ogden Stake (Utah)BERNICE H. FLAMM, stake Relief
Society secretary-treasurer, sent an account of the short dramatization
"Opening the Gate Beautiful" which was prepared by Mary P. Lambert, and presented by officers and members of the Eighteenth Ward Relief Society at their
anniversary social, March 17, 1944. This dramatization of the first Relief Society meeting, and the ancient costumes worn, formed an appropriate and effective part of their program. The Relief Society colors, blue and gold, were used in both their decorations and their refreshments, which included a three-tier, blue-and-gold birthday cake." Oakland Stake (California) RUTH S. HILTON, president of this stake Relief Society, reports : "Ten of our fourteen wards held anniversary parties during March. Some were in the form of handkerchief
showers for the welfare program, one a miscellaneous shower for the same cause. However, all of the wards held very successful programs on Sunday evening, March 5. The four wards that did not hold regular parties considered this program their anniversary celebration. Participants in March 17 Dramatization, Eighteenth Ward Relief Society, South Ogden Stake, with blue and gold birthday cake surmounted by numerals indicating the 102nd .anniversary. Mary P. Lambert, who prepared the dramatization, is seated at extreme left. Mable Howey is president of this Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 713. The stake board remembered the occasion in the wards 'by attending parties and programs, and giving each enrolled member a bookmark in the form of a blue cardboard folder, attractively printed, and bearing the 102nd anniversary greetings of the stake board. Participants in March 17 Dramatization, Eighteenth Ward Relief Society, South Ogden Stake, with blue and gold birthday cake surmounted by numerals indicating the 102nd. Anniversary, Mary P. Lambert, who Prepared the dramatization, dent of this Society. The ward Programs of March 5 were all held in line with the instructions issued in the Magazine. Some of the wards worked in variations of the program. For instance, at Claremont Ward the thee was introduced by a short pageant. Four scenes passed between the half parted curtains while a leader gave the theme with beautiful amplifications or variations. The Berkeley Ward gave a pageant 'Charity Never Faileth' arranged by Helga Evans, ward Relief Society chorister. Sister Eyans used bits of verse from the Magazine, quotations from the Hand. Book, and timely suggestions, However, the highlight of their meeting was the excellent work done by their Singing Mothers under Sister Evans' is seated at extreme left. Characters were beautifully costumed to represent the Spirit of Relief Society, Sewing Service, Welfare, Home | Disaster and War Relief, Nurses, education, also Emma Smith and Eliza R. Snow." Rigby Stake (Idaho) STELLA F, BROSSARD, secretary-treasurer of Rigby Stake Relief Society sent the following detailed account of the luncheon and program which was held in the Rigby First Ward on March 15: "The long T-shaped luncheon table, with a white cover and blue and gold decorations, was an attractive piece of art. In the center was a 'Wheel of Progress' and each yellow spoke, lettered in blue, represented some phase of Relief Society work. Blue vases of yellow jonquils and streamers of gold and blue ribbon completed the attractive table. The favors were miniature wheels in Relief Society colors with the spokes bearing names of the ward officers. Inside was an inspirational Cast of play, course in Literature of the Bible, directed by Amy Fullmer Hawker, literature class leader. Relief Society. Ward Society, presided at the luncheon and program, and June Tolley acted as master of ceremonies. The luncheon was supervised by Grace Fisher and Arberella Adams. 'The guests of honor were seven pioneer women, the oldest being Martha Ballantyne, 87 years of age. Stake board members were also guests. Each honored guest and executive officer was presented with a corsage. A feature of the interesting program was a character song in costume by Sally Agnes Cordon, now 85 years of age, who, when this ward Relief | Society was organized, in 1886, served as its first president. She is still active in Relief Society work and also does Red Cross work." Union Stake (Oregon) ILDRED KOFFORD, president of the Union Ward Relief Society of this stake, reports that the annual day program was attended by 45 members. "The program began with the reading of the message from the First Presidency of the Church which appears in A Centenary of Relief Society, followed by a part of the message to Relief Society members The play was later repeated for the entire stake. "The Dream of Queen Esther'? Which was presented by the Menan Ward Relief Society, Rigby Stake, in 1943, at the close of the first season's lessons in the current three-year It was Emily Hart is president of this ward from the General Board of Relief Society. After a candle-lighting ceremony by ward officers, short biographical sketches were given of the four past presidents of this ward Relief Society still living ins the ward. These past presidents and members who had been absent on account of illness were the guests of honor, and were presented with boutonnieres tied with ribbon in the Relief Society colors, blue and gold." South Los Angeles Stake (Calif. ) '?7N commemoration of the 102nd birthday of the Relief Society on March 17th, the South Los Angeles Stake Relief Society presented its Singing Mothers in the sacred cantata 'Resurrection Morning' by B. Cecil Gates. "Immediately preceding the cantata, the Alhambra Ward String Trio entertained with a special concert of lovely and inspirational numbers. "A capacity crowd of twelve hundred was in attendance, and gave evidence of being sincerely pleased with the efforts made to increase music appreciation in the stake.  NOTES FROM THE FIELD 715 Members attending the annual day program of the Union Ward Relief Society, Union Stake. Seated in front, from left to right, are Evelyn Anderson, secretary; Wilmerth Ward, counselor; and Mildred Kofford, president. "The Singing Mothers were effectively supported by the combined artistry of Lucille Peal at the piano and Marie Chatwin at the organ, but the major share of the credit for the standard achieved, for the sensitive and sympathetic interpretation, must go to the conductor, Mabel H. Rice. She maintained the dignity and beauty of the resurrection theme throughout the entire rendition of the cantata. "The pageantry, created and directed by Lillian Collings, was rich and colorful, and under her inspirational guidance became a close-knit and integral part of the music, blending with and augmenting every mood. "Working with Sister Collings was Audrey Redding, dance director, who approached perfection in her lovely creative dance "The Return of Spring?' ?During the interval suggested by the composer, LaVerd Lillywhite read the composition of Erma Singing Mothers, supporting cast, and officers of the South Los Angeles Stake Relief Society who presented Gates' cantata "Resurrection Morning" in commemoration of the 102nd anniversary of Relief Society, March 17, 1944.  Stake Relief Society presidents of the Salt Lake Region who were entertained April 15, 1944, at a luncheon in the General Board Room in the Bishop's Building by the chairman of this group and her two assistants, Ella P. Bennion, Alice B. Steinicke, and Lucy G. Godfrey. The Region was divided March 25, 1944, into the Salt Lake and Jordan Valley Regions, and the committee held this final get-together for all present and former stake Relief Society presidents with whom they had been associated during the year since their appointment as leaders of the group. The table was tastefully decorated with spring daffodils and each guest received a daffodil corsage tied with blue ribbon. After the luncheon an interesting and inspirational half-hour was spent in listening to the presidents recount their reactions when called to serve in this capacity. Special guests were General President Amy Brown Lyman and General Secretary-Treasurer Vera W. Pohlman, who also spoke. Those present from left to right, were: Seated?Ella P. Bennion, president of Oquirrh Stake Relief Society and chairman of the group, who now serves as chairman of Relief Society presidents of the new Jordan Valley Region; Amy Brown Lyman, Vera W. Pohlman, Alice B. Steinicke, president of Ensign Stake Relief Society, who now serves as chairman of Relief Society presidents of the present Salt Lake Region; Maud F. Hanks, president of Salt Lake Stake; Emma R. Hanks, president of Tooele Stake; Carrie Wrathall, president of Grantsville Stake; Emma G. Clayton, former president of Bonneville Stake; Diana R. Lambert, president of Liberty Stake; Emma G. Phillips, former president of Liberty Stake; Standing? Ella R. Croxford, president of Cottonwood Stake; Zora C. Paulson, former president of Highland Stake; Violet W. Duncan, president of Sugar House Stake; Cassandra D. Bailey, president of Grant Stake; Amy B. Towler, recently released president of Wells Stake; Lucile B. Madsen, president of Big Cottonwood Stake; Lucy B. Godfrey, president of East Jordan Stake; Minnie Ballard, president of Mt. Jordan Stake; Vera Allen, president of Pioneer Stake; Lucena R. Card, former president of Ensign Stake; Winnie O. Lavin, recently released president of South Salt Lake Stake; Lillie Adams, president of Emigration Stake; Leona G. Holbrook, president of Bonneville Stake; Vauna S. Jacobsen, president of Granite Stake; Elizabeth H. Hogan, president South Davis Stake; Agnes M. Bolto, former president of Granite Stake now member of General Board; Effie Webster, president of North Davis Stake. Unable to attend were: Reka H. Cummings, president of Highland Stake; Blanch Stoddard, president of Park Stake; Sarah N. Twitchell, president of Riverside Stake; Evelyn Neilsen, president of West Jordan Stake. Petereit, combining the theme of the following account which was spring and the resurrection with the submitted by the Pleasant View testimony of Nephi to his brethren Ward Relief Society officers, Milon the resurrection. Dred R. Cragun, president; Grace M. "Mention must be made, too, of Williams and Amelia Dickamore, the dramatic effects achieved by counselors; and Helen B. Perry, sec James Eddards and Leo Richards in their lighting and stage setting, and "The Pleasant View Ward Relief of the beautiful costumes created by Society entertained at a delightful Sister June Hibbert." Ben Lommand Stake (Utah) Ora Macfarlane, president of the stake Relief Society, sent the following account mothers - and - daughters evening, Tuesday, June 12, 1944. Each month Ben Lomond Stake (Utah) Ora MACFARLANE, president of this stake Relief Society, sent the following account which was submitted by the Pleasant View Ward Relief Society officers, Mildred M. Cragun, president; Grace M. Williams and Amelia Dickamore, counselors; and Helen B. Perry, sec-
"The Pleasant View Ward Relief Society entertained at a delightful mothers - and - daughters evening, Tuesday, June 12, 1944. Each mother came accompanied by her lovely daughters. The sisters who were less fortunate borrowed a daughter, making it possible for every member and every daughter within our ward to enjoy this party with us. NOTES FROM THE FIELD Relief Society Anniversary Dinner, March 17, 1944, Washington Terrace Branch, Weber Stake. About 200 people were served. This new Relief Society, which had been organized just six months on that date, is officered by Maud Buttars, President; Edna Fuhriman and Alley Taylor, counselors; Alois Glenn, Secretary-treasurer. "A program, ~ featuring _ instrumental and vocal numbers and readings, followed by game mixers, and Prizes, made for an evening where mothers and daughters mingled together as one happy group. "The hall was decorated with pink and white peonies. An attractive "Small vases of pink rosebuds and tiny white: shasta daisies, symbolizing the beauty and purity of our Mormon girls, formed the center. Piece for each of the twenty-four tables, which completely filled our hall. "Sisters Myrtle Barker, Emma Unander and Susanah Johns of the stake board were our special guests. "Each year our mothers-and daughters Party is looked forward to with great anticipation. It is a joy to entertain our daughters, for the daughters of today will be the Relief Society members of tomorrow," is party was attended by 100 mothers and daughters from the 86 families in the ward. Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) HULDA M. LYNN, president of Big Horn Stake Relief Society, wrote as follows of the summer musicale presented August 29, 1043, which was enthusiastically received by a packed house: "The participants and all stake board members were in formal dress, the stage was banked with gladioli and roses, and a large American flag, made entirely of electric light bulbs, hung high in the background. "Some 75 Singing Mothers, from various wards in the stake, participated. The combined ward choruses were directed by Carma Johnson and accompanied by Gwen Kocher. Haus and Veoma Stahle. Singing Mothers' groups from several of the wards also presented separate numbers. Following the Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag, a silent tribute was paid to the boys in service, and their mothers and wives. "This was a very lovely and worthwhile project, and we hope to make it an annual affair." Relief Society Singing Mothers of Midvale First Ward, East Jordan Stake Organized in 1936, this chorus now has 25 members, and from its beginning has been directed by Connie T. Matthews, chorister, assisted by Vera Brown, organist. This chorus meets weekly for practice, socially every two months, and furnishes musical numbers twice monthly for sacrament meetings. Pocatello Stake (Idaho) "THE following report was submitted by Roxie Thompson, counselor in the Pocatello Fourth Ward Relief Society "On April 9, 1944, the very beautiful and impressive cantata 'Resurrection Morning' by B. Cecil Gates, was presented by the Pocatello Fourth Ward Relief Society chorus. Front row: Margaret Dalton, Relief Society Singing Mothers, Fourth Ward. Pocatello Stake. From left to right, front soloist; Arvilla Croshaw, organist; Emma Puckett, secretary; Minnie Warren, counselor; Elizabeth Dunn, president; Roxie Thompson, counselor; Lucille Denkers, chorister; and Amy Hansen, chorus member. Chorus members in the second row are: Doris Jensen, Louise Ashton, Lois Hall, Zina Harper, Isabell Curl, Nellie Judy, Stella Waters, Esther Johnson. Third row: Beatrice Call, Myrtle Taggart, Wilmetta Rufenacht, Mary Packer, Zula Richardson, Vida Howell, Lula Rupp. This presentation was sponsored by our Relief Society officers, Elizabeth Dunn, Minnie Warren, Roxie Thompson, and Emma Puckett. It was directed by Lucille Denkers, chorister of the group, assisted by Arvilla Croshaw, organist. "Two violinists, Arnold Lintleman and David Thomas, contributed a great deal by their lovely playing, and the readers, Lydia Egbert and Mildren Sorensen, also added charm and grace to the occasion. "The beautiful lighting effects were carried out under the supervision of Sidney Heath and William Denkers. "A large audience, 381 in all, attended the cantata." Home Lighting Claire P. Dorius Good lighting should prevent or reduce defective vision and unnecessary waste of human resources??W. E. Barrows, Light, Photometry and Illuminating Engineering. MERE lighting of the home is not enough. Comfortable vision is what counts. Vision is a three-way operation. It takes an eye, an object, and light. When the light illuminates the object, that is good; when the light shines in the eye, that is not desirable. Light in the eye is glare; light on the object you're looking at is illumination. The eye sees an object by means of the light which it reflects. Good lighting requires freedom from glare, the elimination of shadows, and the avoidance of a sharp contrast between lighted objects and their background. The darker the paint or paper in your rooms the more light you need for good vision. Light walls and woodwork are highly recommended. Except in very gloomy weather, the home depends upon light from outside during the day. How adequate this light is would seem to be -determined by the number of windows. Glass, however, may absorb or reflect as much as thirty-five per cent of the light that falls upon it. The thickness of the glass does not seem to have much effect, but the smoothness does. Fifteen to twenty per cent of the total light may be absorbed by dirt on the glass, and in very smoky localities this may amount to as high as twenty-five to fifty per cent. Glass, in spite of the fact that it reduces the available light, plays an important part in diffusing the light, and so gives more illumination at the farther side of the room than would be obtained if no glass were there. Shades and draperies also greatly influence the amount of daylight which is available in a room. Randall and Martin found that drawing the roller shade so the upper half of the window is covered cuts sixty per cent of the daylight, but only fourteen per cent is lost when the shade is restricted to the upper fifth. A fly screen covering the whole window reduces the available daylight fifty per cent, but not more than fifteen per cent when the screen is only over the lower half. Painting the screen to prevent rusting diminishes the light further. Bronze or copper screens which do not require painting are preferable. Windows are regarded as one of the most satisfactory means of decorating a room. The use of curtains and draperies, however, may cut off as much as seventy-five per cent of the light. Removing the valance may double the available daylight at the farther side of the room. Heavy draperies and curtains increase the shadow and tend to produce a spotty condition which may result in glare, while a clean window and very thin curtain materials diffuse the light and soften the shadows. Page 719 720 In using draperies, one should consider the fact that a window area equivalent to one-fourth of the floor area is desirable. Recent use of glass bricks for wall construction has improved daytime lighting in the home. An adequate wiring system in the home should provide comfortable lighting conveniently controlled, with a sufficient number of well placed outlets to allow for satisfactory connections of portable fixtures and appliances. The type and quality of the wiring installations should be regulated by the Electrical Code of National Board of Fire Underwriters. A central light in the kitchen in an opal globe, hung close to the ceiling, illuminates all parts of the room equally. In addition, extra light Should be provided above the sink and working surfaces, so one will not have to stand in her own shadow. A well-lighted kitchen increases interest in the task and lessens fatigue. In the bedroom, a central light for general illumination, floor lamp for a special location, and boudoir lamps on either side of the dresser meet the useful needs. Boudoir lamps should be about fifteen inches tall in order to throw the light on the face rather than on the mirror. Light for reading in bed is certainly a comfort and a convenience. It should be high enough to give a wide circle of light on the book or magazine. A night light which uses a 7-watt bulb, may be plugged into an outlet near the floor in bedrooms or in halls, to cut down the danger of broken toes or cracked shins. Lights in the bathroom should be placed above or on either side of the mirror to illuminate both sides of the face equally. Eyesight conservation is extremely valuable. Sight is the only one of the senses which is dependent upon an outside agency for its functioning. Twenty per cent of elementary school children have faulty eyesight. When the children have grown to college age the percentage has doubled, and forty per cent do not see normally. Our home lighting system should provide sufficient light conveniently located to supply all needs without eye strain. This is about two watts of light per square foot of floor area. "Light is cheaper than vision." All lights should be properly shaded?shades deep enough to conceal the lamp, broad enough to give a wide circle of light, white-lined to reflect light well. Shades have a fourfold function. They protect the eyes, direct the light, soften shadows, and serve to decorate. Lamps and fixtures should be kept clean. Dust accumulating over months will absorb as much as fifty per cent of the light otherwise available. 'The deposit of dust is so gradual that a person may not be conscious of the dimming until it becomes very bad. Water is cheaper than watts. References "Some Light on Lighting," Consumers' Guide, Vol. 7, No. 4, pp. 12-13, November 1940. PEET AND Sater, Household Equipment, second edition, John Wiley & Sons, New York. America's Housekeeping Book, Chapter 29, Pp. 503. NDE PARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 6?The Missouri Period Dr. H. Wayne Driggs Objective: To study the main events in Missouri that led up to and followed the location of the City of Zion and the central gathering place of the saints. For Tuesday, March 6, 1945 PARALLEL with the rise of the Church in Kirtland was the development of its progress in Missouri. 'The far reaching command to go "to the borders by the Lamanites' (Doc. And Cov. 28:9), had sent, within the first year of the Church's organization, four of its leading elders?Oliver Cowdery, Peter Whitmer Jr., Parley P. Pratt, and Ziba Peterson?hundreds of miles away from their eastern homes. The dawn of the new year 1831 found these men marooned near St. Louis owing to the deep drifts of snow; but when the storm abated they pushed their way afoot three hundred miles across the prairies, subsisting on frozen corn, bread, and raw pork. Upon reaching Independence, Jackson County, Missouri, they set about actively to preach the gospel to thousands of their own race, and to the Indians whose main village lay just beyond the borders of the State. So successful were their labors that by February of this year (1831), it was decided that Elder Parley P. Pratt should return to Kirtland and report the progress of their work to the Prophet Joseph. Alone, this faithful servant of the Lord pressed his perilous journey back over the stretches of the wilderness, arriving in Ohio with the cold winds of March. A joyful reunion followed. The Prophet, having newly arrived from the East, talked prophetically about the gathering of Israel which was then starting. Kirtland, he said, would be a resting place where the persecuted members from the East might gain needed strength in company with their brethren in Ohio. But the great hope and promise for the children of the Lord lay at Page 721 72 Zion which was to be in the land "on the borders by the Lamanites." Here was to be raised a new city even the exact site of which was to be revealed. Zion there was to rise "fair as the sun," and there was to be "a New Jerusalem, a land of peace, a city of refuge, a place of safety for the saints of the Most High God" (Doc. And Cov. 45:64- 66). This was to be the land of their inheritance. In the bright month of June, 1831, between the third and sixth of the month, the fourth general conference of the Church was held at Kirtland. Some two thousand souls, by this time, had embraced the faith. The "little flock" of but the year before took on the appearance of a flourishing tribe of Israel. From such a joyous band were called the elders who, two by two, were instructed to go forth over the country declaring the message of good tidings from God (Doc. And Cov. Sec. 52). Thus elders journeyed toward the Missouri frontier, organizing branches of the Church as they traveled. Following the march of the missionaries came the Prophet Joseph and his party. They traveled by "wagon, stage, canal-boat, steamer and on foot, reaching Independence, Missouri, about the middle of July." (E. H. Anperson's, Brief History of the Church, page 48). Here the joy of meeting with Oliver Cowdery brought tears to the eyes of the Prophet. Not long after Joseph's arrival, the Lord made known to him the central gathering place of the saints and the location of the "City of Zion" (Doc. And Cov. Sec. 57). Independence was the chosen site, and the spot for the temple was designated as "lying westward, upon a lot which is not far from the courthouse." According to the revelation, lands were to be purchased by the saints, and the soil in the region _ was to be dedicated for the gathering of Israel, and for the building of the New Jerusalem. Sidney Gilbert was appointed a merchant and an agent for land purchases, while Edward Partridge, assisted by two counselors, was chosen to "divide the saints their inheritance," to be a judge in Israel, to receive the consecration of properties, to assign stewardship, and to receive the saints then on the way from Ohio. On the first of August, Sidney Rigdon was called by revelation to consecrate and dedicate to the Lord the land of Zion, to write a description thereof, and to prepare "an epistle and subscription to obtain money for purchasing lands for an inheritance" (Doc. And Cov. Sec. 8).: "The first step toward founding Zion was taken on the 2nd day of August, 1831. On that day Joseph, assisted by eleven other men, the whole representing the Twelve Tribes of Israel, helped to lay a log for a house in Kaw 'Township, twelve miles west of Independence, which locality the newly arrived saints from Colesville were settling. Elder Rigdon then dedicated the land. The following day, the 3rd, witnessed the consecration of the temple site, after which, in the 4th, the fifth conference of the church (the first in Zion) was held at the house of Joshua Lewis, in Kaw Township, most of the saints being present. Revelations were given  LESSON DEPARTMENT repeating some of the ten commandments, also concerning the Sabbath, and the return of certain elders to Kirtland, among whom were Joseph Smith, Oliver Cowdery and Sidney Rigdon." (E. H. Anperson's, A Brief History of the Church, pages 48-49) The winter of 1831-32 the Prophet spent in Kirtland, writing, receiving revelations, and working out for publication "The Lord's Preface to the Book of Commandments." Sidney Rigdon was closely associated with him in the literary ventures of this time. Persecutions grew so bitter by March that Joseph thought it wisdom to leave for Missouri again. In April he departed, Sidney Rigdon and Bishop Newel Whitney later joining him on the journey which was made in a roundabout way to avoid the fury of a mob. It was to his sorrow that the Prophet learned, upon arrival at Independence, that the enemies of his people there had started cruel treatment of the saints. - This was the beginning cloud of the storm that was to break over those assembled in the land of Missouri. Joseph remained with the Missouri saints until June, realizing all the while that signs pointed toward more trouble for his people even in the land which was promised as an inheritance. With the coming of summer he had again returned to Kirtland, there to be lost in the task of receiving other great revelations from the Lord so important for the upbuilding of God's kingdom; and to direct the plan and work of constructing a temple. Prosperity soon smiled upon the saints in Kirtland. Property amounting to over $11,000 was purchased. 723 Mills, workshops, and public buildings rose amid humming industries. Another year passed, and then, in September of 1833, came Oliver Cowdery with sad news of the persecutions of some twelve hundred saints in Missouri. 'These law-abiding and peaceful citizens had incurred the hate and jealousy of their poorly organized neighbors, who looked upon the Mormons with their professed power of godliness as instigators. Of race riots among negro slaves and Indians; and who demanded, by heavenly decree, the very land of the Indians. Mobs arose, of five hundred or more men in number, to march upon these "insolent people." Bishop Partridge was tarred and feathered, and other saints threatened and abused. Governor Lilburn W. Boggs sided in with the rioters, robbing the saints of their liberties. Then came the word that all Mormons were to leave the State, half by January 1, 1834, and the remainder by April first of the same year. "'The Mormons must go,' was the general cry. The Saints appealed to the State executive for military aid, in vain. That functionary advised them to try the law. Following his advice brought only disaster. It was like applying fire to powder. Soon the whole country arose in arms to make war upon the unfortunate, peculiar people. It was on the thirtieth and thirty-first of October, and the first of November that the most furious attacks were made. Men were beaten, houses unroofed, property destroyed, women and children driven screaming into the wilderness.... 'Armed bands of ruffians ranged the country in every direction 724 bursting into houses, terrifying women and children and threatening the defenseless people with death if they did not instantly flee. Out upon the bleak prairies, along the Missouri's banks, chilled by November's winds and drenched by pouring rains, hungry and shelter-less, weeping and _heart-broken, wandered forth the exiles. Families scattered and divided, husbands seeking wives, wives husbands, parents searching for children, not knowing if they were yet alive.' Thus were between twelve and fifteen hundred souls expelled from their homes and possessions in Jackson County, three hundred of their homes were burned, ten settlements left desolate. Most of the exiles found refuge in Clay County, just across the river, where they were kindly received." (E. H. ANDERSON, A Brief History of the Church, pages 55-57.) Word of these outrages, brought to the Prophet in the spring of 1834, caused him to organize and lead what was known as "Zion's Camp" (Doc. And Cov. 101, 103). The men who marched forth May 5th? one hundred in number?were joined by two hundred and five recruits along the way. There were young and middle-aged men in the company. Excitement struck the hearts of the enemies of the Church and the Missourians armed for the attack. It was soon learned, however, through conferences with the Prophet, that his intentions were peaceable. He asked naught but a just settlement of the differences between the citizens of Missouri and his followers. On June 25th at Rush Creek the Prophet disbanded the camp. Nothing seemed accomplished by this first marshalled force of modern Israel to assert their rights at the hands of their enemies. Leadership and loyalty for the Prophet and the cause were developed, however, among many of the men who later became pillars of strength in the Church. The Missouri period in the Church history is one of a rising and a setting sun. In the joy of seeking the earthly possessions which God had promised, the saints forgot his warning counsels and the conditions under which he had said the "City of Zion" could be brought about. God, therefore, tried his people and sanctified the land with their blood. They were tried in the furnace to be made bright and strong for the more rigorous days ahead. From Jackson County to Clay, and from Clay to Caldwell and Daviess Counties, they were driven, their property confiscated and their homes possessed or burned. The battle of Crooked River, and the massacre at Haun's Mill fell upon them amid the crimson leaves of that October in 1838. Troops joined hands with the mobs in making the rout from Missouri complete, while at the point of a bayonet the saints signed away their property. Crooked officials and false friends led them pitilessly into the armed forces of their enemies. Joseph Smith, who by this time had come to Far West, was taken prisoner, and with him went several of his close associates. Later, the Prophet and his friends were committed to jail to await trial. They remained there during the winter of LESSON DEPARTMENT cell he wrote, "Zion though she seemeth to be dead." Then in April of 1839, he and his brother Hyrum made their escape, with "the tacit permission of their drunken guards," to again join their families in the State of Illinois where Brigham Young and the Twelve had taken the saints. When the count was made of those who had survived the Missouri storm, such prominent men as Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Luke and Lyman Johnson were not to be found among the faithful, they having been dropped as disaffected members at the conference held at Far West. But phoenix-like was the Church to rise again on the very edge of the ashes heaped high by the Missouri fires, and in a city called "Nauvoo the Beautiful." Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggested readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part in the Doctrine and Covenants to discover wherein we must "give heed unto 725 his word" which has been written especially for out life in this day. 1. The bringing about of the Lord's kingdom in our day has been termed "a marvelous work and a wonder." How unlike other great building activities of men has been the Mormon way of developing towns and erecting places of worship? Read section 57 of the Doctrine and Covenants which names i and "spot for the temple." with a reading of section 58 and let the class "give eat and learn" the will of the Lord. Note particularly verses 21-22, 27-28. 'These may prompt discussion. Find other verses that strengthen one's * faith. 2. In photography the blackest nega tives always produce the brightest positive or picture. How can this principle be applied to the suffering of the Prophet and the saints? How, to anyone, personally? Read section 121 of the Doctrine and Covenants, 4 most beautiful expression of God's love for the Prophet who was suffering in jail. Note one of the truly distinctive statements of our Mormon philosophy of leadership patterned after that of the Master, in verses 34-49- Read 'sections 101 and 103 of the Doctrine and Covenants for a further understanding of the reasons for the persecution in Missouri. Let these sections form a part of the class discussion drawing a pres ent-day application therefrom. Sections 122, 123 give words of comfort to the suffering saints and were written while the Prophet still remained in Liberty Jail. The rung of a ladder was never meant to rest upon, but only to hold a man's foot long enough to enable him to put the other somewhat higher. Thomas Henry Huxley  Visiting Teachers' Messages Sources of Strength?The Beatitudes Lesson 6?Blessed Are the Pure in Heart Elder Bryant S. Hinckley For Tuesday, March 6, 1945 Objective: To show that the pure in heart are those who walk uprightly and work righteousness, and their rewards are realized both in this life and in the life to come. "BLESSED are the pure in heart:. For they shall see God" (Matt. 5:8). This great promise made by the Savior is confirmed, and the conditions upon which its fulfillment rests are more fully explained in the Doctrine and Covenants, sec. 93:1: "Verily, thus saith the Lord: It shall come to pass that. Every soul who forsaketh his sins and cometh unto me, and calleth on my name, and obeyeth my voice, and keepeth my commandments, shall see my face and know that I am." Jesus tells us that purity of heart leads to a knowledge of God. A perfect knowledge of God is to be attained only by a consecrated life. We read in Psalm 15:1-3: "Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill? He that walketh uprightly, and worketh righteousness, and speaketh the truth in his heart. He that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his neighbour, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbour." And again, Psalm 24:3-4: "Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? Or who shall stand in his holy place? He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart; who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully." Again in Psalm 73:11: "Truly God is good to Israel, even to such as are of a clean heart." President Brigham Young tells us that the prayer of the pure in heart will have more effect than the eloquence of Cicero?the simple, honest heart is of more avail with the Lord than all of the pomp, pride, splendor, and eloquence produced by men. The heart is the source of action, the seat of the moral life. Purity of heart means more than physical cleanliness; it means, in addition, uprightness and goodness of soul. "As a man thinketh in his heart, so he is," and, "Out of the heart are the issues of life." The blessings promised in this Beatitude are finally to be realized beyond the grave, but observance in this life brings a rich reward. LESSON DEPARTMENT 727 Literature New Testament Lesson 6?The Acts of the Apostles Dr. Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, March 20, 1945 LIKE The Gospel According to St. Luke, The Acts of the Apostles, generally ascribed to the same authorship, is primarily historical literature. In this record ? addressed, as was the preceding book, to a Roman leader, Theophilus?we are given a stirring account of events following the death and resurrection of the Savior. In Acts, the heroic carrying forward of the work of the Master, the spreading of the gospel not only to the Jews but to other peoples, is vividly portrayed. One basic difference in structure marks the Gospel of St. Luke from its sequel. In the former, gospel teachings of the Savior are inwoven with the historical text; in Acts, gospel discourses given by the apostles, particularly Paul, are, in the main, to be found in the Epistles. A study of these Epistles from the literary viewpoint is reserved for the next lesson. In essence, The Acts of the Apostles is an evangelical epic. It is made up of a series of stories linked together in natural sequence, portraying the rise of the early Christian Church under heroic missionary leaders. Stunned at first with the tragic passing of Jesus, his faithful disciples remained bewildered until, lifted by his resurrection, they saw more Clearly the divine meaning of it all. Then came from their risen Lord this sacred calling and commission: But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you: and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth" (Acts 1:8). After this, when Jesus had been, "taken up and a cloud received him out of their sight" (Acts 1:9), the disciples, with his mother Mary and other women, communed together in prayer and supplication. Matthias was chosen to fill the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles left vacant when Judas betrayed the Savior. And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in one place. And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing, mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting. And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of fire, and it sat upon each of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak with other. Tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance (Acts 2:1-4). People roundabout, hearing the strange commotion, gathered. In the multitude were devout men, Jews out of many nations. And they 728 were amazed?confounded at hearing these inspired Galileans speak in a language each could understand in his own tongue, of "the wonderful works of God." Some of the listeners mocking said, "These men are full of new wine" (Acts 2:13). But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and said... For these are not drunken, as ye suppose,. -. But this is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel; And it shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, I will pour out of my Spirit upon all flesh: and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams: And on my servants and on my handmaidens I will pour out in those days of my Spirit; In words of inspiration Peter goes on to bear his burning testimony, and to say: Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly, that God hath made that same Jesus, whom ye have crucified, both Lord and Christ. Now, when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart, and said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? Then Peter said unto them, Repent, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost.... Then they that gladly received his word were baptized: and the same day there were added unto them about three thousand souls (Acts 2:36-38; 41). Here is stirring drama to divine purpose: the portrayal of an event that has helped to shape the spiritual destiny of the world. Observe how the story moves, how it rises in climax, how it is kept centered around Peter, the principal character, who, with fiery zeal, rises to leadership in carrying forward the work of the Savior. Note also the simplicity, the directness with which the author helps the story to tell itself. - Mark, too, the artistry in the choice of words with which inspired translators have kept the story alive, picturesque, and convincing. "With one accord," "rushing mighty wind," "pricked in their heart," are illustrative expressions (See Acts 2). Naturally this successful launching of the great missionary work was a challenge to the enemies of Christianity. As the band of brethren and sisters grew in numbers, and carried forward, "with gladness and singleness of heart," the opposition waxed fiercer. Persecution, however, was only a spur to the devout workers in their labor of love. Onward they pressed in the spirit of Christ, ministering to the poor and the sick, even performing miracles in his name. Threatenings and imprisonment did not daunt the apostles and their humble followers. Martyrdom only strengthened their determination and faith. Another of the well-known stories, from Acts, that of Stephen the Martyr, portrays the persecution of the disciples of Christ at its height. It reveals also the devotion of these early Christians as they braved the fury of the Pharisees and other enemies of the followers of Jesus. Haled before the high priest on false charges of blasphemy, Stephen more than answers his accusers, and boldly charges them with always resisting the Holy Ghost as their fathers had ever done. LESSON DEPARTMENT "Which of the Prophets," Stephen asked, "have betrayers and not this sin to their charge, when he had said this he fell asleep" (Acts 7:55 ff). Thus, Praying for those that had Persecuted and despitefully used him, the first martyr of the mission. Ary ?ta passed to his Teward. Yet, the truth he Proclaimed did not die; indeed it was nourished by his blood and quickened by his Christlike spirit. And one of those who participated in the cruel killing?Say} of Tarsus?through a dramatic turn 729 Jerusalem, And as he journeyed, he came near Damascus: and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven: And he fell to the earth, and heard a Voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why Persecutest thou me? And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou Persecutest; it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks, And he. Trembling and astonished said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? And the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go into the city, and it shall be told thee What thou must do. And the men which journeyed with him stood speechless, hearing a voice, but see. Ing no man,; And Saul arose from the earth; and when his yes were opened, he saw no man: but they led him by the hand, and brought him into Damascus. In that city, the sight of Stricken Saul was finally restored. More than Master said, "he is a chosen vessel unto me, to bear my name before the Gentiles, and kings, and the children of Israel." Thus Saul of Tarsus, became Pay brought humbly into the fold of Christ. In succeeding chapters of Acts, the rest of the life story of this great evangelist is told. In his Epistles (to be studied later) is preserved some of his masterful interpretations of the Privileged to bear the Master's name "before the Gentiles and kings"; for he carried it even to Athens, seat of ancient culture and to Imperial Rome. Discussion and Activities* 1. Why may the Acts of the Apostles be called living history? 2. Why also may it be described as an evangelical (or missionary) epic? 3. What literary qualities do you find in each of the stories reviewed in this lesson: "The Day of Pentecost"; "The Stoning of Stephen"; "The Conversion of Paul'?... 4. Be prepared to tell briefly any of these other stories: (a) "Peter Heals the Lame Man" (Acts 3:1-11); "Peter and Cornelius" (Acts 10); "Paul and Silas Are Set Free'' (Acts 16:19-40); "Paul before King Agrippa" (Acts 26)?or take another story of your own choosing from the Book. 5. (a) Why did Jewish leaders oppose violently the spread of Christianity? (b) Why did some of the Greek workmen attack the missionaries? (See Acts 19:23- 41); (c) What type of folk, in general, did welcome them and the message they brought? *For an excellent summary of the contents of the Acts of the Apostles see Moulton, Modern Reader's Bible, pp. 1674-1677. ? Social Science Modern Applications of Ethical Principles Lesson 5?Truth and Its Perversions Dr. Harold T. Christensen For Tuesday, March 27, 1945 Lesson link. The world today is in need of a great moral reawakening. Happiness is the main goal of life and the standard against which morality is measured. One of the principles of happiness, and hence righteousness, is personal progression. Progress is made possible through the creative and responsible use of free agency. Many people abuse this moral law of the universe by seeking to dodge and evade consequences, which they cannot do. All of this we have studied in the earlier lessons. Lesson aim. To examine truth as the framework of ethics, and to study some of the ways in which it becomes perverted. Just as happiness is the criterion of morality, progression the major process, and freedom the condition or means by which it is brought about, so truth is its framework or structure. "And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free" (John 8:32). This basic scripture conveys the very essence of ethics, for it is the freedom from evil gained through a knowledge of truth that brings progression, happiness, and the good life. Truth, then, is the "stuff" out of which morals are built. The Meaning of Truth Probably the most simple definition of truth is that it consists of things as they are, past, present, and future (Doc. And Cov. Sec. 93:24). The universe is full of objects, processes, and relationships that exist  LESSON DEPARTMENT 731 separate and apart from the mind of man. All of these together make up total reality, or total truth as we have chosen to call it.
When truth is utilized in the performance of some act beyond the present comprehension of man, we call it a "miracle"; but as man grows in his understanding of truth, the miracles of yesterday become the commonplace things of today. Intelligence, which is the mastery of truth, is the glory of both God and man.
Although truth is not limited by man's understanding of it, man is so limited, and the progress of man is consequently contingent upon his expanding comprehension of reality as it exists about him. This search for truth may differ in method but its results are always the same?growth and happiness. Whether by the investigation of the scientist, the speculation of the philosopher, or the inspiration of the religionist, if the process leads to truth, it is legitimate and is ethically desirable. A sincere and honest search for truth, together with a courage and zeal to follow wherever it leads is basic in any moral system. Morality is not founded upon falsehood.
But there are perversions of this principle, some of which have already been alluded to in earlier lessons. In the hope for personal advantage, some people do forsake truth and cling to falsehood. It should be obvious that this will get them nowhere in the long run, though they may profit momentarily. To sacrifice others and endanger future happiness for the sake of selfish passing thrills is immoral, for by departing from the ways of eternal truth it defeats the attainment of
happiness through eternal progression. It is to some of these distortions or perversions of truth that we now turn attention.
Willful Ignorance
Intelligence is so central in both latter-day Saint doctrine and secular philosophy as to require mention only. We are told that no man can reasonably be saved in ignorance, and that the glory of God is intelligence. This is all very reasonable, for salvation is a process leading to Godhead, and Godhead is contingent upon the mastery of truth. Ignorance is a vice; intelligence, a virtue.
Ignorance is to be especially condemned when it results from indifference or laziness. Man is free to do as he will, but it is wrong to recklessly deprive oneself of knowledge and truth. Indifference to reality and laziness in its quest are the twin evils back of ignorance. The highest morality involves a love of truth and a passion for things that are right. Willful ignorance is immoral because it is an unnecessary desertion of truth.
The mastery of truth requires a search more than it does a defense, and many err in confusing these two. The moral life is active and progressive, not stagnant nor retrogressive; dynamic, not static. There are too many people today with a defense complex; too many looking for proof rather than truth; confirmation rather than information.
Reasons for this static, and hence, perverted approach to truth are many, but they all center around man's self-interest as he narrowly conceives it. It is easier to hold on and follow than it is to climb upward and lead out, but only the latter will 732 bring results morally desirable. Change and innovation are always disturbing for they require effort and reorganization, but they are the only way to progression. One cannot progress standing still. If man could but realize that the search for truth does not mean the defense of status quo, if he could grasp the forward point of view, if he could be a little more analytic and a little less dogmatic; if man could do these things, truth would be less abused and humanity would be more enlightened and more happy because of it. In the long run, self-interest may require the sacrifice of what may seem at the time to be for our best interest. Failure to make his sacrifice for eternal truth, through doggedly defending vested interests of the moment, is a perversion of ethics. Sincerity in Place of Certainty Although sincerity is a virtue, as will be shown below, it alone is not enough. It is possible to mean well and still be wrong. Truth exists separate and apart from man's understanding of truth, and it becomes man's moral duty, therefore, to be inquisitive and critical beyond the acceptance of authoritative _ statements. Sincerity of statement may fool the uncritical and blind them to errors and fallacies intrinsic in the statement. Knowledge or certainty should be the aim, and satisfaction with anything short of this is a perversion of the good life. Sincerity alone is no substitute for truth, but sincerity with truth is a virtue of the highest order Sclf-deception Sometimes man tries to fool himself by the process of rationalization. Instead of doing what he ought to do, he does what he wants to do and then tries to reason himself into thinking that it was right. This is the wishful or fantasy thinking referred to in an earlier lesson, and it leads only to self-justification, certainly not to truth. Making excuses or justifying oneself in following desire rather than reason so that it appears to be reasonable is merely dodging the truth. And when man does so he only deceives himself. But not for long, for eventually the truth will out and he will see himself as he really is. Intellectual honesty is a crying need of the day. Shakespeare said, "To thine own self be true, and it must follow, as the night the day, thou canst not then be false to any man" (Shakespeare, Hamlet: Act I, Scene 3, Line 75). We are sorely in need of men and women today who know how to think straight and who aren't afraid to do it. The tendency to sidestep truth and then to "kid ourselves" about the consequences is at the root of all deception, and is, therefore, an evil of great magnitude. Self-depreciation Another perversion of truth is the tendency, in some, to discredit or devalue the dignity and importance of self in relation to the universe. Sometimes it takes the form of self-abuse and self-torture as with certain Hindu cults. More often it is simply a matter of self-neglect, with ill-health as the result. Frequently it~ expresses itself in chronic inferiority feelings and overly submissive attitudes. Individuality is important in the order of things, and any attempt to discredit it is a distortion of all true values. Health, in both LESSON DEPARTMENT its physical and mental aspects, is based upon the proper application of true principles to the self, and where one's perspective is so warped as to permit willful neglect of himself, he should be considered immoral for this neglect. Likewise, it is important that each person have a proper estimation of himself, not too inflated, to be sure, but neither too deflated. Humility accompanied by a real sense of self-worth and _self-confidence is a virtue, but where devoid of this it results in the perversion of self-depreciation for it means stagnant and _ insipid personalities. Truth should be applied to the self as well as to society, and where the self is neglected or depreciated truth is thereby distorted. Self-glorification But just as self-depreciation is an evil on the one hand, so self-glorification is an evil on the other. What the world needs is self-confidence without arrogance, self-assurance without conceit, self-interest without vanity and selfishness. Confidence admits mistakes when found and starts again on the basis of new discoveries, but arrogance yields to nothing. Self-glorification is a perversion of truth because of the overinflation in self-importance it brings. Closely related to the egotism of self-glorification is the evil of self-pity. There is too much whining and complaining today. Undistorted truth should give each person a proper perspective of himself in relation to the universe, and should make him courageous enough to "take it" without a whimper. Lying The telling of untruths is equally serious with these other perversions, 733 more serious perhaps than some. Lying is willful deception by verbal means, and the liar is not to be trusted. Whether the so-called "white lies" are wrong or not is debatable, but there is no debate on the ethics of lying in general. 'There might be some justification for making a false' statement out of social graciousness, such as saying you like a new hat when you don't really care for it, or of telling an untruth to save someone's life, but aside from unconsequential and extreme cases such as these, there is no justification for lying. Lying is an attempt to escape responsibility and avoid consequences by circumventing truth. Since it is dishonest it leads to distrust. Someone has pointed out that the best thing about telling the truth is that you don't have to remember what you have said, and there is a lot of sense in this statement. A clear conscience based upon honesty and truth is the only way to righteousness. It is better to be trusted than to be loved. Cheating Aside from lying, there are other ways of assaulting truth by deceiving the public, and cheating is one of these ways. Some of the major forms of cheating are as follows: (1) stealing another's property; (2) plagiarism or "literary theft" such as copying an examination or using another's words verbatim in a speech or in a paper as if they were your own; (3) cheating by omission rather than commission; such as protecting or defending the wrongdoer, remaining silent when an error has been made that benefits you, or in other ways taking advantage of mistakes that are in your favor; and (4) 734 showing favoritism or unjustly discriminating against some for the benefit of others or yourself. In all of these practices, truth is perverted for personal advantage, it is not shared equably, and this is cheating. Hypocrisy Artificiality and deception are very common forms of truth distortion. A great many people unfortunately seem to feel that they must wear a mask in dealing with others and never let their real selves and honest intentions be known. They are glib in speech, using flattery instead of sincere compliment, propaganda instead of truth. It must be remembered that pretentions which are out of line with practice do not long deceive. It was Emerson who said, "What you are thunders so loudly in my ears that I cannot hear what you say." Half-truths and truths given out in distorted proportions really add up to falsehood, and anyone who uses these devices to deceive and misrepresent is a hypocrite regardless of the particles of truth he may include in the process. Eulogy is no substitute for analogy and truth; the letter of the law is no substitute for the spirit; going through the motions of righteousness, pretending that you are good, is of no avail unless you really are good. Expediency Much of what has been said above applies as well to the evil of expediency. All of these truth perversions discussed here are interrelated one with another, and all (or nearly all) tie up directly with the spirit of self-aggrandizement ? through expediency. The dictionary defines expediency as that which is "conducive to special advantage rather than to what is universally night." An expedient individual has only the selfish point 'of view and is willing to sacrifice a principle for personal benefit. He is insincere, and, since he lives not by. Principle, he is also inconsistent and unpredictable. He cannot be depended upon nor trusted. To him anything is right that he can get away with; sin comes not from the act itself, he thinks, but from getting caught. He is not genuine. He lacks conviction. Expediency is often rationalized on the grounds of being broadminded. But this is a grievous error for while broadmindedness is a virtue when tempered by conviction, it is not a virtue without conviction. Some people are so broad that they become shallow. What the world needs is men of vision, conviction, and honor; men who are not for sale; men who know the right and have the courage to live it. The only difference between a statesman and a politician, as we use these terms today, is that the one is ethical in his public life while the other is willing to twist truth to his own advantage; the one is moral and the other immoral. Politics is a technique of expediency, and it is _ not confined to the field of government alone. Almost every institution or group has those within it who are willing to cheat in one way or another for their own selfish advantage ?expedients these, politicians all. This misuse of faith and confidence, this betrayal of truth, is at the bottom of most of the world's suffering today. Without it, much of the human misery of the day based on LESSON DEPARTMENT injustice, infidelity, and deceit could not exist. It is to the desertion of truth that most of humanity's woes are attributive. If people were only a little more industrious, intelligent, and dependable; if they were more ready to act out of sincerity, confidence, and conviction rather than hypocrisy and personal expediency; if they were a little more genuine and honorable and less prone to lie and cheat; if truth could reign, in other words, this would be a far better world in which to live. Problems for Thought and Action 1. What is truth and how is it related to morality? What are the major sources or methods of reaching truth? How are man's progression and happiness dependent upon his understanding of truth? Discuss. Name _ the so-called perversions of truth explained in _ this lesson. Check all terms used with the dictionary and discuss their meanings. 2. Why is willful ignorance a perversion of truth? Why is it wrong to look for proof rather than truth, to defend rather than search? Give examples and discuss. Is sincerity a virtue or a vice? Is sincerity alone enough? Why not? Show how fantasy thinking and rationalization lead to self-deception. Why is intellectual honesty so important? Give examples of intellectual dishonesty. Why are self-depreciation and self-glorification both perversions of the truth? Is self-neglect that leads to ill-health immoral? Discuss. Show how humility without self-confidence may become pathological and hence undesirable. Are arrogance, vanity, and 735 conceit immoral? Discuss. Self-pity such an evil? 3. What is lying and why is it immoral? Is insincere flattery lying? Name the four ways of cheating listed in the lesson, give examples of each, and then discuss them one at a time. What is hypocrisy and why is it wrong? Discuss ways of overcoming deceitful tendencies. What is expediency? Give examples. Why is expediency unethical? Does conviction need to make one narrow minded? Discuss. How broadminded should one be? What is the difference between a statesman and a politician? Give illustrations of politics in morals and show the results in terms of human unhappiness. 4. The lesson next month will be very closely related to this discussion. It is suggested that unsettled questions or problems be carried over to next time with special assignments, perhaps, on points that need to be looked up. Special reports could also be assigned on the influence of the home and the church upon character formation. Why is Selected References Mitton Bennion, Moral Teachings of the New Testament, pp. 88-92. (Out of print, but may be found in most Latter-day Saint communities in home and Church libraries). Leo J. Murr, Flashes from the Eternal Semaphore, pp. 53-64,