Be Strong, My Heart! Marguerite J. Griffin HE world is bathed in blood— the blood of the youth whose destiny should have been its hope, its strength of tomorrow. The world is haunted with hunger—with gnawing famine that emaciates the body. The world is polluted with pestilence more destructive than disease carried forth on every wind—it is the hate of men... The world is steeped in sorrow. Nearly every heart feels _ its touch. Nearly every home hears its step. And I, in my small selfishness— I had dared to give thanks that my sons were young, too young to hear this call to arms. But that was a year ago, when my oldest boy could only touch the trolley strap with his finger tips, when he had to cling to my hand, or, if he wished to be more independent, to the vertical bar placed at intervals for that purpose. Yes, that was a year ago at Christmas time, but this year— The trolley was crowded. We had to stand. I was thinking of many things. How there was not much Christmas happiness upon the faces of people. How there were lines of anxiety instead. A pregnant girl, sitting nearby, was wistfully reading a letter and looking at snapshots it contained of a soldier's company, of the soldier alone, undoubtedly the father of her unborn babe. My heart twisted at the calm look of resigned courage that filled her young face as she, at last, folded her letter and put it away. Perhaps this was not the first time she had read it. Perhaps this was all she would ever have.. But here was I, with my little brood of three safely clinging near me, going to a_ well-established house, where night would welcome, home the security of a loving father. Here was I with so much. My eyes turned thankfully to my children, and then I saw the thing that made me gasp. My brood was clinging to me, did I say? Yes. All but my oldest son, and he was hanging to the strap quite comfortably, not stretching to make it, but with plenty of slack in the bend of his elbow. Last year—only last year he could not do it! How fast a boy becomes a man! Why was I so blind not to see? What made me think I would be spared? There was a woman, I knew, whose boys during World War I were young like mine. She was thankful for that, then, too. It was easier to see brother or husband go than this flesh of her flesh. But today one son is in Italy and the other in England. That was today. Tomorrow? Who knows? How fast a lad of eleven becomes a man in a militant world where boys are called men at eighteen! Will my heart never cease pounding with this thought? His face is young. His eyes full of dreams. What kind of a world will it be in seven short years that pass like the tush of wind? What kind of a mother will I be? Let me find the courage to take what life may bring! Let me fortify 689 

my heart so that nothing can my heart so that nothing can break through to agonize my soul. Pain of body, that is bad, but pain of soul, that is worse. Science has done much to find healing medicines for the flesh, but for the sickening heart hurts of men, what is there? For the pain a mother feels when she reads the words: "Regret to report . . . Missing in action. . . ." Dear God, what is there then?
THAT is it! That is the answer! That is the solace! As a little child who meets with sudden grief runs blindly home, calling, "Mother! Daddy!" So do we in moments of direst pain call out instinctively to the Father of us all: "Dear God." And in that calling our pain is a little more bearable, for the Maker of us all knows the hearts of men. In time of stress we cry out. We cease to question the proposition, is there a God. We know.
That night the warmth of my home seemed more cozy. The laughter of my children seemed more blessed, my husband's arms more protective. The walls, the dishes, the rugs, the hearth all gleamed with a poignancy I had never seen before. There was the feeling in my heart that I must love every minute of time, for it was ticking away, slowly, surely, yet with a speed that was breath-taking. In my little world there was peace and quiet. In the big world not so far away were guns and blood and pain. And in my own heart there was no tranquility now. But I must find it! I must not be burdened with dread, with fear! I must fortify against the future so I might cling to that faith that burned as bright-
ness of each moment, until—until—come what may.
That night after the children were in bed, I took down my Bible. I opened it and read. I had always loved the Bible. I had read a little in it, from time to time. I had loved the beauty of its words, the poetry of its phrases. I had taken a course in Bible Appreciation once. But tonight as I read with a heart made mellow by fear and dread, I caught the Spirit that was clothed in those words: "Come unto Me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest."
Oh, America, why have your Bibles been gathering dust upon the shelves these many years? Know you not that your very forebears forsook the ancient lands across the seas that they might worship God according to the dictates of their consciences? In the main, they came not for gold, for adventure; for they were peaceful men and women, lovers of home and industry. They came for freedom. Freedom from more than shackles upon the flesh. They came for the glorious freedom of the soul, freedom to worship God, freedom for the pursuit of happiness.
I am thankful for every one of my forebears who came to this land of liberty. It was sacrifice to come so far to an unknown land, to start life over again. But because of their sacrifices I was born here upon a blessed, upon an abundant land. Their toil has been my heritage. And what have I done with it? I had forgotten what they gave their blood for. I had forgotten why they did it, until now when the battle is being fought all over again. And what of the Book—that Book of Books that brought with them, from which their children first learned to read, the Book that formed the philosophy of their justice one with another—that Book which some of their descendants had nearly forgotten?.. But today, mothers buy a pocket edition for their sons as they leave the family hearth, as they sail across the seas. BE STRONG, MY HEART And this new youth, serious, shaken, is reading the timeless pages, drinking deep from the well that is never dry, that is waiting for the finger to open a page, for lips to breathe the words: "Come unto me and I will give you rest." Rest to the wounded, rest to the weary, rest 691 
to the heart-broken. "Learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in heart, and ye shall find rest to your souls." So I must learn of him who gave his only Son. I must strengthen the defenses about my soul, that America may be truly strong without and within, that she may hold a little higher her Torch of Liberty to shed its healing rays upon despairing peoples everywhere. "Wherefore, take upon you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand." To the future then, whatever may come —Be strong, my heart!