Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MRS. WILLIE CLAY KEYES of Salt Lake City has collected pennies amounting to more than $1100.00 for starving Chinese babies. She has received, from China, a hand-printed and colored "Award of Recognition" signed by Madame Chiang Kai-shek. JOSEPHINE SHAW LOWELL was born 101 years ago in December. A Civil War widow at twenty, she devoted her life to improving conditions in poorhouses, jails, reformatories, and public hospitals, especially those for women and children. Seeing men work fifteen hours a day for $6. Co per week turned her attention to emancipating labor. HE vast youth movement in Russia is directed by 32-year-old Madame Olga Petronova, former teacher in the University of Moscow. Mother of one child, she has adopted seven others. She has a master's degree in both economics and science. NOTEWORTHY books; Fiction: A Haunted House and Other Stories, by the late Virginia Woolf —sensitive, imaginative art; The Leaning Tower and Other Stories, Katherine Anne Porter, artist of deftness and finesse, highly literary; Green Dolphin Street, Elizabeth Goudge, the novel that won the Metro - Goldwyn - Mayer $125,000 prize. Non-fiction: Speaking of Jane Austen, Sheila Kaye-Smith and G. B. Stern. Two brilliant English women novelists discuss their favorite English woman novelist; Anna and the King of Siam, Margaret Landon, fascinating story of a Victorian English governess who taught the King of Siam's sixty-seven children, especially the Prince who became the next king. For young people: Pigeon Heroes, Marion Cothren; No Room, Rose Dobbs; Pierre Keeps Watch, Maria Gleit—the contribution of a fourteen-year-old shepherd boy to the French Underground; fictional biographies of musicians by Madeleine Goss: Beethoven, Master Musician; Deep Flowing Brook (Bach); Unfinished Symphony (Schubert); Brahms the Master, by Goss in collaboration with R. H. Schauffler, (especially readable). For younger children: The Flower Drum Book and Other Chinese Songs; Cherry Stones, Eleanor Fargeon (poetry); Then There Were Five, a Melendy family story by Elizabeth Enright, excellent; Young Men of the House, Mabel Leigh Hunt (a nine-year-old boy's responsibilities when father goes to war). MARY CRAIG McGEACHY, formerly of the British Embassy in Washington, is now chief of the welfare. Division of the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration. Page 703 

VOL 31 DECEMBER 1944 NO. 12 A Cry of Repentance Lift your Voice and Spare not. Call upon the Nations to repent, both old and young, both bond and free, Saying: Prepare Yourselves for the great day of the Lord;. (Doc. And Coy, 43:20), THE 115th semi-annual general conference, held last October was termed by one of the Church leaders ?a cry of repentance.? As such, the message of the conference, it was estimated, reached perhaps millions of listeners. What a contrast to that cry of repentance voiced by John the Baptist over 1900 years ago, previous to the beginning of Christ's ministry, when, in reply to the Jews who sent men to enquire who he was, he replied, "I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight."
That cry of repentance came from a lone man out of a wilderness, the present cry of repentance came in the strength of the Church, from chosen servants of the Lord in this day, and sounded in the ears of a multitude of people; and yet, the fundamental proof of the efficacy of its plea will be established by the same words as those uttered long ago by John, "Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance." Though the cry today is broadcast to millions in place of the hundreds of an earlier time, though the world has progressed phenomenally in the field of science so that a modern invention has enabled the cry to be heard by the world, no invention has been discovered by which to prepare the hearts of men for the message; and still, to prove oneself a follower of Christ, one's heart must accept the seeds of repentance and nurture them, so that he may bring forth fruits worthy of repentance.
Though the world may, as its past history has demonstrated, again turn a deaf ear to the pleading of Church leaders, the heart of every true Latter-day Saint will accept the gospel of repentance?the key of which was restored to the earth by that same John the Baptist when he conferred the Priesthood of Aaron on the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery, in 1820.
In the midst of the widespread evil and sin rampant in the world today, as expressed at this last conference, Latter-day Saint parents will teach to their children the doctrine of repentance, and, as individuals, they will practice this doctrine. When the inspired leaders of this Church, noble, God-fearing, and righteous men, voice a cry of repentance, Church members heed the cry and, understanding the requisites of true repentance, prepare themselves for the great day of the Lord. M.C.S.
Page 704