Palestine
Dr. Leland Hargrave Creer
Head of the Department of History and Political Science, University of Utah
[This is the first instalment of the last article in the series by Dr. Creer on the historical backgrounds of some of the countries involved in the present war.—Ed.]
THE story of the Jews in world history, despite its interest, is a pathetic story of national impotence. For only a century have these hapless people enjoyed any real freedom or any semblance of political greatness. For the rest of their history, despite their continued occupancy for some one thousand years of their homeland in Palestine, they were never independent of external influences, never able to pursue without risk, a self-respecting policy, never free from the potential or actual interference of greater powers. Israel was subject to Syria, dismembered by Assyria, enslaved by Babylonia, and, finally, conquered and annexed by Rome. And yet the Jewish nation with no home, has made every nation its home; through good and evil fortune, it has preserved its nationalism so intact that no nation has been able to treat its Jewish citizens as a negligible quantity, nor to disregard the peculiarities of their customs and prejudices.
With the conquest of Turkey by the British in 1917, and the dramatic entrance of Field Marshall Viscount Allenby into Jerusalem, on December 17 of that year, thus ending Moslem rule in Palestine which had existed since 1244, the hopes of the Zionists to re-establish a National Home for the Jews were revived. The Zionists were encouraged in their efforts through the publication
Page 684
of the celebrated Balfour Declaration by the British in 1917, notice of which will appear later in this article. With the rise of Hitlerism and the advent of World War II, renewed Jewish persecutions in Nazi controlled areas have made the problem of Jewish rehabilitation extremely acute. It is estimated, for example, that of the 3,500,000 Jews originally in Poland, not a quarter of a million still live. Those who do are protected by non-Jewish members of the underground, or live like cave men, in the Polish forests. "They live to tell a story, not to save a people." But, as one authority says:
Those Jews who live have learned one thing: a people without a homeland of their own is doomed. What Theodor Herzl preached long ago, while "the most highly civilized Jews" of Europe refused to listen, has been proved in our lifetime. And from one end of Europe to another, Jews sit down and weep, are they weep, because they remember Zion. (THOMPSON, To Whom Does Palestine Belong, page 6)
But the founding of a National Home in Palestine for the Jews is not so simple. For more than twenty years, efforts in this direction have been thwarted by inter-racial, foreign, and domestic complications until today, the cause of the Zionists appears to be more hopeless than ever. But before reviewing the chaotic events associated with this problem, let us first turn our attention to the resources and physiographical features of the country itself. PALESTINE | 685
[Map showing Turkey, Syria, Iraq, Trans-Jordan, Palestine, Egypt, and Arabia with cities marked]
—Drawing by Evan Jensen
PALESTINE Palestine, the Holy Land, consists of very dissimilar districts and borders on regions of equal diversity in character. To the south lies a mountainous desert; to the east, the elevated plateau of the Syrian steppe; to the north, the republic of Lebanon; and to the west, the Mediterranean Sea. In the general configuration of the country, the most striking feature is that it does not rise uninterruptedly from the seacoast to the eastern plateau; but is divided into two unequal portions by the deep Jordan valley which
ends in an inland lake, known as the Dead Sea. Palestine embraces 10,429 square miles—an area equal in size to that of the State of Vermont—and includes a population of 1,600,000 (estimate of 1944), of which 550,000 are Jews. It is primarily an agricultural country. The principal crops are wheat, melons, grapes, olives, and figs. The citrus fruits are chiefly oranges and grapefruit. Wine making is an extensive industry. Minerals found are limestone, sandstone, and gypsum. The valley of the Jordan and the shores of the Dead Sea yield rock salt and sulphur.
Since 1920, Palestine has made remarkable economic progress, thanks to Jewish money and the initiative of the Zionists. More than $50,000,000 has been expended within the country during the last fifteen years. In addition to the reclamation of land and the increase of its agricultural productivity through extensive irrigation and intensive farming, much Zionist capital and labor have gone into projects of industrialization. Through the operation of the Palestine Electric Corporation, under the Rutenberg Commission, all the water power of the Jordan River has been utilized; under the direction of the Palestine Potash Limited, a Zionist corporation, not only a priceless supply of potash, but also bromides and other mineral salts have been extracted from the Dead Sea for commercial use. The Nesher Match Factory at Acre, and the Necker Cement and Shermen Oil Factories at Haifa are further examples of large scale industries.
Before World War I, there were in Palestine 1235 industrial undertakings, most of them Arab; in 1933, there were 5200, of which 3000 were Jewish, employing 16,000 workers. In 1937, the number of Jewish enterprises was 5,606, employing 20,549. The area of land in Jewish possession had increased from 102,150 acres, in 1926, to 250,000 in 1938. A Hebrew university was established at Jerusalem, in 1925.
Lastly, the Zionists have made a contribution of another and rather unexpected sort. They have organized model collective farms and various types of co-operative societies. These have made for solidarity in the Zionist communities and have, at the same time, furthered the economic welfare of the Arabs. The
examples of economic collaboration and co-operation. These societies, many of which are managed by the Histadruth, or Jewish Federation of Labor, cover banking, credit and insurance, contracting, transportation, marketing, irrigation, and even land purchasing. There are also producers' and consumers' co-operative associations.
IN all the perplexed and turbulent history of the Palestinian mandate (1922-1944), a few salient points need to be sufficiently clarified. The essence of the present Arab-Jewish tension emerges from certain facts, however much the facts themselves may appear to be obscured by accidental incidents. Two races inhabit Palestine today, both of which are there of right and not of sufferance. Both races are entitled to hope for national expansion, coupled with social and economic betterment; and both have cultural and spiritual affections with the land they share in common. Both peoples, too, advance claims based upon promises and commitments by the Allies, particularly Great Britain and France, which appear to be vaguely and quite inaccurately understood. Both races, in fact, are not necessarily or wholly incompatible, neither are they mutually antagonistic "except in so far as their respective and conflicting ambitions make them so." The crux of the problem is that both races are intensely nationalistic and aspire to political ascendancy.
The Arab case is based on three considerations: First, the Arabs were in actual possession of Palestine before World War I began. The population of Southern Syria was ninety per cent Arab in 1914, and Syria had been Arab since the seventh century A. D. Second, the Arab nationalists claim that they have earned the boon of independence, because they aided the British during World War I against the Turks. This fact, however, be it noted, is less true of the Palestinian Arabs (who did not rise as a body against the Turks) than of their kinsmen in other parts of Syria. Third, the Arabs of the Hedjaz and of Northern Syria had extracted a promise of independence from the British Government in October 1915, as the price of their collaboration with the Ain 1914, and Syria had been Arab since the seventh century A.D. Second, the Arab nationalists claim that they have earned the boon of independence, because they aided the British during World War I against the Turks. This fact, however, be it noted, is less true of the Palestinian Arabs (who did not rise as a body against the Truks) than of their kinsmen in other parts of Syria. Third, the Arabs of the Hedjaz and of Northern Syria had extracted a promise of independence from the British Government in October 1915, as the price of their collaboration with the Allies. This promise, embodied in the so-called McMahon Pledge (a communication written by British High Commissioner of Egypt, Sir Henry McMahon, to Sheriff Hussein of Mecca) granted political independence to the Arabs within certain territorial limits, and with the important reservation, note, that "British promises could be made with respect to those regions only wherein Great Britain was free to act without detriment to the interests of her ally, France." Furthermore, be it noted "Jerusalem and Palestine were never mentioned by name anywhere in the McMahon Pledge. By inference, however, Palestine was excluded." (Age of Conflict, page 397.) The first modification of the McMahon Pledge was made in May 1916, when Great Britain signed the Sykes-Picot Agreement with France and Russia. In this document, prospective areas of French control and spheres of influence were outlined. Thus the British gave specific recognition to the "French interests" referred to in the McMahon Pledge. 687 But, at the same time, the Sykes-Picot Agreement specifically provided for the erection of an independent Arab state or a confederation of Arab states; and it also made provision for the placing of Palestine and the Holy Places under a special international agency of control "with a view to securing the religious interests of the Entente Powers." Promises to the Jews with respect to Palestine were also made by the British, but subsequent in date to both the McMahon Pledge and the Sykes-Picot Agreement. The important Balfour Declaration of November 2, 1917 (a communication from Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs,' Alfred Balfour, to Lord Rothschild, leader of the Zionist Movement) stated that the British Government viewed with favor the founding in Palestine of a Jewish National Home, "it being clearly understood that nothing shall be done which may prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non-Jewish communities in Palestine." Again, it is important to note that the Jews were never promised that Palestine would be established as a predominantly Jewish state, but merely, that Palestine would become an area available for Jewish refugees who desired there to found for themselves a National Home. And here again is the crux of the question restated. Both Arabs and Jews, for nationalistic reasons, are determined to constitute the majority race in Palestine. UCH was the situation at the end of World War I; and British and Zionist officials at once sought to obtain Arab acquiescence to the fulfillments of their wartime commitments to both races in Palestine. At first they were successful. At Paris, in 1919, the Emir Feisal, official Arab representative at the Paris Peace Conference, showed a commendable willingness to collaborate. Feisal agreed to accept the Balfour Declaration, however, only on condition that the Allies set up a single Arab state in the interior, with its capital at Damascus. At the Conference, he is reported as saying: "If the Arabs were to rule a_ state stretching from Aleppo to Mecca, they could afford to allow Lord Balfour's small Palestinian notch to be occupied by the Jews." And his interesting comment: "The Jews are very Close to the Arabs in blood, and there is no conflict of character between the two races." (Age of Conflict, pages 399-400. ) But Feisal was doomed to disappointment. In March 1920, a Congress of Syrian Notables assembled at Damascus. On this occasion, Feisal was offered and accepted the crown of Syria and Palestine. This action, however, was at once repudiated by the Allies who forthwith called the fateful Conference of San Remo, where, in April 1920, the Council of the League of Nations conferred the mandates for Syria and Lebanon on France, and the mandate for Mesopotamia, Trans-Jordania, and Palestine on Great Britain. The wrath of the Arabs knew no bounds. Disappointed in not securing tacit recognition of an independent Greater Syrian Kingdom, the enraged Nationalists focused their opposition not only against the unpopular French-imposed mandates, but also against the aspirations of the Zionists in Palestine. It is also unfortunate that the San Remo Conference completely disregarded the recommendation of the King-Crane Commission, which, in 1919, had urged the incorporation of Syria, Lebanon, and Palestine into a single mandate because of the predominantly Arab population in these countries. This action of the San Remo Conference violated another. Promise, the Anglo-French Declaration of November 7, 1918, which had explicitly assured the peoples of Palestine, Syria, and Iraq that they were to have a voice in the eventual establishment of their prospective administrations. (To be continued )