		ANNA E. FULLER, Secy.

	Sunday, Nov. 2.—At the General Con-
ference of the Maricopa Stake R. S.,
President Mabel A. Hakes was hon-
orably released on account of her remov-
al to New Mexico, and Melissa Hunsaker
was sustained as Stake Prest. of the Mar-
icopa Relief Society, with Parmelia
Horne and Sophronia Stewart as her
counselors. At the close of the meeting
the sisters were set apart by Apostles F.
M. Lyman and Rudger Clawson.
						A. E. F.
		BOX ELDER STAKE.
	The conference of the Relief Society
of the Box Elder stake convened in the
Tabernacle, Brigham City, Tuesday, De-
cember 12, 1905, President Susannah P.
Booth presiding. Present beside Relief
society stake board, President Oleen N.
Stohl and Brother Jos. Burt.
	Conference opened with singing, prayer
and singing. Minutes of previous fore-
noon conference read and accepted.
	President S. P. Booth made opening
remarks, said we were willing to do any-
thing we could to make the meetings in-
teresting, so we could have better attend-
ance, bore her testimony, and spoke in
regard to “Mother’s work.”
	Prest. Mary Fredahl represented the
Elwood association in good running order,
had built a granary and had between 140
and 150 bushels of wheat.
	Prest. Sarah Fredahl reported Bear
River City society in good running order,
were united and held good meetings.
	Counselor Mary Perry represented Per-
ry association, said they had times of re-
joicing when they met together; spoke of
the “Mother’s work,” felt it was a grand
work, and had done much good, bore a
strong testimony to the goodness of God.
Sister Miller represented Thatcher associ-
ation, had an energetic band of sisters and
were doing as well as they possibly could.
Prest. Mary E. Ward reported Willard
society. The officers and teachers work
in love and harmony together, attendance
not as good as might be, held meetings
regularly. Prest. Elizabeth Loveland re-
ported Deweyville association; reported
a good time spent in visiting all through
their ward with the people, gathered
$31.60 from Sunday eggs, and bought
wheat; were all united in the Relief so-
ciety work. 
	President Oleen N. Stohl was pleased
to listen to the good reports given by the
sisters, felt to say God bless our mothers,
said a few words on the care of the poor,
spoke of the times in which we live and
the requirements made of us; spoke also
on punctuality and habits, our religion is
to us just what we make it; gave many
more good and timely instructions, asked
the blessing of God upon all.
	Morning session adjourned with singing
and prayer.
	2 p. m.—Afternoon session opened with
the usual exercises. Minutes of previous
afternoon conference read and approved.
Roll called, 13 associations represented.
	Prest. Annie C. Johnson reported Brig-
ham City 1st ward in usual condition,
held meetings and mother’s work regular-
ly. Prest. Emma Lee reported Brigham
City 3rd ward, felt the Relief society


[Column 1]
testimony meetings were about the best
meetings we hold, spoke on forming the
habit of attending meeting, felt we could
not be too thankful for the blessings we
receive. Prest. Annie C. Jensen reported
Mantua society in usual good condition,
were united, and the spirit of God was
with them, had 348 bushels of wheat.
Prest. Charlotte W. Boden reported
Brigham City 2nd ward, was thankful to
be one with the sisters in the blessings
and privileges she enjoyed, reported all
in good condition. President Sarah J.
Wilde of Brigham City 4th ward reported
having a good band of sisters who were
active and willing to do whatever called
upon to do. Sister Mary Wright was
pleased to be able to get out, had en-
joyed listening to the reports, thought the
Relief society was doing a good work,
felt well in the gospel and knew it was
true, said we were to have charity and
love for each other.
	A solo was rendered by Sister May
Hoops.
	Counselor Emelia D. Madsen spoke of
the early days and the association of
Prest. Harriet A. Snow, and the loving
kind words they received from the sisters
in those days, spoke on celebrating the
Prophet’s birthday, spoke a few words
on raffling, gave some directions to secre-
taries and the importance of keeping
dates, spoke a few words on the stake
board visiting around with the associa-
tions and how it was enjoyed, and of the
blessings received through prayer and ad-
ministration, gave many other good in-
structions.
	Sister Emma Vance said the Lord in-
spires the sisters to speak to us, and
cause us to feel refreshed in our minds,
and helps us to more fully appreciate our minds,
surroundings, spoke of the rearing and
responsibility of children, and urged the
sisters to do their duties in this regard.
	Stake Counselor Lucius A. Snow felt
to call attention to a piece in the Im-
provement Era in regard to the Prophet
Joseph Smith; related a circumstance in
relation to his mother and her great faith,
spoke of his mother’s death, and how the
evil had influence over him, and how
through the influence of his sister he got
rid of the evil which had possession of
him; referred to fault finding, and urged
all to help and strengthen each other.
	President S. P. Booth felt to thank the
brethren and sisters for the good counsel
given, felt the Spirit of God had been with
us, and made other good closing remarks.
	After singing Doxology, prayer was of-
fered, and conference adjourned for six
months.
			ANNIE K. LITTLEWOOD,
					Cor. Sec. pro tem.
		ALPINE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Alpine Stake was held at American Fork,
October 20th, 1905, President Rebecca
Standring presiding. After the opening
exercises President Standring made open-
ing remarks. Thought we ought to be
improved by the many teachings we have

[Column 2]
received lately. The Board are work-
ing hard for the benefit of the Society.
The teachings of the President at Con-
ference were very important. After re-
ports from some of the presidents, Coun-
selor Ida Smoot Dusenberry addressed
the meeting; she loved to meet the sisters
of the Relief Society and look in their
faces, it always gave her inspiration, can
see traces of a hard-working life. We
unconsciously recieve inspiration and a 
restful spirit; loved to look on the face of
President Bathsheba W. Smith and to see
the purity of spirit expressed in her fea-
tures. Spoke of her travels, her visit to
Rome and Italy, and her experience in
Portland at the Fair interspersed with
many pleasing reminiscences. “It is
through doing for others that our charac-
ters are being built up, the more charity
and love we can have the faster we are
growing. We are a charitable organiza-
tion, but it does not stop with the physic-
al but the intellect must be built up.
Spoke of motherhood and the importance
of home training and the necessity of liv-
ing in harmony. Life is made up of
little things, and let us cherish love, char-
ity and all the graces of the gospel.”
	Singing, “How firm a Foundation.”
Two of the presidents reported.
	President Jas. H. Clarke: “Are we fully
alive to our opportunities, have we the
confidence we should have in the princi-
ples of the church; except we receive and
enjoy the spirit of our organization, we
cannot do much good. How good it
would be if the sisters could open their
hearts to the teachers and receive in-
struction suitable to their condition. If
we had perfect confidence in each other
the instruction would be of the right
kind.” Believed we were advancing; “if
we had the entire love and confidence of
each other what a wonderful effect it
would have, and how much advancement
we should make.”
	Singing and Benediction. Adjourned
until 2 o’clook.
	Afternoon Session: President Standring
presiding. After the usual exercises,
President Standring said it was necessary
for us to come together and learn our
duty and to bless each other. Hoped we
would have a profitable time this after-
noon.
	Reports were given of Manila, Alpine,
and Cedar Fort. Song. “There’s work
for all,” Sisters Evans and Grant. Next
was an address by Counselor Annie C.
Hindley, “The duties of parents to chil-
dren, and the duties of children to par-
ents.”
	Singing. “Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.
	President Stephen L. Chipman said the
Presidency and Bishops appreciate the
efforts of the Relief Society and the sis-
ters may be congratulated on their in-
tegrity and faithfulness; he had been led
to reflect on the condition of the people.
Found that in the primary departments
of the schools the boys and girls seem
about equal in number, but as you move

[Column 3]
up to the higher classes the boys grow
scarcer. “Every mother has a desire
that her children should grow up good
Latter-day Saints. We have more moth-
ers than fathers who take an interest in
the advancement of the children. Chil-
dren are the heritage of the Lord and are
a glorious blessing. There is a great call
for young men in the mission field; the
Spirit of the Lord is operating on the
minds of the people and they are inquir-
ing for missionaries and information. The
Church is growing and we are becoming
more of a light set on a hill. Outsiders
cannot refrain from saying: “The Mor-
mons are a wonderful people.” How
many are trying to plant faith in the
hearts of the children. The harvest is
great and the laborers are few. There is
a call for 600 missionaries; mothers, with-
hold not your sons nor your daughters:
people who hear the stories against this
people are led to wonder and investigate
and they desire to know the truth. Take
courage, sisters, and don’t hinder your
boy from taking a mission if he is young,
and you will rejoice that he went.”
	Sister Sina Chipman gave an address on
Charity.
	President Abel J. Evans spoke of the
grand invocation of President Joseph F.
Smith at conference, when he blessed his
brethren and sisters each and all and
even his enemies, and asked the Lord to
forgive them until the people were melted
to tears, and he determined that as long
as he lived, he would never harbor a feel-
ing of animosity against any of his
brethren.
	President Standring felt to bless the
sisters, with their husbands, their families,
their homes and all their possessions.
Prayed for a blessing on all with salvation
in the presence of God.
	Singing “Praise God from Whom all
blessings flow.”
	Benediction by Sister Mary A. Webb.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
