	HYRUM STAKE CONFERENCE.

	The law of chastity should be observed
and we as parents are commanded to keep
our bodies undefiled and pure.
	Every wise and loving parent should de-
sire to bestow on their offspring whole-
ness and soundness in every part. No
one would think of conducting a common
primary school without an order of exer-
cises, and such a program of studies as
shall by progressive steps cover the whole
ground desired within the allotted time.
If the class or school was left to chance
or to the impulse of the moment it is pret-
ty certain much would be overlooked and
neglected, and much done out of place to
little purpose.
	It is important, then, that our habits
and traits and impulses should be such as
will bless and not curse our offspring, im-
portant to have all these sources of influ-
ences wholly on the side of nobleness
virtue and beauty of character in all re-
spects. To this end does it not behoove
every one who aspires to the God-like
honor of begetting a being in his or her
own likeness to first enter in thorough
and earnest upon the work of self-
improvement, self-discipline and moral
and spiritual purification? Can any
stronger motive of self-improvement be
presented to a conscientious person than
this consideration affords? We cannot
start too early in life to begin this work.
	Every child has rights which are as
sacred as those of any other being, and
among these is the right to be well-born.
This hardly need be said, except for the
thoughtlessness that often exists on the
subject, of the forming and nurturing a
young immortal being that is to enjoy or
suffer throughout its existence, and that
is to bless or curse its fellows on earth,
through unknown generations, according
to the characteristics stamped on it by
its parents.
	Parents should realize the responsibili-
ty involving upon them, and should act
with intelligent forethought and should
make the best preparation in themselves
and their surroundings.
	In the past so little regard has been
paid to the finer laws of adaptation, tem-
poral and spiritual, and so seldom has the
sacred right of the mother been delicate-
ly respected.

[Column 2]
	A child’s birthright includes a full lov-
ing welcome to the world; without this,
what a pitiable object is a child!
	There is aid at hand to help us if we
successfully seek and apply the agencies
within our reach. We must cease to use 
our stomachs and digestive powers for 
hot bread, pastry, greasy food and highly
spiced dishes. We must abstain from
narcotic and alcholic beverages, which
under the guise of stimulating only weak-
en and lower the tone of the nervous
system, creating a demand for more and 
more of the same deceptive stimulus un-
til the unfortunate victim comes to im-
agine them necessaries of life.
	We must have our homes and apart-
ments well ventilated, and we should con-
tent ourselves with the simple, nutritious,
healthy food, chiefly from the vegetable
kingdom, including cereals, fruits and
nuts which experience shows most con-
ducive to bodily soundness, mental vigor
and moral purity.

	Thought and feeling should also be pure
and elevating, there are reasons for be-
lieving that many physical and moral dis-
eases have their origin in impure
thoughts and evil passions. It is well known
that good-will, and generous affections
tend to promote health of body and 
mind, It may take several generations of
careful training and study on our part to
rid ourselves of the incorrect ideas and
practices that we have inherited, but
there should be a steady upward march.
Each generation should be an improve-
ment on its predecessor; we have been
called of God to gather out from Baby-
lon, and one of the main objects being
that we may be a purer and more perfect
people.
	There are things we should teach our
children from the heart, and which should
be accompanied by the spirit and power
of God, they are purity of thought and
life, correct habits and everything that
furnishes the child with a good, solid,
moral endowment. The work of per-
fecting ourselves may be delayed through
our not using the agencies at hand, but it
must be pushed forward if we would be
the people the Lord designed us to be.
The work is before us, and we may as
well apply ourselves with intelligence and
zeal. It is our highest duty as parents to
give our children our best thought and
attention, for the Lord has given them
as a precious trust, and if we allow them
to go astray through our neglect the con-
sequence will be serious. The personal
companionship of parents is of exceeding
value to our boys and girls, they should
have in their mother a friend, a playmate
and a companion, and should be on
the most intimate terms, so there will be
no concealment on the part of the child
in thought or action. Young people lack
experience, they are exposed to many
evils and fall frequently into many snares
which if their parents understood they
would be able to guard them against.
	Cleanliness is a part of our religion, we
are told that the Spirit of God will not 
dwell in an unclean tabernacle; this ap-
plies to the outside as well as the inside.
Many little children do not regard it as
any great pleasure, washing or being 
washed, but their pride should be ap-
pealed to, they should be made ashamed

[Column 3]
of a dirty face, then there will be no
trouble to have them keep clean. Let 
the sunshine stream in our houses, health
is more consequence than carpets; par-
rents should set the example in all these
matters, and the children will grow up in
an atmosphere of purity and cleanliness
and they will learn to shun everything
unclean and impure, and will take pleas-
ure in observing the laws of health with
the greatest care.
	In fact, to be pure in the sight of the
Lord great self denial is required through
life. The body and its appetites and de-
sires must be brought in subjection to the
spirit. If we could impress on our chil-
dren’s minds the wrong and injurious
effects of tea, coffee, tobacco and intox-
icating drinks and keep them from touch-
ing them, so they would not know the
taste of these articles while they are
growing, when they are grown they would
not crave them, and children brought up
free from the taste would not need to 
practice self-denial in this direction, but
would practice self-control instead, so as
not to taste them.
	Mothers too frequently let their little
children sip the tea and sometimes a little
beer that they themselves have been
drinking, and they think it is very innocent,
they do not think that by doing this they
are creating in their children the taste for
these beverages which may prove a 
plague to them through the rest of their 
lives. Teach them the importance of ab-
staining entirely from these things, and
have them understand the counsel which
the Lord Himself has given respecting 
them.
	Duty is always preferable to indulgence.
