		THE BOY PROPHET.
	One hundred years ago, in an obscure
town in the Green Mountain State, Ver-
mont, a baby boy first saw the light of 
day; this babe, as we know now, was
destined to bring about great changes in
the religious world and in the lives and 
fortunes of many peoples; changes for
the betterment of physical conditions as
well as to teach great truths with the 
wisdom not of books, or the learning 
gained from great teachers familiar with
sciences, or from men of higher educa-
tion, but with the understanding quick-
ened by the Holy Spirit that flows from 
the fountain of light, and is like a well-
spring of living water that never fails.
	Unless one accepts this theory it is not
possible to account for the marvelous
works which have been brought to pass
through the power of the Priesthood,
this boy received from those who came
and ministered unto him from the regions
of glory, the world of heavenly light.
Think what a wonderful manifestation
was given this lad when but fourteen 
years of age, he went into the woods to 
pray, to inquire of the Lord, which of all
the different churches was the right one.
	The boy was so wrought upon in the 
midst of a great religious revival that pre-
vailed in the vicinity, that he knew not 
what to do. He searched the Scriptures
for light and found the passage in the
Epistle of James which reads, “If any of
you lack wisdom let him ask of God who
giveth to all men liberally and upbraideth 
not and it shall be given him,” and this
young Joseph, with implicit faith, sought
the Lord in humility and prayer, he was
alone, it was his first prayer vocally, and
he felt the powerful influence of nature.
The poet says “the groves were God’s first
temples,” and no doubt like Jacob of old
he wrestled mightily in solemn prayer, 
and a voice from on high spoke to him, 
and directed him what course he must 
take. The world would not believe him.
Many times afterwards heavenly messen-
gers were sent to minister unto him, and
he suffered almost continuous persecution
because of unbelief.
	Subsequently he received knowledge of
the hidden record and translated it by the
gift and power of the Holy Ghost, the
work was beginning to grow, the restor-
ation of the Everlasting Gospel in the Lat-
ter-day dispensation.
	When one reflects upon what the
Prophet Joseph did in the few years he
was permitted to teach and preach, look-
ing at the matter as a serious problem,
taking the bare facts of the case into con-
sideration, an unlettered boy, one cannot
but feel it to be a marvel and a wonder.
Founding and organizing a church and
enunciating doctrines, that cannot be con-
troverted by the most celebrated divines
––a church that has held people together
as a body of religious worshippers for three

[Column 2]
quarters of a century, people too of many
nations, looking at it naturally it seems
incredible, and yet it has been demon-
strated in the eyes of the whole world. 
	Nothing could produce the effect of 
uniting together people of such a great
variety of nations, languages, customs,
habits and sentiments to live in peace and 
harmony and establish themselves in
communities, fulfilling temporal duties
and obligations except the Spirit of the
Lord; all testify alike of the divinity of
the Gospel as revealed though the Proph-
et Joseph Smith, and carried forward by
his successors in office down to the pres-
ent time.
	The truths proclaimed by the Prophet
Joseph have permeated the world, not
only has the Everlasting Gospel as taught
by the Savior and His Apostles been
preached in many lands and in thousands
of cities bringing converts by tens of thou-
sands, but the influence accompanying
these divine principles has spread like
the mustard seed, blown hither and thith-
er, and has developed a vast change of 
sentiment among the children of men,
light has come into the world, the glori-
ous, radiating light that will eventually
revolutionize the world of mankind, and
men yet unborn will come to acknowledge
the boy Prophet a great benefactor, as
well as Seer and Revelator.
	The saying of the celebrated Josiah
Quincy of Massachusetts, who visited the
Prophet Joseph Smith at Nauvoo, Ill.,
in company with Hon. Charles Francis
Adams, Sr., on the 15th of May, 1844,
forty-three days before the martyrdom,
has at present every likelihood of coming
to pass. In describing his impressions of
this man whom he saw, among other re-
marks in his published report, he made
use of the following language: “It is not
at all improbable that some text book for
the generations yet unborn might contain
this question: What historical American
of the nineteenth century has exerted the
most powerful influence upon the desti-
nies of his countrymen. And it is by no
means impossible that the answer might 
be Joseph Smith the Mormon Prophet.”
	The erection of the handsome and
durable marble monument on the spot
where this baby boy was born marks an
event that will mean much to the chil-
dren of Zion, more potent in creating
sentiment than volumes of written his-
tory; it is an object lesson that will be
of lasting duration, and will attract the
attention of strangers, as well as our own
people. 
	This hundredth anniversary has had a
telling effect in many ways; it has revived
old memories of those who knew the
Prophet personally, and brought out many
incidents of his life and recollections of
the man himself, his majestic appearance,
his commanding figure, his dignified bear-
ing, his gracious manner, his innate re-
finement, his spiritual eloquence, his great
gift of healing the sick and afflicted, and
in short everything pertaining to his re-
ligious, social and domestic life, that
could be told by those most familiar with
him under all the peculiar circumstances
that he had to meet and combat with,
in introducing and carrying forward the
work to which he had been called by
divine authority.
	Joseph Smith was as tender-hearted as
a little child, this is the testimony of all
and yet he had the courage of a lion, it is

[Column 3]
a true saying that “the gentlest are the
bravest.”
	Joseph Smith the Prophet was assured-
ly a philanthropist in the broadest accep-
tation of the term. In all his labors he
proved the philanthropic nature of his 
character. The Church he founded, hav-
ing been called of God, gave to man and
woman equal privileges of voting on all
subjects, and at that time, in 1830, such
a thing was unheard of, as far as our
knowledge of churches extends; and he
was the first man to organize the women
of the Church into a philanthropic so-
ciety, taking the initiative himself, retir-
ing from the meeting while they elected 
their own officers; advising them to ob-
serve parliamentary usage in their meet-
ings. This was March 17, 1842, long be-
fore woman’s organizations had become
a part and parcel of the world’s activities.
This benevolent society named by the few
women who met together in that first 
meeting “The Relief Society” has grown
and flourished ever since, and of the small
number assembled on that occasion, 
there is now just one representative. wo-
man to testify of the commencement of
that event which marks an epoch in the
progress of women in this “dispensation
of the fulness of times.” This woman,
Bathsheba W. Smith, is the General
President of the Society, that at the pres-
ent time reaches around the world, and
is not only national but international in
its scope, having branches in many for-
eign lands and on the islands of the sea,
and it is a favorite saying of its President
and others, that the sun never sets upon
the Relief Society, which is verily true.
	The women of the world who deride
the name and who defame the character
of Joseph Smith, should take a little time
to look up on his advanced ideas of wo-
manhood. His gentle, chivalrous and
reverential manner towards all women
was a distinguishing trait in the character
of this most remarkable and wonderful
man. One could not meet him even
casually without feeling the potent influ-
ence of the atmosphere that enveloped
him, as entirely different from other men
of the same period. Though he was in-
deed the greatest man of his time (that 
the writer has ever seen) yet one of his 
chief attributes was humility, and also
forbearance with the weaknesses and
frailties of those with whom he was
brought in contact.
	The Prophet Joseph Smith revealed to
this generation many mighty truths
hitherto unknown in the world of man-
kind, and the work founded by him has
brought salvation to many thousands,
and they have been shown how to live,
and what to do, that future happiness in
the family relation might be secured.
There is no other church that teaches
these fundamental truths. One of the 
greatest testimonies of the divinity of
the Latter-day work established by the 
Prophet Joseph through revelation and
authority from on high is the knowledge
obtained concerning sacred temples,
wherein holy ordinances are performed
for the living and the dead. To those who
have entered into this sublime work with
pure hearts, it has given them higher
views of this life, and has opened up
vistas of light and understanding that no
gold or riches could purchase from them.
Can one imagine greater progress than
this, the unfolding of hidden mysteries,


the receiving of keys to open doors closed
for centuries, whereby those who sit in
darkness may be admitted into light and
be eventually redeemed and partake of the
blessings promised through the ordinances
of the Gospel?
	The recent visit of President Joseph F.
Smith to the State of Vermont is an 
event of great significance more so than
has yet appeared. Greater things will
grow out of this journey than even the
dedication of this beautiful monument,
which is in itself a splendid tribute to the
martyred Prophet, and although much
has been accomplished among many peo-
ples of many lands, since the Prophet
Joseph Smith was born, yet greater works
are yet to come, and those who live to-
day will see more temples reared, to the
name of the Lord, more waste places
made habitable, and though calamities
may come, and wars not cease, and the
very elements of the earth be in commo-
tion as has been prophesied not only by
ancient prophets but by the Prophet
Joseph Smith in this our day, yet Zion
will prosper and grow famous, and those
who are faithful and true will have part
in the blessings that will be poured out
in rich abundance upon this glorious
land, America.


