	BY MAUD BAGGARLEY.

Misty and blue, the firs of Mount Tabor
	The glory of sunset crimsoning the west,
The warm ocean breeze, the sea’s benediction,
	Stirs gently the forest, then lulls it to rest.

Now, the streets of an alien city;
	Mountains bare and high;
The far off gleam of an inland sea,
Instead of the river rushing free;
	And the blue of an alien sky.

Oh, for the sound of the wind in the fir trees;
	The down-sift ng gold of the sun thro’ the pine,
And the dear Willamette dimpling in sunshine,
	Oh, Oregon, Oregon mine!

To the land where Thy people dwell,
	Thy hand of mercy hath led,
Thy will shall be done while life doth last
	But oh, when I am dead
Wilt Thou let me sleep the long, long sleep
	With the friends I loved in youth,
Where the golden hours of childhood fled
	And the world seemed bright with truth?
		When I am dead!


[Column 1]
	THE SEA OF GALILEE
O, Galilee sweet Galilee,
	Where Jesus loved so much to be;
O, Galilee, blue Galilee,
	Come sing your songs again to me.
	An inspiration comes with the sweet
notes of this song, when sung by choir or
congregation, but it is intensified, even
thrilling when they float far away, and
away, over the bosom of that beautiful
sea.
	Think of Galilee, where Jesus taught
the multitude on its shore; where he
called, Peter, Andrew, James and John
the fishermen, who gained a livelihood in
its waters, saying, “follow me, and I will
make you fishers of men.”
	As we sail oyer this sacred sea, visiting

[Column 2]
Capernaum, Bethsaida and Magdala, and
passing the land of the Gergesesenes,
where the swine, possessed of the evil
spirits ran down into the sea, from the
other boats the melody is wafted on the
stilly air.
	O, Galilee, sweet Galilee.
	Where Jesus loved so much to be.
	And those days seem to be here, those
scenes of the present.
	Once, long ago, the apostles were row-
ing across the sea the Savior asleep in the
boat, when suddenly a storm arose and
they, fearing a watery grave, called to
him, “to save or we perish.”
	Wearied he slept heeding neither winds
or waves, but at their call he arose, and
rebuked the storm, saying to the angry
sea, “Peace, be still.”
	A feeling of restfulness and peace, is
there, over Galilee. Though nearly two
thousand years have elapsed since then,
the spirit of peace, seems hovering over
both sea and shore.
	Yes, Galilee was loved by Jesus, and
many mighty works, he performed there.
Peter and his companions thought him a
spirit, when they in the boat saw him
walking out to them on the water, and
Peter, so venturesome, yet having little
faith would have perished, had not Jesus
saved him.
	Often Jesus was weary, with preaching
and teaching, the spirit of man was so un-
responsive to his own, that it weighed
heavily upon him, or he grieved for their
weakness, or yearned over them as they
followed him, that he sailed away from
them, to find the rest, that he so much
required.
	O, Galilee, blue Galilee,
	Come sing your songs again to me.
	The first sight one catches of Galilee, is
so beautiful! The water is a peculiar
shade of light blue, the bluest ever seen.
On descending the hills to Tiberias, the
paint on hotels and houses is of the same
color. No wonder the song extols, “Blue
Galilee,” but sailing on its shining bosom
lo, the water is green, green as can be!
	Come sing your songs again to me.
	Yes, sing your songs, they are melod-
ious as no other songs can be, for no
others, were ever like unto them. The
pebbly shore, the cloud flecked sky, the
dreamy hills, all sing of Jesus, who loved
to be here, so much.
	Here he returned after his resurrection
visiting once again beloved Galilee.
Where are the hosts, who once lived
round about? Where the fishermen with
heavy nets of fish? Gone, all are gone.
Not a voice is heard, not a form to be
seen.
	Scarcely a sound comes even from
Tiberias, with its synagogues and mosques,
whose noonday call to prayer, only sounds
as a babble. Deserted, a mist rising be-
tween the sea and shore, this is Galilee.
	The actors in its past, visit the sea no
more, the heavens have received them,
and in the earth are hidden, the glories
of Christ’s day. But a restoration day
and a resurrection day, await this beloved
spot of Christ’s earthly ministry.
