REORGANIZATION 22ND WARD, CITY.
	A special meeting of the 22nd Ward
Relief Society was called June 14, 1904.
Bishop Alfred Solomon presided. On
the stand were Bishop Alfred Solomon,
Counselors John L. Nebeker and Arthur
Winter, also Counselor Georgina Fox
Young of the Salt Lake Stake Relief
Society and Coun. Elizabeth H. Davis of
the 22nd Ward Relief Society.
	Bishop Solomon stated the purpose of
the meeting. He spoke of the good work
President Rachel Whipple had done.
She had been faithful and true to the pos-
ition she had held. He also spoke of the
faithfulness of her Counselors.
	President Rachel Whipple and Coun-
selor Maria L. Nebeker were honorably
released with the best wishes and love of
all. Bishop Solomon said the duties of
the Relief Society are great and urged
the sisters to visit the homes of those who
are bowed down with sorrow. He said
he hoped that the sisters would be willing
to accept and sustain those who would be
placed before them for their accept-
ance.
	Sister Elizabeth H. Davis was then
chosen to be President of the 22nd Ward
Relief Society with Mary L. Solomon as
her first and Harriet Maria James as her
second Counselors. All were unanimous-
ly sustained.
	Counselor John L. Nebeker spoke of
his regret at not seeing more of the sis-
ters present. Said he regarded the posi-


tion of a Relief Society teacher as a great
responsibility.
	Counselor Arthur Winter spoke for a
short time on the good that the Relief
Society had done in the Church. He
said he considered it second to none of
the auxiliary organizations. Sister Geor-
gina Fox Young of the Stake Relief
Society spoke of the wisdom in reorganiz-
ing. We can gain much by doing charity
work. Sisters Elizabeth Davis, Mary L.
Solomon and Harriet M. James each ex-
pressed a willingness to fill the positions
assigned them. Sister Lula Winn was
then chosen to act as Secretary, and ex-
pressed her willingness to act in the posi-
tion.
	The above sisters were then set apart
to their various positions under the hands
of Bishop Solomon, Counselor Arthur
Winter and Elder John Kingdon. After
singing and benediction, meeting ad-
journed.
		HARRIET JAMES, Secretary.


[Column 1]
		MARICOPA STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the
Maricopa Stake was held Nov. 23rd, in
the Mesa R. S, Hall, commencing at 2
o’clock, with First Counselor Melissa
Hunsaker presiding. Attendance of 36
officers and members and two brethren of
the Stake presidency.
	After opening remarks, Prest. Florence
A. Dana reported the Mesa ward to be in
good condition. They have nearly fin-
ished the mothers’ work program. Prest.
Sophronia Stewart said the attendance at
the Alma ward was not as good as she
would like. They have reading from the
Doctrine and Covenants and mothers’
work lectures. Counselor Hunsaker said
all the wards had been visited and all
were striving to do right, Stake Secre-
tary Anna E. Fuller reported the Pine
ward in good condition both spiritually
and temporally. They have the mothers’
work lectures. Coun. Parmelia Horne
had visited the Mesa and Lehi wards
since returning home, but Lehi held no
meeting.
	Coun. Wm. J. LeBaron said that faith
without works is dead. Helping others
awakens in the human heart a love of the
Lord. The good results of the labors of
the Relief Society are truly felt when we
are in need, and the good we do comes
back to us in blessings; many opportuni-
ties are lost by those who are not organ-
ized in their wards for Relief Society
work. Other denominations are follow-
ing in our footsteps. Let our example be
worthy for them to follow.
	Coun. Isaac Dana said we will be judged
by our works and the records we make
here. The riches of eternity are gained
by the faithful.
	Stake Missionary Sarah M. Pomeroy
said that those who do not take hold in
this work are the losers. She rejoiced in
the gospel and was glad to help the
needy. Eliza Leavitt and Sarah Vance
bore testimony. Alice Richens said she
never forgot meeting days, and felt it to
be our duty to carry on this work. Bar-
bara Lang was glad to meet with the sis-
ters again. Had greatly enjoyed her visit
with relatives in the East, and had ob-
tained some genealogy and hoped to be
able to do some work for relatives who
are dead.
	Counselor Hunsaker made a few closing

[Column 2]
remarks and thanked the brethren for
meeting with us.
	Singing and benediction. Conference
adjourned.
