OBITUARY.
	Tribute to the memory of Sister Jane M. Car-
ington Young, who departed this life, November
10, 1905.
	The news of the sudden death of “Aunt Jane
Young,” as she was affectionately called, came as
a painful shock to her family and many friends,
for although she had not been in good health for
some time, she was ever cheerful and hopeful, and
a regular attendant at all Relief Society meetings,
as also all ward meetings and the Sunday School,
and had successfully performed each duty and
labor devolving upon her, never resting from her
toil till the Master called her home.
	Sister Young was an example of unselfish devo-
tion to her husband, children, friends, and all
with whom she was associated. As a member of
the 17th Ward Relief Society, she labored unceas-
ingly, acting as treasurer of the association, she
was also the chairman of the work committee. In
this capacity she was unexcelled, no task being too
hard for her to undertake, all were willingly,
cheerfully performed.
	She visited the sick and afflicted, ministering to
their temporal needs as far as her circumstances
would permit, not only sharing her means but car-
rying them beautiful flowers, of which she was
very fond and labored diligently to care for, but
giving them her time, cheerful presence, spiritual
help and encouragement.
	Sister Young passed from mortality without
pain or suffering and although the call came sud-
denly, she was ready, and to all who know her
life’s labors comes the conviction that of her it can
be said, “All is well.”—Com.
	Tribute to the memory of Sister Ursula Rumel.
When it became known that Sister Rumel had
been called to the great beyond keen sorrow filled
the hearts of her family, friends and associates, for
although she had suffered severely for some time,
yet because of her children, who are left without
father or mother, from our human standpoint it
seemed that she could hardly be spared, but even
in our most severe afflictions we feel to look
to our Heavenly Father whom we know,
‘doeth all things well,” trusting in His infinite
mercy and loving care for all His children; and
thus becoming reconciled to every dispensation of
His providence.
	Sister Rumel was a woman whom to know was
to love; An affectionate, devoted wife; a true
mother in the fullest sense of the word, her unself-
ish devotion to her family knew no bounds. Being


left a widow many years ago, she has struggled
bravely, cheerfully and patiently to fulfill her duty
to her children, her associates and her God. All
who knew her can testify that she succeeded in
her noble and high aims. Before her health failed
she was an active, intelllgent worker in the Relief
Society, visiting the sick and afflicted in the capac-
ity of a teacher, and performing every duty of
that calling to the satisfaction of her associates.
	Her life has been a beautiful and exemplary one
and we have joy and comfort in the knowledge
that she is entitled to all the blessings promised to
the faithful. ---Com.


