EDITORIAL NOTES.
	We acknowledge with grateful thanks
the gift of the Primary Song Book pre-
pared by the General Board of the Prim-
ary Association, for the children of Zion.
Many of the songs are new, which will
particularly recommend it to favor with
the little people who are always delighted
with something new. The Primary Gen-
eral Board are to be congratulated on the
success they are making in all depart-
ments of their work. The Children’s
Friend is ably conducted, and contains in
every issue the best material possible to
assist those who have charge in the wards
in making their work interesting and in-
structive, and not tedious to the little
ones. It is wonderful how the work has
grown and what has been accomplished
for the little people, and singing is one of
the chief attractions, of the meetings.
Welcome every new original song, the
songs of a people are repeated when ser-
mons are forgotten.

	The Woman’s Journal of Boston, Mass.,
mentions the death of one quite well
known to the writer and to some of our
Utah people. Mrs. Jane Spafford whose
husband kept the Riggs House in Wash-
ington, D. C., for many years. It was
quite a popular hotel and Mr. and Mrs.
Spafford were always most genial, and
both were the very soul of kindness and
hospitality. They were both equal suf-
fragists and their hotel was Woman Suf-
frage headquarters, for conventions, etc.,
for many years. Mrs. Spafford was treas-
urer for the National W. S. A. many
years until she left Washington to reside
in Maine, her native state. She died at
her own home in Hampden, Maine, about
the twentieth of December. The journal
will publish the “In Memoriam,” from
which we shall be glad to glean some
items for our paper. Mrs. Spafford was a
close friend of Miss Susan B. Anthony
and Mrs. Stanton who passed away some
years ago. She was a magnificent woman
in figure and appearance, one never to be


forgotten, her snow white hair and digni-
fied carriage, her sweet face and gracious
manner distinguished her in her own
home and wherever she appeared in pub-
lic.


