BY LYDIA D. ALDRR.

Edith, my love, I bid thee no farewell,
	To go means but to return, some other day,
	The while. through showers and sun, flowers
		bloom more gay,
	The green tints deepen in the leafy dell.

Change now has come,our paths in life must part;
	But winding ever, they will meet again.
	Sometime, somewhere, in pleasure, not in pain
Together they will flow, dear heart, dear heart.

Ere time was measured we, 'mong morning stars
	Sang peans as the world rolled out in space;
	All there were of the royal, princely race,
Yet could we not see clear, through heaven's bars.

To us unknown, the power, the depth of love,
	For contrast had no meaning for us yet—
	We saw the shining world—dost thou forget?—
And deathless stars, like jewels, interwoven.

To go, to tread the outstretched grassy way,
	All else we thought as nothing—glad to leave—
	How could we feel the cross, see things that
		grieve,
	For glamor of the bright, eternal day?

We, o'ver heaven's ramparts peeped, it seemed not 
		far,
	Nor hard for us the dazzling crown to win,
	For in our hearts was never thought of sin—
No shadow there that could the landscape mar.

I held thy hand—for thou wast near to me—
	While gazing on the glorious sphere in sight;
	The way defined, the end a blaze of light
And glory, that again, some day we'll see.

We importuned, and at the last are here,
	Love, now we know has many thorns and tears,
	And disappointments throng the passing years;
And all we prize full oft lies on the bier.

Now, like as Gods, the bitter-sweet we know,
	The corresponding care of every joy;
	Can segregate the gold from base alloy,
And love this life, foreknowledge did bestow.

Then count but gain all things we have to bear;
	If sorrow comes, then it is well to weep;
	If joy, then this remembrance ever keep,
To learn, to know, we left the realms o'er there.

Congenial hearts, are those we knew before;
	'Tis but a veil drawn close before our eyes,
	That all the glory hides of Paradise—
A moment, and we'll dwell there evermore.

A child no longer, as in days of old;
	Celestial home, we prize thee, know thy cost—
	We wandered in the world and were not lost;
Again, O joy! we walk in streets of gold.


