PASSING THOUGHTS. 
	"The beauty of the house is order; the blessing
of the house is contentment; the glory of the
house is hospitality; the crown of the house is
godliness."
	Not one of the above virtues is denied
the home of any one, rich and poor alike
may be the proud possessors. It neither
takes fine furnishings nor rich draperies
to possess order. The humble, plain and
simple articles, if kept in place and neat-
ness, will render the home beautiful;
while the costly and rare furnishings, if
kept in confusion, will produce a jarring
and unpleasant effect.
	No matter how much or what some
people possess, there is always a desire for
something else—a covetousness and envy
that renders life unpleasant, not only for
the one so built; but for those who have
to live near such a person. How very
few there are in this world with that hap-
py content of The Miller of the Dee, and
yet how blessed are those who are con-
tent with doing right and making the
most and the best of their surroundings
and circumstances. Contentment renders
the home life smooth, tranquil, and brings
the blessing of peace.
	How delightful to enter a home and
feel in the very atmosphere a welcome.
No elaborate preparations for the formal
receiving of guests is necessary to make
one rejoice in the glory of the house, but
just the simple friendliness of a smile and
extended hand, which silently says, "We
are glad of your coming, enter, what we
have is yours,"
	Such a home, with these possessions,
surely has a claim to the crown of god-
liness. For the spirit of love, which is
the greatest of all things, pervades the
home where hospitality, contentment and
order dwell.
	Nearly three quarters of a century has
passed since the book of revelations
known as the Doctrine and Covenants,
was given to the world. And the world
laughed at and scorned the work from
that day to this. Only the few honest in
heart received it in the spirit in which it
was given; but as time goes on and
thought advances, the scientists and
philosophers of this age keep advancing
and bringing forth works and regulations
for mankind, all in keeping with this
wondrous book—the Word of Wisdom is
only one example. All over the world
now, those who have at heart the idea
of preserving one's body and mind in
clear and pure condition for long useful-
ness, teach them the Word of Wisdom,
call it what they may—"The New
Thought." "The Ralston," "The Health
Food," or any other name. They eat
simply very little, if any, meat, abstinence
from liquor, tobacco and hot drinks and
utmost watch and care of the body. Yet
the Latter-day Saints, with all their
teaching and knowledge, have been slow
to follow the word of the Lord in this
respect. It was given as a command,
like other commands have been given us
and reason proves the wisdom and bless-
ing of it. A. W. C.


