			THE WORLD.

List to the sound—that rolling chime,
Hark! ’tis the busy knell of Time;
The year has gone,
And borne along the hopes and fears,
The smiles and tears of multitudes unknown to
	song. 
					E. R. SNOW.
	The closing year of 1905, which is the
hundredth birthday of the Prophet stirs
my mind with a multitude of thoughts.
	In fancy I go back to my childhood and
youth in Virginia—Elders come crying,
“Repent and be baptized for the king-
dom of heaven is at hand,” and, as of 
yore, I am stirred with the glad tidings of
the restoration of the Gospel of Christ;
once again I gather with the Saints in 
Missouri, and hear the horrid yells of the
mobbers as Joseph and Hyrum are cap-
tured by them. I see the wounded and
dying; I am driven from Missouri, but
meet with joy at Quincy, in a conference
of the Church, Joseph and Hyrum, and
the Apostles, who are there called to
to labor in Europe.
	The Prophet I recall and his wondrous
spiritual power, intelligence loving kind-
ness, and great goodn[-]ss of heart! His
sermons, sayings, the organization of our
own Relief Society in 1842. His revela-
tions, persecutions, martyrdom and the
grief of the Saints thereat. There is
little left save our homes and families in
this world, but the Gospel becomes even
more to me: now follows the burning of
our homes and the forced exodus from
Nauvoo in the dead of winter. The ele-
ments rage upon and about us, but we
are able to endure, to rest at last, though
in the shadow of death, as it were, for 
here we part with a multitude of our
loved ones. But, rising from our weak-
ness, in obedience to the servants of the
Most High, we proceed, crossing trackless
plains, fording swollen streams, scaling
rugged mountain heights, and descending
into “The Valley,” to find rest from per-
secution and comfort in the desert.
	All the events of those trying years
unite today, revealing to me in the even-
ing of life, the overshadowing importance
of the plan of salvation. A comforting
message from the Giver of all good seems
to give me this sweet assurance that 
nought that was suffered and nought that
was accomplished, no matter how dear
the price, was without avail; yea, our
wounds were seared over with wisdom,
pain gave birth to patience, and our mar-
tyred Saints rose, peradventure, our best
petitioners in the courts above.
	And I am convinced that it were bet-
ter to be faithful and enduring to the end
showing worthiness in overmastering self
and upholding the standard of truth, than
to rest in apathy and ease, forgetful of 
God and unmindful of the weak, the 
weary and desolate.

[Column 2]
	It is good to reflect on the past, but
beyond and above its shades of sorrow,
and errors, our duty ever rises before
us.

	Soothe the sad, succor the oppressed,
	Visit the widow and the fatherless.

	To go from house to house, seeking out 
the poor, the cast down, minister to the
sick, lay out the dead, gathering and dis-
tributing, as you ha[-]e done, my sisters,
for so many years, gifts and donations for
relief. 
	And yet we have a larger mission—to
teach the mother to rear her young in
simplicity and in truth and virtue, that
happy home circles may abound in our
midst.
	And yet we have still a greater mission.
We faint not in our efforts to teach 
others but display a great lack of true re-
ligion, when our own faults remain un-
mended. When will we learn that the 
beam is in our own eye and the mote only
disturbs the vision of our neighbor. 
	We are called upon by the still small
voice, a whispering from our Father, to 
work out our own salvation.
	Briefly the constructive parts of the
plan of salvation are these: What man
is, God once was, what God is now, man
may be; the glory of God is intelligence.
Nothing can be annihilated and no act
lost. It is impossible to be saved in ig-
norance. The Spirit of God, which is 
the Holy Ghost and the comforter, sur-
rounds us and pervades the universe, and
is the medium by which we may receive
the inspiration of God toward intelligence
and through which it is our right to re-
ceive comfort; and finally that Faith
Hope and Charity are necessary for 
Divine Grace but that the greatest of these
is charity!
	Therefore it is plainly necessary that
women as well as men, cease not while
life lasts to study diligently, for the know-
ledge which is of greatest worth. To me
the best step towards this is for us to 
throw off the cu se of drudgery by learn-
ing to do our work so well, that we will
love to do it and have cause for rejoicing
over the achievements of our hands.
	Let us learn of the handiwork of God
by the study of nature, search out her
flowers, her moods, her laws. Let us 
study to improve our thoughts, reaching
up toward our Heavenly Father, praying
for the inspiration of the Holy Ghost.
	Let us improve our language in our
homes and among our children that our
words be not idle complaining nor vain,
but as nothing can be lost, cheerful, hope-
ful, intelligent, reflecting a charitable
spirit.
	Let us open the books of life and sal-
vation, and study also the great authors
poets and painters, that our minds may
be clothed with intelligence and our
hearts abound with human feeling.
	And here I am inclined to offer a 
thought for the year’s work before us.
With our multifarious duties we may not
be able to call upon some aged or invalid


sister, to cheer her, but we may lend her
a book to read at pleasure, and peradven-
ture to the strengthening of her purpose,
the cheering of her life and the edification
of her mind. Likewise after reading a
good book, pass it to a sister saying I
commend this book to you. It has in-
structed me and may edify you, and when
you have read, return, that I may lend
again.
	Another thought: Having done your
part well be satisfied to relinquish the
load to some stronger woman when you
become weary.
	And now my sisters, God's choicest
blessings be upon you, and peace be with
you.
		      BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
   President of the Church Relief Society
in all the World.


