[Vol24 | November 1937 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Article | Title: SCRIPTURAL READING IN THE HOME]

THE home project of scriptural reading was intended not only for the members of Relief Society, but also for their families.

If children are to be equipped for the future, for a fuller appreciation of life, for leadership in the Church and for the making of effective missionaries, they must be well versed in the Scriptures.

One cannot be truly educated without a knowledge of the Bible. It is the greatest book of the civilized world, and has had a greater influence on the lives of people than any other book. It has molded religious beliefs, ethical and moral codes, and laws and relationships to one another. Much of the great art and literature of the world has had its inspiration and source in the Bible. Modern literature abounds with allusions to it, or quotations from it.

Parents of former days felt the responsibility of teaching their children the Bible, and insisted on scriptural reading and the learning of many of its passages. For the most part modern children do not receive such training in their homes. They miss the spiritual fortification and soul development, as well as the educational advantages, that such training gives. The home misses being the significant unifying and stabilizing power it should be.

This year our project is to read the four Gospels from the New Testament with our families. In study of the life of the Savior and His ministry, there will be a real opportunity to bring to the children the great fundamental truths of the gospel that they may shape their lives in conformity to these. Only by following His teachings can they experience the complete life, and know of a certainty that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the Living God.

In teaching children to understand and enjoy reading the Scriptures, care should be taken to choose those passages that are suitable for their age and experience. A mother who knows her children will know what appeals to them most, and will use that approach to further spiritual feeding. Get the children in a receptive mood, much as Jesus did His listeners. Tell a story or ask questions that will open the way for the consideration of the subject.

The value of memorizing important passages should be emphasized. A chapter in its entirety could be learned. Its poetic beauty will create a love for fine literature. Its spiritual content and wisdom will develop and guide the soul. Care should be taken that the personality of the Savior be presented in the right light. Oftentimes children, especially boys, are not attracted to a meek and lowly being who never did any wrong. But they will admire a vigorous, courageous man, whose wisdom saw the truth through the chaff of prevailing customs and beliefs, and who was not afraid to attack insincerity and hypocrisy even when displayed by the high priests and rulers. Young people will glory in His righteous anger when He cleansed the temple of the money changers, as well as in His cleverness in answering those who wished to incriminate Him. When they accused Him of breaking the Sabbath, He answered them by asking "Is it lawful on the Sabbath Day to do good or to do evil, to save life or to destroy it?"

Children will enjoy being shown how appropriately His parables fitted both the people, to whom He was talking and the things He wished to teach and they will also appreciate the literary perfection. The Prodigal Son is without a peer in the realm of the short story.

Parents should begin early with the children, as their influence is great then; tell the story, for example, of the birth of the Savior in a simple realistic way, quoting often "And the angel said, Fear not, for behold I bring you good tidings of great joy," etc.

If father working in cooperation with mother, will make special effort to have these occasions pleasant, with a feeling of love and trust in each other, and a happy companionship with all, great good will result. Not only will the Scriptures be learned and loved, but there will be a stronger, more closely knit family unit. As Tolstoy has truly said, "Where love is, there God is also."

Home night, or an hour set apart for the family, will be a splendid place for scriptural reading. Allow each one his turn in choosing, reading or quoting his favorite verses.

I know our Heavenly Father will come to the aid, and will enhance and compensate the earnest endeavors of parents who beseech Him in prayer, that they may in wisdom teach their children to read "the way of Life unto Salvation" so that the children in turn will want to take the high road unto Life Eternal.