[Vol24 | November 1937 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Guide | Title: TEACHER TOPIC]

TEACHER TOPIC DEPARTMENT Belle S. Spafford, Chairman
PREVIEW OF TEACHER TOPIC FOR 1937-38 Amy W. Evans, Member of General Board
THE Relief Society Visiting Teachers this year will approach with reverent spirit and prayerful hearts, the study of "The Character of Jesus." With reverent spirit, because His is the greatest character ever known, our divine pattern, our Savior! With prayerful hearts, in
order to keep in spiritual harmony with Him.
It is not the purpose in the nine lessons to consider more than a few of His character-traits, and these in a simple way, not elaborating, taking from the New Testament illustrations of character and incidents in His life. The purpose of this study is to create such a sincere and fervent admiration for Him in our hearts, and in the hearts of those we visit, that we and they will aspire with whole souls to be more like Him.
Plutarch said, "Character is simply habit long continued." In the goings and comings of our daily lives we form our characters. The first character trait to be considered is the strength of Jesus. The power to master Himself was a part of His strength. Would it not be profitable for us, as teachers, during that month to see to what extent we can master self, and thus incorporate, at least in some degree, this quality into our own characters. Likewise, when His firmness is the subject, for us to check ourselves and see if we have stood firm when tempted to sacrifice principle for expediency. His optimism should increase our faith in others and help us to be "one of those happy souls which are the salt of the earth." Can we not keep His patience in mind for a month and by so doing be more pa-
tient and forgiving with the faults of others? And in the same way His humility will help us to be more teachable, less vain and ambitious, and His poise will give us better balance. His friendliness, His reasonableness, His courage we might try to emulate month by month as we study.
This method may seem a simple one but it is a very effective one in forming desirable habits, and, as has been said, character is simply habit long continued. We would suggest that in order to attain the great objective of the