[Vol24 | November 1937 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Editorial | Title: The Light that]
11
Editorial The Light That Shineth "THE unprecedented attendance, the enthusiasm, and the spiritual fervor exhibited at the recent Conference, give evidence of the eagerness of the Church membership to partake of the instruction and inspiration of those chosen to lead. The recognition and respect now accorded the Church challenges the membership to renewed endeavor in upholding Latter-day Saint ideals and standards. Our venerable Prophet, bearing a powerful testimony of the truth of the Gospel, calls upon each individual to cling fast to the faith, to observe the laws and keep the commandments. "And by hearkening to observe all the words which I, the Lord their God, shall speak unto them, they shall never cease to prevail until the kingdoms of the world are subdued under my feet and the earth is given unto the Saints, to possess it forever and ever. "For they were set to be a light unto the world, and the saviors of men." ?D. C. 103:7-9. President Grant's confidence, as expressed at the Relief Society conference, in the faith, spirituality and industry of the women of the Church as builders, must be maintained. They set the standards and lay the foundations for future leadership. Only as they fit themselves by obedience to the laws and commandments of the Gospel may they wield that influence essential to the greater growth and development of this Church. Only by individual adherence to the laws and teachings of the Gospel may we become the light that shineth and the saviors of men.
Relief Society Conference
OPENING SESSION September 29 and 30, 1937 By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secy.
OFFICERS' MEETING
THE semi-annual conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City, Utah, September 29 and 30, 1937, with 20 board members, and representatives from 17 Missions and 116 Stakes. The following is the attendance at the officers' Meeting: Mission Presidents 17; Stake Presidents 85; Counselors 119; Secretaries 42; Board Members 388; Total attendance 651.
