[Vol24 | November 1937 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Home
DO we stress the little things too much? Are we prone to overdo them? My mother used to teach us to take care of the little things, tie up all the little ends, before we tackled a big job. Never were we allowed to settle down to a book, our lessons, or the dress we were sewing until the little household tasks had been performed, the dishes, the dusting, the bed making.

When all of this was in order then we were ready for the tasks that required greater concentration. And we found it easier to concentrate in a room of orderly surroundings. "Do the little things first and the big ones will automatically take care of themselves," was the formula of my mother's philosophy. And, I have always found it good.

least where it showed. And what an array of soggy, burned cookies and cakes we had! Mother liked them though, everything, at least she said so in her superlative optimistic way and we felt perfectly happy and contented with it all.

Every time mother returned from even a short stay away she had some surprise done up in a very secret way in her suitcase. I know now that all the dainties, oranges, or candy, or cakes, or apples that came secretly from that bag were things that had been given to her and which she wouldn't eat in order to have a happy surprise for her children. Often they were hard and dried or crumbled, but tasted delicious beyond expression to us then. Mother didn't like oranges. I thought as a child that it was such a fortunate dislike for us and now I believe she didn't like them just on purpose so we could have them and not realize she was denying them to herself which would have partly spoiled them for us.

HOME comings were always joyous in our home. They were real occasions whether our stay from home had been long or short. And they were so happy because of the parents and children there and the little things they did and said. It wasn't only because the mother was well and strong and able to clean and cook and run down the lane to welcome us home although these things were inseparable with our home comings. It was rather because of the joyous spirit of the mother who was there, her confidence in her children, the security they knew was theirs in their mother's almost blinded exaggeration of their perfection. If she had been flat on her back as some mothers are, I think it would have been the same. Then we would have gone in to her. A real home coming is not a reunion of the bodies of the members of a family only; it is the reunion and revitalization of their spirits.