[Vol24 | November 1937 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Conference]

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE eat them at the present time? Let these apples develop in the light and heat of the sun, and in due course of time you will have magnificent fruit that can be eaten and enjoyed and whose agreeable aroma will fill a room. So it is with human souls, as teachers representing the Christ, let us love our fellowmen and those whom we contact, for what they may be as well as for what they are. 721
Christ's influence is still in the world, although the forces of evil are attempting to prevail against it, and as Latter-day Saints we have this precious knowledge, and we have this high resolve that the Spirit of the Christ shall yet, in the years to come, permeate this old world, and rejuvenate it and make it beautiful that there may be happiness and peace and contentment! LITERARY DEPARTMENT Emeline Y. Nebeker, Chairman LESSON ENRICHMENT Professor Harrison R. Merrill Emily Dickinson says: "There is no frigate like a book To take us lands away, Nor any coursers like a page Of prancing poetry This traverse may the poorest take Without oppress of toll, How frugal is the chariot That bears a human soul." N our literary lessons this winter | we are to use "Star of the West," by Ethel Hueston; "Log Cabin Lady," Anonymous; "The Romance of an Old Playhouse," by George D. Pyper. Someone has said that literature is the adequate expression in words of the meaning of life. Others have said that literature is the soul history of a race, that is, we have secular history which tells of the actions of men, but literature tells of their thoughts, their philosophies, their soul aspirations, Biography is a phase of literature. In it we are supposed to get a picture of the person under discussion, and presumably the person is very much worth knowing. Perhaps I should say not only the person but the personality this time, since we are using as one of the biographies "The Romance of an Old Playhouse." If you should like to read something about the new biography, read an article by that name "A New Biography," by George Alexander Johnston, which will be found in the "Atlantic Monthly" for March, 1929. HE Star of the West is a grand romance, authentic in the main, however, do not lose sight of the fact that Mrs. Hueston frankly states that she has romanticized and dramatized the story a little in order to add to its interest. She had in her possession two or three of the journals which were kept by members of the Lewis and Clark Expedition, and she went over the entire trail taken by that historic band more than one hundred years ago. While on the ground, she tells us, where some of these things were jotted down in the journals, she attempted to picture in her mind exactly what occurred, and from what these men wrote she also attempted to make up conversation which would carry on the ideas. I think if you read the book carefully you will be able to detect these places where Mrs. Hueston has taken these liberties. 722
Regarding lesson enrichment for this book: First, I would favor using a map. In order to try this out myself, I drew a map copied from the fly leaf of the book. I drew it in large scale, so large that a group of sisters in a meeting could easily see the trail of the Lewis and Clark Expedition. On the map I suggested the Louisiana Purchase, because that was the reason for the Expedition. It might be well to have somebody in the class, discuss the Louisiana Purchase. It was a tremendous undertaking at that time to go from St. Louis on the Missouri River over to the Pacific Ocean. When our attention is called to the fact that no white man had ever been over that territory, it begins to assume historic proportions. Some material things representing Indian life could be brought to the class, a costume such as Sacagawea might have used, a baby board like one in which her little Pomp might have been carried, a pair of moccasins, a bowl or basket?all of these things add to the interest. In every Ward there are women who have been personally acquainted with Indians. It might be a good idea to bring in some of these people and from them get a personal knowledge of the Indian characters. Mrs. Hueston has made much of the relationship of Sacagawea to Captain Clark. She worshiped him and he recognized her nobility of soul. In closing the discussion on the book, I would like to mention the controversy which has arisen over her death. Grace Hebard, who is a very good historian at the University of Wyoming, has done a great deal of work on Sacagawea. She came to the conclusion a few years ago that Sacagawea grew to be an old woman, and went to the Wind River Reservation in Wyoming, and there died after she was eighty years old.
When Mrs.
Hebard published that account it was pretty well accepted, but since that day other journals and accounts have been found, and Mrs.
Hueston seems to be more nearly correct.
According to her book Sacagawea died at the age of about twenty-five, soon after the close of the expedition. It is known that Sacagawea was born on the Salmon River. A monument is erected to her memory at her birthplace. The Lewis and Clark Expedition came over into Idaho from Montana, down Agency Creek near the spot where Fort Limhi now stands. THE "Log Cabin Lady," is a very small book written anonymously. If you take two lessons on the book you could read the very choicest pages from "Log Cabin Lady." Any Pioneer mother could have been the subject of this book. It offers a grand opportunity for all to become acquainted with our own Log Cabin Ladies. The message of the book is that no matter where we turn, if we are to live well in this world, we need to know some things. It is easier to understand races if one understands the psychology of their customs.
Social amenities are too often neglected in America, our manners are sometimes truthfully called crude, and one of the things that we hope will come from the study of this book is a little more attention to the customs which are called correct. For lesson enrichment of this book I had in mind spending a little time considering social forces. A panel discussion might be arranged with the book as the basis. One thing is noticeable, a very cultured person like Queen Victoria or Gladstone really does know how to meet people. One of the finest marks of culture is RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE manifest when a very cultured person meets an uncultured one, and despite the shortcomings, treats that perscn as an equal. I think that thought is beautifully brought out, and the sisters can well make use of it. I was much impressed with the latter part of the book because the author thinks that the West must be called upon to save America. OME might wonder why we should select the biography of an. Old Playhouse instead of a person. It is because we looked upon the Old Playhouse as being, if not a person, at least a glorious personality, and one most important in the training of the men and women of Zion. We have Brother George D. Pyper, General Superintendent of the Sunday School, once manager of the Old Playhouse and author of the book, with us today. He is one of those souls with whom the Lord was very liberal. The Lord, first of all, made him a wonderful man, with a tender heart. He made him artistic of soul; He presented him with an exquisite tenor voice; He gave him good judgment. He was an ideal manager of the Old Playhouse. GeorcE D. Pyper T have a heart full of gratitude to President Heber J.
Grant for appointing me nearly forty years ago to manage the Old Playhouse, and for the thirty years I was manager President Grant stood by me in the direction of that theatre. I felt an obligation to the community to tell the story. The manuscript of the book was written between the hours of 12 o'clock midnight and two o'clock in the morning.
After the turmoil and excitement of managing, it came as arest tome. I wrote the book, as it were, on the spot, and from memoranda collected over a period of twenty years. 723 I have in my home the beautiful oil painting given to me by Lee Greene Richards, the artist.
This forms the frontispiece of the book. I have often sat in front of it looking up at the old picture, memories flooding through my mind, for "There are moments of life that we never orget Which brighten and brighten as time steals away, ney give a new charm to the happiest ot, And they shine on the gloom of the rainiest day." In reading the story of the Old Playhouse, I hope you will call to mind, and have in reverent thought, the players, how they made our people happy, through their fine contribution to cultural development.
This will bring from the lines of that old book something that will' stay with you.
Most of the people who took part in those early days have passed away, and "When I remember all my friends so linked together Who passed away in good or stormy weather, I feel like one who treads alone a banquet hall deserted, Whose lights are fled, and garlands shed And all but him departed." Proressor Harrison R. MERRILL Brother Pyper has been very helpful in including in the book the photographs of many of the important actors who performed in the Old Playhouse, among them President Brigham Young when he was an actor.
When you read the book you not only get the picture of a playhouse but of people, who regarded the Playhouse as Henry Miller did, "A Cathedral in the Desert."
Imagine the long stretch of desert between the Mississippi River and the Pacific Ocean?the land of the coyote, sage brush, lizard, Indians, trappers, with just a few people with a love 724 in their hearts for the finer things of life, and then springing up as if it were planted by God Himself, this old temple, erected to art. You get some idea of what the old Salt Lake Theatre meant in those days. In every Ward there will be sisters who have known the Old Playhouse through personal attendance there, and it would enrich the lesson to have some of these sisters tell about the Playhouse and their experiences with it.
Even though the Old Playhouse was erected in Pioneer days the foresight was so excellent that few companies found difficulty in presenting their offerings on its stage, which was adequate for even modern performances of the most stupendous kind. "The Lady of Lyons" was one of the first plays presented on the old Salt Lake Theatre stage. It will be presented this coming year at the B. Y. U. Leadership Week, and I suggest it as a means of enrichment in your communities.
Nearly every community has its own dramatic club. Why not turn back the pages of history and present "The Lady of Lyons," or some of the other plays which are available.
Some good dramatic leader could read extracts from plays. On the opening night, President Young's favorite song, "Hard Times Come Again No More," was sung. The revival of that old song during this year might be interesting.
Nearly always in those days, in addition to the regular plays, a farce or comedy was presented at the close. It would be very easy to resurrect some of these farces and present them in your own Wards. I would like to see this a sort of Jubilee year for the Old Playhouse.
There is also an opportunity for instrumental music. Brother Pyper has named many of the selections RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE played by the orchestra. It would be very helpful to have some of these early-day pieces played.
Shakespeare was always one of the most popular dramatists presented in the old Salt Lake Theatre, because it was a high-class playhouse, and the management catered to unusually fine things. In some of the light operas Brother Pyper himself appeared in the leading role.
Many of the light operas and a few of the grand operas have been sung in the Old Playhouse.
This fact gives you a magnificent range of material from which to choose for the enrichment of your lessons.
When you finish the book, I believe that you will like Joseph Smith a little better than you ever did before, for behind the Old Playhouse, as behind all things in the Church, stands Joseph Smith. You will like Brigham Young a little better, because you will be able to see the artistic side of his nature.
Besides being a great builder of buildings, and of cities, he was also a great builder of souls, and always encouraged drama, opera, and the finer things of life. You will know and love a little better all the leaders of the Church, including President Grant, who was always a supporter of the old Salt Lake Theatre. You will learn to know and love a great many other men and women who stood for culture among the Latter-day Saints, and out of it all, I am sure, will come a spiritual uplift as you become acquainted with these fine things. If you have as much fun studying this course, as I had in writing it, it indeed will be a glorious year. SOCIAL SERVICE DEPT. Jennie B. Knight, Chairman The address of Harold T.
Christensen on "Why Study Sociology" will be printed in the December lssue of the Relief Society Magazine.
  OFFICERS' MEETING THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1937 OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Louise Y. Robison WE welcome you here this morning, and hope you are enjoying the Conference. The Membership Cards for 1938 are ready for distribution. If you will call at the office for the number you will require, we shall be happy to supply them without cost to you. The new four-year Record Books will soon be ready for you. An order blank will be sent to each Stake for you to indicate the number of Ward Record books you will require. We earnestly desire all Stakes and Wards, as well as the larger Branches, to begin the 1938 records in the new books. May we impress upon the Stake, Ward and Branch Presidents, the grave responsibility of caring for the Record Books when closed on December 31, 1937. The Secretaries have given long hours of service keeping these valuable records. If there is a vault in the Ward Chapel, see that the book is placed in it. If there is no place in the Ward, the Stake House vault may be used. As there are some Stakes where no provision is made for keeping safe these precious records, we have permission to store them in the vaults of the Presiding Bishop's office. We think you had better keep them for a year after they are completed, then, if you have no place in which to safely store them, please send them to the Presiding Bishop's Office. It is, however, not as convenient for you if you want to look over any of the back records, but do take care of them, because they are most valuable.
When a new chapel is to be built, use your influence to have ample vault space for storing records. We have the books bound for four years' record, but later, if there is a new organization in your Stake, we can have them bound for three years, or two years, or one year, so that the whole Church can begin at the same time with a new four-year record. We have had, during the last year, some very unfortunate experiences because there has been no audit made. We have spoken of this before, but please every one of you pay attention to the audit. It would require very little time for the Ward or Stake Clerks to go over your accounts when you make your annual reports. If they would audit them, find how much money there is in the bank, and put their O. K. On them, a great deal of sorrow would be averted.
Please be careful about it, and if necessary, pay for an auditor to go over the books, especially before they are turned over to a new officer, We hope you are keeping an account of the number of inactive members who have become active. We feel that one inactive member becoming active is as valuable as two new members. I hope you are working on your inactive rolls. A year ago we permitted you to pay Annual Dues for your active and honorary members, and credit you 100%, but this does not relieve you from the responsibility of trying to get the inactive members on your active roll. PEAKING of Annual Dues, we appreciate greatly the efforts made by our Stake Officers in sending in their dues last year.
There was a small decrease, but we think 726 it was wonderful of you sisters when you were relieved of this greater responsibility, to pay the Annual Dues as fully as you did. A number of our Presidents have asked if they could have their magazine Drive at another period rather than from September 15 to October 15, and permission has been given them to do so. We do urge that you will keep one period, and make that an intensive Magazine Drive, whether July or June. Now that our lessons are beginning to be printed earlier in the year, if an earlier date would be better for your Stakes, we are perfectly willing for you to have this, but please let us know what time you prefer, and do not give up an intensive month's work for your Magazine. Sister Hermana F. Lyon, who has presided over the Netherlands Mission Relief Society, made a wonderful report of the activities of our Dutch sisters regarding Annual Dues. In one branch only two men out of two hundred, were employed, but there was 100% membership dues paid in that branch. The women did handwork, or extra work, but they paid their Annual Dues. Can Relief Society women in our Wards at home fail to make their 100% when the Netherlands' sisters set such an excellent example? WE are a bit disturbed over the report that some of the wards are using Work and Business Day for book reviews. We are not opposed to boek reviews at all, but we are eager to have you keep Work and Business Day in the spirit for which it was instituted, and that is in helping our women become better mothers, and in taking care of the dependent children who need help.
There are many Wards in our Church where children could be made more comfortable if we could get the vision of