SYNOPSIS OF MINUTES.

	The regular Semi-monthly Meeting held in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, July
10th, was one of unusual interest, Sister
Eliza R. Snow Smith being present, after a
very long absence from these gatherings. There
was another special feature of this meeting;
also that the place of Coun. Phebe Woodruff,
recently deceased, was to be filled. Prest. M. I.
Horne presided. There was a full meeting,
and a good spirit pervaded the assembly. After
singing, prayer was offered by Sister Minerva
W. Snow. Continued by singing. Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved.
Minutes of Y. L. M. I. A. of the 20th Ward
were read, and P. A. of the 5th, 21st and 4th
wards.
	Prest. M. I. Horne made a few remarks,
and referred to the business which was to be
transacted, viz., to nominate some one to fill
the vacancy caused by the death of Sister
Woodruff.
	Sister E. R. S. Smith expressed her pleasure
in meeting with the sisters after so long a time,
and added that the sisters who had come out
on so sultry a day loved the Lord and their re-
ligion. She then nominated Sister Minerva
W. Snow as Counselor to President M. I.
Horne, in place of Coun. Phebe W. Woodruff,
deceased. The nomination was unanimously
approved.
	Coun. M. W. Snow made a few remarks, ex-
pressing the hope that she might be granted
health and strength to perform any duty she
might be called upon to do, and prayed she
might prove faithful, and fill the position with
honor.
	Coun. Zina D. H. Young, after preliminary
remarks in reference to her recent illness, and
her gratitude for the preservation of her life,
said she had, for some time past, been laboring
in the Temple at Logan, and urged the sisters

[Column 2]

to greater faith and earnestness in the Gospel;
warned them of evil spirits that are hovering
around trying to destroy and draw our little
ones away; prayed we might have grace and
faith to accomplish all we desired to do, etc.
	Prest. E. R. S: Smith said, "We are living
in a very important time, since God has
brought to light the Everlasting Gospel, and
since we have had to leave our homes and our
country for the pearl of great price, let us
cling to it, come life or come death; do not
waver." Was thankful she had lived to see
this day. "In this persecution that is going
on, is God's hand in it? I think it is." Spoke
quite eloquently of the Savior, and His death
for us; said we should try and stand firm, re-
membering what He passed through for us.
"O my sisters, what glorious propsects are be-
fore us, but we will need the Holy Ghost, and
to draw nearer unto God, if we desire to ob-
tain them. These enemies who are working
against us have taken their parts in the pro-
gramme, and we have taken ours, and let us
abide firm and true in the path we have
chosen." Spoke of a division that would take
place, when hypocrites would be taken from
our midst, and our Temples would not be pol-
luted.	*	*	"If we do right we have
nothing to fear." Felt to bless all, and ask
God to preserve this people from all the evil
machinations of those who are combined
against them. "They are Satan's emissaries.
It has been said that if we are not pure enough
the Melchisedec Priesthood will be taken away,
and we will only have the Aaronic." Made
other interesting remarks.
	Sister Sinah Bishop bore testimony to the
truth of the principle of plural marriage. Dr.
E.S. Barney gave a few words of good coun-
sel. Sister Dyer bore her testimony, and spoke
in the gift of tongues. Interpretation given
by Sister Zina D. H. Young. A sister in the
congregation bore testimony to the words of
Sister Zina. Sister Elizabeth Paul, Sister
Mortensen, Sister Kimball, Sister McLean and
another sister in the audience bore faithful
testimonies, and expressed their gratitude for
the feast of good things enjoyed at this meet-
ing.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Singing,
"Weep, weep not for me Zion." Benediction
by Sister E. S. Taylor.

	Semi-monthly Meeting, August 7th, Prest,
M. I. Horne presiding. After singing, prayer
was offered by Coun. B. W. Smith. After
singing again, and the reading of minutes of
previous meeting, minutes were read from the
Y. L. M. I. A. of the 8th Ward, and from the
P. A. of the 5th and 6th Wards.
	Prest. Horne made a few remarks, and ex-
pressed a desire to hear from the sisters in the
congregation.
	Sisters M. Brown, Sinah Bishop, S. Bird, M.
E. A. Watmough, Sister Dyer, Dr. E. S.
Barney and other sisters in the congregation
bore faithful testimonies and made interesting
remarks; also Sisters Mortenson, Tentier and
Mary Davis gave a few words of good counsel.
	Sister Roundy said if we lived nearer to
God we would not feel to shrink from the
trials that are upon us. "We are to be tried
as gold seven times, and we may expect some
very bitter experiences."
	Two sisters in the congregation then bore
testimony. Sister Brown quoted from a recent
discourse of Elder Moses Thatcher's. Sister
H. C. Young desired the meeting to unite with
her in prayer, which was responded to by all
present.
	Sister B. W. Smith then addressed the meet-
ing; counseled the sisters to be true and firm,
and not to fear, "for we will yet overcome our
enemies, and triumph in the end." Was thank-
ful that Congress had adjourned without pass-
ing the new Edmunds bill.

[Column 3]

	Prest. Horne made some very stirring re-
marks; believed, in regard to the sermon by
Bro. Thatcher, that it would be fulfilled, unless
the people turned round very quickly and re-
formed. Said, "Has this raid humbled the
people? No; I do not think so. We have got
to forsake our sins and repent before our
Father and God." Made mention of election
day, and many other items of the greatest im-
portance, earnestly exhorting the sisters to
heed the many warnings given to us, or if not,
we must abide the consequences, which she de-
scribed as very dreadful.
	Adjourned for two weeks. Singing. Dis-
missed with prayer by Dr. E. S. Barney.


