NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.

	Mrs. Edith Longfellow Dana and Mrs. Annie
Longfellow Thorpe are to build a double house
near the old Craigie mansion for their resi-
dences.
	Mary Anderson has been spending the
autumn with Mr. and Mrs. William Black,
amid the picturesque scenery of Oban, which
her host has so graphically and charmingly
described.
	A university for women, founded on private


capital, is contemplated in Moscow, if th
government will sanction the scheme, whic
proposes to have three faculties—mathematics
natural history (with medical studies), and
philosophy.
	Miss Calhoun, granddaughter of John C.
Calhoun, went to London two or three years
ago, and appeared on the stage, where she
achieved some success. A play has been writ
ten for her which is founded upon the life of
Charlotte Corday. She proposes to bring it
out in America this winter.
	Mme. Janauschek says she invariably dis-
courages girls who ask her advice about going
on the stage. 'They know nothing of the life
of the stage, its temptations and its hard work.
They see us only at night, nicely dressed, and
with everything perfect. They know no more.
I have been thirty-three years on the stage,
and I say there is no life like it. It has no
happiness, it leaves you no time for domestic
or social pleasures, no time for anything but
work, work, work.  I was once a good pianist,
but for years I have hardly touched a piano.
I love to draw, but there is no time, ever. All
is work and travel, travel and work. To girls
who think of going on the stage, again I say,
no, no."
	Miss Constance Fenimore Woolson has
rented for the autumn and early winter a part
of an old stone villa on the hill called Bellos-
guardo, outside the Roman gate of Florence,
Italy. In the same villa resides Miss Green-
ough, sister of the sculptor. Miss Woolson's
quarters have a garden in front of them, and
are very romantically situated. Next door is
Villa Montanto where Hawthorne wrote the
"Marble Faun," and which he describes as the
home of Donatello. The shadow of its old
stone tower moves across Miss Woolson's
garden every day like that of a sun-dial.  Not
far distant is the small villa where her great-
uncle, James Fenimore Cooper, spent two sum-
mers with his family sixty years ago.  He 
was very fond of Italy.


