THE UNJUST JUDGE.

	In the City of Prescott, Arizona, there dwelt an
unjust judge, that feared not God, nor regarded
man, for he sentenced three innocent men to the
Detroit Prison, to labor in the house of correction
for three years. After serving two years and six 
months, the chief executive of the nation, Presi-
dent Grover Cleveland, having a heart that God
could touch, in answer to the pleading prayers
of His faithful Saints, exercised the pardoning
power vested in him. The prison doors were
opened and the captives are free! There is great
rejoicing and thanksgiving over their uncondition-
al pardon, for which we render thanks to God and
the President. I should think they could recover
damages if our laws were constitutional; but, alas!
when a government so enlightened and far ad-
vanced as the United States suffer such uncon-
stitutional bills as the Edmunds to become a law,
what can we expect! Mercy? No! Justice? Nay!
far from it; those two attributes are bowed in shame
and bathed in tears, when angels bear record of the
pleading prayers and weeping wives of such men
as these, sentenced by an unjust judge.
	We find, in a letter from Bro. Tenny, published
in the Deseret News, October 15th, the most ex-
alting and inspirational sentiments couched in his
own words: "I stand by my convictions; and
while liberty is sweeter than life, my hope is
sweeter than liberty, and up to date, prison walls
and cells have only tended to intensify the testi-
mony that mingles with my life's blood."
	Do such sentiments as these emanate from a 
priest ridden people? Nay, verily not! they were
not surpassed by the great patriot, Patrick Henry,
on signing the Declaration of Independence. He
closed his memorable speech by exclaiming:
"Give me liberty, or give me death!" Mark the
expression of Bro. Tenny: "The testimony that
mingles with my life's blood." What testimony
does he have reference to?  John the Revelator
will inform us.  He saw in vision an innumerable
company of Elders clothed in white robes, with
palms of victory in their hands, near the throne
of God, and he asked, "Who are these arrayed in
white?" the angel answered, "These are they that
were valiant for the testimony of Jesus, and they
loved not their lives unto death." The Revelator
also saw the souls of them that were slain for the
testimony of Jesus under the altar of God, and
they cried with a loud voice, "How long, O Lord!
holy and true and righteous, dost thou not judge 
and avenge our blood upon them that dwell on 
the earth?" and the voice of God was heard say-
ing, "Wait a little longer, until some more of thy
fellow servants, the prophets, are slain as thou
hast been, and I will avenge thee."
	The unjust imprisonment of such men as Apos-
tle Snow and others, will shake the nation and
speak louder than a thousand thunders, until the
inhabitants thereof will cry aloud, "Oh, that we
had not slain the prophets and stoned them that
were sent unto us."

