HANNAH T. KING.

	It is early morning, in October, the moun-
tains are capped with the first snow, while
their base and sides are gorgeous with autumn
coloring on the lingering green. The sky is
beautiful and serene, the air delightful, tempt-
ing one to a ramble. Year after year, this
season, in particular, more than spring or sum-
mer's beauty, ever reminds me of one herself,
in the ripe and glorious autumn of life. From
an ivory painting of herself, that she had
shown me I know that the springtime of her

[Column 2]

﻿years were full of beauty, delicacy, health and
enjoyment.
	It was soon after the famous "Indignation
Meeting," held by the Latter-day Saint women
in the Old Tabernable against the infamous
"Cullom Bill," that I made the personal ac-
quaintance of Hannah T. King. Often her
fine person and eloquent eyes had drawn
my admiring gaze, and one Sunday she came
aud sat beside me, and, during the service,
asked me some question, which led to others,
as we both happened to spend our noon in the
Tabernacle, instead of going home to dinner,
thereby retaining comfortable seats for the
afternoon meeting. I don’t think that either
of us stayed so much for this convenience, as
from a sense of spiritual enjoyment in spend-
ing a quiet hour in the place, permeated as it
was with an almost mystical atmosphere of
reverie, worship and intuition of diviner reali-
ties. When we parted that afternoon it was
with the understanding that we should each
bring something in our pockets for a taste, and
sit together, and become further acquainted,
next Sunday. Almost without interruption
we thus spent our Sundays for several months.
	I was alone, as it were, away from my own
family, visiting for an indefinite period in the
citv, boarding in somewhat uncongenial quar-
ters, and the kind attention of this lady was
very lovingly appreciated by me. Not that I
had no other friends; I had many, and they
were kind, but there was something peculiarly
satisfying and fascinating to me in her literary
conversation, and in drawing me to her and by
her confiding manner, finding out my own
tastes aud inclinations, combining in one per-
son guide and friend. I looked with longing
heart toward others whose talents and natures
I adored, yet shrank from approaching nearer
than they invited; but she discerned and en-
couraged me. Sometimes, by her invitation, I
walked home with her, and every room I en-
tered in her home became an indelible picture
in my memory, in their literalness, their spirit,
and all those beautiful phantoms that rise and
cluster around the individuality that invokes
them, making the hours beautiful.
	Often we took long walks together, and I
used to smile to myself when she seemed so
to love to tread upon the carpet of autumn
leaves, just as a child might have smiled to
walk adown some dimpled slope thick with
flowers. Then, how she gave loose rein to
fancy and happiness, and how we enjoyed the
time, lingering once so long that we walked
home by the full moon.
	After my marriage I saw less of my friend,
and once, when I spoke of it regretfully, she
answered: "Never mind, we understand each
other too well for time or absence to make any
difference in our feelings."
	Hannah T. King was known to thousands,
who never had the pleasure of meeting, her, by
her pen. They knew her ability, integrity and
powers; but only the near friends could know
the greatness and the gentleness, the dignity
and the sweetness, yea, and the almost girlish
happiness of her spirit. Upon the street, one
meeting her would never have dreamed, that
the fresh, beautiful complexion, the undimmed
eye and the elegant figure, had known so
many years of earthly life. Still young and
beautiful in spirit, she has departed from us
before we were prepared to meet the thought
of her loss. How happy must have been the
meeting with those dear friends so lately gone
before her, and the reward—for which she left
country, home and friends. As though we
stood again Sunday afternoon in the outgoing
throng at the "gate of the Temple Blook," let
me repeat, as she used to with a smile, "We
meet again."
		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	South Bountiful, Oct. 26, 1886.


