AUTUMNAL TINTS.
	There is no season of the year when the
earth is more magnificent in its glory and
beauty than the Autumn and especially Octo-
ber. In September the leaves begin to fade
and turn yellow, and sometimes the pale blue
sky is dim or leaden, but the mellow October
days are rife with beauty. 
	One could easily imagine “the fairy folk"
dancing over the hills and touching with magic
wand the beautiful leaves until they dazzle
and shine like burnished gold or flame up
like a blaze of glowing fire in the distance.
The trailing vines and briers variegated
in color form such festoons of artistic loveli-
ness that one feels like gazing with wonder on
the scene, as though nature had outdone her-
self in the transformation. The fallen leaves—
what sentiment they call up in the human
heart, and how one loves to tread upon them,
what, poetical thoughts they inspire. The
thistledown floats in the air, and the
crickets pipe their shrillest notes in the flags
and stubble. Immense flocks of blackbirds sail

[column 2]
across the pathway and over the brown fields
lighting among the soft willows that fringe the
water’s edge. A few plain brown birds sing 
sweetly in the shrubbery, but the medlarks are
quiet now, or have gone away. The red-headed
woodpecker with gaudy wing is busy at his
boring, making for himself and mate a shelter
ere the winter storms come on.
	In this country the woods are not so gor-
geously attired as where the trees are old and 
heavy with moss and lichen, but the mountain
oak and sumach are splendid, almost regal in
grandeur off coloring, and in the canons and
upon the mountain side, make a display of
their vivid beauty, especially when the sun
is on them, that could scarce be equaled
in any land, and that no artist could ever
successfully imitate with paint and brush.
	The murmuring music of the leaves when
the autumn breeze begins to sway the trees,
and they bend and sigh and moan, has some-
thing so pensive in it,that it thrills the human
heart and softens it like the music of the harp
with a thousand chords gently played by a
skillful hand.
	I doubt if the murmur of the sobbing sea
surpasses in its soothing effect the music of the
trees in Autumn when “the melancholy days
have come.”
	October generally brings the soft radiant
Indian Summer with its delightful weather-
when one can be out of doors all day long,
aud just comfortably warm, gazing upon the
beauties of nature which are invigorating both
to the body and mind. There is nothing more
charming to me in the way of varying tints and
shades of color than the beautiful vail or haze
like the finest transparent gauze that lies like
a graceful mantle upon the eastern mountains
that half encircle this wonderful valley to-
wards evening of these autumnal days. I
have heard hundreds remark it, who have
traveled in foreign lands and have gazed with
admiration upon the Italian hills and skies and
watched the sunsets of the land so famed in
poetry and song. I firmly believe the sunsets
in Utah are quite equal, if they do not surpass
those of sunny Italia, but I regret to say the
name Utah is not euphonious or musical in
the least, there is no beauty in the name
itself. Deseret is much more to my taste and
suited to the country and its people. I would
much rather admire the glorious lights that
come and go upon the Eastern mountains veil-
ing them in silent beauty, and watch the glow-
ing sunsets with their effects upon the lake and
clouds in the distant horrizon and with a pas-
sive silence drink in the beauty of the scene
leaving all names and disputed questions for
the time being; until the pale evening is
ushered in and the stars one by one peep out
and the harvest moon, yellow and mellow,
sheds a silvery lustre over hill and vale; while
reviewing all these wonders of the creation, and 
rejoicing in their harmony and completeness,
one cannot but feel a nearness to divine power,
and a reverence for that hand that has fash-
ioned all things in heaven and on earth, and
holds the keys of destiny in His holy keeping.
How can we be grateful enough for the beauti-
ful creations we enjoy, and appreciate all the
good Father has given us. It is only through
His Spirit we can be truly appreciative and
grateful. The great lessons of life content-
ment, gratitude, earnestness of purpose, purity
and obedience to divine laws and precepts—
all these impress us more strongly when we


sit, as it were at the feet of nature, and con-
template the wonderful works of God our
Father. He has made all these beautiful
varieties of things for man's comfort, joy and
happiness, and the rich and poor alike are en-
dowed with them.
	There is a subdued quiet, too, about the
Autumn—dreamy, languid, lingering days,
that some call monotonous and wearisome; but
to one who lives much in his own thoughts and
fancies, such seasons are a positive luxury.
They may be monotonous to some, but to me
they are placid and restful. In New England
this is the season for nutting, and merry crowds
of young people and children enjoy this recrea-
tion day after day in the woods, not only in
gathering the nuts for winter use and amuse-
ment, but the exhilarating frosty air has a stimu-
lating effect upon the health and spirits of
those who engage in the sport, for sport it is.
I verily believe the people in rural New Fng-
land as thoroughly enjoy this yearly pastime as
the gentle folk in old England do the hunting
season, when they ride after the hounds. When
visiting in the old Bay State, last winter, these
gala days were often referred to by my former
school mates and friends, and even Mr. Whit-
tier, the venerable poet, questioned me on the
subject, and expressed in eloquent terms his
taste for nutting in the woods, and regretted
that we who live here had not that
pleasure, which had always given him
such real enjoyment; and although nearly
eighty years old he still goes nutting,
evidently with the same zest of the sport, as
was his wont in former times, though, perhaps,
the sentiment that characterized his youthful
rambles may have worn off. He is, however,
young in spirit as all true poets are. Out
door exercise, such as rambling over the hills
and listening to the voices of nature, at all sea-
sons of the year is as necessary for the poet as
his daily food. And at this time the hills, the
view from adjacent heights, the crimson pur-
ple and yellow foliage, the ever-changing skies
the murmuring, sighing, sobbing trees are all
that the fondest fancies could wish to inspire
the muse.
							AUNT EM.
	Oct. 13th, 1885.


