EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MANUSCRIPT received, that will be published in
our next number: An excellent article on plural
marriage, by M. A. M. Pratt; also one upon
marriage, by M. J. Morrison; poems by Hannah
Conraby and May J. Marler, M. J. Tanner and
other suitable matter.
	THE Editor and Proprietor of the "Graphic
News Illustrated," two gentlemen seeking infor-
mation on Mormon subjects, paid quite a visit to
our  sanctum  to-day. They  have  been  in
town a week, looking up material for their columns,
and expect to visit, Logan, Ogden and Provo, re-
turning here again and spending a a few days
more in visiting places of interest, etc.
	THE EXPONENT offers hearty congratulations to
Hon. John T. Caine, Delegate from Utah to the
Fiftieth Congress, on his recent election.  Hav-
ing so ably represented this Territory in the past,
the People's Party, who elected him by an over-
whelming majority, have the utmost confidence in
his future success, feeling assured of his doing all
that is possible to promote the best interests and
prosperity of the Territory, and make a fair repre-
sentation for all its inhabitants.
	WE have had some very interesting conversa-
tions of late with strangers visiting the city,
among whom mention may be made of Mrs.
Threlkeld of Los Angelos, a women of very

[Column 2]

bright mind, and a wide-awake newspaper corres-
pondent. Mrs. Threlkeld, in company with Dr.
R. B. Pratt, visited the Utah Penitentiary and
had an exceedingly pleasant interview with Apos-
tle Lorenzo Snow, with whom, as well as his Sis-
ter, E. R. S. Smith, she appeared to have been
greatly impressed. Mrs. T. also met and con-
versed upon Mormonism with Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, Bishop O. F. Whitney and others.
	MONDAY morning, Nov. 15th, the Salt Lake
Academy opened in the basement rooms of the
Social Hall in this city. The school is under the
supervision of Elder Karl G. Maeser, who has,
from its first inauguration, had charge of the Brig-
ham Young Academy at Provo, and has succeeded
admirably in keeping up the original intention of
its founder, that it should be a Latter-day Saint
school. The Salt Lake Stake Academy is estab-
lished with the same purpose, that the children in-
structed there shall be taught the principles of the
Gospel in connection with other studies, and that
the spirit of the institution shall be in accordance
therewith. There is no doubt but the school will
receive a large patronage, and that very soon there
will be a much larger hall needed than the one at
present occupied. The Gentile world have had
much to say about the Latter-day Saint children
being taught nothing but their peculiar religion,
when the facts are they have had much too little
of this sort of instruction. Greater diligence on
the part of parents and teachers in this respect
will no doubt have a very salutary effect upon the
rising generation. At any rate let us not only
hope, but strive earnestly to awaken a wide-spread
interest in this better and higher system of educa-
tion
	THE organization of Zion's Choral Society will
be highly appreciated by every lover of the fine
arts among the Latter-day Saints. The human
voice is capable of a great degree of cultivation in
speaking, and still more in singing. In both these
departments of study and culture, the youth of
Zion should seek to excel. Vocal music has
something delightful in it, even in its simplest
form of expression. Knowing the power of music
over the human soul, and its influence in refining
and elevating, it is certainly desirable that the
children of the Saints should receive all the ad-
vantages of musical training possible, and that
the development and cultivation should be here at
home, under the supervision of parents and teach-
ers, that the influence may be in harmony with the
spirit of their religion. To accomplish this,
nothing could afford better facilities than the forma-
tion of just such an association as Zion's Choral
Society. The large Tabernacles and Temples of
the Saints, which have been and will be built, will
require a great number of singers, the most per-
fect harmony of many voices, and to fill these
buildings with melody from many thousand voices,
necessarily there, must be preparation beforehand.
Sacred music is the highest order of the divine art
and it is for the cultivation of this specially, as we
understand it, that the organization has been
effected, and with the favorable circumstances at-
tending it at the outset, and the efficient officers
chosen to preside, the people may naturally look
for the best results to follow.
	IN the last issue of the paper, brief mention was
made of a picture of Sister Lucy Smith, the
mother of the Prophet Joseph, which it is the in-
tention to give to each one of the subscribers of
the EXPONENT during the holidays. It is earnest-
ly desired that all those who are behind in pay-
ments will make an effort to pay up back subscrip-
tions to date, and as an inducement to new sub-
scribers, one of the pictures will be given to each
one subscribing for the next half volume, which
begins with the 1st of December, if payment is
made in advance, for the half year, viz., $1. The
likeness of the engraving to the original, is said
by those who knew her intimately, to be excellent


and the picture, when suitably framed, will be an
ornament in any home, of which it may be just-
ly proud.  In the days of Kirtland and Nauvoo
this venerable woman, Lucy Smith, was very
greatly loved and revered by the Saints, not only
because she was the mother of the Prophet, who
opened up this dispensation, but because of her
many estimable qualities of heart and mind, her
unflinching integrity to the Gospel, and her great 
strength of character. The memory of this noble
mother should be cherished by the Saints of to-
day, and the children and children's children
should be reminded of her many virtues, and her
bright example as a mother among mothers in
Israel. Pictures always make an impression, and
especially upon children; they seldom ever forget
those that hung upon the walls in their childhood's 
homes, and having one of these likenesses of
Mother Smith in the home, will help to keep her
in honored remembrance, and the story of the
early life of the Prophet, when a boy at his
mother's knee, and her salutary teachings will
thus be rendered more impressive, when told to
the little people.


