SARAH HOWELL.

	DIED, at her residence in Clifton, Sunday morning, at
twenty minutes to one o'clock, Oct. 10th, 1886, Mrs. Sarah
Howell, wife of S. C. D. Howell.
	Deceased, whose maiden name was Stewart, was born a
Gallantin, Summer Co., Tenn., January 15, 1815, and was
married to S. C. D. Howell on the 5th of July, 1835.
	She passed away peacefully, after much suffering.  She
was lovingly cared for by her children, grandchildren and
friends. She was very patient and sensitive to the last, in-
structing her family concerning her wishes to be carried
out by them, even to the last moments of her life. She
was very thankful she had the privilege of doing a grea
portion of her work in the Temple for the dead, and left
full instructions for her children to finish the work after she
was gone.
	Mrs. Howell was of a kind and cheerful disposition, be-
nevolent to the poor, and faithful in all her duties. She
was President of the Teachers in our Relief Society. She
received the Gospel in December, 1843. She was left with
three small children to provide for herself while her hus-
band went with the Mormon Batalion to Mexico, and
passed through many trials and persecutions with the
Saints in Nauvoo also, as well as the early days of Utah.
Her illness was lingering, still she was resigned to go or
stay as God willed, realizing He knew best.
	Her funeral was held in the ward meeting house on
Monday 11th, and was attended by many relatives and
friends. The very elements seemed to mingle their tears
with the mourners' as the wind throbbed and the rain fell in
showers.
	Life flitted quietly away as the Sabbath morning dawned,
and she lay free from pain on the Sabbath day of rest.
The struggle was over; her busy life was ended, and she
lay sweetly sleeping the last, long, dreamless sleep, from
which there is no awakening until the resurrection morning.
She had five sons, two of whom are living, forty-two grand
children and eight great grand children.

		JANE M. HOWELL, President,
		E. W. HOWELL,
		S. J. MARLER, Counselors.
