ST. JOSEPH STAKE.

	The ladies quarterly conference convened at
Pima, Sept. 17th, 1886. After the usual
opening exercises, minutes of the previous con-
ference were read and accepted. Miss Emma
Allred was unanimously sustained as Assistant
Secretary of the St. Joseph Stake. Reports
were not so favorable as formerly; the cause is
attributable to sickness and the heat of sum-
mer.
	Stake Prest., Willmirth East, said, "My
sisters, I am most thankful for the privileges
wo enjoy to-day. Can we realize that this
work we are engaged in is the great latter day
dispensation spoken of by all the holy proph-
ets since the world began? History fails to
give any account of the organization of women
and children, according to the pattern of the
holy Priesthood until revealed by a prophet of
the latter days. The pre-existence of spirits
has been the joyful theme of my soul; that the
children of the Latter-day Saints were held in
reserve, to come forth when the everlasting
covenant of marriage was restored, to be
schooled in these associations. Are we not ac-
countable? Who has a right to neglect or
or discourage the youth of Israel? Saviors are
to come up on Mount Zion. Do we act the
part of saviors. Jesus said if one sheep went
astray, to bring it back to the fold. Then let
us act upon this principle; teach the youth by
precept; give them a kind and encouraging
word, which will do more to reclaim them
than a kick.

[Column 2]

	S. D. Curtis then made encouraging remarks;
exhorted the sisters to faithfulness.
	In the afternoon the P. A. was presided
over by Coun. Johnson. Reports eucourag
ing.
	Prest Layton gave some good instruction.
Spoke upon the duties of officers; exhorted the
parents to send their children to the Associa-
tion, and go themselves occasionally. Said,
"We have a good country here, and if the
Saints will live their religion they will have
health and peace, and plenty will prevail
throughout the land." Said he knew one man
that raised six hundred dollars worth of pota-
toes off one acre of ground, and another raised
four hundred dollars worth of sweet potatoes
off his city lot.
	Conference adjourned till December 17th.
		WILLMIRTH, Prest.,
		SARAH BURNS, Sec. pro tem.

