TO THE MEMORY OF SARAH HOWELL.

Dear Sister Sarah, we meet here to-day,
Our hearts full of love a small tribute to pay
To your worth and nobility, knowing full well
That the whole of your worth only angels can tell.
You have honored God's laws, 'mid oppression and strife
When harship and famine were threatening your life,
When husband and loved ones were sent from your side,
You bore all in meekness for God was your guide.

And when you were driven from the home you possesed,
You willingly shared with the sorely oppressed,
Rejoicing that you was deemed worthy to go,
You said they're my people and my faith I will show.
You followed them even 'mid deserts to roam
Wher'er their abiding place, there was your home,
And bravely you traveled o'er mountain and plain, 
Determined through all things the right to maintain.

There you struggled and toiled to create a new home,
Where the wild beast and savage in freedom did roam;
Rejoicing the while that the Saints were made free,
And would worship the Lord in sweet liberty;
A blessing you've been to the daughters of light,
For your influence ever has been for the right;
With words of encouragement cheered many hearts,
The remembrance of which will never depart.
Your children you trained in the ways of the Lord,
By example and precept you taught them His word,
Now they're workers in Zion, and honored, we see,
Beloved by the good for their integrity;
And multiplied thousands will yet speak your praise,
For your trust and obedience to God and His laws;
Like Jesus, your motto has been, and is still,
"Not my will be done, but O Father! thy will."

And now we all pray that the blessings of heaven
May rest on your aged companion from morning till even;
May his life be prolonged till his work is all through,
Then be crowned with his queen 'mong the righteous and.
	true.

[Column 2]

Like the last floral tint of autumnal leaves,
      After the frost king's blighting breath,
Fresh radiance crowned this aged friend of ours,
	Ere she was folded in the arms of death.

