APPROACHING THE NARROWS.

	There never was a time in the history of the
Church when greater faith and humility were 
needed than at the present. The Saints are
actually coming to what may, with all pro-
priety, be termed "the narrows." It is a time of 
testing and proving, and the Lord is dealing with 
His people through some very powerful agencies,
and the influences brought to bear to purify and
cleanse them, are not and cannot be understood,
except through the Holy Spirit. The burden of
the cry of the prophets of the Lord to this people
has been for years, "Get the Holy Spirit and keep
it." The question arises with some, and it is a 
serious one, too, "How shall we be sure of being 
in possession of that spirit?" By keeping all the 
commandments God has given to His people, and
being obedient in all things to the counsel through
His servants placed to preside over them, and
through humility and meekness. It might, per-
haps, be said that all fall short in some particular, 
either through weakness or a lack of knowledge,
but if the people are striving to obey and to fulfill
the law, the Lord is merciful and full of loving
kindness, and will help the weak, and lift up the
feeble hands of those who supplicate Him for grace
and strength.
	There are many things transpiring now, calcu-
lated to awaken the thoughtless and indifferent,
and it is easy to perceive that "the mills of the
gods" are grinding. The processes may be tedi-
ous and slow, and there are many tests, but all the
smut has to be removed first, and afterwards comes
the bolting, and even when the fine flour has been
made, there is still another test, that of sifting.
How much of the wheat that has been gathered
will be susceptible of the process of making fine
flour, and even that to be sifted, it would be diffi-
cult for any one to determine.
	President Heber C. Kimball was very fond of
illustrating by the process of the potter, and our
Savior makes similar illustrations of the kind in
His divine writings. The potter throws his clay
into the mill and grinds it, and then moulds and
fashions it to his will, if it be pliable and passive
in his hands, but if not sufficiently so, he throws
it back again to be ground over. The Latter-day
Saints, who have embraced the truth for the love
of it, and in all sincerity of soul, desire to be
fashioned into vessels of honor, that they may be
acceptable in the great day of the Lord, and not 
be thrown back into the pit to be ground over
again. But are they passive while complying with 
the necessary preliminary processes? Is it not
often the case that even the first trial seems too
severe a test? And yet they sing, perhaps uncon-
scious of its true significance,

	"I'm willing to be cleansed
	From every kind of dross,
	I see a fiery furnace,
		I feel its piercing flame;
	The fruits of it are holy,
		The gold will still remain."

	The Saints have been warned and forewarned

[Column 2]

that great trials were in store, and that they should
be on their guard, and watch every loophole
through which an advantage might be taken by
the enemy, who is ever on the alert, and as the
scriptures say, "Is more wise in his generation
than the children of light;" and yet, notwithstand-
ing the warnings and exhortations to diligence
and faithfulness, it would seem that the enemy
had come upon the Saints unawares, but even
though many are taken at a disadvantage, there is
still time to reform, and that so effectually as to 
be able to pass through the narrows, by divine
help, in submission and obedience to the law of
God.
	Passing through the narrows reminds the writer 
of a dream she heard a sister relate in Winter
Quarters. She dreamed that she was traveling
along a very difficult road, or pathway, where
every now and then it seemed next to impossible
to proceed any further, yet  this was the direct
way to the place she had set out for. There were
others in company with her, and just ahead of
her was Sister Vilate Kimball: Finally they came
to a passage way or aperture in a solid wall,
through which it would be necessary to make a
very tight squeeze, if even it were possible to get
through at all, and the sister said to Sister Vilate,
"I can't through there, I would rather go round,"
but she stood and saw Sister Vilate go through,
but remarked, "that it made her bones crack." No
doubt it will be a struggle to pass through the
narrows, and there are many prophetic minds who
seem to think this people have not scarcely
reached any part of the narrows, or the severest
trial as yet. If that be so, how humble and meek
and lowly must one be to endure to the end; and
yet they who do are the ones who obtain the re-
ward which is in store for the faithful.
	The spirit of the world has crept in among the
Saints, of that there can be no doubt, and the pos-
session of that spirit and its influence is at variance
with the spirit of the Gospel, and therefore it be-
comes a positive necessity to "get the Spirit of the
Lord and keep it," and to crush out every feeling
which is not in accordance with that spirit, and
cultivate every Christian grace and qualification,
and follow the example of the Savior, and obey
the injunction He laid upon those who would fol-
low Him—"If ye love me, keep my command-
ments."


[Column 1]

