WITNESS."

	By request, I once more seat myself, with
pen and paper, to contribute something to the
EXPONENT. In my present mood there is no
subject bearing with greater weight upon my
mind than that of "scandal," and the uncharit-
able spirit which seems to be as prevalent
among Saints as among sinners; and, judging
from late occurrences, must be running ram-
pant in Zion. Having been personally affected,
it has doubtless impressed me more deeply
than those who have been so fortunate as to
escape its poisonous fangs. As it has lately
fallen to my lot to suffer the keenest anguish I
think that it is possible for a human being to
endure, it has enabled me to feel for others
who have passed through similar scenes.
	The greatest lessons, and the most lasting
ones, are those learned by experience; and
though a hard schoolmaster, there is no teacher
so profitable to mould and fashion and train
the human mind in that channel that will lead
one to think and feel for another's woes.
	It seems that my misery was not quite com-
plete in the visitation of death, without an-
other thrust, which came in the shape of a
vile falsehood, without even the shadow of
truth on which to found it, but was substituted
as a reason for my son's committing the frenzied
act which closed his earth-life so tragically,
casting not only an additional stain upon the
name of the dead, but upon the living. Even
if this story had been true, he would rather

[Column 2]

have faced it than to have committed a crime
which he had always looked upon with the
greatest horror, as a sin for which there was
no forgiveness, as all who knew him can testify,
and that his moral character stood above re-
proach. The last and most earnest wish that
he was heard to express, was his long talked of
desire to go into the world and preach the Gos-
pel, and his highest aspiration was to be among
those who would be counted worthy to stand as
saviors upon Mount Zion.
	Everything has gone to show that he never
premeditated the act of self-destruction, and
that he was bereft of his reason, through the
intense suffering to which he had been sub-
jected, more or less, for several years. He
went to Arizona three years ago, with the
brightest hopes of regaining his health by the
change, and also of growing up with the coun-
try, but met with disappointment and unlooked
for hardships, by the death of his uncle, D. P.
Kimball, on whose influence he was depending
to give him a start. The news of his father's
death, coming to him when camped in the
dreary Huachuca mountains, had such an ef-
fect upon him, as he expressed himself in a let-
ter, that he "was no longer a boy, but a man
of family;" and when we saw him the change
was so visible that it pained us to see him no
longer the gay, fun-loving boy, who had been
the joy and life of the house. He told me that
he never wanted to mix again with the world
and its follies, but desired to go into the vine-
yard and preach the Gospel. The change from
that climate, where his blood had become
thinned, to this region, at the coldest and most
unfavorable time of the year, affected him im-
mediately. But, anxious to obtain work he
took whatever he could get to do, and the hard
work and exposure told on him, as also the in-
tense heat of the summer, more especially this
last, all of which was calculated to help on the
disease (catarrh), which at last turned his brain.
The last day that he was employed at the
Tithing Office, in lifting a weight, that
would require a much stronger man, he hurt his
back, which laid him up a number of days.
Just at this time he was offered a situation in
the Dinwoody establishment, where he worked
till the week previous to his death. He was
confined to his bed three daysby cholera morbus,
but went to work before he was able, a thing
I should not have allowed had I been at home,
for he was never in possession of a strong con-
stitution, and his ambition generally took him
beyond what wisdom would have dictated.
Knowing so well the purity of his thoughts
and desires, and his aims in this life and for
that to come, I felt that I could not allow so
unjust a stigma to rest upon his name without
raising my voice in its condemnation; and I
think it high time that such cruel wrongs should
be righted; or in the name of all that is just and
God like, how long are they to be borne?
Should not the truth triumph, and the virtues
of the innocent plead their cause in Zion,
though they may be judged guilty by men and
looked upon as outcasts from the fold of God?
	The Latter-day Saints have been noted for
their charity toward the outside world, and
would do good even, unto "those that hate
them;" but, when it comes to individual chari-
ty, how many are there who practice this virtue,
and are seeking with one accord to reach that
standard which should govern our daily walk
and conversation? How many are thoughtless-
ly breaking one of the most important com-
mands, and thereby violating, not only a law
laid down by the Savior for our guidance, but
breaking covenants that have been made in
sacredness before Him, and His angels, who
have borne witness to the same. We know
enough of the "injustice of man to man" to
look for nothing better from the world; and
we may more easily tolerate Tribune informers
and anti-"Mormon" missionaries, as they are

[Column 3]

only performing their part in the drama; but
we have been led to expect better things from
those calling themselves Latter-day Saints,
especially those who have age and experience
on their side, and are looked up to as examples
for the rising generation, but some of whom are
placing themselves as stumbling blocks; and not
only this, but giving voice to imaginary evils,
that never existed only in the brain of those
who "love and make a lie." The Psalmist
said: "His mischief shall return upon his own
head, and his violent dealing shall come down
upon his own pate," a truth which has been
verified in our own, and in every age.
	If some of the time spent in idle gossip and
tale-bearing were used in studying the Scrip-
tures, though they may not be so fascinating,they
would certainly bring greater and more lasting
happiness, for the fruits of the Spirit are holy,
and bring us into closer communion with our
Father, and heavenly beings, giving us confi-
dence when we approach the throne of grace,
which we cannot feel when taking the opposite
course. In mingling with the more humble
and obscure, we may find some of the choicest
gems, upon whom the candle of God is shining
brighter and brighter, till their minds are as
wells, from which is springing that inspiration,
wisdom and intelligence which flows down
from the true fountain of life, bringing peace
and solace to the weary heart, encouraging
them to press onward and gain the reward
which is laid up for those who are hungering
and thirsting after the knowledge of God.
	It behooves us all to live our religion, for
the time is near when the wheat is to be gar-
nered up and the chaff swept away by the
Great Reaper, who alone can judge of the in-
most thoughts aud desires of one's heart, or
whose lives have been the most just and pure,
and worthy of His praise.
	Your sister in sorrow,
