THE HAWIIAN AS A WOMAN.

	She stands on about the same plane, so far
as I am able to judge, as her husband or
brother.
	She gets up at the same early hour. and,
shouldering her hoe, with her calabash of poi
and bit of salt fish, she goes singing in the
fresh waking day down to the sugar cane field
to hoe out her row as her husbaud does. She
is not often employed at responsible or very
heavy labor, as she is, if possible, more lazy
and less to be relied on, and is not quite as
stout as her husbaud.
	Her muscles are rounded and firm, her dress
is exceeding simple, consisting of a holoku
(Mother Hubbard) and a chemise. (Gracious!
its a good thing this is a woman's exclusive
paper.) She swims with quite as much ease
and grace as her brother. Flinging her baby
on her back, she swims out to deep holes,
where they are fishing for devil fish, and pad-
dles round for half a day, turning over on her
back to suckle her offspring.
	In the festive hula she is quite as agile and
vulgar as her male companion. She sings with
as much melody, at times possessing an ex-
quisite voice, and reserves to herself the liber-
ty to sing in a deep, double base sephulchral
voice whenever she so chooses.
	He pounds their poi and catches the fish; she
weaves the mats and hats, and has a baby once
in a great while, after which latter event neither
give much further thought as to its future.
	She is inordinately lazy, and the counterpart
of her lord and master in this, as in his easy
morals, or rather, lack of anything like virtue.
	She beats her husband, at times, and he re-
turns the happy compliment. In fact, things
as to sex, are about as evenly divided as I ever
saw them in my life. But she has virtues.
She has, as a rule, in youth, a rounded, beauti-
ful form, with black liquid eyes and lovely
hands. She loves yellow and scarlet, and is
not particular as to how many shades of either
or both appear on her at the same time.
	She is a devoted friend, and, when faithful,
a most fond, affectionate wife.
	She will work very hard to help build the
home, and is often the treasurer of the family
concern.
	She is very capable of taking on the refine-
ments of civilized life, and is full of imitation
and ingenuity.
	She is an excellent ironer and fair seam-
stress.
	She has proven,as have her white sisters, the
most obedient to the Gospel call, and is ever
kind, hospitable and generous.
	There are a very few types here of fine,
stately women. They all, as to dignity, bear
themselves with the air and grace of a wild-
wood queen.
	She is suave and deceptive, kind and polite,
earnest and unstable, quick and unscrupulous,
intensely demonstrative and truckling.
	But with all, she is trying to raise her head
from out of the gross darkness about her, and
she calls upon you to aid and pray for her, for
she is our sister.
Susa Young Gates HOMESPUN.


[Column 1]

