BOX ELDER STAKE.

	The Thirty-ninth Quarterly Conference of
the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake was
held in the Tabernacle at Brigham City on
the 14th of September, 1886, Prest. Harriet A.
Snow presiding. After singing and prayer,
Coun. Olivia Widerberg addressed the sisters.
Said: "I feel thankful to be able to stand here
to day; I cannot express how grateful I feel
that you and I can meet here together in the
same spirit." Reported the Scandinavian So-
ciety in a good condition. Spoke of the signs
of the times.
	Roll called by the Secretary. Minutes read
and approved. Twenty-two reports were read
by the Secretary from the different branches.
	Prest. Harriet Snow spoke to the secretaries,
particularly about understanding how to make
the reports correct, as sometimes they would
not balance at all.
	Sister Dewey reported verbally; Miss Fannie
Graehl read the accounts of the Stake fund.
	Sister Harper, Sister Albertson and Sister
Keller each bore a faithful testimony, and re-
ported verbally the respective society over
which each presides.
	Sister Perry spoke eloquently on many sub-
jects. Said, "What are we without the Spirit
of Lord? We are nothing. This persecution,
has come upon us to purge us." Spoke of the
necessity of partaking of the sacrament.
	Singing. Benediction by Sister Anderson.
Adjourned till 2 o'clock.
	Afternoon session: After the opening exer-
cises, the condensed report was read by the
Secretary.
	Sister Hubbard said, "If we strive with all
the energies of our souls to overcome our
weaknesses we have nothing to fear.  I often
think how blest we are in Zion, but we must
learn to love each other, and our neighbors as
ourselves."
	Sister Harriet Hunsaker spoke of the great
work we are engaged in; if we shall inherit
celestial glory we must earn it.
	Sister Richards, from Ogden: "I hope the
Lord will bless me; I feel small, because we
naturally look to the Priesthood for instruction.
	We are called upon every hour, every mo-
ment, to live so we can enjoy the Spirit of the
Lord. I think it a great responsibility to
raise one child." Related an incident about
polygamy; one sister said, "If I have lived
polygamy about right I have preached a louder
sermon than if I had spoken a mile long." "It
is a terrible thing to make covenants and
break them; we need to be prayerful; it is our
duty to assist one another; we should make our
duty a pleasure; when we accomplish a little
we are building up Zion. We have not so
many brethren around as we used to have. If
any of you have a husband not quite as good
as he ought to be, you must forgive him; may-
be he does some good that you don't know of."
Showed the folly of loving riches. "When we


first came here we felt very humble and prayed
a great deal; I don't believe the Lord will send
us harder trials than He is willing to give us
strength to bear. You and I belong to the
Lord's people, and we know He wants a tried
people. As long as we are here let us strive to
live right. We have been told ever since we
were children that this time would come; we
ought to build up Zion. If we lavish kind-
ness on any one we expect them to be kind to 
us again; the Lord expects the same of us. We
cannot be charitable enough; we must forgive.
Kindness comes from God, hatred from the
adversary.  I cannot say what the tempter
will tempt me with to-morrow, but to-day I
feel that I love the Gospel more than I did
forty years ago; and I loved it then and felt
happy in it."
	Bro. E. A. Box addressed the assembly on
many interesting subjects, and particularly so
on the great responsibility of parents. "We
should strive to govern our children; bring
them up in a pleasing way before the Lord; we
claim we are regenerating the world. We do
expect to be more virtuous, more sober, teach-
ing our children morality and honesty. We
do not talk enough about the first principles, or
converse enough with our children upon them.
We should be very careful with what we say or
do at home."
	Emilia D. Madsen was the next speaker.
Prest. Harriet Snow made a few closing re-
marks, endorsing all that had been said; the
Spirit of the Lord had abundantly been poured
out upon all present, and every heart had re-
ceived new warmth and strength.
	After singing and benediction by Brother
Graham, conference adjourned for three
months.
