[WomansExponent | Vol25 | 1896 | August | Issue: 3 | Title: ABRAHAM HOAGLAND CANNON. | Author: R. M. F]

ABRAHAM HOAGLAND CANNON.

BEND low your heads ye lofty peaks,
In sadness bow, fair Zion weeps;
And hide ye vales beneath a cloud,
While we her children weep aloud.

O murmur softly, rippling stream,
When hearts are sad too gay you seem;
To fairy dell go! hie away
Where stricken mortals never stray.

Cease song-bird, cease your glad refrain,
And tune your notes to softer strain;
How can ye be so blithe and free,
When all around, you sorrow see?

Did you not know that noble man,
That true apostle of the Lamb?
Of whom ’tis said his life was pure,
Whose absence we must now endure.

Have ye ne’er listened to the voice
That made his hearers heart rejoice?
As filled with charity and love,
He taught the way to God above.

Nor have ye seen the kindly smile,
That showed the heart contained no guile?
Nor heard the lonely widow bless,
The hand that brought her happiness?

And care ye nothing for the sire,
Whose bosom burns with heavenly fire?
But now with grief and sorrow wrung,
He mourns a brave and loyal son.

Do ye not heed the widow’s tears—
O Father soothe their coming years,
And guard them with Thy loving care,
Let hope and trust displace despair.

The children too, O Father bless.
And clasp them in Thy fond caress;
May harm or evil never come
To offspring of this chosen one.

And Father comfort all Thy saints,
And listen to our heartfelt plaints;
Teach us O Lord that we may see,
Thine hand controls our destiny.

Lo! comes the answer through the vale,
From mountain peaks and flow’ry dale;
And e’eu the voices from the tree,
Blend with the stream’s sweet melody.

“We cannot mourn the absent one,
That such a glor’ous work has done;
We know it was the Master’s will,
And joy His wishes to fulfill.


Ye erring mortals cease to grieve,
“Though he were dead yet shall he live,”
But join in our triumphal song,
That one so valiant and so strong—

In faith, and righteounsess and worth,
Was for a moment lent to earth,
An almost perfect light to shed,
That in its rays your feet may tread. 

Then being all too good to stay,
Like some bright star he leads the way;
Hosanna! this our song shall be,
Death’s swallowed up in victory.
							R. M. F.


[Column 1]
