General Conference of the Relief Society. By Amy Brown Lyman. The Annual Conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City on Wednesday and Thursday, April 3 and 4, 1918. On Wednesday three sessions were held in the Bishop's Building. At 10 o'clock 'a. m. and 2 o'clock p. m. meetings were held for stake officers and stake board members. At 7 p. m. a public meet Department.ing was held under the direction of the Home Economics On Thursday, April 4, two general sessions of Conference were held in the Assembly Hall at 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. Thursday evening, April 4, a reception was held for all Relief Society delegates. The attendance at the conference was unusually large. At the opening officers' meeting there were present 320 representatives, and at the afternoon session there were 325. At the general session on Thursday morning in the Assembly Hall, there were 1360 in attendance and on the afternoon of the sam^ day, the number reached 1814. Roll call at the officers' meeting showed the following official representation: General Board members, 20; stakes represented, 63—52 by stake presidents and 11 by other reps; resentativethe other stake officers besides these were 30 counselors, 13 secretaries and 9 treasurers. Twelve stakes were not represented. Three missions were represented, two by presidents and one by a member. The missions represented were the Northern States, the Western States, and the California missions. One of the. important features of the conference was the splendid music furnished by the Relief Society choir, of 125 members, under the direction of the General Chorister, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward. In addition to furnishing music for all of the regular sessions of the conference, the choir furnished special numbers at the Home Economics meeting and gave an entire program at the reception. 308 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. By special invitation of Prof. A. C. Lund, Director of the Tabernacle Choir, the Relief Society Choir, assisted with the oratorio, "Elijah," singing-. from the east gallery the chorus, "Lift Thine Eyes," to the accompaniment of the echo organ. The artistic rendition of the solo, "Lead, Kindly Light," by Prof. A. C. Lund, with the Relief Society Choir singing the chorus, at the Assembly Hall, and also the sextette fromi "Lucia," rendered at the Relief Society reception by the choir, were real gems and were especially appreciated. The ushers for the conference, furnished by the Pioneer stake, were on hand early and late at all the sessions, and directed the large crowds so ably that there was no delay nor the slightest confusion. On Wednesday noon, luncheon was served to the 320 stake officers who were in attendance at the officers' meeting. GENERAL OFFICERS' MEETINGS. Morning Session. President Emmeline B. Wells presided at the meetings of the conference and gave the opening address. She referred very feelingly to the sad condition existing in the world today on account of the great war. She felt that the present era is probably a preparation for the Millennium, and she urged that the Relief Society women be prayerful and live so that they may understand the things of God. Mrs. Wells prayed especially for the boys in the trenches, that they might be filled with hope, courage and peace. The annual financial and statistical report of the General Society was read by the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. The report was particularly interesting in view of the fact that it embraces, in addition to the regular features, a report of the conservation and war work accomplished by the women of the Relief Society during the last year. Some of the interesting items were emphasized. Following is the report: Balance on hand January 1, 1917: Charity fund $14,803.03>^ General fund 49,910.57 Wheat fund 67,166.89 $131,880.49>^ Receipts: Donations: Charity fund 55.903.41 General fund 54,856.45>4 Wheat fund 13,400.71 124,160.57>^ Other receipts 72,049.93 ' Total $328,091.00
GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 309 Paid for charitable purposes $ 53,883.37 Paid for general purposes 123,078.29 Balance on hand December 31, 1917 Charity fund $18,095.95 General fund 54,871.04 Wheat fund 78,162.35 151,129.34 Total 1$328,091.00 Resources and Liabilities. Resources: Balance on hand Dec. 31, 1917, all funds$151, 129.34 Value of wheat on hand 308,462.21 Value real estate, buildings and furniture 238,931.61 Value of invested funds 24,767.39 Other resources 16,955.75 Total $740,246.30 Liabilities Indebtedness $ 2,557.24 Balance net resources 737,689.06 Total $740,246.30 Wheat Account Receipts: Wheat on hand Jan. 1, 1917 11.089,208 lbs. Wheat donated during 1917 389,147 " Wheat purchased during 1917. . . . 620,496 " Other wheat receipts 232.233 " Total 12,331,084 lbs. Or 205,518Vi.,bu. Disbursements: Wheat on deposit with P. B. O.. . . 5,028,745 lbs. Wheat in local Relief S. granaries 5,305,307 " Wheat in other granaries 1,040,878 " Other wheat deposits 220,638 " Wheat sold 631,389 " Shrinkage, waste and loss 104,127 " (Actual Wheat on Hand) . . . . (11,595,568 " ) or (193,259^ Vg.bu.) Total 12,331,084 lbs. Or 205,518Vi5bu. 
 Statistics. Membership Jan. 1, 1917: Officers 6,430 Teachers 13,476 Members 23,922 43,828 Admitted to membership 6,770 Total 50,598 Removed or resigned 4,699 Died 560 Membership Dec. 31, 1917: Officers 6,492 Teachers 13,858 Members 24,989 (Present Membership) (45,339) Total 50,598 General officers and Board members 23 Stake officers and Board members 1,032 Number of meetings held 36,028 Average attendance at meetings 14,642 Number of Relief Society organizations 1,085 Number of books in Relief Society libraries 5,597 Number of Relief Society Magazine subscriptions 12,190 Activities Penny Temple fund, 1916-1917 $13,588.90 Days spent with the sick 36,581 Special visits to sick 78,066 Families helped 5,868 Bodies prepared for burial 2,311 Number of visits by stake officers 5,485 Number of days spent in Temple work 23,863 Assistance to missionaries or their families $ 2,977.50 Fund raised from special work $17,311.
 311 Conservation and U^ar Work. Wheat raised by Ward Relief Societies 4,691 bu. Potatoes raised by Ward Relief Societies 88,347 bu. Fruit and jelly canned by \\^ard Relief Societies. . . . 42,650qts. Dried fruit conserved by Ward Relief Societies 12,375 lbs. Dried vegetables conserved by ^^'ard Relief Societies 21,097 lbs. Fruit and jellies canned by individual members of Driedthevegetables Relief Society for 'family conserved use by individual • members 3,264,804 qts. of the Relief Society for family use 199,910 lbs. Other items such as remodeling clothing, making quilts, etc. — number of articles 44.643 Paid for Liberty Bonds $24,685.61 Number of Red Cross memberships taken by Relief Society members 14,078 Number of articles made for Red Cross by Relief Society members 49,569 Attention was called to the small indebtedness of the Relief Society, and also to the increase in membership. During the last year, the membership increased 1,445. While there is a great increase in many instances, as shown by the report, there is a decrease in the number of special visits to the sick and the number of visits by stake officers to the w^ards. Mrs. Lyman congratulated the stakes for the splendid compilation of reports made by the stake and ward secretaries, stating that there was a great improvement over the work of the previous year. Reports from the following stakes were listed as correctly compiled: Alberta, Bear River, Blackfoot, Emery, Granite. North Sanpete. North Weber, Oneida, Pioneer, Raft River, Salt Lake. San Juan, Sevier. Shelley, South Sanpete. Woodruff, Young. Those containing slight errors were: Boise, Ensign, Snowflake, Bannock, Beaver, Cottonwood, Hyrum, Juab, Millard, San Luis, South Davis, Teton, Union, Alpine, Box Elder, Ogden, St. Joseph, Cassia, Idaho, Jordan, Taylor, Tintic. Since the last October conference, on December 23, 1917, one new stake has been organized — the Montpelier stake, with Mrs. Agnes Pearce, president. Reorganizations have taken place in the following stakes: St. Joseph, reorganized January, 1918, with Mrs. Josephine C. Kimball, president, to fill the vacancy made by the resignation of Mrs. Sarah B. Moody; North Weber, reorganized January, 1918, with Mrs. Georgina G. Marriott, president, to fill the vacancy made by the resignation of Lucy A. Steers; Utah stake, reorganized February 1, 1918, with Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, president, to fill the vacancy caused by 
 the resignation of Mrs. Alartha A. F. Keeler; ; Eastern States misson, reorganized October, 1917, with Miss EHzabeth Thomas, president, to fill the vacancy made by the resignation of Miss Margaret Edward. The following additional items were reported: In the potato competition for prizes offered by the First Presidency, the Relief Society of the Roosevelt ward, Duchesne stake, received the second award of $500 for the largest yield of potatoes on one acre of ground, the production being 39,173 pounds. The president of this Society is Mrs. Alice M. Lambert. The Home Economics Department of Utah stake recently published a cook book with the double purpose of furnishing suitable war time recipes and of raising funds for the Provo chapter of the Red Cross. The book was very creditable as well as practical and a large sum was realized from the sale of the book. The General Board members visited all of the seventy-four stakes during last year, and in addition visited a large number of the branches in the Northwestern States mission and California mission. Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman were delegates from the Relief Society to the National Conference of Social Work held in Pittsburg in June, 1917. Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman attended the executive conference of the Mountain division of the American Red Cross in Denver, in October, 1917. At the Red Cross Institute for Home Service, held in Denver from November 4 to December 16, the Relief Society was re'presented by the following: Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, Salt Lake City; Mrs. J. W. Hendricksen, Logan; Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, Provo, and Miss Cora Kasius, Ogden. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams and Emily S. Richards were delegates from the Relief Society to the National Council of Women held in Washington, December, 1917. Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth and Mrs. Heber Sears of Chicago, represented the Relief Society at the Congress of National Service held in Chicago, February, 1918. The announcement of the adoption of a Relief Society pin or emblem was made. The pin consists of the Relief Society monogram on a field of white, surrounded by golden sheaves. President Wells announced, with deep regret, that Priscilla P. Jennings, one of the Board members, had passed away since last conference. She also announced that Mrs. Donetta Smith Kessler had been chosen to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Mrs. Jennings. Mrs. Kessler was introduced to the assemblage by President Emmeline B. Wells. She stated that she appreciated very much GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 313 the honor that had been conferred upon her, and she pledged herself to faithful service in the cause. She expressed her great interest in all phases of Relief Society work. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams, who is chairman of the Woman's Committee of the State Council of Defense, explained the relation of the Council of Defense work to the Relief Society and other women's organizations. She impressed upon her hearers that the Council has no intention whatever' of encroaching upon the identity or disrupting the work of any society or Church association. She stated that the aim of the Council is "to secure co-operation of women in all efforts concerned' with defense work; to correlate the work of public and semi-public organizations, that co-operation and harmiony might rule, rather than competition, duplication of effort and misdirected energy. All heads of organizations were urged to preserve the various departments of work under their supervision to the end that, when normal conditions are resumed, the organizations will be intact. It is through societies already organized that the Council of Defense hope to accomplish its more effective work. All activities will be correlated with the National Defense throughout its various state and county divisions. Organizations are requested to keep a record of all war activities, which record will prove of value to the Council of Defense in making its report of the woman's work of the state to the government. Mrs. Williams spoke of the praise already accorded Utah women for their splendid organization and work, and asked that the Woman's Committee of the Council of Defense be given all support possible by Relief Society women. Mrs. Susa Young Gates announced the publication by the General Board of Relief Society of a surname book. She stated that the book will be unique in every w^ay. Adapted entirely to the use of the Relief Society genealogical students, it will possess wide interest for every person in the Church. The chapter heads are as follows: Ancient Racial History, Shem's Disobedient Races. Ham's Tribes, Japheth's Tribes, Early European Race History, Where the Races Settled in Europe, Races in Great Britain. Personal Names. Evolution of Surnames, Patronymics. Sire Names, Scotch and Irish Surnames, Battle Abbey Roll, Domesday. Liber Vitae, Anglo-Saxon Names, Place Names, Official Surnames, Trade Names, Nick Names, Prefixes and Suffixes. French Surnames, German Surnames, Danish Surnames, South Sea Surnames. Chinese Surnames and American Surnames. The maps, illustrations and tables are: Maps. Canaan. England, Europe, Roman Dominions. British Isles, Ancient World, Europe. Ancient Egypt, The Ancient East, Assyrian Empire, the 
 three Scandinavian countries, and one or two others. IllustrationsTemple: in Jerusalem, Chinese Temple, Domesday Book, etc. Tables: Pedigrees of David, Descendants of Noah, Houses of Lancaster and York, Henry VH, House of Hanover, French Kings, Bonaparte Family, Houses of Stuart and Hanover, Antediluvian Patriarchs, Welsh Pedigrees,- Pedigree of Saul, Anglo-Saxon Kings, Norwegian, Danish and Swedish Ancient Royal Pedigrees. In addition to all this there will be an index of perhaps 300 pages, consisting of nearly every surname in the Church, taken from the census lists in the Presiding Bishop's Ofifice; and to practically every surname will be attached the definition and origin thereof. The edition is very small. It will be impossible to allow each ward to purchase a number of books. However, there will be a few left over from the expected number of one to a ward. Those who desire to purchase the book must send in orders at once (money may come later), as we already have many orders in the office now and when the supply is exhausted no more will be printed. Mrs. Gates stated that the book would occupy double the amount of pages at first expected, because of the fact that many illustrations, maps and the mammoth index have been added, and it has been found impossible to publish the book and sell it at $2 a volume. The assembled general and stake officers voted to raise the price of the book to $3 per volume. A rate of $2.75 per volume will be allowed where books are purchased in lots of one dozen or more. Address letters and orders to the General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman. Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, busines manager of The Relief Society Magazine, thanked the women very cordially for their hearty support the war interfered of The Relief with Society' Magazine, prompt mail deliveryand. asked patience if Afternoon Session. Counselor Julina L. Smith outlined the duties of Relief Society women as they were announced years ago by the Prophet Joseph Smith. She spoke also of the added duties since the outbreak of the war, and urged the women to remember three things — their own strength, the cause they are working for, and the boys in the national service. Having recently visited Camp Kearny, Mrs. Smith brought a word of cheer and comfort to the mothers who have sons in that camp. She stated that the soldiers were, in many instances, better cared for than at home. She felt that not all would go into the battlefield to die, but that those who GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 315 would be called by death, either at the war front or at home, were soldiers needed on the other side. Mrs. Amy B. Lyman outlined the duties of officers in the Relief Society organizations. She cited four big ideals which had been evolved by the nation since the outbreak of the wardevotion to cause, unity, obedience to authority, and willingness to train for service. On these four things, she said, the Latter-day Saints Church had been greatly criticized in the past; for these four things since the outbreak of the war the Church had received its highest compliments. These ideals, she said, had been the cause of the great success of the Relief Society. Mrs. Lyman stated that all officers in the Relief Society should first of all be women of honor and integrity, women with abiding faith and with a testimony of the gospel. She urged each woman to fill, to the best of her ability, the office, to which she is appointed, making a specialty of the particular work to which she is called. In a great many instances people have the wrong attitude toward their work. For example: It is often the case that instead of making the most of the positions to which they are called, women neglect their own work and encroach upon the work and duties of other officers. It is the duty of a president to preside and to look after the general work of the Society. Her particular effort should be placed upon the work as a whole, and not on the detailed portion thereof. A president who spends all her time with the small details loses sight of the broadness of her own work. She should, therefore, rise above the details frequently and get a broad view of the situation. No president can afford to do the work of the secretary. As soon as she does this, she neglects her own important work and loses her great opportunity to forward the general work of the society. Any president who prefers to do the secretary's work rather than her own work, should resign as president and take up the work of the secretary. Presidents should compare their work frequently with the work of other stakes and wards, and see that it is up to the standard. The counselors are aides to the 'president and should be consulted freely by the president regarding all matters connected with th stake or ward organization. There is wisdom in counsel. Counselors should not be ignored. They should help with the work and should help to bear the responsibility connected with the.work. Secretaries should be chosen with regard to their particular fitness for the work they are to do, just as organists are chosen for their particular work. The work of the Relief Society has become so complicated, and the work of the secretary so specialized that unless she has had some previous training for this work, it is very hard for her to cope with the situation. 
 The work of the treasurer is also rather technical, and women should be chosen for this position, if possible, who have had some business training. Teachers should appreciate the great importance of their special field of work, being prompt with their visits and in no way neglecting them. They should aim constantly to live up to the ideals set for them and to do the work in the best possible manner. They should be wise and discreet in their dealings with families and should make it a point to carry hope and good cheer into all the homes which they visit. The work of the class teachers is, in a sense, specialized work. The woman who accepts the position of class leader should spare no pains to present lessons in an intelligent and edifying manner. This will require a great deal of study and preparation on her part. A class leader who is well prepared and enthusiastic over her work is a real power in the society and a great aid to the officers in maintaining a high grade of interest, and in increasing the attendance at Relief Society meetings. A class leader may judge of the effectiveness of her work b}' the results she obtains. Stake and ward prcsick^nts should see that their organizations are complete. When vacancies occur they should be filled at once. Mrs. Lyman read the following extract from a Circular of Instructions on Relief Society work: "A stake president, who is incapacitated for any reason, or who intends leaving her home for any extended period, should consult with the presiding priesthood as to her resignation. It is unwise for any organization to be left without an active head." Meetings for stake officers should be held at least once a month. A meeting for stake and ward officers should be held at least once a month. The speaker requested that all circular letters sent out by the General Board be preserved carefully for future reference. Mrs. Martha A. F. Keeler spoke a few moments on "The Ideal Relief Society," emphasizing the importance of having the meetings conducted with tire spirit of prayer, humility and love. The time should be spent with important and eternal things, and all temporary, trivial things should be ignored. IMeetings should be opened and closed promptly according to scheduled time and those responsible for the program should see that ever}1;hing is in readiness so that no time is wasted. Mrs. Inez Knight Allen spoke briefly of the Hoover Cook Booh recently published by the Relief Society women of the Utah stake, stating that those stakes who desire to handle the book in large numbers might have special concessions by applying to the Utah Stake Relief Society. GENERAL COXFEREXCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 317 Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley moved a vote of thanks to the Bailey Floral Company for the handsome easter flowering plant presented to the General Board. The motion was seconded by Mrs. Crismon and carried. Evening Session. Dr. Melvin C. Merrill, of the Utah Agricultural College, spoke on "Home Gardening." He emphasized the need of careful planning for the garden, with consideration of the amount of foodstuffs needed by each member of the family. He decried the idea of planting as many seeds as happened to be obtained at a seed store, but declared that every inch of ground should be used to the greatest advantage. Intensive gardening, Dr. Merrill insisted, must" be the great slogan of the summer's activity. If there were weeds it was a sure proof that the garden was too large for its crop. The soil should be carefully prepared and fertilized. Agreat variety of vegetables should be planted and early summer crops should be speedily replaced with those to be harvested inthe fall. Prof. Byron Alder, of the U. A. C, emphasized ths need of raising poultry as one of the big foodstuffs of the nation. With the shipping of all possible meats to the war zon*, Prof. Alder said the poultry yard must be made to furnish a big part of the nation's protein foods. It takes two years, he asserted, to raise a beef for the market, one year for pork, one year for mutton, but eggs and poultry can be kept almost constantly on the market from the time the hens begin laying. Every family in the country, he urged, should raise enough eggs to last it a year, the spring eggs to be put away in' liquid glass for the winter. He told of the care needed by the young chicks in order to insure the greatest possible production of eggs, urging especially plenty of water and sufficient meat, fish and bone scraps. Prof. Alder also urged the raising of a large variety of chickens. Miss Joan Moen, of the U. A. C, gave a demonstration in the remodeling and renovating of old clothing, emphasizing the possibilities ofold silk hosiery, woolen underwear, and other articles usually thrown away. The morning session of our Relief Society conference in the Assembly Hall found a crowded congregation ready for the excellent program which had been prepared by the