[Vol56 | October 1969 | Page 760 | General Feature | Make Your Own Baby's Book Grace | Diane Jessen]
u may prefer to draw your own if you have artistic talent. You will need a fine felt-tip pen in a bright color for writing page-headings and also a bottle of glue or rubber cement. PROCEDURE Begin by using one of the heavy plain sheets for the inside cover page. Use a stencil or write as neatly as possible "This is the story of" followed by a blank line if the book is for an unnamed baby. Write in the name in large, attractive letters if you know it. Trim the page with flowers, birds, pictures, or whatever appeals to you, but make the name the focal point of the page. Page two is the personal record sheet, trimmed, if desired, with tiny flowers in the upper margin. Under the heading "Important Events," mother may wish to write such details of baby's birth as his measurements, attending physician, and time of arrival. Page three is the personal health record which may be decorated similar to page two.

Make Your Own Baby's Book Page four is the pedigree chart with the title "My Family Tree" added at the top of the page. Using colored pencils, sketch in the outline of a large tree which nearly fills the page from top to bottom. Very lightly fill in the coloring with pencil where desired. This will add background to the page. But will not obscure the names and dates when they are added later. Page five is made from the plain heavy bond paper and is divided down the middle by a wavy line, a short straight line or other design. It need not extend from the top to the bottom of the page, but only four five or six inches in the center. Choose one type of dividing mark and use it on all the divided pages throughout the book. Entitle one section "Visitors" and the other "Gifts." Add any pictures or trim that you consider appropriate. Page six is also divided into two sections. These are entitled 'First Foods" and "Favorites." Page seven is for "My Development" and may contain subheadings such as "First Smile," "Sat Up Alone," "First Word," "First Steps," and others. Page eight can be divided three ways and labeled '""My Birthdays" with subheadings for "First," "Second," and "Third." Page nine is for "My First Christmas" and "Second" and "Third." Additional pages may be added later for other birthdays and Christmases. You may choose to devote a whole page to just one birthday and include snapshots of it. Page ten is divided into two sections which are labeled "Travels" and "Teachers." Page eleven is for '""Mother's Notes" with one corner set aside for information on "My First Haircut." A small envelope can be glued here to hold a lock of baby's hair. Page twelve contains a space for "My Birth Announcement" and "My Footprints." Page thirteen is entitled "Birth and Blessing Certificates." Page fourteen is for "Cards and Clippings." The heavy bond paper is sturdy enough to glue these items on satisfactorily, but, if you prefer, you may purchase sheets of plastic film which fit over these pages. Then the certificates will stay in place without being glued and will be protected from dust and fingerprints as well. Page fifteen is for the portrait pedigree, and is followed by a blank page entitled "Snapshots." These pages are sufficient for a basic book for baby. If you are making one for your own baby, you can assemble the materials and take them along when you go to the hospital. Then you can spend those lonely leisure hours after baby arrives in finishing his book just the way you want it.. As your child starts to school, you may wish to add a page for each year including a picture of him. On his twelfth birthday, you can present this record to him and let him have the opportunity of keeping it up to date. He may wish to copy some of your genealogical pages of his ancestry to include in his book. If your child shows a desire to expand and continue the book, you could give him a more durable and permanent cover for it for another birthday. In this way, his "baby book" can grow with him and provide a cherished record of all his life. 759 on I ' sook Bh Bae =) & ag He ay
