[Vol56 | October 1969 | Page 769 | General Feature | Editorial— What Shall the Harvest Be? | Louise W. Madsen]
[Editorial— What Shall the Harvest Be? Louise W. Madsen]

Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department.

Relief Society Activities EAST MILL CREEK STAKE (UTAH) HOLDS VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION, May 2, 1969 Left to right: East Mill Creek stake and ward visiting teacher message leaders: Bea Savage, stake; Gayle Jorgensen, Third Ward; Alta Dean, Eleventh Ward; Jean Bruderer, Sixth Ward; Darlene Parkin, Fourth Ward; Elva Williams, Twelfth Ward; Tanetta Sorensen, Seventh Ward; Eileen Dunyon, East Mill Creek Ward; Carmen Thompson, Ninth Ward; Ada Whiteley, Second Ward. Bodell Balli, President, East Mill Creek Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The members of the stake board were in charge of planning our first visiting teacher convention held in our stake in nearly a decade. The theme for the convention was 'Trees of Life,' and an original skit was presented which enumerated the commendable qualities of various forest trees and related these qualities to the work of a visiting teacher. "Music for the convention was rendered by a string ensemble and a chorus of Singing Mothers under the direction of Karen Smith, chorister, and Genevieve Callister, organist. Elna P. Haymond of the General Board spoke on 'The Purpose and Importance of Visiting Teaching.' "The convention proved to be inspirational and a fitting climax to a year of devoted service by our visiting teachers."' 769 a TTT October 1969 DENVER SOUTH STAKE (COLORADO) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS INTERNATIONAL SMORGASBORG DINNER, April 13, 1969 Members of the Littleton Ward who sponsored the English Foods section, left to right: Dona Stone; Jean Cauble; Helen Lowe, President; Jean Bush; Penny Milne. Helen B. Thornton, President, Denver South Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Over 600 members of our stake and their guests enjoyed our international smorgasborg dinner. Upon entering the gaily decorated cultural hall, one caught the spirit of a fun-filled evening. Delicious food from seven different countries was served from cleverly decorated booths, by sisters in native costumes. "During the evening, entertainment closely associated with the countries represented was presented. It was an outstanding event, and greatly aided the fund-raising drive for the ward Relief Societies."' B OREM STAKE (UTAH) SPONSORS A CREATIVE WRITING CONTEST March 15, 1969 Winners in the creative writing contest and stake literature class leader, left to right: Jeralyn Moncur; Beth Taylor, stake cultural refinement class leader; Connie Eitner; Shirley Jo Freese; Cecilia Harris; Deborah Summers; Gloria Chapman; Roger Chapman; James Jeppson. Bertha T. Kirk, President, Orem Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We feel that we have had a very successful year, climaxing with a creative writing contest. Plans are for making this an annual event. It was for poetry and short story, and open to both men and women from the age of twelve on up. The divisions were separated at nineteen years of age. "The contest opened in November 1968 and closed in March of 1969. We had four categories for judging in the poetry: humorous, sacred, secular, and overall, with both junior and senior divisions in each category. ''We are very happy about the results of this contest and feel that it has enriched the lives of all who participated." CALIFORNIA NORTH MISSION, TEMPLE INDIAN BRANCH HAS ACTIVE RELIEF SOCIETY Seated, left to right: Alice M. Funk, Secretary-Treasurer Temple Indian Branch Relief Society; Violet Alexander, President; Irene Ashenfelter, First Counselor. Standing, left to right: Rena Louverin; Margaret Lewis; Mary Yazzie; Priscilla Chiago; Katherine Cleveland; Elsie Brown. Leonora B. Cox, former supervisor, California North Mission Relief Society, reports: 'We are pleased with the progress of this new Relief Society, organized one year ago. The officers are Indians from tribes throughout the country. These sisters meet in love and sisterhood. They carry forth a full program of lessons. Throughout the winter months, and in the summer they have met each week to work on handicraft items. All of the officers and teachers are at least part Indian."' Edna. C. Terry is the new supervisor of the California North Mission. LR TE ~~ LL Suton sh Aatatsr Sesksec eae aeeree? rr ne ee October 1969 WILFORD STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS "ONE WORLD," May 1, 1969 Left to right: Kathy Moyes; Phyllis McKee; Elsie Fudge; Jerry Catmull; Janet Baer. Elna Hart Palmer, President, Wilford Stake Relief Society, reports: ''We all felt that our 'May Day' program was a tremendous success. Our overall theme was 'One World,' _ and we had each ward sponsor a booth representing a different country. "Our program consisted of special musical numbers from Germany, Norwary, and Tonga, and our Singing Mothers performed 'One World,' and 'When God Sees Your Garden.' A musical skit entitled 'It's Time for Terry' depicted a mother of six chil: dren shopping in a time store. Her money was twenty-four hours with which she had to decide what was of value and should be purchased with that exchange. "A recipe booklet featuring recipes from the officers and teachers of Relief Society from each of the wards was given to the sisters. Luncheon was served to 620 guests and evening refreshments were served to over 350 working mothers, husbands, and young people. '"'We were privileged to have Sisters Hazel Love, Lenore Gundersen, Fawn Sharp, and Luella Finlinson of the General Board of Relief Society present."' a SMITHFIELD STAKE (UTAH) PRESENTS "TO HEARKEN AND TO OBEY," April 28, 1969 Front row, left to right: Mary Mather; Claudia Christensen; Bessie Allsop; Ellen Johnson; Ellen Geary; Debra Parkinson. Second row, left to right: Myrna Low; Betty Phillips; LuJean Nilson; Wanda Shuldberg; Terry Johnson, Randy Funk; Marian Bischoff; Rula Farrell; Nancy Straatman; Diane Gleed. Selena G. Low, President, Smithfield Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The dramatization 'To Hearken and to Obey,' by Luacine C. Fox was presented at our stake leadership meeting. A select group of Singing Mothers presented a lovely song, 'The Virtuous Woman.' 'Stake board members arranged a lovely display table depicting all the phases of the Relief Society program, including a diffusion of instructions coming from the General Authorities, through the General Board of Relief Society to the local officers and to each member.'' NORTHERN STATES MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, June 13-15, 1969 Left to right: Irma Mortensen, President, Northern States Mission Relief Society; Rosanna Snyder, First Counselor; Minetta Christensen, Secretary-Treasurer; Mildred Walk, Second Counselor. Sister Mortensen reports: ''We held a three-day Relief Society conference with the theme, 'Treasures of heaven and Earth.' The sisters from the four districts and thirtytwo branches traveled from twenty to 450 miles one way to participate. 'There was an evening of talent display, a morning of bazaars, bake sales, luncheons, lesson reviews, and homemaking demonstrations, and a banquet and program. "Highlighting and culminating the convention was a Sunday morning fast and testimony meeting, with music from the Singing Mothers. Ruth Barton Kimball is the new supervisor of the Northern States Mission Relief Society. 772 ine i ee October 1969 BANNOCK STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT "LET MUSIC FILL THE-EARTH," April 26, 1969 Front row, left to right: Audrey Patterson, chorister, Bannock Stake Relief Society; Florence Panter, pianist; Edsel Prescott, organist. Ann P. Lloyd, President, Bannock Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our Singing Mothers presented the lovely musicale 'Let Music Fill the Earth,' by Lucelle R. Taylor. Narrating was Vivian Simmons, and the Statue of Liberty was portrayed by Donna Harris. "The Singing Mother selections were highlighted by flute accompaniment, piano and vocal solos, violin and vocal duets, girls, children, and male choruses, a Cub Scout chorus, and a male quartet. "'We had much support in this production from the stake and ward officers, and this will be long remembered as an outstanding cultural event in our stake." LIBERTY STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY HAS GOOD HOME STORAGE PROGRAM Presidents of the wards and branches of Liberty Stake Relief Society, seated, left to right: Cleora Smith, South Harvard Ward; Ruth VanDerMayden, Ninth Ward; Edith Crosley, Harvard Ward; Thelma Olsen, Liberty Ward; Mary Bendsten, Danish Branch; Maalfred Gran, Norwegian Branch; Michi Mano, Dai-Ichi Branch; Catherine Romyn, Eighth Ward. Back row, left to right: Marjorie Shepherd, Liberty Park Ward; Gwynne Smith, Second Ward; Nellie Hansen, stake Homemaking Counselor; Sarah McKee, Education Counselor; Deniece Starich, President. Sister Starich reports: ''We have been carrying forth a home storage program in our stake for several years. We encourage our sisters when shopping to 'buy a bag for themselves and a bag for the shelves.' 'We use the theme 'Plan to Can' regarding that which is in season. The Church cannery may be rented by any group, and they will order the produce or the group may bring its own. This group canned fresh pineapple from Mexico, and we have found that working together unites us in love and sisterhood and greatly aids the program." OLYMPUS STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PERFORM AT CONFERENCE, May 11, 1969 Front row, third and fourth from left: Lucile M. Salisbury, organist, Olympus Stake Relief Society; Carroll B. Smith, chorister. Lola J. Peterson, President, Olympus Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Our Singing Mothers were delighted to have the opportunity of singing at our stake quarterly conference. We deemed it especially appropriate since it was Mother's Day. Eightytwo sisters performed, singing 'The Lord Is My Light,' and 'Prayerful Hour.' " 

774 October 1969

 SAN DIEGO STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RELIEF SOCIETY SPONSORS A CULTURAL ARTS FESTIVAL, April 25, 1969 Presidents of San Diego Stake Relief Society who were honored, left to right: Carolyn Westover, Counselor to the first stake Relief Society President, Mary Christensen who is deceased, Rasmina Price, Counselor to Josie Bay, former member of the General Board; Thora Halgren; Enid Miller, I\da Andersen; Thair Milne, current President. Sister Milne reports: ''We held a cultural arts festival featuring music, art, literature, and drama, to honor our city as it celebrated its 200th anniversary, and to edify and enrich the lives of our sisters. An original pageant was presented which portrayed the part Latter-day Saint women have played in the development of San Diego, ending with a scene honoring each of our past and present Relief Society presidents. 'Music added its grace to the evening in the form of a women's string quartet. There were two original musical scores in the pageant. Over 100 pieces of art work were on display, including many lovely creations of needlework. The creative writing talents of our sisters were displayed through a printed booklet. "Over 350 sisters participated in the festival and more than 700 attended. We feel it was a very edifying event." 776 Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 100— Joseph Smith Evaluated Elder Roy W. Doxey (Reading Assignment: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135.) Northern Hemisphere: First Meeting, January 1970 Southern Hemisphere: June 1970 OBJECTIVE: The Latter-day Saint woman strives to strengthen her testimony that Joseph Smith is a Prophet and that The Church of Jesus Christ was restored through him. INTRODUCTION One of the inspired documents of the latter days was written by President John Taylor at the time he was a member of the Council of the Twelve. (D&C 1844 ed.; Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, Hyrum M. Smith and Janne M. Sjodahl, Rev. Ed., p. 855.) During the remainder of this year, we shall have an opportunity to consider' the great truths found in that scripture, Doctrine and Covenants, Section 135. When a man speaks or writes by the Holy Ghost, it becomes scripture—the will, mind, word, and voice of the Lord, "and the power of God unto salvation." (D&C 68:4-5.) When imbued with the Spirit of the Lord a person can know the _ truth uttered by that Spirit. In this manner the truth is revealed and known by the honest in heart. Ultimately, this is the final test of religious truth. (D&C 50:19- 22.) Measured by this standard, the member of the Church may know that Elder Taylor was under the inspiration of the Holy Ghost when he _ penned the document about the martyrdom of Joseph and his brother Hyrum Smith. (D&C, Section eso. ) By his' apostolic calling Elder Taylor was qualified for this work and, also, because he and Elder Willard Richards, later to be a Counselor to President Brigham Young, were with the martyred brothers on June 27, 1844, at Carthage Jail, Illinois.