[Vol56 | October 1969 | Page 762 | General Feature | Granny Nancy D. | F. Tuddenham]
Nancy D. F. Tuddenham Katherine, Northern Territory, Australia Wi lways Granny, never ny Sister, just Granny. A She was Granny to all of us, bless her. An Islander from the Torres Straits, brown of skin and great of heart. Loving her large family, all relatives included, and loved and respected by them. As her name implies, she was not young in years, but was young in spirit. Once we wanted something different for entertainment for a conference. What? Then came the answer — Granny knew Island dances, she could teach us how to do them. So, Granny did, much to our enjoyment and her own. We would sit on the floor, four or five white sisters, three or four native sisters, with Granny in front of us. 760 She would sing the song, and we would try and write down the words phonetically, then we would try to sing them. Why ree roh, ah why ree ree roh, Cor mah tee, cor mah tee, Why ree roh, ah why ree ree roh, Cor mah tee, cor mah tee, Ah kiapee kiapee kiapee Eoh ra coh roh kiapee oh Gh Gh Gh Coh roh, Ah kiapee kiapee kiapee Coh ra coh roh oh oh Gh oh oh coh roh. Then she would show us the movements. As we tried, we must have looked very funny. Granny's ample form would shake with laughter. "No! I'is way, watch me!" Aggie, her daughter-in-law, would start the beat again, using a couple of knives on a chopping board. "One two tree go!" And we would try again, very often ending up helpless with laughter ourselves, as we strove to attain the grace and rhythm of the dance. Eventually we could manage. Porma was best at learning the movements; Dot, best at learning the words; the rest of us got through somehow. If we couldn't master the words, we sang the tune, if neither—we made believe. Granny would always tell us "Don't watch me—look at peoples out t'ere." But try as we would, we had to watch her, or get lost. Her great patience won _ through, though. Then with our coconut leaf skirts, paper leis around our necks, floral dresses, colored rags at our ankles, and pretty scarves tied to our wrists, we were on. Granny stole the show—as she should. The energy she put into each dance, sitting down, or standing up, singing with all her might, was something to be seen. With the last breathless "Herp!" she would bring us to a stop. Granny would be laughing with, it seemed to be, the sheer joy of living. Incidentally, we were asked to do these dances quite a few times. Granny—with her wonderful testimony of the gospel, and her great faith in and love for her Heavenly Father. Many a testimony meeting Granny there has not been a dry eye in the chapel, as she has given her testimony in her English, which made it all the more poignant, because she would not get the words she wanted to use. Her greatest joy was her son and his family steadily growing in strength in the gospel, and her most ardent prayers were for the one who had left the fold, and the ones who would not enter. Granny—who poured out her love on all and sundry, a kiss and a hug for everyone. Her crinkly gray hair pulled back to a bunch at the back, very often with an hibiscus flower stuck into it. Her wide—I must admit—toothless grin that was wonderful. She was proud—as any Islander. Proud that two of her grandsons were on a_ building mission. Proud of the priesthood they and her son held, the positions her daughter-in-law and granddaughter held—the unity there was in the family. Still trying to "larn 'im English more better," so she could "understan' more better t' gospel." An enigma in the branch, and a well-loved one. Whose nimble fingers could do the loveliest embroidery, make the prettiest leis? Who always had a smile and a cheery word, even when her heart or her body was aching? Who loved everyone, and whom everyone loved. Who? Our Granny. ES 

761 October 1969

 Mary Roseltha Fuller Burnett, Ben Lomond South Stake, Ogden, Utah, seldom experiences an idle moment. If she is not cooking or baking, she is sewing or quilting, all of which she does very well. Her rolls melt in your mouth, and she designs her own quilts, having completed more than 150, along with 100 pair of embroidered pillowcases. Everyone in her ward looks forward to receiving a telephone call from Sister Burnett on her birthday, an assignment she faithfully and happily fulfills for the bishop. She has served in the presidency of Relief Society and in the other auxiliaries, and has been beloved as a teacher in all of the Church organizations. Sister Burnett has a large family tree, consisting of thirteen children, forty-one grandchildren, ninety great-grandchildren, and six great-great-grandchildren. Eva Elizabeth Harmon Gledhill, Riverside Stake, Salt Lake City, Utah, has made more quilts than she has time to count. In one year, at the age of seventy-six, she completed thirty large quilts alone, and had pieced the tops for five more. She intends that each of her forty-five grandchildren and twenty-six great-grandchildren will have one of her quilts. She has nine children. Sister Gledhill has been a faithful Relief Society visiting teacher for sixty years and is still teaching. She has also served as Relief Society secretary, and, when as Magazine representative for seven years, her ward was on the Honor Roll. She has served in the presidencies and has taught many years in the other auxiliaries. 762 HEAR'T ROOM FOR HOME I Alice Morrey Bailey 5 Chapter 5 SYNOPSIS: Several major changes have taken place in the Freeman family as a direct result of Kim, the father, and Mary Ann, the mother, bringing Kim's father from his lovely little home in Mayville, Utah, to Los Angeles to care for him after hospitalization for a fractured hip. Mary Ann has had to resign her teaching position to care for him, even though she has been supporting their son, Tommy, in his last year of college, and their daughter, Rosemary, has expected her to stand the expense of her coming wedding to Cary Marks. Rosemary, who has previously said she had no intention of working, applies for Mary Ann's teaching position, where she has been substituting, and gets it. Tommy blandly accepts a scholarship which has been available to him for the last two quarters. Nevertheless, the family budget is still strained, with Mary Ann feeling the brunt of it. ® For a moment Mary Ann was shocked, even frightened, at the command in Kim's voice. "What's mine is yours, don't you know that, honey?" he went on. "You know what there is to spend. Go ahead and spend it." That was right. She did know how much there was to spend, but it was practically all spent by the time Kim got it. If only they had stayed in their smaller home, which was paid for! But it had seemed the only thing to do, to turn it in on a bigger place as the family grew. Four bedrooms had not been too much, with the children coming often, sometimes for overnight visi
