The Relief Society Magazine volume 56 October 1969 Number 10 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford Business Manager Belle S. Spafford

THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer 746 commandments of God. Jesus urges his followers to guard against the suggestions of the devil. Not only do these suggestions withhold men from good deeds, but they inspire evil thoughts and draw men to sin. The devil attacks at every point where weakness may lie, and never stops in performing his mission of evil with one kind of temptation alone. We are told to observe the condition of the soil in the story. The seed was the same, whether it fell on good ground or poor. The gospel is the same. It is the extent to which it is received which makes the difference. Some hear the word and embrace it for a brief period.

THE GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford, President Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor Mayola R. Miltenberger, SecretaryTreasurer 746 commandments of God. Jesus urges his followers to guard against the suggestions of the devil. Not only do these suggestions withhold men from good deeds, but they inspire evil thoughts and draw men to sin. The devil attacks at every point where weakness may lie, and never stops in performing his mission of evil with one kind of temptation alone. We are told to observe the condition of the soil in the story. The seed was the same, whether it fell on good ground or poor. The gospel is the same. It is the extent to which it is received which makes the difference. Some hear the word and embrace it for a brief period. As soon as obstacles appear, their enthusiasm dies as the roots from the seed sown in shallow soil shrivel from lack of nourishment. Some hear the word, but the pursuit of the world's pleasures soon smothers its voice, as the thorns and weeds choke out the burgeoning seed. Some hear the word not at all, it does not penetrate their consciousness, as the seed which falls on ground too hard for it to take root. Some hear the word and it thrives and grows within their souls. They tenderly nurture it, cultivate it, keep it free from weeds and thorns and reap harvests of blessings. Their eternal lives are abundantly good and yield an hundredfold to the harvester. What shall the harvest be? Each individual assures his own harvest. He reaps the consequences of his acts and deeds as time goes by. At the end of his mortal life, the sum of all of his productive years is the great harvest when the good is separated from the bad, as the wheat is separated from the weeds and carefully stored in a granary, and the weeds destroyed. It is from the harvest, from our receptiveness of the seed, the word of God, we will be judged. What shall the harvest be? Blessings or condemnation according to our works. —L. W. M. Ah. —E 7 ee eee. * >: —_ > eee ———————. ' = a v Ls 7 at a Seer t v ~, — 7 * se a ~~. Vom no: - } a, = P ror '. Sot Se ban A ements, wt. Leone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Winniefred S. Manwaring Mary R. Young Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner Hazel S. Love a Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Belva B. Ashton Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Darlene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba O. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson Norma B. Ashton Maurine M. Haycock Amy Y. Valentine Marian R. Boyer Orlene J. Poulsen Marjorie M. Reeve Ada J. Jones Helen G. Lach Aline R. Pettit Johna de St. Jeor Beverly J. Pond Inez T. Waldron Anna Jean B. Skidmore (= a ee!