
RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE  MINUTES      297 
you."  All  activities  have  a  place  in  this  great  organization.  In 
my  experience  as  a  teacher  in  the  mission  field,  I  found  the  Lord 
to  be  a  good  paymaster,  not  in  gold  and  silver  but  in  the  .satis- 
faction that  comes  to  us  only  when  we  have  done  our  duty. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  NURSE  AIDS'  CLASS 
Mrs.  Emma  A.  Empey,  Member  of  General  Board 
The  General  Board  regrets  very  much  that  it  is  necessary 
to  announce  that  the  Relief  Society  course  for  nurse  aids  at  the 
L.  D.  S.  Hospital  has  been  temporarily  suspended.  This  action 
was  taken  in  order  to  protect  the  standards  of  the  L.  D.  S.  Hos- 
pital. It  is  hoped  by  all  concerned,  however,  that  within  a  short 
time,  the  course  may  be  resumed. 
You  are  all  aware  of  the  fact  that  high  schools,  universities, 
hospitals,  and  other  institutions  must  maintain  certain  established 
standards,  in  order  to  have  recognition,  and  in  order  to  have  the 
graduates  of  such  institutions  recognized,  and  it  seems  that  the 
ruling  with  regard  to  hospitals  is  that  unless  a  hospital  has  two 
hundred  beds  daily  occupied,  the  American  standards  will  not  per- 
mit of  such  hospitals  having  two  schools  for  nurses. 
Recently  a  hospital  inspector  was  here  from  New  York,  mak- 
ing a  survey  of  the  various  hospitals  throughout  the  west.  She 
intimated  to  the  L.  D.  S.  Hospital  that  in  all  probability  there 
would  be  objections  by  the  Hospital  Commission  to  the  course  for 
nurse  aids.  Soon  after  her  return  to  New  York,  a  letter  was  re- 
ceived by  Supt.  Grant,  of  the  L.  D.  S.  Hospital,  stating  that  in 
order  to  maintain  its  recognition,  the  L.  D.  S.  Hospital  must  dis- 
continue the  course  for  nurse  aids.  Supt.  Grant  and  the  Board 
of  Trustees  of  the  Hospital  appealed  to  the  national  rating  organ- 
ization for  special  permission  to  continue  the  course,  explaining 
the  great  need  of  the  course,  and  the  splendid  results  from  it. 
In  reply,  word  was  sent  that  the  course  must  be  cut  out  at  once, 
or  the  hospital  would  be  dropped  from  the  list  of  accredited  in- 
stitutions. So  the  Nurse  Aids  Class  has  been  discontinued,  but  it 
is  hoped  only  temporarily. 
The  class  which  had  been  installed  last  August  was  retained, 
but  the  new  applicants  who  came  in  the  first  of  the  year  were 
referred  to  the  County  Hospital,  where  they  all  entered  the  three- 
year  course. 
Since  there  is  a  feeling  throughout  the  United  States  that 
something  must  be  done  in  the  near  future  to  .supply  practical 
nurses  for  the  people  of  moderate  means,  it  is  felt  by  everybody 
concerned  that  it  will  not  be  long  until  arrangements  will  be  made 
in  various  hospitals  throughout  the  country  for  a  course  shorter 
than  the  three-year  course.     In  the  meantime,  Supt.  Grant  will 

298  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
make  every  effort  to  re-establish  the  course  at  the  L.  D.  S.  Hos- 
pital, and  it  is  hoped  that  not  much  time  will  elapse  before  this 
is  done. 
The  Relief  Society  will  for  the  time  being  continue  to  make 
every  possible  effort  to  recruit  nurses  for  the  various  Church 
hospitals,  and  the  Salt  Lake  County  Hospital,  and  the  General 
Board  asks  as  a  special  favor  that  stake  and  ward  presidents  con- 
tinue their  support  in  these  matters,  and  encourage  young  women 
to  enter  the  hospitals  for  regular  training. 
GENERAL  MEETINGS 
Morning  Session 
President  Williams  welcomed  the  large  audience  of  Relief 
Society  women  who  crowded  the  Assembly  Hall  to  capacity,  and 
extended  to  them  the  greetings  of  the  General  Board.  She  ex- 
pressed pleasure  in  the  large  attendance  which  she  felt  indicated 
the  great  interest  of  the  women  of  the  Church  in  the  work  of  the 
Relief  Society. 
The  speakers  of  the  day  were  presented  by  President  Wil- 
liams, according  to  the  scheduled  program. 
MRS.  GRACE  E.  CALLIS 
President  of  Relief  Societies,  Southern  States  Mission 
I  rejoice  to  be  a  worker  in  the  Relief  Society  with  my 
Southern  sisters.  They  are  naturally  a  kind,  hospitable  people, 
and  so  respond  readily  to  the  call  of  the  Relief  Society  work,  and 
are  willing  at  all  times  to  give  their  time,  their  talent,  and  their 
means  in  this  great  work.  I  desire  for  a  moment  to  speak  of  some 
of  the  spiritual  activities  among  the  sisters  in  the  Southern  States. 
The  sisters  in  the  mission  field,  perhaps  more  than  our  sisters  in 
the  stakes  of  Zion,  feel  the  necessity  and  the  responsibility  of 
promulgating  the  gospel,  and  so  to  them  is  given,  or  should  be 
given,  much  credit  for  the  establishment  of  places  of  worship  in 
the  missions.  Recently,  in  Memphis,  Tennessee,  a  little  chapel 
was  erected  and  the  women  of  the  Relief  Society  worked  diligently 
in  this  service,  and  through  their  efforts,  from  parties,  the  sale 
of  cakes,  etc.,  they  were  able  to  contribute  hundreds  of  dollars  to 
the  building  fund.  In  Columbus,  Georgia,  we  have  recently 
added  a  Sunday  School  room  to  our  chapel,  and  the  Relief  So- 
ciety raised  the  money  for  the  seats  and  for  the  other  furnishings. 
The  Springfield  Branch  of  Jacksonville,  Florida,  recently  were 
accorded  the  privilege  of  selling  cakes  at  the  front  entrance  ol 
one  of  the  large  department  stores  of  that  city,  from  the  sale  of 
which  they  raised  over  $100,  which  will  be  used  for  the  benefit 
of  a  chapel  to  be  erected  in  that  city.     In  Petersburg,  Virginia, 

RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE  MINUTES      299 
and  in  Danville,  Virginia,  the  Societies  are  taking  the  responsi- 
bility of  purchasing  lots  on  which  they  hope  to  erect  chapels.  In 
Petersburg  they  have  an  unfortunate  old  man  without  means  of 
support,  and  the  Relief  Society  is  giving  him  help.  In  Atlanta 
we  have  a  dear  sister  who  also  is  without  relatives  and  who  has 
reached  the  age  where  she  is  not  able  to  work  and  make  her  own 
living.  We  have  rented  a  room  for  her  and  are  giving  her  her 
food  and  clothing.  We  raised  some  of  the  means  to  help  in  this 
work  by  holding  a  rummage  sale.  The  merchants  of  the  city 
gave  some  of  the  left-over  ,stock,  and  we  were  accorded  free  of 
charge  places  in  one  of  the  public  markets  to  dispose  of  our  wares, 
and  so  gratifying  were  the  results  from  this  rummage  sale  that 
we  are  planning  to  have  another  in  the  near  future. 
We  have  an  organization  in  one  of  our  Indian  nations,  com- 
posed of  our  Lamanite  women.  They  make  very  interesting  and 
unique  articles  of  pottery,  which  are  sold  to  tourists  and  in  this 
way  they  raise  means  to  help  them  in  their  work.  Often  the 
tourists  meet  with  them  in  their  meetings  and  are  impressed  with 
the  faithfulness  of  these  dear  women. 
One  of  the  interesting  features  of  our  Relief  Society  work 
is  the  influence  that  it  is  having  in  the  outlying  districts  where 
the  sisters  are  not  permitted  to  meet  in  organizations.  They  feel 
in  their  hearts  a  desire  to  be  useful  and  to  do  something  that  is 
helpful,  and  they  make  quilts,  pillow  slips,  dresser  scarf.s,  and 
send  them  in  to  mission  headquarters  for  the  benefit  of  the  needy. 
Recently  we  had  an  elderly  sick  man  in  one  of  the  hospitals,  and 
each  morning  he  found  in  his  room  a  beautiful  bouquet  of  flowers. 
The  one  who  sent  them  did  not  wish  her  identity  discovered,  but 
sent  word,  however,  that  she  was  an  aged  relative  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith. 
My  dear  sisters,  many  of  you  who  are  before  me  today  have 
sons  and  daughters  or  loved  ones  in  the  mission  field.  In  the 
Southern  States  mission  it  has  been  my  privilege  and  blessing  to 
meet  with  these  dear  ones,  sent  from  your  homes,  and  I  want 
to  ,say  to  you  that  the  wonderful  influence  that  the  mothers  have 
over  their  sons  and  daughters,  and  the  teachings  they  have  given 
them  in  their  youth,  are  ripened  in  the  mission  field,  and  this  is 
the  great  thing  that  helps  them  to  go  on  in  this  great  field  of 
service.  During  the  last  month  there  came  under  my  observa- 
tion the  ,sorrow  of  two  elders,  bowed  in  grief  from  the  death  of 
their  mothers  at  home.  In  each  case  President  Callis  gave  per- 
mission for  them  to  return  home  with  honorable  releases.  But 
they  each  remained,  saying,  "My  dear  mother  desired  that  I  fill 
my  mission  in  honor.  She  would  desire  me  to  .stay  in  the  field, 
and  so  I  will  stay." 
May  the  influence  of  the  good  women  of  this  Church  still 

300  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
continue  to  shed  its  light  and  go  forth  and  help  to  hold  the  world 
together.  May  we  all  be  anxiously  engaged  in  the  good  cause  to 
bring  forth  much  righteousness,  is  my  prayer. 
MRS.  RACHEL  GRANT  TAYLOR 
President  of  Relief  Societies,  Northern  States  Mission 
The  mission  presidents  are  like  mothers  in  a  way.  I  claimed 
a  big  family  of  girls  when  I  was  at  the  L.  D.  S.  U.,  and  now  I 
have  a  big  family  of  missionaries.  The  only  trouble  is  that  in 
the  cases  of  some  of  your  sons  and  daughters,  I  do  not  see  them 
as  often  as  I  should  like  to.  If  there  is  one  ambition  in  my  heart 
it  is  to  make  the  mission  home  a  home.  We  are  glad  to  have  all 
the  missionaries  join  our  big  family.  Our  hearts  go  out  to  these 
wonderful  boys  and  girls  and  we  are  proud  of  the  progress  they 
are  making,  and  of  their  development. 
I  feel  very  inexperienced  in  Relief  Society  work.  When  I 
was  told  that  my  husband  was  to  preside  over  the  mission,  and 
that  in  most  cases  the  wife  of  the  mission  president  becomes  presi- 
dent of  the  Relief  Society,  I  was  nearly  overcome.  I  have  worked 
in  Church  organizations  all  my, life,  but  it  happened  that  I  worked 
in  the  Primary,  and  in  the  Sunday  School,  and  in  the  Mutual.  I 
am  learning  all  the  time,  however,  and  hope  to  carry  out  the 
desires  of  the  General  Board  successfully. 
We  have  in  the  Northern  States  mission  thirteen  organiza- 
tions. All  of  the  different  organizations  have  studied  all  of  the 
subjects  as  outlined  in  the  Magazine.  I  feel  proud  of  the  fact 
that  out  of  the  sixty-three  officers  we  have,  fifty-nine  subscribe 
for  our  Relief  Society  Magazine.  Next  year,  if  possible,  we  will 
have  100%.  One  thing  that  we  are  trying  to  emphasize  in  the 
mission  field  is  the  gospel  conversations  and  things  of  that  type 
that  we  do.  I  believe  that  in  the  mission  field  the  duties  of  the 
Relief  Society  officers  vary  a  little  from  those  in  the  stakes, 
because  conditions  are  different.  Women  missionaries  have  a 
wonderful  opportunity  of  preaching  the  gospel.  They  go  into 
homes,  where  the  missionaries  would  not  be  received.  By  their 
lives  they  teach  the  gospel.  Last  year  over  thirteen  hundred  gos- 
pel conversations  were  held,  and  many  Church  books  were  sold 
by  them.  These  records  and  figures  do  not  always  show  the 
amount  of  work  actually  done,  but  they  are  an  index  to  what  is 
being  accomplished. 
I  sent  out  to  the  Relief  Societies  in  our  field  three  questions 
— the  type  of  question  which  I  think  is  a  good  thing  for  us  to  ask 
ourselves  in  regard  to  the  gospel  of  Christ.  1.  What  does  Relief 
Society  mean  to  you?  2.  What  does  it  do  for  you?  3.  In  what 
ways  does  it  strengthen  the  branch  and  build  up  the  branch  with 

RELIEF  SOCIETY  CONFERENCE  MINUTES      301 
which  you  are  connected?  In  sending  out  the  questionnaire  I 
had  a  double  object.  I  wanted  these  members  of  the  association 
not  only  to  send  that  report  to  me  but  I  wanted  these  members  to 
take  stock  of  what  the  Relief  Society  meant  to  them,  what  it 
could  be  as  an  upbuilding  force  in  the  community  in  which  they 
lived.  It  was  inspiring  to  receive  the  letters. in  answer.  Under 
the  first  question,  one  answer  said  that  the  Relief  Society  was  a 
light  to  their  path,  and  a  guide  to  their  feet,  that  it  was  the  next 
thing  to  their  homes;  that  it  gives  an  opportunity  to  develop, 
both  as  individuals  and  groups,  and  that  through  the  doctrine  of 
good  works,  a  firmer  faith  is  gained.  Also,  in  another  way,  some 
one  expressed  it  that  the  Relief  Society  gives  opportunity  for  prac- 
tical application  of  the  gospel  principles.  Many  of  the  responses 
expressed  appreciation  for  the  Magazine  and  for  the  lessons  out- 
lined in  it.  In  a  very  personal  letter,  one  woman  said,  it  was  a 
prop  to  her  when  she  was  discouraged  and  downhearted.  Many 
of  them  said  that  the  thing  that  appeals  to  them  is  the  meetings 
for  they  feel  that  these  are  their  own  meetings.  Under  the  sec- 
ond question,  some  of  the  answers  were  that  the  Relief  Society 
gives  the  women  confidence  in  taking  part,  and  in  assuming  re- 
sponsibility. Answers  to^the  third  question  included  among  other 
thoughts,  this,  that  the  Relief  Societies  are  depended  upon  and 
relied  upon  for  much  of  the  important  practical  work  in  the 
branches,  such  as  furnishing  carpet  or  extra  chairs,  or  sacra- 
ment service  for  the  new  chapel. 
During  the  last  year  two  of  our  organizations  have  donated 
$100  each  for  the  building  fund,  and  when  you  consider  the  size 
of  these  organizations,  this  is  a  wonderful  record,  for  they  have 
an  average  attendance  of  but  15.  I  feel  that  the  Relief  Society 
women  in  this  mission  are  living  up  to  the  teachings  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  in  helping  and  strengthening  the  Church 
in  every  field  of  endeavor. 
MRS.  MARIE  YOUNG 
President  of  Relief  Societies,  Northwestern  States  Mission 
Since  my  appointment,  I  have  visited  the  coast  cities  of  our 
mission,  and  expect  this  coming  year  to  visit  the  remaining 
branches  if  possible.  In  the  city  of  Portland,  we  have  an  interest- 
ing  Relief  Society,  and  meetings  are  all  well  attended.  At  the 
present  time  this  branch  is  busily  engaged  in  raising  funds  to  put 
in  a  new  heating  system  in  the  chapel.  Our  branch  Relief  So- 
cieties hold  a  fair  each  year  to  raise  charity  funds,  and  the  mem- 
bers are  busily  engaged  during  the  summer  in  preparing  for  these 
fairs.  They  make  aprons  and  quilts  and  various  kinds  of  fancy 
work,  and  the  proceeds  from  the  sale  of  these  articles  are  used
