[Vol11 | June 1924 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Prest. Clarissa S. Williams]

Clarissa S. Williams extended greetings and a hearty welcome, in which she expressed her love and appreciation to the stake workers upon whose shoulders rests the great duty of supervising the work in the various localities. She paid a tribute also to the devoted ward workers who bear the brunt of the detail work in the organization and give such willing service.
Presidents Memorials: President Williams reported that in accordance with the decision of the General Relief Society to establish, in addition to the President Emmeline B. Wells Memorial, memorials for the other past presidents, the General Board has taken final action and has arranged for these memorials, as follows:
For President Eliza Roxey Snow, the Eliza Roxey Snow Relief Society Prize Memorial Poem, for which $750 has been set aside, the interest only to be used as prizes. The memorial provides for two prizes—first and second—to be paid annually, to the winners of the first and second prizes in a poem contest to be conducted annually; the winning poems to be published each year in the January number of the Relief Society Magazine. The first prize consists of $20; the second prize of $10. These prizes were awarded for the first time in January of this year.
For President Bathsheba W. Smith, the Bathsheba W. Smith Relief Society Memorial Temple Grant, for which $750 has been set aside, the interest only to be used for temple work. The memorial provides for temple work for women, the amount to be given yearly to one of the temples, beginning with the first temple established and dedicated, the others to receive it in rotation. The names to be worked for are to be taken from the charity lists of the various temples. This memorial shall begin functioning in January, 1925.
For President Zina D. H. Young, the Zina D. H. Young Relief Society Memorial Nurse Loan Fund, for which $750 has been set aside, the interest only to be used for loans. This memorial provides for a loan for L. D. S. Girls, who desire to enter training for nursing. Any applicant for this loan must show that the hospital or training school she wishes to enter is a reputable institution conforming to regular hospital standards, that she is able to meet all requirements of the school, and that she is able to present a certificate of character from her Relief Society ward president. The beneficiary must return the amount loaned to her within six months after the time of her graduation or after time of her discontinuing training, in which case no
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 275
interest shall be charged for the loan; however, for good and sufficient reasons, the time may be extended to one year, which will be the limit of the extension, but at the expiration of the first six months, interest shall be charged at the rate of 6%. The money for this loan fund will be available by January, 1925, and annually thereafter.
For President Emmeline B. Wells a loan fund for upper class women, known as the Emmeline B. Wells Relief Society Memorial Loan Fund, was established at the Brigham Young University in 1921.
Group Conventions: President Williams urged Relief Society stake presidents to make preparations for the group conventions and conferences as soon as the dates are set. Inasmuch as these official conventions and conferences are held only once a year, there should be a good representation, and careful preparation for the meetings, for which detailed programs will be sent from the General Board.
Visits of Stake Officers to Wards: A great effort has been made in the past few years to have the stake officers visit their wards rather frequently, but there is a possibility of carrying this too far. Wards should really not be visited too often. On the other hand it is a good plan for stake board members to go to their own ward organizations occasionally as ward members, in order to keep in closer touch with their own wards and with the work being done in these wards.
Wheat: While 80% of the wheat money has been deposited in the Bishop's Office, there are still some wards holding this fund locally. It is hoped that the whole fund will be centralized there in the very near future.
Bound Volumes: It was recommended by President Williams that every stake have a set of bound volumes of all numbers of the Relief Society Magazine. It would be very commendable as well as convenient for each ward to have a set of magazines. The Ogden stake has made a record in this direction—every ward in Ogden stake has all back numbers of the Relief Society Magazine, including the Bulletin, bound and filed for reference.