VISITING TEACHERS' TOPIC Miss Sarah M. McLelland, Member of General Board At our last conference President Williams requested that hereafter every stake instruct the teachers to discuss the teachers' topics in the homes of the people they visit.

It has also been suggested as an aid to the teachers that a few moments be set aside at the beginning of each work and business meeting for a discussion of these topics.

In some stakes teachers attend union meetings where the topic is discussed, but in other stakes there is not this opportunity.

Teachers should be instructed and prepared to take notes when the topic is discussed.

Much of the success of our organization depends upon the Relief Society teachers.

They are called the inspiration of the society and to be this inspiration they should make their messages important.

Just how to present atopic successfully is a problem.

We have, as teachers, the mothers of large families with many duties, we have young mothers just starting to solve the problems of life, and we have the convert who is willing to give a portion of her time to the work but feels new in the task.

A 
 helpful contribution in the discussion of the topic is often made by the families visited.

This is commendable.

Teachers and hostess should both be familiar with the teachers' topic and if teachers do not lead out in the discussion, the hostess should do so.

I would suggest that the teacher take her magazine with her and read aloud the topic.

This will help to open up the discussion.

The standard.

Of teaching must be high if we progress in this line of endeavor, and prayerful preparation will result in better service.

The teacher who is not converted to her work or who feels that she is not successful should not become discouraged, for the spirit of the calling comes often after one has put forth effort.

She should also pray for power equal to her task.

When teachers are inclined to lose heart and courage, they should bear in mind that any one who does her work in such a spirit as to reflect honor upon her work and upon herself, cannot possibly be counted as a failure.

Singleness of purpose, devotion to duty, and unremitting toil mark the road to success.

The failure in life is usually the one who was not prepared to do the things he had tried to do.

Any service that does not require self sacrifice is of little benefit.

In serving our God some of us give part-time service while drawing full-time pay.

We care for the office—not for the work.

"He who serves his brother best, Gets nearer God than all the rest." Teachers should appreciate the privilege of working as instructors under the direction of a prophet of the true and living God, who has said we can not be saved in ignorance, and should feel that this work is one of the greatest privileges the organization gives to its members.

An example of appreciating the opportunity of teaching is shown in the following incident: A district teacher told me recently that her husband wanted her to give up teaching.

He said she was over-burdened (being the mother of nine children). Her answer was this question: "Would you take the great joy which is my opportunity for public service, out of my life?" A careful study of the teachers' topics is absolutely necessary; so also is a careful study of the families to be visited in order to know best how to appeal to them.

Teachers visit homes of those who welcome them; also those who are indifferent.

It requires both experiences to develop us— everything has its opposite.

We are overjoyed when we are well received, and when our message is rejected, we are temporarily discouraged, but we put forth greater effort in order to succeed.

Teaching is not a minor calling; it is a holy calling.

The Bible teaches that "the eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee, nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you." All activities have a place in this great organization.

In my experience as a teacher in the mission field, I found the Lord to be a good paymaster, not in gold and silver but in the satisfaction that comes to us only when we have done our duty.