[Vol11 | June 1924 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Theology Lotta P. Baxter]

THEOLOGY Mrs. Lotta P. Baxter, Member of General Board I am sure you will all be delighted to know that from now until the close of the year we shall study the marvelous parables 
 of the Savior.

Isaiah prophesied that there would come a time when the gospel would be taught in parables, and our Lord and Master was the one who fulfilled that prophecy.

Isaiah prophesied and said, "People will hear and in no wise will they understand.

They will see but in no wise wiil they perceive." Jesus quoted this when he started his ministry, and he turned to his disciples and said, "Blessed are your eyes, for they see; and your ears, for they hear; for verily I say unto you, that many prophets and righteous men have desired to see these things which ye see, and have not seen them; and to hear these things which ye hear, and have not heard them.". Jesus of Nazareth was the greatest teacher who ever lived, and consequently the greatest psychologist, and he knew the value of teaching people by story, rather than by giving them the plain facts of the gospel, which they were too simple, and too childlike and too set in their ways, to understand.

A greater lesson may be taught to the average person by story than by giving plain, cold facts; so all through the ministry of Christ the parable was a favorite means of teaching.

The Savior used for illustrations the common things that he saw around him, to reach the greatest lessons that have ever been taught; and although two thousand years have passed, the parables are just as fascinating as they were when he presented them.

He used the seed and the sower and the fields; and to convince the women of the wonder of the gospel, he took the leaven or the yeast that they put into their bread to teach them the worth of the spirit of the gospel.

How wonderful it is for us to have these lessons, and how rich will be our knowledge if, at the close of the year, we have understood and memorized all of these marvelous parables, - for there is nothing more beautiful, either in Scripture or in literature, than the parables of our Lord.

Our grandparents' only readirs material was the Bible, and they faithfully read it to their children; but today, with the great amount of reading matter, books, magazines, newspapers, etc., we have grown away from Scripture reading, and for this reason we should doubly appreciate these lessons.

To show you how necessary it is for the human soul to have this food, 1 will tell you that the body calls for a possible three meals a day for sustenance and growth.

No matter how pressed we are for time, no matter how short we are of material, we supply these three meals a day, usually, and satisfy thoroughly the longings of the physical body for food.

The spiritual in us calls for nourishment just the same as the physical body.

But it is a more delicate, more subtle call, and sometimes we overlook it and pass it by.

This spiritual body is the something that will sustain us when we no longer have need for temporal food.

A foundation of faith, builded and strengthened by a study of our lessons will prove to be our best investment and RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 287 our best possession in our old age.

I am reminded of the worth of this spiritual food by a stanza in one of our hymns: "I spied Him where a fountain burst Clear from the rock; His strength was gone, The heedless water mocked His thirst, He heard it, saw it hurrying on.

"I ran and raised the suff'rer.

Up; Thrice from the stream he drained my cup, Dipped and returned it running o'er; I drank and never thirsted more.”; A good theological teacher will not try to give all there is in a lesson.

Lessons are to stimulate and incite interest, so that the class members will go home and look up not only the many beautiful things in the Scriptures that were given, but also those passages which were not given.

The lesson should arouse an enthusiasm that will stimulate Scripture reading.

I would like you to remember this distinctly, that the final and great aim of the theological lessons is to inspire every member with a desire to bear her testimony, and sufficient time must be allowed for this.

We would not think of trying to direct or to say how one shall bear testimony, but we do feel that we can - be educated a great deal along this line.

We should discourage as much as possible minute details of sacred things in the home, especially of sickbed and deathbed scenes.

These are not necessary to a testimony.

All we need to do is to have the Spirit of God, and be able to say as Job said, "I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that I shall stand with him in the last day,"—two verses, but that is all that is necessary.

I would like to bear my testimony to the divinity of this glorious gospel and for the privilege of working in it, and I wish to thank my heavenly Father for his goodness to me and mine, and I ask it for you all, in the name of Jesus Christ, my Redeemer and my King.

Amen.