EDITORIAL .   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. III. OCTOBER, 1916. 

 OUT OF DEATH LIFE IS BORN. Women go down into the Valley of Death every Death time human life is born to earth. The creation is a Birth, ? of life ? the conception of an idea the first vision ? of great enterprises the bursting glory of the dream of conquest ? these epitomize the bliss of human all lives. The realization, the achievement, the slow process of development, gestation, and of birth ? ah, these hours crowd into themselves all the poignancy, of struggle known to mortality. Many are ignorant of this law; or, knowing it, are unwilling to bear the pains of fulfilment. Out in the rosy dawn shines the vision, but the hours of restless labor, hopeless struggle, and mental anguish, which come with the glaring noon-tide, cannot be borne; and so the thought dies, the plan is set aside, and the idea withers, and the purpose is foiled. The power to conceive thought is, happily, not Creative confined to sex or condition. Nor is the endurForce Not ance to develop ideals and to carry enterprises an a Sex accident of circumstance or sex. The most highly Condition, organized personality, the greatest dynamic brain power, are common to men and to women alike. EDITORIAL. 585 Women more often exercise their powers in human development, while men expend their creative forces in public and social policies. Yet how few of them all follow the struggle to its source, or measure the dread weight of development and gestation when the joy of conception is upon them. Out of the heavenly gate of death we are Stones of born into earth-life. Through the gateway of Life's Gateway, earthly death we are born into heavenly life. The pangs of death are the stones out of which are built life's gateways. ,. Are you sweating and toiling up life's noonGethsemane tide, burden-strapped, and nerve-quivering? Before the What bright vision of yesterday is this toilTransfiguration, some today fulfilling? Paint the sky with the cloud glory of yesterday and the rich sunset of tomorrow. Be sure that birth travail is always severe, but the child of your purpose fulfilled will rest sweetly in your tired arms after the struggle is over. There is no achievement without struggle, no birth without pain, no bliss without a preceding pang. Every transfiguration is preceded by a Gethsemane. Yours as mine, mine as was the dear Master's. If your agony of unrest, your dread to go forward, your shrinking from the coming battle appalls your souls, remember that you are suffering as I suffer, bearing as Jesus endured. The greater the coming light, the deeper the present gloom. Every great artist shudders and gasps before the entering in upon performance. The keener the dread, the finer will be the achievement. The battle-horse sniffs the struggle from afar and champs at his confining bits. The laboring mother-animal, restlessly paces the earth, hoping against hope that the trial may be yet a little while postponed. The art conception hides in the farthest brain recesses, dreading entrance into organized life. Into the few hours of respite and joy which This is the follow birth, there floats another vision, a Only True Life, newer attainment. We may turn away with tired eyes and bid conception wait upon opportunity. But into life that intense life which is alive and thrilling with creative powers ? there passes an intermittent procession of glorious dreams, lofty visions. We may appraise and weigh vision-values, but if we are true followers of the Lord of Life, our souls will never rest supinely in the vale of inaction. We shall constantly aspire, create, conceive, develop and evolve. Yet ever in that restless progress, life struggles to conceive and death ever keeps the toll-gate Yet who would ? ! not suffer that he might create and bring forth thought, achievement, human and divine life. Ah, this is the life! ; Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in November. , WOMEN OF THE BIBLE. ELIZABETH AND ANNA. (Read chapter 1 of Luke, verses 5 to 25, 39 to 43, and 57 to 66, for Elizabeth and verses 36 to 38, inclusive, of the chapter; for Anna.) These two women are characters in the New Testament, and make their appearance, either directly or indirectly, in connection with Christ. Elizabeth was the mother of John the Baptist. Like her husband at the time their son was born, she was "well stricken in years." Her home is thought to be in the south, at Hebron or near there. Her husband, Zacharias, was a priest. This fact, if we were inclined to venture into the realm of conjecture, would give us a clue to the nature of her life. It would be a retired life, for one thing, and more deeply colored by religion, for another, than most other contemporary women. Not to Elizabeth, but to her husband, did the angel come to announce the birth of John. We do not know, of course, why this was, and it would be foolish to surmise the reason. Zacharias, it would appear, had been praying for a son, notwithstanding his old age. It is not difficult to imagine that this petition had been uttered year after year, as he came to the temple to perform his part of the sacred work there, and that, moreover, it had become a merely mechanical part of his prayer, just as often happens with us. This would account for his surprise when an angel informed him that his prayer had been heard and that his wife should bear him a son, whose name was to be John; just as some of us would be surprised if something we had been praying for in a mechanical way for years should come true. But this, to be sure, is not expressly said in the text. At all events, the prayer was answered Elizabeth "conceived, and hid herself five months." In due course of time John was born. And here we get a small insight into Elizabeth's nature. For, when this event happened, her relatives wanted to name the child Zacharias, after his father, but she said, "Not so but he shall be called John." They argued with her, but she insisted on her point. Evidently, therefore, Elizabeth had kept the GUIDE LESSONS. 587 whole matter to herself. On this, Zacharias' tongue was loosed, which had been bound since the angelic visitation in the temple. Filled with the Holy Ghost, he praised God and predicted that the child would "be called the Prophet of the Highest" and "go before the face of the Lord to prepare His ways." Before the birth of her own child Elizabeth uttered these memorable words, to her cousin Mary, who was about to become the mother of Jesus, which reveal something of her character: "Blessed art thou among women," she said, "and blessed is the fruit of thy womb. Whence is this to me, that the mother of my Lord should come to me? For, lo, as soon as the voice of thy salutation sounded in mine ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy. And blessed is she that believed; for there shall be a performance of those things which were told her from the Lord." Here, then, is the atmosphere in which Elizabeth lived, at least for a time? the longing of a Hebrew woman for a child (and this longing, as we shall see in the lesson that follows, was different from that of the woman of any other nation), the priestly life of her husband, the constant association with the temple and with everything that was sacred to the Jews of those days, the miracle of her conception in her old age when the "manner of women" was past with her, the constant knowledge that something unusual attached to her unborn child, something associated with the Messiah. All this would have a tremendous effect on any devout woman, most of all on a devout Hebrew woman. Anna, says Luke, was a "prophetess." Hence she must have been somewhat of a character locally. The same historian informs us that she was "the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher." Being eighty-four years of age, she had "lived with a husband" but seven years "from her virginity." All the rest of the time she had been a widow. She devoted her whole life to the service of God, for we are told that "she departed not from the temple, but served God with fastings and prayers night and day." The only time she makes her appearance in the New Testament is when Jesus, a babe in his mother's arms, is brought to the temple "to do for him after the customs of the law." Coming into the court at the instant that Simeon was giving his blessing and prophecy over the infant Savior, she "gave thanks likewise unto the Lord, and spake of him to all that looked for the redemption in Jerusalem." From the little that is said in the biblical narrative concerning Anna, we gather that she was a devout religionist and that she was a woman of great intelligence and faith for she both understood and believed in the promises touching the Messiah and in their fulfilment in Christ. Not only so, but Luke, in the phrase, "she spake of him to all that looked for the redemption 
 in Jerusalem," makes her one of the first, if not the first, to advocate acceptance of the Christ. QUESTIONS. 1. Give an account of what happened to Elizabeth, so far as we know it. 2. Contrast her with her husband in respect to faith. 3. Why did she "hide herself" for five months? 4. What would be her probable feelings regarding her condition as to her child? 5. Can you infer anything concerning the character of Elizabeth from the fact that she had this miracle happen to her? If so, what? 6. Give the details concerning Anna's life? What kind of woman was she? Give your reasons. LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in November. LESSON III. Genealogy and Art. Third Week in November. GENEALOGY. SCOTCH AND IRISH SURNAMES. The belief that the ancient Celtic race descended from one of the tribes of Israel is widespread among this people. They were a primitive warlike race which at one time occupied the greater part of western Europe, France, British Isles, southern Germany and Switzerland. The people themselves have been absorbed into other races, practically, while the language is extinct. The Welsh are probably the only ones who retain any considerable evidence of the ancient inheritances. These peoples were governed largely through tribes or clans. Their inherited patriarchal traditions were productive of similar results wherever they were found. They were intensely loyal to their tribes or clans. A chieftain as the embodied symbol of all the virtues and powers of the clan claimed their deepest allegiance. He was not a despot, nor did he possess arbitrary powers. He was controlled by a council of elders as were his Israelitish forebears. His home belonged to the clan or tribe and he could not bar his door against any member of his tribe, howsoever humble that neighbor might be. GUIDE LESSONS 589 It must be understood that the Gaelic race, although supposed to be of one blood, was divided into clans, and these clans were subdivided into septs or branches. We are told by Duncan Forbes that "a Highland clan is a sept of men, all having the same surname, and believing themselves to be related the one to the other, and to be descendants from the same common ancestor." However simple this division may appear in practice, it became considerably confused by various circumstances. One tribe might war against another, and most of the tribe become extinct through conquest. This was the case in the MacLeod clan. The MacRaes were servants or thralls under the MacLeods, after the battle which was one of practical extinction. The MacLeod widows and daughters married MacRae men and the MacRaes assumed the name of MacLeod. Sometimes because of feuds or occasional intermarriages, men from one tribe or clan joined another. Captives in war were added to clans. All of these circumstances, hindered the perfect clan distinction and the pure blood descent which is now so proudly claimed by the Scotch people. However, the custom was sufficiently rigid in its application to form the most exclusive division of tribal life known in Europe. Clan signifies literally, "offspring, children." In Irish this is called cland and in Welsh it is plant. The clan is the expansion of the family. Each male member was called Mac or "the son of" the first ancestor. Each member of the clan MacLeod was a MacLeod or son of Leod or of the clan Leod and the MacAllister; was a son of the original Allister. Sometimes when there were a number of Ians (which is the Scotch form of spelling John), existing in any one branch of the clan, it was customary to add a nick-name such as, red Ian MacAllister, giving the color of the hair, or the name of the father, etc., etc. The Irish clan customs followed largely that of the Scottish peoples. In Ireland the head of a tribe gave his name to his descendants or followers who called themselves by his name, preceded by hua or hy meaning grandson, and this has been anglicized into O', as O'Neal, for Hua Nial. Hua Conchabair has become in English O'Connor, and Hua Sulleabhain is O'Sullivan. The ancient Irish, like the Gaelic Highlanders, had their personal names, and that of the sept to which they belonged. Should there be need for discrimination between those of the same Christian name, the same mode of distinguishing one from another was pursued in Ireland as in the Scottish Highlands. In the tenth century King Brian Boru is said to have issued an edict that the descendants of the heads of tribes and families 
 then in power should take name from them, either from the fathers and grandfathers, and these names should become hereditary and fixed forever. The custom of adoption and absorption into tribes or class was as prevalent in Ireland as it was in Scotland. Irish names passed through a great many changes after their first introduction, and many of the descendants of the old families exchanged their names for others. In 1485 an Act was passed entitled "An Act that the Irishmen dwelling in the counties of Dublin, Myeth, Wriall, and Kildare, shall gae apparelled like English men, and ware their heads after the English manner, sware allegiance, and take English surnames." This Act directed every Irishman whom it concerned to "take to him an English surname after one towne, as Sutton, Chester, Trym, Syrne, Corke, Kinsale, or colour: as White, Blacke, Browne and that he and his issue shall use this name; under payne of forfeiting of his goods yearly till the premises be done." Thus constrained, the Mac and O'Gowans became Smiths; the Shonachs, Foxes; the MacIntires, Carpenters; the MacCogrys, L'Estranges; and the MacKillies, Cocks. Note: We suggest the classes shall purchase the book called Family Surnames and Their Story, by S. Baring Gould, chapter 18 for this lesson. QUESTIONS. Who are the Celts? What countries did they inhabit? Who are their descendants? What is a clan? How are they subdivided? What clan customs obtained in Ireland? Who was Brian Boru? What was the Act of 1485, passed by the English parliament, and how did it affect Irish surnames? What is the meaning of Mac? What is the meaning of O' ? ART. NOVEMBER LANDSCAPE. The leaves are falling, but they lie in heaps of brown under the purple branches of the wild birch and alder, the scrub-oak, maple and elderberry. Owing to the exquisite subtlety of coloring GUIDE LESSONS. 591 at this time of the year, our mountains are most beautiful. The white-trunk quaking aspen gleam through great and smaller green pines few of winter's withered leaves still hang by their; stems or huddle under the bare brush. As you walk through the deeply marked footpaths, a few rustle beneath your feet. Though the tenderness of spring is far away, November is filled with perhaps a greater beauty, even spirituality. Its tones are mellow, soft and low. Its colors are no longer rampant, flamboyant, as in September and October, but all subtle, exquisite. Just as does April, November sends the rain to wash and cleanse from dust every living thing. The ground must be a storehouse for water before the freezing time sets in and the snow blanket covers the whole earth. It is a time of sadness and of tears, and the mist envelops the hills. FREEZING TIME. The last of November is the time to organize a skating party, and remember skating is not just for young people. Thanksgiving time brings generally the first skating weather. Among the brightest memories of my young life was the skating party on Thanksgiving morning, followed by roast goose and wild ducks at home. QUESTIONS. a. Describe a canyon scene in November before the rainy season. b. Describe the November soaking wet day in the valley. c. Describe a November fog on the hills or in the valley. d. If you have a picture representing that time of year, refer to it. e. Describe the last outing at the canyon camp. f. Compare the Winter, Spring and Summer with this time of year. g. What is the character of the sky? h. Note the difference from the spring sky. i. Describe the skating weather. Which is lighter, the sky or the ice? Which is darker, the willows around the ponds or the far-off mountains? j. Make a sketch of skaters playing tag, on the ice. ARCHITECTURE. Provide a collection of pictures of beautiful buildings. We suggest that you take one subject such as, English cathedrals, Panama-Pacific Exposition, World's Columbian Exposition, French Exposition, or the Lewis & Clark Exposition. Mount the pictures on cards which may be pasted or pinned upon the wall. 
 SUGGESTION. Many sisters have missionaries in Europe or in the Eastern or Western states, who have perhaps sent views of wonderful architecture. Here is a place to utilize them. Familiarize the members with the names of the buildings, and the place where the buildings are erected. LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in November. THE SERVANT PROBLEM. ? Roll Call. What may I do to dignify home labor? ? Gem. "For though I be free from all men yet have I made myself servant unto all that I might gain the more" (1 Cor. 9:19). Introduction. The procuring of efficient help in the home is one of the real problems of the modern industrial world. In no other field of human work is there such lack of understanding between employer and employed, such lack of standardization or such general dissatisfaction. This lesson is presented with the hope of bringing to the attention of the