[Vol53 | February 1966 | Page 97 | Poetry | No Longer Missing Eleanor | W. Schow]
NO LONGER MISSING Eleanor W. Schow A drooping flag Weeps at half-mast; Our hearts are torn But our fears are past. 


 SELFEXPRESSION THROUGH MUSIC @ Self-expression through music is afforded in Relief Society through congregational singing, Singing Mothers choruses, accompanying, performance of preludes, interludes, and postludes, and through teaching and conducting. Hymn singing by the congregation is one of the most common, yet one of the very essential music activities in our Church service. This means of expression, in which all may take part, should at all times be thoughtful, sincere, and meaningful; and those participating should experience a feeling of reverence, devotion, and joy. HYMN PRACTICE PERIODS The practice periods are for the purpose of teaching and learning new hymns and songs, or for perfecting the rendition of those with which the members are already familiar. Music leaders should keep in mind the values that are to be derived from wellplanned practice periods. Besides teaching new songs to increase the repertoire, singing helps to strengthen the voices of Relief Society women and makes them more flexible and responsive. It aids in the development of more self-confidence and ease when singing with others. Just to sing another hymn without some definite planning for its betterment is not a profitable practice period. The success of congregational singing, as well as that of the 98 Florence Jepperson Madsen Member, General Board of Relief Society [ Address delivered in the Music Department of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1965] Singing Mothers, is largely dependent upon the efficiency and personality of the music leaders. Besides adequately preparing the materials that are to be _ presented, the conductor and accompanist should always go before their audience, or organization, radiating a feeling of warmth and friendliness. Such an atmosphere puts people at ease, and they respond in like manner. When introducing a new hymn or song: 1. Make brief mention of author and composer. (Data concerning their lives and works may be found in Stories of Our Mormon Hymans, by J. SPENCER CORNWALL, Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, Utah) 2. Study text of hymn— its philosophy, beauty, and strength. 3. Observe melody and harmonies. (The composer Haydn said: "It is the melody which is the charm of music.'') 4. Analyze rhythm and tempo. 5. Hum melody. 6. Sing softly with "oo" and "oh." 7. Sing words. (If necessary, correct pronunciation, notes, or rhythm.) This same procedure, with the inclusion of part rehearsals, may be followed in teaching new songs to the Singing Mothers. The book, Music Leadership in The Relief Society, published by The General Board of Relief Society, will prove very helpful to music leaders. For instance, in Chapter Seven, details concerning interpretation are given. Knowing in advance, as we do, the subjects that are to be pre- sented in Relief Society during the year, it should be comparatively easy to select hymns and vocal and instrumental music that will enhance and strengthen the various lessons to be taught. The hymns should be sung in keys of the medium range of voice, and, if needed, the music should be transposed to meet this need. Occasionally, the hymns in the male section of the hymn book are printed in lower keys, and accompanists can use these. A transposed copy of a hymn is needed only by the accompanist. THE CONDUCTOR The way in which the conductor conducts definitely influences those whom she leads. It should always be made a delightful and happy experience. Conductors should often check their conducting to make sure that eccentricities are not creeping into their work. Practicing before a mirror will reveal little variations and weaknesses in the conducting of which one may not be conscious.