[Vol53 | February 1966 | Page 98 | Special Feature | Self-Expression Through Music Florence | Jepperson Madsen]
[Self-Expression Through Music Florence Jepperson Madsen]

It also enables a conductor to see herself as others see her. When conducting, bodily movements are often too much in evidence, as is also the constant use of the hand and arm that is not wielding the baton. This makes conducting look laborious when it should be just the reverse —a graceful, meaningful art. One of the faults quite often observed, among both inexperienced and experienced conductors, is that of not conducting the long notes in a composition, but instead, just holding the arm out motionless and ceasing to conduct the baton pattern. This disrupts the natural flow of the SELF-EXPRESSION THROUGH MUSIC rhythm and creates a feeling of uncertainty among the performers as to what the exact length of the tone will be. Conducting without a baton is generally responsible for this inartistic habit. Let us, then, remember that all long notes are to be conducted, with the exception of the end note of a verse or the final note of a composition. However, if the singing ends, and the accompanist still has measures to play, the conductor uses the free hand to stop the singers and goes right on conducting the measures for the accompanist until the very end of the composition. Just as the singers are part of the composition from the very first note that is played or sung, just so are they part of the composition until the very last note of it is finished. Another suggestion, if followed, that will increase the efficiency of the conductor is that of always having a music stand directly in front of her on which to place the hymn book or copy of music. It should be arranged at a convenient height so that the conducting can be done effectively above it. In this way the hand, that would otherwise have to hold the music, is free, and can be used to suggest changes in volume, variations in rhythm, tempo, and style; and, by holding the index finger up, it can indicate the length of a tone that is being sustained. This free hand, which is called "the musician," is also used for the purpose of bringing in or releasing the vocal or instrumental parts in a composition. Therefore, it is most important in the artistic interpretation of a musical number. 


 If well-trained, this hand has a distinctive method of communication between the conductor and the performers. It is hoped that all music leaders will expand their activities beyond just that of conducting congregational singing and observing the practice period. Our sisters should have the opportunity of progressing musically, and be afforded the privilege and joy of participating in a Singing Mothers chorus. Not alone will this enlarge their appreciation and scope of music, but it will also be of value to the Relief Society organization and to the Church. The activity will challenge the music leaders and, at the same time, enlarge their capacity and understanding of this noble art. Music offers many avenues for self-expression. Choose from these offerings and become more prepared in your efforts to serve the Church. I will prepare myself and then when an opportunity comes along, I will be prepared for it.