Guide Lessons for June LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in June) THE DISPENSATION OF THE MERIDIAN OF TIME (Continued. ) JESUS?THE DISPENSATOR A. His name. Theologically, there is but one Jesus, the one of scriptural promise, the one whose name in heaven and on earth means, "God with us." (See Matthew 1:21-23.) This name indicates what Mes was before he came to earth and what he is and ever will be, God. In the light of this scripture we may understand Abinadi, the Nephite prophet, who declared: "And now Abinadi said unto them: I would ye should understand that God himself shall come down among the children of men, and shall redeem his people." Mosiah 15:1 The name of Jesus is a holy one, and any approach toward its desecration is pitiably degrading to the one who does it. Reverential use of this name is evidence of re'igious sincerity and Christian culture. B. Evidence concerning his parentage. 1. His Father was God. We are all the spiritual children of God but Jesus was the only child begotten of God by a mortal mother. "And the word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth." John 1:14. 2. The mother of Jesus. The mother of Jesus was a virgin betrothed to a man of ideal character, a man of sincere spirituality and refined humanity. His justice would not permit him to take Mary to his home and live with her as a wife with evidence against her faithfulness, and his mercy would not consent to her being publicly humiliated. He could not accept her, but he would not denounce her. He would jo as much as he could to help, and little as he could to hurt He planned seclusion but God's messenger removed from Joseph's mind the cloud of error, and he with Mary became the guardian of something more than mortal. How faithfully he kept his trust is shown by his solicitude for Mary and implicit obedience to the instructions of that guardian angel who read the murderous mind of Herod and directed the flight of the holy family into Egypt. This Joseph was a character whose conduct proclaimed him a nobleman on a par with his glorious opportunities. The mother of Jesus was the woman of all women, the highest elect of God. Jesus declared himself to be the Son of God but he spoke frequently of himself as the "Son of Man," in acknowledgement of the mother's part of his being. He was the Son of God by his Father and the Son of Man through his mother. C. His birth. Little wonder that Herod was greatly infernal in the answer to the inquiries of the students of the stars. Their question, "Where is he that is born king of the Jews?" startled him. This tyrant king was, no doubt, aware of the predictions made by Jacob in blessing Judah: "The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh come; and unto him shall the gathering of the people be." Gen. 49:10. The Babe of Bethlehem, born of Mary, was the Shiloh, the Son of God, the Redeemer of the world, the Prince of Peace, the only King of Israel to remain in office forever. D. Some evidences of the Divinity of Jesus. 1. Testimony of mortals. A. Men. 1. Simon in the temple. "And he came by the Spirit into the temple: and when the parents brought in the child Jesus, to do for himvafter the custom of the law, "Then took he him up in his arms, and blessed God, and said, 'Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy word: for mine eyes have seen thy salvation." Luke 2:27-30. 2. John the Baptist. "The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. "This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man which is preferred before me: for he was before me. "And I knew him not: but that he should be made manifest to Israel, therefore am I come baptizing with water. "And John bare record, saying, I saw the Spirit descending 
 from heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him. "And I knew him not: but he that sent me to baptize with water, the same said unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same is he which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost. "And I saw, and bare record that this is the Son of God." John 1:29-34, 3. Peter on the way to Philippi. "And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. "And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." Matthew 16:16, 17. B. Women. 1. Elizabeth at her home in the hills. "And whence is this to me, that the mother of my Lord should come to me?" See Luke 1:39-43, 2. Anna in the Temple. "And there was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Aser; she was of a great age, and had lived with an husband seven years from her virginity; "And she was a widow of about four score and four years, which departed not from the temple, but served God with fastings and prayers night and day. 2 "And she coming in that instant gave thanks likewise unto the Lord, and spake of him to all them that looked for redemption in Jerusalem." Luke 2:36-38. 3. Martha at the home in Bethany: "She saith unto him, Yea, Lord: I believe that thou art the: Christ, the Son Of God, which shou'd come into the world." John 11:27. (Jesus accepted Martha's belief as true.). Testimony of Angels. A. Gabriel to the virgin Mary: "And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name JESUS. _ "He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest: and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David: "And he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever; and of his kingdom there shall be no end." Luke 1:31-33. "One of the two which heard John speak, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother. He first findeth his own brother Simon, and saith unto him, We have found the Messias which is, being interpreted, the Christ." John 1-40. "Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and saith of him, Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile! "Nathanael saith unto him, Whence knowest thou me? Jesus answered and said unto him, Before that Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee. "Nathanael answered and saith unto him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God; thou art the King of Israel." John 1:47-51. B. The Angel with Heavenly Choir. "For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. "And this shall be a sign unto you; Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. "And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying, "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." Luke 2.11-14. 3. The Voice of God the Father. "And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him: "And lo a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased." Matthew 3:16, 17. 4. The testimony of the Holy Ghost. A. By its presence at the baptism of Jesus. B. Through Peter, in personal testimony. 5. Testimony of Jesus Himself. A. To his mother?"I must be about my Father's business." "And when they saw him, they were amazed: and his mother said unto him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? Behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing. "And he, said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?" Luke 2:48, 49. B. To Martha?"I am the resurrection and the life." "Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live: And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall. Never die. Believest thou this?" John 11:25, 26. C. To the High Priest?"'So I am." "But he held his peace, and answered nothing. Again the high priest asked him, and said unto him, Art thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed? 
 "And Jesus said, 'J am': and ye shall see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven." Mark 14:61, 62. D. To the Man who was Born Blind. "The man answered and said unto them, Why herein is a marvelous thing, that ye know not from whence he is, and yet he hath opened mine eyes. "Now we know that God heareth not sinners: but if any man be a worshipper of God, and doeth his will, him he heareth. "Since the world began was it not heard that any man opened the eyes of one that was born blind. "Tf this man were not of God, he could do nothing. "They answered and said unto him, Thou wast altogether born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out. "Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and when he had found him, he said unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God? 'He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him? "And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and it is he that talketh with thee." John 9:30-37. E. To the public assembly?"I have power to lay down my life and power to take it up?" "Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I might take it again. "No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father." John 10:17, 18. When he said, "Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends," Jesus, recognized the power of man to lay down his life, as many men and women have done for great causes and for their friends. But to no mortal had ever been given the power to take up his or. Her life again?Hence, his resurrection was the culminating testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ. Problems and Questions 1. Discuss the proposition:?Jesus resisted temptation as a man, but he overcame death as a God. 2. Prove that devils testified to the divinity of Jesus. 3. On what occasion did the Holy Ghost testify as to the divinity of Jesus Christ? See Mark 5. 4. In what way was the acceptance of Martha's belief and Peters' declaration as true, an indirect testimony of Jesus himself concerning his divinity? 5. Discuss the testimonies of the Latter-day Saints as a multiplicity of the testimony of Peter concerning the divinity of Jesus Christ. 6. Relate the circumstances of Jesus being condemned to death for declaring himself to be the Christ the Son of God. See Mark 14. 7. What ground is there for a belief that angels of both sexes took part in the announcement of the birth of Jesus? ) LESSON II Work and Business TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JUNE (Second Week in June) HOME TALKS Brigham Young I. Main facts of his life: Birth and parentage. Early education and training. - First connection with "Mormonism." Connection with exodus from Missouri. Connection with exodus from Nauvoo. Apostle and President. AT. Main facts of his work and mission: 1. Deliverer and leader of his people. 2. Community builder. 3. Statesman. 4. Prophet. III. Principle traits of his character: 1. Vision.?Ability to look ahead. 2. Executive ability. 3. Devotion to his religion. 4. Strong sense of justice. 5. His approachableness. SR Se Sayings of Brigham Young: If you are faithful to your calling let me tell you there are no blessings contained in the-celestial law of the kingdom of God, but what you will have a privilege to enjoy. 
 We are nothing, only what the Lord makes us. Without the light of the Spirit of Christ, no person can truly enjoy life. My religion must be with me from one Monday morning to the next, the year around, or it will not answer me. The object of this existence is to learn, which we can only do a little at a time. _Never serve God because you are afraid of hell: but live your religion, because it is calculated to give you eternal life. It points to that existence that never ends, while the other course leads to destruction. I want to say to my friends that we believe in all good. If you can find a truth in heaven, earth, or hell, it belongs to our doctrine. We believe it, it is ours: we claim it. References: "Biographical Encyclopedia"?Jensen. "Historical Record''?Jensen. "History of Utah"'?Whitney. "Life of Joseph Smith'?Cannon. "One Hundred Years of Mormonism"?Evans. A Lady By Amy Lowell You are beautiful and faded, Like an opera tune Played upon a harpisichord; Or like the sun-flooded silks Of an eighteenth-century boudoir. In your eyes Smoulder the fallen roses of outlived minutes, And the perfume of your soul Is vague and suffusing, With the pungence of sealed spice-jars. Your half-tones delight me, And I grow mad with gazing At your blent colors. My vigor is a new-minted penny, Which I cast at your feet. Gather it up from the dust That its sparkle may amuse you.