[Vol13 | April 1926 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Illustrating and Story-Writing for Children C. Nelson White]
Illustrating and Story-Writing for Children By C. Nelson White Perusing the innumerable weekly and monthly magazines professing to be written for, and covering the tastes of all the members of the average American family, one cannot help but notice the paucity of material available for the youngest minds.

Now and then a woman's magazine makes a half-: hearted attempt of devoting a page a month to the interests of child readers, but more often this attempt dies again after a few months of the most precarious existence.

More "necessary" articles, more "pressing matters" always seem to crowd it out of the paper sooner or later.

Altogether too often children are left to get what amusement they may out of the pages of the many "colored supplements" and "comic strips" of the daily papers 'This is a really deplorable condition, for their vulgar jests and degrading situations certainly exercise no good influence over the child mind.

The average intelligent adult might dismiss these things with a shrug, and think no'more about them, but for the child mind, soft and pliable and plastic, many of these situations leave a deeper impression than parents realize.

When analyzed for their moral value, or lack of it, rowdyism and thieving, cruelty and deceit, are but a few of the more common subjects for the majority of these strips, which seem to run the gamut of ail the more debasing things in life.

Therefore the pressing need of today is an attempt to give the children an education along worthwhile lines, served in such a manner as to be both wholesome and entertaining.

Good illustrations are quite a deciding factor in arousing the interests of children.

One of the most outstanding characteristics of the child reader, and this applies to the well grown youngster, too, is his hunger for illustrations.

This is not indicative of lack of intelligence, on the contrary it is a grasp for something to develop his experience.

Dealers in books for children testify, that not only do children select books by, appraising their interest through the pictures, but that adults will run through the illustrations, decide whether the story "looks interesting," and thus determine the purchase.

On the shoulders of the illustrator, therefore, lies much of the burden for the acquisition of a book.

Good pictures mean joy to the child heart, and many a worthwhile book has been enhanced a hundredfold through the artist's gift of interpreting the thoughts of the text.

The ILLUSTRATING AND STORY WRITING 187 mission of joy has never been fully preached, but we know that joy works toward physical health, mental brightness, and moral strength.

Joy is the most important mission in art for children. 'Through the pictures the little ones march right into the story.

Pictures cultivate their imagination.

Like an older brother or sister an illustration takes the youngsters by the hand and leads them into a land where delightiul surprises greet them at every turn.

It takes the children into a realm of vicarious living more elemental and more fancy-free than the perfected dramas of sophisticated adults.

It takes the objects, which little boys and girls know vividly, and personifies them so that instinctive hopes and fears may play, and be disciplined.

Cooperation and unity in text and picture?when they are artful for adaptations of life and form?grip the imagination of little folks. 'The question arises, "Must we not cultivate the child's imagination?" Truly, the child?limited in experience?loves to come in contact with the things he knows about, and yet nothing more quickly brings a smile than a surprise.

The most important thing, therefore, in children's stories is perhaps the artful blending of the more common, everyday happenings with education, elevating thoughts, and to do it in such a manner that the impression lasts.

The desire for the unknown, that ever present curiosity, is the charm of childhood that creates many delightful hours, and pictures and stories of the right type have a wonderful mission to perform.

With such friends the children journey to Fairyland; by some they are introduced to heroes who have fought and served for what is right and beautiful; some take them to strange lands, and show them how life goes with other peoples; some carry the children's hearts along with their inspired hearts into sacred places, and the children grow great in their own thoughts after these journeys.

Children's emotions are easily aroused, and on the shoulders of authors and artists lies the responsibility of guiding them into the right channels.

In every reaction which the child has for distress or humor in the tale, he deposits another layer of vicarious experience, which sets his character more firmly into the mold of right or wrong attitude.

Every sympathy, every aversion helps to set the impulsive currents of his life, and to give direction to his personality.

We cannot omit the adventures of the Land of Make-Believe from our educational program.

They are too well adapted to restless, active, and unrestrained life of childhood.

"Why special training in story-writing for children?" is a question frequently asked.

Behind the inquiry may lie either of two prevalent views.

One theory holds that any 
 person, though he lack the training, experience, and skill!

Necessary for adult writing, is able to write for children; the other, that anyone who knows enough for adults can, therefore, with equal ease, write for children?and the same viewpoints are accepted when it comes to illustrations.

The result of the two theories appear in the output of juvenile literature.
