LESSON III Literature (Third Week in June) AMY LOWELL Amy Lowell, the poet, whose death occurred about a year ago, belongs to the famous Lowell family of Massachusetts. She was the sister of A. Lawrence Lowell. President of Harvard University, which family produced James Russell Lowell, the poet, a few decades ago. The name Lowell suggests other Massachusetts names such as Cabot and Adams, so that if we admit of aristocracy in America, it surely rests with those old families. The people who knew Miss Lowell say that she was what one would call a large woman, yet she had the dainty hands and feet usually attributed to an aristocrat. It is probably well known to a good many people in Utah that Ada Dwyer Russell, the daughter of James Dwyer, well known pioneer book dealer of Utah, has been for many years the sympathetic and beloved companion of Miss Lowell, and that she is now on her estate looking after Miss Lowell's literary and property interests. Amy Lowell was born in Brookline, Massachusetts, February 9, 1874. Her father was Augustus Lowell and her mother Katherine Bigelow Lowell. Her life has been given over largely to lecturing and writing poetry. She is an exponent of the new poetry and has waged war continuously against the group who think that the new poetry should not be given a place in literature. Inasmuch as Amy Lowell is the first one of the new poets that we have introduced to our readers, perhaps it is only fair that we discuss new poetry for a moment. Louis Untermeyer, who is prominent among the new poets, feels that there is no given matter of mechanics in poetry that need be insisted on. To illustrate his point he calls attention to the Psalms suggesting that in the King James' translation of the Bible they might be regarded as prose because of. The form, while in Moulton's Literary Bible they look like poetry. Nevertheless, they are the same in either case and the Psalms are exalted enough in theme and expression to be poetry, whether their appearance is that of prose or poetry as the eye sees them on the printed page. In any event, it has long been proved that rhyme is not essential in poetry. Amy Lowell is what critics call an imagist, which is another way of saying that she appeals to the senses, the. 
 eye, the ear, taste and feeling, through the medium of images for the most part very beautiful, but not always so. Mr. Untermeyer says that Miss Lowell should have been a painter, for she is a poet of the external world, which means, she makes word pictures, or to repeat the idea in other language, she is a colorist in words. This issue of the magazine is devoted to children, Miss Lowell has written a number of childrens' poems two of which we shall include: THE CRESCENT MOON Slipping softly through the sky Little horned, happy moon, Can you hear me up so high? Will you come down soon? On my nursery window-sill Will you stay your steady flight? And then float away with me Through the summer night? Brushing over tops of trees, Playing hide and seek with stars, Peeping up through shiny clouds At Jupiter or Mars. [ shall fill my lap with roses Gathered in the milky way, All to carry home to mother. Oh! What will she say? Little rocking, sailing moon, Do you hear me shout?Ahoy! Just a little nearer, moon, To please a little boy. THE TROUT Naughty little speckled trout, Can't I coax you to come out? Is it such great fun to play In the water every day? Do you pull the Naiads' hair Hiding in the lilies there? Do you hunt for fishes' eggs, Or watch tadpoles grow their legs? Do the little trouts have school In some deep sun-glinted pool, And in recess play at tag Round that bed of purple flag?
I have tried so hard to catch you, Hours and hours I've sat to watch you: But you never will come out, Naughty little speckled trout!
"Miss Lowell obtained her early education through private tuition and travel abroad. These European journeys were the background upon which much of Miss Lowell's later work is unconsciously woven; her visits to France, Egypt, Turkey and Greece bore fruit many years later in the exotic colors of her verse."
Patterns is a good illustration of the idea expressed in the above quotation from Louis Untermeyer. We shall include part of the poem:
PATTERNS
I walk down the garden paths, And all the daffodils Are blowing, and the bright blue squills. I walk down the patterned garden-paths In my stiff, brocaded gown. With my powdered hair and jewelled fan, I too am a rare Pattern. As I wander down The garden paths.
My dress is richly figured, And the train Makes a pink and silver strain On the gravel, and the thrift Of the borders. Just a plate of current fashion, Tripping by in high-heeled, ribboned shoes. Not a softness anywhere about me, Only whalebone and brocade. And I sink on a seat in the shade Of a lime tree. For my passion Wars against the stiff brocade.
The daffodils and squills Flutter in the breeze As they please. And I weep; For the lime-tree is in blossom And one small flower has dropped upon my bosom. And the splashing of waterdrops In the marble fountain Comes down the garden paths. The dripping never stops.
Underneath my stiffened gown

Is the softness of a woman bathing in a marble basin, A basin in the midst of hedges grown So thick she cannot see her lover hiding, But she guesses he is near. And the sliding of the water Seems the stroking of a dear Hand upon her.
What is Summer in a fine brocaded gown! I should like to see it lying in a heap upon the ground. All the pink and silver crumpled up on the ground. I would be the pink and silver as I ran along the paths, And he would stumble after, Bewildered by my laughter. I should see the sun flashing from his sword-hilt and the buckles on his shoes. I would choose To lead him in a maze along the patterned paths, A bright and laughing maze for my heavy-booted lover. Till he caught me in the shade, And the buttons of his waistcoat bruised my body as he clasped me, Aching, melting, unafraid. With the shadows of the leaves and the sundrops, And the plopping of the waterdrops, All about us in the open afternoon? I am very like to swoon With the weight of this brocade, For the sun sifts through the shade.
In a month he would have been my husband. In a month, here, underneath this lime, We would have broke the pattern; He for me, and I for him, He as Colonel, I as Lady, On this shady seat. He had a whim That sunlight carried blessing. And I answered, "It shall be as you have said." Now he is dead.
In Summer and in Winter I shall walk Up and down The patterned garden-paths In my stiff, brocaded gown. The squills and daffodils Will give place to pillared roses, and to asters, and to snow, I shall go. Up and down In my gown.
Gorgeously arrayed, Boned and stayed. And the softness of my body will be guarded from embrace By each button, hook, and lace. For the man who should loose me is dead, Fighting with the Duke in Flanders, In a pattern called a war. Christ! What are patterns for?
Word painter that Miss Lowell is, like the nature painters of today who uses canvas and pigment, it is nature above all else that she delights to portray, consequently you will find all through her writings that she is constantly with nature. The poem characterized as a "Fragment" begins by asking What is poetry? We include it, as it is a very good example of the type of poetry Miss Lowell writes:
FRAGMENT
What is poetry? Is it a mosaic Of colored stones. Which curiously are wrought Into a pattern? Rather glass that's taught By patient labor any hue to take, And, glowing with sumptuous splendor, make Beauty a thing of awe; where sunbeams, caught, Transmuted fall in sheafs of rainbows fraught With storied meaning for religion's sake.
Fragment is possibly the best description in literature of the stained glass windows of the great cathedrals of Europe. In line with the verse just quoted is a poem called "Song."
SONG
Oh! To be a flower Nodding in the sun, Bending, then upspringing As the breezes run; Holding up A scent-brimmed cup, Full of Summer fragrance to the Summer sun.
Oh! To be a butterfly Still, upon a flower, Winking with its painted wings. Happy in the hour. Blossoms hold Mines of Gold Deep within the farthest heart of each chaliced flower.

Oh! To be a cloud Blowing through the blue, Shadowing the mountains, Rushing loudly through Valleys deep Where torrents keep Always their plunging thunder and their misty arch of blue.
Oh! To be a wave Splintering on the sand, Drawing back, but leaving Lingeringly the land. Rainbow light Flashes bright Telling tales of coral caves half hid in yellow sand.
Soon they die, the flowers; Insects live a day; Clouds dissolve in showers; Only waves at play Last forever. Shall endeavor Make a sea of purpose mightier than we dream today?
"The Green Bowl" is another example of Miss Lowell's unique style and is equally characteristic.
THE GREEN BOWL
This little bowl is like a mossy pool In a Spring wood, where dogtooth violets grow, Nodding in chequered sunshine of the trees; A quiet place, still, with the sound of birds, Where, though unseen, is heard the endless song And murmur of the never-resting sea.
'Twas winter, Roger, when you made this cup, But coming Spring guided your eager hand, And round the edge you fashioned young green leaves. A proper chalice made to hold the shy And little flowers of the woods. And here They will forget their sad uprooting, lost In pleasure that the circle of bright leaves Should be their setting; once more they will dream They hear winds wandering through lofty trees And see the sun smiling between the leaves.
Miss Lowell passed away at her home at Sevenels Brookline, Massachusetts, May 12, 1925. Her body was cremated and buried in Mt. Auburn cemetery where James Russell Lowell and Henry W. Longfellow are buried. Many poets have paid tribute to Miss Lowell since her death. We include one tribute of recent date written by Countee Cullen:
She leans across a golden table, Confronts God with an eye Still puzzled by the standard label All flesh bears: Made to die! And questions him?if he is able To reassure her why.
Questions and Problems
1. Name a prominent person from the Cabot family, and one from the Adams family of our time. (If the names of these people do not occur to you after a reasonable amount of thought, let the question go unanswered.)
2. Do you think Miss Lowell's poems written for children would appeal to children? If so, why? You may experiment by reading the poem "Trout" to a boy who likes to fish and see how he responds.
3. Select the words that suggest color in the poem entitled "Fragment."
4. Interpret the line "With storied meaning for religion's sake."
5. Explain how a butterfly can wink with painted wings, and how a blossom can hold mines of gold.
6. It has been said frequently of Alfred Tennyson, that he is very fond of the sea and the moon. Do you find evidence in Amy Lowell's poems that she, too, is fond of the sea and moon?
7. Explain the line "Make a sea of purpose mightier than we dream today."
8. Read to the class Annie Pike's poem to Amy Lowell's Keats, published in the magazine.
Two of the best books we can recommend to our literary class leaders are "Modern American Poetry," by Louis Untermeyer, published by Harcourt, Brace & Co., New York; and "New Voices," by Marguerite Wilkinson, published by the MacMillan Co., New York.

LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in June)
INTELLECTUAL PROBLEMS OF CHILDHOOD
This and three following lessons will deal with intellectual or mental problems of childhood. It is the purpose of this introduction to outline the developments made by psychologists in the analysis and measurement of intellectual powers. This second division of our text, which has the title "Intellectual Problems" limits the discussion to the nature of intelligence. It does not attempt to discuss mental upsets or emotional strains that lead to mental diseases. The problems presented will be ones dealing with native capacity, inherent powers, special abilities or disabilities?and not with problems of the pathological or "sick" mind.
Individuals are not all born with the same abilities. Some persons have a natural brilliance or genius. Others have ability to do ordinary things and manage to live fairly comfortably. Still others are dull and backward, and find the burden of earning a living or caring for a family overwhelming, others are so handicapped that they never learn such simple performances as walking, talking and eating. Intelligence varies from genius to actual mental deficiency.
During the last twenty years there has been considerable study of the nature of intelligence. Psychologists have devised certain tests by which intelligence is measured. The standard test is known as Terman's revision of the BinetSimon test. This test is a series of problems arranged according to their difficulty, a six-year child should be able to perform the problems at the six-year level. A sixteen-year individual should be able to do all the tests on the sixteen-year scale. The tests are designed to measure native ability?not knowledge gained by education. If an individual at sixteen years of age can do only the tests at the eight-year level, he is measured fifty per cent. The psychologists express this relation between the real age and the mental age as Intelligence Quotient. (I. Q.) The person who measures the same mental age as his real or chronological age has an (I. Q.) of 100. The psychologists classify individuals according to their I. Q. The table generally accepted is as follows:
Values Ascribed to the I. Q.
Below 25?idiot. 25-50?imbecile. 50-70?moron. 70-80?borderline of mental deficiency. 80-90?dullness. 90-110?normal (average mentality). 110-120?superior. 120-140?very superior. 140 and above, "near" genius or genius.
Individuals whose I. Q. is found to be below seventy are considered below normal intelligence. The two lowest classifications, the "idiot" and "imbecile" usually require custodial care. While there is no institution for this group in our state, a limited number are cared for in a colony at the State Mental Hospital. At present there are facilities for about ninety, which is entirely inadequate for the needs of the state. Only the most helpless are admitted at present.
The groups classified as "morons" present a different type of problem. They often can do routine or mechanical performances very efficiently. Under supervision, they can make a fair social adjustment. They frequently get into difficulties, just as a child of eight or nine would, if he had to assume the responsibilities of a grown man or woman.
Perhaps the most depressing aspect of the problem of mental deficiency is the fact that heredity plays an important part in a person's native ability. Some studies have been made of delinquent and dependent families through several generations. From the material gathered, it was shown that the lack of intelligence recurred generation after generation. Likewise, normal and brilliant persons were found to have normal and brilliant offsprings. Because there are a number of strains in any one individual, it cannot be predicted whether his offspring will be inferior or superior to himself. But as a general rule, bright, normal or backward persons each reproduce its own kind.
One of the more encouraging contributions of psychologists, in their studies of intelligence, is the recognition of individual differences. Two children of the same age who measure exactly the same mental age, may have entirely different endowments. One may be especially quick at arithmetical reasoning, for instance, and fail in the association or memory tests. The other child may have no arithmetical ability but may excel in other tests. The mental age, or I. Q., alone is not a complete index to the individual's intelligence.

An analysis of the range of the levels by years that he accomplishes as well as the types of tests at which he succeeds, must be noted in order to understand his mental make-up. In the instance of the two ten-year-old boys whose scores are listed on page 78, the difference in their types of intelligence is shown. Both have a mental age of ten years, so they both have an I. Q. of 100. The first boy X, performs all the tests at the eight-year level, and part of tests at the nine, ten, twelve and fourteen-year level. Adding the extra score (or months) that he gained above the eight-year tests, which he scored perfectly (therefore called his basal age), he made a final score of ten years. The second boy Y, could not score a perfect test above the six-year level, (his basal age) but he succeeded in some of the tests on the fourteen and even eighteen year standard. His total score, too, was ten years, but his abilities are different from those of the other boy. The Boy X, is better balanced and has good general capacity. The other boy Y, has not the general capacity of X but he has some special gift or abilities.
The discovery of an individual's special abilities is an important factor in education and training. There are children who have no ability and no interest in academic training. To them the formal work of the school-room is tedious and meaningless. These same children may be excellent mechanics, draftsmen, musicians, or artists; and, given an opportunity to develop their potentials, they become interested and happy. It is considered wise by psychologists to emphasize the individual's special aptitudes. If arithmetic is the most difficult of all the subjects to a child, it should not be the subject that is given all the attention. Perhaps it should be given the least. The time spent at profitless drill, might better be employed in developing some talent with which the child is endowed.
Formal education, as a mental discipline or training to think, is no longer accepted as sound pedagogy. Ability to reason, or remember, or to exercise good judgment cannot be acquired by training. Individuals are born either with or without certain powers. Training and education can open avenues of expression and can help the individual realize his highest possibilities; but no amount of training can make him rise above his inherent capacity. The emphasis in present day pedagogy is to offer to the individual child an opportunity for expression and development. School systems, however, do not yet have the equipment and facilities to recognize each child as an individual.
Children in many schools are looked upon as more or less uniform, all equally able to profit by the standardized curriculum. The bright boy who performs his tasks in ten minutes must mark time to keep at the same pace as the dull boy, who never can comprehend what he is asked to do. The bright boy's progress should not be unduly hampered. The dull boy should not be made miserable by a constant sense of failure. The success of a child in finding expression of his powers, determines largely his success and attitude throughout his life. If he meets only failure at tasks he cannot accomplish, and if he never is given the opportunity to feel the satisfaction of successful endeavor, his whole life's outlook and attitude will be colored by his unpleasant school experiences. The degree of understanding and care and guidance given the child in developing his possibilities decides how useful and successful his adult life will be.
Reference: Intellectual Problems, page 69 to 83?Challenge of Childhood, by Dr. Ira S. Wile.
Questions and Problems
1. What is meant by intelligence?
2. What is a mental test? What is meant by I. Q.?
3. Why should the lowest grades of mentally deficient be given permanent custodial care?
4. What is meant by individual differences?
5. Explain the difference in the two boys' mental makeup.
6. What provision should schools make for the exceptionally bright pupil? What provision for the child who is backward at formal school work?
7. Why should each individual be helped to discover his special abilities? Why is it important to discover these abilities in a child? 
When you Come to | Salt Lake COME. IN and let us TELL YOU all about it.