Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman CIVIC IMPROVEMENT Big Horn Stake. For many years the people in the Big Horn stake thought their soil not adapted to flower culture, consequently there was little or no incentive to plant flowers and shrubs. A few women, courageous enough to challenge these untoward conditions, tried some hardy varieties and were delighted with their success. With this evidence of achievement at hand, the Relief Society stake board used flower culture as a teacher's topic, in order to encourage the women to beautify their homes, suggesting that a feature of the summer conference be a flower exhibition. At the convention which was held last August, in the Lovell West ward chapel, a beautiful commodious building, flowers were placed on display from practically every ward in the stake. Tubs, huge pails and boxes, the receptacles of the flowers, were made resplendent with gorgeous zinnias, dahlias and cosmos. Large fragrant sweet peas, of vivid colors, and phlox in pastel shades with marigolds as large as breakfast plates made bright the scene. Roses and pansies and flowers of other varieties completed an exhibition of a truly surprizing nature. But what was even more Pee ane than the exhibition, 
 was the improved condition of the town. Almost every yard was a blaze of color, making attractive and beautiful the simplest homes. Logan and Cache Stakes. Early last spring the Beautification committee of the Chamber of Commerce of Logan asked the Relief Societies. Of the Logan and Cache stakes to sponsor an organization for civic improvement. As a result an organization was effected with the following officers; chairman, secretary, and a publicity committee, consisting of four sub-committees to act on survey, information, flower shows and devices. A committee of three was appointed in each ward Relief Society with a Relief Society board member as chairman. The duty of the committee on information was to furnish information on plants in their season, care of bulbs, lawns, eradication of weeds, etc. This information, and general articles on beautification were furnished the local paper by the committee on publicity. The committee on devices suggested ways and means of sustaining public interest. The committee on survey kept informed on conditions of homes and public grounds. Monthly meetings of the committees were held, presided over by the general chairman. Monthly flower shows were held to stimulate an interest in the work. Every Relief Society member pledged herself to keep her front lawn and walks clean to the middle of the street, also to raise a flower garden. This pledge was quite generally lived up to. In September the Second ward, at their work and business meeting, had a flower show as a climax to their Summer's work and the beginning of the Fall work. Seventy-five vases of flowers were brought by Relief Society women of that ward, who had raised them in their own gardens. The display was arranged beautifully, and surpassed any show that had been held. A short program was given and refreshments served. Every Relief Society woman feels that another year will be more successful in the campaign for cleaner grounds and more flowers. The last two summers many of the Logan women have had the opportunity of taking courses at the U. A. C. Summer school on nutrition and diet, under Dr. McCollum of the Johns Hopkin's University, also under Miss Alma Binzel, on child training. This has been a great help to the mothers, together with the health center, in developing sturdy and healthful children. The health center is open the first Wednesday every other month, and then the month between a round table discussion is held with the mothers on matter taken from Hygeia, a journal of individual and community health, published by the American Medical Association. The reaction from this work is very encouraging and gives promise of being decidedly helpful in the promotion of community health. Malad Stake. When Mrs. Ella J. Richards, formerly of Salt Lake City, and now president of the Relief Society of the Malad stake, went to live in Malad, six years ago last June, she suggested to the women of the community that they all join forces and - clean up and beautify the town. Accordingly the work began the following autumn with Mrs. Richards in charge. The chairman canvassed the business district and obtained eighty dollars. She then went to the public school and asked the principal to organize some "Clean-up Squads," which was done immediately. The one gathering the largest pile of tin cans received ten dollars, and the one gathering the largest pile of weeds received ten dollars. The prizes were then graded according to the amount of refuse gathered. This encouraged the children and they worked like beavers. The Mayor of the town came to the assistance of the women by sending teams to remove the rubbish from the streets. The following season the committee advertised a Flower Fair and offered prizes for the best house plants as well as cut flowers. They arranged four tables the length of the amusement hall and the wonderful display was a great surprise to the people of Malad. The committee offered a prize for the residence having the most attractive surrroundings, and for the street having the fewest weeds. The Mayor of the village was asked to donate a silver cup for the first prize. He did this very willingly. The committee secured the services of Mr. Emile Hanson, of the Utah Agricultural College, to go to Malad and judge the flowers and inspect the town, and he did some very helpful work for the community. Many changes have occurred in the community since the Civic Committee commenced its work. Four flower fairs have been held inall, the town has its first garbage cans, fly campaigns have been conducted, and the first children's playground has been started. It is the intention of the committee to try to get a large window on Main street in which to display the tulips and different flowers when they are at their best. It is interesting to note that Mrs. Richard's own home won the cup last year for the residence having the most attractive surroundings. 
 HOME HYGIENE AND CARE OF SICK Through the courtesy of the Salt Lake county chapter of the Red Cross, and under the supervision of the Civic Center in Salt Lake City, a series of courses are being given at the Center in Hygiene and Home Care of the Sick. The course consists of sixteen lessons given semi-weekly, and the tuition is $3 which includes the text book. A Red Cross certificate is given for the work. Many Relief Society women in the city and county are availing themselves of this excellent training which prepares them to care for the sick in their homes. Mrs. Wm. C. Howe, a graduate nurse with long years of experience and special training, is the instructor. Jordan Stake. Due to the long distance from Jordan stake to Salt Lake City, special arrangements were made for the course to be given at Sandy. Forty-one registered for the work and the class represented eight of the Jordan stake wards. So successful was the class and so interested are the women in this locality, that a second course is being arranged for with twenty already registered. Several who took the work would like to go on and study nursing professionally. At the close of the class a social was held, during which a number of the members expressed appreciation for the excellent instructions given by the teacher. Light refreshments were served. Oquirrh Stake. Oquirrh stake was also favored with a course, which was given locally at Magna. The class was held in the new ward chapel. There were twenty members enrolled for the work, all of whom were Relief Society women. Three of these women were forced to drop out on account of sickness. The other seventeen will receive certificates. All were well pleased with the course, and feel that they gained a great deal through having attended. Juarez Stake. A very successful conference and teachers' convention was held in Juarez stake in February, the teachers' department following the outline presented at the last group convention. The Dublan and Chihuahua wards have recently held successful bazaars for social as well as financial purposes. 'The ward presidents are cooperating closely with the bishops in their welfare work. The wards are all carrying out a program in maternity and child welfare work. NOTES FROMTHE FIELD 205 Shelley Stake. The Shelley First ward has made an excellent record in obtaining subscriptions to the Magazine, for 1926, securing 103%. Congratulations to Shelley First ward. Tintic Stake. The Tintic stake Relief Society held an annual social and teachers' convention, December 4, 1925, in the recreation hall, Eureka, at which time three one-act plays, and three select readings and musical selections were given. All wards in the stake participated. At the close of the program, luncheon was served to about two hundred people. Me Beaver Stake. Health conferences are being held under the direction of the stake Relief Society officers. Early in September a large number of Relief Society workers participated in a stake temple excursion to St. George. One of the larger Societies donated $700 toward the erection of a new ward chapel recently completed, and also purchased a new piano for the Relief Society hall. In this Society a contest is now going on among the district teachers. The scoring points are: regular attendance at Relief Society meetings, at stake union meetings, and sacramental meetings; visiting districts monthly; and the use of the teachers' topics. The winning division will be' entertained by the divisions losing out. As a result the attendance at all meetings has greatly increased and visits of teachers is 100%, and a much better preparation is made on the teachers' topics. One of the other large Societies recently presented a pageant: Grandmother's Dream, from Infancy to Old Age; also a play representing the sons and daughters, the fathers and mothers, the grandfathers and grandmothers, the great grandfathers and great grandmothers, in which the members represented all the characters. The presentation was so highly appreciated that it had to be repeated, and in the two entertainments the Society netted about $160. In one of the small wards the women of the Relief Society had three swimming parties with the Bee-Hive girls during the summer. Most of the Societies have held bazaars which have been very successful in raising funds. At Christmas time each missionary in the field is remembered with $5 or more from the ward Relief Society. Much good was accomplished in 1925 through the various courses that were taken by two delegates during leadership week in Provo, early in the year.