[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: My Son | Author: Morgan]
[My Son Is on a Mission Agnes K. Morgan]

f the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills, and all nations shall flow unto it (Isaiah 2:2). The saints have become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains, and the gathering continues but, still obedient to the voices of the prophets, the gathering of the saints in this day is in stakes, some far removed from Church headquarters, which are designated as places of gatherings for the saints, and where the greatest blessings of the sealing power have now been made available. The Savior is the head of the Church, and his mind and will are EDITORIAL revealed to the Church members through his chosen prophets. The members must have listening ears and accept the counsel, admonitions, and warnings of the present leaders and follow them implicitly. Joel spoke of the day when the Lord said, "I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh" (Joel 2:28). The wonderful progress taking place in the Church could be in fulfillment of that prophecy. As the Church spreads over the earth, so the organization of Relief Society spreads, that it may accomplish its divine purpose among the sisters and for the blessing of the Church members generally. 'The present prophet, President David O. McKay, has declared "Every Church member a missionary." If Relief Society is to keep pace in its designated place in the Church, then members will heed this injunction, 257 will be obedient to the Priesthood in their homes, teach and train their sons and daughters, as called, to go on missions, teach righteous principles and themselves lead exemplary lives. If every Relief Society member is a missionary — by precept when called and always by example — each one will then be participating in the blessings described in holy writ as "How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace" (Isaiah 52:7). This is a glorious day in which to be permitted to live, and glorious accomplishments are expected of those who are living now. May Relief Society live up to its blessings and great opportunities in this day of phenomenal growth and expansion. —M. C. S. Music Padda M. Speller The sunset on majestic peaks Glows richer than before; Sweeter sound the mountain creeks When we have music at our core. Verdant valleys greener seeming, Birds, more graceful, swifter dart, Beauty far beyond our dreaming When we have music in our heart. With humble dignity we are shod, And to nobility inclined, Walking hand in hand with God, When we have music in our mind. In melody, and sweetly, flows Life on, and when years take their toll There is joy, contentment, and repose, When we have music in our soul. Votes. TO THE FIELD - Lesson rreviews to Appear in the June Issue Ww of The Relief Society Magazine HE previews for the 1962-63 lessons will appear in the June 1962 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and the lessons for October will be in the July 1962 issue. In order to obtain the June issue of the Magazine it will be necessary for renewals and new subscriptions to reach the General Offices by the first of May 1962. It is suggested that Magazine representatives check their lists immediately so that all Relief Society members will receive all of the issues containing the lessons. It is suggested that ward presidents make this announcement in the April meetings.