[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: A | Author: Zabriskie]
Latter-day Saint Schoolteacher in Beaver, Alaska Elizabeth Peterson Zabriskie HIS is our second Sunday in T Beaver, and in many ways it seems as if we have been here much longer. The time has been spent in varied activities, some new experiences, and others the usual routine business of getting settled. Our trip was pleasant, highlighted by meeting with friends in Fairbanks and spending an enjoyable evening talking over old times. We attended church in the new chapel, which was quite a change from the time when we held our meetings in the homes of members. We also visited our old home on the farm outside of Fairbanks and the University of Alaska, both showing some growth, but still familiar. From Fairbanks to Beaver we flew in an old B-17 loaded with freight and moose hunters. 'This was a rough flight, and before we reached Fort Yukon the boys were air sick. It got worse from Fort Yukon to Beaver, so I joined them, and when we finally arrived the plane couldn't land, so we returned to Fort Yukon and the "bush pilot" took us and a little of our luggage into Beaver. The weather was windy, wet, and chilly, but the faces of the people who met the plane were bright and smiling and we were happy to see them. The engineer who accompanied us from Fairbanks soon had the generator and fires going. He hired the school janitor who had been here last year, and he began hauling water. The boys, with their new friends, went rabbit hunting and returned shortly with three rabbits. These, with food left from the school lunch program, provided us with food. The plane returned in the evening with our bedding and the few groceries I had purchased in Fairbanks, and thus we spent the first day in our new home. The school is a large building and a landmark to every river and air pilot in this region. More than its size accounts for this fame, however, for to keep the generator working properly we must burn the lights all the time and they can be seen for miles. At night we turn lights on, instead of out. The water is hauled from the river in large barrels and left to stand so the dirt will settle, then it is pumped into a large tank for use in the school. 'The hot water tank is very small, so I must heat all water for washing and bathing. We also boil all water we drink, and even this gets pretty dark and thick toward the bottom of the jug. In fact, at first, the boys thought it was punch, but like everything else we soon got used to it and the taste really isn't bad. Our quarters are comfortably furnished except for the curtains, and these I have ordered from a catalogue. The dishes and silver are strictly G. I. We have oil heat and so far it has been warm, except for the floors, but the boys have wool socks and if I wear two pairs of anklets it is comfortable. We have Page 267 268 MUS. POST OFEE I I BEAVER POST OFFICE IN BEAVER, ALASKA RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 The author, Elizabeth P. Zabriskie, and her sons Duane and Sheldon are seen standing on the steps. Storm windows now, but Moses (the janitor) says there are more to go up before it gets cold. We have two bedrooms, a bath, living room, kitchen, and a little radio room where I send and receive all messages for the village. 'There is a guest room upstairs, and it is one of my duties to provide food and lodging for all health and welfare personnel who visit the village. Judging from the past week, we will not be lonesome, for we have had a guest nearly every night, and this week we are expecting the X-ray unic in the village. The school ls the center of all village activity, and I, the teacher, am expected to be in charge of it all. UTSIDE of teaching and entertaining guests, my duties include planning menus and organizing the hot lunch program (the mothers do the cooking), arranging for movies to be shown once a week, dispensing all drugs to the natives in the village, each day report over the radio to the hospital in 'Tanana any sickness in the village, and receive instructions as to what to do about it. Each evening I have radio contact with Fairbanks to receive any telegrams or telephone messages and to send any messages from here, and there are times when the traffic ls quite heavy, as the other night we were on the air from 8:00 P. M. To 11:25 trying to get three messages through. Another day one of the missionaries from the village was reported lost on a flight to Fairbanks, and we were on the air re ceiving messages until he was reported safe early the next morning. The village is small, consisting of A LATTER-DAY SAINT SCHOOLTEACHER IN BEAVER, ALASKA one-room log cabins, two stores, one of which is also the Post Office, two churches, the Episcopal and the Assembly of God. The village is located on the banks of the Yukon, a beautiful setting, with pine and birch trees surrounding it. From the front of our house we can see a few cabins and the river; from the back we can see the air strip, and the cemetery where the wind and weather have erased the names from most of the markers. This takes in the whole village, not much, but really a very pleasant place. It started snowing on September 27 and has snowed a little each day since, except today which is a beautiful sunny day, but the temperature was seven degrees above zero this morning, and even with the sun shining it hasn't risen much. We are waiting for the river to freeze enough for ice skating, which should be very soon, but they say the snow soon gets too deep, so there is really a very short time for skating, but we THE SCHOOLHOUSE ae tanh kaabens NR ae VS IN BEAVER, ALASKA 269 are looking forward to that little time and so is everyone in the village.