[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Fiction | Title: Grade | Author: Martineau]
Grade A" Mary C. Martineau RANDMOTHER found a theme in the wastebasket one morning, written and discarded by her grandson Joseph before he left for school. She read it, laughed merrily, and then put an "A" on it, saying to herself, "That boy is surely blessed with talent." Joseph was a kind boy who loved his grandmother very much and slept at her house every night because she was all alone and he felt sorry for her. He was her protector and her pride and joy, and she tried to be a guarantee for his success in school, waking him early, whether or no, and seeing to it that he had a bounteous breakfast, for what half-fed boy can do his best? However, on that morning when Joseph had arisen, it had not been with a song in his heart, for he had felt grumpy and he had dark thoughts. It seemed to him that no matter what, Grandmother always woke him up at 6:30. Rain or shine, she made no allowance, but prepared breakfast, urged him to hurry a little, and as a final push in the nght direction, saw him to the door and wished him a happy day. He thought on that morning, I wanted to sleep, regardless of that dumb old theme I was supposed to write last night. The night before he had gone to the basketball game after MIA and had had a great time, but in the morning, although the spirit was willing, the flesh was weak, and he hated to hear Grandmother bustling about in the kitchen. When she Page 286 finally spoke to him, with the urge for action in her voice, he arose, grabbed his pen and some theme paper and wrote the following: EARLY BIRDS I Dione you live with an early bird or are one yourself, you cannot know the agony that literally millions of people go through every blessed morning of the year. You see, I live with the most cheerful early bird in the Nation, my grandmother. In the summer her excuse is that the birds wake her up when they begin to chirp and sing. Frankly, Id take my chances with the law and get rid of those birds, but it would do no good, because she rises early in the winter, also. My full-fledged early bird sigs a little as she rattles the pans for a huge breakfast which she will force-feed into every individual she can. Maybe she plays a little on the piano, a little something sweet like "The Battle Hymn of the Republic," or something appropriate like '""he Caissons Go Rolling Along." At any rate, if you live with an early bird, you're stuck. Early birds come in assorted sizes, from the "just-hatched" to those with one wing dragging. Usually small children amid old people make the best early birds. 'The little tikes get up early so they can go and explore this wonderful new world, while the old folks want to get up early as possible to see as much as they can. But I see no excuse for otherwise reasonable adults—from teenage to fifty—getting up at the indecent hours that early birds call "the rosy light of morning." I think that modern medicine ought to invent something that either makes an eatly bird sleep in the morning or else invent something to protect others from them. GRADE "A" OSEPH had a glorious time writing the theme, _ believing every word of it as he wrote, and then went in to breakfast, gloating in his soul as he slipped it into his loose-leaf notebook. My, what a breakfast Grandmother had fixed for him. 'There was juice, cereal and cream, an omelet, and then toast and peaches. What a grandmother she was! He looked at her, smiling at him across the 287 all ready to go—especially with that theme written? Another "A" for me, he thought, and then Grandmother followed him to the door and said, "Happy day, Joseph." He stopped short; that was too much. What a heel I am, he thought. He ran back to his room, dumped the theme into the wastebasket, and then with "A happy day, Grandmother," he walked down the table. Wasn't it wonderful to find sidewalk singing, "Oh, what a himself bright and early and_ beautiful morning."