[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: From My Window | Author: Evalyn Sandberg,]
From  My  Window 
Eva/yn  Sandberg 
This  moon-drenched  night 
The  sturdy  oaks  along  our  quiet  lane 
Repeat  themselves  in  patterned  light 
Upon  a  darkened  pane. 
Affirm  to  me. 
With  whispered  strength  in  solid  presence  here, 
That  in  the  dark  tranquility 
A  loving  God  is  near. 
Page  280

Keep  Your  End  of  the  Handle  Up 
Olive  Sharp 
THIS  was  an  old  saying  of  my  Father,  ''Keep  your  end  of  the  handle  up.  You  are  here, 
the  same  as  I,  and  it  is  your  duty  to  do  your  share  to  help  keep  this  old  world 
right  side  up," 
Father  was  very  strict  with  us  children,  and  he  saw  that  we  learned  to  work  when 
young,  and  he  would  say,  "Learn  to  work  when  you  are  young,  and  you  will  always 
like  it,  and  if  you  will  do  that,  many  interesting  things  and  worthwhile  projects  will  come 
into  your  life  so  that,  at  times,  you  will  wish  you  had  two  pairs  of  hands  instead  of  one." 
The  Lord  has  said  that  if  we  will  work  in  his  vineyard,  he  will  bless  us  with  a 
mighty  blessing. 
Everyone  who  knows  this  promise  should  be  glad  to  work  in  his  vineyard.  The 
Lord  also  said  if  we  would  pay  one  tenth  of  our  income  to  the  work  of  the  Lord,  the 
gates  of  heaven  would  be  opened  and  we  would  be  showered  with  blessings. 
I  wonder  why  so  many  people  who  know,  or  should  know,  do  not  keep  these 
wonderful  commandments.    I  feel  sure  they  have  not  been  taught  them  when  young. 
''As  the  twig  is  bent,  so  the  tree  will  grow,"  and  no  greater  joy  can  come  to  a 
mother  or  father  than  to  have  their  sons  and  daughters  grow  up  to  be  fine,  respected, 
honored,  reliable  men  and  women,  doing  their  share  to  bring  peace  and  happiness  into 
this  troubled  world  of  ours. 
I  happened  to  hear  two  young  ladies,  sisters  they  were,  talking  about  paying  tithing: 
and  wondering  if  they  did  pay  tithing  if  their  paths  would  be  a  bit  smoother.  Last 
spring  I  met  one  of  them  and  asked  her  if  paying  tithing  had  helped  her.  She  replied, 
"It  certainly  has.  My  husband  received  a  raise  in  his  salary  and  we  have  not  had  a 
doctor  in  our  house  for  months.  We  think  God  did  open  his  gates  and  shower  us  with 
his  blessings." 
"How  is  your  sister  getting  along?"  I  asked.  "She  can't  get  money  enough  ahead 
to  pay  tithing,  so  she  is  just  plodding  along,"  was  the  reply. 
Our  children  did  not  ask  to  come  here,  so  when  they  do  come  it  is  our  duty  to- 
give  them  good  training  for  their  future  life. 
Our  Best  Is  Needed 
Leona  Fetzer  Wintch 
'T^HESE  are  times  that  require   the  best  that  is  in   us.     We  do  not  want  to  be 
•^    "average,"  or  "common,"  or  "mediocre."     These  terms  suggest  sluggishness  and. 
drifting,  not  the  striving  and  achieving  that  are  essential  to  keep  us  free. 
Page  28U

Don  Knight 
DESIGN  OF  PALMS  AND  CLOUDS 
What  Did  You  See? 
Maude  Proctor 
THIS   morning  when   you   got 
out   of  bed   and   raised   the 
bhnd,  or  when  you  gazed  out 
of  the  window  over  the  sink  as  you 
finished  the  breakfast  dishes,  what 
did  you  see? 
If  you  are  the  average  housewife, 
with  the  cares  of  rearing  a  family 
on  your  mind,  you  will  probably 
answer,  ''Oh,  the  same  old  yard." 
And  if  it  happens  to  be  summer,  you 
might  think  with  a  sigh,  John  has 
Poae  282 
not  cut  the  lawn  yet,  and  Alan  left 
his  bike  out  again,  and  I  must  take 
care  of  the  flower  bed.  Or,  if  it  was 
winter,  your  thoughts  may  have  run, 
also  with  a  sigh,  John  will  have  to 
shovel  the  snow  off  those  walks  be- 
fore school,  and  will  Alan  ever  learn 
to  put  his  bike  away  at  night?  And 
so  into  the  day.    Worry,  worry. 
What  you  saw  was  a  panorama  of 
everyday  living  that  immediately 
translated  itself  into  work  and  re-