[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 47 | Category: Special Feature | Title: Welfare and the Relief Society | Author: Howard W. Hunter]
Welfare  and  The  Relief  Society 
Elder  Howard  W.  Hunter 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
[Address  Delivered  at  the  Annual  General  Relief  Society  Conference, 
September  28,  1961] 
THE  Church  Welfare  Plan  in 
its  present  form  and  organ- 
ization came  about  twenty- 
six  years  ago.  This  was  a  renewed 
emphasis  of  a  phase  of  the  gospel 
which  has  always  existed.  Since  the 
beginning  of  time  men  have  been 
commanded  to  be  their  brother's 
keeper,  and  God's  children  have 
always  been  expected  to  help  one 
another.  This  thread  has  been  wov- 
en through  the  loom  of  the  Old 
Testament,  the  teachings  of  the 
Master  during  his  personal  ministry, 
through  the  writings  of  the  New 
Testament,  and  throughout  the  his- 
tory of  The  Book  of  Mormon.  The 
revelations  of  these  latter  days  are 
replete  with  these  admonitions. 
Since  the  organization  of  the 
Church  in  1830,  the  history  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  has  been  influ- 
enced by  the  principles  which  have 
now  been  codified  into  the  Welfare 
Plan. 
Not  long  ago  I  was  reading  the 
words  of  Brigham  Young  spoken 
from  the  pulpit  in  the  old  Taber- 
nacle here  in  Salt  Lake  City  nearly 
one  hundred  years  ago.  This  is 
what  he  said: 
I  am  now  going  to  preach  you  a  short 
sermon  concerning  our  temporal  duties. 
My  sermon  is  to  the  poor,  and  to  those 
who  are  not  poor.  As  a  people,  we  are 
not  poor;  and  we  wish  to  say  to  the 
Bishops,  not  only  in  this  city,  but  through 
the  country,  "Bishops,  take  care  of  your 
poor."    .    .    .   We   have  among   us   some 
Page  236 
brethren  and  sisters  who  are  not  strong, 
nor  healthy,  and  they  must  be  supported. 
We  wish  to  adopt  the  most  economical 
plan  of  taking  care  of  them.  ...  In  the 
spring  have  these  brethren  sow  some 
broom-corn,  —  they  will  enjoy  working  a 
little  out  of  doors  in  the  nice  spring 
weather,  —  and  then  in  fall  they  can  make 
brooms  with  the  corn.  By  pursuing  this 
course  a  Bishop  will  soon  be  able  to  say, 
''I  have  accomplished  a  good  work;  the 
brethren  and  sisters  whom  I  had  to  help 
are  now  in  a  condition  to  help  them- 
selves." In  a  short  time,  if  their  labor 
and  time  are  wisely  employed,  you  can 
build  for  them  the  finest  house  in  the 
ward. 
Now,  Bishops,  you  have  smart  women 
for  wives,  many  of  you;  let  them  organize 
Female  Relief  Societies  in  various  wards. 
We  have  many  talented  women  among 
us,  and  we  wish  their  help  in  this  mat- 
ter. Some  may  think  this  is  a  trifling 
thing,  but  it  is  not;  and  you  will  find 
that  the  sisters  will  be  the  mainspring  of 
the  movement  (Journal  oi  Discourses, 
Vol.  12,  pp.  114-115). 
There  is  nothing  old  or  old-fash- 
ioned about  the  Welfare  Program 
The  principles  are  old,  but  the  chal- 
lenges are  new.  These  words  of 
Brigham  Young  are  as  up-to-date  as 
if  spoken  today  in  this  Tabernacle. 
There  was  an  echo  from  these  words 
of  Brigham  Young  when  President 
Heber  J.  Grant  announced  to  the 
Church  in  the  October  Conference 
in  1936,  the  establishment  of  what 
we  now  refer  to  as  the  Welfare  Pro- 
gram. He  stated  that  the  ''primary 
purpose  was  to  set  up,  in  so  far  as 
it  might  be  possible,  a  system  under

WELFARE  AND  THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
237 
which  the  curse  of  idleness  would 
be  done  away  with,  the  evils  of  a 
dole  abolished,  and  independence, 
industry,  thrift  and  self-respect  be 
once  more  established  amongst  our 
people"  (Priesthood  and  Church 
Welfare,  page  19). 
At  the  following  conference.  Presi- 
dent J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  spoke  on 
this  subject  saying: 
First,  and  above  and  beyond  everything 
else,  let  us  live  righteously,  fearing  God 
and  keeping  his  commandments,  that  we 
may  in  part  claim  his  blessings  as  of  right, 
and  not  as  of  mercy  only.  Along  this  way 
only  lies  happiness  and  salvation. 
Let  us  avoid  debt  as  we  would  avoid  a 
plague;  where  we  are  now  in  debt  let  us 
get  out  of  debt;  if  not  today,  then  to- 
morrow. 
Let  us  straitly  and  strictly  live  within 
our  incomes,  and  save  a  little. 
Let  every  head  of  every  household  see 
to  it  that  he  has  on  hand  enough  food 
and  clothing,  and  where  possible,  fuel  also, 
for  at  least  a  year  ahead.  You  of  small 
means  put  your  money  in  foodstuffs  and 
wearing  apparel,  not  in  stocks  and  bonds; 
you  of  large  means  will  think  you  know 
how  to  care  for  yourselves,  but  I  may  ven- 
ture to  suggest  that  you  do  not  speculate. 
Let  every  head  of  every  household  aim 
to  own  his  own  home,  free  from  mortgage. 
Let  every  man  who  has  a  garden  spot, 
garden  it;  every  man  who  owns  a  farm, 
farm  it.  .  .  . 
We  must  purge  our  hearts  of  the  love 
of  ease;  we  must  put  out  from  our  lives 
the  curse  of  idleness  .  .  .  (Conference 
Reports,  April  1937,  page  26). 
We  often  refer  to  the  Welfare 
work  of  the  Church.  The  word 
work  creeps  in  with  the  word  Wel- 
fare, and  the  two  seem  to  be  asso- 
ciated together.  We  know  we  must 
work  for  the  things  that  are  worth- 
while in  life,  and  if  the  Welfare 
Program  is  to  be  worthwhile  and 
succeed,  we  must  couple  work  with 
high  ideals.  Faith  without  works  is 
dead.     In  the  same  sense,  our  suc- 
cess in  our  Welfare  endeavors  can 
only  be  accomplished  by  work. 
You  who  are  in  leadership  in  the 
great  Relief  Society  organization, 
and  who  give  leadership  to  the  great 
Welfare  Program,  know  the  power 
there  is  in  banding  together  for  the 
noble  purpose  of  helping  those  in 
need. 
I  talked  to  a  man  not  long  ago 
who  works  in  a  machine  shop  fabri- 
cating a  little  electronic  element 
which  is  about  the  size  of  a  dime. 
He  told  me  that  these  were  used  in 
nearlv  all  of  the  missiles  and  rock- 
ets which  are  shot  into  space.  I 
asked  him  how  this  little  part  was 
used  in  the  operation  of  the  rocket. 
He  said:  ''I  haven't  the  least  idea. 
All  I  know  is  that  it  goes  inside  of 
the  rocket."  I  am  inclined  to  think 
that  some  of  us  are  this  way  in  the 
Welfare  Program.  We  accept  an 
assignment  to  pull  weeds,  peel  fruit, 
clean  fish,  harvest  crops,  or  some 
other  task,  but  we  do  not  see  the 
end  results  of  our  labor  as  it  fits  into 
the  great  whole  and  becomes  a  com- 
ponent part  of  the  finished  product. 
Most  of  you  sisters  have  been  in 
the  bishop's  storehouse  and  have 
seen  the  foods  and  commodities  as 
they  are  collected  from  all  parts  of 
the  Church  where  they  have  been 
produced.  You  have  seen  shelf 
after  shelf  of  items  produced  by  our 
people,  which  look  as  lovely  and  in- 
viting as  the  products  on  the  shelves 
of  the  big  supermarkets.  As  we 
look  at  this  great  assortment  of  fin- 
ished items,  we  see  more  than  cans 
and  boxes  and  packages.  We  see 
the  labor  of  hundreds  of  people  who 
have  worked  together  for  a  common 
purpose. 
When  we  realize  that  the  little 
can  we  so  lovingly  packed  with  fruit

238 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL  1962 
or  vegetables  went  on  to  take  its 
place  with  nearly  two  and  a  half 
million  other  eans  produced  in  the 
Program  last  year,  we  catch  the 
vision  of  the  vastness  of  our  efforts. 
Relief  Society  presidents  last  year 
signed  orders  on  the  storehouse  of 
the  bishops  for  a  million  quarts  of 
milk,  a  million  pounds  of  flour,  a 
million  and  a  half  pounds  of  po- 
tatoes, a  million  pounds  of  dressed 
meat,  and  large  quantities  of  all 
kinds  of  food,  clothing,  and  com- 
modities produced  bv  our  own 
hands.  Last  year  we  helped  in  some 
way  about  one  hundred  thousand 
persons.  This  is  big  business  when 
we  combine  all  of  our  sm:iller 
groups  into  the  one  great  eflrort. 
Is  it  reallv  work?  I  know  it  has 
taken  hours  and  hours  of  thought, 
preparation,  leadership,  and  encour- 
agement, in  addition  to  the  time 
spent  in  producing  the  product.  But 
there  is  the  other  side  of  the  ledger 
—  people  working  together  in  the 
vine}ard  of  the  Lord.  I  know  you 
have  come  home  tired  and  weary 
from  the  cannery  or  the  sewing 
room,  but  as  we  look  back,  haven't 
some  of  our  happiest  days  been 
those  where  we  have  worked  togeth- 
er to  be  of  service  to  someone  else? 
Haven't  we  all  been  blessed  by  our 
willingness  to  work  that  others 
might  receive?  This  is  the  spirit 
of  the  great  Welfare  Program. 
Those  of  you  who  are  Relief  Society 
presidents  have  had  the  opportunity 
of  working  with  the  bishops  and  of 
going  into  the  homes  where  there 
has  been  need  and  making  the  de- 
termination as  how  best  to  help 
those  who  are  less  fortunate.  I  know 
it  has  been  time  consuming,  taking 
you  away  from  your  own  homes  and 
taking  you  away  from  your  pleasures 
in  life,  yet  a  great  blessing  has  come 
to  you  by  administering  to  their 
needs. 
I  served  as  a  bishop  for  more  than 
six  years,  as  a  stake  president  for  ten 
years,  and  eight  years  as  a  chairman 
of  a  welfare  region.  With  the  many 
Relief  Society  presidents  and  coun- 
selors I  worked  with  during  those 
years,  I  have  never  heard  one  of 
them  complain  or  say  she  was  not 
happy  in  the  work  which  had  been 
assigned  to  her.  I  am  grateful  to 
our  sisters  for  their  support  of  the 
Priesthood.  Is  there  greater  pleas- 
ure and  joy  in  the  Welfare  Program 
than  there  is  work?  It  is  true  our 
work  benefits  others,  and  the  Lord 
has  said:  ''It  is  more  blessed  to  give 
than  to  recei\'e."  The  great  joys  in 
life  come  from  giving,  and  the  great- 
est gift  is  the  giving  of  ourselves, 
our  time  and  energy  and  efforts. 
Isn't  it  a  good  feeling  to  know  that 
our  efforts  have  resulted  in  doing 
good  for  someone  else?  When  we 
go  to  sacrament  meeting  and  realize 
there  are  people  seated  with  us  in 
the  chapel  who  are  being  helped  and 
blessed  by  reason  of  the  fact  that  we 
are  willing  to  give,  doesn't  it  all 
seem  worthwhile? 
I  have  never  been  on  a  gloomy 
welfare  project.  I  have  climbed 
trees  and  picked  lemons,  peeled 
fruit,  tended  boiler,  carried  boxes, 
unloaded  trucks,  cleaned  the  can- 
nery, and  a  thousand  and  one  other 
things,  but  the  things  I  remember 
most  are  the  laughing  and  the  sing- 
ing and  the  good  fellowship  of  peo- 
ple engaged  in  the  service  of  the 
Lord.  It  is  like  the  little  boy  who 
was  carrying  another  little  boy  on 
his  back.  ''Isn't  he  heavy?"  some- 
one asked.  The  little  fellow  an- 
swered, "No,  he's  my  brother."

WELFARE  AND  THE  RELIEF  SOCIETY 
239 
As  a  woman,  a  wife,  and  a  mother, 
and  the  keeper  of  the  home,  there 
are  so  many  things  that  you  can  do 
to  keep  in  tune  with  the  spirit  of 
this  great  program,  and  as  officers 
in  the  Rehef  Society,  it  becomes 
your  privilege  to  teach  these  prin- 
ciples to  your  sisters.  Some  of  the 
most  important  ones  might  be  sum- 
marized as  follows: 
1.  Righteous  living.  If  we  keep  the 
commandments  of  God,  he  will  bless  us 
with  spiritual  prosperity. 
2.  Every  person  self-sustaining.  Church 
members  should  sustain  themselves  to  the 
extent  of  their  ability  by  their  own  labors. 
The  Lord  has  said  we  shall  not  be  idle. 
3.  Avoid  public  relief.  We  subscribe 
to  the  principle  that  we  are  our  brother's 
keeper.  We  should  be  self-sustaining  if 
possible.  Children  should  be  taught  their 
responsibility,  where  parents  are  unable 
to  provide  for  themsehes. 
4.  Avoid  debt.  President  Clark  has 
said:  "Let  us  avoid  debt  as  we  would 
avoid  a  plague.  Where  we  are  now  in  debt 
let  us  get  out  of  debt." 
5.  I  Live  enough  food,  clothing,  and 
necessities  on  hand  to  take  care  of  any 
emergency.  We  should  be  able  to  sus- 
tain ourselves  for  at  least  one  year. 
6.  Live  within  our  income.  Families 
should  budget  their  income  so  that  desires 
are  kept  within  the  abilit\'  to  pay. 
7.  Help  provide  employment  where 
necessary.  The  Church  has  always  coun- 
seled and  recommended  that  mothers  be 
in  their  home  with  their  children  and  not 
seek  employment  outside  of  the  home. 
Women  should  not  be  unnecessarily  em- 
ployed. 
8.  Save.  Regardless  of  the  size  of  our 
income,  we  should  budget  our  affairs  that 
we   might  set  aside   some  portion.     This 
becomes  our  security  and   independence. 
9.  Strive  to  own  our  own  home.  Sta- 
bility comes  to  the  family  which  owns  its 
own  home.  We  should  stri\e  to  free  our 
home  from  mortgage  and  debt. 
10.  Gladly  accept  welfare  assignments. 
Working  together  in  the  program  brings 
the  strength  we  need  to  produce  for  those 
who  may  be  less  fortunate. 
11.  Keep  the  law  of  the  fast.  Wc  will 
be  benefited  spiritually,  and  sufficient 
means  will  be  in  the  hands  of  the  bishops 
to  take  care  of  all  the  poor. 
12.  Be  a  living  testimony.  We  should 
so  live  the  principles  of  tlie  \\'elfare  Pro- 
gram that  our  example  will  inspire  others. 
I  am  grateful  for  the  inspired 
leadership  which  has  formulated  the 
course  of  action  that  teaches  us  to 
help  those  among  us  who  need  as- 
sistance. This  is  religion  in  action. 
This  is  the  course  ordained  of  God 
from  the  very  beginning.  I  am  grate- 
ful for  the  devoted  sisters  who  stand 
with  the  Priesthood,  and  in  their 
compassionate  services  and  assis- 
tance, strengthen  the  great  cause  in 
lifting  our  brothers  and  sisters  by 
temporal  means  to  spiritual  heights. 
May  we  have  the  vision  to  clearlv 
see  the  road  ahead.  God  lives  and 
this  is  his  work.  I  bear  \\itness  that 
the  Welfare  Program  comes  to  us 
by  inspiration  and  revelation.  It  is 
part  of  living  the  gospel.  I  pray  the 
Lord's  blessings  upon  us  as  we  con- 
tinue to  serve  him  and  keep  his 
commandments,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.    Amen.

she  Knew  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
Preston  Nibley 
Assistant  Church  Historian 
Part  I  —  Emmehne  B.  Wells 
THE    PROPHET    JOSEPH    SMITH 
From  a  painting  by  Lewis  Ramsey 
ABOUT  fifty  years  ago,  there 
might  have  been  seen  an  elder- 
ly little  lady,  entering  or  leav- 
ing the  Hotel  Utah,  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  where  she  made  her  home. 
She  walked  quietly  and  slowly,  and 
usually,  in  summer,  wore  a  Paisley 
shawl  over  her  shoulders.  She  was 
Mrs.  Emmeline  B.  Wells,  General 
President  of  the  Relief  Societies  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  In  her  day  she 
had  been  a  brilliant  and  capable 
woman.  Now  she  was  well  past  her 
eightieth  year,  but  she  kept  steadily 
and  faithfully  at  her  tasks  until  her 
Page  240 
strength  was  exhausted.  I  think 
''Aunt  Em,"  as  she  was  familiarly 
known  to  her  friends,  was  just  past 
her  ninety-third  birthday  when  she 
died  in  April  1921. 
I  was  always  interested  in  our 
Church  history,  and  on  two  or  three 
occasions,  when  I  saw  ''Aunt  Em" 
sitting  alone  in  the  lobby  of  the 
Hotel  Utah,  I  went  and  sat  down 
beside  her  and  asked  her  a  few 
questions.  I  remember  that  she  told
