[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Fiction | Title: From My | Author: Johnson]
[From My Window I Watch Cleo Jones Johnson]

More than its size accounts for this fame, however, for to keep the generator working properly we must burn the lights all the time and they can be seen for miles. At night we turn lights on, instead of out. The water is hauled from the river in large barrels and left to stand so the dirt will settle, then it is pumped into a large tank for use in the school. 'The hot water tank is very small, so I must heat all water for washing and bathing. We also boil all water we drink, and even this gets pretty dark and thick toward the bottom of the jug. In fact, at first, the boys thought it was punch, but like everything else we soon got used to it and the taste really isn't bad. Our quarters are comfortably furnished except for the curtains, and these I have ordered from a catalogue. The dishes and silver are strictly G. I. We have oil heat and so far it has been warm, except for the floors, but the boys have wool socks and if I wear two pairs of anklets it is comfortable. We have Page 267 268 MUS. POST OFEE I I BEAVER POST OFFICE IN BEAVER, ALASKA RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 The author, Elizabeth P. Zabriskie, and her sons Duane and Sheldon are seen standing on the steps. Storm windows now, but Moses (the janitor) says there are more to go up before it gets cold. We have two bedrooms, a bath, living room, kitchen, and a little radio room where I send and receive all messages for the village. 'There is a guest room upstairs, and it is one of my duties to provide food and lodging for all health and welfare personnel who visit the village. Judging from the past week, we will not be lonesome, for we have had a guest nearly every night, and this week we are expecting the X-ray unic in the village. The school ls the center of all village activity, and I, the teacher, am expected to be in charge of it all. UTSIDE of teaching and entertaining guests, my duties include planning menus and organizing the hot lunch program (the mothers do the cooking), arranging for movies to be shown once a week, dispensing all drugs to the natives in the village, each day report over the radio to the hospital in 'Tanana any sickness in the village, and receive instructions as to what to do about it.