[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Lesson | Title: 256 Notes to the Field: Lesson Previews to Appear in the June Issue The Relief Society Magazine]
appeared. "You have decided to take it?" Tish cried. "Well, we can't very well refuse," Jim answered, "but there will be some remodeling necessary, and since we are lucky enough to get it at your price, we feel we can afford some changes." He had a little hammer and a tape measure and went about tapping walls and measuring. Tish looked from his departing back to Irene. "What in the world are you planning?" "Well, Mother, you didn't think we would want it just as it is, did you? Weare trying to decide what remodeling has to be done and what it would cost. I will have this partition taken out." Irene indicated the wall between the living room and what had been Hugh's study. Tish sat speechless. Presently Irene came back from inspecting the bedroom. "We'll make a family room out of that spare bedroom, and have it open onto a patio — we can easily build one there." She stopped and looked at the wall above the mantel. "I saw a painting that will fit chat space exactly. Maybe I can talk the family into giving it to me for a Christmas present. And I have some carpet in mind that will RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 harmonize with the color of the painting. Then I will have those bookshelves taken out." "Irene, have you gone mad? Those shelves were built in there, one on each side of the fireplace, to extend the mantel. The mantel alone isn't large enough for our Christmas scene, the manger and all the little people...." "And the piano will go here." Irene ignored the native's scene and pointed to a wall against which there was a large davenport. "But the piano has always been where it is now. Why move it?" "That is your piano, I mean mine." HAT night Tish woke with a moan. She had seen her beloved home being torn down, first a door, then a window, then a beam. Her cabinet of figurines, collected from all over the world, was thrown from the empty doorway. Then she noticed Hugh, standing to one side watching, and every discarded board deepened the distress in his eyes. Then the house, Hugh, debris, and all began receding — further, further. She ran and ran, but could not catch up. Fully awake now, she looked about. Yes, this was her home. That had been but a haunting dream. She was in her own home and nothing had been touched. Slipping on a robe, she went into the living room and sat in the big chair Hugh had always used. She couldn't think.