[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Fiction | Title: Housekeeper | Author: Breeze]
[Housekeeper in a Hurry Janet W. Breeze]
Housekeeper  in  a  Hurry 
Janet  W.  Breeze 
STREAMLINE  THAT  HOUSECLEANING 
A  cobbler's  apron  is  the  greatest  thing 
ever  invented,  if  used  to  its  best 
advantage.  These  aprons  may  have  three 
wonderful  pockets  which  you  would  do 
well  to  label  (i)  Upstairs,  (2)  Down- 
stairs, and  (3)  Trash,  if  you  have  a  poor 
memory.  This  can  be  done  by  sewing 
twill  tape  or  applying  iron-on  tape  to  the 
pocket  and  writing  with  an  embroidery 
pen.  As  you  pick  little  things  up  off  the 
floor  or  off  the  tops  of  tables,  drop  them 
into  the  pocket  for  later  delivery  to  theii 
proper  places. 
COBBLER'S  APRON 
A  PLASTIC  BUCKET  FOR 
STORING  CLEANING  TOOLS 
A  plastic  bucket  in  the  bathroom  for 
-^*'  keeping  soap  flakes,  cleanser,  brushes, 
sponges,  etc.,  handy  will  save  many  steps 
out  to  the  kitchen.  By  the  way,  have 
you  ever  tried  using  that  long-handled 
brush  for  scrubbing  the  tub? 
Scrubbing  the  kitchen  and  bathroom 
floors  can  be  done  much  more  neatly  and 
quickly  if  you  VACUUM  baseboards, 
corners,  and  other  hard-to-sweep  places 
first. 
Wear  old  cotton  gloves  when  cleaning 
windows  to  get  those  corners  sparkling 
bright. 
Page  278

HOUSEKEEPER  IN  A  HURRY  279 
HANG  A  SHOE  BAG 
HANG  a  shoe  bag  by  the  ironing  board  to  hold  iron-on  tape,  scissors,  needle  and 
thread,  and  other  needed  items  for  mending. 
Hang  a  shoe  bag  by  baby's  crib  to  hold  powder,  oil,  cotton-tipped  sticks,  rattles, 
extra  pins,  etc. 
A  shoe  bag  pinned  to  the  side  of  a  sick  bed  can  hold  numerous  odds  and  ends. 
CUTLERY  BOXES 
Cutlery  boxes  can  be  used  for  many  things  other  than  silverware: 
Mother  can  use  them  for  miscellaneous  items  near  the  sewing  machine,  such  as 
bobbins,  needles,  pins,  scissors,  tape  measure,  marking  chalk,  etc. 
A  teen-age  daughter  can  easily  organize  bobby  pins,  hair  rollers,  combs,  nets, 
lipstick,  etc.,  in  one  of  those  handy  boxes. 
Dad  might  like  one  in  his  desk  drawer  at  home  or  at  the  office  for  paper  clips, 
thumb  tacks,  pencils,  erasers,  elastics  and  so  on,  and  in  the  basement  for  odd  assort- 
ments of  screws,  nails,  bolts,  and  nuts. 
MY  KITCHEN,  MY  CASTLE 
T  EAVE  some  of  the  water  on  those  potatoes  you're  going  to  whip  and  add  powdered 
"L^  milk  for  a  creamy  texture. 
Store  cheese  in  a  plastic  bag  in  the  door  of  your  refrigerator  for  lasting  freshness. 
Can't  find  that  lid?  An  aluminum  pie  tin  right  side  up  fits  into  many  cooking 
pots.    The  pie  tin  can  then  be  used  for  warming  rolls  or  left-overs  at  the  same  time. 
Ammonia  in  soapy  water  will  easily  clean  the  grease  off  kitchen  walls.  Ammonia 
left  in  a  dish  overnight  in  the  oven  will  make  for  easier  cleaning  of  the  oven. 
For  quick  and  easy  cinnamon  toast,  keep  a  salt  shaker  full  of  cinnamon  and 
sugar  ready  and  waiting  at  all  times. 
INSTANT  COOKIES  WITH  A  CHILD  CHEF 
TTAVE  you  some  "Me-do-ers"  at  your  house?  Let  them  bake  cookies  with  only 
■■■  •*•  slight  supervision.  Sounds  difficult,  you  say?  Not  so  with  this  quick  and  easy 
recipe  that  delights  and  occupies  even  the  smallest  fry.  Let  your  pint-sized  cook  mix 
the  following  together  in  a  bowl  for  INSTANT  COOKIES: 
1  pkg.  instant  pudding  mix  !4   c.  salad  oil 
%   c.  biscuit  mix  i  egg 
The  dough  is  very  stiff  and  is  easy  for  CLEAN  little  hands  to  mold  and  shape 
into  cookies  about  %  -inch  thick.  No  need  to  grease  the  cookie  sheet  —  just  bake  at 
375°  for  10-12  minutes.  Yield:  About  15  cookies  (more  or  less,  depending  on  your 
cook).