[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Poem | Title: Enough]
[Enough Hazel Loomis]
thy  love.  Thanks  for  the  memory 
of  an  old  log  house. 
Enough 
Hazel  Loomis 
I  want  no  more  than  corn  to  grind  — 
Or  sheep  to  tend.  Enough,  if  by  a  scrubby  tree, 
I  sit  the  whole  day  long 
As  mother,  weaving. 
Hums  a  song. 
Enough,  to  sit  for  just  an  hour 
Beside  my  father's  hogan  fire  — 
Enraptured  artist,  color  rising  in  his  face. 
Pounding  silver 
Into  lace. 
I  need  no  pillow  for  my  head, 
A  pallet  of  clean  sand,  my  bed. 
Where  hearts  glow  warm  —  where  smoke  leaps  higher. 
Enough,  the  peace 
Of  a  hogan  fire.    
Attitud es 
Even  the  desire  to  do  our  best  brings  hope  and  the  beginning  of  gladness.     How 
rich,  then,  shall  the  harvest  be. 
—Pauline  M.  Bell

Candy  for  Your  Easter  Basket 
Caroline  L.  Naylor 
Caramels 
1  c.  milk  1  c.  white  syrup 
54   lb.  butter  vanilla 
1  c.  sugar  1  c.  chopped  nuts 
Mix  all  ingredients  together  over  low  heat,  stirring  constantly.  Bring  to  boil 
240°  F.  Remove  from  heat.  Add  vanilla  and  nut  meats.  Pour  into  buttered  pan. 
When  cold  turn  out  onto  wax  paper  and  cut  into  small  squares. 
Chocolate  Chip  Fudge 
1  tall  can  evaporated  milk  Yz  \h.  butter 
(13  fluid  ounces)  3  c.  nuts 
4/4   c.  sugar  1  tsp.  vanilla 
3  pkg.  chocolate  chips  18  oz.  marshmallows 
Boil  milk  and  sugar  mixture  ten  minutes,  stirring  constantly.  Mix  remaining 
ingredients  separately,  then  add  milk  and  sugar  mixture.  Beat  and  add  nuts.  Form 
into  rolls  or  drops. 
Divinity 
2  c.  sugar  pinch  of  salt 
Yz   c.  water  1  tbsp.  vanilla 
/4    c.  com  syrup  1  c.  nuts  and  coconut 
3  egg  whites  chopped  together 
Place  sugar,  water,  and  corn  syrup  into  a  saucepan.  Hold  above  heat  and  stir 
until  sugar  dissolves.  Place  on  heat  and  let  cook  (do  not  stir  while  cooking)  to  a  crack 
stage  260°  F.  While  it  is  cooking  beat  three  egg  whites  stiffly  and  add  a  pinch  of  salt. 
When  syrup  is  ready  slowly  pour  it  over  egg  whites,  beating  constantly,  or  better  still, 
use  electric  beater.  Beat  until  it  is  creamy  and  stands  alone,  then  add  vanilla  and 
nuts.  Spoon  out  or  turn  into  a  tin  lined  with  wax  paper.  Should  make  fifty  or  sixty 
pieces.    Add  food  coloring  if  desired. 
Page  274

Two  Recipes  for  a  Luncheon 
Ruth  L.  Jones 
Molded  Shrimp  Salad 
1  pkg.  lemon  gelatin 
1  c.  boiling  water 
Vz  c.  mayonnaise 
1  small  glass  pimento  cream  cheese 
Vz  c.  cream 
1  c.  shrimp 
3  chopped  boiled  eggs 
2  minced  green  onions 
1  tbsp.  minced  green  pepper 
Dissolve  gelatin  in  boiling  water.  Chill  until  syrupy.  Add  mixed  mayonnaise  and 
cheese.  Whip  cream  lightly  and  fold  in.  Add  remaining  ingredients  and  stir  all  into 
gelatin  mixture.  Pour  into  oiled  mold.  Chill  until  firm  and  serve  on  crisp  lettuce. 
Serves  eight. 
Fruit  Bars 
% 
c.  sifted  flour 
c.  butter 
eggs,  beaten 
c.  brown  sugar 
c.  chopped  dates 
(or  %  c.  coconut) 
1  Vz  c.  chopped  walnuts 
Ys  tsp.  baking  powder 
Vz   tsp.  vanilla 
1  tsp.  grated  lemon  rind 
2  tbsp.  lemon  juice 
%   c.  powdered  sugar 
Mix  flour  and  butter  as  for  pastry.  Sprinkle  in  baking  pan.  Bake  at  350°  ten 
minutes.  Beat  eggs.  Add  brown  sugar,  dates,  nuts,  baking  powder,  vanilla.  Spread 
over  dry  mixture.    Bake  20  minutes  more. 
Mix  rind,  juice,  and  powdered  sugar.  Spread  over  hot  mixture.  Cool.  Cut  into 
16  squares.  May  be  kept  in  refrigerator  but  not  in  freezer. 
No  Half  Loaf,  This 
Virginia  Newman 
Friendly  were  the  words  you  said, 
Tendering  the  loaf  of  bread. 
Oven  warm  and  savory; 
How  much  that  gesture  meant  to  me. 
Almost  a  stranger,  lonely  too, 
And  gladdened  by  the  sight  of  you. 
I  would  repay  you  if  I  could. 
Oh,  yes,  the  bread  was  extra  good. 
(I'd  like  the  recipe  some  day). 
But  let  me  ask  you  if  I  may. 
How  you  acquired  the  finer  art 
Of  nourishing  the  hungry  lieart? 
I  never  had  the  knack,  somehow. 
(I'd  like  that  recipe  right  now). 
Page  275

Recipes  From  a  Pioneer  Kitchen 
Anne  McCall 
PICKLED  RED  CABBAGE 
1  or  more  firm  red  cabbages,  as  desired  (shredded) 
vinegar  to  cover  cabbage 
2  tbsp.  black  peppercorns  (to  each  quart  of  vinegar) 
2  tsp.  allspice  (to  each  quart  of  vinegar.) 
salt 
Wash  cabbage  well.  Put  into  earthenware  vessel  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Cover 
and  let  stand  two  days.  Add  vinegar,  black  peppercorns,  and  allspice.  Boil  until  well 
flavored.  Cool  and  strain  off  remaining  liquid.  Place  cabbage  into  wide-mouthed  bottles 
and  fill  up  with  vinegar.    Seal  airtight.    Leave  for  one  month  before  using. 
APPLE  CHUTNEY 
lo  large  cooking  apples  (sliced)  i  tbsp.  mustard 
5  large  brown  onions  (sliced)  i  tbsp.  salt 
3  c.  stoned  raisins  i  tbsp.  pepper 
2  lbs.  brown  sugar  i  tsp.  cayenne 
3  pts.  vinegar 
Mix  and  boil  well.    Bottle,  and  seal.    Leave  for  three  months  before  using. 
In  a  Hard  Place 
T   ET  us  not  laugh  at  the  small,  scrubby  flower  living  precariously  away  from  a  flower 
garden.     It  has  had  to  fight  for  its  chance  with  weeds  and  drought.     It  may  be 
small  and  gnarled,  but  it  smiles  brightly  in  a  hard  place. 
It  is  the  hardy  one,  and  it  has  seeds  that  may  grow  tall  and  strong  and  straight, 
bringing  beauty  down  the  generations. 
Such  hardy  ones  among  people  were  the  pioneers,  who  came  to  the  hard  places 
and  made  them  beautiful  for  us,  their  children. 
— Celia  Luce 
Poge  276
