[WomansExponent | Vol4 | 1875 | December | Issue: 14 | Title: E. B. WELLS | Author: Unknown]

		E. B. WELLS

	"The keenest pangs the wretched find,
	Are rapture to the dreary void,
	The leafless desert of the mind,
	The waste of feelings unemployed."

	To know how to dispose of the faculties
God has assigned us, is one of the wisest
purposes of our lives.
	Unfortunately it is one which many peo-
ple are a long time discerning, and others
never arrive at any satisfactory conclusion.
	That God has given us almost unlimited
powers of discrimination and judgment,
that only require being brought into proper
exercise to develop our best and truest ten-
dencies, is apparent to all intelligent men
and women.
	Strange that people should possess insa-
tiate longings for something to do, to occu-
py their time, to make them feel they are
in the right channel for usefulness, and
never be able to determine for what their
peculiar capacities, gifts, or talents qualify
them.
	There are persons who possess such a de-
gree of intuition, as directs them from the
first dawning of intelligence upon their
minds, and they seem to fully comprehend
what their vocation in life should be, and
strive to make it practicable.
	Another class of individuals are brought
into circumstances which compel them
without any volition on their own part, to
occupy positions they have neither grace
nor ability to fill.
	Such persons are only entitled to the re-
spect due to their office, position or sur-
roundings. They can confer no dignity
upon the position, carry no personal influ-
ence to aid or augment their power. They
are dependent upon the place they hold, for
the respect, which every intelligent person
should win independently for themselves.
	How many young people are there in the
world, who are wearily sighing away the
hours, waiting to know their true sphere in
life, what nature has fitted them for, and
what will bring success if they enter upon
it.
	Undecided, fearful lest they should go be-
low their standard of manliness, or womanly
character; having no definite ideas, and
waiting for some interposition of Provi-
dence to develop in them what God gave
them reason and sense to determine for
themselves.
	Instead of taking hold of every day du-
ties and making circumstances bend to them,
disciplining their minds by adapting them-
selves to the work before them, they imag-
ine it is not what they consider most appro-
priate and let time go by, opportunities for
action pass, thoughts and feelings waste,
when the very elements of development, per-
haps, are within their reach, if they would
cultivate the neglected trifles which every
day presents, while they are looking afar off,
for some manifestation of future greatness,
and the real germ which should be cher-
ished and cultivated is running to waste, or
withering away in their own minds, for
very lack of exercise. These are usually
the unhappy ones, never satisfied, pining
for something which can never be attained
without exertion on their own part.
	How often do we hear the ejaculation, "If
I only knew what to do!" fortunate indeed
for such persons as these to have some one
in whom they believe to decide for them;
but how much more noble to be able to de-
cide for themselves, trusting in God to whom

[COLUMN 2]

all should earnestly pray that they may be
directed aright.
	We are all mortals and liable to make
mistakes, but even the very mistakes we
may make, may teach us useful lessons of a
severe but practical experience, which could
never have been gained by sitting down and
pining because our lot in life was cheerless
and obscure.
	We frequently hear the remark that these
women who never seem to know what they
were created for make good wives, because
they have boundless capacity for affection,
and will love, honor and obey, looking up
with feelings of reverence, and most truly
submissive to the advice and counsel of
their lord and master.
	Granting this to be true in part, that
girls who have no definite conceptions they
were created only to form a part and parcel
of another's existence, could such women
always find the one to whom they are con-
tent to yield obedience for their guiding
star, or pilot through life, they might find
things suited to their taste, but unfortunate-
ly we are not so well arranged in this
world; and oftener, perhaps, that the right
person never makes his appearance at the
right time and place to aid us, and carry
our load for us.
	Thus woman must often bear her own
burdens, without the assistance of a part-
ner, and she ought to be fully compe-
tent by every preparation possible, and
should kind fate even be so indulgent as to
accord to her a husband who will think
and act for her, she will then be doubly-
guarded, knowing she is capable of protect-
ing herself and having still another guardian
in him. But, kind reader, this is only one
view of the picture,—there are many other
shades and touches, blendings and minglings
of tints, and some of them are fearfully
dismal, and dark—but let every woman do
for herself all that is possible, in thinking
and in developing every attribute of God-
given grace and wisdom, and they can as-
suredly help the future growth and increase
of light and truth.
	Young ladies, do not content yourselves
with nonsense, see to it that you accom-
plish something creditable, which you can
look back upon with a consciousness of hav-
ing fulfilled a duty. What if it does not
seem the most pleasant; and what if others
indulge in idleness and froth? You are so
much their superior, whether the world ac-
knowledge it or not; He who understands
the motives of all hearts will not forget it
when He makes up his jewels.
	Do not bury your talent in a napkin, but
improve upon it, and you will be honored
not alone here, but hereafter.
	In the pathway of life there are thorns
and thistles, but they are necessary for the
protection of the finer and more delicate
blossoms and perfumes; only be careful to
handle them wisely, and some of the most
practical lessons may be learned from them.
	The sincerity and earnestness of your life
will be a surer passport to happiness than
any other. Those who take hold of the most
difficult labor, usually evince the most cour-
age, and develop the highest powers.
	The unhappy and unsatisfied ones are
those who never do anything but murmur
against their circumstances. By and by
the roses will fall, the violets wither, and
the winter of their hopes will come, and
then, if they have sown no good seed—all
is over; but for those who have preserved
and treasured up the good seeds of wisdom
and knowledge, seasoned with experience,
there will be a plentiful harvest of flowers
in the future.
	S. L. City, Nov. 25, 1875.


