[Vol21 | November 1934 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: Teachers' Topic]

Teachers' Topic. We hope that all the sessions of this Conference will give you very valuable help.. It is proposed that in the future we publish our lessons earlier in the season, beginning with May instead of August. This will enable you to have all the reading material before you early in the Summer. We also hope to purchase the books that are necessary for reference, and have them in order that any of the stakes may have the books for use for a limited time. I pray that the spirit of peace may be here, that our Father in Heaven will open our hearts that we may catch the fine things that will be told to us this morning, that we may have the vision to apply this knowledge in our own homes and in our own groups.
MISS EMMA BROWN
Professor of Primary Education, Brigham Young University Factors Essential to Effective Teaching My purpose today is to present a point of view relative to "Factors Essential to Effective Teaching." If we can stimulate constructive thought concerning teaching, we may accomplish much. Thinking is perhaps the most difficult thing, which any of us are called upon to do; but we must remember Socrates' admonition that "Nothing is worth doing that must not first be thought about." Certainly this is true of teaching. First then let me ask what immediately comes to your mind, what picture do you see as I ask you to visualize a situation in which teaching is taking place. I hope that you are thinking of a teacher and a learner or learners, for that, I believe, is exactly what teaching means and we may start together to consider "Factors Essential" in bringing teaching and learning about. We teach in order that learning may take place. Dr. Dewey, our outstanding philosopher of education, says: "One may as well say that someone has sold when no one has bought, as to say that someone has taught when no one has learned." If I had the inspiration and the power to impress this one truth fully and indelibly upon the minds of each of my listeners this morning to the extent that each would go out and make it a reality, it would not be necessary for me to say another word at this particular time. You would perhaps be surprised to know how many times struggling young teachers have explained their failure in fixing ideas or bringing about desirable behavior by saying, "I don't understand why he doesn't know. I told him all about it. I told him twice." Surely you have no difficulty in understanding why he doesn't know. Teaching is something more than telling or telling twice, or ten times, and it is even more than stimulating a learner to learn, and until those of us who attempt to teach realize this, believe this, and provide for it adequately, our efforts are as the proverbial "Sounding Brass and Tinkling Symbols." What then is this necessary something more? Again I ask you to do some thinking. This time think back into your own learning experiences. "Have not those things which you have learned been of such impelling purpose that they have challenged your interest to the exclusion of other things for the time being?" I am convinced that it has been so in my case. We have learned those things which claimed our interest, those things which were well within our understanding. Let us follow this a little farther and ask, "What then are the interests of these learners whom we are to teach?" Perhaps in our effort to find out we discover that their interests are miles from the course to be taught. What then is a teacher to do? Have you ever tried stimulating desirable, worthwhile interests in your learners by first making their interests your own? It is a worthwhile experience and interesting, too, for it means that a teacher must know her learners both as a group and as
individuals.
Some of you may have lived a life time as neighbor to your prospective learners and you may think it impossible to know RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE them and their interests better than you do.
Just yesterday I heard a woman say, "today for the first time I learned that June has a lovely singing voice and we have worked side by side off and on for the past six years." I wonder then, if in this new relationship, there isn't something more to learn. At least as their teacher you have a new responsibility, a responsibility which makes their cooperation and whole hearted support and sharing of responsibility necessary if you are to succeed in teaching as well and as effectively as a teacher should. By identifying one's self with the interests of the learners he becomes a respected, trusted member of the group and as such may lead the group into other worthy interests?the real purpose and functions of the course as outlined. One may say that time will not permit, that it is necessary to begin upon the course at once. Yes, begin upon the course as soon and as effectively as possible, but never lose sight of the fact that we must take into account the way that learners learn. I sometimes feel that teaching effectively is one of those things where we just must achieve the impossible, but in our saner moments we all know that effective teaching is not impossible, but that it must be thought about, prayed about, and striven for. Yes, and it is hard work, but it brings rich returns as does everything which is worthwhile.
There must surely be a place for beginning in our preparation for effective teaching and this beginning is in the type of thinking which we have just been doing?the building of a philosophy of education. The first question asked of us as we registered recently in a certain class for teacher training, with a teacher of international reputation, was: "What is your philosophy of education?
What are the educational principles to which you subscribe?" He made it perfectly clear to us that his philosophy of education was his starting point, as our individual philosophies should be our beginning. He further emphasized his belief by demonstrating that from his basic philosophy, he had constructed a set of principles clearly defined and written down in black and white, to be used as a guide and check in all of his teaching. It was from these principles that he derived his materials and subject matter of teaching which aided him in deciding the method of procedure.
Undoubtedly every member of that class of experienced people had a philosophy of education and educational principles which determined his teaching procedure, but just how definite and just how clear they were varied with individuals. It was apparent that many were not as conscious of this definite and fundamental guiding force as was desirable, but the fact that we were required to write them down made them stand out in bold relief. As one's experience and vision broadens, his principles of education may be revised.
This fall I shall make a part of my program of teacher training center around the development of a philosophy of education as usual, but I shall also emphasize the desirability and need for each individual teacher evolving from it, definite principles based upon reading, observation, and experience arrived at through generalizations.
These will serve as a guide to further teacher activity and must be written down. Principles, not facts, give us power to meet persistent problems. We must solve problems by means of generalizations or underlying ideas which have come out of rich experience. It is impossible to tell teachers just what to do in every situation except to apply basic principles. In checking the efficiency of our own teaching we ask ourselves, "Am I teaching according to my principles of teaching?"
Those fundamental principles characterized by the teaching of the Master and the homely, elemental virtues of The Man are eternal and unchanging.
Christ taught truth through precept and example and His virtues were sincerity, honesty, tolerance, understanding, etc.
These same principles and virtues are still as basic to ideal teaching as they were in His day. Our problem has been, and is, the extension and application of them to the ever changing situations in which we find ourselves. The wise, far-seeing teacher?the teacher of vision will pool her ideal and the present situation, and so achieve a something above and beyond.
Teaching at its best is a fine art in which there is possibility of infinite growth, but it must come through exercising one's powers to the full. A true teacher gives something of herself. Dr.
Bagley of Columbia University says: "More teachers fail because of the lack of teaching personality than because of any other one reason." The personal element is of immeasurable importance. He goes so far as to say that a teacher may break all of the rules and still be a good teacher, however, she would probably be a better teacher if she learned not to break the rules. The underlying principles of teaching are the same on all levels, but there is a marked difference between children and adults in the ability to use sustained attention.
This is an important fact in teaching and learning. The mind set, or attitude, of the learner has much to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE do with the amount learned as well as the ease with which it is learned.
Only a slight stimulus is needed to call up a precept for the adult, whereas the child needs a more effective form of stimulation. The age and experiences of the individual determine the ability to concentrate attention. The attitude and purpose of children and adults differ in amount, in intensity, and in kind.
Adults have acquired the power of inhibition, evaluation, and discrimination.
This makes possible the evaluating of the suggestion.
Activity is characteristic of all ages; it can be utilized equally well at all levels. The teacher's task is to stimulate that activity which will function best at a given level. The nature of the activities engaged in will differ materially, but learners at all ages learn through activities which tie back into your principles of education. It may be helpful, at this point, for me to demonstrate to you what I mean by educational principles, by giving some of those which I have drawn from my educational philosophy and written down to serve as guide in my own teaching.
Education should develop both mind and hand.
Education should provide for individual differences.
Education should be a joyous and inspirational process.
Education should raise the understanding of human nature to greater importance than merely the knowledge of subject material.
Education is an active process and should be based on the learner's need for action of the body and mind and on his natural curiosity and spirit of investigation. It should be free from unnatural restraints, should provide for freedom of body, freedom of mind, and RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE freedom of spirit.
Education should extend and remake experience, and should create a rich environment in which the native ability of each learner may blossom and fructify.
Education should develop group consciousness and social-mindedness. The learner should have abundant opportunity for creative expression.
Education should be a process of expression rather than impression. It should help the learner to know how and where to find facts he needs and to gather and formulate the required information.
This is more valuable than facts. The teacher should be a leader and a guide, not a taskmaster.