[Vol21 | November 1934 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Report on Questionnaire]

Social Service Department Emeline Y. Nebeker, Chairman
REPORT ON QUESTIONNAIRE MRS. EMMA A. EMPEY Member of General Board
In answer to the request made of the stakes to give one or more specific instances of the benefit (a) to individuals, and (b) to communities, arising from the study of the social service lessons based on the booklets of the Whitehouse Conference, 91 stakes reported. The committee has gone over the letters very carefully, and we wish it were possible to tell you all of the benefits, individual and collective, that have resulted from the study. One Relief Society president says, "I have been a student of child psychology for at least 10 years and have never received so much help from any other source as from those three little booklets." To France went a L. D. S. Missionary. He used the Whitehouse Conference booklet in his sermons and in relief society work at the suggestion of his mother. One tells of a class leader, a college graduate, who has earned a scholarship in social work in the University of Southern California, who says the urge to follow this line of study came to her because of her study of the Relief Society class work.
Another reports that the Social Service lessons have done more than could be estimated in getting mothers to continue the follow-up work after their children have been given examinations at the free clinics that are held regularly through the year which examinations do not mean very much if not followed up.
Another cited an instance of a more understanding attitude toward children's play, both at home and in the community—also by cooperating with schools in adjusting school benches to fit the children. As to the benefit to individuals, the day a lesson on defective speech was given a sister who had a young daughter was present. The daughter stuttered until it was almost impossible to make herself understood. As a result of this lesson the mother took her to the professor at the university who had this work, and through his efforts with the child she was completely cured in six months. An intelligence test shows that she had an "IQ" very much above average, and she is making remarkable progress in school at the present time.
Another small child who stuttered has become the subject of special attention in one of our stakes. Satisfactory progress is being made toward a complete cure.
Other specific cases of stuttering are attracting attention of the social service workers. One very intelligent little mother reported that her three small daughters under school age were becoming very nervous and irritable at play, also restless at night. Upon inquiring, the Relief Society discovered that their chief entertainment during the day was sewing small blocks of material together, threading tiny beads into rings and bracelets, etc., and cutting out little dolls and dresses from magazines; she was referred to the lesson on play activities. A few months later this same mother reported that her children were much improved and happier. She had supplied the larger toys and games more suitable, and also urged them out of doors in the sunshine for more hours each day as the lesson suggested.
Another instance was of a young mother with a six-year-old son and a daughter of four who had trouble getting her children to eat the right kinds of food and enough of any kind. She attended the lesson on "Eating Habits of Our Children" and was convinced that she, herself, fussed altogether too much about her children's eating. She changed her own attitude, she prepared the food as attractively as possible, placed it before the children and then talked about anything but the food. She absolutely quit coaxing them to eat and found it solved her problem. "Mrs. B had a history of excessive mothering of her children. She was never satisfied unless her children were continuously advanced in their school and church work even to a point much beyond their abilities. Although the children were above normal in intelligence, the conflicts which arose from the continuous proddings and constant pressure in the home, made serious inroads upon the health of the children. Symptoms of nervousness, lowered vitality, and irritability were very common reactions of the children. The mother could never understand the growing seriousness of her problem. Upon becoming a Ward Social Service Teacher and participating in the Stake Social Service lessons, her attitude became completely changed. The result is a happier home life, contented and healthy children, and success in almost every childhood undertaking." In two instances parents were encouraged and assisted in getting expert medical care in overcoming speech defects of their children. In another case a parent was converted to the desirability of placing a backward child in the State Training School to obtain the advantages of specialized care. At the state training school in American Fork Dr. Ramsey holds a clinic every Saturday morning. By communication arrangements can be made for consultation. One member of the Social Service class told of learning from our lessons the necessity of giving her children an allowance. She has developed the idea into a three-fold purpose. She has the children keep a written account of their spendings, heading the list with tithing. They are learning how to spend, how to pay tithing, and also a simple method of bookkeeping as well.
Another ward reports a family whose first child was very talented in music, which talent was encouraged. When the second child came along an expensive instrument was bought, but since this child was not naturally inclined to music his life was made miserable for him by parents who wished him to become a musician. Through our lessons this mother was shown that children have individual differences. The child was allowed then to quit his music lessons and was changed at once from a problem child.
There are many specific instances where improvements have been made in the sleeping habits of children. One mother said, "I am glad that my mother-in-law heard your lesson on sleep. She has cooperated with me much better since then." One ward says our class leaders say they have received the greatest individual benefit from the lesson on sleep. Another ward says the lessons have educated many mothers regarding the need: of sleep, proper diet, work and play for children.
Another says the school principal has noticed an increase in the visits of parents to schools. Also the office of the superintendent of schools reports a greater demand for speakers versed in Child Guidance since that subject became the theme of the Social Service lessons in the Relief Society, thus showing that this work is most helpful and far-reaching in scope. In one stake as a result of the lessons on playground activities a skating rink and reading room were established which solved the problem of a crowd of rowdy youngsters who were a menace to the neighborhood before that time. In one rural district the Relief Society put wash basins and towels in the school building for the use of the children. They also have the lavatories thoroughly cleaned and have instituted a method of keeping them clean.
Through the efforts of the Relief Society cooperating with the community and woman's clubs, a library has been established furnishing a librarian who entertains the pre-school children once a week in a story hour. One ward took over the public swimming pool and kept it in good condition, having a life guard there all the time; sold family tickets for the season at a very nominal cost and individual tickets at the very small sum of 5c. They did this for the sake of the children, not expecting to make money, but at the close of the season's work they had a small sum to put in the treasury.
Another ward is happy to tell us that through these lessons they instigated a recreational and elementary educational work unit which has now become a part of the educational program of that community. The Relief Society women of another ward in which was located a small park, also nearby a swimming pool, soon became conscious of the possibilities within their reach. They planned for the summer a pet show, a doll show and dancing, for which the Bishop permitted them to use the amusement hall. The Relief Society women have taken turns in going to the playground from ten a.m. To five p.m. Daily during the summer vacation. Many children have atttended and the shows, dancing and story hours were a great success. The Parent Teacher Association has cooperated with the Relief Society in this ward, and projects are now under way to place play equipment and make a permanent playground at that locality. In another ward this summer a project has been started and parts of it completed through the cooperation of the City School Board, the Chamber of Commerce and the City Commission whereby there is to be a recreation center for children supervised by proper leadership. The Relief Society women feel that the need for this center was aroused through the wonderful course of study in the Social Service department as the enthusiasm was begun through the class discussion. In one ward the Relief Society women have placed in the community a medicine kit for the relief and better protection of the health of their children. This kit contains a bed pan, hot water bottle with syringe attachments, medical dropper, clinical thermometer, sheets, pillow cases, etc., and an excellent collection of drugs and medicine suitable for emergency cases.
Another ward says that the study of the booklets have awakened the civic consciousness in the matter of getting for every child the necessary medical attention, as well as proper training at home and in school. These responsive letters teem with instances comparing favorably with those J have reported, and all, without exception, are most enthusiastic regarding the Social Service lessons based on the study of the booklets taken from the White House Conference.