[Vol21 | November 1934 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Richard R.
Lyman]

By Richard R.
Lyman of the Council of the Twelve Match, if you can, in richness of glory, honor, admiration and affection the life and labors of that modest, well-balanced Christian gentleman and man of God, President Anthony W. Ivins! The earthly career of this beloved Church leader came to a close during the early morning hours of Sunday, September 23, 1934, just one week to the day after his eighty-second birthday, when he received tributes from almost every part of the country, including a message from the President of the United States.
This industrious and incessant worker, this great business, civic and Church leader, was at his desk at his work and at his books and studies Friday as usual.
Saturday he was kept at home by his physician, but all day long he was insisting that a man could accomplish nothing lying in bed.
Then early Sunday morning his successful life of unceasing industry closed.
Some ten days earlier he went on a business trip to Nephi. Later, and the last time I saw him, he was taking the electric train for Ogden on another business trip. Thus, to the very end, his mighty brain and his unusual physical makeup struggled on vigorously, valiantly, successfully.
People from every walk of life mourned with his loved ones in their sorrow. At the funeral services the great Tabernacle was packed with an audience of genuine mourners, for he was a friend and benefactor to thousands. The great mass of flowers, the flow of eloquence, the remarkable outpouring of praise, affection and commendation all testified to the love of his friends and the esteem in which he was held by the general public. ANTHONY W. IVINS was richly endowed mentally, physically, emotionally and spiritually. He was a man of fine intellect and rare judgment. He was a most versatile man, a leader in many fields. He was a great colonizer and pioneer, a wise legislator and statesman.
Outstanding among his activities in this direction are the services he rendered in the Utah legislature and constitutional convention, also in his many official interviews with President Diaz of the Republic of Mexico. His Spanish was so perfect that even President Diaz complimented him on his knowledge of this foreign tongue. He was an officer of the law who, though brave and fearless, could by his gentle words, his honesty and frankness calm the convict, even in that atmosphere which flying bullets create, and capture his prisoner by peaceful ways. His personality had in it a special charm no one seemed able to resist. He was an orator who could hold both old and young with his simple eloquence. He was an outstanding churchman who could with power defend and advocate, even to the most learned, the doctrines and practises of his Church. He was a writer of unusual ability and clearness. In his youth he was outstanding as an actor and as an athlete. He was a man who could do things with his hands. He had all sorts of specialties and hobbies. And with it all he was a modest, unassuming and kindly individual with a great and tender heart which responded to the joys or the sorrows and disappointments of his fellowmen. No absent one in need of a friend ever went undefended if Anthony W.
Ivins was present. He lived and acted according to that powerful message in the 13th chapter of 1st Corinthians. In other words, he exercised charity for all.
This quiet, modest man loved nature; he was a part of it. He was a great hunter and fisherman. At the age of eighty, that was only two years ago, he "bagged" his last deer. I've been with him in camp. On one occasion he and I were sleeping side by side.
Expert fishermen who had been sent ahead to provide fish for our party found that the fish "would not bite." Out of the darkness of our tent and into the early morning of the following day slipped Anthony W. Ivins.
When the rest of us bestirred ourselves to make ready for breakfast, down along the creek bank and alone came this lover and understander of nature with a long string of fine trout.
Plans for a hunting and fishing trip into the Yellowstone Park country with a group of his intimate friends RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE were already completed when his final earthly call came. WHILE he was not actually born on the desert, yet practically all of the life of President Ivins was spent in the wilds or on the frontier. Few have had less opportunity to get scholastic training, that is that actual teaching that is given in the classroom, and yet because of the natural intellectual power with which nature had endowed him, he made of himself not only a wise and well-informed man but a genuine scholar. The president of the Utah State Agricultural College and its board of trustees did themselves and their institution as much honor as they did him when last June they conferred upon Anthony W.
Ivins the degree, Doctor of Laws.
Genuine education, real scholarship, is not a something put upon or put into an individual as articles might be crammed into a bag.
Real education, genuine scholarship, is a matter of growth. And while Anthony W.
Ivins did not have the opportunity of getting the formal training which schools afford, yet by the power of his fine mind he made of himself a worthy Doctor of Laws. Let me relate one experience that will explain what I mean when I say that he qualified himself for the honorary degree which the college conferred. It was in the springtime. Samuel O. Bennion, then president of the Central States Mission, was taking President Ivins, myself and some others by automobile through that fine country around Kansas City. The variety and beauty of the birds in that neighborhood brought forth the comment that in Scouting boys are required to produce a list of forty species of wild birds which have been personally observed and positively identified in the field in order to secure a merit badge in birds. PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS "Let me see," said President Ivins, "if I can name forty different kinds of birds." He began and I kept the record. And without a moment's previous thought or preparation, out of that rich store of knowledge and experience which his keen observation and marvelous memory had provided, and to the amazement of those in the party, he gave the names of birds until the number reached one hundred and thirty-five. "How on earth do you remember all of these, President Ivins? How is it possible for you thus without special notice or preparation to pass such an astonishing examination?" He answered in his quiet and modest way, "I was able to do this by remembering these birds in their various families as I have them classified in my mind."
There is the secret.
That tells how by the clearness and power of his intellect he made of himself, under extremely serious handicaps, a real scholar, a genuine Doctor of Laws.
These scholastic accomplishments were made possible by his love for reading, his fondness for study, his outstanding power of observation and his marvelous memory. The college did not make Anthony W.
Ivins a Doctor of Laws, President Ivins made himself a Doctor of Laws. All the college did was to place a label on him. President Ivins' ability to make friends was phenomenal. He not only loved all mankind but animals as well.
There is perhaps no other white man whose death would have produced so much sorrow and mourning among the Indians as did the death of this their genuinely affectionate and devoted friend. No horse ever carried him without getting from him at the end of the journey an affectionate pat and other expressions of appreciation. No cry of hunger or want or suffering ever came to this man's ears in vain. He fed the hungry and clothed the naked. He remembered the widows and the orphans in their affliction. And the words of the Savior of the world will apply to no man more appropriately than to President Ivins: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." (Matt. 25:40) PRESIDENT IVINS has said that the example of his own gentle, studious, patriotic and efficient pioneer father awakened in him a fondness for books, a love for study and work, and stirred in his soul the very highest Christian ideals and standards?a real ambition to be humble and unselfish. Mrs.
Ivins also says that the father of President Ivins had a profound influence over the life and actions of his son to the very end. The son was the father's intimate companion.
They went hunting together. The boy carried the chain while the father made his surveys. The ability of Israel Ivins can be measured in some degree by the fact that he laid out the city of St. George, and that while he was not a graduate of a medical school, he was closely associated with the leading doctors in Salt Lake City, and read, studied and practised medicine at St. George, where he cared for the poor with as much care and interest as he did for those who were well-to-do.
When death came to him, the whole community mourned. The mother of President Ivins was a good neighbor, a faithful wife, a noble pioneer mother. The Ivinses come from outstanding stock.
Members of the family must live well if they are true to family traditions. William Ivins, a cousin of Anthony W., made the race for the mayor of the city of New York some years ago. The unselfishness of the members of the Ivins family was one of the most outstanding characteristics which came to the attention of the young bride, Elizabeth Snow Ivins, when she came into that family. She says that night after night and all night long Israel Ivins sat by the bedside of his wife through a siege of pneumonia exhibiting phenomenal devotion. President Ivins himself came all the way from his home in Mexico to St. George, Utah, in order to be present at the funeral of his mother.
This is another evidence of the devotion of the members of this family to one another. The mentality, the fine balance, the broad vision, the powerful command of self and the mental caliber of President Ivins' devoted wife and life-long companion were his chief inspiration and support. To her and to her strength of character, to her high sense of duty and to her devotion to the Church and to its ideals are due many of those decisions that were made at the crucial periods of the life of Anthony W. Ivins, all of which led, as we can see clearly now, to the completion of a life that would have been less outstanding, less truly great if other courses than those he and his wife selected had been followed. Seldom, if ever, does a man do works that are outstanding unless behind him is inspiration and encouragement furnished by some good woman. Mrs.
Ivins has been the counselor, the courage-giver, the support of President Ivins in all his undertakings all his days. In that long ago when methods of travel were so slow, President Ivins was on Church and business duties and away from home as much as seven RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE months in a single year.
Only the unselfishly patriotic and devoted can toil and carry on under these conditions. Elizabeth Snow Ivins carried this her heavy load successfully and from her lips came no word of complaint. When Brigham Young sent Erastus Snow and his family to help settle St. George, the daughter, Libby, aged seven, learned her first lesson in obedience to the authorities of the Church.
Going into that desert country was a great trial. It was a burden, however, carried nobly not only by Erastus Snow but by Israel Ivins, the father of President Ivins, and by the members of both their families. Mrs.
Ivins says the journey to St.
George by ox-teams required a month and that during the first two years they lived in tents.
After that came the luxury of one-room log houses for homes.
This unselfish early life of pioneering helped to prepare President and Mrs.
Ivins for the later calls of the Church when he first went into Mexico as a missionary for a period of two years and finally when in 1895 they both with the members of their family went as colonizers into that land where they expected to make their permanent home.
Those close to the family said Mrs.
Ivins seemed to get under the load in those early days of pioneering a little more promptly and a little more willingly, if there was any difference, than did President Ivins himself. The family spirit, that determination to seek first the Kingdom of God and his righteousness, is shown also in the decision of their son Grant to go for a period of five years to Japan as a missionary, when he was called by the Church to render this service. For one in the days of his youth to give thus liberally of his time and of himself in this PRESIDENT ANTHONY W. IVINS unselfish way for the progress of the Church shows genuine Christian spirit.
Among the outstanding accomplishments of this young man during that five years, and as an evidence of his own mental power, was his translation into the Japanese language of the Articles of Faith by the late Dr. James E. Talmage. To President and Mrs.
Ivins eight other children have been born.
There are still living three able sons and five equally able daughters.
Most if not all of these are college graduates, and like all the other descendants of Erastus Snow which I have known they have excellent characters and unusual mental powers. President Ivins and family remained in Mexico for thirteen years or until he was called back to become, first, a member of the Council of the Twelve, next, the second counselor, and finally, as the crowning work of his lifetime, first counselor in the First Presidency of the Church. Thus, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you" (Matt. 6:33), is illustrated in the lives of President and Mrs. Anthony W. Ivins.
Both in their childhood, at the call of the Church, went to St.
George with pioneer parents.
During their later life, they made the necessary sacrifice, and hers if anything was the greater, to go as colonizers into a foreign country. In this land of Mexico President Ivins constructed for himself the finest house in the colonies. He produced the finest horses, the finest cattle, the finest orchard, the finest flowers, the finest garden in the community. It was he who directed the construction of the church and church school buildings, all of which tell in unmistakable terms of the sturdy quality, the breadth of view and greatness of this outstanding builder. "I defy any man," President Ivins once said, "to follow my trail from childhood and find anything I have ever built that has fallen down." And the work of his wife on the inside of the house was as remarkable as was his on the outside.
Like her own mother, Mrs.
Ivins was the keeper of a model home.
During her lifetime, Mrs.
Snow entertained in her home President Brigham Young and other General Authorities of the Church. And after the death of the mother, both in St.
George and during thirteen years as the wife of the stake president in Mexico, Elizabeth Snow Ivins, to her great credit, not only entertained in royal fashion the General Authorities that came into her neighborhood but she did this in such a pleasant and charming way as to win the lasting friendship of them all. In their Salt Lake City home, characterized by its stability, its variety of flowers and lovely lawn on the outside and by its beauty, its loveliness and its charm on the inside, President and Mrs.
Ivins have taken great joy and pride in entertaining their many friends, and have enjoyed innumerable reunions of their large, happy and successful family. Mrs.
Ivins is not nor has she ever been robust and vigorous in a physical way. She has been delicate, gentle and refined but with all this she has been a fine manager and a strong executive. She has not only required her daughters to learn to cook, dust and keep a home in first class fashion, but she has also been wise enough when new dresses, for example, were wanted, to say, "You may have all the dresses you will make for yourselves. I will buy all the material if you will do the work." Of her President Ivins has said: "No one ever has, no one ever will, no one ever can take her place."
These two were tied together by those bonds of understanding, those laws of love and nature, those binding ties of genuine respect and admiration which make a man and a woman truly one?one in thought, one in ideals, one in ideas, one in ambitions, one in understanding, so that each reflected in the other, all their days, that perfect affection and confidence that make two hearts and souls and beings perfectly and devotedly one in all things.