A Christian Revival in America By Harrison R. Merrill
"It is significant that Papini's great work is the best selling book of non fiction in America," says the Chicago Tribune, one of the largest and most influential newspapers in America. What is significant about that? One may ask. The remarkable sale of Dorothy Canfield's translation of Giovanni Papini's Life of Christ, seems to point to the fact that there has been a great revival of interest in Jesus Christ and in Christian ideals. While the sale of this one book may not be conclusive evidence of such a revival, other indications seem to substantiate the belief that there is a tremendous wave of religious enthusiasm sweeping over this country. It is seen in the remarkable growth of all churches during the last year or more, in the united front many churches are presenting to the world, and in the great movement towards week-day religious training in America.
The Latter-day Saint Church has, for many years, attempted to supplement secular education with training in religion: the same movement now appears in eastern states among other religious denominations who have sought and found co-operation with school boards to such an extent that one hour a week is taken from the schedule of secular classes, and given over entirely to the various churches. It is reported, too, that these Bible classes are attended by large numbers of enthusiastic pupils. It is said that when the day-school classes are dismissed for the religion class, the pupils march to their various church class rooms, with banners flying and with expressions of genuine joy upon their countenances. Such a thing could not have happened, or at least did not happen, ten years ago.
Educators, sociologists, and others who are thinking upon national problems, have come to the conclusion that in true Christianity alone is found principles that will save the nation and the world. Almost to a man the leaders in America have placed themselves upon record in a manner favorable to religion. Roger W. Babson, the much quoted business interpreter of America says: "The need of the hour is not more factories or materials, not more railroads or steamships, not more armies or navies, but rather more education based on the plain teachings of Jesus. The prosperity of our country depends on the motives and purposes of the people. These motives and purposes are directed in the right course only through religion.
"Religion, like every thing else of value, must be taught. It is possible to get more religion in industry and business only through the development of Christian education and leadership. With the forces of evil backed by men and money systematically organized to destroy, we must back with men and money all campaigns for Christian education.
"I insist that the safety of our sons and daughters as they go out on the streets this very night is due to the influence of the preachers rather than to the influence of the policemen and lawmakers. Yes, the safety of our nation, including all groups, depends on Christian education. Furthermore, at no time in our history has it been more greatly needed."
Recently Dr. Charles Abram Ellwood, one of the foremost sociologists of America, declared in a course of lectures given at the Brigham Young University, that a reconstruction of religion along lines laid down by Jesus of Nazareth is the crying need and almost the only hope of the world. We quote from Dr. Ellwood's words: "Our world needs adequate spiritual leadership?" "Only a Christian leadership can save our civilization from going on the rocks"?"The universities have become too much enamored of the gods of the market-place." Dr. Ellwood's book, The Reconstruction of Religion, has had a phenomenal sale, another indication that America is looking for true religion.
Undoubtedly America is standing in the morning light of a new day, religiously speaking. Never before has there been so much constructive thinking along lines of religion and spirituality. Religious forms that cannot stand the white light of publicity, and sound thinking, must sink from view. Those virile religions, capable of seeing and caring for the needs of humanity, will rise and take the leadership in the reconstruction of religion.
Opportunity is knocking at the gates of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The world is coming to Zion for the word of the Lord. The Church must be able to take the spiritual leadership of the world. While we know that Christ is at the helm, we must not forget that he works always through human agencies. The responsibility is ours. May we rise to the situation and do some constructive building upon firm foundations which have been laid during the last hundred years. We have the truth, but we must not forget that even truth is progressive; devices and ideas must change to fit the new world which greets us daily.