President Heber J. Grant Reaches Another Milestone President Amy Brown Lyman HE General Board of Relief Society, in behalf of the 115,000 members of the organization, extends greetings and good wishes to our beloved and revered president, Heber J. Grant, on his 87th birthday, on November 22. We love and honor President Grant not only for his many accomplishments and successful life and for his great service to his Church and to humanity in general, but we love and honor him also for the excellence of his personal character, for his faith in God and for his devotion _ to the Gospel of the Master, for his wise and forceful teachings and for his splendid example. Here is a man who practices what he preaches and preaches what he practices. One of the distinguishing characteristics of his personal life which especially appeals to women and which we desire especially to mention, has been his devotion to his mother during her lifetime and to her memory since her passing. He has been PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT outstanding in this respect in an age when ingratitude of children to parents is sometimes encountered. Page 653 654 The only child of his mother and left fatherless when but nine days old, little Heber Grant early manifested a devotion to her which is rare in young children and which is sometimes absent in grownup children. This appreciation of his mother and her ability, and the understanding of her problems and her responsibilities and of her confidence in him, encouraged him in his determination, even when young, to try to take the place of his father in looking after and providing for her. He always remembers with pride her refusal to have the bishop of the ward reshingle her house for her. She was able by the work of her own hand, she said, to have the leaks in the roof patched up, which repair work would last until her own son could build a new house for her.. HIS appreciation and understanding of her motherly virtues has no doubt also influenced his attitude toward the women of his own family and the women of the Church and their work, which has always been one of appreciation and chivalry. Indeed he has ever been a champion in the interest of mothers and of women in general. For the beautiful life they lived together, this widow and son, President Grant gives all praise to his mother. His tributes to her are convincing, beautiful, and touching. But whatever his training, this loved son was by nature kind, tender, and obedient, and he was blessed of the Lord with those qualities which have made him the great and good man that he is. Two people rarely live a life together so full of mutual harmony, respect, and pure love for each other as did that pioneer widow, that devoted Latter-day Saint, Rachel Ridgway Grant, and her pure-hearted, unselfish, charitable, and now distinguished son, President Heber J. Grant. She loved him with the greatest devotion and admiration. But her love and devotion to him did not exceed in the slightest degree his devotion, admiration, and love for her. Eloquent as President Grant is when preaching the Gospel that he loves as much as he loves his own life, yet he is not more eloquent then, nor when speaking upon any other subject, than when referring to the goodness, the gentleness, the faith, devotion, and self-sacrifice for the Gospel of his good and saintly mother. Hers was truly an angelic nature. But great and good as was her nature, it did not exceed the goodness, the kindness, the tenderness, the charity, the efficiency, and the understanding of her distinguished son. FOLLOWING are some very lnteresting excerpts from letters to President Grant written by his mother while he was in Japan and Europe: October 12, 1901 I am much happier that you are where you are and where the Lord wishes you to be that in going in debt and trying to get rich. My motto is, "Seek first the Kingdom of God, and all things will be added that will be for our good. I fully appreciate the love and gratitude you feel in regard to my teaching I gave you. I often live my life over in thinking how happy I was when we used to sit and sing and talk and measure tape. There would not be so many bad boys and girls if mothers would think more and teach their children the Gospel than thinking so much about their dress. I love to see children look nice and make home pleasant. I always enjoyed your bringing the boys home more than having you go away. October 19, 1901 I am pleased you are studying the scriptures. I used to talk to you and wish you to read them and get ready for a mission. I feel the experience you have had will do you good and you will find more joy and comfort in laboring to bring people to a knowledge of the true and living God than all of the riches this world could afford. _ November 17, 1904 Well, my dear boy, you will soon be forty years of age. You used to say that you thought you would not live to be older than your father was. I am truly thankful you have lived so long and wish you very many years yet and filled with usefulness. I feel I have been blessed above many mothers, to have so good a son, and live to see my wishes and prayers granted that you might live to be a faithful worker in the Kingdom of God. I felt the great responsibility resting upon me as you had no father, for the way I brought you up. November 22, 1906 I intended to write you a letter for your birthday to arrive on that day, but the time passes so fast, I thought I would write on the birthday. You have been in my mind and I have been with you in spirit, if not in person. I have been thinking of you all the day and how much we all have to be thankful for as a family and as a people. If we were all as united as we should be and lived our religion, enjoying the spirit of the Gospel the adversary would not have the power he has. I appreciate all the love and your wish to do all you can to make my last days happy. I wish all mothers had as good a son as I have.