[Vol40 | February 1953 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: The Fluorescence of the]
The  Fluorescence  of  the  Lamanites 
Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
[Address  Delivered  at  the  Annual  General  Relief  Society  Conference,  October  i,  1952] 
I    
pay  tribute  to  you,  the  mothers  not  reach  out  and  bring  into  our 
of  Israel,  and  thank  the  Lord  numbers  the  millions  of  good,  hon- 
for  you,  and  for  the  glorious  orable  people  of  the  world,  who  are 
work  that  you  are  doing  in  Zion.  searching  for  the  truth. 
I  come  to  realize  more  and  more,  The  stake  missionary  program,  as 
as  my  experience  broadens,  the  vast  now  re-org*nized,  is  under  the  di- 
influence  and  power  that  a  small  rection  of  President  Stephen  L 
minority  may  wield  in  this  world,  Richards  of  the  First  Presidency, 
in  politics,  in  religion,  in  social  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  is 
activities, ^everywhere  you  go.  A  ^^e  chairman  of  all  of  the  mission- 
small  group,  united  in  purpose,  a^y  endeavor.  There  is  a  sub-com- 
with  definite  goals,  may  greatly  in-  mittee  on  the  stake  missionary 
fluence  the  great  majorities.  work,  and  included  in  the  stake  mis- 
Sister  Spafford  mentioned  that  sionary  work  is  the  proselyting  of 
the  subject  of  my  talk  would  be  the  the  minority  groups. 
Indian  Relations  work.  I  should  This  is  not  limited  to  the  In- 
like  to  broaden  that  slightly,  and  dians,  though  in  many  of  the  stakes, 
discuss  with  you  the  minority  pro-  perhaps  half  of  the  stakes  of  Zion, 
gram.  the  Indian  program  looms  the  larg- 
Last  year  the  brethren  saw  fit  to  est  of  all  the  minority  groups.  How- 
reorganize  the  proselyting  program  ever,  we  have  far  more  Lamanite 
within  the  stakes  of  Zion.  The  First  people  speaking  the  Spanish  Ian- 
Presidency  and  the  Council  of  the  guage  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  and 
Twelve  were  brought  into  the  pro-  there  are  areas  where  the  Japanese 
gram  with  the  First  Council  of  the  are  predominant,  and  there  are 
Seventy,  and  some  additional  pres-  other  minority  groups— the  Greeks, 
tige  has  come  to  this  great  program,  the  Italians,  and  others. 
The  35,000-odd  conversions  in  the  It  is  the  purpose  of  the  stake  mis- 
past  fifteen  years  under  the  First  sionary  work  to  reach  out  and 
Council  of  the  Seventy  have  proved  proselyte,  and  bring  into  the 
the  power  of  this  work.  Church  these  many  wonderful  peo- 
I  feel  that  we  have  hardly  pie.  It  is  far  easier  for  us  to  teach 
scratched  the  surface  in  the  pros-  the  gospel  to  the  Japanese,  the  Chi- 
elyting  endeavor  in  the  stakes  of  nese,  the  Italians,  the  Greeks,  and 
Zion.  Now  that  stakes  are  scat-  the  Spanish,  here,  rather  than  to  go 
tered  from  ocean  to  ocean,  from  to  their  homeland  where  laws  and 
the  north  to  the  south,  and  we  have  competition  and  persecution  as  well 
strong  leadership  and  many  people,  as  the  language  barrier,  control  and 
there  is  no  reason  now  why  we  can-  limit  our  efforts. 
Page  76

THE  FLUORESCENCE  OF  THE  LAMANITES 
77 
In  the  stake  missionary  work  now 
is  the  work  for  the  minorities,  and 
the  work  for  the  minorities  in- 
cludes all  of  these  various  groups. 
I  should  like  to  read  at  this  junc- 
ture the  instructions  of  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church  as  sent 
to  the  presidencies  of  stakes  in 
May  of  this  year. 
In  or  near  many  stakes  of  the  Church 
are  found  groups  of  Indians,  Spanish- 
speaking  people,  Japanese,  Chinese, 
Greeks,  Armenians,  Italians,  and  others. 
Where  such  minority  groups  are  found, 
it  may  be  desirable  to  have  district  presi- 
dents supervise  the  work  among  them. 
Missionaries  who  have  returned  from 
foreign  missions,  especially  those  who 
speak  the  language  of  the  minority 
groups,  should  be  called  to  labor  in  this 
field,  and,  wherever  possible,  converts 
from  among  the  groups  themselves 
should  be  used  as  missionaries  among 
their  own  people. 
In  many  stakes  are  groups  of  Indians 
who  are  somewhat  permanently  located. 
In  others,  Indians  come  from  the  reserva- 
tions for  seasonal  employment.  Careful 
planning  should  be  made  to  prepare  for 
these  people.  Too  frequently  the  Indians 
are  about  ready  to  leave  the  area  before 
the  missionaries  are  alerted  to  the  need. 
Sometimes  missionaries  and  stake  officers 
feel  that  since  the  transients  are  going  to 
be  there  for  only  a  short  time  no  good 
will  come  of  working  with  them.  But 
many  converts  have  been  made  in  a  pe- 
riod of  a  few  days  in  the  fields,  on  the 
railroad  track,  in  the  mines,  or  on  the 
ditchbank.  Many  of  the  Indians  return- 
ing to  their  reservations  after  the  season- 
al work  take  with  them  fond  memories 
of  kindnesses  and  of  testimonies,  and  fre- 
quently complete  their  conversion  at 
home. 
The  stake  and  ward  auxiliaries,  with 
their  enlistment  committees  and  other 
facilities,  should  lend  the  fullest  possible 
assistance  and  cooperation  in  aiding  the 
stake  missionary  program.  They  should 
gather  information  on  investigators  and 
others  who  might  be  interested,  and  cause 
such  information  to  be  transmitted  to  the 
mission  presidency.  They  should,  where- 
ever  possible,  adapt  classes  to  meet  the 
needs  of  investigators  and  new  converts. 
Stake  presidencies  will  arrange  for  a 
proper  correlation  of  the  auxiliary  organ- 
ization with  the  stake  mission. 
We  no  longer  call  it  the  Indian 
Relations  Committee.  We  no  long- 
er call  it  the  Correlation  Commit- 
tee. However,  the  functions  have 
not  changed,  as  you  note  in  the 
last  two  lines:  ''Stake  presidencies 
will  arrange  for  a  proper  correla- 
tion of  the  auxiliary  organizations 
with  the  stake  mission.'' 
npHIS  means,  sisters,  no  diminu- 
tion, no  relaxing,  in  the  pro- 
gram of  carrying  the  work  to  the 
minority  groups.  It  is  merely  new 
emphasis.  It  is  the  old  program, 
but  we  are  using  the  organization 
which  we  have:  the  stake  presi- 
dency, the  stake  mission  presidency, 
the  high  councilors,  the  auxiliary 
leaders  in  the  stakes,  and  then  the 
stake  missionaries,  of  course,  under 
the  stake  mission  presidency,  all 
working  co-operatively  together  to 
take  the  gospel  to  those  who  are 
in  need  in  the  various  stakes. 
Now  the  work  in  all  of  the  stakes 
is  so  varied,  it  is  a  difficult  thing 
to  work  out  a  program  which  will 
fit  all  conditions  found.  In  the 
regular  work  in  the  stakes  the  sis- 
ters may  study  literature  and  social 
science,  as  well  as  work  day  and 
theology,  but  among  the  minorities, 
sometimes  the  work  must  be 
adapted  to  suit  the  needs  of  the 
people.  Literature,  obviously,  would 
not  fit  the  needs  of  some  of  the 
groups  who  are  less  cultured  among 
the  minorities,  and  so  substitutions