[Vol40 | February 1953 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: The Fluorescence of the Lamanites]
The  Fluorescence  of  the  Lamanites 
Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
[Address  Delivered  at  the  Annual  General  Relief  Society  Conference,  October  i,  1952] 
I    
pay  tribute  to  you,  the  mothers  not  reach  out  and  bring  into  our 
of  Israel,  and  thank  the  Lord  numbers  the  millions  of  good,  hon- 
for  you,  and  for  the  glorious  orable  people  of  the  world,  who  are 
work  that  you  are  doing  in  Zion.  searching  for  the  truth. 
I  come  to  realize  more  and  more,  The  stake  missionary  program,  as 
as  my  experience  broadens,  the  vast  now  re-org*nized,  is  under  the  di- 
influence  and  power  that  a  small  rection  of  President  Stephen  L 
minority  may  wield  in  this  world,  Richards  of  the  First  Presidency, 
in  politics,  in  religion,  in  social  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  is 
activities, ^everywhere  you  go.  A  ^^e  chairman  of  all  of  the  mission- 
small  group,  united  in  purpose,  a^y  endeavor.  There  is  a  sub-com- 
with  definite  goals,  may  greatly  in-  mittee  on  the  stake  missionary 
fluence  the  great  majorities.  work,  and  included  in  the  stake  mis- 
Sister  Spafford  mentioned  that  sionary  work  is  the  proselyting  of 
the  subject  of  my  talk  would  be  the  the  minority  groups. 
Indian  Relations  work.  I  should  This  is  not  limited  to  the  In- 
like  to  broaden  that  slightly,  and  dians,  though  in  many  of  the  stakes, 
discuss  with  you  the  minority  pro-  perhaps  half  of  the  stakes  of  Zion, 
gram.  the  Indian  program  looms  the  larg- 
Last  year  the  brethren  saw  fit  to  est  of  all  the  minority  groups.  How- 
reorganize  the  proselyting  program  ever,  we  have  far  more  Lamanite 
within  the  stakes  of  Zion.  The  First  people  speaking  the  Spanish  Ian- 
Presidency  and  the  Council  of  the  guage  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  and 
Twelve  were  brought  into  the  pro-  there  are  areas  where  the  Japanese 
gram  with  the  First  Council  of  the  are  predominant,  and  there  are 
Seventy,  and  some  additional  pres-  other  minority  groups— the  Greeks, 
tige  has  come  to  this  great  program,  the  Italians,  and  others. 
The  35,000-odd  conversions  in  the  It  is  the  purpose  of  the  stake  mis- 
past  fifteen  years  under  the  First  sionary  work  to  reach  out  and 
Council  of  the  Seventy  have  proved  proselyte,  and  bring  into  the 
the  power  of  this  work.  Church  these  many  wonderful  peo- 
I  feel  that  we  have  hardly  pie.  It  is  far  easier  for  us  to  teach 
scratched  the  surface  in  the  pros-  the  gospel  to  the  Japanese,  the  Chi- 
elyting  endeavor  in  the  stakes  of  nese,  the  Italians,  the  Greeks,  and 
Zion.  Now  that  stakes  are  scat-  the  Spanish,  here,  rather  than  to  go 
tered  from  ocean  to  ocean,  from  to  their  homeland  where  laws  and 
the  north  to  the  south,  and  we  have  competition  and  persecution  as  well 
strong  leadership  and  many  people,  as  the  language  barrier,  control  and 
there  is  no  reason  now  why  we  can-  limit  our  efforts. 
Page  76

THE  FLUORESCENCE  OF  THE  LAMANITES 
77 
In  the  stake  missionary  work  now 
is  the  work  for  the  minorities,  and 
the  work  for  the  minorities  in- 
cludes all  of  these  various  groups. 
I  should  like  to  read  at  this  junc- 
ture the  instructions  of  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church  as  sent 
to  the  presidencies  of  stakes  in 
May  of  this  year. 
In  or  near  many  stakes  of  the  Church 
are  found  groups  of  Indians,  Spanish- 
speaking  people,  Japanese,  Chinese, 
Greeks,  Armenians,  Italians,  and  others. 
Where  such  minority  groups  are  found, 
it  may  be  desirable  to  have  district  presi- 
dents supervise  the  work  among  them. 
Missionaries  who  have  returned  from 
foreign  missions,  especially  those  who 
speak  the  language  of  the  minority 
groups,  should  be  called  to  labor  in  this 
field,  and,  wherever  possible,  converts 
from  among  the  groups  themselves 
should  be  used  as  missionaries  among 
their  own  people. 
In  many  stakes  are  groups  of  Indians 
who  are  somewhat  permanently  located. 
In  others,  Indians  come  from  the  reserva- 
tions for  seasonal  employment.  Careful 
planning  should  be  made  to  prepare  for 
these  people.  Too  frequently  the  Indians 
are  about  ready  to  leave  the  area  before 
the  missionaries  are  alerted  to  the  need. 
Sometimes  missionaries  and  stake  officers 
feel  that  since  the  transients  are  going  to 
be  there  for  only  a  short  time  no  good 
will  come  of  working  with  them.  But 
many  converts  have  been  made  in  a  pe- 
riod of  a  few  days  in  the  fields,  on  the 
railroad  track,  in  the  mines,  or  on  the 
ditchbank.  Many  of  the  Indians  return- 
ing to  their  reservations  after  the  season- 
al work  take  with  them  fond  memories 
of  kindnesses  and  of  testimonies,  and  fre- 
quently complete  their  conversion  at 
home. 
The  stake  and  ward  auxiliaries,  with 
their  enlistment  committees  and  other 
facilities,  should  lend  the  fullest  possible 
assistance  and  cooperation  in  aiding  the 
stake  missionary  program.  They  should 
gather  information  on  investigators  and 
others  who  might  be  interested,  and  cause 
such  information  to  be  transmitted  to  the 
mission  presidency.  They  should,  where- 
ever  possible,  adapt  classes  to  meet  the 
needs  of  investigators  and  new  converts. 
Stake  presidencies  will  arrange  for  a 
proper  correlation  of  the  auxiliary  organ- 
ization with  the  stake  mission. 
We  no  longer  call  it  the  Indian 
Relations  Committee.  We  no  long- 
er call  it  the  Correlation  Commit- 
tee. However,  the  functions  have 
not  changed,  as  you  note  in  the 
last  two  lines:  ''Stake  presidencies 
will  arrange  for  a  proper  correla- 
tion of  the  auxiliary  organizations 
with  the  stake  mission.'' 
npHIS  means,  sisters,  no  diminu- 
tion, no  relaxing,  in  the  pro- 
gram of  carrying  the  work  to  the 
minority  groups.  It  is  merely  new 
emphasis.  It  is  the  old  program, 
but  we  are  using  the  organization 
which  we  have:  the  stake  presi- 
dency, the  stake  mission  presidency, 
the  high  councilors,  the  auxiliary 
leaders  in  the  stakes,  and  then  the 
stake  missionaries,  of  course,  under 
the  stake  mission  presidency,  all 
working  co-operatively  together  to 
take  the  gospel  to  those  who  are 
in  need  in  the  various  stakes. 
Now  the  work  in  all  of  the  stakes 
is  so  varied,  it  is  a  difficult  thing 
to  work  out  a  program  which  will 
fit  all  conditions  found.  In  the 
regular  work  in  the  stakes  the  sis- 
ters may  study  literature  and  social 
science,  as  well  as  work  day  and 
theology,  but  among  the  minorities, 
sometimes  the  work  must  be 
adapted  to  suit  the  needs  of  the 
people.  Literature,  obviously,  would 
not  fit  the  needs  of  some  of  the 
groups  who  are  less  cultured  among 
the  minorities,  and  so  substitutions

78 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY  1953 
are  made  by  wise  stake  presidencies 
and  auxiliary  leaders  in  those 
stakes. 
Now,  I  have  wondered  how  I 
could  best  stimulate  and  encourage 
you  folks  toward  the  promotion  of 
this  work,  and  it  seemed  to  me  that 
perhaps  if  I  gave  to  you  some  ex- 
amples of  work  that  has  been  done 
by  your  own  selves,  that  that  in- 
spiration might  pass  to  others  of 
you.  Being  very  intelligent  peo- 
ple, you  can  adapt  programs.  All 
you  need,  I  am  sure,  is  the  original 
vision,  a  vision  of  millions  of  good 
folks  who  need  the  gospel,  millions 
of  minority  peoples  who  have  been 
long  deprived,  and  particularly  mil- 
lions of  Lamanites,  some  sixty  mil- 
lion, who  have  the  blood  of  Lehi 
in  their  veins— these  people,  who 
have  been  so  long  deprived,  and 
who  need  the  gospel  so  much! 
CO  I  should  like  to  quote  from 
some  of  your  own  sisters  in 
some  of  your  stakes,  the  work  that 
has  been  done  in  some  of  them, 
hoping  that  you  may  catch  the 
spirit  of  it,  and  the  vision  of  it, 
and  go  back  into  your  own  stakes, 
and  under  the  direction  of  your 
stake  presidency,  find  ways  and 
means  to  bring  the  gospel  to  these 
people. 
Reno  Stake 
From  the  Reno  Stake,  Sister  Ox- 
borrow  writes: 
At  the  time  the  Relief  Society  was 
organized  three  years  ago  in  Fallon,  there 
were  no  baptized  members,  and  now 
there  are  twenty.  They  have  also  six 
non-members  who  attend  the  meetings 
regularly.  The  monthly  visits  of  the  vis- 
iting teachers  are  doing  much  to  break 
down   the   superstitions   of  these  people, 
and  in  gaining  their  confidence  and 
friendship.  Some  of  the  Indian  sisters 
are  officers,  and  attend  our  union  meet- 
ings regularly.  The  visiting  teachers  are 
being  welcomed  in  the  homes,  now, 
where,  at  first,  they  were  not.  This  has 
also  proved  an  opportunity  to  help  im- 
prove their  home  conditions.  They  are 
teaching  them  how  to  care  for  themselves 
and  their  families,  and  how  to  can  foods. 
At  our  visiting  teachers*  convention 
two  weeks  ago,  three  of  the  Indian  sis- 
ters sang  for  us.  One  of  the  Indian  sis- 
ters bore  her  testimony.  She  said  it  was 
quite  difficult  for  her  to  preach  the  gos- 
pel to  her  people  because  of  their  legends, 
but  said  that  the  gospel  seemed  to  be 
what  they  had  been  trying  to  remember. 
Union  Stake 
Sister  Lindsay  in  the  Union 
Stake  said  that  two  sisters  were 
sustained  on  the  Relief  Society 
stake  board  as  a  special  committee 
to  work  with  Indian  women  on  the 
Umatilla  Indian  Reservation. 
When  we  held  our  annual  stake  home- 
maker's  day  here  in  LeGrande,  our  In- 
dian sisters  had  a  beautiful  display.  Meet- 
ings were  held  twice  monthly,  and  attend- 
ance increased  from  three  at  first  to 
thirteen  during  the  winter.  Indian  sisters 
were  asked  what  they  would  like  to  do 
or  learn,  and  a  vote  showed  a  preference 
for  quilting.  Besides  quilting,  knitting, 
crocheting,  and  cooking  were  taught. 
Such  foods  as  corn  bread,  cocoa,  bread 
puddings,  and  sauces,  doughnuts,  and 
applesauce  were  taught,  and  a  blessing  on 
the  food  was  always  given  by  the  Indian 
women. 
They  gave  lessons  on  the  gospel,  too, 
and  hymns  were  taught. 
North  Box  Elder 
and  South  Box  Elder  Stakes 
From  Brigham  City,  Sister  Wight 
and  Sister  Knudson  report: 
In  three  years'  work  we  have  been 
able  to  reach  about  twenty  women.  At 
first  they  were  very  cold  and  reserved, 
but  now  they  accept  us  as  their  friends

THE  FLUORESCENCE  OF  THE  LAMANITES 
79 
and  helpers.  We  have  had  a  weekly 
work  meeting  during  the  three  years.  We 
have  given  them  all  the  arts  and  crafts 
taught  in  our  Relief  Societies,  including 
crocheting,  knitting,  textile  painting, 
flower  and  quilt  making.  They  have  fin- 
ished eight  lovely  quilts. 
Humboldt  Stake 
Sister  Burner,  from  Elko,  writes: 
The  Lamanites  who  have  joined  the 
Church  seem  to  be  faithful  people,  and 
we  hope  that  we  can  continue  our  labors 
with  them.  If  we  do  not,  they  will  be 
sorely  disappointed. 
One  Indian  woman  in  Wells  has  been 
baptized  and  is  a  visiting  teacher  and  a 
Primary  teacher.  She  is  very  faithful  in 
attending  to  her  duties.  A  few  days  ago 
President  Dahl  mentioned  this  sister  to 
me  and  said,  "She  is  one  of  the  finest 
teachers  in  our  whole  stake."  She  is  a 
full-blooded  Indian. 
Kanab  Stake 
Sister  Heaton  writes  from  Moc- 
casin, Arizona: 
The  care  of  their  children  and  home- 
making  are  improving.  They  make  their 
own  quilts  and  sew  and  mend.  The  Re- 
lief Society  teachers  make  a  monthly 
visit  to  each  Indian  home. 
Sevier  Stake 
Elder  Christensen,  down  in  Rich- 
field, writes  that  they  have  a  Re- 
lief Society  with  the  Indian  ladies 
alone.  The  meetings  are  effective, 
and  the  attendance  is  good;  they 
plan  a  lesson  to  present  along  with 
sewing  and  quilting.  During  the 
past  season  they  have  completed 
seventeen  quilts  and  have  six  in  the 
making. 
Snowihke  Stake 
Sister  Hendrickson  at  Snow- 
flake  reports: 
We  have  attempted  to  hold  meetings 
among  the  cucumber  pickers  of  Shum- 
way,    Taylor,    and    Snowflake.      Through 
the  efforts  of  one  of  our  sisters,  at  Flag- 
staff, an  entire  family  of  Hopi  Indians 
joined  the  Church.  I  can  see  that  they 
(the  Indian  women,  generally)  have 
made  a  few  improvements  in  cleanliness 
and  a  marvelous  advancement  in  their 
attitudes  toward  us.  One  day  a  Lutheran 
minister  walked  into  our  Relief  Society 
meeting.  As  is  often  the  case,  a  hus- 
band of  one  of  the  women  was  present. 
The  minister  proceeded  to  try  to  dis- 
credit the  Mormons,  trying  to  stir  up 
contention.  Then  this  young  Indian 
husband  stood  up  and  defended  us.  He 
said  he  was  glad  we  came  to  teach  his 
wife  good  things,  and  he  wanted  us  to 
keep  coming.  Just  that  speech  was  pay 
for  all  that  I  have  done.  The  message 
taken  into  all  the  homes  in  the  stake  for 
a  year  was,  for  this  stake,  "Do  a  kind 
act  for  an  Indian." 
San  Juan  Stake 
From  Blanding,  Sister  Hurst 
writes: 
We  have  two  Relief  Society  organiza- 
tions among  this  people,  one  for  the 
Navajos,  and  one  for  the  Utes.  We  have 
attempted  to  give  them  some  simple  les- 
sons on  health.  We  have  some  old  sew- 
ing machines,  and  with  them  we  have 
taught  the  Indian  women  to  piece  quilt 
tops.  The  Indian  women  buy  quilt  batts 
and  use  them  with  the  tops  which  they 
make,  and  the  backs  which  they  buy. 
They  have  quite  a  number  of  very  good 
serviceable  quilts  for  their  families.  Some 
of  them  are  very  good  at  making  cloth- 
ing for  their  families,  too.  This  year,  on 
her  own  initiative,  one  woman  has  bot- 
tled over  120  quarts  of  fruit,  besides  mak- 
ing some  jams  and  drying  some  apricots 
and  peaches.  One  Indian  family  planted 
and  raised  a  very  nice  garden,  and"  from 
it  gathered  a  good  deal  of  produce,  some 
of  which  is  being  dried  for  use  in  the 
winter  months  ahead.  We  are  attempt- 
ing to  teach  them  how  to  darn.  One 
thing  we  have  learned  is  that  every  one 
who  works  with  our  Lamanite  sisters 
learns  to  love  them. 
St.  George  Stake 
Sister  Dewsnup  of  St.  George, 
says: