[Vol40 | February 1953 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Mornings at Story]
—FEBRUARY 1953 "Of course. It's such a warm: day. I'll get them something at once. Do you care for them regularly?" she asked, starting for the door. | "No, just for today. Mrs. Ransome has so much to do that she can't ever take them for a walk, and they were just dying to get out. Anyway, she's too old and slow. She can't even keep them clean— all the time. They're the Welling children, you know." Andrea stopped short for a brief moment, and her cheeks colored lightly. "Oh—I didn't know," she said, turning back to look at them again. Gay stared back with great, solemn eyes. Janey decided that she couldn't have done better if she had been coached. Linda sat down primly on a footstool and smoothed her. Doll's dress. Presently Andrea came back with glasses of milk and some cookies. "I thought they might like this better than just a drink of water. Anyway, you're supposed to give company light refreshments," she said gaily. "Lovely!" cried Janey. "I'm sure they don't get cookies very often. Pll bet they've never even tasted homemade ones, like these. I suppose Mrs. Ransome does her best, but she can't do more than just keep things going. She said today that she didn't think she could stay there much longer. I guess older women don't have much patience with children." She sighed as she patted Gay's tangled curls. "T daresay it is difficult," Andrea agreed., "My mother says," Janey went on, "that Mr. Welling ought to get married again, but that he has too much pride to ask anyone, because they might think it's just to get a housekeeper. I think pride like that is a terrible thing, don't you?" "Yes—I suppose that the wrong kind of pride can cause a lot of heartache," Andrea agreed slowly. ANEY made her cookie last as Iong as possible, then remarked, "I guess we ought to be going. I thought maybe I'd take them home for supper tonight. With Mrs. Ransome going to town, there likely won't be much at their house. Mother is busy canning peas, but there's always something good and filling. We can go and see, anyway.": | She stood up and was starting for the door, when Andrea said— almost as if she were forcing herself to speak—"I could give them some supper here tonight, if you like. I'm not especially busy." "Oh, could you really!" cried Janey quickly.. "That would be wonderful. But I'd have to go home and get them some clean dresses. I'd have put them on before, but Mrs. Ransome was just through washing and they weren't dry enough to iron. I reckon Mr. _ Welling would just have a conniption if he ever found out I'd taken them away looking like this. Is it all right if-I phone him and ask him to pick them up here?" Janey held her breath. It was the most daring part of her whole plan, and she didn't know whether she had gone too far or not. Andrea bit her lip for a moment "MORNING'S AT SEVEN" 87
Mabel S. Harmer, Salt Lake City, is well known to Relief Society Magazine readers for her serial stories: "The Lotus Eater" (1937-38) and "For the Strength of the Hills" (1951), as well as for her many excellent short stories which have appeared in the Magazine since 1933. Her story "The Pink Angel" was awarded third prize in the Relief Society Short Story Contest in 1944, and her story "Eloise and the Indian" received first prize in last year's ~ contest. — Mrs. Harmer writes: 'I have a husband—Earl W. Harmer, five children and six grandchildren. I am a member of the League of Utah Writers, having recently served as state president of that organization. Also, I am a member of the National League of American Penwomen. I have written the Deseret News daily children's story for the past five years, making a total of 1500 stories. My sixth book The Youngest Soldier will shortly be published by The Deseret Book Company. I have served in a number of stake and ward Church positions, and am currently teaching the social science lesson in the Garden Park Ward Relief Society." and then said, "I'll call him. Perhaps he would like to stay for dinner, too." | "He works at the Balfour Lumber Company. I'll run for the clothes right now." She hurried down the street and took the dresses from the line. Then she left a note in the door for Mrs. Ransome, telling her that they would all be away for dinner. When she came back she found the little girls with scrubbed faces and smoothly combed hair. Janey ironed the dresses and helped put them on. "That's the way they ought to look all the time!" she exclaimed. "Aren't they just like little dolls?" "They're very sweet,' Andrea agreed with a smile. Janey helped prepare the dinner and kept the children out of the way so that they would be the least possible trouble. She declined an invitation to stay, although she would gladly have given both eye teeth and her Christmas pearls to have done so. When it was nearly six she said fervently, "It was simply super of you to offer to give this poor family a good home-cooked meal. I'm sure that they'll never forget it." She knew that she ought to go straight home, but she couldn't resist hiding behind the lilac bush until Steve Welling came. After all, the happiness of four lives was at stake, and she had to know something of how it was going to turn out. _ He drove up in his old Chev and stopped at the gate. Then he got out slowly as if it took a lot of courage. All the time Janey stood with her fingers crossed, saying, "Come on, Mr. Welling. Brighten up and leave your silly pride out there in the Chey." ' He opened the gate and seemed to smile at the creak. Must have remembered that, thought Janey. Then he walked up on the porch and rang the bell. She noticed that he didn't even have to look to see where it was. There was a tense moment be-
