[Vol40 | February 1953 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teacher]
ings regularly.  The  visiting  teachers  are 
being  welcomed  in  the  homes,  now, 
where,  at  first,  they  were  not.  This  has 
also  proved  an  opportunity  to  help  im- 
prove their  home  conditions.  They  are 
teaching  them  how  to  care  for  themselves 
and  their  families,  and  how  to  can  foods. 
At  our  visiting  teachers*  convention 
two  weeks  ago,  three  of  the  Indian  sis- 
ters sang  for  us.  One  of  the  Indian  sis- 
ters bore  her  testimony.  She  said  it  was 
quite  difficult  for  her  to  preach  the  gos- 
pel to  her  people  because  of  their  legends, 
but  said  that  the  gospel  seemed  to  be 
what  they  had  been  trying  to  remember. 
Union  Stake 
Sister  Lindsay  in  the  Union 
Stake  said  that  two  sisters  were 
sustained  on  the  Relief  Society 
stake  board  as  a  special  committee 
to  work  with  Indian  women  on  the 
Umatilla  Indian  Reservation. 
When  we  held  our  annual  stake  home- 
maker's  day  here  in  LeGrande,  our  In- 
dian sisters  had  a  beautiful  display.  Meet- 
ings were  held  twice  monthly,  and  attend- 
ance increased  from  three  at  first  to 
thirteen  during  the  winter.  Indian  sisters 
were  asked  what  they  would  like  to  do 
or  learn,  and  a  vote  showed  a  preference 
for  quilting.  Besides  quilting,  knitting, 
crocheting,  and  cooking  were  taught. 
Such  foods  as  corn  bread,  cocoa,  bread 
puddings,  and  sauces,  doughnuts,  and 
applesauce  were  taught,  and  a  blessing  on 
the  food  was  always  given  by  the  Indian 
women. 
They  gave  lessons  on  the  gospel,  too, 
and  hymns  were  taught. 
North  Box  Elder 
and  South  Box  Elder  Stakes 
From  Brigham  City,  Sister  Wight 
and  Sister  Knudson  report: 
In  three  years'  work  we  have  been 
able  to  reach  about  twenty  women.  At 
first  they  were  very  cold  and  reserved, 
but  now  they  accept  us  as  their  friends

THE  FLUORESCENCE  OF  THE  LAMANITES 
79 
and  helpers.  We  have  had  a  weekly 
work  meeting  during  the  three  years.  We 
have  given  them  all  the  arts  and  crafts 
taught  in  our  Relief  Societies,  including 
crocheting,  knitting,  textile  painting, 
flower  and  quilt  making.  They  have  fin- 
ished eight  lovely  quilts. 
Humboldt  Stake 
Sister  Burner,  from  Elko,  writes: 
The  Lamanites  who  have  joined  the 
Church  seem  to  be  faithful  people,  and 
we  hope  that  we  can  continue  our  labors 
with  them.  If  we  do  not,  they  will  be 
sorely  disappointed. 
One  Indian  woman  in  Wells  has  been 
baptized  and  is  a  visiting  teacher  and  a 
Primary  teacher.  She  is  very  faithful  in 
attending  to  her  duties.  A  few  days  ago 
President  Dahl  mentioned  this  sister  to 
me  and  said,  "She  is  one  of  the  finest 
teachers  in  our  whole  stake."  She  is  a 
full-blooded  Indian. 
Kanab  Stake 
Sister  Heaton  writes  from  Moc- 
casin, Arizona: 
The  care  of  their  children  and  home- 
making  are  improving.  They  make  their 
own  quilts  and  sew  and  mend.  The  Re- 
lief Society  teachers  make  a  monthly 
visit  to  each  Indian  home. 
Sevier  Stake 
Elder  Christensen,  down  in  Rich- 
field, writes  that  they  have  a  Re- 
lief Society  with  the  Indian  ladies 
alone.  The  meetings  are  effective, 
and  the  attendance  is  good;  they 
plan  a  lesson  to  present  along  with 
sewing  and  quilting.  During  the 
past  season  they  have  completed 
seventeen  quilts  and  have  six  in  the 
making. 
Snowihke  Stake 
Sister  Hendrickson  at  Snow- 
flake  reports:
