Standing Pat Frances C. Yost LAIR Seaton frowned at Pat, her teenage daughter. "Well, I think you could at least dry the dishes!" "Wish I could help you, Momie darling, but I just have to get to the first game." Pat gave her a peck on the cheek and in her usual gay, carefree way, ran from the house. Alone, with her hands in the dish suds, Clair made a mental rehearsal of every move Pat had made since she breezed into the house after school. Pat had thrown down her coat, scarf, books, then turned on the radio rather loudly not to miss any of the latest "pop" tunes. 'Then she had spread herself a generous slice of bread, butter, peanut butter, and jam, and sat down to read the funnies, laughing occasionally above the din of the radio rock-and-roll music. Funnies read completely, Pat had pulled out the ironing board, pressed her cheerleader outfit, then shined her shoes. 'Then she enjoyed two prolonged telephone conversations with friends with whom she had spent the day at school. By then supper was on the table, and Pat had managed not to turn her hand toward helping. Well, this isn't going to continue, Clair thought as she bent over the sink. She just isn't going to get away with it. Pat used to be a good worker around the house, and I'll just have to see that she helps more now that she's older. Since the dishes are up to me to do alone, I might as well get going, Clair sighed. Page 312 The sigh was heard in the living room, where her husband, Mel Seaton was reading the paper. Mel dropped his paper reluctantly and came into the kitchen. He put his arms around Claitr's waist, as she stood at the sink. "Whats the matter, Momie?" Mel asked. Clair wished Mel wouldn't call her "Momie," when the children weren't around. "What's the matter, Momie?'" he repeated. Clair sighed again. "I'm just tired, I guess. Mel, do you realize I haven't had an ounce of help from Pat since the basketball season started?" "T'm not at all surprised," Mel rejoined. "When I was on the main basketball team in high school, my family didn't see me at all, unless they came to a game and watched me on the floor. Clair, what say we take in the game together tonight?" "Mel, don't you realize I'm worn out from doing every bit of housework myself. Anyway, I don't understand basketball as you do." "You don't have to understand all the plays to enjoy it. Just count the baskets each side puts in. Easy as that! Why you haven't seen a game all season." "But, Mel, I have the mending to do this evening and." "The mending will keep, Clair. You're going to the game tonight and watch Patty lead the Pep Club." WF OOK HE superintendent was giving some form of welcome as Mel and Clair Seaton walked into the STANDING PAT gymnasium. They had just found seats in the center of the balcony, when their own hometown, the Lincoln High, band started plaving "America," and the spectators all arose. 'Then it was that Clair saw her. Pat came through the big front door of the gym carrying a very large silk flag. It was on a long pole, which must weigh pounds and pounds, yet Pat carried it regally, patriotically, reverently. Patty had never mentioned that she was the flag bearer. But Clair had never asked her, either. Immediately behind Pat were three girls. Yes, Clair knew them, Karen, Nancy, and Sue, the other cheerleaders. They were, like Pat, dressed in white satin full-gored dresses and wore the red school emblem on the front. The cheerleaders were prancing sort of like high-stepping horses in time to the music, and in step with Pat, a little ahead. 'To the very center of the gym Pat came with the beautiful flag flowing behind her. Then they all stood, and Pat led the whole gym full of people with the salute to the flag. Clair felt her eyes brimming, as she placed her hand over her heart. How long had it been since she herself had pledged allegiance to the flag? "One nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all." 'The words were as beautiful now as she had thought them when she herself went to school. Now the game was commencing. The two teams, their own Lincoln Tigh and the opposing team, the Bickel High, were running on the floor, and everyone was cheering. The two referees in black striped suits came forward, and tossed the ball in the center of the floor. Clair 313. Could see both teams were out to win. Why this was equally as exciting as a three-ring circus. Clair looked over toward the cheering section to see if she could see Pat. 'There she was, motioning for a cheer. What were they shouting? A tisket, a tasket, put the ball in the basket. Come on boys pitch it in, may the best team win. Clair could hear Pat's vibrant voice above the others. May the best team win, she repeated. Why that was right sporting of them. She would have to remember to tell Pat what a nice cheer that was. 'They certainly were being good sports. About it. EL had said for her to keep her eye on the ball. She looked back and saw Lincoln High's own Max Sheldon, the big boy who played center, had the ball now. He was pitching it; it fluttered over the basket, and then dropped in. Everyone sighed. "Yea, Max! Yea, Lincoln High!' the cheering section shouted. Pat's voice was familiar to Clair above the others. Clair glanced at the scoreboard. Lincoln High had the first two points anyway. Oh, oh, Bickel High had the ball and was making. A basket. Back and forth the ten boys worked retrieving the ball, pitching it, retrieving and pitching. But Lincoln High wasn't making baskets. It was as if someone had put an invisible lid over the Lincoln High basket and the ball just couldn't go in. Clair looked at the scoreboard. My goodness, Bickel High had passed Lincoln High! 'The. 314 score was ten, two. Clair wrung her handkerchief. Something had to be done! But Pat was doing something about it. She was leading with a cheer! We have a coach who is the best The very best coach in all the West. We have a team that's genuine. Come on boys, we've got to win. Clair wondered if the boys heard the cheering on the floor as well as she could, but they must have heard, because they immediately made a basket. Clair turned quickly to look at the scoreboard, but the score was disheartening. Bickel High eleven, Lincoln only four. 'Then the whistle blew, and it was the end of the first quarter. There were Pat and the other cheerleaders stepping out farther on the floor and doing a clever routine. Clair watched them breathlessly. It was beautiful, like a ballet dance, but they were doing it to band music. 'They were singing the Lincoln High School song. Clair found herself singing along, too. A person should sing more, it was good for the soul, she thought. It was then that Pat noticed her with Mel up in the balcony. Pat smiled broadly, and waved a little personal wave of her own, special for Clair. The second quarter was beginning. The referees were holding the ball for the jump. If only something could be done to spur the Lincoln High boys to score and catch up. Then Clair heard Pat's familiar voice at high C pitch shouting a cheer. The cheering must help. Lincoln had made another basket. Clair was glad she and Mel were seated in the center balcony where she could see so well. She watched every movement of the ball. A basket for one side, a basket for the other, but always Bickel High seemed to keep that good margin ahead. 'Then it was the end of the half. Clair looked at the scoreboard. Bickel High was eighteen, Lincoln trailing behind with twelve points. LAIR looked over at Pat. She hoped she wouldn't take the score too hard. Winning meant much to Pat. But Pat was smiling, a sort of fixed showmanship smile, and she was leading the marching club onto the floor. This was why Pat had stayed so long night after night at school. The girls marched down the floor in perfect step, perfect formation, sort of like soldiers. When Pat whistled the marching team changed positions. Now they were forming four rows and marching off the floor. Now the second half of the game was beginning. Clair looked at the scoreboard again, but Bickel High was still those six points ahead of them. She found herself saying the words under her breath. "Our team must win." Clair heard the Pep Club shouting. She turned and watched Pat leading the cheer, her voice clear and strong. Why the cheering really must help the players, for after each yell it seemed the boys pitched a basket. Who had made this one? Yes, it was big Max Sheldon again. Now they were doing fine team work. 'The Lincoln High boys were putting in basket after basket. STANDING PAT After each basket Pat was shouting: "Yea Max, Yea Charles, Yea Kenny!" CLAIR looked around for the boys' mothers. But they didn't seem a be here. They should be here to enjoy the glory heaped upon their boys. How could she herself have missed so many games when her being here meant so much to Pat? Then the dreadful thing happened! Max, the big wonderful center, fell. 'The game was temporarily stopped. The coach rushed from the bench to where Max lay, unable to get up. Even Clair knew what this meant to Lincoln High. What was Mel saying? "He's their best player. They can't get along without Max Sheldon." The people started rushing onto the floor, but the coach was saying, "Stand back, give him air." Then Max was carried from the floor. The coach over the loud speaker said that it was a sprain, nothing serious, but that Max could not play the rest of the game. Little Mike Roper, a junior, was replacing big Max Sheldon. Clair could tell about how he felt. Sort of scared, and afraid of the job he had to do, filling Max's shoes, yet proud to serve, to help his school. What this boy needed was a pat on the back to let him know he was important, and that he really was capable of filling his new position. Pat was giving him just the encouragement he needed. "Let's give three cheers for Mike!" she shouted up at the cheering section. Mike smiled and ran to retrieve the ball. Then from the cheering section came another loud cheer: 315 Roll up that score, roll up that score, Roll up that score as you've never done before. Roll, Lincoln, roll! It seemed to Clair the cheering was all it took. Mike, who had felt too insignificant to replace big Max Sheldon, had a job to do and was doing it. Steadily the five men took up the routine play which netted basket after basket. "Such teamwork!" Mel shouted in Clair's ear. "Such teamwork. That will do it like nothing else." "Have you watched Pat?" Clair asked her husband. "Too busy watching the game." He laughed. "She's doing a good job though. Giving the boys courage." That was it, Clair thought. Pat was giving courage when they needed it. Everyone needed to know someone was cheering for him. She should have been doing more cheering for Pat. Clair glanced at the time clock. Why they were on the last minute of the third quarter. Mike Roper was in the center of the gym holding the ball and wondering if there was time to do something. When he heard the shout "throw," he threw. The ball flew through the air, then dipped over the basket, made contact, and by so doing upped the score two points to tie the game at the close of the third quarter. A sigh went through the crowd. "Good going," Mel shouted in Clair's ear. She reached over and squeezed his hand. Now the fourth quarter, the home stretch was upon them. Yet it was like starting a new game because of the tied score. Clair found herself joining with the 316 Lincoln spectators and shouting, "Come on boys!" Mel poked her gently, smiled and said, "Let your little daughter do the cheering, Momice." Momie, the same word which had so annoyed her two hours ago, now it sounded sweet to her ears. It's all in the frame of mind, Clair thought. The entire building was as if it was rocking with vibrations, the band playing, the cheering, the coaxing and shouting from the spectators. HE ball, like a jumping jack, went from one end of the hall to the other, never stopping, never idle, always the center of attraction with hundreds of eyes constantly upon it. Clair realized that Pat would be hoarse when it was all over. 'Thank goodness there wasn't another game for a few nights, perhaps she could recover in time to shout again at the next one. Never mind the next one, Clair chided herself. 'Vhis game is the important one. The boys were making quite a few baskets now. One after another, but the two teams were nip and tuck, and it was the last minute and still it could be anybody's game. What could be done to win? Clair wrung her handkerchief helplessly. She couldn't remember when she had been so excited. 'Then from the cheering section: Ten baskets, five baskets, two will do. Come on Lincoln we're for you! Suddenly Mike Roper pitched a basket in, which brought the score two points ahead of Bickel High. Such shouting and screaming! Ordinarily this much racket would have sent Clair's head skyrocketing. Could it be that because her own mouth was open cheering and shouting, the pressure was relieved? The ball was in the hands of Lincoln's boys. 'The ball flew through the air, landed in the basket to score, just before the clock pinged out the time, and the game was OVET. Clair looked up at the scoreboard as everyone else was doing. "Visitors 44, Hometown 48." Lincoln High was the home team. They had won! Clair looked around for Pat. She must be exhausted. But Pat had run out on the floor to the team. "Congratulations!" Pat shouted, loud enough for even Clair to hear. What were they saying to Pat? "We couldn't have done it without you, Pat, and the Pep Club. It kept us going like nothing else. We knew you were behind us all the way." Yes, Clair thought, Pat had stood behind the team, the school, the community, but who had stood behind Pat? She vowed she would be a more understanding mother, a cheerer. How could she have expected Pat to do more than she was already doing? She, not Pat, had been in the wrong this particular time. She forever complaining about headaches, and a few dishes and housework, and never bothering to come to the games. Clair felt tears wanting to be evidenced, but she blinked them back. Clair was happy about the results of the game, but, mostly, she was happy about the change in herself which this certain game had brought about. She had a score of her own to roll up and cache away. llot Only (By (Bread Dorothy ]. Roberts No?! Only by bread, were we children fed by my mother — but by cake and righteousness and the constancy of her presence;