A Case for Contrast Evalyn Miller Sandberg Brown moments may be made to serve a purpose. Suppose you were an artist with a brush: Would you paint all your lines with equal accent And never add a shadow's restful hush? Could you portray upon the stage a story So simple that it had no plot to solve? Would you compose concertos or crescendos Without soft modulation to resolve? Brown moments may be made to serve a purpose. Like moving shadows of a bird in flight, They make time's course from dawn to fading sunset And add new depth to scarlet-tipped delight. O<—-- Crossed WVires Genevieve Van Wagenen NE of the late model cars has a clever little gadget or safety device which signals when one goes beyond the desired speed. If you are driving in the city, you set it for thirty miles per sos Should you go over the thirty miles, light flashes and a little buzzer rings until you slow to the proper speed. Thus you avoid difficulty with the law. We, the people of this modern twentieth century generation, came equipped with a wonderful safety device -—— the same as all previous generations. This safety device has been called '"'conscience" and the "'still small voice.' Call it whatever you will, its purpose is to remind us to be honest and deal justly with our fellow men. It is a most valuable instrument. It develops understanding, brotherhood, and love. It insures peace and harmony — that's what we all want! But too few people ever hear the gentle buzzing of this delicate instrument. They have their wires crossed with a gadget called "'greed'"' and "selfishness." Annie Nlaria Spray Steel ITlakes ITlany Braided "Rugs NNIE Maria Spray Steel of Oakley, Idaho, lost her sight soon after her eightieth birthday — but she did not lose her joy in new accomplishments. She took a course in typing from the records for the blind and became a proficient typist. In February and March of 1959, she visited with her daughter in Salt Lake City, Utah, where she was instructed in rug making by a teacher from the Center for the Blind. In one year she has made the rugs shown in the picture. Mrs. Steel has served the Church in many capacities. As a girl of fifteen she served as Sunday School organist, and since that time her musical talents and training have been useful in many types of Church and community work. She has been a Relief Society member ever since her marriage and served as a ward president for many years. She attended the dedication of the Salt Lake 'Temple, and now, at the age of cighty-four, her memory is excellent. She is the mother of ten children and grandmother to cighteen.