[Vol56 | December 1969 | Page 890 | Special Feature | Service Hugh | B. Brown]
Spoke President Hugh B. Brown in the General Session of the conference. President Joseph Fielding Smith, Elder Mark E. Petersen, and Elder Marion G. Romney gave inspiring addresses urging women to use their powers (as women) to better the world, to strengthen their homes, to encourage their husbands; to place their confidence in the priesthood, to teach their sons to understand and honor their priesthood, and to "save souls" as they were originally instructed to do by the Prophet Joseph Smith. The messages of the priesthood leaders and those of the Relief Society General Presidency and The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1969 other participants of the conference together with the moving, and, at times, ethereal music rendered by Singing Mothers choruses combined to make this conference, according to many, the "'best ever." New emphasis was given to excellence in music by the rendition of an _ hour-long. Choral presentation together with a narration during the Stake Board session in the Tabernacle. The combined Singing Mothers choruses of the Cottonwood, Mill Creek, Murray, and Wilford Regions, under the _ brilliant musicianship of Sister Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board, provided the conference with a new dimension in this phase of Relief Society work. The chorus was 'accompanied by Roy M. Darley, a Tabernacle organist. The galaxy of nine departmental meetings held simultaneously produced ideas designed to assist in the various facets of Relief Society work. These meetings sparkled with exciting homemaking displays, original dramatizations set to specially composed music, with cogent addresses, visual aids, and demonstrations. The Official Instructions issued by President Belle S. Spafford, who presided at all major sessions, were given as guidelines for the governing of the world Society. President Spafford also challenged the women by her stirring address, "If It Is Right, We Can Do It." She said, "The task before us is great but it is not beyond our successful accomplishment." In her address Counselor Marianne C. Sharp reminded the women that "Charity Never Faileth," and Counselor Louise W. Madsen spoke of the "Spiritual Values of Homemaking." Against beautiful settings in the Relief Society Building and Parley's Stake Center women gathered the evening of October lst personally to meet the Relief Society Presidency and members of the General Board. There they partook of refreshments and exchanged greetings during the annual reception honoring the visiting sisters. The unifying of womenkind into a world sisterhood—a goal of Relief Society—was particuly underscored by the attendance of a large group of Lamanite Relief Society sisters from the Northern Indian Mission. Sisters from cities with different sounding names such as Pago Pago and Sao Paulo mingled with those from Anaheim, Idaho Falls, Snowflake, Kansas City, and Kalamazoo. Surnames like Red Wolf, Jack Rabbit, Fadmausili, Gonzales, and Jones, smiled, embraced, and communed as "sisters" do. When the conference closed at 4 p. M. Thursday, October 2, there seemed to be an eagerness to apply what had been seen and heard. The sisters returned to their homes with the words of President Hugh B. Brown ringing in their ears: "... The mission of Relief Society is to establish in the hearts of... Women a love that involves unselfishness, willing sacrifice, mutual forbearance, absolute fidelity, and dauntless devotion." 893 @ The howling wind made the tall old house rock and creak. It came down the _ stovepipe blowing puffs of smoke into the room from the big pot-bellied 'stove. The windows were rattling, and Mama was stuffing rags into the cracks to hold back the snow. I ran to her and held onto her skirt. Sternly she told me to let go so she could move around. She stopped for. A minute, scraped frost from the _ glass pane, looked out, then started to cry. Mama cried a lot these cold winter days. Papa said she was just homesick, but I knew better, for I heard them talking after they put me to bed. "There's no use in staying in this God-forsaken place,' Mama said, "now that you have sold the cattle, we can go back to Southern Utah, and live like other people!" "I am not leaving the land I took in as part payment on the cattle," Papa said, "besides Canada is a coming country, already the land is fast being taken by homesteaders." 894 " Lila L. Sau I did not know what a Godforsaken, place was, or what homesteaders were, but I thought it must have something to do with all the snow and ice piling up outside, and something terrible - would happen to us as it did to the people in the Bible, when God did not like them. It was dark when Papa and the boys came in, stomping the snow from their. Boots and clothes. Mama lit the lamp, and started supper.: "Is it time to put the nails in the wall for the stockings?" I asked Mama. "Yes, get your brothers to put them in behind the kitchen stove, so the things Santa puts in them won't freeze," Mama said looking at Papa. "Do you think Santa Claus can get through the deep snow?" I whispered to my big brother. "Sure," he said, "Mr. Taylor at the post office says he always gets through. Sometimes the mailman brings things for him." I ran to get the stockings, and started hanging them on the nails, but as I reached far over to the last nail my hand slipped and I touched the back of the hot stove. I let out a scream. Papa picked me up, and started soothing me.