EVAN JENSEN Women and Tithe Paying By Donna D. Sorensen UCH has been spoken and M written of the power and in- © fluence of women in promoting a cause. Probably not many women have realized how potent can be their influence upon the family in the payment of tithes. Generally men are the providers and as such they desire to make available to their families the best within their power to supply, and the present day budgeting of the income is largely left to the women. Because tithing involves the finances of the family and women usually spend the greater proportion of the family income, a wife and mother fully converted to the law of tithing usually means a household where this obligation is met. A few years ago when a young couple were married the husband expressed to the wife his earnest desire to pay his tithing. As time went on and added responsibility came, the wages of the couple never seemed to more than meet their expenses and the law of tithing was not kept. The plea of the wife was that the income was insufficient. Dissatisfaction entered the heart of the husband, and the wife was not happy over her attitude either as she had been taught differently. However, she was not sufficiently converted to the principle to catch the vision and to change her attitude. Had each had the same desire in this matter, love and peace would have thrived in their midst instead of loss of respect, bickerings and general dissatisfaction. Surely no woman can purchase anything that would give the inner satisfaction and the promise of blessings from our Father as much as in making the income provide for the payment of tithing. EVEN though the Prophet Joseph Smith charged the women of Relief Society with the instruction "to provoke the brethren to good works," a woman's influence in the home extends further: than aiding and abetting her husband to obey this principle. It is her responsibility in part as parent to remember that the Lord has given specific instruction in this day that it is the duty of parents to teach their children to "walk uprightly before the Lord." He says further that "I have commanded you to bring up your children in light and truth," for, says He, "I, the Lord, am not well pleased with the inhabitants of Zion for there are idlers among them; and their children are also growing up in wickedness; they also seek not earnestly the riches of eternity, but their eyes are full of greediness. These. Things ought not to be, and must be done away from among them.'— (Doctrine and Covenants 69:31-32.) The late Apostle James E. Talmage has said that "The prime or great purpose behind the establishment of the law of the tithe is the development of the soul of the tithepayer,' and "Tithing is the Lord's order of revenue, and He requires it of the people, not because He is lacking in gold and silver, but because they need to pay it." Greediness is not engendered but rather unselfishness is taught the child when the mother teaches that child to take the tithe from his allowance or his small earnings and present in person such a tithe to his bishop. PSYCHOLOGISTS tell us that the way to establish a habit is to 316 give the child practice in the habit and to make it extremely satisfying. With this knowledge in mind then the more often the mother can give the child practice in the payment of his tithing and the more ways she can devise to make such a practice satisfying means added assurance that the habit will become a fixed one. Certainly the praise of the mother and various family members, the keeping of the individual receipts of tithing paid by the child and reference to them at the end of the year and various other devices will make this a most satisfying experience to the child. Women are usually the guardians of details in the home and the zealous pursuance of suggestions in the matter of meeting this law of tithing will yield rich dividends. What gratitude would a_ child taught such a principle have when that child is grown and that habit has been established to find that he has learned not only obedience to a commandment of God but has been blessed by the Lord to the extent that the Lord has opened the windows of heaven and poured him out a blessing even as He promised one of His prophets He would. Children may be taught the law of tithing in the Church auxiliaries but all such teaching cannot equal the example of the parents in the home in this matter. Here a child may gain a comprehension of his obligation to our Father. Here he may learn that the Lord is no respecter of persons and what He requires of the greatest He requires of the least. The responsibility of the mothers to teach their children this law is greater when we realize that not only was this a law which was known anciently but that it has been re-enacted in the Church in this dispensation of restoration and fulness. Women might well examine with what attitude they meet this obligaRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tion, for often the attitude of the entire family is the attitude of the mother. There are those whose attitude is one of mere acceptance toward a duty. Some may go a step further and express a willingness to comply, but blessed indeed is the household where the mother regards the payment of tithing with eagerness and happiness of spirit that the Lord has given to the faithful this means of promoting His work on the earth and meriting untold blessings. In obeying the will of our Father in regard to this law many women can testify that there has come to members of their household renewed eagerness and willingness to conform to the word and will of the Lord in other matters. It seems to be a law of life that the more perfectly we measure up and live a law of God the more we desire to measure up in other commandments. Especially is this true of the law of tithing, for as Apostle Rudger Clawson has said: "Tt is the test of every man's faith, and it is the test of every woman's faith who earns means and should be a tithepayer. That is the test, if a man is an honest tithepayer he will be pretty honest in everything else. I declare unto you, if a man pays tithing, he will pray, he will go to his quorum meetings, he will go to his sacrament meetings, and he will do a great many other things. I do not know that you could apply a greater or a stronger test." This same idea too is in a statement by Brigham Young but treated conversely when he said, "If we neglect to pay our tithes and offerings we will neglect other things and this will grow upon us until the spirit of the Gospel is entirely gone from us, and we are in the dark, and know not whither we are going." If women use their influence in promoting this law in their households they will have the privilege of WOMEN AND TITHE PAYING having their families numbered with those who have the interests of this Church at heart inasmuch as they have contributed their proportion to the upbuilding of Zion and the mainSith tenance of the work of the Lord on the earth. Satisfaction will flow into their inmost beings and there will be implanted within their souls "the peace that passeth understanding."