Dao * Sylvester Quayle Cannon By Julia A. F. Lund "By their fruits ye shall know them." T would be difficult to find a subject more thoroughly a "fruit" of our Church in its ideals and its standards, than is Sylvester Quayle Cannon. He was born on a farm just outside Salt Lake City at a time when the sturdy spirit of the Pioneers was still strongly reflected, for June 10, 1877 is not too far removed from July, 1847. His was the immense advantage of coming from parents who are in every sense "goodly parents." His mother, Elizabeth Hoaglund Cannon, was descended from those who laid the foundation of our American nation, achieved its independence, and established its government. His father 300 was George Quayle Cannon, one of the "pillars of our Church," gifted, scholarly, staunch of faith. Their influence was a powerful factor in the life of their son. His educational training began in a private school when he was only four years of age. He later attended the L. D. S. High School and Junior College and University of Utah. When only 18 he entered the Massachusetts Institute of Technology at Boston, being graduated in 1899 with the degree of Bachelor of Science in Mining Engineering and Metallurgy. As achild, Bishop Cannon enjoyed unusual advantages of travel. While still a boy he acted as private secretary to his father on a trip to England. The year of his graduation he was sent to examine an irrigation project in Alberta, Canada. This was followed by extensive travel in many foreign countries. He has visited every part of the United States. He has been given wide recognition in his chosen profession of Engineering. He had charge of Weber River Land and Irrigation Surveys for the State Engineer of Utah, from 1905 to 1907. He was Water Supply Engineer for Salt Lake City from 1913 to 1925— the longest term of any City Engineer of this city. He was in charge of all engineering and construction work, including supervision of all public improvements. Three storage reservoirs were constructed during this period. A new sewer outfall system and sewage pumping plant were built and the first special lighting systems were installed during his incumbency as City Engineer. A very important event in his life was his marriage to Winnifred Saville, June 15, 1904. Four fine sons and three lovely daughters have blessed this union. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Outstanding as Bishop Cannon has been in his professional and business fields, his greatest devotion has been evidenced in his service to the Church. His service as a missionary in Europe from 1899 to 1902 was of such high quality that in 1900 he was given the honor of presiding over the NetherlandsBelgium Mission comprising Holland and Belgium. In March, 1904, he was appointed First Counselor in the Stake Presidency of Pioneer Stake in Salt Lake City, a geographical division of the Church comprising about ten thousand members. In 1907 he was again appointed President of the Netherlands-Belgium Mission, spending two years (until 1909) with his family in that mission and traveling in Europe. In 1917 he was appointed President of the Stake in which he had served as counselor. His service to his Church received distinct recognition by his appointment in 1925 as Presiding Bishop of the Church. The Presiding Bishopric have supervision of about 96,700 members of the Aaronic Priesthood, are in charge of compilation of all ward, stake, mission and Priesthood reports, membership transfers, receiving of tithes, supervision of Church building construction, as well as many other details. This is a broad and fine preparation for the higher calling of apostleship which has now come to him. The General Presidency and Board of Relief Society work under the direction of the Presiding Bishopric. For many years this association has been very close, always on a basis of clear understanding and broad sympathy. The Relief Society feels greatly indebted to Bishop Cannon and the willing, capable advisers who have done so much to further the health and welfare projects and the general educational and cultural programs of the organization,