When we have learned to appreciate exquisite simplicity, we will be a long way on the road to an appreciation of the best in literature. There is no disgrace in not being able to sec the beauty and meaning in many fine things the first time we read them. One way to exercise a mind is to try it occasionally on something we don't quite understand, then come back to it later. As we develop these new beauties appear. One writer says: "For the high adventure of reading you must develop not only sight but insight, and that sometimes comes slowly, partly by growth, partly by cultivation, and partly by the grace of God." QUOTATIONS HAPPY is he that is happy in his children —Thomas Fuller. "THE childhood shows the man, as the morning shows the day. —Miulton. [MPARTIALLY their talents scan: Real education forms the man. —John Gay. Happenings By Anne Wells Cannon [DEARER are the lanes of Earth today, As the spirit of flowering May In perfumed glory adorns the way. COUNTESS GERALDINE APPONYI, Queen of Albania, is the beautiful daughter of an American mother and Hungarian father. Through Mussolini's intercession the Catholic Church's opposition to her marriage to King Zog was overcome. RACHEL CROTHERS, a successful woman playwright, has a score of Broadway productions as well as many Hollywood films to her credit. FORMER Empress Zita gathered her children around her at midnight mass to pray for Austria and the Hapsburgs. However futile were her prayers, this tragic picture made a pathetic appeal for world sympathy. ETZY KJELSBERG, of Norway, vice president of the International Council of Women, is touring America, lecturing on social problems. YOUNG ELIZABETH STEELE STAPLEY who died last month was the first white child born in Utah. Death also claimed last month Elizabeth Pixton Harker, Eliza Ann Wertoner Redd, and Armeda Snow Young, all faithful and devoted Relief Society workers. ELEN WILLS MOODY again expects to compete in two English tennis tournaments and enter the Wimbledon championships. KATHARINE GREY of California, aged 100 years, says she has no formula for longevity. She reads, sews, and crochets for pastime. MONG the new books, written by women and praised by the reviewers this year, are first, "Young Doctor Galahad," by Elizabeth Siefert, which won the $10,000 prize for the best first novel of the year; and 'We Americans," by Elin L. Anderson, which won the $1,000 Armisfield prize. Then Isak Dinesen's "Out of Africa," a lyrical picture of an African farm; "Tunny Kemble," a famous Juliet of the long ago, by Margaret Armstrong; "An Infamous Army," by Georgette Heyer; "Caroline of England," a novel of English social life from the early nineties to the death of George V, by Noel Streatfield; "The Light of Other Days," by Elizabeth Corbett; "This Proud Heart," by Pearl S. Buck, her first novel with an American setting; "A World Can End," by Princess Irina Skariatina, an autobiography embracing the period of the World War and Russian Revolution, all interesting vacation reading. MES: CLARENCE WEBER is the first woman member from the state of Victoria elected to the Australian Parliament.