Elaine closed her eyes and rested a moment, then straightened her  body to bear the next onslaught of pain. So this is what it was like, this frenzied darkness, this black despair. There came again the comforting touch of the cool hands. Elaine relaxed and thought for a moment of the gleaming chain that is motherhood through the ages. One mother comforting her daughter, who, in turn, was bringing another life into the world. Tightly the mother held Elaine's hands. 'Patience, dear. When you see your baby you will forget all this..." Such comfort in the words. Interval of peace. There, with her mother bending over her, it seemed to Elaine that courage came from her mother's body to hers so that she could endure the pain. * * "THE days of her mother's life, linked with her own. Now it was a morning in spring, and the last of these days was gone. Never again would Elaine call and be answered faithfully as mothers answer. The silver cord was broken. She turned restlessly in the narrow bed in this room of her girlhood, and the morning came in a pattern of flecked sunlight that made a radiance in the room. Elaine got out of bed slowly, went over to the washstand and splashed cold water on her face. She dressed carefully in a plain black frock with white collar and cuffs, and stood a moment before the mirror. Last night she had laid her little pocket Bible on the dressing table, the Bible her mother had given her long ago. She turned the pages now, noticed the passages that her mother had underlined... Fragments of beauty from the Psalms, paragraphs in the story of Ruth. And then, there in the nineteenth chapter of Job, the immortal words, scored with the mother's pen... "For I know that my Redeemer liveth... Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold..." Elaine closed the book softly, laid it back on the dressing table. She lifted her head and turned toward the door. "I can go down now," she said to herself, "this day shall be a testament of motherhood." aH MOTHER'S DAY By Ruth Partridge Richan Today should be a happy day, No mother e'er loved tears or sighs, Yet days of happiness may bring Wet dimness to our yearning eyes. The tears that come unbidden now Are not the tears of our despair, But love within us grown so dear It's hard for human hearts to bear.