Some Thoughts Addressed to the Mothers of Israel By Leah D. Widtsoe HE presiding authority of this Church feels the pressing need of a more definite stand in helping our people to understand why they must refrain from the debilitating and demoralizing liquor and tobacco habits. They have addressed their plea to all Church members; but there is a distinct responsibility i in this regard resting upon the mothers and the homes of the Church. It has been said of old that "the hand that rocks the cradle rules the world." No truer thought was ever expressed. The mother's influence and the home environment truly shape the habits as well as the characters of all the family. Our greatest efforts should be directed toward the prevention of these vicious habits and to do that effectively everyone must be made aware of the dangers involved and how they may be avoided. In the first place, the body must be adequately nourished so that the nerves may be healthy and normal. When through improper nourishment the nerves cry out with an unsatisfied craving for something indefinite or unknown, it is an easy leap to the use of the tempting, well advertised drugs so commonly used - today. And even though the first trial may cause nausea or definite illness the urge of common usage may be enough to prompt repeated trials with the consequent soothing sensation which is the only positive factor the addict can advance. Then, almost before one is aware, the habit is established and one is on the road to complete drug enslavement. 'This applies especially to young girls and women who in their unwise desire for the slablike silhouette in vogue at present will often starve themselves, if necessary, so that they may preserve (as they hope!) their youthful girlish figures. They then become an easy prey for the deadly drugs masked in well advertised brands of cigarettes or cocktails which soothe for the moment, but wh. Ch in reality enslave their victims. Too often definite illness may result with a complete nervous or physical breakdown. This may come gradually, but unless the eating and other habits are changed it is inevitable. HE physical health of an individual as of a family or a community is basic for mental and moral health. Whatever builds health of body is desirable; that which depletes the physical or nervous energy should beshunned by all who would be well and joyous throughout life's journey. Thus it becomes most imperative that mothers study and apply the laws which insure physical health and well being. The proper food must be provided and wise eating habits established. In the second place, all must recognize that the drugs most commonly used by man today are all in the same category. Dr. George F. Butler of the medical department of the University of Illinois is authority for the statement that "the intimate relationship existing between the three great narcotic groups—tobacco, alcohol and opium—has been recognized by outstanding medical investigators. 306 Their effects are so similar that they may be regarded as a single entity— the drug habit." Harmful in a lesser degree, though certainly habit-forming and injurious, are the drugs found in tea, coffee, chocolate and all the advertised drinks that "give you a lift." The "drink that refreshes" as all others of like quality depends upon the powerful drug caffein to do the "'lifting" and "'refreshing.'"* Their effects are insidious and distinctly injurious to the delicate organs of digestion and especially to the brain and nerves. The great danger in the use of any drug-containing substance is that the one of ten leads to the other with an increasingly larger dose ever in demand. While it may not be true that every user of tobacco or alcohol will in time become an opium addict, it is true that one scarcely ever becomes enslaved to the deadly opium or morphine habit who was not first. A user of tobacco or alcohol or both. Certain it is that when one begins the use of any drug concoction no matter how mild or what the motive, one is "on the way" to future enslavement. The pity of it is that the more delicate the nervous organization, the more definite and rapid is the enslavement. That is the great menace to the use of any of these things by children or young women. All authorities agree that smoking and drinking are much more harmful to women than to men because women are much more apt to go to excess. If the lot of any drug addict is pitiable for men, it is most pitiable for women for they are the conservers of the race; through them the "Torch of Life" is passed on to future generations! If the torch be dim and uncertain then one may well ask "What does the future hold for the race?" If not for self, then for unborn children, girls and boys should refuse to mortgage the future. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MANY people feel that while it is definitely wrong to use alcohol or opium, there is practically little danger in the use of tobacco. It is true that smoking tobacco does not leave one intoxicated nor definitely incompetent as does the use of alcohol and other drugs. It is also true that many men who are recognized leaders in their field are users of tobacco. Yet the harmful effects of tobacco are inevitable and definite. All physiologists agree that the use of tobacco interferes definitely with heart action and induces a "constriction of the small blood vessels in certain parts of the body." Heart disease today is increasing enormously and counts among its victims young and old. Indeed it causes more deaths among civilized people today than any other disease. Its incidence has greatly increased since the World War. May there not be a definite connection between the increasing incidence of heart disease and the great increase in the use of tobacco? While there are other causes, certainly the use of tobacco greatly aggravates the disease. The great increase of gastric ulcer among civilized people is another evidence that their living habits are not right. The cause undoubtedly is wrong diet, yet this condition also is greatly aggravated by the use of tobacco. "Every smoker knows that smoking dries up the secretions of the mouth and many of them know that it causes high acidity of the stomach." There are conscientious doctors who refuse to treat patients with gastric ulcer unless they discontinue smoking. The same may be said about other diseases, notably all the diseases of the respiratory tract and the entire digestive system. While the cause of these diseases may be wrong or THOUGHTS ADDRESSED TO MOTHERS OF ISRAEL 307 inadequate nutrition yet they are all greatly aggravated by the use of tobacco in any form as well as by other deadly drugs. Probably the greatest menace of the tobacco and other drug habits are the effect upon the reproductive powers of men and women and eventually upon the human race. Doctors are agreed that smoking not only affects the intimate sex life of men and women, but that it also has a "profound and deleterious effect upon all of their other sexual and reproductive functions." Surely the cigarette must stand condemned! ALCOHOL, or its use in any form as punch, wine, or the social cocktail, is equally dangerous and may lead to far more human misery. While tobacco is a nerve poison affecting especially those which control the terminal blood vessels, alcohol is an active glandular and tissue poison, causing their destruction or conversion into fatty tissue. It is especially liable to affect the heart, liver, and other organs of the body; but its deadliest effect is on the brain where it "acts in such a way as to block nervous impulses not merely in outer nerve channels but in the brain itself." The most direct effect is upon the higher brain centers, leaving the lower impulses in the ascendancy; thus intoxication results and one becomes something less than a human being. This is sure to cause much physical suffering in time and to greatly shorten life. That this is a calm statement of fact, instead of the plea of a would-be reformer, one need only accept the findings of the great insurance companies of this and other countries. They all agree that the death rate among the strict- © ly temperate or moderate drinkers is 15 per cent to 100 per cent higher than among those who are total abstainers. These are facts, not mere theories. Indeed there seems to be a direct relation between the amount of alcohol consumed and the bodily harm that results therefrom. Were the harm that comes to the user of alcohol in any form the only consideration it would be enough to make one pause before taking a first sip of the deadly stuff. But that is too often the least part of the misery that may be caused by its indulgence. It always inflicts unnecessary suffering upon all the family and dear ones of the user and too often the torture or even death of innocent strangers when he sits behind the wheel of an automobile. O one may deny that the use of alcohol and tobacco, as of other deadly drugs is greatly on the increase amongst so-called civilized peoples. Dr. Frank Leighton Wood sounds a needed warning: '"'What is to be the outcome of the narcotic drug addiction in this country? Must we forget the lessons taught us by the Greeks and Romans? Although we have advanced marvelously in science and mechanics, in many respects we are not more cultured than were the Romans in the year A. D. 300. They had advanced to a high state of civilization, but, with wine and debauchery, came physical, moral, social, and political ruin. Perhaps our civilization has not already gone to pieces to the extent that Hendrik Van Loon thinks, but, unless something is done to stop the present trend toward the enslavement of American women with race-destroying drug habits, we are on our way and will follow in the footsteps of the founders of former civilizations." In this fight for right the mothers of this Church must take a stand. Did not the Lord intend that his people should be leaders in this regard  when He gave us the Word of Wisdom over one hundred years ago? Then, what are we doing about it, Mothers of Israel? Our duty shall not be done until we ourselves learn and then teach our children the harm and suffering caused by these destructive agencies and how. To avoid them. Our greatest efforts must be placed on the prevention of these habits amongst our dear ones. Our homes must be free from taint and we must learn to control our appetites if we expect our children to resist these insidious temptations when they leave the parental roof. The mother who indulges her own appetite for tea and coffee; who serves her brandy pudding sauce, ''doctored" punch, or holiday egg-nog; who makes fermented root beers or wines; or permits the use of hard cider in the home must not be strprised when her son or daughter yields to the Tempter outside the home, especially when met at the social or party and surrounded by pleading or scoffing friends (?) who may ridicule their refusal. Nothing but a firm background of faith in a Higher Power, a sure knowledge of the consequences, with a mental picture of Mother and Father standing consistently firm against these practices, will give your child the strength to say "No!" on this all too common occasion. Shall we not dedicate ourselves to live every day as Mothers and providers of the home-morale so that we and our children may not be victims of any enslaving habit, that thereby we may help our children and others to understand the Joy of Being Free!