Recollections of Rachel Ivins Grant By Lucy Grant Cannon HE knowledge of a well spent life is a priceless heritage. Such a life is our inheritance who are of the lineage of Rachel Ivins Grant. Hers was a life given to willing and loving service to her child, her Church, and her people. Through her unselfish service she developed a character which was as nearly perfect as one attains in mortality. She was indeed a true Latter-day Saint. The following is Grandmother's own account of her conversion to the Church, dictated shortly before her death, January 1909, when she was. Over eighty years old: ' Y parents died when I was quite young. My grandparents on both sides were Quakers, consequently I was brought up under that influence. But the silent worship of the 'Friends' did not satisfy the cravings of my soul. I longed to hear the beautiful hymns that my mother had taught to her little children even in our tender years, and the spirit often moved me to burst out in songs of praise, and it was with difficulty I could refrain from doing so. "At the age of sixteen years, with the consent of my relatives, I joined the Baptist church. The singing pleased me and the prayers were somewhat inspiring, but the sermons were not much more satisfactory than the none-at-all of the Quakers. I was religiously inclined but not of the long-faced variety. I thought religion ought to make people happier, and that was the kind of religion I was looking for. "About this time we heard of some strange preachers called 'Mormons' who had come to our neighborhood. I concluded they were some of the false prophets that the Bible speaks of and I had no desire to see or hear them. Soon after I left my home in New Jersey to visit relatives in Philadelphia, little thinking what would transpire in my absence. The elders held meetings near our home and soon after my sister Anna and some of my cousins accepted the truth and were baptized. She was filled with the spirit of the Gospel, and when I returned she urged me to attend the meetings with her. I went to the meeting on Saturday, but when she asked me to go on Sunday I did not know whether I ought to break the Sabbath day by going to hear them or not, but through her persuasion and that of a schoolmate, who had come some distance on purpose to hear them, I finally went, but upon returning home I went to my room, knelt down and asked the Lord to forgive me for thus breaking the Sabbath day. "T attended some more meetings and commenced reading the Book of Mormon, Voice of Warning and other works, and was soon convinced that they were true. A new light seemed to break in upon me, the scriptures were plainer to my mind, and the light of the everlasting Gospel began to illuminate my soul. While thus investigating, a little child died whose mother had joined the Latter-day Saints. The Baptist minister preached about it, regretting that its parents had neglected to have RACHEL IVINS GRANT RECOLLECTIONS OF RACHEL IVINS GRANT it baptized and thereby it was lost and could not have salvation. Afterwards Elder Hyde preached the funeral sermon and portrayed the glories of our Father's kingdom and the saved condition of the little innocent ones who died before they came to the years of accountability—'For of such is the kingdom of heaven.' "The contrast was very great. I was steadily being drawn to the Gospel net. One day while attending the Baptist prayer meeting our pastor admonished me for the course I was taking and said if I did not stop going to the 'Mormon' meetings I could not hold my seat in the Baptist church, and they would be obliged to disfellowship me for they could not fellowship anyone who would listen to such false doctrine. "This seemed to settle the question with me. One wanted to hold me against my convictions, and the other was free salvation without money and without price. I soon handed my name for baptism and rendered willing obedience to the first four requirements of the Gospel of Jesus Christ as revealed through the Prophet Joseph in this the last dispensation of the fullness of times. And, oh, what joy filled my being! I could sing all the day long and rejoice in the glorious promises of the Gospel. Brother Joseph and Brother Grant and others came and preached to us, and truly the light of the Gospel was shed abroad in our hearts. The Bible I could understand as never before—its truths were made plain to me, and the plan of salvation lay clear before me. The spirit of gathering found a ready response in my heart, and I decided to go with my cousins to Nauvoo, the gathering place of the Saints. "The first year of my stay was a very happy one. The Saints were enjoying comparative peace and much prosperity. I became better 295 acquainted with the Prophet Joseph and I learned more of the principles of the Gospel. The doctrine of salvation for the dead was very pleasing to me, and the thought that my parents and others who were dead, as well as the living, could all be united together in happy family union in the eternity to come was very precious to my soul. My second year in Nauvoo was not so peaceful. These were troublous times for the Saints, much persecution and turmoil. I was sick with a long siege of fever and my life was despaired of, still my faith did not waver. I felt that I should live. I was administered to many times, and always felt better. After my recovery I went back to New Jersey on a visit where I remained till the Spring of 1853. "I started on my journey across the plains to Utah, arriving August 10, 1853. I have accepted every principle of the Gospel that has been revealed for the benefit and salvation of the human family. I rejoice greatly in the work of redemption. I acknowledge the hand of the Lord in all things. I realize that He has watched over me and guided me through life. I feel to give thanks unto Him every day of my life for His mercies and blessings unto me and mine. I rejoice in the hope of a glorious reunion with the faithful in our Father's kingdom in the world to come. I know that this is the kingdom of God. I know that Joseph Smith was a prophet of God. I have had great joy and satisfaction in communion with the Saints, and desire to remain faithful to the end." FARLY in her life Grandmother was deprived of both father and mother. After the death of her parents she lived for some time with her father's father, Caleb Ivins, a man of lovable character; known throughout the countryside as the "Good Samar- 296 itan." When about twelve years old she went to live with a cousin, Thedosia Wright, who was known the country round as a _ housekeeper without a peer. Cousin Thedosia arose with her army of workers early each morning. The housework was carried through each day with precision and regularity. Grandmother, although just a young girl, had her definite assignment of tasks. She helped with the bedroom work, and washed up the glass and silver-ware after each meal. Fruit drying, bottling, preserving, meat curing and drying, cheese making, butter making, and all the culinary arts were taught her. Her brothers and sisters who still lived with the grandfather sympathized with her because of the rigid discipline of her cousin Thedosia, and her Grandfather Ivins assured her she was welcome to come home to him any time she wanted. Although Grandmother was young and discipline strict, she enjoyed her work here. She loved to see the rows of shining glasses on the shelves in the dining room and to polish the silver until it shone. She took delight in helping with the milk and butter and cheese making. When she was about eighteen, a cousin, a widower, needed a housekeeper, so Grandmother went to fill the position. The careful training of Cousin Thedosia was now used to advantage. Grandmother became quite famous for her fine housekeeping and wonderful cooking. ER acceptance of the Gospel - changed her entire life. In the spring of 1853 her sister Anna, who was married to a cousin, Israel Ivins, and who had joined the Church prior to Grandmother's joining, wrote her saying they had decided to go West. Grandmother began immediately to prepare to go with them. She hada little more than a hundred dollars. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE This money she spent for bleach, calico, goods for both cotton and woolen dresses, thread, needles, bedding, pillow cases, sheets, and other: "store articles' which she thought she would not be able to get in Utah. (1 might say here that she found great use for these, giving most of them away to people who were in greater need than herself. She often laughingly remarked that her store was so depleted that when she had to make clothes for her baby, it was necessary to make over things as she had given all of her new goods away.) Uncle Israel was well outfitted for the journey. Grandmother often remarked with what comfort they came compared to many in their company. One would think such a radical change in the environment and mode of living as was necessary after arriving in Utah would probably change all the niceties to which she had been accustomed, but this was not so. It was necessary for her to work very hard, but she maintained her high standards of neatness and personal care. SOME years after the death of her husband, Jedediah M. Grant, President Young bought the original Grant homestead located where Z. C. M. I. Now stands. Grandmother had $500 from the estate and purchased a home on Second East Street. This home is still standing; it is No. 14. Into this little old home, which was badly in need of repair, she moved. Her store of household goods was very meager. She had a few broken dishes, some old furniture and a few things that had been given her. However, it was a start. Grandmother had to support herself and her son, who was but nine days old at the time of his father's death. It was hard in pioneer days to pay in cash for work and she would take anything RECOLLECTIONS OF RACHEL IVINS GRANT people were able to pay. It was during the early days in this home that she experienced severe poverty. She said one year they only had a few pounds of sugar, seldom did they have butter. Fruit and vegetables were scarce, and many meals consisted of bread fried in a little grease. Many a night she and father had to go to bed to keep warm because they had no fire. One day one of her friends, Daniel H. Wells, called to see her. She was busily sewing. He said he had received a letter from a friend who was coming to Salt Lake to open a business. This friend wanted a place to board, and Brother Wells asked if she would take the gentleman. He said to her, "Rachel, he will pay you forty dollars a month and that is far more than you earn sewing."' Grandmother decided to take Mr. Park Wood, although it was rather an unorthodox thing to do as the man was a "Gentile." Mr. Park Wood came and brought his wife, paying Grandmother eighty dollars a month. I have often heard father say that no matter how big a sum of money he has had in his possession that first offer of eighty dollars a month stands out as the greatest riches. One day Park Wood had a friend in the city and asked Grandmother to invite him to dinner. After the dinner was over the man, Col. Alex G. Haws, said to Grandmother, "Madam, I like your cooking, I like your face, and I am coming here tomorrow to board." Grandmother protested. She had no place to put him. He said, '"Madam when I came into your home I saw the signs of poverty." | Grandmother told him that she had borrowed the dishes he had eaten from. He then asked where my father slept and grandmother showed him a closet in which she had some boxes upon which she made her boy's bed. He 297 laughed and said he thought the closet was large enough for a single bed and if he couldn't get into the bed from the side he would step over the foot. He gave Grandmother a hundred dollars and told her to get the necessary things to fix up the room for him. Col. Haws came to live with them and a truer friend no one ever had. NTIL Grandmother was past sixty-five she maintained her own home, but due to her deafness father then decided it was unwise for her to live alone, so her home was enlarged and we came to live with her. Now instead of a whole house she had only one room and an attic. We children loved to go to her room, the younger ones to hear stories and have Grandmother sing to them, the older ones to study and read where it was quiet. Grandmother seemed to radiate a peaceful spirit. She had a little private income of her own, quite sufficient for her needs. In times of financial trouble she helped father with taxes and other bills. She was always very generous. Sometimes when we were in need of a dress or an apron or something or other Grandmother would help us out. I remember when I was about sixteen and was invited to a party. All the girls were having new dotted swiss dresses. I had spent all my allowance and so couldn't have a new dress. I was fixing my old one and telling Grandma about my troubles. She sent me down to get some samples of swiss and she went over to Sister Spencer's, a neighbor, while I was gone. When I came back, it was arranged that. Sister Spencer would make the dress for tithing pay and Grandma would purchase the goods. I remember I bought the cheapest piece I could because I knew Grandma was giving up something she needed in 298 order for me to have it. I didn't get any ribbon for it. After it was done, Grandma asked me if I didn't want some ribbon like the other girls had, and she gave me another dollar to purchase that. I wore that dress till every dot was washed off. OR more than thirty years Grandmother was the President of the 13th Ward Relief Society. In season and out she was visiting the sick, going to the house of mourning, dressing the dead, and in every possible way relieving human suffering. She was a very sympathetic listener to all troubled people, and while her own handicap of deafness often made people feel she was among the afflicted ones, she never seemed to feel sorry for herself. She would often say with her cheerful smile, "I am glad I can see; IJ feel blindness would be a great affliction." She loved to entertain her friends, and was always at her best when surrounded by congenial people. She had a happy faculty of making friends. When she entertained, she had the young, middle-aged, the old, all mingled together in sweet companionship. She read constantly. Her eyesight was remarkable. At the age of eighty-seven she could see as well as when she was a girl. She kept abreast of the times reading the newspaper, magazines, and good books. She had no time for fiction. She used to say life was too short for her to spend time on stories. She enjoyed the sermons in the Saturday News, and would watch for and read all the Conference proceedings. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Grandmother loved to sew, taking real pride in her needle work. It was indeed "art needle work". She made the finest linen handkerchiefs when she was in her eighties, using No. 250 thread to sew with. She did not look old, her skin retained its freshness. She was rather plump and had an erect carriage. One would have guessed her age several years younger than she was. Grandmother had a very satisfying philosophy of life. She believed in God with all her heart and in the innate goodness of man. She could see good in everything and everybody. She disliked anything bordering on coarseness. She had a high sense of honor and a fine feeling of sympathy for anyone in distress or sorrow. She was very liberal. Father has often quoted from a letter written to him by Colonel Haws after Grandmother's death in which the Colonel said, "If ever God has planted the stamp of serenity on the face of anyone He has planted it on the face of dear Aunt Rachel." HE testimony was always strong. She knew for herself that God had again spoken from the heavens and established His Church. Her Church was her life, and to it she gave her undying allegiance and her best efforts. Her heritage of faith has found lodgment in the heart of her son and in the hearts of her grandchildren and their hope is that they may have the sublime faith, the undying courage of this mother and grandmother.