Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew' promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return.
"Everything to Furnish the Home"
THE GREATEST VARIETY AND LARGEST STOCK OF
Living Room, Dining Room and Bedroom Furniture in the Intermountain Territory
400 Suites to Choose From
GRANITE FURNITURE CO.
Out of the High Rent District
The Home of THE ROUND OAK RANGE AND AMERICAN BEAUTY WASHER
Quality and Service Come First—We Deliver Everywhere
MURRAY SUGAR HOUSE PROVO
PEERLESS LAUNDRY
Complete Laundry Service
Snow White Clothes
All this praise for ny living room|'
INVITATION
makes me very
mt
erything for spring beautifying is attractively displayed.
All that's new and charming in wallpaper designs— paints, enamels, varnishes for every purpose—waxes and cleaners—and no end of decorative suggestions in booklets that are yours for the asking.
\wallpapers.
Jm
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
W. P. FULLER & CO.
Salt Lake and Ogden
PULLER Gey as)
PAINTS
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
1184 East 21st South
happy | chose F U L L E R |
Hyland 2182
The FULLER Paint Dealer in your town invites you to his store... Where ev-
FISHER'S VITAMIN "D" BREAD
Try this superior healthgiving bread, it is your greatest source of food-energy.
Also delicious cakes!
Products of
AMERICAN LADY BAKING COMPANY
Salt Lake City, Utah
The Big Home-Owned Bakery
There is no substitute for quality!
FEEELILELY:
SAVING
New Color
—charming new tints for your home, are ready for you in the
Op
exquisite, exclusive colors of
for all surfaces, inside and outside.
Ask for the FREE large color chips for matching with your drapes, carpets, etc.
At All Bennett Dealers
RENNETT GLASS & PAINT CO.
Salt Lake City
pay fore
A FREEZES WITH NO M
FEW cents a day!
That's all it costs to run a gas refrigerator—the refrigerator that has no moving mechanical parts to wear or become noisy.
Call at our showroom and see the beautiful new models.
MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY
Salt Lake -— Ogden — Provo
Serving 21 Utah Communities
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
MORMON HANDICRAFT
'ADD A TOUCH OF SPRING TO YOUR WARDROBE
A Dainty Handmade Collar or Handmade Gloves
BRIGHTEN THE HOME
A Colorful Rug, Lacy Bedspread or Attractive Table Cover
MORMON HANDICRAFT
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
BUREAU OF INFORMATION TEMPLE SQUARE
You area" Lawful Heir"
(Doctrine & Covenants 86:8-11)
Therefore, Thre isa Vital Message for You in
God's Covenant Race
By JAMES H. ANDERSON
As you study this volume of your racial history you will see clearly WHY Mormonism is the grand climax of 6,000 years of Bible record and promise; that we today live in Bible times and are Bible people in the truest sense.
In this unusual book you have actual, logical facts, to confirm your testimony of the Restoration of the Gospel.
You will have many UNDERSTANDABLE REASONS WHY our church claims Priesthood Leadership, Salvation for the Dead, Patriarchal Blessings, etc., with all that these things imply.
Would you like to gain this enlarged vision of Mormonism?
Would you like actual, new historical proof that God has kept His promises to your fathers and to all the prophets, including Joseph Smith?
Do you realize what it may mean to you both temporally and spiritually to be "of Ephraim'?
FREE EXAMINATION CERTIFICATE
(UT Our a Mier Limited
Good For One Week's Free Inspection of
GOD'S COVENANT RACE
By JAMES H. ANDERSON
With Genealogical Chart—


"THE BEGINNING OF MY PEDIGREE" With the volume you will receive this chart of your pedigree for 2200 years—(24 generations from Adam to Ephraim). It is prepared with dates and references ready to file in your genealogical record. This carefully indexed book shows that modern historical research has proved many items in your genealogy. The author was the first secretary of the Genealogical Society of Utah. He has written about YOUR FAMILY and your birthright. This book and chart will pleasantly surprise you. Send for them now. —©—_———_ Earl W. Harmer, Publisher, ¢/o Deseret News Press, 29 Richards St., Salt Lake City, Utah Date I should like to examine the book and chart described above. You may send them with all carriage charges prepaid. After a week 1 will either return them and owe you nothing or keep them and send $1.75, in full payment. P. S. YOUR FRIEND OWNS A COPY. ASK ABOUT IT. If payment in full, $1.75, is sent now, with this certificate, I will send an extra copy of the chart. Immediate refund if not more than pleased. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Name Address City State "Sing unto God ye kingdoms of the earth; O sing praises unto the Lord." Praises unto the Lord were sung at the Relief Society Conference by the Singing Mothers, mothers in Israel whose lives of sacrifice and devotion had given them such understanding and appreciation of life that they "sang with grace in their hearts to the Lord." Our Conference was glorified by this service. As the chorus arose, every singer alert and serious, competent and eager, a hush fell over the vast audience and as the song came forth there were tears in the eyes of the listeners; there was a response deeper than the mind, it was the response of the soul. We worshiped with them. That longing in our souls, which comes when life means most, to express ourselves in loftier terms, was satisfied as we felt with them, "None else can deliver us." It was not only a musical occasion, it was also a spiritual experience. The memory of it will illuminate our daily lives. What it must mean to carry in one's mind and heart every phrase of that almost divine music! Relief Society Singing Mothers, in the name of the great organization to which you belong, we salute you. The organization is greater today because of your service. A new height of achievement has been attained by you in Relief Society music which more than any other art has a transforming power that takes one into a higher realm of living. You spiritualized your service. As you have enriched us may you likewise be enriched beyond measure. e i py errno ty ere = ea AG SR, Sepa TH E AUGMENTED CHORUS OF RELIEF SOCIETY SINGING MOTHERS—APRIL CONFERENCE The (Relief SocietY Magazine Vout. XXV MAY, 1938 No. 5 Relief Society Singing Mothers By President Louise Y. Robison KSL Radio Address, Sunday, April 3, 1938 HE Relief Society Singing Mothers who so gloriously express praise to our Father in song, are sustained by the same power which Moses had when he sang "The Lord is my strength and my song." Surely the Lord has given strength and song to the nine hundred women who have come from their homes in ten of the Western States, and have blessed multitudes with their beautiful singing during the past four days. Were it not for the strength of the Lord which has sustained these mothers, they never could have accomplished what they have. Many have traveled long distances for rehearsals —some report as much as eighty miles twice a week. One singer who missed the group with whom she was to have traveled came to Salt Lake City by airplane. Tonight we wish to dedicate this program to the great group of Singing Mothers, to the Stake Officers of Relief Society for their support, to the Ward and Stake Choristers who have trained the voices so beautifully, that although practicing in wards located many hundreds of miles from each other, have developed a tone quality which is superb. To sing the seven new selections without copy added greatly to the enjoyment of the rendition. It is a very great pleasure to pay tribute to the families and friends who have cooperated in this stupendous undertaking. We especially appreciate the husbands and children for the sacrifice which is always made when mothers leave the home. Can you visualize the preparation which was necessary to leave three thousand five hundred children at home, and the joy which will come to these sons and daughters through the beautiful service given by their mothers? This service and all effort made pays because it has accomplished development, which is the supreme end of life. We remember, too, the friends who have assisted, one of whom said, "I cannot sing, but I shall be happy to make the blouses to be worn, and in this way help in bearing the expense of the trip."