Testament of Motherhood By Vesta P. Crawford LAINE turned restlessly in the narrow bed. Pale sunlight of early morning touched the window with slow fingers. Elaine saw the delicate etching of the dotted-swiss curtains. Morning. The morning of this farewell day. With sharp returning pain she thought of the quiet one sleeping in the big parlor downstairs —her mother, who had been so ill and so tired—now strangely at rest. "T can't believe it yet," she sobbed to herself. "I can't stand it." This day they would cover the dear one with earth and flowers and set her name in stone. Slowly the light touched the room, glowed on the little dressing table that had been Elaine's in girlhood, traced a pattern on the rug that long ago childish feet had worn thin. Familiar place, where mother and daughter had sat together sewing of a summer afternoon, reading by the fire of a winter night. But now these things would never be again. They were ended. And Elaine thought of how carefree youth: is, and then, when maturity comes, one is suddenly stricken with disappointments and loss. There were words that slipped back and forth in her mind, words that her mother had said on some nearly forgotten birthday long ago. What were -they—about mother's head lying low and the daughter being a woman grown—or something like that. Mother had said these words with tenderness in her gray eyes, for mother knew that life without cares and responsibilities is but an incomplete and narrow segment. And the poem said, "When my gir] is a woman grown and the cares of life surround her, may mother's prayers be known...." A woman grown... And here she was choked up with tears, afraid to get up and dress and go down the stairs and face this day. She was ashamed of her lack of courage. Courage. She thought of the word, for more than any other, it symbolized her mother's life. Courage. Elaine shook out the pillows and piled them up again, sank her head into the softness and turned toward the wall. "Mother darling," she sobbed with her eyes shut tight, "if only I were brave." It seemed then, in that quietness, that the days of her mother's life were like a path that only now, in newer vision, the daughter could see. X ok Ox "THE first was a day in summer. There was a deep canyon in the cedared hills and far up the slope against a wall of rock, a stream bubbled out and filled a little pond with clear water that trickled slowly down the ravine in a bed of moss and ferns. A boy, perhaps four, a chap with freckled face and mended overalls, bent over the pond, carefully dipping water into a bucket. Then the mother reached down and with her strong arms lifted up the bucket and poured the water into the barrel. She set the bucket back down and the boy dipped again. Then the mother turned to look at her other children. "Be careful, Elaine, don't drop the baby. You know it's quite a piece down that hill." Elaine looked up, sat further back on the rock, and braced her feet 302 into the ground. "I'm holding him plenty tight, and when I get tired T'll let Susan take a turn." Susan peeped out from behind a willow bush, her arms full of late blue flowers. "Look, Mama, what do you think Daddy will say when we get home with flowers?" She held them out and the mother gathered up a handful of wet moss and bound it around the stems. "Now they'll keep fresh until we get home." She turned back to the spring and again lifted the brimming bucket. The water splashed down with a delightful sound. "All hands busy," she called, and Susan and the boy pushed with her until they got the barrel to the edge of an inclined plank that connected the hillside with the wagon box. Then slowly up the plank they rolled the slippery barrel, the mother walking along on one side and the children on the other. The mother climbed into the wagon, turned the barrel upright again and pushed it back into the wagon box against the other full barrels. Her arms moved quickly, the smooth muscles straining. Finally she pulled the plank up into the wagon and fastened up the end gate. She untied the horses from a cedar tree and hitched them up, clipping the tugs expertly. She lifted the children up front and sat with Elaine and the baby, Susan and the boy, in the hard spring seat. Tightly she grasped the lines in her left hand and clung to the brake with her right, and they slid slowly down the steep road, listening to the water swishing about in the barrels. Finally the wagon rumbled out of the hills and down the road that skirted the fields. Yellow as sunlight was the wheat land with the grain tall and ripened. They could see a binder moving around the level patch with its wide bars moving like RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE wings. They could see where the pale stubble joined the gold of the proud uncut wheat heads. The binder stopped and a man stood up and waved his hand and the mother waved back again. She was beautiful, sitting there on the high spring seat with afternoon sun on her face and her brown hands holding the lines, driving toward a log house that almost hid itself among the cedars on a rocky knoll. * OK "THERE was a winter night, years later, when they lived in town, and there was a blazing fire on the hearth. Elaine and Susan were head over heels in school work and the biggest boy lay sprawled out on the floor playing checkers with himself. The little boy, with a chubby finger pointing to the words, moved his lips slowly, delving into the mysteries of a primer. There was a baby asleep in the next room with the door wedged open a little so that the mother might hear any sound that came. One could tell the mother was tired, for occasionally she laid down her sewing and leaned back against the chair and closed her eyes. When the firelight fell in just the right place one could see that her hair was getting gray. Elaine turned from the table and saw the glow on her mother's hair. Suddenly she put her arms around her mother's neck and kissed her face. The girl, in her teens now, felt a deep and strange fear, for the mother was getting old and the gray hair of her temples lay soft and smooth above a network of fine wrinkles. "Ts it my new apron you're making now, Mama?" Elaine asked, touching the fine white lace. "That's right. It will be a little differént from the one you have on." Elaine was dressed in a plain little dark wool frock made over from her - TESTAMENT OF MOTHERHOOD mother's last-winter dress, but the plainness of it was glorified by a white apron of finest dimity trimmed with lace insertions. The mother wanted the girls to look pretty and dainty and the aprons were inexpensive—except for time and the mother's eyesight. Elaine held the new apron up against her and touched it tenderly. "Thanks, Mama. Everyone thinks I have the prettiest clothes." Then she looked down at her mother's rough red hands and wondered how they could make a thing so fine and lovely as a white apron adorned with lace. What a quiet courage mother has, Elaine thought, what loving hands. A a HERE came a day in June, fragrant with roses and soft with leaves and wind. It was graduation day. The college building, old, trimmed with ivy, had opened wide doors for the day. The mother, in a crowd of other mothers, made her way up the unfamiliar stairs. She looked timidly into the deserted classrooms as she passed and wondered how Elaine had spent the precious hours in these rooms. The mother wished, deep in her heart, that she might have gone to college and learned more abcut poetry and music and painting, and even science, perhaps. The world, she thought, must be very wide, and she had seen only a little niche of it. A niche bounded by home, husband, children. But the mother was proud of Elaine and she forgot that her own suit was old and mended and that her hat was two seasons out of date, her shoes polished and repolished many times. She forgot these things because Elaine had a new dress of finest organdy, hemstitched in rows of narrow tucks, and Elaine had silk stockings, webby fine, and white slip- 303 pers—lovely clothes to go with her black college robe. The mother hurried into the assembly hall and down the aisle. She found a seat near the front where she could see Elaine. There the girl sat in the center of the big stage, her gold-colored hair beautifully coiled under the black cap, her dress gleaming white where the folds of the robe fell away. After the band music and after the singing, the mother heard a clear young voice speaking, breaking the silence of a June morning. Elaine was valedictorian. "We face the future,'' the young voice said, "but we cannot forget that our tomorrow is based upon the yesterdays in which our parents worked and sacrificed to open for us a larger world. I stand here today because they, my father and mother, struggled bravely that my life might be made broad... Because of their courage I am here today..." Tears slowly dropped on the mother's pale cheeks, but she held her head high. * * * HERE came a night deep in November with rain and wind and darkness outside. Elaine lay upon a high hard bed in a clean white room. Dimly she heard voices, footsteps. Dimly she saw white figures passing back and forth. But there was a wall of pain between her and reality. Again and again sharp stabs convulsed her muscles, shot through her body with insistent terror. Tears brimmed her eyes and she cried out, "Mother... Mother..." Then soft lips touched her forehead. Unbelievably cool hands caught her own fevered ones and held them still.