Relief Society Singing Mothers, Choristers, Husbands and Children, we salute you! You have made history for our Society! Nor would this tribute be complete without mentioning the enthusiastic, talented chief conductor, Charlotte O. Sackett, and the  pianist, Alta Burton Cassity, who so. Efficiently supported Sister Sackett. Every member of the chorus will carry home a delightful memory of the contact made with Professor Frank Asper, who has been tireless in his effort to make each selection a success. Our earnest desire is that you will carry the high standard you have attained into your Wards, Stakes and Missions, ever remembering that your strength is in the nobility of your work, the worthiness of your purpose. These will give power of patience and assurance of victory. The people of the world need song, the kind that will bring peace and establish friendliness. The creation was not complete until there was music — it is necessary today. The following verse is from an author unknown to me: "When the earth was finished and fashioned well There was never a musical note to tell How glad God was, save the voice of the rain,. The sea and the wind o'er the lonely plain, And the rivers among the hills. And so God made the wondrous birds, For a choir of joy transcending words, That the world might know and understand That music and harmony can mend -the spirit's hurts and ills." There can be no higher mission than to bring peace and harmony into the world, then all hearts will join in the great chorus, "How Lovely are the Messengers." > a atl SINGING MOTHERS By Maud Frazer Jackson To all heroic souls high praise, All those who serve their brothers; But when the great you crown with bays Forget not Singing Mothers; The kind, the patient mothers Whose hours of toil are long; Who trust in God though dark the skies, Keep smiling in their children's eyes And sing a cheery song. No organ in cathedral vast, No trained and vested choir, When doubt my soul has overcast, Can faith anew inspire Like mother's tender singing That banished childhood's tears. ° Sweet echoes from the golden shore Sound in my heart forevermore, The Music of the Spheres. Unlettered in theology And isms, this, the other, Undoubted is God's Word by me— I had a singing mother; Who came through tribulations With heart still brave and strong; Who proved to me from day to day That help is given when we pray And Faith fills life with song. —Selected.