Vol. XXV MAY, 1938 No. 5
Editorials
Merited Honor
For the purpose of honoring and uplifting motherhood the second Sunday in May is designated Mother's Day by national act. The observance of a national Mother's Day is to be commended. Prompting expressions of love and kindness this day has brought joy to mother hearts the nation over. Helping children, young and old, to a realization of their indebtedness and responsibility to "the best mother who ever lived" has expanded the joy and enlarged the characters of thousands.
People generally like to be honored but in motherhood as well as in any situation let us be honored because of genuine merit. There are as many degrees of excellence in motherhood as in any other thing in life. It is a great privilege to mother children whether they be ours by birth or circumstance. With mothering are born love, hope, pride, ambition, and many other glorious attributes of character. With privilege comes responsibility. In mothering, that responsibility is to intelligently rear our children, wisely guiding and directing them toward honorable living.
Intelligent mothering is certainly more than highly emotionalized mothering which showers love and adoration upon the child to the point of overindulgence; mothering which so sacrifices itself to the weakness of the child and justifies and upholds him when he errs; mothering which so sacrifices itself to the child that he never learns the meaning of cooperation and unselfishness. Intelligent mothering realizes that the child's future to a large extent is measured in the mother's ability to influence and direct wisely. It establishes in the home worthy ideals and standards; it teaches faith; it trains the child to conquer self; it teaches the gospel of work; it develops honesty and loyalty. It provides opportunity for the best development of the child physically, mentally, morally and spiritually. It constantly holds the child up to his best efforts.
The genuine mother reaches beyond her own, sensing her responsibility to all children. Wherever a child is found cold, hungry, in need of attention or care of any kind she renders loving and intelligent service. Mother's Day is a good day for taking stock, for reflection upon the ambitions we hold for our children and for all children, and also for consideration of the way in which we are performing our tasks as mothers. No greater honor can come to any woman than to rear a child to manhood or womanhood, reflecting her teachings in worth while and honorable living. No greater tribute does the mother ask.