The Strength and Might of You Bertha A. Kleinman Perhaps you have not done your best, Your utmost or your all Perhaps life has denied the test By which you stand or fall; Perhaps the fortitude you lack, The impetus you rue, Needs but the spur of handicap To put you "smiling through." Perhaps convention plies its toll And customs rule between, Till all the beauty of your soul Has never yet been seen. It may be you depreciate The daily tasks you do The little duties that create The strength and might of you. Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman Cache and Logan Stakes. Social Service Institute: During the week beginning August 30, the Relief Societies of Cache and Logan stakes jointly held an interesting institute of social work. The attendance was limited to presiding officers and social service aids of Relief Society stake and ward organizations, stake presidency, high councilmen and members of bishoprics. The course comprised lectures, required readings and discussions of modern methods of family welfare work, and how these methods are being applied in Relief Society activities. On the opening day of the institute the workers were most eager to talk about particular problems that confronted them in their own localities. Toward the close, when general plans and ideals had been considered, many of their questions had been answered, and visions of better health programs, budgets, adequate material relief, and final independence for needy families were filling their minds. Among the brethren visiting the sessions were: Joseph E. Cardon, president of Cache stake; and a number of high councilmen and members of bishoprics. Class work was conducted by Annie D. Palmer and Anna Laura Stohl of the Family Welfare department, General Board, Salt Lake City. The workers of both stakes were enthusiastic and keen in interest through the entire course. A beautifully arranged dinner and social at the Girl's Canyon Home was one of the pleasing features near the close of the profitable week. Liberty Stake.: This picture presents the stage setting and characters in a pageant entitled, "The Dispensations of the Gospel," which was presented by the Thirty-first ward Relief Society of Liberty stake in their ward chapel. The pageant portrayed beautifully the truths of the Father's plan for the redemption of his children, as set forth in the theological lesson. It was presented by members of the Society, or their families, and was under the direction of Mrs. Verna W. Goddard. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 35 Franklin Stake. On September 4th the Franklin stake Relief Society held; a very pleasant and profitable teachers' convention. The attendance was very satisfactory, there being 185 officers and teachers present. President Veroka G. Nash gave a splendid talk on "The Value of the Visiting Teacher to the Relief Society," and Feneretta Mecham very ably gave The Value of the Relief Society to the Visiting Teacher." Demonstrations were given by members of the visiting teachers of the wards, to show the spirit with which visits should be made to the homes. These demonstrations were as follows: A regular visit of the Relief Society teachers calling upon a member of the Society; visiting teachers calling upon a stranger moving into the ward; visiting teachers calling upon non-members of our Church; visiting teachers calling upon a mother who is not particularly interested in -Relief Society work. Musical numbers were also furnished by members of the ward Relief Societies. Experiences of a Relief Society visiting teacher the old and new methodswere entertaingly told by Sarah J. Alder. After the close of this meeting the members of the Franklin stake Relief Society Board entertained those present with games, readings, music and luncheon. A tribute to Relief Society workers was paid by Louise M. Cole, and Lillie Farnes of Whitney reciprocated with a tribute to the stake board. Honorable mention was made of many of those present who had served in Relief Society work for many years, and among those was Mrs. Margaret Hall of Fairview, who had served forty-nine years. Recently the State Health Department held two clinics in this stake. Dr. Fouch, assisted by Dr. Rich, Miss Ewen and the local Relief Society, conducted the work. The outlying wards cf Franklin and Weston were given the preference, since all wards could not be visited this time. In Franklin there were 46 -and in Weston 39 children under school age who were among those examined. Bear Lake Stake. Bear Lake stake has been working out a schedule for health work. A nurse from the Idaho State Health Association, working in the county, gave a series of lectures on home nursing under the supervision of the stake Relief Society board. A clinic for mothers and for children of pre-school age was also held. Tintic Stake. The Tintic stake teachers' convention was held September 12, 1926, at Eureka L. D. S. Recreation hall, with President Elizabeth 
 Boswell presiding and conducting. More than one hundred were in attendance. After the address of welcome by the president, the following program was given: a one act play, "Out of Work," was presented by Eureka ward; duet and chorus, "Gentle Words," Mammoth ward members; demonstration, "How to Introduce the Teachers' Topic in the Home,' Verda ward; duet, "Come Saints and Sing a Joyful Song," Eureka ward; closing remarks by Counselor Louie Lee. The annual temple excursion of the Tintic stake was held September 6-7, 1926, at the Manti temple. Tintic stake Relief workers contributed $54.00, in addition to 176 days. A stake outing was held August 17, at which all organizations combined in carrying out the program, which included swimming at the Arrowhead Pool, luncheon and games at Payson Park. Over four hundred attended the gathering. The stake Relief Society officers had charge of the luncheon. The Tintic stake are continuing their health conferences, which have been very successful. Bear River Stake. During the conference convention of the Bear River stake, August 21 and 22, 1926, an exhibit was held, under the direction of the Relief Society stake board, of articles made during the summer months by the Relief Societies of the stake, in accordance with instructions from the General Board at the April Conference. Hundreds of beautiful and useful articles were on display, showing what can be done by the cooperation and efforts of the sisters. Following this exhibit bazaars were held in the different wards, and the articles disposed of. The stake board was very proud of the splendid exhibit, and grateful to all the members for the beautiful work they did in connection with it. Sunday evening, September 12, 1926, the members of the stake Relief Society Board, together with their husbands, met at the home of their esteemed president, Mrs. Margaret W. Manning, and presented her with a beautiful "Friendship Quilt" in honor of her birthday. The quilt top consists of sixty-two embroidered blocks, and was made by members of the board and other friends. A pleasant evening was spent, and a program of music and readings enjoyed by all present. Montpelier Stake. Montpelier stake has had a very successful year. During February and March four district teachers' conventions were held, 'with an attendance of 337 members, 6 high council members, and 3 bishops. The outline prepared by the General Board, with several musical numbers, was carried out, after which a get-  acquainted social and refreshments were enjoyed. During July NOTES FROM THE FIELD O77 and August ward