The British Centennial Conference By Ramona W. Cannon
FOR the Saints of London, the British Centennial began with the arrival of President Grant from the Continent on July 19th. As the train steamed in to Liverpool Street station at nine-thirty P.M., they were a-quiver with excitement, and there was a rush toward the President. He greeted all, was interviewed by reporters, and joined the group in singing, "We Thank Thee, O God, For A Prophet". In Relief Society next evening, as the members worked on costumes for the pageant, each told what it had meant to her to shake the hand of the Lord's servant.
The following day, July 20, President Grant drove to Liverpool, visiting Sulgrave Manor, the home of the Washingtons. There he dedicated the newly acquired chapel, just one hundred years from the day when the Mormon Elders first landed in the city. The Tatler Newsreel took a moving picture of President Grant, President Cannon and the Millennial Chorus outside the building, and displayed it in their cinema chain.
The evening of July 21, the President dedicated the Burnley Chapel. New arrivals in London were President and Sister Clark, Sister Rose Bennett and Sister Vida Clawson's party, including Sister Ruth May Fox, with her Counselors, Sisters Lucy Grant Cannon and Clarissa Beesley.
On the 22nd, President Grant dedicated the Bradford Chapel, afterwards returning to London, where President and Sister Lyman entertained for him on July 24, at the Royal Automobile Club. Many distinguished guests from Salt Lake, also from London attended, including the American Ambassador, Mr. Robert Bingham. Reminiscences of Pioneer days and experiences were given, which were of great interest to the English visitors.
On the following day, Sunday, President Grant dedicated the Southwest London Branch, "Ravenslea", in the afternoon, and the North London Chapel in the evening. President Clark spoke at both meetings, also Presidents Cannon and Brown. The chapels were filled to capacity, and the meeting proved, in each case, a great spiritual feast.
IT was a fair day, the River Ribble flowed gently to the sea, and the restful green of field and wood made a fine setting for the Centenary of the first baptism. The sunshine was a delightful contrast to the continued rain of the past fortnight. Seven coaches rolled into Preston from Rochdale with banners on their sides and bearing some two hundred missionaries and Saints. They awakened much attention as they passed through the Lancashire towns.
The pilgrimage began at Vauxhall Chapel. The trustees kindly opened it for our visit. We imagined we saw the black-eyed Heber C. Kimball preaching from its elevated pulpit. By foot we went on to the site of the Cockpit where the early meetings and first conference were held. Thence we proceeded afoot to St. Wilfred Street, where occurred the terrific manifestation of evil spirits on the morning of the first baptism. Continuing, the growing crowd marched to the Ribble with the Millennial Chorus at the head singing marching songs. Assembling on the right bank, over 500 people took part in the open air service. The theme of the meeting was the glorious event that occurred in the waters at our feet a century ago. They sat on the grass in a great circle and listened to President Grant and others, and watched him unveil a bronze plaque, which will be placed in the wall of the North London Chapel. One of the interesting features was presenting descendants of those who participated a century ago— Elders John F. Kimball and Paul C. Palmer, great great grandsons respectively of Heber C. Kimball who officiated, and Ann Elizabeth Walmsley, one of the nine who were baptized in that first ceremony, Elder Fred H. Thompson, his mother, Mrs. Lillian M. Thompson, and his sister Mrs. Elsa T. Peterson, granddaughter and great grandchildren of Orson Hyde, and Elders Albert Z. Richards, Richards G. Smith and Briant G. Smith, great grandsons of Willard Richards. The latter two are grandsons of President Grant and also of President Joseph F. Smith.
SINCE accommodations for the conference were not available in Preston, the gathering was held in Rochdale, about thirty miles distant. Two years ago the sentiment toward the Mormons there was so unfavorable that the newspapers refused to accept paid advertisements for our conference meetings. A missionary baseball team was organized and won the championship for Northern England. Through them the citizens became friendly. The sportsmanship, clean living, and proselyting of these young Elders has produced a host of friends. Hotel accommodations are limited there, but people opened their homes to the visitors in friendly hospitality.
Inside the Rochdale Chapel were arranged fine exhibits of Primary, Gleaner, Bee-Hive, and Genealogical work. One room was devoted to Relief Society handwork. On exhibition were elaborate quilts, counterpanes, luncheon cloths, pillow cases, sideboard mats, embroidered and trimmed hand-made lace, knitted and crocheted work. On the walls were illustrated posters demonstrating Relief Society Health Lessons on the prevention of accidents in the home; a roll of honor of Relief Society members for 10 consecutive years; those who were charter members of Relief Society organizations; mothers of five or more children; and women who have suffered persecution for their religion. On exhibition was a book of wholesome and inexpensive recipes sent in by members. The cover was artistically designed by one of the Saints. On Saturday morning, after examining the exhibits and visiting with each other, the Saints met in 633 the Chapel at 10:00 o'clock. Short but inspiring talks were given by Sisters Vida Clawson, Laura Nicholson, Clarissa Beesley, Lucy G. Cannon, Ruth May Fox, and Presidents Cannon and Lyman, and President Grant. At 1:30 the Gleaner choruses and the M Men achieved by performing - in song and speech. During the late afternoon there was a league game of baseball, our Rochdale M Men team playing the Caledonians. President Grant pitched the first ball, and he and President Clark sat on the players' bench in the sunshine and enjoyed watching the Elders win the game. "THE Rochdale town hall is said to be one of the most beautiful in Britain. It was an appropriate place to present "The Everlasting Doors," a pageant produced by Sister Marie Waldram, Elder Richard S. Tanner and Elder Robert S. Stevens. It was an ambitious spectacle, with one hundred ROCHDALE TOWN HALL 634 and twenty-six missionaries, Saints and friends in the cast. The poetic lines of the pageant were read beautifully by two English women and two English men. The richly colored costumes were made with much economy under the direction of Sister Agnes P. Wallace, by members of various Relief Societies. More than eight hundred people sat in the audience, while an equal number were turned away. The silence among the spectators was absolute as the Biblical and Latter Day scenes of solemn splendor unrolled before their eyes, leaving in their hearts a direct message. The disappointment among those turned away was so keen that it was decided to repeat the pageant Sunday night, following the evening service, to those who had not seen it. Again the hall was crowded and many turned away. The Sunday meetings totaled nine full hours. The hall was full for the testimony meeting at 9:00 o'clock. This was the Saints' opportunity to express themselves, the missionaries and authorities all keeping their seats. Many remarkable testimonies were borne of the unusual ways in which the Gospel had come to people. At all the remaining sessions guards had to be placed at the door to keep the people out after the hall was filled although it held nearly a thousand. At the eleven o'clock session, the Sunday School and Relief Society were emphasized; in the afternoon the M. I. A. Cause, Saints and visitors were uplifted by the talks of the Church authorities. In these meetings President Clark spoke of the lofty ideals and conceptions of Mormonism, and called attention to the necessity of centering one's interest and love on the Gospel, not as worshipers of men. He counselled people to live every moment of their lives so that they are doing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE nothing which will destroy the spiritual communication between them and God. He said he would reverse the opinion sometimes prevalent that Mormonism was a religion which only the ignorant embraced. Really people need to be intelligent to embrace it because it appeals to the heart and mind. The ritual is simple, not like that of many other churches, which appeals to eye and ear. President Grant suggested that each man should turn into a faultfinding critic who should hunt and examine and probe diligently for faults... But only in himself. In planning one's life, one should seek to find out what the Lord desires and make that the important thing, he advised. He also warned the Priesthood against exercising unrighteous dominion, quoting in fine voice and without hesitation the 121st Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, Particularly he stressed the two spirits always striving within us, one telling us to continue with our labors and do our utmost, and the other trying to dissuade us from doing our duties. At the close of his speech, clusters of roses were presented to President Grant by three Latter-day Saint young women; red roses symbolizing one for each year of his youth; pink roses, one for each year of his Apostleship; and white roses, one for each year of his Presidency. With the public address system 1423 persons heard the testimonies of the authorities. On Monday morning Sisters Fox, Cannon, and Beesley met with the Bee-Keepers of the Mission and gave many valuable suggestions, while President Grant addressed the missionaries. In the general meeting following, the Sisters were again heard from, Sister Rose Bennett, Sister Lucy Cannon, and Sister Clarissa Beesley, all of whom bore beautiful THE BRITISH CENTENNIAL CONFERENCE testimonies. Three Primary children gave short talks and President Grant sang. Music was furnished throughout the meetings by the Millennial Chorus (of missionaries), the combined choirs of the Mission under the direction of Doctor Ray M. Russell, the Gleaner Choruses, the Primary and Sunday School children, and Brother George D. Pyper. He and Brother Arthur Winter were among the speakers, Between sessions, the large group had luncheon and tea together. A delightful program was worked out for each meal. ON Spotland Football grounds Monday afternoon, a new phase of Mormonism's plan of living was shown. Hundreds of investigators had attended our services and learned our spiritual message; they had seen "The Everlasting Doors" and been thrilled by our pageantry, heard the M Men speeches and Gleaner Girl singing and felt our approach to art; they looked over the Treasures of Truth, Book of Remembrance and Relief Society and Primary handiwork exhibits and sensed our feeling for history and our culture. Now they were to see the physical side. The third annual field meet of the M. I. A. Was being held. As an opening to it a most beautiful ceremony took place. From a high reviewing stand on the green field, President Grant, the distinguished visitors and Mission authorities sat and watched a great formation of hundreds of Saints, missionaries and friends off in a corner of the pitch. Suddenly they began to march and sing. "Over hill over dale, ever on the upward trail" rang 635 out. By twos they came past the stand and out in front marched up the farther leg of an elongated "M". Following its lines, singing as they went, they completed it as well as "I” And "A". The living M. I. A. -then faced the stand. An Englishman stepped out with a silken Union Jack, marched to the platform and presented it to President Grant. Then a Welshman presented one to President and Sister Lyman, a Scotsman in kilts to Superintendent Pyper, a northern Irish lass to President Fox and one from southern Ireland to President and Sister Cannon. Other presentations were made by groups, and responses given. "We Thank Thee, Oh God, For A Prophet" and "Carry On" were sung. The field meet was by districts, M Men taking part in regular events, Gleaners and Bee-Hive girls running in shorter races. A dance at the Carlton closed the four day conference. Features were exhibitions of country dancing by the Bristol and Scottish Districts, the latter in kilts, and a grand march where in sixteens the whole formation sang "Carry On". Then handshaking and goodbyes, and away to Ireland, Scotland, Wales and the counties of England the happy groups departed. President Grant declared it one of the finest gatherings he had ever attended. To the Saints his presence made it perhaps the best they will ever attend. Blessed by perfect weather, blessed by unusual enthusiasm and joyfulness, and blessed especially by an outpouring of the good Spirit the unforgettable Centennial Conference came to an end.