IN BRIGHTON By Isabelle B. McKenzie Have you ever been in Brighton When the morn was rosy red? The leaves with dew were sparkling The birds sang overhead; Each cloud was bathed in crimson To greet the newborn day As the sun came up in splendor To chase them all away. Have you ever been in Brighton When the sun beat in the glade? You took your book and blanket To sneak off to the shade— Your book was soon neglected There was so much to view, The mountains high—the squirrels—the birds And Brighton's sky of blue. Have you ever been in Brighton As the sun sank in the west? And gazed from a friendly porch As you sat down to rest; A calm came stealing o'er you With the murmur of the pine— Oh, it's nice to be in Brighton At any sort of time. Notes to Theological Department IN addition to the citations quoted in Theology Lesson III, the following passage well illustrates the proper attitude in Relief Society work: "Then said he also to him that bade him, When thou makest a dinner or a supper, call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, neither thy kinsmen, nor thy rich neighbors; lest they also bid thee again, and a recompense be made thee, "But when thou makest a feast, call the poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind. "And thou shalt be blessed; for they cannot recompense thee, for thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just."—-Luke 14:12, 13, 14. Work and Business Department SINCE bread forms a large and important part of the diet of low-income families, and children of school age who carry their lunches, some suggestions might be helpful to the woman who makes her own or buys it at the corner grocery. The keeping qualities depend on various things such as the ingredients, the weight or size of loaf, length of time of fermentation or baking. A medium sized loaf baked a longer time at a medium temperature will keep much better and be less likely to mold than a larger one baked a shorter time at a higher temperature. Sliced bakery bread is convenient, but it dries and molds quicker than the solid loaf, due to more exposed surfaces to moisture and contaminated air. For this and other sanitary reasons it should be handled as little as possible, and the Field lightly wrapped after it has thoroughly cooled. Bread well baked, kept in a clean, well aired receptacle in a cool place, will keep from three to eight days and be fresh and palatable. Moisture and heat together with too close and heavy wrapping causes much of the mold, off flavor and odor found in bread. Literary Department HE subject of just what actually were the facts in the life of Sacagawea, is a matter of debate. There are many conflicting opinions held in reference to whether or not Sacagawea died a young woman, as Mrs. Hueston in The Star of the West portrays, or whether she lived to be an old woman and returned to the Shoshone tribe. This will always remain a matter of doubt. The opinions of one seem to be as well founded as another. We are giving an extract from Mrs. Hueston's letter to the writer of our literary lessons, as we feel that it states her position as fairly as it can be given, and she seems to be justified in the view which she takes of the matter. After all, the important factor is, that Sacagawea was a real heroine, and that she rendered magnificent service in the expedition which meant so much to the United States. As women we honor her for what she was—a noble soul. "I feel it is only fair to call attention to the fact that up until very recently, it has been argued, rather brilliantly, that Sacagawea returned to her own tribe; never went to St. Louis; did not send her children down to Clark and lived to a ripe old age and died on the reservation. Dr.