REMARKS OF PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT AT THE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, SATURDAY, APRIL 3, 1937
THIS is a very remarkable and wonderful audience for a week day. I am just wondering if we will be able to compare with it in our General Conference meetings Monday and Tuesday, at which time not only one organization, but the entire Church will be interested in the conference.
AS you have heard me say many times, for that which I have accomplished in the battle of life I give credit to my mother first and foremost. In my observations I have found that many men who have been successful in the battle of life are indebted principally to the example, the energy, and the untiring labors of faithful mothers. My mother having been all in all to me, my father having died when I was only nine days old, I owe her a debt of gratitude beyond all the ability with which God has endowed me to express it. In my youthful days many times I shed tears because of the lack of advice, association, and love of a father, such as I saw extended to boys by their fathers. But take it all in all, I am grateful beyond expression for the marvelous example of my mother who devotedly spent thirty-odd years of her life as the president of the 13th Ward Relief Society, and the only reason that she retired from that position even then—which by the way was at her own request—was that her hearing had almost completely failed her. I have sometimes attributed my ability to speak in this building so that the people could hear, before we had any amplifiers here and when it was considered a great task to stand in this auditorium and address the people for fear they could not hear you—as I say I have sometimes attributed my capacity along this line to the fact that I had to throw my voice at my mother in such a way that she could hear me.
IT is a wonderful thing to be connected with any institution that is built upon service, upon giving, and not receiving. I read a book, "The Return to Religion," by an eminent writer, a psychologist, who had been an unbeliever but who returned to religion because of giving so much scriptural advice to people who came to him for instruction. There has been nothing truer written than the statement, "It is more blessed to give than to receive." I congratulate the good sisters of the Relief Society that they are going to make a specialty—judging from what I read in the newspapers, both in the Deseret News and the Tribune—of trying to train people to do things, and to do them for themselves instead of expecting somebody else to do them for them. We as a people have the credit of taking care of our people as no other Church has done. I remember that one of my nearest and dearest friends, not of our faith, was accidentally killed at the depot by a switch engine, and some months after his death I attended a social gathering of friends at the home of his widow. My wife and I and some of our daughters were present. During the evening his widow asked me to step across the room and sit down on a lounge with her. She said: "Mr. Grant I am going to tell you something that I believe will please you. Just a short time before Dave was killed he said to me, 'Kate, you know we have lived among these Mormons for twenty-five long years, they are, I believe, the very best people in all the world. They take better care of their sick, the Relief Society sisters look after the sick and the poor with the help of the Bishop of the Ward, through the donations to the Bishop and the Relief Society. They do not hire some high pressure salesman to raise a hurrah, and induce people to pay money into their organization, thirty to fifty per cent of all the money that is gathered being used for expenses. All of the money which goes to the Relief Society funds and the Bishop's funds for the poor is distributed to the needy. So really and truly, after twenty-five years of residence among this people, I have come to the conclusion that they are the best people to look after their sick and their poor, and they are really and truly one great family of brothers and sisters. I don't want to break your heart, you are a devout Catholic, and your parents and your grandparents were Catholics, but, really, Kate, I would join them were it not for the fact that it would break your heart. I took you all the way to Rome to see the Pope, and it took a lot of red tape and difficulty for even a millionaire to get to see the Pope, but the humblest washwoman in the Mormon Church can get to see the President of  
NO truer statement was ever made than the one attributed to Josh Billings: "Never judge a man by his relatives, he cannot help them, they are crowded onto him; but judge him by the company he keeps, for he picks his own." To my mind, there is no gathering among the Latter-day Saints where the company is any finer and where there is a more intelligent and greater desire for the welfare of the people than when our Relief Society sisters meet together and when our young women meet together. There is a spirituality, there is a humility, there is a genuine love in the hearts of women, greater on an average by far than that which we find in the hearts of men.
I am very grateful indeed that you good sisters are going to try to educate people to take care of themselves, but it is only fair for me to say to you that there are a number of people you are not going to be able to change. There are many people who are born tired and never get rested. There are any number of people who just naturally have no conception of self-independence. Our country today is in a terrible condition on that account principally. When I stop to realize that I once stood and counted deliberately, while watching men labor, one, two, three, four, and then ten times four,—between two shovelfuls of dirt, and then the shovel was only half full. I can not help thinking of what I was told, I think it was by Brother George Romney. He said his father was superintendent of public works, and he said he could pick out the men who were working by the day on the temple block cutting rocks, also in the great, long carpenter shop, (I think fully 300 feet long on the north part of this block). He said, "The way I can tell whether they are hired by the day or by the job is that they are hammering, by the day—by the day—by the day; and the others, by the job, by the job, by the job, job, job; by the job, by the job, by the job, job, job."
Now. You have got a job on your hands and a big one. It is going to require more than educating the tired people if you get them to do their full share in the Relief Society. Your hearts will ache lots of times, because of your failure to change some people who, as I say, were born tired and never got rested.
REFERRING to that wonderful mother of mine, I remember that one day we had at least a half dozen, if not more, buckets on the floor, "catching the rain that came through the roof. It was raining very heavily, and Bishop Edwin D. Woolley came into the house, and he said: "Why, widow Grant, this will never do. I shall take some of the money from the Fast offerings, to put a new roof on this house." "Oh, no you won't," said mother, "no relief money will ever put a roof on my house. I have sewing here"—she supported herself and me with a needle and thread for many years; later with a Wheeler and Wilcox sewing machine. I had to be mighty careful not to take hold of a thread and pull it, or I might have my clothes fall off; they had not learned how to fasten the stitches of that machine. They later made sewing machines that overcame this difficulty. Mother said, "When I get through with this sewing that I am now doing I will buy some shingles and patch the holes, and this house will take care of me until my son gets to be a man and builds a new one for me." The Bishop went away and said he was very sorry for Widow Grant, that if she waited for that boy to build a house she would never have one, for he was the laziest boy in the whole Thirteenth Ward. He went on to tell that I wasted my time throwing a ball across the fence behind the house hour after hour, day after day, and week after week, at his adobe barn. Thank the Lord for a mother who was a general as well as a Latter-day Saint, who realized that it was a remarkable and splendid thing to encourage a boy to do something besides perhaps milking cows if he was on a farm, if he had ambitions along athletic lines. Being raised as an only child I was more or less like a hothouse plant, and when I joined the baseball club my official name was "sissy." The boys would say, "Throw it here, sissy." Mother by this time was keeping boarders for a living and I used to shine their shoes. I shined forty shoes and got a dollar, and I bought a baseball, and I told mother I would live to play in the nine that won the championship of the territory, and she encouraged me. Many a night she has tied up my arm with wet cloths because it ached so badly after throwing that ball at Bishop Woolley's barn. I did what I said I would do, and played in the nine that won the championship of the territory. I have never played a game since.
WE as a people are set upon a hill, so to speak. We have a great work to perform, and we are performing it splendidly, and we are performing it—that is, the men who hold the priesthood and occupy positions in the Church—by the help of the Relief Society and our young people who are faithful and true. Just think of it! Out of all the Stakes in the Church, more than eighty have reached the limit we placed of a dollar a year per capita Fast Day donation. That is a remarkable thing, and we are going to take care of our own, and we are going to instill in the minds of the people as far as possible that statement by Brigham Young, that we kept for weeks and months at the head of the Deseret News editorial column, to the effect that it was his policy not to give anybody anything unless he earned it; that people must do something to earn that which they receive. Nothing destroys the individuality of a man, a woman, or a child as much as the failure to be self-reliant. In this book to which I have referred, written by a psychologist, the author says he pities the children of the rich, because they have no chance to develop themselves, that they are very greatly handicapped, and say "I do not have to," "I can do things, and I propose to do things," is what we ought to get into the minds of our children. You faithful, willing workers, inspire your children with the thought that there is nothing that counts so much as actions. We find recorded in the twenty-ninth chapter of Alma that the Lord grants unto men according to the desires of their hearts, whether it be joy or sorrow, life or death; and we should have our hearts set upon doing those things that are pleasing to the Lord.
I remember hearing Brigham Young praise Edward Hunter for his great interest in taking care of the poor as the Presiding Bishop of the Church. I remember on one occasion his getting rid of a chronic beggar by keeping me in his office two solid hours. I was talking to him when the sister came into the office, and I started to get up to go out. He said: 'Keep your seat, keep your seat." This woman was asking for some help. He would say, "Oh, yes, yes, yes." Then he turned around and talked to me, I started to go, and he said again, "Keep your seat, keep your seat." Finally the woman left and he said, "Wear them out, Brother Grant," and then he let me go. He kept me there two hours to talk to me in order to wear the woman out. After she had gone he said: "That woman, that woman, you know she is a chronic beggar. I hate a beggar, I hate a beggar. There are the poor—the Lord's poor, and the devil's poor, and poor devils." We do not want to be taking care of any poor devils, we want to be taking care of the Lord's poor, and we want to take care of them to the very best of our ability, without the slightest feeling on their part that they are in the class with those who are not worthy of help. Those who are worthy, the poor of the Lord, as Brother Hunter said, we want to take care of. Like Bishop Hunter, I love the Lord's poor, and we should love our fellow men, and the Lord will bless us in all our helpful efforts.
I AM sure that we are going to succeed. I believe that my friend, David Wood, told the truth when he said we are like one great family of brothers and sisters. After he had been dead a year I asked permission to have the work done for him in the temple. I wrote a letter to his widow, thinking it would be far better than to ask by word of mouth for permission to do the work for this man. I felt that the wife would have mighty hard work telling me that I could not do that work when she had already acknowledged to me that he wanted to join the Church and would have done so except for respect for her feelings, I felt that sooner or later she would come and give me that permission, which she eventually did. It was some months before she came, however. I do not know whether or not she had a struggle making up her mind to say yes. I had the pleasure of doing the Temple work for my dear friend. Years later she was in California and was very sick. I tried to make arrangements to go and do my very best to convert her to the Gospel, so that she could be sealed to her husband. Circumstances prevented my going, and she returned and passed away. I always regretted very much that I had not had that opportunity. Finally I met President John W. Hart one day and he told me that before Mrs. Wood died she sent for his wife and begged her to do the Temple work for her and have her sealed to her husband. It was one of the joys of my life to perform the ordinance uniting those two people together for eternity.
IN all the work that we do let us not lose sight of the spiritual part of it. It seems to be the hardest thing in the world for people to grow in wealth and keep the spirit of the Gospel. A young man in California said to me: "My, I am so sorry because of the success that has attended my brother. He was making eight or ten thousand dollars a year, was a tithe-payer, a lover of the Gospel, and was doing good work here in California. He was promoted and given a position in the East at a salary of twenty thousand dollars a year, and was soon advanced to $25,000, and lo and behold, $2,500 tithing a year choked him to death spiritually. I would say he became cross-eyed spiritually, so to speak. The more he got the easier it ought to have been for him to pay his tithing if he would only look at what was left. You know bankers see people's statements. I know one man who earned $45,000, and his tithing was only $600. His heart should have expanded with gratitude beyond expression when he looked at $40,500 which would have been left after paying an honest tithing.
LET us cultivate the love, of God, the love of our brothers and sisters, and the love of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. I owe more to the love and teachings of my mother, to Eliza R. Snow, and the Relief Society sisters than I do to the brethren. Why? Because I grew up from a little child in the Relief Society meetings. Mother had no one to leave me with and I played on the floor in many of those meetings. Aunt Eliza used to talk to me by the hour and tell me things about the Prophet Joseph Smith and it inspired in my heart a love for him almost beyond my ability to express, in fact, my mother, Sister Snow and others inspired in me a love for the Gospel and the Prophet Joseph Smith and the Authorities of this Church by their devotion to the work of God, by their example, not by talk alone. Speaking of talking. A man delivered a very eloquent address and afterwards said to one of his friends: "What did you think of that talk of mine?" His friend said: "Well, to be perfectly frank with you, I didn't hear a thing you said." "Why? I have had very many compliments." "Well, I never hear anything you say, because your acts ring in my ears so strong that I cannot hear you talk." Let our actions count. That is the thing of real value. I appreciate my association with and my love of the women with whom my mother was associated, and I appreciated having the privilege of going out and distributing for the Relief Society things that were donated to the Society when my mother was the president of the Thirteenth Ward Relief Society. The gratitude of the honest, true Latter-day Saint who is in distress, for the help that is given to him, is one of the sweetest things that we can receive. "It is the spirit that giveth life, and the letter killeth." Let us cultivate the Spirit of God and keep his commandments.
I BELIEVE, and believe it firmly, that among all the people of the Latter-day Saints who are in financial distress there are hardly any who have been honest tithe-payers. Somehow or other God enlarges the capacity and ability of those who are liberal. "It is more blessed to give than to receive," and we want to cultivate the spirit of giving. It annoys me when men whom the Lord blesses with great abundance are not willing to do their full duty. I am in favor of trying to save the weak-kneed; I am in favor of trying to help those who need help; and I want never to forget the teachings in the Doctrine and Covenants, from start to finish. I love the revelations of God to the Prophet Joseph Smith. I love to read them and re-read them more than anything else. My heart is filled with gratitude when I realize and know that in the day in which we live a man has been inspired of God and chosen of him to organize the Church of Christ upon the earth, that I am a member in that Church, and that we have the only true Gospel upon the face of the earth, the only Gospel, as the Lord says in one of those revelations, with which he is well pleased. When I think of all the blessings that have come to me because of the Gospel, I want never to think of the things of this world, except only as secondary.
If we inspire in the hearts of the people a desire to do their duty it will be the easiest thing in the world to take care of all those who are in distress among this people. The Fast Day donation alone, if we were absolutely honest with the Lord would take care of the poor among us. You cannot get a good meal for less than ten cents, and twenty cents a month for every man, woman and child in the Church would take care of those who need care and who are not chronic beggars. I am in favor of Bishop Hunter's way with such people, of just wearing them out. I am in favor of Brigham Young's statement, "It is against my policy to give anything to a person unless he works for it."
Why do we find great walls of cobble stones picked up from the hills? Because Brigham Young would say, "Go and dig up some rocks and build a wall;" in other words, I believe he would tell them to dig a hole and then fill it up rather than have nothing to do.
May the Lord help us to grow, and may you in this additional labor that you have taken on your hands be able to convert people to take care of themselves and be blessed in doing it. But don't forget you have something to do in addition. The Lord bless you all, is my humble prayer, in the name of our Redeemer, Amen.