PEARL LEMON AND HER NINE DAUGHTERS Notes from the Field By Julia A, F, Lund—General Secretary CAKE AT REXBURG STAKE ANNUAL CELEBRATION Rexburg Stake. THE fact that rough weather and almost impassible roads cannot daunt the courage and enthusiasm of Relief Society women was borne out on Tuesday, March 16th, when nearly six hundred women gathered in the Fourth Ward Chapel at Rexburg to do honor to the anniversary of the founding of Relief Society. The happy event was under the direction of the Stake Board, with President, M. Gay Grover presiding. The hall was tastefully decorated and the Relief Society colors predominated. The first hour of the entertainment offered a musical and literary program, notable in which was an original poem by Sophie Saurey, honoring the memory of the past Relief Society Presidents of the Rexburg Stake. This was followed by the presentation of the pageant "Mothers of Men." The celebration concluded with a banquet, where a special feature was the birthday cake carrying ninety-five silver candles. It was a day of joy and renewed inspiration for Relief Society work. Bear River Stake. THE great interest that Relief Society women take in Temple work was borne out in the Bear River Stake when an excursion to the Logan Temple was sponsored by the Stake organization. A group of "Singing Mothers" from the Garland Ward furnished the singing for the morning meeting in the Temple, and this proved to be of great interest in bringing in a number of young mothers. A large and enthusiastic group participated and added much to the spirit of temple work. This enterprising Stake also held a Teachers' Convention, at which time a very delightful pageant called "Women of the Ages" was presented. This was written by Maude O. Cook, and paid a beautiful tribute to the work and importance of women in the Gospel plan. A delightful anniversary celebration was held on March 17th, and due honor paid to the annual day. A plan to repeat the district conferences which proved so profitable the previous year, is under way. All of the Wards join in supporting the NOTES FROM THE FIELD Stake in its educational and Church Security Program. Panguitch Stake. ANOTHER Stake gives evidence of the great interest in Temple work which is felt by the Relief Society organization. The Panguitch Stake has held a number of excursions during the past season, and each time there is an increased attendance. The Society chartered a bus and made it possible for anyone who wished to make the trip at a very nominal cost. While the distance to be covered is more than 120 miles to reach the temple, it has been a very rare opportunity for many of the brethren and sisters who have not had the privilege of having their temple work completed. The last excursion covered three days, but the interest held throughout and a fine spirit of faith and hope in the Gospel work was in evidence. Zion Park Stake. "THE office is in receipt of many delightful accounts of the anniversary celebration, and Zion Park is outstanding among these. Every Ward in the Stake participated in the fine celebration, which included a program of literary and dramatic effort, music and songs. An interesting feature of the occasion was that all the plays were taken from the Re- 665 lief Society Magazine. Between three hundred and four hundred peo- 'ple participated in the happy event. Granite Stake. ONE of the very beautiful events closing the regular year of Relief Society work took place in the Granite Stake Tabernacle under the direction of the Relief Society Stake Presidency and Board. A pageant "The House of Israel" was splendidly presented. The Stake Board and each of the Wards had a special division. "Israel's Heavenly Origin," was the first episode presented by the Stake Board; "Israel's Division and Captivity,' Hawthorne Ward; "Preparation of America for Israel," Lincoln Ward; "Israel's Earthly Origin," Richards Ward; "Israel's Rise to Power," Nibley Park Ward; "The Gathering of Israel Begins," Forest Dale Ward. The Grand Finale included the rising of the audience in singing the Doxology. The music was of very high order, the dramatic effects most artistic and the entire program portrayed, with striking power, the great history of the House of Israel and their expression through the Scriptures. It was a most inspirational demonstration of the work of the Teachers' Topic, Theology and Scripture Reading project. The Stake and each Ward should be congratulated upon the excellence of their performance.