We See~a) Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
OCTOBER—The tired soul sweet solace finds in depth of autumn woods and silent canyon lanes.
MAUDE ADAMS shows a fine quality of heart in using her talents for others' benefit by accepting a professorship in dramatic art at Stephen's College, Columbia, Mo.
MADAM CHIANG KAI-SHEK of China in a stirring appeal to the Chinese women said, "Today we face the greatest crisis in our nation's history. Sometimes it is necessary to make a supreme sacrifice for the sake of national honor. Let the women of China be not afraid." Loh Tsi, leader of the Chinese Youth Movement answered the challenge and marched through North China villages at the head of a line of students warning the peasants of the pending disaster. She is called China's "Joan of Arc."
DIXIE GRAVES' appointment by her husband, Governor Graves of Alabama, to fill the vacancy in the U. S. Senate, gives two senatorships to women.
EDITH WHARTON, American novelist, whose last novel, The Age of Innocence, was a Pulitzer prize winner, died last summer at her beautiful home in France. She remembered in her will, besides many friends, her maids, butlers, chauffeurs, and all who served her.
ELISE B. ALDER and Ethel R. Smith, two gifted and beloved members of the General Board of Relief Society, died this late summer.
EDNA ST. VINCENT MILLAY, in her recent book Conversation At Midnight, has greatly disappointed many admirers, who have been charmed by her choice selection and arrangement of words in her lovely poems like The Wood Road, The Harp Weaver, Sonnets, and others.
HORTENSE McQUARRIE ODLUM of New York, has proffered to the Daughters of Pioneers of St. George, Utah (her native town) sufficient means for a memorial building to house relics and historical data.
JUDGE ANNA CROSS of New York, says "Crime is a woman's business and women should work for social service bureaus attached to magistrates courts." Judge Reva Beck Bosone, of Salt Lake City court, implied the same thought recently in a talk on "Human Relations" before a body of women legislators.
HELEN JACOBS and Alice Marble were the victors at the Forest Hills, New York tennis tournament this summer. This is the sixth successful defense of the Wightman cup by the American players.
GENEVIEVE SAVAGE ended her brilliant career as an aviatrix this summer hurtling against a mountain near Presidio, Texas. Nothing daunted by this and Amelia Earhart's tragic end, Jacqueline Cochran was an entrant in the Bendix trophy race from Los Angeles to Cleveland.