Teachers' Visit to An Indifferent Member By Leah D. Widtsoe Hostess—Mrs. MacDonald. TreacHers—Mrs. Christianson and Mrs. Burton. Marp—Mrs. Lorentzen. Scene I (Sister Christianson calls for Sister Burton. Knocks.) SISTER BURTON: Come in. Oh, Good Morning, Sister Christianson. Isn't ita beautiful day for our visits? (Puts on hat and coat) SISTER CHRISTIANSON: Yes, indeed. I hope you're feeling well, Sister Burton. Sister Burton: Yes, thank you. How are you? SISTER CHRISTIANSON: Very well and eager to make our visits. SisTER Burton: Shall we have a word of prayer first. I think it is your turn. SISTER CHRISTIANSON: (nods and prays) Our Father in Heaven. We come before thee at this time to ask that thou wilt be with us during our special work for Thy cause this day. Help us to understand our privilege and inspire us to give each sister whom we visit the help she may need in her life's problems, Bless those whose homes we shall visit; may they desire to receive us and accept the spiritual uplift that comes only from thee to those who love and serve thee. We are on thy special work, Father. Bless our efforts for good. May we leave some ray of hope and blessing in every home we visit and may every home in our district be open to us this day. We ask this blessing in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. (They proceed on their visits) SISTER CHRISTIANSON: Shall we visit Sister MacDonald today? She's always so busy with her social duties. Sister Burton: Yes, let's try again and give her a special invitation this time to come to Relief Society. Scene IT (They knock at the home of Sister MacDonald) SISTER MacDonatp: (who is doing some writing—aside to the maid who is busy dusting) Oh, my goodness, here come the Relief Society teachers again. What a nuisance! I wish they wouldn't call. I just can't see them today. But, go let them in. SISTER LORENTZEN: (goes to the door—opens it.) SIsTER Burton: Good morning. We are the Relief Society teachers. Is Mrs. MacDonald in? SISTER LORENTZEN: (rather hesitatingly) Ye-s-s. Will you come in? SISTER CHRISTIANSON: Wait just a moment, please. Are you a member of the L. D. S. Church? SISTER LORENTZEN: Yes—I am. SISTER Burton: Is your home in Salt Lake City? SISTER LORENTZEN: No, I came from Nephi. SISTER Burton: Do you attend Sunday School or Mutual in the Ward? S1sTER LorENtTzEN: I did attend Mutual once but felt so strange I haven't been again. SISTER CHRISTIANSON: Do you know that the Lion House has a special M. I. A. Meeting every Thursday evening at 7:30? They are most interesting. Try to go sometime. 642 SISTER LORENTZEN: Thank you, I wil. SisTER Burton: And do come to our Ward again sometime. We will be most happy to make you acquainted with some of the young people. SISTER LORENTZEN: Thank you so much, I'll try. Scene III
SISTER MacDonald: Oh, good morning, sisters.
SISTER Burton: How are you today, Sister MacDonald?
SISTER MacDonald: Oh, just terribly busy I haven't a moment to spare.
SISTER Burton: Well, we are not going to stay long. We have just called to inquire after your welfare and to leave a message.
Sister MacDonald: Well, that's kind of you, but really I am very busy. I have an appointment that I should keep in half an hour.
SISTER Burton: We won't detain you long, but may we take a moment to tell you about our Relief Society meetings this year? They are so interesting. Our lessons are most helpful—they seem to be just what we all need.
Sister MacDonald: Well, maybe for you, but I just don't have time for Relief Society. I'm a member of a Literary Club and a Music Club and I just haven't time for anything else. But—won't you sit down?
SISTER CHRISTIANSON: You know Sister MacDonald, Relief Society does something for me that I never get from any club and I have been a club worker, too, all my life.
SISTER MacDonald: (becoming rather interested) That is interesting. Just what do you mean? Will you explain it to me?
SISTER CHRISTIANSON: Well, you know life may be said to move on four planes, the physical, the mental,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the moral, and the spiritual. Most people live on the physical plane, spending all their time in looking after the needs of their families. That is most necessary, of course, but the physical alone is not enough; to keep abreast of the times we must develop our mentalities.
Sister MacDonald: I have always tried to develop myself mentally but I thought the Relief Society was merely a religious organization.
SISTER CHRISTIANSON: This intellectual stimulus we receive from our wonderful lessons in the Relief Society. A splendid moral development we obtain from our Charity work and above all, a unique spiritual uplift in our study of the truths of the Gospel of Christ. Why, the very fact that our meetings are opened and closed with prayer and the singing of a heartfelt hymn makes me feel a nearness to a Higher Power that I never obtain from any other study group or social group. To me, it's a real inspiration that lasts throughout the week.
SISTER MacDonald: Well, I'd never thought of it just like that.
SISTER Burton: Our special message this month, Sister MacDonald, concerns the lesson of the Good Neighbor as taught by our Savior in the parable of the Good Samaritan. Even President Roosevelt is talking a great deal these days about the nations being good Neighbors. And goodness knows we need that ideal developed right at this time in the midst of turmoil and war.
SISTER CHRISTIANSON: Yes, and isn't it really interesting that the Prophet Joseph was inspired to found our Society that the entire sisterhood of the church might have an opportunity to serve and be good neighbors to all.
SISTER MacDonald: Oh, well, I haven't time to bother about my
TEACHERS' VISIT TO AN INDIFFERENT MEMBER 643
neighbors. I don't even know who they are.
SISTER CHRISTIANSON: The parable teaches us that anyone in need is in reality our neighbor. And the blessing it gives us to help others in time of need is truly Christ-like.
SISTER MacDonald: There are not many poor in our district are there? How can I help?
SISTER Burton: Sometimes people are more in need of comfort or a word of encouragement than they are of bread. The man in the parable had bodily wounds but wounds of the spirit are often more serious and harder to heal. We may never know how much a friendly hand shake or a cheerful greeting may help those who are wounded in spirit. Besides, there are many wards that have more poor than they can take care of and it is our privilege to help them.
SISTER MacDonald: I think that is true.
SISTER Christianson: I'm sure we all need to be more helpful and generous in our feelings to others and the Relief Society gives us the opportunity to do just that. Do try and find time to come to meeting next Tuesday, Sister MacDonald.
SISTER MacDonald: You make it all sound very interesting, but I haven't been to Relief Society for so long—I—I—
SISTER CHRISTIANSON: Sister MacDonald, I don't live very far away. Let me call for you next Tuesday, I'd love to do it.
SISTER MacDonald: That is very kind of you Sister Christianson, I'll try to make it. I really would like to do my duty in the church and set the proper example to my children. I am very desirous that my son should fill a good mission.
SISTER Burton: Thank you, Sister MacDonald; you'll never regret this decision. And some day I'm sure your son will be proud to say as President Grant does today, "My Mother was always a faithful Relief Society worker and I honor her for it.' We must not keep you longer but would like to leave with you our teacher's topic for this month.
SISTER MacDonald: Thank you, you've given me something to think of, sisters, that I feel will do me much good. I will think seriously of what you have said and will try and make time in my program for Relief Society. Let me give you a donation,
Sister Burton: Thank you, we appreciate that, but, remember we need your presence and your active support, as well. In that way we can be a blessing to each other. Goodbye, Sister MacDonald.
SISTER MacDonald: Goodbye Sisters and I'll try to be ready next week, Sister Christianson.
SISTERS: Goodbye.