Where Do Babies Come From? By Virginia B. Jacobsen
Little Nora, age six, sat sewing with her mother. Apparently she was paying little attention to the tiny white garments on which her mother was working. Finally out of a clear sky of other conversation came the remark, "It's a shame we don't have a baby to wear these pretty clothes you are making!"
"Would you like to have another little brother or sister?" asked her mother.
"Oh, Mother, I think it would be wonderful!" beamed Nora.
"Then, I will tell you a secret. We are going to have a little baby soon."
"Are we really? How do you know?" was the natural question.
"Because it is growing inside my body. Would you like to feel it move?"
Nora looked surprised. "Could I really feel it move?' She went to her mother's side, and her mother placed her small hand on the spot where a wee growing human was making its presence felt. Nora's eyes beamed. "Oh, Mother, I think it is just wonderful! I have wished for so long that we would have a baby. Does Daddy know?"
"Yes, Daddy knows. He and I planned for it months ago. I am glad that you are so happy about it. You can help me get things ready for our little baby."
Nora's mother was wise to meet the situation when it arose, without emotion, embarrassment, undue secrecy, or any tendency to avoid the issue. Nora was a perfectly normal child, and she responded to her mother's reply in the same spirit in which her mother responded to her question. It had been a perfectly normal
and natural question. It was a natural and normal reply.
If Nora is a questioning child and asks the next question which is likely to occur to her, "But, mother, how will the baby get out?" she must be answered. If we do not answer the question of birth when it arises, the child will likely figure it out for himself?not very correctly or satisfactorily?but he will figure it out in some manner. Or worse still, he will perhaps get erroneous information from ill-informed companions. It is a very simple matter to say to this question of how the baby will be born or "get out," "There is a special little passage-way in every mother just made to bring the baby down and out into the world when the baby is ready to be born."
This will be enough for some children, but with others we can go a little further to ease their minds and explain that the passageway is closed down usually, so that it is fairly small. But when the baby is ready to come, the muscles stretch so that the passage is large enough to permit the baby to be born. If the question of pain comes up, we should not worry the child with recitals of pain, but should simply say; "Of course it hurts, but we all must be able to stand pain at times. It is just part of being brave."
As long as a child continues to ask questions, the mother should answer. If she is old enough for the question, she is ready for the answer. The time to answer any question is the time it occurs to the child. We parents are often shocked and surprised at the questions put to us, but we must be ready for them.
Hygeia and Parents magazines are both urging that parents adopt a sane attitude toward sex education of chil-
WHERE DO BABIES COME FROM?
dren, but they stress the need of first educating the parents. The modern approach to the discussion of sex education involves first of all the adequate preparation of parents for their part in shaping the thinking and feeling of a child with regard to sex.
Hygeia says: "Parents attitudes on this subject depend to a large degree on the kind of preparation they have had or take the trouble to secure for their function as teachers in the matter of sex.
"A satisfactory preparation includes four things: first of all, a satisfactory adjustment as husband and wife, for if there is physical or psychic maladjustment, they are poorly qualified for the sex education of a child; second, an adequate parental understanding of the nature of sex and its relation to the highest individual and social values in human life; third, a suitable vocabulary to tell the children the needed facts; and last, the ability of the parents to face the question in a matter-of-fact way without a sense of confusion, shame or guilt when a child asks his inevitable question. Nothing parents say is nearly so effective as the way it is said."
The question of where babies come from is likely to arise in a number of different forms, but no matter how it arises it must be answered. A child brings his questions to the person who answers him. A line of communication established between parent and child is one of the most important accomplishments. "I'll ask mother," is one of the safest and happiest situations which can exist between mother and child.
Turn back the pages of your own experience, and remember the time when these questions came into your mind. Were you told the fable of the stork, the cabbage, or the rose,
689
or one of a dozen impossible tales? Or were you fortunate enough to have a mother, who even then, believed that these questions were right and natural and should be answered? If your mother did answer your first question honestly and frankly with perhaps a touch of sentiment, you went back to her thereafter for further information. But if she put you off, and avoided your question, you knew she was trying to wiggle out of the truth and you felt that there was something about it to be avoided. From then on you went elsewhere to satisfy your mind on these problems.
Although the question of where babies come from is the most frequent one of the early years, we do not escape other questions. And they too must be answered. "Why do people always get sick when they have babies?"?"Why can't we have a baby?"?"What makes your tummy so fat?" "How can you tell a baby boy from a baby girl?" These and countless other questions frequently confront us at moments when we are least in the mood for answering them. But our mood has nothing to do with the situation. We parents must be prepared to face any such problem at the moment when it arises.
There need be no embarrassment in answering the question of life. The child feels embarrassment only when we ourselves show it. If we are prepared with the proper information, it is a simple matter to answer these perfectly natural questions when they arise. And they do arise in the mind of every normal boy or girl at some time. If your child is not coming to you for information you can rest assured that he is getting his knowledge from some other sources, and nine times out of ten the information he is getting is neither correct nor wholesome.
690
There is no excuse, today, for mothers and fathers who fail to properly prepare their children for clean, wholesome sex life. Our libraries are supplied with splendid books which will be of great help in preparing the parent for this great responsibility. The following list of books is available in most libraries or may be purchased at any book store:
New Patterns in Sex Teaching, by Frances Bruce Strain. (We recommend this book for every home library.) $2.00.
Growing Up, by De Schweinitz. $1.75.
Parents and Sex Education, by Gruenberg. $1.00.
Sex Education for the Child, by Mary D. Wareing.
Note: The above books can be secured from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. The prices quoted do not include postage and sales tax.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE