Our Responsibility By Eva K. Thomas IT IS the responsibility of every I citizen to remove or prevent as far as possible evil, vice, sickness, or sorrow from community life, and to provide a proper standard of living and education, that the youth of the land and generations to follow may be strong and brave, and true. Sir Christopher Wren rebuilt London after the great fire of 1666. The legend above his tomb in St. Paul's Cathedral reads—'Tfi you would see his monument look around you." Such a legend may be yours if a keen sense of citizenship and community welfare makes you public spirited. In the family are nourished many of the finest virtues upon which orderly community life depends. How deep and important are the ideals of fatherhood, motherhood, childhood. Loyalty and unselfishness develop wherever there is wholesome family life. The family represents the first little group where the young and the old, the clever and the dull, the strong and the weak learn to live together, to work together in harmony and affection. Here the virtues of good citizenship are discovered such as the knowledge that the act of one person may hurt others; that over-work, whether on the part of parents or children, is harmful, that selfishness produces evil results, that the opinion of others should be listened to and studied. It is through the family that women who first loved only their own little children have grown to care for the welfare of all little children. That women who have worked and sacrificed for their own children have learned to be interested in the struggles of all women to rear their children properly; and that men with families of their own to work for have understood and respected the struggles of other men to maintain proper homes. The family also furnishes a motive for men and women to work hard and live honorable lives. There are very few people who can or who desire to live and to work for themselves alone. The oldest form of government is that of the home with the father of the family at its head. It should be and usually is the best of all for it is founded upon love. The community is in many respects simply an enlarged family. Suffrage, economic conditions, educational privileges have decidedly altered and broadened the perspective of men and women. The home, that institution out of which has grown the deepest and longest experience of the race, is no longer an isolated and independent estate, even in pioneer lands, because of modern communication and invention, therefore one must have relation to and interest in community life. To obtain the greatest freedom and happiness in the art of living, there must be cooperation. Good citizenship is the key to this goal. Today we belong to a family group, to a city or township, to a state anda nation. The city or township has most to do with our health and education, the state makes the laws for our security and the nation safeguards our liberties and regu- 660 - lates our larger activities. In consideration of these facts, a certain degree of political education is necessary to maintain rule by the people and the ballot or our vote is the power of control. The purpose of government is to guarantee our rights. In a country like ours, we make our own laws as is done in the New England town meeting, or we elect others to make laws for us as is done in all the State legislatures and in the National Congress.. Now if the government is for the individual and we are to help govern, we owe it to ourselves and to our fellow citizens to inform ourselves as much as possible in regard to our Government. Every right implies a duty. If we have a right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, it is our sacred duty to help guarantee the same right to others.; Every American born, male or female, 21 years of age, if registered is a qualified elector or voter. An alien or foreign born is made a citizen of these United States and given the right to vote in the following manner: After residing here at least two years, he goes before a court of law and declares his intention of becoming an American citizen. Not less than two years nor more than seven years afterward, he applies to the court for his naturalization papers and after ninety days have elapsed he appears before the judge and his application is heard. If the judge is satisfied that the applicant should become a citizen he thereupon issues a certificate of naturalization. No foreigner can become a citizen until he has resided here at least five years. Every voter is responsible in part RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for the kind of government under which he lives. It is his duty to see that good men are chosen to make the laws and other good men to enforce the laws when made.: No one who shirks the responsibility of voting has any right to complain if the laws do not suit him or if officers prove faithless. This government is surely for the people. It will be by the people only when all voters do their full duty at the polls. We should all have a knowledge of the laws and ordinances of our town, county, state, and nation, sufficient at least for our individual conduct and the conduct of our own affairs. As citizens of these United States, it is our duty to see that we are registered so that we may help to elect to office men of whom we are confident, men and women who are interested in the advancement and welfare of community, state, and nation, rather than their own advancement and personal gain. If such men are elected to office then we can be sure that the health, education, beautification, recreation, and protection of every community will be properly supervised. The Church is indeed a source of spiritual aid for right living. Our church goes hand in hand with law and order, advancement both spiritually and morally, for according to our 13th article of faith, "We believe in being subject to kings and presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law." To be aware of community opportunities and help to provide them for the betterment of family life zs the privilege and becomes the responsibility of every citizen. The citizen who assumes this responsibility can 'Look around and behold his monument.' "I believe in the United States of OUR RESPONSIBILITY America as a government of the people, by the people, for the people, whose just powers are derived from the consent of the governed, a democracy in a republic, a sovereign nation of many sovereign states, a perfect union one and inseparable, established upon those principles of 661 freedom, equality, justice and humanity, for which American Patriots sacrificed their lives and fortunes. "I therefore believe it is my duty to my country to love it, and support its constitution, to-obey its laws, to respect its flag, and to defend it against all enemies."