Lesson Department Theology and Testimony Lesson 4 THE USE OF PARABLES IN CHRIST'S TEACHING Helpful References: Matthew 13:3-8; 21:33-34; 13: 24-30, 31-33, 47-50; 22:1-14; 25:1- 13; 20:1-16; 25:14-30; 13:44-46; 18:21-35. Mark 4:26-29. Luke 13:6-9; 14:16-24; 19:11-27; 18:9-14; 11:5-10; 18:1-8; 10:25-27; 15:4-7, 8-10, 11-32; 12:16-21; 16: 19-31; 16:1-9. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, Chapter 19. See also index under "Parables of Christ." Trench, Notes on the Parables of our Lord. Goebel, The Parables of Jesus. Bruce, The Parabolic Teaching of Christ. Buttrick, The Parables of Jesus. 1. Parable Defined. One who reads the Gospels cannot help but be impressed with the wealth of parabolic teaching contained in them. "And without a parable he spoke not to them." (Mark 4:34; see Matthew 13:34.) At the outset it will be helpful for us to inquire into the nature of the parable before we discuss the use made of it by the Savior. The word "parable" is one of about 130,000 words in the English language derived directly or indirectly from the ancient Greek. Goebel, in his book, The Parables of Jesus, gives, with some reservations, the following definition of a parable: "A narrative moving within the sphere of physical or human life, not professing to communicate an event which really took place, but expressly imagined for the purpose of representing in pictorial figure a truth belonging to the sphere of religion, and therefore referring to the relation of man or mankind to God." The parable differs from the fable in that it always borrows its matter from the sphere of actual life, whereas the latter moves in the realm of fantasy. The use of parables in the Bible is confined not to the New Testament alone; the Old Testament contains them. The one told by Nathan to David about the rich man and the poor man is notable. (2 Samuel 12:1-4.) 2. An Element of Mercy Shown in Parabolic Mode of Instruction. Though the use of parables was common in the days of our Lord, it is instructive to note that His disciples once came to Him and said, "Why dost thou speak to them in parables?" The implication would seem to be that His parables were only understood after considerable thought and reflection. In answer the Savior said, '"To you it is given to know the mysteries of the Kingdom of heaven; but to them it is not given. For whoever has, to him will be given, and he shall have abundance; but whoever has not, even what he has shall be taken from him, Therefore I speak to them in parables; because seeing they see not, and hearing they hear not, nor understand." (See Matthew 13:10-15.) The late Elder James E. Talmage in his Jesus the Christ, pertinently remarks, "There is plainly shown an element of mercy 670 in the parabolic mode of instruction adopted by our Lord under the conditions prevailing at the time. Had He always taught in explicit declaration, such as required no interpretation, many among His hearers would have come under condemnation, inasmuch as they were too weak infaith and unprepared in heart to break the bonds of traditionalism and prejudice engendered by sin, so as to accept and obey the saving word. Their inability to comprehend the requirements of the gospel would in righteous measure give Mercy some claim upon them, while had they rejected the truth with full understanding, stern Justice would surely demand their condemnation." 3. The Nature and Development of the Kingdom of God. For the sake of convenience we can, following Goebel, classify the parables into two general groups. Each of these can be divided into sub-groups. It is obviously impossible to adequately deal with all the parables in one short lesson. For that reason we shall consider but a few in each of the two general groups. The first of these groups has to do with the parables that contain teaching respecting the nature and development of the kingdom of God. One of the most interesting parables in it is the Parable of the Sower. (Matthew 13:3-8.) Possibly a better name of it would be the Parable of the Four Types of Soils. This parable deals essentially "with the conditions under which the Kingdom of God is founded. In it is portrayed the fact that the success of preaching is mainly dependent on the hearers. How true this observation is can be testified to by practically all missionaries of this dispensation. The Savior compares the hearers of the word to different kinds of soil upon which a sower casts seed. The Sower may be compared RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to an authorized servant of God and the seed to his message. The effect of the seed depends upon the type of soil it falls upon. If it falls upon hard soil, "by the wayside," it is quickly snatched up and is of no effect. If sowed on "stony places" or "among thorns" it fares somewhat better for a time, but eventually withers away or is choked by thorns. The seed falling on good ground, however, brings forth good fruit, "some an hundred-fold, some sixtyfold, some thirty-fold." So likewise is the effect of preaching upon human hearts. Whether the glad news of the Gospel takes effect or not depends mainly upon the type of spiritual soil it falls upon. If the soil has been hardened by sin and the conscience trodden under foot, the seed has but little chance to take root. If the soil is shallow and superficial, the seed may take root; but it soon withers away. Some soil may be good, and the seed grows; but the latter is soon choked out by the thorns of a poor environment. The "good ground" represents those individuals who are spiritually strong, who have a broken heart and a contrite spirit, who have the courage of their convictions, and who are undaunted by persecution. These bring forth much fruit, and the Church and Kingdom of God are greatly built up by them. Of such were the early pioneers of Utah. 4. The Right Attitude of Members of the Kingdom. The second group of parables deals with the attitude that members of the Kingdom ought to display toward God and the World. There are two very short but excellent parables that teach in a profound manner the attitude that one ought to have toward God. They are The Hidden Treasure (Matthew 13:44) and The Costly Pearl (Matthew 13:45-46). In these parables LESSON DEPARTMENT the "Kingdom of Heaven'"' is likened unto a "treasure hid in a field', and unto a "pearl of great price", respectively. In the first case a certain man "goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field." In the second a merchant man, "seeking goodly pearls... Found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it." The things of God are worth acquiring if they require the sacrifice of everything we have in the world to obtain them. These parables call to mind an Abraham willing to sacrifice an only son, or a Joseph Smith willing to lay down his life, for the kingdom of God. Such men indeed receive the joy in God that sacrifices everything for the highest good. The Parable of the Good Samaritan, one of the noblest of all parables, is a splendid example of teaching concerning the right attitude of members of the kingdom toward man. It is not necessary to recount the details of it, because it is so well known. The parable answers the question, "Who is my neighbor?" The context ought to make plain that this question, put by a lawyer to the Christ, was merely an attempt to hide his sense of shame at the unexpected turn which the conversation had previously taken. So all of us, professing to understand the Gospel, ought to be ashamed if we do not understand who our neighbor is. As the Savior unfolds the story of the wounded man and the Samaritan, certain expressions stand out. Note, "he had compassion on him", "bound up his wounds", "takes care of him', "shewed mercy on him", etc. These are all traits of our "neighbor." We ought to remember in this connection the statement of 671 King Benjamin in the Book of Mormon. "Behold, I say unto you that because I said unto you that I had spent my days in your service, I do not desire to boast, for I have only been in the service of God. And behold, I tell you these things that ye may learn wisdom; that ye may learn that when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God." (Mosiah 2: 16-17) Questions 1. In what sense was the Savior merciful by teaching in parables? 2. What doctrines of the Gospel can you think of that are taught in the parables? Specify the parables and give references. 3. What parables do you like best? Why? Problems Treat only those that time and circumstances will permit. 1. Analyze carefully the parables of The Rich Man (Luke 16:19-31) and The Unjust Steward (Luke 16: 1-9). 2. Determine the number of parables in the. Doctrine and Covenants. (See index and concordance). Report on the teaching contained in them. 3. From a consideration of history show that the Gospel was taken from the Jews and given to others. What parables seem to have foreshadowed this? 4, Determine which of the Apostles of this generation has written parables or fables. If possible read a parable or a fable to the class.  Teacher's Topic Lesson 4 THE COURAGE OF JESUS Yearly Aim?"That we may see more clearly the character of Jesus and become so enraptured with him that we will strive to transform ourselves more and more into his image." HAVE not I commanded thee, be strong and of a good courage; be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed: for the Lord thy God is with thee whither soever thou goest." Joshua 1:9. "Any one can get up courage for an hour. But to be patiently heroic daily is the test of character." "When clouds gather fast stand by your helm. Many a ship has been saved because the courage of the skipper was greater than the fury of the storm." Courage is a virtue held in universal esteem. There has never been an age in which it has not been deemed a praiseworthy and a precious thing. Some of the world's greatest achievements have been made possible through this foundation stone of character. It is this element of courage, greater than all else, which helps individuals to heed the call of each day's struggle and combat all things that lead to failure and despair. In the character of Jesus we find a pattern for all men?In him we find bravery at its best, courage at its loftiest. His was not a physical courage, possessed alike by man and beast; it was not a military courage, that kind which sends a soldier across the field into a burst of flame, carried forward by the very momentum of the movement; Nor was it that occasional courage that is satisfied with one great moment of exertion and of risks. His was the courage of mind and the heroism of the heart; the courage of commonplace days manifested hour by hour. True, the New Testament gives us many illustrations of the courage of Jesus, both thrilling and picturesque, such as his cleansing of the Temple, or when he came from the Garden of Gethsemane and startled the band of men who had come to arrest him by saying "I am the man you seek." Think of Christ's appointed work, the greatest that ever was to be done upon the earth. What toils, what grievances attended his mighty task?-If he had wearied, lost courage?what then! He came to this world to serve mankind, bringing its greatest blessings, eternal life and exaltation. Instead of receiving him with gratitude as mediator and Savior he was rejected and crucified. "His life was a tragedy of ingratitudes'?-What courage one must have to go steadily on in the face of ingratitude! What courage is required to face loss of esteem, among friends and associates when heeding the call of duty?As Jesus taught in the synagogue at Nazareth among those who had known him always, the people rose up and thrust him out of the city. But Jesus went on still teaching, still doing his duty. What more vivid picture have we of ability to face impending trial courageously than when Jesus set his face steadfastly to go to Jerusalem where he knew they would scourge him, spit upon him and crucify him. His was the courage of foregoing popular applause. He could easily LESSON DEPARTMENT. Have drawn to himself the so-called "great" of his day but all men were Jesus' brothers; he associated with the poor and lowly, even with sinners, thus losing the approbation of many. Jesus said "I am not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance." ' The courage of Jesus is the kind needed by every man and woman. The courage with which to meet the problems of every day; to meet life's tests. To keep sweet in the daily grind, to keep on going hour after hour, to cast off petty irritations, to meet irksome detail with a mind undisturbed. We need to remember "it isn't the big trees that trip us up as we walk through the forest, but the vines on the ground, the low underbrush." "The Lord is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid?" 673 References Jefferson, The Character of Jesus. Luke 4:16-30. Mark 10:32. Matt. 9:10-13. Questions 1, Explain and give examples of physical courage; military courage; occasional courage. 2. What type of courage was manifest by the Mormon Pioneers? Give illustration. 3. What type of courage is required to face ingratitude? Poverty? Disappointment? 4. Upon what elements is courage based? 5. Select from the Gospels additional illustrations of every-day courage of the Master. Literature Lesson 4 LOG CABIN LADY LOG CABIN LADY" is a book written with a definite purpose. Though, in a sense, it is an autobiography inasmuch as it tells the life of the writer through her most important years, it is told chiefly to impress upon women and educators the importance of teaching their children and the children of the schools the best social usages; but, more important still, an attitude toward social forms. The author of the book and, therefore, the subject of these next two lessons, is anonymous. We must speak of her only as Mary, but perhaps that is an advantage. We can be more objective in our discussions.. Marie M. Meloney, editor of '"The Delineator," tells us in the preface how the book came to be written. She says she met the author at a luncheon where a discussion arose which resulted in her asking "Mary" for her story. "It took nearly a year to persuade this remarkable woman to put down on paper, from her recollections and from her old letters home, this simple story of a fine American life. She consented finally to write fragments of her life, anonymously. We were pledged not to reveal her identity. A few changes in geography and time were made in her manuscript, but otherwise the story is true to life, laden with adventure, spirit and the American philosophy. She has refused to ac- 674 cept any remuneration for the magazine publication or for royalties on the book rights. The money accruing from her labor is being set aside in the Central Union Trust Company of New York City as a trust fund to be used in some charitable work. She has given her book to the public solely because she believes it contains a helpful message for other women. It is the gracious gift of a woman who has a deep and passionate love for her country, and a tender responsiveness to the needs of her own sex." The known items in the life of Mary can be sketched briefly. Born in a log cabin in Wisconsin, she married at twenty, a man of wealth and education from Boston whom she had met at Columbia University. He, on account of having received a diplomatic appointment in England, took his young wife almost immediately to London where they remained for a number of years. This book, interestingly written in simple, beautiful language, relates the story of the struggle this backwoodsman's daughter had to master the social usages of the various oc-. Casions which she was called upon to face. "I was born in a log cabin. I came to my pioneer mother in one of Wisconsin's bitterest winters," she begins her autobiography. "Twenty-one years later I was sailing for England, the wife of a Diplomat who was one of Boston's wealthy and aristocratic sons. "The road between?well, let it speak for itself. Merely to set this story on paper opens old wounds, deep, but mercifully healed these many years. Yet, if other women may find here comfort and illumination and a certain philosophy; I am glad, and I shall feel repaid." "The first thing I remember is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE being grateful for windows. I was three years old. My mother had set me to play on a mattress carefully placed in the one ray of sunlight streaming through the one glass window in our log cabin. Baby as I was, I had ached in the agonizing cold of a pioneer winter. Lying there, warmed by that blessed sunshine, I was suddenly aware of wonder and joy and gratitude. It was gratitude for glass, which could keep out the biting cold and let in the warm sun. "To this: day windows give me pleasure." That suggestion of windows might be taken as a sort of keynote or theme of the book. She scarcely mentions them again, but the story is of a person looking out of windows, not always sunny ones, at the splendor and grandeur of the world which sometimes warmed and thrilled but which more often frightened and scorched her. The library which her pioneer parents had in their home at the time of the arrival of Mary consisted of " 'Bancroft's History of the United States,' several books of mathematics, Plutarch's Lives, a history of Massachusetts, a leatherbound volume of Civil War records, Thackeray's 'Vanity Fair,' Shakespeare in two volumes, and 'The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.' My mother's book, a Bible." Until she was fourteen, Mary saw no other books. "Because "Vanity Fair' contained simpler words than the others, it was given me first; so at the age of seven, I was spelling out pages of the immortal Becky. "My mother did not approve, but father laughed and protested that the child might as well begin with good things." "When I was fourteen, three tremendous events had marked my LESSON DEPARTMENT life," she says. "Sunlight through a window pane; the log-rolling on the river when father added two rooms to our cabin; and the night I thought mother would die and leave me the only woman in eighteen miles." - The fourth event, however, was really more important than the three named?a distant relative in the East had willed Mary's father her belongings. These were sent on to the frontier home and there for the first time Mary beheld a table napkin. A little later, Mary was sent East to school where she was soon to meet the man she married. During her association with Tom, the man she was soon to marry, Mary began to discover the many things she did not know about social usage. Intelligent though she was, she was embarrassed many times upon discovering that she had made. Some sort of blunder. Tom, though generous and fine, had difficulty steering her safely through social affairs. "To-day," she wrote in her book, "I appreciate better than I could then the gentle tact with which Tom told me his family was strong on 'good form'...." "The beautiful ease of my husband's women-folk filled me with admiration and despair. I felt guilty of something. I was queer. Their voices, the intonation, even the tilt of their chins, seemed to stamp these new 'in-laws' as aristocrats of another race. Yet the same old New England stock that sired their ancestors produced my father's fathers." Mary was wise enough to know that the difference between herself and her husband's women was merely one of education and opportunity, not one of inferior blood. But that thought was not sufficient to ward 675 off many unpleasant moments when she found herself at a loss to know what was the best form. Her visit to Tom's Aunt Elizabeth's home is effectively told by this woman who lays her soul bare in an effort to help other women to prepare their own daughters for a new station in life. The journey to England as the wife of an important diplomat and her presentation at various social functions in the British capital all had their moments of tragedy for the little girl from the Wisconsin log cabin. Despite her eagerness to learn the correct dress as well as the correct social forms, she could not master everything quickly. As a result, little incidents repeatedly tripped her up like the one where she was led into speaking to Mr. Gladstone across the table and into making what we now call a "wise crack" when speaking to Sir Thomas Lipton. "That night," says she, "I repeated my joketo Tom. Instead of smiling, he said: 'That's not the way to get onin England. It's too Becky Sharpish?" The author relates very well her presentation to the queen when, so impressed was she that despite her tutoring, she held out her hand to shake in a frank American way. "I have realized in the years since what a real queen she was. Smiling she extended her hand?but not to be touched. It was a little wave, a little imitation of my own impulsive outstretching to a friend; then her eyes went to the next person, and I was on my way, having been presented at court and done what 'is not done' in England." Her experience at the queen's "drawing room" and her other experiences led Mary to decide to hire a teacher. Seeing an advertisement 676 which read: "A lady of aristocratic birth and social training desires to be of service to a good-paying guest," she answered it and secured a Scotch lady to be her tutor. Her lessons in proper social usage began immediately, but how long they continued you will learn in the next lesson. There is a charm to this story of an honest, intelligent, country girl. Mary has handled her life's story beautifully, giving the reader only samples of the situations in which she found herself. Suggestions For Study 1. This book is so brief and so charming that much of it could be read with profit in class. 2. Since many of our Relief Society sisters have been reared on the farm, some exchanges of personal experience might be interesting and helpful. 3. Can you point out the qualities in this book which make for interest and charm? What would you say is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the "atmosphere" or 'dominant tone" of the story? 4. If there are any women in the class who have made an ocean voyage, they might relate personal experiences connected with the social life on board. 3 5. Why did Mary say that in the years that have passed she has come to realize what a real queen the queen really was? What did the queen do that was especially fine? Why was it fine? 6. How nearly was Tom right when he said: "Be your own sweet self and they'll love you?" Is being one's self enough? 7. Note how deftly the author mentions those with whom she associated?such men as Chauncey Depew, Mr. Gladstone, the queen. Why was skill necessary in such references? 8. It would be interesting for class members to renew their acquaintance with Becky Sharp by re-reading "Vanity Fair." Social Service Lesson IV TOLERATION FOR THE RIGHTS OF OTHERS Text: Civic Sociology, Edward A. Ross, Chapters XXIT to XXIV LIFE for the average adult is so controlled by the economic forces of society that selfishness and intolerance give rise to the rules which govern human living more often than not. But many people are not aware of the existence of these traits within themselves. Nor do they seem to realize that the qualities of suspended judgment and toleration toward ideas, interests, and spiritual ideals which differ from their own, although difficult to acquire, are necessary to social welfare. These qualities are dependent upon a broad outlook on life and an altruistic concept of living from both an individual and a social point of view. For example: The struggle for individual success in daily life is apt to foster personal advancement at the expense of a one-sided attitude towards life. Community interests often develop sectional loyalty at the cost of an outlook which should embrace state-wide, national, and even international vision. Some people stoutly uphold the right to LESSON DEPARTMENT religious freedom for themselves, but persistently deny the same privilege to others. And yet the good of society requires broad vision, loyalty to large causes, and true religious freedom. But such a comprehensive ideal challenges the social thinking of those who seek' the improvement of conditions, and of those who desire that the measure of human happiness should not be limited to selfish interests and biased judgments. The present lesson will point out the fallacy of narrow interpretations of life by developing the following purpose:: Each individual should strive to cultivate a spirit of tolerance toward those people whose ideas, interests, and spiritual attitudes differ from his own Three phases of the problem will be suggested: first, difficulties experienced through intolerant attitudes toward opposing religious views; second, the hindrances caused by biased points of view which result from a restricted outlook because of community localization that produces envy and jealousy; and third, shortsighted aims in the struggle for personal advancement. Toleration implies allowance for the existence of beliefs, practices, and habits which differ from one's own, without personal feelings of resentment and opposition. Intolerance suggests an antagonistic attitude which may end in conflict. That toleration is possible may be seen from the fact that during the last two decades there has been significant advancement toward the development of tolerance in practically all religious bodies. Particularly since the World War, Protestant churches have broadened their outlooks in search of worthy social goals. Gradually, the idea is permeating the mass mind that greater 677 good lies in co-operating with people of different beliefs than in wasteful argument. Different creeds are participating in inter-church activities in the attempt to solve common social problems. Such facts indicate a new tolerance which it is well to cultivate rather than to oppose in any way. Increasing broad-mindedness is also shown in the conflict which once existed between science and religion. Formerly many churchmen considered much of the teachings of science wicked, unorthodox, and heretical, punishable by imprisonment or even death. Compare this attitude with the following statement: "Science and Mormonism see things in this world primarily in the same way and also reason as to the purpose of things in the same way; the one naming its product civilization, the other religion; both coinciding in the final generalization, viz.: The uplifting of the human race." Nelson, "Scientific Aspects of Mormonism," pg. 12. One may not understand the statements of natural law as proposed by scientists, or be able to harmonize apparent inconsistencies with the interpretation of the revealed Word, but good judgment should make one refrain from the condemnation of things which he does not understand. Judgment calls for suspended opinion and tolerance with the hope that further pursuance of the truth will bring unity to the ideology of conflicting theories. Often members of the same religious body differ more widely than do different creeds and separate denominations. Because of the fact that the present generation has undergone much religious uncertainty, most doctrinal beliefs and attitudes have been subject to close scrutiny. Many -have been modified. And while the fundamental principles of the gospel and 678 the revealed plan of salvation have in no wise been altered, the application of their principles to the general scheme of life are actually receiving new interpretations. It is quite probable that the coming generation will see more sweeping changes than the past. Mankind is in the very midst of vast changes in the social applications of Christianity. But is it wise to raise strong or passionate objections to such scrutiny and changes, to refuse the right to modify interpretations, to condemn evolving religious philosophy? The simple truths of all religious doctrine will stand the test of any scrutiny and the resistance of any application. Should not the spirit of tolerance prevail in regard to the use which oncoming generations put them to as long as life is constructive, rather than destructive, in so far as humanity is able to judge? Surely Mormonism will not fall before such a test! What are some of the aspects in which people may be called upon to modify their religious attitudes? To anticipate the future is most difficult, but the following possibilities may be mentioned: Religious agencies for the guidance, control and amusement of youth must undergo modification, expansion and change in purpose and personnel management. They must meet the desires of youth as they exist and not as adults would like to have them. The enlarging scope and work of the Mutual Improvement Associations is a splendid example of changes in this direction. The unified participation of churches and social agencies in problems for general social improvement will probably increase. The unified control of charity by churches and social exchanges for the benefit of all recipients is an example of this function, and is illustrated by the co-operative RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE work of the Relief Society with other organizations. Churches are extending services to improve the physical and social betterment of the people by providing medical service, hospitalization, social and recreational facilities, athletic contests, general education, and schemes designed to improve the economic and social efficiency of people. Present points of view are bound to go through many changes as these new functions are enlarged. The second phase of this problem, biased attitudes resulting from too localized interests, will be discussed in regard toa sectional point of view. Those people who are isolated because of physical surroundings and lack of contacts with unlike environments are of necessity local in their experiences, but not necessarily in outlook. Often people who live under such circumstances are intolerant to most opinions and ideas outside their own. But, as has been previously pointed out, few communities are so isolated in the present age, that provincial points of view are excusable. Radios, moving pictures, and other agencies of communication tell the story of life from one end of the globe to the other. Automobiles, trucks, railroads, and airplanes make of even small communities cosmopolitan centers. While none of these practices equal actual travel, they suffice for broad educational ideology. However, this understanding of apparent conditions, customs, habits, and methods of living does not explain the underlying motives of human conduct. Members of a single family, fellow-religionists in close contact with each other, members of the same nation and race all find it difficult to make allowance for actions which are contrary to the personal point of view. Difference of LESSON DEPARTMENT opinion among close associates arises from opposing points of view. Intolerance arises from the closed mind which will not strive to understand -the opposite position. But if the selfishness which is fostered by the struggle for existence is ever to be overcome, the golden mean of understanding and tolerance toward others must at least become a part of one's conscious striving. It is well to remember that there are three sides to every question: "Your side, my side, and the one between." All people wish to be well thought of; each desires to promote his own economic welfare and enlarge his prestige in the community. Such desires may spring from a worthy cause, but they are often pursued from a short-sighted point of view. Too often only the immediate instead of the ultimate effect is considered. But time is the test of the effects of behavior, and unless ambition is built upon a long-time basis, success is apt to be short-lived. The desire to succeed should not overshadow good judgment or allow the development of a selfish and intolerant attitude toward others. Since toleration of opposing ideas, interests, and spiritual attitudes brings greater ultimate rewards it should characterize all emotional, mental, and objective patterns of behavior. To guard against selfish interests and biased judgments is to add to the ultimate happiness of humanity, and to increase the measure of satisfaction to one's self. There is a pattern of human behavior which rises above the selfish struggle of life, which springs from tolerance. No better example can be given than the life of Karl G. Maeser. Extremely well-born, welleducated, and highly gifted intellectually, he came across some Mormon pamphlets when he was a youth and 679 in a very skeptical mood, and' while stilla German citizen. Thirsting for knowledge, he wrote for further communication. But how he laughed, how he scorned the crude, rough usage of language in which his reply was clothed. Had he not had the insight to perceive the gospel-truths, had he not been tolerant towards the unlearned missionaries who brought their message to him, he would never have put himself in a position to receive the testimony of the gospel which came to him after he had humbled himself before God and these unlettered men. Had he not been tolerant of the crude ways of the men with whom he crossed the plains of America, he would never have discovered their sterling worth. Nor could he have achieved the high ideals which he attained in his new western home. Had he been obsessed with the pursuit of economic gain, or had he been short-sighted through a too localized point of view, he could neither have left the great heritage of education to the Latterday Saints which he did leave, nor could he have achieved the prestige, love, and honor which came to him through his very selflessness. But toleration was the cornerstone of this man's life. Such opportunities for tolerance and wise living continue to exist. Activities 1. In Great Britain, the Church and State are united. Originally the Government persecuted the dissenters. Yet in 1688 the British Parliament passed the Act of Toleration, which permitted practically all Protestant Christians to worship in their own churches. From the thoughts presented in this lesson, explain why the British Government changed its official attitude. 680 2. The Constitution of the United States declares that every person should have the right to worship according to the dictates of his own conscience. At first each denomination condemned and opposed all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE others with much bitterness, but in recent years there has been a decided trend towards toleration and even towards co-operation in general social affairs. Explain why this changed attitude has come about. Literature for Missions TYPICAL WOMEN IN THE CHURCH MELISSA JANE LAMBSON DAVIS Born in the United States "THE three women briefly considered in the foregoing lessons were born in Europe. But God's noble daughters are not all natives of the same land. They are found in every country. This is to be expected for they all have the same Father in Heaven, and each child of His has sparks of divinity within it. The subject of this sketch was American-born. She was chosen for study because she was in contact with and a part of the life of Utah from the earliest days until the present time, 1937. Her parents, Alfred B. Lambson and Melissa Bigler Lambson, who lived in Nauvoo, were well acquainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith and were sincerely devoted to their new religion and the Church. They left Nauvoo with the exodus of the Saints in 1846 and began the trying and difficult journey to the West. Reaching Winter Quarters, Nebraska, on the Missouri River, the father prepared a dugout to house his family during their stay in the place and through the Winter of 1846-47. It was here their first child was born and named Melissa Jane. This was November 13, 1846. In the Spring the Lambsons left to go with a company of Saints to the Rocky Mountains. Of course, the baby Melissa could remember nothing of the long and trying journey across the plains. Suffice it to say, her family arrived in the Great Salt Lake Valley in September, 1847, only a few weeks after President Brigham Young and his company reached there. Her father soon began to build an adobe (sun-dried brick) house for the family, and when he finished it the following year, it was the first home in the Valley to have plastered rooms. But the plaster, like the adobes, was made of mud. The few nails used in the house were forged from wagon tires by her father on his anvil, Factory nails were not to be had. Even home-made ones were so scarce they had to be used very sparingly. In the early days in the Valley to live was to work hard, to do without all kinds of conveniences, to make the few simple necessary things? houses, furniture, clothes, etc., and to eat the simplest foods. Everyone worked and suffered; but all were optimistic and happy. They endured all kinds of privations uncomplainingly, for they were free. They had left persecution far behind. The air was pure, the sunshine bright, the LESSON DEPARTMENT enduring mountains, their shelter. That God was with them they never doubted. That He tried them severely they knew. Is not fine gold purified in the fiery furnace? They must prove themselves to be worthy of God's blessings. Out of their struggles would rise a great people to go as messengers of glad tidings to the nations of the earth, and to build beautiful temples at home. To worship God and build up His Church was their great objective. To this end the parched land must be subdued and made habitable. So all set to work with a hearty goodwill. Melissa Jane, like all the other children of the time, grew up with the country, willingly doing her part as conditioned by her age. In childhood she saw her mother spin cotton and wool, weave the yarn into cloth, dye it with colors extracted from native weeds, cut it into patterns from which she made the family clothes. Most other mothers among the Pioneers did these things also. They made their knitted goods, wove their rag carpets, milked cows, made butter and cheese, raised fowls, tended their children, kept their homes and encouraged their husbands to worthy deeds. Yes, the women worked long hours and so did the men. But all were optimistic and happy, especially the children. They were robust and healthful, therefore bubbling over with joyous youth as normal children are wont to do when circumstances permit. President Young was a wise and able leader. He knew that wholesome recreation was necessary to the welfare of his people. He encouraged them to sing and dance and engage in innocent amusements. He enjoyed music, drama and _ social gatherings. And so one of the earliest public buildings erected in Salt Lake City was the Social Hall, a 681 place where all these things could be indulged in. This was later followed by the Salt Lake Theater, built in 1868, which became noted all over the dramatic world, on the stage of which many of the best English and American dramatists appeared. As she grew up Melissa Jane learned to do the things she saw her mother do. Being the eldest child in the family, she was naturally called upon early in life to help with the younger children, and then gradually to help in other household work. Sooner or later she shared with her mother in doing the various types of work incident to the household. To indicate the thrift of the home, Melissa Jane relates that when seven years old she was greatly in need of a new dress. One day while playing in the yard she found an old bacon sack that some Government surveyors had thrown away. She took it to her mother. The latter made some lye by soaking wood ashes. In this she soaked the sack to remove the grease. From some weeds a coloring substance was obtained and the sack dyed brown. From this the waist was made and the skirt from a piece of blue denim. Many years later when recalling these incidents, Melissa Jane exclaimed, "My, how proud I was of my new dress!" Her parents, believing in education, as all Latter-day Saint parents were taught to do, sent Melissa to school during the school seasons of her girlhood years. Of course, the schools in those early days were poorly equipped physically. The rooms were usually small, poorly heated and ventilated, supplied only with crude furniture and wholly unattractive. But they were richly provided with something money cannot buy?sincerity, purity of purpose and the spirit of love. The atmosphere of the schools was wholesome, 682 indeed. Faith in God was the comnon possession of pupils and teacher. Melissa Jane remembers one of the most exciting episodes in early Utah history?the coming of Johnston's Army. She vividly remembers the consternation produced by the announcement to 2,500 picnickers at the head of Big Cottonwood Canyon, 25 miles from Salt Lake City, that a United States Army was on its way to Utah. In Missouri and Illinois the Mormons had been pillaged, driven and killed by State troops. They had fled from civilization and suffered heart-breaking agonies to find a place where they could live in peace among the mountains of the tar-away West. Now an unfriendly army was coming against them. This news reached them when they were on holiday to celebrate the tenth anniversary, July 24, 1857, of the coming of the Pioneers to the Valley. The next day they returned to their homes with heavy hearts, for they were to move again and burn their homes rather than let them fall into the hands of their rapacious enemies. But it was not necessary for them to destroy their homes. The sending of the soldiers was due to a great blunder of the President of the United States. When the misunderstandings had been cleared up, Johnston's Army entered the Valley peacefully, marched through Salt Lake City and made their camp forty miles southwest of the City. Melissa Jane said, "Though the coming of Johnston's Army was a most distressing episode, it proved to be a blessing in disguise. It was the means of providing the people with new wagons, needed supplies, etc., which the soldiers traded for grain and other farm crops." Thus again the Lord overruled evil and good resulted. We have spoken above of some RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE types of recreation in which the people indulged in those days. Of course, there were others. Speaking of her recreations Melissa Jane says: "We had our good times; we had corn husking 'bees', rag 'bees', candy pulls, etc. The candy was made by boiling down homemade molasses to a thick consistency and 'pulling' it. During the fruit season the girls would often get together in the afternoons and prepare fruit for ? drying. In the evening the boys would come for dancing. Many times we bought our tickets to shows and theaters with farm products? grain, fruits, vegetables, etc. I remember exchanging a squash or pumpkin for a ticket to the Salt Lake Theater. "We dried a great deal of fruit. I dried peaches and exchanged them at the store for goods to make my wedding dress. We felt it was a real luxury to have a dress of 'store goods'." Such a dress made her wedding a particularly happy event, which took place November 25, 1865. She married Albert Wesley Davis. But he had no home of his own to which he could take his bride. So they lived for more than a year in one room of her father's house. Here their first child was born. In those days young people were taught the desirability of marriage. They were advised not to wait until they had a marriage stake?home and property. Girls knew how to make and keep a home. They expected to be real help-meets to their husbands. A girl thrilled at the thought of helping her husband to make a home. Melissa Jane Davis was this kind of a wife. Shortly after the birth of their second baby, the Davis family was called to go to the Muddy country, just beyond the present southwest corner of Utah, to help settle the region. In the early days in Utah, LESSON DEPARTMENT President Young frequently ''called" a group of families to go out to some designated place and make their homes there. Many of the Mormon towns in all the country round-about had their beginning by settlers thus called. Thus the people were spread out, the available farm lands occupied and room made for the stream of emigrants that was flowing into Salt Lake City. But these colonizing ventures did not always succeed. The country was new. 'The climatic conditions were not well known. People had not lived here long enough to learn the vagaries of the weather. Among the very few failures was the venture on which the Davis family was called. The country during the summer was hot and dry. The rains were not spread over the season. They came in the late summer after long periods of dryness in the form of cloud-bursts, causing floods. The Davis family responded to the call and went into the inhospitable country. Their bedroom was a wagon box. Their kitchen was a cone-shaped enclosure made by driving stakes into the ground and weaving willows through them. It had a door with willow hinges but no windows. This structure was patterned after an Indian "wickiup." Their food was scarce, and they ate anything they could get. Some of the people lived on wild segos?small bulbs dug from the soil of the surrounding country. The summer heat was so intense that Sister Davis had to wrap wet cloths about her head to endure it. She said they all came down with the ague, and she went to bed every other day with chills. But a worse misfortune awaited them. The heavy rains resulted in floods that rushed away their crops leaving them wholly destitute. Seeing their pitiable situation President 683 Young released the settlers from the call to reclaim the region and told them to move wherever they wanted to go. The Davis family returned to Salt Lake City, and were helped by relatives "to get on their feet." After finally recovering from the ague, they moved across the Jordan River on to a farm where they built a modest home in which they lived for many years, their children in the meantime numbering three sons and six daughters. The hard work on the farm was varied by public activities. Her husband became Bishop of the Ward, was a member for many years of the City Council of Salt Lake City, filled two missions for the Church, attended to other public duties and finally was ordained a Patriarch. Sister Davis also faithfully did her part, supporting her husband in all his activities, besides working in women's organizations. When their family was raised, she was called with her husband as an ordinance worker in the Salt Lake Temple. Sister Davis passed away, August 26, 1937 in her ninety-first year. The quality of her motherhood and service in the Church is indicated by her posterity. Her living posterity at this date consists of 7 children, 30 grandchildren, 43 great-grandchildren, and 2 great-great-grandchildren. Both sons have been on missions, have served in Bishoprics and several other Church positions; the daughters are all active Church workers, one of them on the Relief Society General Board, another on the Primary General Board, and another was a Relief Society General Board member when she died. The others are working on Stake and Ward Boards. All the daughters and many of the grandchildren have been or are now members of choirs. All grandsons who are old enough
684
hold positions in the Priesthood quorums and in auxiliary organizations. Her posterity is "true to the faith." They have seen in her righteous life an example worthy of emulation.
Questions For Discussion
1. Point out that Melissa Jane Davis was "born of goodly parents."
2. What qualities of character did her parents exhibit?
3. Which of these qualities did Sister Davis exhibit?
4. Tell why the journey from Nauvoo to Salt Lake City was trying and difficult.
5. Tell why her parents came to Salt Lake City.
 . Outline some of the conditions prevailing in Salt Lake City during the first years.
7. Name one or two things President Young did that show he was a wise and able leader.
8. What school advantages did Melissa have?
9. What were the motives that took Melissa's parents to the Muddy country?
10. Tell why you think she was a good wife and mother.
11. A fine posterity proves fine qualities in the parents, especially in the mother. Point out that Sister Davis' faith and nobility of character were rewarded.
Child Guidance Lesson 4
SEX EDUCATION
CURIOSITY about sex is as natural to the child as his inquiries about how the moon got up in the sky or what makes the flowers bloom. The great problem in sex education is to teach the child that home is the most reliable and ready source of sex information he can find. Restraints of good taste require that sex questions be discussed privately. But the child should not be made to feel that all that pertains to sex is low and wicked. Lack of reliable knowledge and repression of all discussion leads to a furtive interest which is finally satisfied in the alley. This information is not only unreliable, but it is tainted with vulgarism, which is an obstacle to the proper idealizing of love.
A child is curious about sex at first in exactly the same manner as he is curious about the beating of his heart or the working of his stomach. There is nothing wicked in his thoughts. Physically he is not mature sexually until he is about fifteen years of age. Sex, therefore, does not mean the same thing to him that it does to an adult whose moral attitudes about the whole problem are highly developed. Adult attitudes are so different from those of the child that children's questions are most likely to embarrass their parents. The child asks questions out of sheer curiosity in all it sees; the parent answers with expressions of shame and secrecy?and these are adult attitudes which in no way satisfy the child's need for information. When the parent scolds a child for asking where babies come from, she makes him afraid to ask that question again and many others that trouble his mind. A sense of shame is easily cultivated in the child,
LESSON DEPARTMENT
and this feeling drives him from his mother's side to children in the streets or back yards for his information. Curiosity is not checked by refusal of information, but is rather stimulated and made secretive. Children will find some kind of answers to their questions whether we relish the thought or not.
An unfortunate result of refusing unemotional and truthful answers to sex questions is that the parent alienates herself from the child in a field in which her wise counsel will be most needed later on. Some parents fear that the child will lose his innocence when he is told the truth, and that knowledge will somehow lead to experiment. In sex education, knowledge must come before experiment. Knowledge properly given will probably dispose, to a certain extent, of the desire and need for experiment. Secret sex experiments and the resulting perversions undoubtedly often arise and persist because the inquiring child is driven from his mother's side to secret places where there are no controls over his conduct. In other words, to guide the child's sex development, the mother must keep him coming to her with his questions.
Children occasionally ask sex questions as early as two years. The period of greatest questioning comes between four and ten years, and quite a large per cent ask their first sex question at five years. Questions most frequently asked pertain to the origin of babies, coming of another baby, growth before birth, the process of birth, sex organs and their functions, physical differences between the sexes, the father's part in reproduction and the meaning of marriage.
A mother must have some sort of accurate knowledge of the facts be-
685
fore she can answer these questions reliably. To the question. "Where do babies come from?" such answers as "From Heaven" or "God sends them" are theologically correct, but not suited to the intellectual needs of the child. He may seek more details from an unreliable and vulgar source if you do not supply them.
For a small child, four or five years old, surprisingly simple but accurate answers often satisfy. An example follows:
Billy, six years old, asked his mother 'What did I grow from?"
Mother: "You grew from a tiny cell, much tinier than the point of a pin. You lived in my body until you were strong enough and large enough to be born. Then you came outside."
Billy: "Why do mothers go to the hospital?"
Mother: "Because a doctor has to help the baby come out, and has to cut and tie the cord through which the mother feeds the stomach of the baby. The mother is rather tired by the time this has happened, so she stays and rests a few days at the hospital."
Billy: (throwing arms around Mother): "Oh, poor mother!"
Mother: "Oh, it isn't 'poor Mother', Billy, at all. Mother is so happy to have a new baby."
Billy: "Well, I wouldn't want it to happen to me!"
To speak to a child in this manner is not easy for most parents. Use of the proper names for sex organs and the steps in reproduction relieves some of the emotional tension. Correct terms are preferred because they can be found in scientific literature which the child will need in his later education, and because correct terms are not emotionally colored as is the slang of the street. Analogies from domestic animals,
686
birds and plants are often useful, partly because a child's curiosity often arises from watching their mating and growth. Sometimes a chicken which is being prepared in the kitchen is useful in illustrating what is meant by eggs or seeds and the appropriate comparison drawn to the human body.
When parents are advised to freely impart knowledge of this kind, certain cautions are to be kept in mind. First, the curiosity of the child should be the guide as to how much should be told. Mental growth of the child will call for more information at different stages of development. But he should not be put off by "Oh, you are too young to ask questions like that." Some questions cannot be fully explained to the child until his mind grows to a certain stage, but there is no excuse for not making an attempt to satisfy the child with something as near the full truth as he can grasp.
This freedom of conversation between parent and child should always be qualified by a certain good taste that calls for a degree of privacy, if not secrecy. The child should be taught that sex questions are private among themselves in the home, that just as people do not enter others' houses without their clothes on, neither should they talk about sex with people outside the home. If a child comes in with a vulgar expression from the street, the parent should realize that he has not yet acquired all of the emotional associations of the words that an adult has. The mother should teach the child the correct words and show him that they are the ones used by the home folks and that it is a home matter that should not be talked about on the street, nor generally with groups of people even at home. Careful cautioning will soon teach
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
most children the good taste of not raising sex questions in public and not carrying newly acquired information to everyone in the neighborhood. This accomplished, the parents' problem is greatly simplified, and much of the strain of the educational program is removed.
An intelligent program of sex education throughout pre-adolescence (up to about twelve or thirteen years) should keep relations of companionship between the parents and child that make possible the lending of a helping hand through the troubled years of romance. Most children cease asking questions after ten years of age, perhaps because the parents have closed the door by then through withholding information and by administering lectures which show a lack of understanding of the child's problems. Adolescents have problems which require more intelligent help than ever before in their lives, and useful is the parent who is still "in with" her child at this age. If the proper attitudes and controls have been developed during the previous years, the adolescent child will be well fortified to meet his problems. This would mean that he has been well prepared for marriage and family life by having acquired a proper knowledge of sex matters such as would tend to free him from some of the emotional handicaps that lack of knowledge often produces, and handicaps that so frequently contribute to the difficulties that interfere with marital happiness. At the same time, close harmony between the parent and child should have cultivated the controls that make him desirable as a virtuous candidate for marriage.
Home, including both parents, should be the primary source of knowledge and ideals in sex education. However, there is no question
LESSON DEPARTMENT
but that M. I. A. Activities and courses of study are important influences in harnessing the vital energies at a critical period of life, and in engendering the family ideals which characterize the Latter-day Saint home. To teach that happy home and love life is the reward of good living is a far more promising educational procedure than to emphasize too much the punishments of a wicked life. Latter-day Saint ideals of home life are invaluable incentives toward wholesome living. Sex education should be directed toward making the home more secure and more happy.
Problems for Discussion
1. Contrast the attitude of the child toward sex questions with the
687
attitude of the adult. Why are their attitudes so different? 2. Discuss the courageousness of the parent who "turns off" all of the child's sex questions because to discuss them is "so embarrassing." What evil arises from "silence"? 3. What is your opinion as to whether sex information tends to preserve or destroy the virtue of the child? 4. State some cautions you think are important in guiding the parent in giving information to the child. 5. What part should "good taste" play in sex education? Distinguish between good taste on the one hand, and evasion, prudish shame and secrecy on the other hand.