Her Husband's Religion By Luacine Clark Fox
(The scene is laid in the living-room of Mrs. Gilbert. There are signs of disorder about, and several suit-cases (one of which is open disclosing its contents of clothes, etc.) which tell us that Mrs. Gilbert is unpacking. On the left side of the stage are two chairs; at the right side of the table is another chair. Mrs. Gilbert pauses in her unpacking and crosses to the phone.)
Mrs. GILBERT: Wasatch 9403. Yes, please. (Aside) Now, let's see. I'll have to have my hair waved, and order my groceries. I suppose I'll need tomatoes, and lettuce. Perhaps some crackers... (into the telephone again) Hello? Oh, hello, Edith. This is Susan. Susan Gilbert. Oh, we got in yesterday.. Isn't it the truth? I'm so busy I don't know what to do.. I've had nothing but callers all morning, and the telephone has simply rung its head off... Tom? Oh, he's fine. (By this time the teachers, Sister Blair and Sister Stewart have reached the door, and knock just after she says "He's fine.') Wait just a minute, Edith. There's someone at the door. Just a minute. (She crosses to the door and opens it. For this door the backstage center entrance is preferable.)
Mrs. GILBERT: Yes?
SISTER BLAIR: Is this Mrs. Gilbert?
Mrs. GILBERT: Yes, I am she.
SISTER BLAIR: We are the Relief Society teachers, Mrs. Gilbert. This is Sister Stewart, and I am Sister Blair. If you aren't busy, we'd like to come in a moment and talk with you. We have a message for you, too.
Mrs. GILBERT: Well, I'm not at all interested. My husband is a Mormon, but I... well, I used to be an Episcopalian, but I'm not much of anything, now.
SISTER STEWART: Then, perhaps you have a message for us as well.
Mrs. GILBERT: Well, really, I'm not awfully interested.
SISTER BLAIR: I see you're just unpacking. Couldn't we help you? We'd love to, though we don't wish to annoy.
Mrs. GILBERT: Well, come in, then. (Reluctantly) You'll have to sit where you can. If you'll excuse me, I was on the telephone.
SISTER BLAIR: Thank you. (Sister Blair sits in the chair at the extreme left, and Sister Stewart occupies the one Left Center.)
Mrs. GILBERT: (At phone again) Edith, I've some callers. (Laughs) The Relief Society teachers! (Laughs again) Yes, I know. I've told them that, but they're going to try to convert me anyway... Yes, I'll call you back. Goodbye. (hangs up receiver.)
SISTER BLAIR: Isn't there something we can do? We'd love to help you.
HER HUSBAND'S RELIGION
Mrs. GILBERT: No, thank you. I'll just stop. The rest will do me good anyway. (She sits in the chair by the table.) Now, what is this message?
SISTER STEWART: Did you say that you don't belong to any religion?
Mrs. GILBERT: Yes, I believe I said that.
SISTER STEWART: That's a very interesting statement. You do have, I suppose, some philosophy by which you govern your home, teach your children, and so on?
Mrs. GILBERT: Oh, I think everyone does. Yes, I have one. Kindness to my fellow-men. I feel that as long as I live the best I know how, and don't hurt anyone, I've done my part. Oh, (gives a little laugh), I don't always live up to it, but I guess you'd call that my religion—Kindness.
Sister BLAIR: Do you know that so many people we meet have that same philosophy? It's a very beautiful one.
Mrs. GILBERT: Is it?
SISTER BLAIR: Yes.
Mrs. GILBERT: What you have just said interests me greatly. I had always understood that you Mormons felt your religion to be the only thing that was right. I have never heard such a statement before from any sect.
SISTER BLAIR: Well, we do think that our Church is right, Mrs. Gilbert, but we also know that there is truth in every religion. All that is beautiful and good comes from the Lord. All truth comes from Him. In fact, in your philosophy you have partially uttered His great Formula for Eternal Life.
Mrs. GILBERT: Have I? What is that? I'm afraid I'm not up on my scriptures. It's so easy to neglect such things.
SISTER STEWART: Let me read it to you. (Takes out Relief Society Magazine.) It's in Luke, tenth chapter, twenty-fifth to twenty-eighth verses, if you care to follow.
Mrs. GILBERT: No, you go ahead.
SISTER STEWART: (Reading) "And behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
"And He said unto him, What is written in the law? How readest thou?
"And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind: and thy neighbor as thyself."
SISTER BLAIR: You see, love thy neighbor as thyself sums up your philosophy, doesn't it?
Mrs. GILBERT: Yes.
SISTER BLAIR: Well, we believe there is more. The Lord says, "If you love me you will keep my commandments," and there you have our, well, we'll call it philosophy.
Mrs. GILBERT: You know... Well, I don't know why I'm telling you all this, but I was raised in a very strict Episcopalian family. Their do's and don'ts seemed very foolish to me. I was a healthy, ambitious youngster, and I wanted to have fun. I missed the Sunday frolics that my chums had. Even when I met my husband, much as I loved him, I wasn't interested in his religious views, I was prejudiced, I guess.
SISTER BLAIR: Well, that's a very normal reaction, Mrs. Gilbert. But, tell me, have you never felt the need of something greater? Have you never sensed a higher Power?
Mrs. GILBERT: I don't know why I'm letting you talk to me like this. You're stirring up in me something I thought was dead. You're so kind to me, and that's my philosophy. But
648
you seem to have something more. Kindness is only a by-product, so to speak.
SISTER STEWART: We do have something more. We have the absolute conviction that God lives now, today. And furthermore, that the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints contains the fulness of His Gospel, and that it is the only Church. That's what we have.
Mrs. GILBERT: I wish I could say that. Truthfully, I do.
Sister BLAIR: You can, Mrs. Gilbert. Let me give you the reference that Joseph Smith read in the Bible. James, first chapter and fifth verse.
Mrs. GILBERT: James, first chapter and fifth verse.
SISTER BLAIR: (Nods.) Yes. It led him to go into the grove and kneel down and pray. He asked the Lord which church was the true one. The Lord answered his prayer, and He will answer yours.
Mrs. GILBERT: (Wipes tears from her eyes) Forgive me. I don't know what's the matter with me. You're so kind to me. You know, I've always made fun of the Mormons. And then you come and are so nice to me. It's rather like the story they used to tell us in Sunday School, you know, the Good Samaritan. You've been that to me.
SISTER STEWART: And that is our message. That is our topic for this month. (Gives her card.) The Good Samaritan.
Mrs. GILBERT: Wait just a moment. (Goes for purse, takes bill from it.) I'd like to give you just a little something for your organization. Here. (Gives bill to Sister Stewart.)
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
SISTER STEWART: Thank you. We can use this in our charity fund.
SISTER BLAIR: Come to our meeting next Tuesday, Mrs. Gilbert. We'd love to have you. Next Tuesday is our work and business day. You'll find the other meetings listed on the card we gave you. And the first Tuesday in every month is always our Theology lesson. We would be glad to stop by for you.
Mrs. GILBERT: I'll try. I just wish my husband could experience what I have this day.
SISTER STEWART: You can pass the message on.
Mrs. GILBERT: I'm sorry I was rude at first. I didn't live up to my philosophy of kindness, did I?
SISTER STEWART: You weren't rude. We just didn't understand each other, that's all. Goodbye. (Shakes hand).
Mrs. GILBERT: Goodbye (shakes hands with Sister Blair.) Come again, won't you?
SISTER BLAIR: I will. (They exit)
Mrs. GILBERT: (Goes to the door and looks out after them. She glances over at the table where the Bible is, then looks out after them again. She seems undecided, but slowly walks to the table, repeating "James, first chapter, fifth verse." She picks up the Bible, hesitates a moment longer, then slowly opens it and looks through till she finds the quotation. She is very much moved, and reads aloud from it in a low voice the following words, as the curtain slowly drops) "If any of you lack wisdom let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him."
(At door)