VoL. XXIV OCTOBER, 1937 No. 10 Editorial Tasks Worth the Doing T is a joy to see how many places of worship are now made attractive both outside and inside. There is a spirit present when buildings and grounds are well kept that all feel. It has often been remarked that the Temple Block preaches the Gospel because it is so beautiful. Tourists often say "What a wonderful spirit there is-on this Block." "THE efforts being put forth by the Church will doubtless result in every meeting house being made attractive, a suitable place for worship. We notice too how much pride people are taking in making the grounds surrounding their homes attractive. It need cost very little. A package of petunia, or zinnia, or marigold seed, etc., may bring joy throughout the summer. The trees, shrubs, and flowers that are exchanged by friends or bought at small cost not only give satisfaction and pleasure to those who live in the home but to every passerby. Beauty does something to us, so each householder who makes his home a place of beauty confers a benefit on all who have eyes to see it. THE Relief Society will do well to emphasize the importance of making every home clean and attractive, the surroundings well kept and beautiful. Making a home is no small task. It requires many gifts and graces. If each woman would take pride in doing the many household tasks skillfully, she would find joy in the homely duties, for there is always satisfaction in a thing well done. As an organization we shall find joy in doing our part to further the Beautification Project of the Church. We shall also find deep satisfaction this season in training the women in our midst to EDITORIAL make an art of housekeeping, so that their places of abode will manifest orderliness and beauty. Teaching how to make good bread will be another activity that the Relief Society will engage in 667 this year. In the organization meetings it should be pointed out what constitutes good _ bread. (There are some people who think they make very good bread when in reality it is very poor.)