But leave the highways of life and the bustle of men, leave your dislikes and your worries behind, leave all that connects you to your present life, and go into the silence and solitude of the forest or mountain and stand alone with Nature and the Great Spirit. "Then will come to you mystic and mighty visitors, magic artists to paint upon the canvas of your mind ultimate truths. Then will you behold a vision of the thoughts and deeds by which men come closer to the everlasting altars." Then will be whispered into your heart, softly as the falling of snow at eventide, peace and an assurance of Divinity. O illustrate this last point in closing, a few years ago, in company with six other men, we took a two week's pack trip into the central part of Idaho. After a week's travel we came near the middle fork of the Salmon River. Mr. Scribner, the forest supervisor who was a member of our group, told us that up to that time only two parties had ever been known to traverse the entire forty mile box canyon of the river below us. This stream is often spoken of as the "River-of-no-return". We made camp for the night, and soon after daylight the next morning, we started on foot down a steep and rough trail to the bottom of the canyon. Three of us reached the river, and while the other two fished, I spent the day exploring downstream. Upon rounding a sharp point of rocks the scene before my eyes thrilled me. As far as I could follow the river it was the same mad rushing stream, full of rapids, whirlpools, and boulders, with occasional still pools where the water halted expectantly before rushing headlong into the next maelstrom. The can- GOD IN NATURE yon walls rose in sheer majesty of solid rock hundreds of feet, only to be broken and rise again, and yet a third time before it looked safe for a novice to try to climb. The colors were not brilliant, but one could see shades of brown gradually being replaced by those of pink and red, with occasional spots of black or green, while the dull grey of granite formed a background on which the tapestry of other colors was woven. In sharp contrast to the rocks, the vegetation stood out in brilliant hues. The fir, spruce, and lodgepole pine at the higher and less precipitous elevations appeared as huge black patches, while hanging precariously onto the ledges of the lower levels, the majestic yellow pine made one almost fear for their safety. Lichens of vivid hues covered patches of perpendicular rocks where other plants could not get a foothold. Chokecherries, service berries and other shrubs filled in much of the space between the trees, while lillies-ofthe-valley, scarlet gilia, bluebells, and giant asters made a gorgeous color scheme before my eyes. At my feet and near a clear, beautiful spring, from which I drank, stood a magnificent bed of columbine, and shyly peeping from under the moss along its edge were a number of purple violets, their color all the more vivid by contrast to the blazing, large, orange blossoms of the mimulus that grew in the water. The pebbles, over which the water gaily babbled, were covered with a green and brown 657 growth of algae. In fact, as I surveyed the scene, I became aware that all possible space was being used to. Its fullest extent by plant growth. Nor were the animals absent. A crayfish and its young were creeping about in the spring, water beetles dived and played in the water, while a green worm slowly crawled from his hiding under a leaf and disappeared under the bank. A trout nearby in the river occasionally leaped into the air to get an insect, and splashed back into the water. A blue-jay and a grey squirrel above in the magnificent yellow pine alternately scolded each other and me for being intruded upon. A deer shyly came out of the brush down stream and began drinking from the river, while overhead soared an eagle surveying all below. As I turned my eyes from the things about me and looked down the canyon, the purple haze formed a filmy curtain that my eyes could not penetrate. I looked upward into the blue of sky with its few fleecy clouds floating lazily about, and_ rapidly sinking in the west was the sun, shedding its life-giving rays on all below. I lay and dreamed of what was beyond the purple haze and the vivid blue, what made the flowers grow and bloom, why the river had cut sucha gorgeous canyon, what gave me the intelligence to appreciate nature, and there welled up within my heart a certainty that God was present in Nature and that all was well with the world.