God in Nature By Ray J. Davis
"Dear heart, perhaps you can not find God's hand Or see His face through some hour of despair. Do not be grieved; go seek the good, clean land, And you will find Him there,
"Wander awhile down some still wooded way; Stoop to the lichen, dig through the mossy sod. Stir in the leafmold—and the feathery spray Of a fern can show you God."
TO worship God is at times the most natural thing a man can do, for the urge of the spirit whispers to the Divinity within, that man must pay homage to the God in all nature. The greatest truths are often those that are felt, not those obtained by rationalism. Men trained in the fields of science often allow this latter type of facts to exclude the former from their minds, but tonight I wish to use both fields in my discussion. To me, Nature seems to say that the world is not a materialistic mechanism made by blind chance, but a spiritual plan well conceived and beautifully executed by a Master-mind who has made his work so perfect that only those who study carefully all sides are able to see the hand of the Maker in the design. It shall be my purpose to reveal to you an intelligent design in Nature, and if I am successful, will you be willing to grant that there must be an intelligent Designer behind it? Suppose we liken Nature to a piece of tapestry. For our purpose we shall choose one with five figures on it: a forest-clad mountain at one side with spire-like peaks; a lake nestled at its base near the center of the picture; a meadow with a sparkling river winding through it at the other side; a clump of snow-white lilies at the edge of the lake in the foreground; and fifth and finally a beautiful girl in the full bloom of youth standing at one side entranced by the scene. Remember this piece of tapestry must be made of strong cords for the warp, while the harmony of the design and color must be made by deftly weaving into it threads of various hues. Can you conceive of 'chance' alone making such a picture? Now in Nature we may liken her unchanging laws to the warp in a similar piece of tapestry, while the weft, forming the harmony of color in the design, we will liken to the work of the Master-artist as his intelligence plays upon the forces of Nature forming patterns before which mortals stand in reverence. We shall start this tapestry study by viewing the physical attributes of man himself. I, personally, am five feet nine inches tall, weigh about one hundred and seventy-five pounds, and possess a certain quality that we call intelligence. If I could stretch my five feet nine inches of height to millions of times and this figure multiplied by billions, I would faintly approach the diameter of some of the large bodies of the Universe. A similar statement would be true of my weight. Now in the other direction. If I should divide my five feet nine inches of height by millions multiplied by billions we should faintly approach the minuteness of some of the smaller things of Nature. It is true that man stands approximately on the median line between the largest and the smallest
654
things known, but it also seems equally true that his intelligence is greater than all this, because it is able to conceive it all.
ON a clear night when the sky is a blaze of brilliant diamonds against a deep blue curtain, the magnitude and grandeur of the Universe may well overawe us. Our own earth on which we live is indeed a minor speck in the immensity of organized matter. This small planet is accompanied by eight others which, with their moons, travel about the sun. The laws governing their rotations and revolutions are known to man, and can be measured with the greatest of accuracy. Our sun in turn, pulling its planets with it, revolves about another big sun, and this big sun in its turn revolves about another large attractive center. All of the stars visible to the naked eye are hardly a millionth part of the stars that make up the system to which our sun belongs. All of these bodies revolve about their respective centers with an accuracy that startles the mind of man. The diameter of such an organization would be the distance that light, traveling at the speed of 186,000 miles per second, would cover in some thirty millions of years. Far out beyond our own "Milky-way" system lies thousands of other such units each being controlled by, and helping to control still others. Surely one is impressed with the magnitude and accuracy of this great design when only partially understood. Now let us return in thought to man. He is made up of numerous organs, each of these of different types of tissues, and these in turn are composed of small living units called cells. These cells also are composed of many smaller units RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE which function together to make life possible within the cell. These facts, however, are but a start in our mental trip to the smallest things known. The units within the cell are composed of numerous particles that we call molecules, each of which is made up of few or many atoms. The atom, in turn, is made up of a nucleus of positive and negative electrons, around which at comparatively enormous distances revolve few or many particles of electricity at tremendous speeds. In all of this intricate mechanism we see a similar plan. The same intelligent design is found in an atom, a molecule, a cell, a man, or the Universe as a whole. Would 'chance' likely build all of these on the same pattern? This fact we shall call our first figure on our piece of tapestry. WHEN one studies the development of any animal, beginning with the fertilized egg and watching it through adult life, one is impressed with the accuracy shown. One fertilized starfish egg ordinarily produces one adult starfish, but if two such eggs are kept in contact they will fuse together, and each will produce one-half of a normal amimal. Or a person can take a developing embryo of this same animal, and by shaking the loosely united cells apart, cause each separate cell to develop into a normal starfish, so that there are four or eight instead of one. They have also taken these embryos and forced them through fine meshed screens, stirred the cells about, then by placing them in contact, a normal animal is still formed. The cells that began to form the arms may now be forming the disc and vice versa, but the important thing is that a normal body is formed. Ii an egg be placed between two panes of glass, the embryo will be as flat as paper, but if the glass be removed GOD IN NATURE soon enough, the animal will still develop normally. What is it that always causes these cells to form a body of the same design? ES, you may be thinking, but this is a low form of life. How about the higher forms? Well, let us discuss man. One fertilized egg normally produces one person, but occasionally an embryo gets shaken apart into two or three groups of cells. Each group will now develop into a normal person, or a pair of identical twins, or occasionally triplets are born. Five children from one egg, the Dionne quintuplets, were probably formed in this way. During the development of the body an arm bud must be formed at just the right stage. The arm grows with the skin, muscles, nerves, blood vessels and bones always in the right place. At just the right time an elbow must form, then a wrist, then the fingers and their joints. One sees very few abnormal arms compared to the number of normal ones. So, when you think of the whole body, with the brain, which is much more intricate, may I ask you what made the cells form this particular design so many times with such few mistakes? This power of living cells we shall call our second figure on our tapestry. Now let us turn to the mind of man. It develops and grows with use. Non-living things wear out when used, but here is something which, if placed in a good body and used properly, it continues to improve until death. Even the living body may in time wear out, but not the mind if it is used prudently. This mind grows, conceives of love, beauty and spirituality, and reaches upward to the higher things of life as a. Flower reaches for the sun. True, the animal part of man pulls 655 him back, but behind the scenes of everyone's life is found this desire for the best. Aren't you willing to admit that there may be something more powerful than man's own intelligence when his intelligence is attracted toward this higher force? This, I shall call my third figure on our tapestry. FOLLOWING another line of reasoning, one is amazed at the accuracy of the happenings of Nature. Of the countless numbers of snow flakes that fall, we have never found two exactly alike, and yet the same general pattern, a center with six rays running out from it, is found in every one. A man in New England spent the major part of his life photographing snow flakes, and of the thousands of pictures taken, no two were identical in detail, but the same pattern was present in all. Another example of the accuracy of Nature's laws may be given. Recently several groups of scientists went to the southern hemisphere to study a total eclipse of the sun. For years they planned this venture. Some went to the mainland of South America, some to the islands of the sea, and some used ships placed at the most favorable location. The amazing thing was that each group knew to the second when the eclipse would begin at their point. Think of the speed of the sun flying through space, think of the earth revolving about the sun at its high velocity, then the moon, too, traveling about the earth. Now years in advance man told the exact spot on the earth and the exact time that the moon would pass directly between the sun and the earth and cast its shadow on a small part of our planet. Do these examples impress you with the superhuman exactness in Nature's functioning? This infinite 656 accuracy will be our fourth figure on our piece of art. OUR study of law has been from the simple to the complex. From times before history, man knew of lightning, but it was a long time before he discovered electricity, and it was Benjamin Franklin that demonstrated that the two were the same. We learned how to make electricity, use it for light, then in a motor, and finally for radio. It has been only the last few years that we really knew what electricity was, and we are now in the process of learning that all matter is nothing but electricity. We know of what the XRays, made by electricity, are composed, but what is the significance of the new Cosmic Rays just discovered? They are the most powerful thing known, shooting clear through fourteen feet of lead and still manifest on the other side. Are we yet likely to find a more powerful force? No one in his right mind would dare say "no" after studying the past, and if science uses this history as a basis, it could with good reason answer, "in all probability we will." My contention is that a Divine Power, more important than all else, is at work in the Universe. My reasons for saying this are: first, the fundamental design on which the Universe and all in it are built speaks of an Intelligent Creator. Second, living cells possess a power that is at present superhuman when they form tissues and bodies. Third, the exactness of Nature could hardly be brought about by 'chance'. Fourth, the intelligence possessed by Man himself indicates that such a force is present in the Universe. Fifth, and finally, man instinctively feels at times that God is present. Reason often plays little part in this conviction of God's existence. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Reason is cold and indifferent and often stifles such emotions.