Little Moments of Eternity WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM?
FEAR Take Time For Reassurance By Lella Marler Hoggan
"I have no fear! What is in store for me Shall find me self-reliant, undismayed. God grant my only cowardice may be Afraid—to be afraid!" —Everard Jack Appleton.
Is the fear fiend shadowing your footsteps? Does some dread omen, some ghostly premonition lurk at every turn of your path? From childhood to old age we are menaced by irritating worries and haunting fears. The child is afraid of the dark, of the bogie man, of the big stick. Later on he fears examinations, ridicule, lack of money. In middle life no greater bugaboo looms ahead of men and women than the apprehension of failure. And when age begins to make his demands one is assailed by countless misgivings. What fear is affronting you on the pathway of life? Is it sickness, pain or poverty, or is it old age, dependence, death? The psychologists name security and achievement as the two greatest needs of childhood. Are not these also essential factors of happiness for maturity? What condition is more hopeless to the adult than insecurity and failure to achieve the dreams of youth? A person who feels the foundation of his world tottering under his feet has no appreciation of the blessings with which he is surrounded. And many times the sense of instability is due almost entirely to exaggerated fears rather than to actual alarming conditions.
FEAR is easier to induce than to cure. It is not only unreasonable but cruel
LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY
to use it as a punishment in childhood. One should seek to allay rather than to cultivate an emotion that brings only distress and discouragement. Small children sometimes suffer greatly because of groundless fears. It is unwise to ridicule or treat the situation lightly. Prudent parents manifest a sincere interest and sympathetic understanding of such conditions, and attempt to help the child to meet such experiences bravely and rise above them. Both young and old shrink from the unknown. Vague shapes half veiled in the shadows assume dangerous proportions when viewed with frightened eyes. Under the illusion of fear one views life from a false distorted angle. Fear affects the heart, the blood vessels and the nerves. It is injurious to physical and mental health. It blights human happiness and efficiency. It destroys peace of mind and shortens life. Both children and adults suffer untold misery through the years because of the fears that are forever menacing aspiration and accomplishment. The progress of the world is not promoted by persons who are afraid. When brought into the revealing light of truth and reason, fear shrinks into insignificance. Faith is the perfect antidote for fear. Courage and achievement are synonymous terms. Reassure the child against fear of the dark. Remind him that the blind are always in the dark and that God's love reaches out to his children in the night time as easily as in the day, to guard them from harm. Very early in his experience help him to find the comfort and security that comes from the Master's gentle watch care and enfolding love.
651
Help youth to meet life courageously, to face difficulties with calmness, trusting in Divinity for guidance and strength. Also, let us take time to reassure ourselves. Why should we carry a burden of fear all through life? Have we not faith enough to outwit such a weakling? Never worry in the dark. Remember, worry is a blood relative of fear and will get us into all sorts of trouble. Sleep knits up the raveled nerves. A warm bath, clean perfumed linen, a reverent attitude and the repetition of choice bits of poetry will induce sound wholesome slumber. A change of raiment changes the thought, and following a hobby will route even the most persistent goblin. Cultivate a sense of humor, funny books and fear are not on speaking terms. If you feel that you are cornered by the pawns of life, don't give up. Be still. Relax. Seek divine inspiration. Then calmly think it over and plan the best way out. It is said that the Twenty-third Psalm was Woodrow Wilson's daily text during the World War. It might possibly prove helpful to others in bringing their own frail craft to a safe anchorage. If a desperate decision is pending, wait until morning. One never can tell what the day will bring forth. Blessings beyond our best dreams may be winging their way to our very door. Sometimes when a great disaster or sorrow enters the home, we permit ourselves to say goodbye to life. Should we not have more confidence in our Maker than such an attitude manifests? Should we not give him an opportunity to finish the game we have begun together? Why close the book of life right in the middle of the story? We have no idea of all of the lovely adventures and beautiful pictures that the following
652
chapters will disclose. Should we not give ourselves a chance to finish what we have begun? 'What are a few years more or less if one plays the game?" asks Mary Shipman Andrews.
THERE are often pauses in the music of life, but the melody will go on again, if we will but listen with faith to catch the lovely strains.
"There will always be stars Through the window bars— If we look to see them shine." —Mabel W. Clapp.
As we approach the end of the trail of life why lose the vision of the beautiful? Why should we fear? Life is made up of beginnings and endings. No path that leads heavenward is eternally closed against us so long as we desire higher, better things. One door closes only to open another. According to Nancy Byrd Turner:
"Death is only an old door Set in a garden wall. On gentle hinges it gives at dusk, When the thrushes call.
"There is nothing to trouble any heart, Nothing to hurt at all. Death is only a quiet door In an old wall."
And when that door closes behind us, the portals of heaven will open before us to admit us into life more radiant and glorious, and our souls
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
shall go bravely singing on into new high adventures and more masterful achievements. The underlying thought of the Master's message is to bring comfort and cheer to the hearts of men. "Peace be unto you," "Be of good cheer," "Be not afraid," are some of the texts of his beautiful Gospel. His assurance has carried the children of men through famine and battle and sorrow and death. Those who accept his message find security, serenity, and courage to meet every emergency of life. For his promises are unto all men, even to the end of time. "Have I not commanded thee? Be strong and of a good courage; be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed; for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest."—Joshua 1:9.
*Little Book of Brave Thoughts, Edited by Edwin Osgood Grover, Published by The Wise Book Co., New York. **The Three Things, by Mary R. Shipman Andrews, Publishers, Little, Brown and Co., Boston, Mass. **The same as ****Death Is A Door, by Nancy Byrd Turner, in the February issue, 1931, of Good Housekeeping, 57th Street at 8th Avenue, New York.
These quotations are used by special permission of the respective publishers, and through arrangements with them to quote the excerpts in this particular article.
TO MY MOTHER By Christie Lund Coles
I am a Mother now And oh, somehow, In looking back I understand my youthful lack, The things I meant to do Mother, for you.
That long, tortuous night Gave me the right To Motherhood. I understood In some degree All you had borne for me.
And now, each night and day, I pray I may fulfill my destiny As worthily As you upon this sphere, My Mother, dear.