Importance of Budgeting By Loreen Davis called a council in the Heavens to formulate a plan for governing this universe, from beginning to end. We acknowledge the importance of this plan. We also acknowledge the importance of city, state and nation forming a plan of operation, which always includes a budget. No successful business is in existence today that does not have a similar plan and budget to govern its operation. Buyers for large firms are selected for their skill in ascertaining in advance how much or how many of each article will be required, and the best time and place to purchase it. How then can a home be conducted in a well ordered, efficient manner without first planning and budgeting both the time and money required? If the average business were run in the same haphazard manner as most homes are, early bankruptcy would be the natural result. We are told it is easier to earn money than to spend it wisely. Realizing the importance of training to increase the earning power, how much more important then is training for its spending. Women spend most of the money men earn—should we not do it wisely? If each dollar is placed in its allotted niche there is none left for impulsive buying of things that may strike the fancy at the moment but have little value to us later. After we have experienced the fascination of wise spending we pride ourselves on our ability to make ends meet. The feeling of B vateva the world was, God security that comes with the knowledge that there is plenty for all the necessities of life, increases our serenity. Keeping track of how much is being spent for each kind of food enables us to supply a balanced diet for our families, which in itself spells health and happiness. It is my duty as a housewife to know what a balanced diet is and to see that my family gets it. The only way I can do this is to plan in advance to buy certain articles of food. I must also know their cost in order to make my cash supply cover them—what is this but budgeting? If I do not know how to budget, I should be taught. ~ "The proof of the pudding is in the eating." I can point out to you families in our church who are operating on a budget, paying tithing, keeping well fed, well dressed, happy because free from debt and with money in the bank; while others with larger incomes are hopelessly in debt, with little to show for their earnings and nothing left for tithing. What is the reason? In the first instance careful planning of expenditures with all leaks that drain the pocketbook stopped and in the second buying whatever is wanted at the moment with nothing left for more important articles needed later. If you are convinced you and I need a budget, how much more important that those who require our assistance, in many instances because of unwise spending, should also use one.