Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1895 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" TYPES OF WOMEN: 'The women of the Republic are the direct heritors of the women of the Revolution. All talk of a new woman is a mere fable. 'There is no new woman. The woman who sang the paeons of the Exodus; the woman who spins among her maidens while Ulysses roams the seas; the woman who proves to her Roman neighbors the redeeming power of Christianity.... The woman who launched the bark of Columbus; the woman kneeling on the bleak shores of Plymouth; the woman who made the homespun suit for the inaugural of her husband as first President of the Republic.... Blessed womanhood of the world.... Behold the women of the Revolution! They roll the logs beside their husbands to build the rude cabins; they sow, they reap, they card and spin and make the garments of the household; they rear rosy sons and daughters; they teach them the Sermon on the Mount—reverence for holy things, respect for authority; courage, reliance, self-control. —Kate Brownlee Sherwood A WORD FROM CASTLE DALE (UTAH): My thoughts go back to the time when I first came to this valley, how desolate and barren it looked. I stood on the bank of the creek, and looking around saw nothing but the naked hills and the ground all covered with sage brush and prickly pears, not a tree, except a few cottonwoods along the creek and a hut or a dugout here and there to shelter the few people that had come here to make their home; we heard no birds sing, except the song from the owl and you know that is not a very pleasing one, but through the blessings of the Lord and much hard labor in which many of the sisters have had a goodly share, the land has produced in its strength for our need —Caroline A. Larsen MY GARDEN And everything seemed to say, "Come out, Leave your window Easter lilies, Come out in the hills and see what waits Where each crystal, rippling rill is, Come take us cowslips out of the damp And the ferns from out the shadows, Wee violets and sweet buttercups From out the spreading meadows. —Augusta Joyce Crocheron RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE AT BRIGHAM CITY (UTAH): President Olivia Widebourg said: My heart is so full of gratitude to our Heavenly Father for his kindness to all of us, and for that portion of the Spirit we enjoy today. If you want to be the guardian angel of your homes, even if you are wronged, do your duty; our work is to relieve sorrow, suffering, and the needy, and it is a work of peace —Emilia D. Madsen, Cor. Sec. HYGIENE AND PHYSIOLOGY: Sister Hannah Sorensen has just started one of her classes here in the city.... The special subjects treated upon are Hygiene, Physiology of Women, and Obstetrics.... The object of these classes is to assist woman in learning her true mission in life and to be more willing to fill it —Selected s Page 302 ANE DELANO, who was honored during the March Red Cross drive, is sometimes called the Florence Nightingale of the Red Cross. She headed the first Red Cross Nurses organization and built up a large reserve group, carefully checking each woman's qualifications. 'The Government gratefully used these nurses during World War I, when Miss Delano herself went overseas, working, organizing, and strengthening the organization. She also organized the Red Cross Public Health Nursing Program, later taken over and still operated by the Government. ENATOR MARGARET CHASE SMITH and Representative Frances Bolton have introduced resolutions in Congress asking that the rose be made America's national flower. D*- LILLIE ROSE MINOKAHILL (1876-1952) was honored last Memorial Day by the dedication of a granite monument near her former home in Oneida, Wisconsin. Both Indians and whites, including Catholics, Episcopalians, and Methodists all participated, representative of those for whom she had cared. A Mohawk orphan, reared by Quakers, she became a physician. When she was widowed and left to support five children, She returned to medical practice.