On Washdays June B. Wunderlich I empty out each crumpled little pocket, Gather playworn treasures to a heap For growing hands to sort, before noon sleep Subdues activity. A tarnished locket Without catch or chain, a fragile paper rocket Battered by missions to the moon; down deep A broken, withered wishbone, serving to keep Expectant eyes aglow—so runs the docket. Once more I pray my wish—oh, help me fill The secret pockets hidden in the seams Of childhood, with shining, all-enduring dreams, With memories to launch an earthdrawn will To the stars—as wealth in trust for hands full grown To coin, when searching back in need, alone.: Flerbs for Mlodern Cookery Chives Elizabeth Williamson HIVES (Allium = schoenoprasum) are native to Northern Europe and North America, a perennial belonging to the onion family. This attractive plant, with lavender blooms and dark green leaves, grows to the height of eight or ten inches. It is easy to grow and seems to like most any soil. 'The bulb-like clusters at the root can be separated in the spring or fall. Each bulb will make a plant, but it is better to divide each clump into three or four parts for assuring a healthier plant. Potted chives can be grown all winter indoors, and they make a pretty addition to the kitchen window. The mild onion flavor is popular with many people who find that onions cause digestive disturbances. Chopped chives may be added to: stuffed eggs, cottage cheese, cream cheese, salads, mashed potatoes, tomato juice, and omelettes. Seer! Whasic Dey D xx P art dls Osseretges. Blow, Bugle. Blow—NeidlingerMadsen oii 222s eeeeeceeceeecceeeceeeeeeenenes 18 — God Shall Wipe Away All Tears— ROM.. Oooo oo eenccneceecccececeeeececccecsececeeeeeees 16 - Hold Thou My Hand—Briggs 20 | If Christ Came Back—O'Hara.20 a | Walked Today Where Jesus Walked—O'Hara 22. Ccceeeceeeeeee 22 i Let the Mountains Shout For Joy— Stephens LL a5 a Lord's Prayer—Gates.20. A. My Soul Is Athirst For God—Stickles.20 ~ Out of the Depths—Todd.20 = Praise Ye the Father—Gounod.10 — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank | | DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY! 45-47 South Main | Salt Lake City 1, Utah Please send the music indicated above. C] On Approval [] Charge [] Money Enclosed om pang CEE TTY 45-47 spurn maw L45 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO "/ 2260 WASHINGTON BLVD, Page 34]