OFFERING Mabel Jones Gabbott God's world has much to offer To a heavy burdened heart; A canyon breeze to whisper Coolness, calming peace; a part Of yellow sunshine slanting Through new leaves, distilling green; A sparkling brook that chatters Of the wonders it has seen; The song of tall white aspens, Lifted like a hushed sweet prayer To cirrus clouds in filmy Tendrils, high in pale, blue air. God's world has much to offer; Every living, throbbing part Can bring the peace of ages To a time-encumbered heart. The Cover: The cover is from a photograph taken in Big Cottonwood Canyon, Utah. VOL. 31, NO. 6 JUNE 1944 [Editor’s Note: June 1 is the natal day of Brigham Young, and June 27, 1944 will mark the one hundredth anniversary of the martyrdom of Prophet Joseph Smith] ONE of the most interesting and dramatic events in our Church history was the occasion when the Prophet Joseph Smith and Brigham Young met for the first time. This meeting occurred at Kirtland, Ohio, in September 1832. The Prophet Joseph, was only twenty-six years old at the time, but he had already made a remarkable record. The Book of Mormon had been translated and printed; the Church had been organized and had acquired upwards of 2,000 members, a gathering place for the Saints had been designated in Jackson County, Missouri; missionaries were being sent to many of the states and Canada, and the Gospel was being preached with power and effectiveness to all who would hear.
Among the converts who had been baptized in the spring of that year, 1832, was a young man, thirty years of age, named Brigham Young. He had joined the Church in his home town, Mendon, New York, through the preaching of five elders who came to Mendon and vicinity from Columbia, Pennsylvania. He was a strong, vigorous young man—a carpenter and furniture maker by trade—who had established himself in his community as a reliable, hon-
est, diligent, and honorable citizen. He looked forward to a life of peace and happiness in his quiet countryside. Then came the story of the young Prophet, his visions, and the establishment of the Church. Brigham Young, according to his own words, "heard and believed." A new world was opened to him. He found out that there were other and greater trusts for him to do than to make furniture and till his little farm at Mendon. He could save his own soul; he could bring the light of knowledge and truth to those who dwelt in darkness.
A branch of the Church was established in Mendon, and among the members were Joseph Young, Brigham Young's brother, and Heber C. Kimball. In the month of September 1832, these three young men decided to make a journey to Kirtland, Ohio, and there meet and visit with the Prophet of their chosen religion. The distance was about two hundred and forty miles; they traveled with a team and wagon, and two weeks' time was consumed in making the journey. On their arrival, their first object was to find the Prophet. I shall let Brigham Young relate that part of the story in his own words: 292 We proceeded to Kirtland, and stopped at John P. Greene's who had just arrived there with his family. We rested a few minutes, took some refreshments and started to see the Prophet. We went to his father's house and learned that he was in the woods chopping. We immediately went to the woods, where we found the Prophet and two or three of his brothers, chopping and hauling wood. Here my joy was full at the privilege of shaking the hand of the Prophet of God, and I received the sure testimony, by the spirit of prophecy, that he was all that any man could believe him to be as a true Prophet. He was happy to see us and made us welcome. We soon returned to his house, he accompanying us.—Millennial Star, Vol. 25, p. 439. Brigham Young had traveled two hundred and forty miles to see the Prophet of his chosen religion, and he found him "chopping and hauling wood." But when Brigham took Joseph Smith by the hand, and looked into his eyes, the Spirit bore witness to him that this young man before him "was all that any man could believe him to be as a true Prophet." Brigham Young was satisfied. Then and there he pledged his abiding loyalty to his youthful leader—a loyalty which continued until the Prophet's death, and beyond. Other significant events happened on this memorable day. They are described by Brigham Young as follows: In the evening a few of the brethren came in and we conversed together upon the things of the Kingdom. He (Joseph) called upon me to pray; in my prayer | spoke in tongues. As soon as we arose from our knees the brethren flocked around him and asked his opinion concerning the gift of tongues that was upon me. He told them it was the pure Adamic language. Some said to him they expected he would condemn the gift Brother Brigham had, but he said, "No, it is of God, and the time will come when Brother Brigham Young will preside over this church." The latter part of this conversation was in my absence.—Millennial Star, Vol. 25, p. 439. It is apparent from the above that the Prophet Joseph understood and could foresee the mission which was to be performed by the stalwart young man whose acquaintance he had made this day. He urged Brigham to join the Saints in Kirtland as soon as it was convenient for him to do so, and to give his time and efforts to the cause in which they all were engaged. Brigham gave heed to this advice, and the following year sold his possessions in Mendon and moved to the gathering place. From that time on, the balance of his life was spent in assisting the Prophet, and "building up the Church and Kingdom of God" to the fullest extent of his time and talents. In 1835, the first Quorum of Twelve Apostles was organized and Brigham Young was selected as one of the number. Thus he came into prominence for the first time as an official of the Church, and his qualities of leadership were soon in evidence. He carried out every order given him by the Prophet, and worked at every task assigned to him without any thought of compensation. His whole thought was to sustain the Prophet in his great efforts to establish the Kingdom. The year 1837 was the time of the great apostasy in Kirtland. Many rebelled against the leadership of the Prophet. Several of the Twelve Apostles and the witnesses of the Book of Mormon held a meeting to JOSEPH SMITH AND BRIGHAM YOUNG depose Joseph from the presidency of the Church and install David Whitmer in his stead. Brigham Young attended this meeting and took a stand that thwarted their purpose. Here are his own words: I rose up and in a plain and forcible manner told them that Joseph was a Prophet, and I knew it, and that they might rail and slander him as much as they pleased, they could but destroy their own authority, cut the thread that bound them to the Prophet of God, and sink themselves to hell—Millennial Star, Vol. 25, p. 487. That was the kind of loyalty that Brigham Young gave to the Prophet in one of the most critical times in our Church history. There is every evidence that it was duly appreciated. During the winter of 1837-38, the Prophet, accompanied by Brigham Young and others, made the long journey from Kirtland to Missouri. But there they found troubles greater than those they had experienced in Kirtland; the Missouri mobs rose against them and it was not long before all the Latter-day Saints, numbering between 12,000 and 15,000, were being driven from that state. The Prophet was taken to Liberty Jail where he was kept for five months. Many of the prominent men of the Church renounced the leadership of the Prophet at this time, but again Brigham Young stood firm and used his energy and talents to restore order and find a haven of refuge for the scattered and persecuted people. THE mission to England, undertaken in the fall of 1839 by Brigham Young and the members 293 of the Twelve, is one of the most heroic episodes in our Church history. These men went in illness and in poverty, trusting in the providence of God to sustain them and take them to their field of labor. They arrived in England and began their efforts, which resulted in the greatest "harvest of souls" in the history of the European Mission. Two weeks after his arrival in England, Brigham Young pledged his loyalty to the Prophet in a letter addressed to "President Joseph Smith and Counselors" in Nauvoo: I believe that I am as willing to do the will of the Lord, and take counsel of my brethren, and be a servant of the Church as I ever was in my life. But I can tell you I would like to be with my old friends; I like new friends, but I cannot part with my old ones for them.... I request one favor from you, that is, a letter from you, that I may hear from my old friends. I trust that I will remain your friend through life and eternity. — Millennial Star, Vol. 25, p. 727. Brigham Young was destined to remain Joseph Smith's friend throughout "life and eternity." After a most successful mission in England, during which time the brethren baptized "between seven and eight thousand people," the apostles returned to their homes in Nauvoo in the summer of 1841. Nine days after Brigham Young's return, the Prophet called at his home, and while there dictated the following revelation: Dear and well-beloved brother, Brigham Young, verily thus saith the Lord unto you: My servant Brigham, it is no more required at your hand to leave your family as in times past, for your offering is acceptable to me. I have seen your labor and toil in journeyings for my name, I therefore 294 command you to send my word abroad, and take special care of your family from this time, henceforth and forever. Amen. —Doc. & Cov., Sec. 126. The above makes plain the feelings which the Prophet himself held for his devoted follower and assured him of the approval of his Heavenly Father. From this time on, during the balance of the year 1841 and all of 1842, the Prophet and Brigham Young were almost in constant association. In November 1842, Brigham Young suffered a very severe illness. He remained in bed for several weeks. At one time it was thought that he was very near to death. He tells us that the Prophet Joseph sustained him during this illness: The Prophet Joseph and Elder Willard Richards visited and administered unto me; the Prophet prophesied that I should live and recover from my sickness. He sat by me for six hours and directed my attendants what to do for me.—Millennial Star, Vol. 26, p. 167. It was no small honor to Brigham Young to have the Prophet Joseph Smith sit by his bedside for six hours, during this desperate illness. There is evidence here that the Prophet was concerned about the life of his dear friend. On the 28th day of May, 1843, the Prophet Joseph made a significant entry in his History with reference to Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball. He paid them a wonderful tribute: Of the Twelve Apostles chosen in Kirtland, and ordained under the hands of Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer and myself, there have been but two but what have lifted their heel against me— namely Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball—Documentary History of the Church, Vol. 5, p. 412. In the summer of 1843, Brigham Young went on a mission to the Eastern States. At Pittsburgh, he preached a sermon to the Saints who had assembled to hear him: Who is the author of this work and gathering? Joseph Smith, the Prophet, as an instrument in the hands of God, is the author of it. He is the greatest man on the earth. No other man at this age of the world, has power to assemble such a great people from all the nations of the earth, with all their varied dispositions, and so assimilate and cement them together that they become subject to rule and order. This the Prophet Joseph is doing.—Millennial Star, Vol. 26, p. 247. "He is the greatest man on earth." That, in brief, was Brigham Young's opinion of the man who stood at the head of the Church; the man whom the Lord had selected to found the Kingdom. It is an honor to Brigham Young that he was able to recognize and understand the importance of the Prophet's mission. The winter of 1843-44 was the last opportunity these two men had to enjoy each other's society. One learns by reading the history that they were in almost daily association. One of their projects at this time was to send a group of men to the Rocky Mountains "to select a location for the settlement of the Saints." On May 2ist, Brigham Young left Nauvoo and started on a mission to the Eastern States. He intended to be away only about three months. At Petersboro, New Hampshire, on July 16th, 1844, he received a letter which informed him that the Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum JOSEPH SMITH AND BRIGHAM YOUNG had been killed by a mob in Carthage Jail, three weeks previously. This news came as a terrible shock to Brigham Young. He immediately made his way to Boston, where he met several of the apostles. Wilford Woodruff recorded the following in his diary under date of July 17th: Elder Brigham Young arrived in Boston this morning. I walked with him to 57 Temple Street, and called upon Sister Vose. Brother Young took the bed and gave vent to his feelings in tears.—Documentary History of the Church, Vol. 7, p. 195. The great, strong man Brigham Young, lying on the bed at the home of Sister Vose, weeping on account of the death of his dear friend, leader, and prophet, Joseph Smith— that is a picture long to be remembered. But he arose from that bed of tears with the great and unalterable determination to continue on with the work which the Prophet had restored to earth and founded, under divine direction. His task was clear to him. A few weeks later he said in a public sermon in Nauvoo: Brother Joseph, the Prophet, has laid the foundation for a great work, and we will build upon it;... There is an almighty foundation laid, and we can build a kingdom such as there never was in this world.... —Documentary History of the Church, Vol. 7, p. 234. All of Brigham Young's subsequent life was spent in the magnificent task of "building up the Kingdom," however, to his dying day, he missed the counsel and leadership of his friend, the Prophet Joseph Smith. Four days after the arrival of the first pioneers in Salt Lake valley, 295 Brigham Young spoke of his departed leader: We have come here, according to the direction and counsel of Brother Joseph, before his death, and Joseph would still be alive, if the Twelve had been in Nauvoo when he re-crossed the river from Montrose.—Journal History, July 28, 1847. In a sermon delivered in the Bowery, on the Temple Block, on October 6, 1855, President Young expressed his satisfaction that he had known the Prophet: I feel like shouting hallelujah all the time when I think that I ever knew Joseph Smith, the Prophet whom the Lord raised up and ordained, and to whom He gave keys and power to build up the Kingdom of God on the earth and sustain it, These keys are committed to this people, and we have power to continue the work that Joseph commenced, until everything is prepared for the coming of the Son of Man.—J. D. 3:51. Again, in a sermon on August 16, 1868, President Young said: In the days of the Prophet Joseph, such moments were more precious to me than all the wealth of the world. No matter how great my poverty—if I had to borrow meal to feed my wife and children— I never let an opportunity pass of learning what the Prophet had to impart. Brigham Young's death occurred in the Lion House in Salt Lake City on the afternoon of August 29, 1877. Anxious watchers at his bedside reported that a few moments before he expired, he gazed fixedly upwards and repeated several times the word "Joseph, Joseph, Joseph," as though he were speaking to his beloved leader. It is not improbable that the Prophet Joseph was there, to take his devoted follower by the hand,