Adapted to the Weakest of All Saints GAY bursts of laughter and the muffled hum of conversation could be heard through the heavy oak door. As a couple opened the door and entered, dim lights revealed groups of people standing or sitting around a room veiled in cigarette smoke. Each person was holding a glass containing a cocktail in one hand while he ate sandwiches, canapes or tidbits with the other. Not much attention was paid to the newcomers, except to make a few general and usually unintelligible, introductions and to enquire what kind of a drink they desired, as one of the hosts recited a list of suggestions. The couple ordered orange juice and ginger ale. There was a slight pause in the conversation of those nearest to them, and then the talking was resumed as before and the cocktail party went merrily and gaily on?not quite so noisy around the couple as elsewhere. They were present out of courtesy to their hosts, and while they strove to appear at ease amid circumstances which were neither pleasing nor agreeable to them, they left as soon as an opportunity presented itself. Once away from the party, they relaxed, and proceeded to enjoy themselves according to their own Mormon way of life. It had been distressing to this couple, however, to note that one of the men present who had gone along with the crowd in smoking and drinking had been reared a Mormon.
To each person on this earth there come temptations. Even the Savior was tempted of Satan. Everyone is constantly confronted with crossroads?one path, straight and narrow, leading to righteousness, and the other, broad and winding, leading to evil whose end is destruction. Especially when one lives away from the main body of the Church, friendships or business relations may cause Mormons to find themselves in places alien to their upbringing and desires. No matter, however, in what surroundings a Latter-day Saint may find himself he should always deport himself as a Latter-day Saint. He should remain one of a "peculiar people," and by upholding all standards enjoined upon him by his Church, his fellows will accord him a respect and recognition never attained by a man or woman who is too weak to uphold Church standards. Even from the standpoint of worldly success, there is nothing lost and much to be gained by a Latter-day Saint always conforming strictly to Church ideals.
When temptations come, urging one to break any part of the Word of Wisdom, it is necessary to let nothing that the world can offer interfere with a strict adherence and obedience to the Word of Wisdom. Anyone who professes to be a Latter-day Saint can do no less, for in giving this revelation the Lord said it was "adapted to the capacity of the weak, and the weakest of all saints, who are or can be called saints." M.C.S.