Notes from the Field Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for ?Notes from the Field? appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104.CAMPAIGNS. NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104.CAMPAIGNS
In this department of the Magazine for August 1943, reports which had been especially requested from the two missions and eight stakes represented on the honor roll for 1942 were published, showing the methods which had been followed by these Relief Societies in achieving a position on the honor roll. Inasmuch as six times as many stakes and missions achieved a position on the honor roll for 1943, similar reports were not requested from the fifty-seven stakes and three missions achieving this recognition. Accordingly, the reports presented here were all sent in voluntarily and are representative of the spirit and enthusiasm with which Relief Societies throughout the Church entered into the 1943 Magazine campaign, whether or not a place on the honor roll was achieved.
Cottonwood Stake
MERLE S. MUIR, stake counselor in charge of the Magazine, wrote as follows: "Although Cottonwood Stake has fallen short of our desired goal, we still feel we have achieved a great deal. Last year our stake took 155th place with twenty-six per cent. From enclosed report you will see we have seventy-one per cent this year [72d place] for which our ward representatives are to be congratulated. Their efforts and willingness have been an inspiration to me.
"At our stake and ward officers' meeting September 26, a campaign month was planned, a chart and poster of achievement was presented, and awards were offered by the stake. A slogan 'Every member a reader and subscriber' was accepted. The ward representatives presented their methods, and pep talks and suggestions were given.
"At the end of the month's campaign the stake executive officers entertained ward representatives at a luncheon. Miniatures were place cards. Each ward reported fine progress, pledged itself to greater efforts. The awards won were presented.
"All the wards have accomplished a great deal, but special mention should be given Taylorsville and Murray Third Wards which achieved 100 per cent or more, and the Valley Center Ward with eighty-four per cent. Murray Third Ward had only twelve subscriptions last year compared with 144 this year. Credit is due the presidents who have united their efforts and wholehearted support with those of the representatives. They are all enthusiastic Magazine boosters, and I, as stake director, know the Magazine is a spiritual and temporal help to all who read it. May this year's achievements be a challenge to bigger ones next year."
Even though this stake fell slightly short of the honor roll, it procured the greatest numerical increase (369) in subscriptions over 1942 of any stake or mission, and the second greatest percentage increase (175 per cent), as shown on page 321.
Western States Mission
THE following comment concerning the accomplishment of the Grand Junction Relief Society in the Magazine campaign is typical of the enthusiastic effort in the interest of the Magazine, put forth by the Relief Societies of this mission, under the direction of Luceal R. Curtis, mission Relief Society president. This mission was one of the two missions on the 1942 honor roll, and is one of the three missions on the 1943 roll. Altogether, nineteen of the thirty-seven Relief Societies in this mission are listed on the 1943 honor roll, eleven of them with rates of 100 per cent or more. Sister Curtis wrote: "I should especially like to call your attention to the Grand Junction Magazine report. Sister Arva M. Allgood, who is the Magazine representative and also a home missionary, works during the day. A few days before I went to the annual conference in Grand Junction, Sister Allgood finished her washing that she had started the night before and then got out and sold Magazines until it was time to go to work. She was that anxious to report 100 per cent on the Relief Society members taking the Magazine, and as you see from the subscription report, through her ambition and desire to make a good report, she achieved a rate of 120 per cent. Many others have worked hard. It is a real accomplishment, I feel, when branches get more Magazine subscriptions than they have members."
Kolob Stake
THE presidency of Kolob Stake Relief Society submitted the following report of this stake's Magazine campaign: "The Kolob Stake Relief Society, with Hannah M. Clyde as president, Eugenia Bird as Magazine representative and Lela C. Sumsion as assistant, were very successful in putting over the Magazine drive. They were ably assisted by the ward officers and Magazine representatives, and members of the ward Relief Societies who were called to help in this work.
"Much enthusiasm was created by the display of a large ship (see accompanying picture) on which a small star was placed for each subscription. As each ward met its quota a large star was presented at Relief Society meeting, and it was placed on the ship by the ward representative.
"The inclosed poem about the ship was composed by one of our worthy members, Sister Ella Reynolds, as a tribute to TheIt was read in each ward at the time the large star was presented.
"Many of the sisters have expressed their appreciation for the messages brought to them each month by the Magazine. The lessons are a real inspiration and comfort to all of us in these trying ties.? This stake achieved a rating of 102 percent of its members as Magazine subscribers, with all seven wards winning a place on the honor role. This stake was recently reorganized and Zelma Beardall is the new stake Relief Society president. OH, MAGIC SHIP! Oh, Magic Ship! Your sails are set with stars of hope and cheer; Each star means one subscription To the Magazine a year. The lessons that you find inside On pages clean and bright Will store your mind with knowledge And be your soul's delight. Oh, Magic Ship! Emblem of endurance, courage, strength, Your cargo is a precious crew Of loyal, honored saints Who meet each week in search of truth Given by teachers true? Who strive to live the Golden Rule, And serve their Master, too. Oh, Magic Ship! Your compass that will point the proper way Is symbolic of the lessons that we study day by day, Your rudder and the rudder-chain Are much the same to me? As the teaching of the Savior When he said, Come follow me? I will give you Peace" And control your destiny. Come join us, Kolob sisters; Your tiny golden stars Shall crown the sails on our Magic Ship. They are going to take us far? Into the land of knowledge Where with speech, and prayer, and song, SHIP REPRESENTING THEon which a star was placed for each subscription. Each ward was entitled to add the large star to its ship when the ward had reached its Magazine quota. We will mingle with that glorious crowd, Who are a hundred thousand strong. ?Ella Wheeler Reynolds Cache Stake MARY M. WEST, president of Cache Stake Relief Society, which appears on the honor roll with a rating of eighty-three per cent, reports: "We are very happy over 'the success of our Magazine drive this year. We have obtained more subscriptions than ever before in our stake. Our fine Magazine representatives, under the very able leadership of stake Magazine representative NOTES FROM THE FIELD Lettie B. Rich, started out with the determination to do their best. As an additional inducement the stake board offered a $25 war bond to each ward that made seventy-five per cent or more by December 31. We appreciate the fine support our members have given and hope to be able to keep this fine record from year to year." Rexburg Stake THIS stake is one which made a substantial increase in Magazine subscriptions during 1943, increasing its rate from sixty-three per cent in 1942 to eighty-one per cent in 1943. 'Twelve of the fifteen wards of this stake appear on the 1943 honor roll with rates ranging from seventy-five per cent to 115 per cent. During 1943, the stake Magazine representative, Mary E. Hunt, submitted a copy of the monthly Magazine report card used in this stake and a copy of an attractive little booklet of verse dedicated to Therepresentatives of this stake. The report form, printed on a post card, has space each month for the ward Magazine representative to report to the stake Magazine representative the number of subscriptions taken during the month. In this way the stake Magazine representative is kept informed of progress being made throughout the year in the various wards. The little booklet of poetry was arranged by Sister Hunt and contains poems of encouragement to the Magazine representatives, some of which relate directly to Theand others to the opportunities of Relief Society women to serve others. 349 Weiser Stake ERMA B. CHADWICK, president of Weiser Stake Relief Society, recently sent the following interesting and amusing account of the project under way in this stake for a complete set of bound volumes of TheWe are sending Magazines for the years 1922?23?26?28?29? 30?31?32?35?36?41?43 (twelve volumes) to be bound in cloth binding. "We are striving to create a reference and reading library for the use of the women who are caught 'waiting at the church' on conference and leadership meeting days. If you have ever noticed how much a Latter-day Saint woman does wait at the church and then multiplied the hours by the number of women who do wait, you have dealt with big numbers. We aim to make that waiting both profitable and painless with a complete set of bound volumes of the Magazine. The treasure hunt for the necessary copies of the Magazine has led us into the best-hidden trunks under the most-forgotten chests under the most corn in the most remote granaries you could imagine. Eureka! We find them. "We have purchased an interesting little prewar book cupboard to hold these and it will look right empty until these twelve bound volumes arrive, so please 'hurry every chance you get,' our appreciation understood. "To date we have uncovered none for the year 1914. We have nineteen volumes complete and will soon have others, I am quite sure."  MAGAZINE GIFT SUBSCRIPTIONS IN 1943, as in previous years, many gift subscriptions were received at the Magazine office from ward and stake Relief Societies for distribution at the discretion of the Magazine office. These gift subscriptions are received with great appreciation by those to whom they are sent, principally missionaries and officers of new mission branch Relief Societies who may not have been able to subscribe immediately themselves. During 1943, these generous and thoughtful gifts came from the Worland, Penrose, and Lovell West Wards of the Big Horn Stake, the First Ward of Shelley Stake, Mesquite Ward of Moapa Stake, Highland Ward of Humboldt Stake, the Farmington and South Bountiful Wards of South Davis Stake, and from the Woodruff Stake. COMMENTS FROM MAGAZINE READERS FOLLOWING are excerpts from a few of the letters received by the General Board of Relief Society expressing appreciation for TheTheis arriving in good condition. The material in the first two issues received is inspiring. I've resolved to read it all each month. Even my husband enjoys reading it, and expects me to profit by its suggestions and teachings. ?Bremerton, Washington Enclosed you will find check for renewal of our surely do enjoy our Magazine, more so now that I am not near enough to attend Relief Society meetings. I study the lessons and keep up with the work and on Tuesday afternoon I go over the lesson just as if I were in class. I appreciate the wonderful lessons you have given. I would subscribe for the Magazine if it took my last dollar. ?Colfax, California I was delighted with the prize-winning poems and stories this season. They are all so wholesome, simple, and lovely. ?Ogden, Utah Since becoming Relief Society president I have grown to appreciate the great work that you are doing through your inspiring publication to help these people who are away from the body of the Church. ?San Angelo, Texas Please change my address at once as | don't want to miss a single copy of the Magazine?it is too valuable to me. The reading matter in it is more than worth double the price of the Magazine. ?Atlanta, Georgia This is my first year of taking the Magazine and I can hardly wait from one issue to the other. I surely enjoy them a lot. ?Burley, Idaho Sketch of my Life (Continued from page 33) roof of our dwelling was covered deeper with earth than the adjoining ones, consequently did not leak as soon, and some of my neighbors huddled in for shelter. One evening as several were sitting socially conversing in my room, the water commenced dripping in one place and then in another, and so on; they dodged it for a while, but it increased so rapidly, they concluded to return to their own wet houses. After they left, Sally wrapped herself in her buffalo robe on the floor, and I spread my umbrella over my head and shoulders as I ensconced myself in bed, the lower part being unhitched dry, wet enough before morning. During the night, despite all discomfiture, I laughed involuntarily while alone in the darkness of the night I lay reflecting on the ludicrous scene. The earth overhead being fully saturated, after it commenced to drip, the storm was much worse inside than out, and as the water coursed through the willows and pattered on the floor, waked the stones from the earth above, and they went clink, clink, while the numerous mice which the storm had driven in for shelter, ran squealing back and forth?the Indian girl asleep on the floor, altogether made the situation rather romantic.
A little now about the Indian girl. The same Indian who brought her, had, a short time previous, brought an Indian boy whom they offered for sale, saying they would kill him at sun-down if not purchased. Our people did not credit their threat, but when too late for remedy, learned that it was promptly executed, which prompted some of my neighbors to purchase Sally (whose Indian name was Pitash) when brought in and offered for sale with the same threat; and was placed in charge of L. C. Young. Under our mutual care and cultivation, she very soon became disgusted with her native habits?became neat and tasteful in dress, and delicate in appetite, although at first she crammed herself like a dog. When she had sufficiently learned to communicate her ideas to our language, she informed us that she was of the Pibandy tribe?that her father died ?her mother married again?her step-father was cruel to her and sold her to those of whom she was a captive. She proved to be a good, virtuous woman, and died beloved by all who knew her.
(To be continued)
SUMMER PRIMARY MERITS SUPPORT
THE Primary Association is continuing regular meetings during the summer months. Five specific activity bulletins have been distributed as follows: (1) art and crafts; (2) nature and wood lore; (3) games and plays; (4) drama and literature; (5) music. Local organizations will select from this list the activity which they wish to feature. Home cooking and sewing projects will be conducted for girls, and victory gardening and carpentry will be included for boys. The program based on any of these activities should be very attractive to children of Primary age. The Primary is to be complimented upon much leisure time, and may be encouraged to have good attendance during the season when they are out of school and have so much leisure time, and especially will this be so in war time when their services may be needed at Primary.