BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Moore—The Bard of Erin, was equally
famous as a poet, a friend and a man of the
world; his genius, his genial disposition,
and his bewitching manners, made him the
welcome visitor to all the grand drawing-
rooms of the elite of England, of which
London is the focus. He is the author of
"Lallah Rookh," "The Loves of the An-
gels," and "The Vale of Cashmere." His
"Melodies" will alone hand down his name
to posterity. Music and poetry were twin
gifts in Moore;he,himself,set his own pieces
to music, and then sang them in his own
sweet, rich voice! and his social and refined
nature, his polished manners, sparkling wit
and good heart made him truly the petted
child of whatever society he entered. By-
ron and he met in the same charmed
circles as the Castor and Pollux of each as-
sembly—they were indeed the lions of those
London seasons. A sincere friendship
sprang up between them, the commence-
ment of which was a misunderstanding so
severe that a challenge to fight a duel was
sent by Moore, but by a happy accident the
letter did not reach its destination,and they
did not again meet for two years, when an
explanation took place, and they became
cordial friends for life. Byron ever gave
his whole heart, if  he  gave it at all,
and his devotion to Moore knew no cessa-
tion; in his playful moods he used to call
him "An abridgement of all that's delight-
ful in man!" And who has not read his
"Farewell to Tom Moore," as he was leav-
ing his native country; who has not read it?
who has not sung it? for it has been set to
appropriate music, and deserved to be.

[Column 2]

Years after, when Moore visited Byron at
Ravenna,on his leaving,Byron ran up to his
room, and returning, brought down a heavy
package which he placed in Moore's hands,
saying, "Here is a fortune for your little
Tom, I make you my biographer!" It con-
tained his diary, which he had kept from a
child: his letters, unpublished poems, etc.,
and when at the early age of thirty-seven,
he passed off this stage of action, Moore re-
ligiously took up his mission, and sent forth
to the world his "Life of Byron." Much
valuable manuscript was destroyed by the
desire of a council of friends, as he spoke
too much truth. When Byron censured,
he did so understandingly, and he detested
the "Wolf in Sheep's Clothing," and hypo-
crisy in every shape and form; this honest
feeling made some of his poems what is
called bitter, because "truth's a libel" in
such cases. Moore is an honest biographer,
and whenever it was possible he allows By-
ron to speak for himself, and constitutes
his readers judges, as far as they are capa-
ble of being so. And when he delineates,
it is done in the spirit of Christian charity
and admiring appreciation. Their names
are eternally blended in one bright and glo-
rious monogram.
	No poet has been more read and sung
than Moore. There is in his verses the lan-
[---] every heart, and hence there is a
loud response to the Harp of the Poet.
The beautiful episode of "Paradise and the
Peri" is sweet and thrilling, and the moral
is equally so. Late in life, Moore's mind
became feeble and inert. Of course many
were the remedies that were tried by his
adoring friends to resuscitate the brain. At
last it was suggested that some of his own
beautiful melodies should be sweetly sung
in his presence. It was observed he listen-
ed attentively. At last he exclaimed, with
a spark of his old fire, "What is it? it's very
sweet! Surely I've heard it before!"
	We cannot dwell on such a mournful
change to a great, grand mind, but he has
long since rehearsed his beautiful minstrel-
sy in the choirs of the Empyreum, where
such spirits open their eyes upon all its
glories and feel in all its fulness they are
"At Home."
	Burns—"The Ayrshire plowman," as he
is lovingly called by his brotherhood. Burns
was a man and a poet to be proud of, sim-
ply because he was honest, and told the
truth when he did speak, and because he
hated all shams, come in whatever form
they might. Scotland loves her patriot
poet, and England, in her love, is almost
jealous for fear she shall not evince her love
in the same ratio. Eliza Cook sings the
sentiments of the nation in her heart song
of
	"Robby, Robby! child of song,
	The nobly poor, the bravely strong.
		*	*	*	*
	Oh, Robin, Robin! Princes now
	Will speak of him 'who held the plow.' "
	The whole poem is lovely. I can scarce-
ly refrain from copying it,but must pass on.
In imagination, I picture the inspired plow-
man; I grasp his hand, I feel he is a bro-
ther who speaks to us, a creature of flesh
and blood; I note the pride on his brow, the
tear in his eye, the smile on his lip; no effi-

[Column 3]

gy of buried learning is he, but a free, cor-
dial, earnest man! He is a human creature,
only overflowing with the characteristics of
humanity. He conceals not his share of
frailty, nor turns aside from penance. He
takes with equal thanks a sermon or a song;
he loves and worships with the same devo-
tion. It is a blessing that such a soul should
arise in the midst of poverty; he was the
child of nature; the schools may make
scholars, but they cannot make a Burns!
When he erred, it was from an excess of
passion, never from deliberate hypocrisy.
Burns never lost his conscience, or the sin-
cerity or manliness of his character; his
poetry is sentimental and pensive. "Holy
Willie's Prayer" was drawn from life, and
was truth; and in all his writings he spoke
the truth of his soul, and when he wrote:
	"God knows, I'm not the thing I should be.
	Nor am I even the thing I could be.
	But twenty times I rather would be
		An atheist clean,
	Than under gospel colors hid be
		Just for a screen!"
	With all his rusticity, he maintained his
dignity in the polished circles of Edin-
burgh; he felt the sting of poverty, and his
whole nature recoiled from dependence.
Who dare presume to sit in judgment upon
such a being, whose very errors "leaned to
virtue's side," and who writes of himself:
		"By passion driven,
	And yet the light that led astray
		Was light from Heaven!"
	Of the objects of his regard, his "High-
land Mary" seems alone to have inspired
poetical sentiment. Their solemn parting
on the banks of the Ayr, and her early
death all are familiar with; her memory
seemed consecrated in his imagination, and
he has immortalized her image by his
"Exquisite Mary in Heaven."
	Woman was his tutelar deity. If he
wanted to write a poem, he sought a fine
woman for his inspiration. These are his
own expressions, and his spirit was ever
that of true man to woman: tender, respect-
ful, loving! Read his words:
	"Then gently scan your brother man;
	Still gentler, sister woman."
	Who made the heart' 'tis he alone
		Decidedly can try us.
	He knows each chord—its various tone,
		Each spring - its various bias.
	Then at the balance let's be mute,
		We can never can adjust it;
	What's done we partly may compute,
		But know not what's resisted.
	This is an epitome of a righteous judg-
ment; this takes us into the secret cham-
bers,and shuts the door upon the world and
its babbling jargon.
	His "Cotter's Saturday Night," his
"Tam O'Shanter," his "Prayer in the pros-
pect of death," how touchingly beautiful!
because our hearts respond to the chords he
so powerfully strikes. Eliza Cook shall give
the finale to this brief memoir:
	"Though nought beside of hallowed worth
	Marked Scotia's men and Scotia's earth.
	Since Burns has sung, she needs no more
	To spread her fame the wide world o'er.
	Oh Robin, Robin! proudly dear,
	Thy spirit still is with us here;
	And glory's halo round thy head
	Shines as we laud the mighty dead!"


