PIONEER DAY.

	IT is well known that the 24th of July is the
anniversary of the day on which the Mormon
Pioneers, with the late President Brigham
Young as their leader, arrived in the Valley
of the Great Basin, in the vicinity of Salt
Lake. Every year it has been the custom to
celebrate that day, and probably there is no
other day in all the year which brings to the
hearts of all Latter-day Saints such peculiarly
grateful feelings as this one, from which they
date the freedom and liberty that has charac-
terized their sojourn in this Territory.
	And yet, perhaps, as a people, we have not
been sufficiently grateful to God for his mer-
cies and blessings extended to us, in the efforts
which have been made to build up and beauti-
fy the desert.
	This day should be honored, and it is meet
that all should join to show how truly they
appreciate the blessings they enjoy, through
the arduous toil, labor and endurance of the
brave, lion-hearted men and women who, at
the peril of their lives, sought out this desert
wilderness. The Pioneers should be remem-
bered with honor (the few who remain) for
many have passed away. Of the three women
who accompanied them in this wonderful pil-
grimage, only one is now living, Mrs. Clara
Decker Young, widow of the late President
Brigham Young. The others were Mrs. Ellen
Sanders Kimball, wife of Pres. Heber C. Kim-
ball, and Mrs. Harriet Page Wheeler Young,
wife of Elder Lorenzo D. Young, brother to
the late President Young. The names of
these heroic women should be remembered by
the Latter-day Saints, and the children of this
people taught to cherish their memory as well
as the memory of that noble brotherhood of
fearless men, who, trusting in the arm of Is-
rael's God, traversed an unknown waste, not
with armed forces, ready to defend themselves
against a foe, but a poorly equipped company
of men, trusting in Jehovah to fight their bat-
tles.
	This year the day was celebrated with a
grand Commemorative Entertainment in the
Large Tabernacle in this city, arranged under
the direction of an executive committee, con-
sisting of Messrs. George Goddard, C. W.
Stayner, Joshua Midgley, and John Daynes.
Conductors of music, Profs. C. J. Thomas and
Joseph J. Daynes.
	The celebration commenced with an overture
by the brass band. Prayer by Elder George
Q. Cannon. Then a sacred song by all the
children of the Sunday Schools of Salt Lake
City and vicinity, consisting of nearly 4000
little folks. The singing by the children was
really one of the most beautiful features of the
entertainment, their fresh young voices seemed
to swell in praises, and fall upon the ear of the
listener with sweet melody that was delight-

[Column 2]

fully gratifying. There were many parts of
the entertainment worthy of note,and foremost
among them was the music, on the violin by
Prof. Weihe, and piano accompaniment by
Prof. Daynes, Prof. Weihe was encored and
the music was deserving the cheers and ap-
plause vouchsafed to the young artist, who has
recently returned from Germany. Miss Sarah
Olsen and Miss Anna Mackey with their
charming rich voices, added greatly to the
musical entertainment. It was the first ap-
pearance of Zion's Musical Society in public,
and it formed one of the greatest attractions of
the day; the glee song by them "Oh, the
flowery month of June," was quite inspiring.
Dr. E. B. Ferguson's Normal Class consisting
of about a dozen young ladies in rendering
"Duet Obligato, with chorus," did remarkably
well, and reflected great credit upon the pro-
ficiency of their teacher who has only been
training them six weeks. The grand com-
memorative song, "The Glorious Standard of
the West," by C. W. Stayner, which we pub-
lish in full on the third page, was written ex-
pressly for the occasion; and we congratulate
Bro. Stayner on having succeeded so well in
touching the hearts of the people; it was well
rendered by Bro. Wm. H. Foster, who has long
been a favorite singer among our people. Prof.
J. J. Daynes' grand solo on the piano, in his
own original and sprightly style was admira-
ble and his rendition of "Il Trovatore" was
wonderful. Many who attended the Jubilee
were unable to hear the finest parts of the per-
formance, as the building itself is better suited
to a great number of voices or a heavy swell of
music. Pres. J. D. T. McAllister, from St.
George, who was for many years the favorite
singer in all public assemblies in this city,
touched the feelings of all tenderly by choos-
ing an expressive song, "O, ye mountains
high," which never fails to produce inspiring
emotion in the souls of the Latter-day Saints,
for it comes home to every heart. Pres. An-
gus M. Cannon pronounced the benediction.
	Much praise is due to the committee of ar-
rangements, and also to the singers, musicians
and all who contributed their share to the gen-
eral enjoyment. The entertainment passed off
pleasantly and peacefully, and gave perfect
satisfaction.
	We trust this people will never cease to cele-
brate the twenty-fourth, and that the children
now growing up in Zion will remember to do
the same. For our own part we would like, on
another anniversary of this memorable day, to
see all the Pioneers assembled where the audi-
ence may distinguish them. Honor to the
grand old heroes of '47.	E. B. Wells


