APPEAL

		"Whatever link you strike from nature's chain,
		Tenth or ten-thousandth, breaks alike the chain."
	The Forty-sixth Congress, now assembled,
contains an unusually large proportion of
new representatives, fresh from the people,
ready for the discussion of new issues, and
already manifesting a cliivalric spirit to-
ward the consideration of woman’s claim as
a citizen to one-half of this republic, with
all its rights, principles, and immunities.
	On Tuesday, April 29, the following res-
olution was submitted to the Committee on
Rules of the United States House of rep-
resentatives:
	Resolved, That a select committee of, nine
members be appointed by the Speaker, to
be called a committee on the Rights of
Women Citizens, whose duty it shall be to
consider and report upon all petitions,
memorials, resolutions and bills that may
be presented in the House relating to the
rights of women citizens.
	Admitting the justice of a fair consider-
ation of a question involving every human
right of one-half of the population of this
country, a majority of this most important
committee of the House—Alex. H. Stephens
of Georgia, James A Garfield of Ohio,
Wm. P. Frye of Maine,—immediately de-
clared themselves in favor of the appoint-
ment of said committee, and Speaker Ran-
dall, Chairman of the Cmmittee, ordered it
reported to the House, where it is now
pending.
	A similar resolution will be intorduced
in the Senate, before the adjournment of
the special session.
	There is now a clearer perception of the
magnitude of the question, and the need of
its early and earnest consideration, than at
any time during the past thirty years of


[Column 1]

argument, heroic struggle and sacrifice on
the altar of woman's freedom.
	THE IMMENSE LABORS OF WOMEN
for their own enfranchisement during the
Forty-fifth Congress are shown upon the
pages of the Congressional Record, and it
is evident that the new Congress look for a
still larger, more determined and effective
demonstration from the women who know
their rights, and knowing dare maintain.
	The illogical, contradictory and evasive
adverse report of the United States Senate
Committee on Privileges and Elections.
showing that wemen are, "inexperienced
in political affairs" (as every man is when
he casts his first vote); that "they are quite
generally dependent on men" (whom they
endowed with life and bronght safely up
through the scarlet fever, measles whoop-
ing cough and cutting their thirty-two
teeth); that "they cannot fight" (though
they furnish all the armies of the earth
with their beloved sons who go from their
arms to be shot to death with bullets); that
woman, "if allowed to vote, would proceed
to impair or destroy the marriage relation"
(to which chaste, modest man has only
been able to hold her hitherto by the strong
arm of the law) this Majority Report, rep-
resenting the convictions of six United
States Senators on the woman question, to-
gether with the Minority Report of the
same committee recognizing the right of
woman to self-government and the duty of
Congress to aid her in securing the exercise
of this right, are also on record in Congress,
inviting intelligent men in both Houses to
a fuller discussion of human rights.
	The tie vote on this question in the House
Judiciary Committee of the last Congress
also indicates to the present Congress the
need of research and debate.
	The constitutional amendment asked for,
provides national protection for the rights
of women citizens.
	The history of legislation in Congress for
a century is a history of national legislation
upon the rights of men, and all of the great
political parties have continuously demand-
ed national protection for the rights they
each specifically held as most sacred. The
Missouri Compromise of 1820, its repeal in
1854, and the Fugitive Slave act of 1850,
form a history of national legislation de-
manded and secured by the slaveholders to
establish their rights to property in man,
and their right to take such property, hold
it or recover it anywhere under the national
flag.
	This struggle led to the formation of the
Republican party. And since that time
the rights of man, and the need of national
legislation to protect them, have entered
more and more intensely in every contest
between the two great political parties.
The thirteenth amendment of 1865, abol-
ishing slavery, the fourteenth amendment
of 1867, defining citizenship and imposing
penalties for the violation of the rights of
citizens, the fifteenth amendment expressly
protecting the United States citizen in his
chief right—the right to vote—are all mile-
stones on the way to mark the conflict of
the rights of property in man, and the
rights of man as man.
	DURING ALL THESE YEARS
of heroic struggle for humanity, man's
belief in his own divine right to property
in woman has generally been serene, scarce-
ly moved by a ripple of self-reproach or
remorse. That man was made to glorify
God, woman to glorify man, has been his
theoretical and Practical creed.
	From the very birth of the nation women

[Column 2]

of intelligence, culture and philanthropy,
women like Abigail Adams, Margaret Ful-
ler, Lucretia Mott, whose very names men
say, are an inspiartion to them, have asked
the nation to consider their rights as citizens.
	These never-ceasing demands have edu-
cated the people, have secured larger op-
portunities for woman in education, labor,
wages and social life, more humane legis-
lation upon her civil rights as a wife,
mother and widow, and an increasing
respect for the main question, the right
which includes all other rights, her right to
the ballot.
	The 40,000 votes for woman suffrage in
Michigan, (cast of course by men only), the
9,070 votes in Kansas, the 6,666 votes In
Colorado, the large votes in many State
Legislatures, the right to vote on school
questions already granted to women in
Kansas, New Hampshire, Massachusetts,
Minnesota,Colorado, California, Oregon, the
recent passage in the Legislature of Min-
nesota of a resolution asking Congress to
submit a sixteenth amendment providing
for woman suffrage, the general suffrage
already secured to women in Wyoming and
Utah,—these and countless other advance
tests throughout the country have de-
veloped the fact that the most worthy and
intelligent among men are in favor of equal
rights for women, and that ignorance and
vice, and notably the liquor interest, are
the most determined obstacles in the way
of woman's enfranchisement.
	The discussion in Congress of the bill to
admit women to practice before the Su-
preme Court of the United States, and its
passage by overwhelming majorities in both
Houses, have led many to the conclusion
that if a woman may plead a case involving
the rights of men and women before the
highest judicial body in the land, it is an
absurdity and an anachronism to deny her
the right to vote on the closing of a dram-
shop, or the opening of a town pump.
	THE REPEATED DECISION
of the supreme Court upon the constitu-
tional rights of citizens, however unsound
and inconsistent on other points, and how-
ever contradictory in argument, all agree
in the one inflexible conclusion, the denial
of woman's right to vote under the Consti-
tution as it is.
	Therefore the friends of woman suffrage
and the woman suffrage organizations
throughont the country are unanimous in
the present demand for an amendment to
the National Constitution expressly declar-
ing woman's
	RIGHTS TO VOTE AS A CITIZEN OF THE 
		UNITED STATES.
	Friends, who receive this appeal and who
realize your own duty and responsibility in
securing this reform, which includes all
reforms, begin to work ot once.
	Read instructions to workers in tract No.
2 and see to it that your town, county and
State are recognized in Congress as alive
concerning the rights of women.
	Address a strong but brief letter to your
own Senator and Representative in Con-
gress, calling his attention to the following
points:
	First.—The vast expenditure of time,
public treasure and lives in securing the
rights of men.
	Second.—The injustice in enjoying and
insecurity in retaining these rights while
one half the population of the country,
wives, mothers and daughters of men, are
classed with lunatics, paupers, criminals,
idiots and Chinese before the law.
	Third.—The increasing demand for equal

[Column 3]

rights for women in your section, and the
substantial advances made in your State in
this direction.
	Fourth.—The large number of leading
minds of the age now avowed advocates of
woman suffrage, not only as a natural right,
but as a vital need of the nation.
	Fifth.—Urge him as a repersentative of
your State and section to lead, and not to
follow the masses in doing justice to the
women of this republic.
	Sixth.—Suggest that he who forgets wo-
man in this her day of struggle for freedom
may himself be forgotten by her when
10,000,000 of women citizens, with the bal-
lot in their hands, choose their own rulers.
	Friends, workers bear constantly in mind
that every line you write, every word you
utter, every dollar you contribute to ad-
vance woman suffrage is helping to uplift a
continent to a plane of justice, purity and
freedom.
	SARA ANDREWS SPENCER,
		Cor. Sec. Nat. Wom. Suf  Asso.
	ELIZABEH CADY STANTON,
		President,
	SUSAN B. ANTHONY,
		Vice President.
	MATILDA JOSLYN GAGE,
		Ch. Ex. Committee.
—Ballot-Box.


