BOX ELDER STAKE.

	Fourth Quarterly Conference of the Re-
lief Society was held on Tuesday and Wed-
nesday, June 10th and 11th, in the meeting
house at Brigham City.
	President Harriet Snow presiding: Offi-
cers of the Board present, also President
Oliver Snow, Counselors Elijah Box, Patri-
arch Box and several bishops with counsel-
ors; Mrs. Margaret P. Young, from Salt
Lake City, also several Presidents of Relief
Societies and Y. L. M. I A. of Box Elder
Stake. The Conference opened with sing-
ing and prayer. Minutes of last Conference
were read and accepted. Statistical and
financial reports from each Ward in the
City and the various towns in the County,
were also read, showing their good condi-
tion and prosperity. Verbal reports by the
Presidents of each branch and remarks by
several of the brethren present and Mrs.
Margaret P. Young, occupied the first day.
Tuesday morning's session: The officers
of the Relief Society Stake were upon the
stand, Apostle Lorenzo Snow and other
brethren. After the opening ceremonies,
President Harriet Snow presented the
names of the officers of the Relief Societes
of Box Elder Stake to the people to be
voted upon. Mrs. Harriet Snow was sus-
tained as President of the Relief Society of
the Box Elder Stake, Mrs. Susanna P.
Booth and Mrs. Mary Stark, Counselors;
Mrs. Mary E. Snow, Recording Secretary,
and Mrs. Emilie D. Madson, Corresponding
Secretary.
	The next bnsiness in order was the orga-
nization of a Silk Association of Box Elder
Stake. Mrs. Mary Stark was elected Pres-
ident; Mrs. Susanna P. Booth and Mrs.
Mary E. Snow, Counselors; Mrs. Eugenia
S. Pierce and Miss Lydia M. Snow, Secre-
taries. The remaining time was occupied
by the Y. L. M. I. A.
	The afternoon was devoted to the Presi-
dents of the Primary Associations, after
which, Apostle Lorenzo Snow addressed
the meeting, encouraging and blessing the
sisters in working unitedly together for the
interest of Zion; expressed himself pleased
and astonished with the marked improve-
ment of the sisters in counseling and in-
structing each other. Conference adjourn-
ed for three months. Singing. Benedic-
tion.
	Relief Society reports from December
I0 to June 10th, 1879, of Box Elder Stake:
Statistical and Financial.—Teachers, 93;
members, 657; meetings, 110; average at-
tendance, 421; Woman's Exponent, 72.
Donations received, cash and property.—
Disbursements, cash, $222 20; property,
$14 3 89; to Temple, cash, $42 84; property,
$51 40; public buildings, cash, $174 85;
property, $68 10; home industries, $12 86;
emigration, $6 05; stationery, $9 80; chari-
table, Lamanaites, Etc., $55 41; missionary,
$20 58. Total on hand, cash, $83 37; pro-
perty, $102 60. Wheat, 187 ½ bushels.
	EMILIE D. MADSEN,
				Cor. Sec. of Stake.

