BY GEORGE H. WHITEMORE.
	In these passing days, the footsteps of
many and the thought of multitudes more
are turned to beautiful Stratford-on-Avon
by the special commemoration there of the
season alike of Shakespeare's birth and
death. The monumental inscription in
Stratford church places the latter event on
April 23, 1616. The register of his christn-
ing make it not improbable that he was born,
as traditiosn says upon the very same day of
the year 1564. It is a striking circumstance,
too, that the same mortuary date, April 23,
1616, belongs to Cervantes, who wrote the
most popular book in all secular literature
Don Quixote, and to Shakespeare, the
author of the greatest works of human
genius. To suppose, however, that the
Englishman and Spaniard, the two best en-
titled, after the sacred writers, to be called
the whole world's men died upon the same
day, is, according to Mr. Ticknor, in his
History of Spanish Literature, a mistake,
the calendar not having then been altered
in England, which makes a difference of
ten days.
	The Shakespeare Memorial Building, to
be dedicated with dramatic and other exer-
cises during the ten days of this celebration,
combines a theatre, library and art-gallery.
Though in many respects a fitting recogni-
tion, if worthily executed, yet we are not
sorry to have visited Stratford before it was
erected, when the stranger looked about
him and beheld in the place itself, to some
extent, the natural and contemporaneous
monument of the mighty dead. It was to
be at home that Shakespeare returned here,
away from the London of his player's life.
It may seem ridiculous to ascribe to him
Artemus Ward's aspiration, in the character
of a showman, to settle down, be respectable,
and go to church in good style, like one's
neighbors; and yet, perhaps. this would not
much travesty the sentiment ofShakespeare's
retirement to Stratford. It is in general
desirable to put space between the place
and associations of business and of home, and
often it is the dream of life to effect a full
and final severance from the one, and to


[Column 1]retreat to the other. Thus our actor and
author made periodical visits to his native
town, and had bought its principal house
some fifteen years before quitting the me-
tropolis. Heaven help the man who lacks
a home in which to embody his earthly
ideals if he have success in life, or as the
amiable sanctuary from disaster in it! Shake-
speare came back to Stratford about 1611,
some years before he was fifty, with the
means of living at ease and repairing visibly
the decayed fortunes of the family. Must
he not have desired to sink the shop by
leaving behind the theatre, which was for
him the shop? For answer, it may be re-
membered that he wrote in his sonnets: -

"Alas, 'tis true, I have gone here and there,
And made myself a motley to the view.
⋅ ⋅ ⋅ ⋅ ⋅ ⋅
O for my sake do you with fortune chide,
The guilty goddess of my harmful deeds,
That did not better for my life provide,
Than public means, which public manners breeds.
Thence comes it that my name receives a brand,
And almost thence my nature is subdued
To what it works in, like the dyer's hand;
Pity me then, and wish I were renewed."

	We would bring no railing accusation
against the "player-folk," though, in the
light of the sonnets, would Shakespeare
more likely have joined, on the question of
that life, its clerical and other eulogists, or
the Macreadys, Booths, and Mrs. Kemble,
with her account of her own loathing for it,
and of the ghastly vacuity of her aunt's
last days. that queen of the stage, Mrs. Sid-
dons? We know it is claimed there is no
sodality more ready to succor its needy
members, and we may readily believe that
the gentle, worthy and beloved Shakespeare,
as men were wont to call him, was a pretty
general favorite, none the less that he ap-
pears to have been capable of taking care of
himself, without asking favors, and not
above acting inferior parts. We know, too,
that the lines about to be quoted were
written for no one class or calling, as doubt-
less no one has a monopoly of the rivalries,
disappointments, and ungenerous prattices
which they describe; but, perhaps, the com-
mon judgment would little as any exempt
from their scope the professors of the his-
trionic art:—

"You run the race, the battle fight,
	And, eager, seize at last the prize;
The nectar in its goblet bright
	Is yours to drain 'neath beauty's eyes.
Yet are these honors out of date,
	They would not come when they were bid:
The longed-for draught is all too late—
	'Surgit amari aliquid.'

Or, haply, in the cruel strife
	You foully thrust a brother down,
And with his broken heart, or life,
	Purchased your bauble of a crown.
Wear it; but of remorsful thought
	In vain you struggle to be rid.
The triumph is too dearly bought—
	'Surgit amari aliquid.' "

	Why, then, import the theatre, a monu-
ment of so much that is sad and unworthy
in humanity, both simulated and real, in
many of the characters acted, and many of
the players who have acted them, into one
of earth's ideal spots of peaceful and refined
isolation from fierce excitement of business
and pleasure? Such Stratford seemed to us
on a summer's night and morning, now
seven years gone. Two visits we paid to
the home of his boyhood and one to the
church of his attendance and burial. Re-
finement, in one and a repeated word,
gathers up our impressions of Stratfords.
The place seems to have been finished three
centuries ago, and to be conscious, with a
quiet, unpretending dignity, of the historic
and poetic celebrity which then began to
be added to its natural loveliness of field,
stream, lanes and church-yard, the latter,

[Column 2]
but for the somewhat too grand and spacious
church, a perfect setting for Gray's Elegy.
	In such features as these, and in a certain
glorified atmosphere, Stratford and Weimar
seem to us much akin. The German town
has the advantage that its theatre is, if we
mistake not, as much a contemporaneous
monument of its classic age as is the church
where Herder preached, and the Grand-du-
cal palace with its mementos of Goethe's
taste. Perhaps the presence of a theatre
was as indispensable for Goethe's content
in Weimar as a home, as its absence for
Shakespeare's in Stratford. But we will
condone the theatre's intrusion into Strat-
ford, i[-] the memorial library under the same
roof be one where we can see all the early
folios, and the sumptuous editions on which
London aldermen have ruined themselves
and the best editions on which scholars have
spent labors of love, and above all, if the
art-gallery can bestow upon Shakespeare
those beautiful illustrations which, paid to
the Weimar galaxy of poets on the frescoed
walls of the Ducal residence, the homelike,
chaste, and elegant among palaces, seemed
to us the most appropriate memorials ever
awarded to genius.
	One can stand in few places upon earth
as impressive as the chancel of the church
in Stratford, where he looks down upon the
inscription of the pavement that covers
Shakespeare's ashes' and up to his mural
bust. We may compare with it in a degree
the tomb of Napoleon under the dome of
the Invalids, and the sarcophagus of Fred-
eric the Great, in the Garrison Church at
Potsdam. But where shall we find any
parallel to our reflections as we stand in
Shakespeare's early home in Henley street,
and think upon the miracle, that out of this
humble house proceeded the greatest prod-
igy of human nature, to express whose
range of thought and feeling acquired a
vocabulary double that of Milton, the im-
personation of high native powers perfected
by the finest cultivation?—The Watchman.
	Cambridge, April 23, 1879,


