HOME AFFAIRS.

	JULY number of the popular journal "Wo-
man's Words," just received. It contains a
sketch of the life and career of Miss Emma Ab-
bott, the young Prima Donna, and a portrait of
this lady adorns the first page. The pen sketch
is by Grace Greenwood.
	WE have received, from the editor, a copy
of "Woman at Work," published by Mrs. E.
T. Housh, in Louisville, Kentucky. It is an
interesting monthly journal of sixteen pages,
on tinted paper, and is devoted to mental,
moral and physical culture, self-helpfulness
and home adornment, and to the interests of
the Knights and Ladles of Honor.
	DR. CAROLINE P. WINSLOW and husband,
of Washington, D. C., recently paid a short
visit to this city. Dr. Winslow is a lady of
fine culture and superior attainments. In ad-
dition to her professional duties as a physician
and household cares, she is also editor of "The
Alpha," a monthly journal published by the
Moral Educational Society in Washington. Its
mottoes are "Human Rights before all Laws
and Constitutions." "Gerrit Smith." "The
Divine Right of every Child to be well Born."
	WE have learned by letter from "Sister
Eliza" that herself and the party of ladles who
accompanied her arrived safely, in good health
and excellent spirite, at Soda Springs, on the
23d of July, where they will probably remain
a few days. Some of the ladies being in deli-
cate health, they hope to recuperate, by drink
ing soda water and inhaling the pure mountain
air. The sisters have visited all the settle-
ments in Bear Lake Stake where there are or-
ganizations of of women, excepting Randolph
and Woodruff: have attended in all thirty-
four meetings, including general, Relief and
Primary. In returning home "Sister Eliza"
intends visiting Clifton, Gentile Valley and
Oxford, and will perhaps spend a little time at
Logan.
	THE Ladies' General Semi-Monthly Meeting
held in the FourteenthWard Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, July 10th, was a very interesting
one; Counselor Phebe Woodruff presiding
Remarks were made by Sisters Phebe Wood-


[Column 1]ruf[-], Bathsbeba W. Smith, Elizabeth Howard,
E. B. Wells, H. T. King, Ellen Bishop, Julia
Howe, E. S. Barney and E. S. Taylor. These
sisters dwelt much upon the subject of educa-
tion, and woman's work as an educator, and
urged the sisters to use their utmost influence
towards stimulatinf and inspiring their friends
to become public spirited and mutually helpful
in all matters of general interest, availing
themselves of all the opportunities within
their reach, and especially the ballot, which
right they enjoyed and should exercise. These
meetings have been a source of general in-
struction to the sisters—a blessing untold.
Here is an opportunity for women to hear and
speak on all matters that come within wo-
man’s range of thought and reasoning. Here
many women are learning to give expression
to their best thoughts intelligently.
	THE Children's Pinafore: The performance
of H. M. S. Pinafore, in miniature, in this
city, has been a great attraction recently. The
little folks who take part are all quite young,
the oldest being only fi[-]teen, and most of them
much younger. Miss Maggie Freeze who
plays the part of Josephine, has displayed ex-
traordinary talent in rendering it be perfectly.
Her manner is quaint and original, which
makes it all the more charming. The Misses
Felt do excellently well in their respective
characters of Little Buttercup and Cousin
Hebe. The Admiral, “his sisters, his cousins
and his aunts,” all perform wonderfully. Sir
Joseph’s acting was indeed artistic; the young
man showed considerable dramatic talent. The
singing, dancing and acting all deserve great
praise, and the Salt Lake audiences are certain-
ly indebted to the children and their instruc-
tors for a very pleasant pastime in the shape of
a dramatic and musical entertainment. There
are certainly some among them who ought to
have the best musical education possible.
Heber Goddard and Master Kirkman have
very fine voices, indeed they are remarkably
so. 
	KEY TO THE UNIVERSE: We have received
(politeness of Mr. Marian R. Pratt) Elder Or-
son Pratt's new scientific work entitled “Key
to the Universe, a New Theory of Mechanism:
founded first upon constant orbital propulsion,
arising from this velocity of gravity, and its
constant aberrations, and second upon a re-
sisting ethereal medium of variable density.”
Brother Pratt has made the sciences of philos-
ophy and astronomy the subject of years of
close and diligent investigation, devoting
much time, means and intense thonght to it in
hours when others slept, and has brought forth
new light upon these abstruse studies, which
should be joyfully welcomed by the world;
but these are things so little unders[-]ood that it
is not expected the work would be sought after
by the masses, but intelligent people should
view it in the light of new revelation concern-
ing the principles with which they desire to
acquaint themselves, in order to come to a
fulness of knowledge of things in the heavens
and in the earth. These will no doubt be re-
vealed through human agencies, quickened by
the Spirit of God, with which Bro. Pratt has
no doubt been blessed lu making his successful
and wonderful researches' in the boundless
land of science. The Saints intend their chil-
dren to excel in learning as well as all other
things, and in view of the progress of the
times should procure this new and excellent
work for their children if not for themselves.
Bro. Pratt is one of the oldest members of this
church and has labored earnestly and arduous-
ly to establish th[-]s kingdom, and should on
this account receive the liberal patronage of

[Column 2]
the Saints to assist him in publishing for the
benefit and enlightenment of others, books
containing the knowledge he has acquired by 
patient industry and toll by day and by night


