EDITOR EXPONENT:

	A report of the first conference held in
this Stake of Zion for the sisters. It was
held at Manti City, on Monday, May 19th.
	We were blessed with the presence of
Sisters Eliza R. Snow and M. I. Horne,
who were making a visit through the coun-
try, holding meetings and organizing Pri-
mary Associations.
	The conference was called to order by
Sister M. A. P. Hyde, President of the
Stake. Exercises, singing, prayer, singing.
	There were present on the stand Presi-
dent Eliza R. Snow, M. I. Horne and M. A.
P. Hyde, with her counselors, Elizabeth
Allred and Anna Larsen; also the presi-
dents of the several Relief Societies of the
Stake; also present President Petersen and
Counselors, with many other brethren.
	The reports of the several societies were
read, which showed that the sisters had
been alive to their duties and energetic in
forwarding the work of God.
	Sister Hyde then expressed her thank-
fulness for having the presence of the sis-
ters from S. L. City, on such an important
occasion.
	Sister Snow then addressed the congre-
gation, principally on home manufacture
and on becoming self-sustaining. Asked
the sisters if they were preparing for Baby-
lon to fall? Told them to take hold of silk
manufacturing, and plant mulberry trees
and prepare to make their own apparel.
	Spoke of having a hospital that could be
controlled by those of our own [---], that
there could be a place where the young girls
could be taught to administer herbs in faith
and become good, efficient nurses and un-
derstand the human system.
	She then organized a Silk Association,
with Rebecca Wareham, President; Mary
Lowery, Sister Wybee, Counselors; Alvira
C. Cox, Secretary; Edith Billings, Treasur-
er; and all the members of the Relief Socie-
ties and Y. L. M. I. Associations as mem-
bers of the Silk Association; also asked that
an agent be appointed in each Relief Socie-
ty for the Silk Association.
	President Petersen then expressed his
gratification with the proceedings of me
Conference and the remarks that had been
made. Asked God to bless Sister Snow and
all the sisters in their labors to build up the
kingdom of God. And all the Saints with
love and union.
	Singing, benediction. Meeting adjourn-
ed until 1 p. m.

	Afternoon Session.—Meeting was called
to order by President M. A. P. Hyde. After
the usual exercises, President Hyde pro-
ceeded to organize the Y. L. M. I. Associa-
tion in a Stake capacity: Helen Armstrong;
President; Christina Willertsen, Matilda
Delean, Counselors; Viola Vancott, Secre-
tary; Sophia Anderson, Treasurer. Sister
Horne then addressed the congregation on
the training of children. Said it was very
necessary for mothers to have the spirit of
God to direct them in the training of their
children, that they might be enabled to
teach them in the spirit of the gospel and
fit them to become celestialized beings.
Told the mothers to teach the children the
principles of the Gospel before they arrived
to years of accountability. A number of
other sisters spoke, all felt highly edified
with the instructions given by the worthy
Sisters Snow and Horne. They were suffi-
cient, if observed and put into practice by
the people to qualify them for an exaltation

[Column 2]
in the Celestial Kingdom of our God, which
is hoped will be our happy lot.
