MISSIONARY.

	A TELEGRAM was received in this city on
Monday, July 21, stating that Elder Joseph
Standing had been shot by a mob of ten or
twelve men on that day near Varnelles, 25 miles
from Chattanooga, Catoosa Co., in the State of
Georgia. Elder Rudger Clawson, another
young missionary, was with Bro. Standing,
but escaped unharmed. Bro. Standing was a
very exemplary young man, and gave great
promise of usefulness; was about twenty-four
years of age. His parents, brothers and sisters
reside at Hampton’s, near Bear River bridge.
They are very worthy people, and will deeply
mourn the loss of a son so worthy their loye
and confidence; but he has died a martyr’s
death, and earned the crown laid up for those
who suffer death for Christ’s sake. He has
died with the full armor of the Gospel upon


him, and gone to join the innumerable compa-
ny, who are crying from under the altar,
“How long, O Lord, how long?" For him we
may drop a few tears of love, sympathizing with
his bereaved parents and family, but we need
not mourn, for he has won the victory, while
those who remain know not what the end may
be. Preparations are being made to make his
funeral one of public interest, and many expres-
sions of sympathy from his fiiends have been
published in the dally papers.
	The Presidency of the Stake have notified the
people that the funeral will take place in the
Large Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, on Sunday,
August 3d, 1879, commencing at 10 o’clock a.m.
The various orders of the Priesthood have been
assigned seats in regular order. The Seventies
in the southeast corner ot the body of the Ha[-]il.
The High Priests in the north-east corner of
the body of the Hall. The Elders on the south
side, directly behind the Seventies. The Lesser
Priesthood on the north side, directly behind
the High Priests. Other societies and organ-
izations will form directly in the rear of the
Priesthood. All others may be seated in any
part of the building not occupied. Arrange-
ments have been made with all the railroad
lines running into Salt Lake City, to bring
and return those desirous of attending the
funeral at half price.


