COUNTY CONVENTION.

	ON Monday evening, July 21, primary meet-
ings were held in the several precincts, and
delegates appointed to the County Convention
on the 26th inst. Among the delegates were
several ladies. The primaries were all quietly
conducted in a business-like manner.
	On Saturday, at 11 o'clock a.m., the County
Convention met pursuant to call in the City
Hall. Delegates were present from almost ev-
ery district. Among the delegates were a few
ladies, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. Rebecca Riter,
Mrs. Elizabeth Howard, Mrs. Diana Reid, Mrs.
Anna Cross, Mrs. Louisa J. Ball. There were
some lady alternates who were admitted as
members of the Convention. Prof. T. B.
Lewis was elected temporary chairman and
W. L. Binder secretary. Committee on cre-
dentials, Messrs. J. R. Winder, George Rom-
ney, David O. Calder, Archibald Gardner, and
Joseph S. Rawlins. After the Committee had
retired the chairman pro tem. made some sug-
gestive remarks, in regard to the importance
of electing good men, full of integrity, to offi-
ces among the people. The committee on cre-
dentials, returning, made a report which was
promptly adopted.
	The Convention was then permanently or-
ganized by electing Bishop John Henry Smith
chairman, Archibald Gardner and Adam
Spiers vice-presidents, T. E. Taylor and W. L.
Binder secretaries, Bishop Crane chaplain and
Wm. Naylor sergeant-at-arms.
	A motion was made and accepted that the
chairman appoint a committee on nominations;
the following persons were then appointed:
Davi[-] O. Calder, Frank Armstrong, Henry
Dinwoodey, William Asper, Adam Spiers, Al-
exander Hill, Samuel Bennion, Joseph S.
Rawlins, Henry Day, Elizebeth Howard, Alma
L. Smith. The committee retired and by in-
vitation a few brief speaches were made.
The committee returned and reported nom-
inations, which were accepted, and the names
taken separately and voted upon; the nom-
inations were all sust[-]ined.
	Commissioners to Locate University Lands
—	L. S. Hills, John Rowberry, John Van Cott.
	Auditor of Public Accounts—Nephi W.
Clayton.
	Territorial Superintendent of District Schools
—	John Taylor.
	Councilors to the Legislative Assembly—
Joseph F. Smith, D. H. Wells, W. W. Cluff,
John T. Caine.
	Representative to the Legislature—John
Jaques.
	Selectman—E. M. Weiler.
	County Superintendent of District Schools—
T. B. Lewis.
	It was decided that the local officers chosen
to fill vacancies in the various precincts re-
ceive the endorsement of the Convention.
	Just prior to adjournment, the following per-
sons were sustained by the Convention as the
County Central Committee: John Sharp,
David O. Calder, Angus M. Cannon, John R.
Winder, Feramoiz Little, John T. Caine, The-
odore McKean, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. S. M.
Kimball, Mrs. M. I. Horne, John F. Snedaker,
Joseph S. Rawlins, I. M. Stewart, Samuel
Bennion, T. E. Taylor.
	A vote of thanks was tendered to the chair-
man and officers of the Convention, and after
benediction by the chaplain, the Convention
adjourned sine die.


