WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	ARINGDON HOUSE, Evington Road,
					Leicester, England.
							July 8, 1879.
	MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	My dear sister—It is with much pleasure
that I sit down with the attempt to fulfill my
promise. Hoping you have not come to the
conclusion that I had forgotten. I have writ-
ten several letters to my family, which of course
you would s[-]y was natural, but I have really
found very little time for writing, one letter
per week seeming to be as much as I could
manage. Doubtless you would learn from my
good husband with regard to my prosperious
journey safe arrival, kind reception, etc.
My brother has a beautiful home and lovely
surroundings, with every comfort, but I would
not exchange for my dear home in Utah.
With all the kindness of my brother and his
family, there is somthing wanting, that is only
to be found in the society of the Saints of God.
of which there are but few in Leicester, and
those few most of them are intending to emi-
grate this Fall. It was quite a little time before
my Son found out that there was a meeting
any where, and then we found about six or
[-]even who had met on the Sunday afternoon
to partake of the Sacrament and to bear there
testimony. This was in a small house occupide
by Brother Robrrson. They did not have any
Singing because it annoyed their neighbors.
Thus you will conceive how I miss our happy
meetings at home. I have visited one Sister and
have promised to go with Sister Roberson to
visit another to morrow. My associations are
mostly with those, who are not of our faith
consequently my greatest comfort is in reading

[Column 2]
our works, and in communing with my Father
in heaven, for Oh. How little do the people of
the world care about the true Gospel. If you
lend them books few care to read, or investigate
the principles of our faith, for themselves.
Truly it is, as has been said that darkness
covers the earth, and gross darkness the minds
of the people, and if any inquires are made it
is with regard to polygamy which some of my
old friends think is very immodest and say they
should have thought I was the last one to have
believed and practised such immorality. Yet
from what I can gather my uative place is full
of corruption and immorality, and happy mar-
riages are the exception. I called upon a lady
the other day, who was an acquaintance of
mine in my girl-hood, she had been abroad a
number of years, her only Son lives with her
in an elegant home he is about forty years of
age. I asked her why he did not get married
she replied that young men feared to marry,
so few young ladies were domesticated, and
were so extravagant in dress, that men were
afraid to venture the expense of a wife. She
also acknowledged to me that ladies, with
splendidly furnished homes, did not keep any
company on acount of jealousies that arose
through the too great intimacy with the op-
posite sex. I said I considered Polygamy was
far preferable. I need not tell you that Poly-
gamy as they term it is the only subject they
care to inquire about. And the question
generally asked is "Has your husband another
wife"? Which I invariably answered in the
affirmative, which they conclude is very wrong
but I contend that it is not only a command of
the Almighty but is really much better than
the corrupt state of society in the world, which
a lady on the cars while traveling through the
States admitted. She told me of many horrible
instances of infanticide, and procuring abortion
that she was personaly acquainted with, having
been a nurse; her accounts made me shudder
surely their cup of iniquity is fast filling up.
	I met with several intelligent ladies while
traveling on the cars, and some very agreeable
ones on the vessel and quite a number of
divines of different denominations. We had
one service on the Sunday when the Captain
read the Church of England Service, and one
of the Ministers preached on the forgiveness of
sins, but did not bring in baptism for the re-
mission of sins. This same gentleman, came
in contact with David Dunbar and several of
the young missionaries David corner[-]d him so
closely bringing Scripture to prove the cor-
rectness of his views that he became quite
wrathy and left them in disgust. You would
learn from Mr. G. what a poor sailor I am be-
ing sick, most of the way, but had every at-
tention, from the stewardess who was very
kind. The Wisconsin is a nice vessel and I
would like to return with her: never heard the
Captain speak an angry word. We had a very
favorable voyage, much better than the Nevada
the one your son in law (Mr. Sears) sailed in
Joseph met with him at Birmingham and slept
in the same room with him. My son is labor-
ing in the Sheffield Conference. I received a
letter from him a few days since in which he
speaks of the destitution of the people there.
The few Saints there, are poor but very kind
hearted. It is so hard to get any one to come
to hear them in doors, that they have recourse
to out door preaching generally which he says
was rather rough on him at first, but is getting
used to it, and realizes that the Lord is with
him. The experiences of most of the Elders is,
I think, that it is like the gathering of grapes
when the vintage is over. Few care for the
Truth being lovers of pleasure, moor than lov-
ers of God. Leicester is a flourishing town, many

[Column 3]
people I formerly knew in middling circum-
stances, have become very wealthy and have
their country villas. I have attended Christ
Church once; a Church I attended regularly
before I was marri[-]d aud once enjoyed the
ceremony appears now cold meaningless
formality and there was nothing to the sermon
The Minister was a converted Jew.
	Mr. Talmage is expected in Leicester but I
do not know whether I shall go to hear him,
the charges of admission are high. It is quite
a money-making affair. Well my dear sister I
am not in love with my native town nor with
the climate it has rained more or less every day
since I arrived with very few exceptionsand so
cold that I often put on a shawl in the house.
On the fourth of July I felt like sitting by the
fire all day. Yesterday was about the finest
day we have had, to day a thunderstorm dull
and gloomy most of the day hence my op-
portunity for writing. Next week I expect to
go to Manchester I should have gone to London
before this had the weather been more settled.
Give my kind love to my dear Sisters Grant,
Smith & Wells, also Sister Atwood, in fact to
all my good sisters and tell them I know I
have had their faith and prayers, and they
have had mine, and long for the time to come
when I hope to have the privilege of meeting
with them again as we have been wont to do.
I some-times feel a wanderer from home, kindly
love to Sister Whitney, and love to all who
may inquire after me. Thanks for the Expo-
nent. Shall be pleased to recive a few lines.
Give my love to Sister Grant and tell her I
will try and write to her next. Praying we
may all meet again soon I remain yours most
affectionately.
						E. H. Goddard.


