TOOELE STAKE.

	The second Quarterly Conference of the
Relief and Young Ladies' Association of
Tooele Stake of Zion was held in the Social
Hall, at Grantsville, on Saturday and Sun-
day, June 14th and 15th, 1879, Mrs. Mary
A. Hunter and Counselors presiding.

[Column 3]
Present on the stand; were Miss E. R.
Snow, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. Bathsheba
W. Smith, from Salt Lake City; President
F. M. Lyman and Bishops Hunter, Tuttle,
Martin, and Patriarch John Rowberry.
Meeting opened by singing and prayer.
After the minutes of the last Quarterly
Conference were read and accepted, Presi-
dent M. A. Hunter made some opening re-
marks. Miss E. R. Snow then gave a very
interesting address, said she was delighted
to see so many of the brethren present and
was glad to see so many of her sisters; said
that man and woman's interests were one,
and that we were born to labor for the in-
terests of Zion; exhorted all to faithfulness,
and urged mothers to look after the welfare
of their children. Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith loved to mingle with her sisters and
exhorted them to seek earnestly for the
Spirit of God and to store their minds with
knowledge. Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the
condition of the world and the im-
possibility of the women of the world
understanding the women of Utah. She
spoke at some length upon Celestial Mar-
riage and a great many interesting subjects.
President F. M. Lyman endorsed the sen-
timents expressed by the sisters. Meeting
adjourned till 2 o'clock.

	Afternoon Session.—The Presidents of the
Relief Societies of the different Wards gave
verbal reports, showing their Societies were
in good condition, and that all the members
are anxious to do the will of the Lord, and
to be self-sustaining. The Tooele Ward
had started a silk association and also
[-]traw-braiding; had some specimens of bon-
nets which were equal to those imported,
both in the quality, braiding and making
up.
	A Primary Association was organized for
the children at Grantsville, with 113 mem-
bers;  Sister Sarah Hale, President; Sister
Louisa Hale and Mary Post Counselors.
	Statistical.—No. of Wards 6; officers and
members, 406.
	Financial.—In treasury in cash and pro-
perty, $460 13 ½; donated to the Temple,
$11 80; donated to the poor, $112 33; wheat
on hand, 676 bushels and 15 lbs.

		MARY A. HUNTER, President,
		MARY A. HOUSE, Secretary.
				ANN TATE, Cor. Sec.


