			TRUTH.

	How careful we should all be to speak the
truth in every instance! There is nothing
more sad, or painful to see, or more to be
pitied in this world than an untruthful
child. And who but parents will be respon-
sible, if they set the example, or add to or
exaggerate anything while telling it before
their children. I have even seen a parent
tell an untruth before his child, and then
whip the child because it would not ac-
knowledge the falsehood to be truth; and
yet he never seemed to think, or realize the
injury he was doing his child, or the exam-
ple he was setting before it. And I verily
believe there are plenty of such things
going on with never a thought given to the
evil seed sewn. How much should we pray
for wisdom to guide us in raising our child-
ren in the paths of good, and be careful of
the example we set before them. Oh! how
bitterly I feel my ignorance, now, when I
realize how much better I might have done
by reading and striving constantly to find
the better way in which to rear my child;
and by never giving way to anger and to
hasty and uncalled-for speeches. I think,
above all things we should teach our little
ones to be truthful and honest, and to do
this we must always be so ourselves; for
truly our sins follow after us to the third
and fourth generation, and perhaps through
all time. We commit great sin in not in-
forming our minds, and not gaining a know-
ledge of the best methods of teaching, and
then by not putting into practice what we
do know.
	There are so many things that could be
said, and so much reformation needed on
this subject, but I feel that if I could succeed
in setting one soul to thinking and striving
to overcome, I would have my hundredfold
reward in thinking of it; for I do desire to
see the children of Zion trained in the way
of the Lord and the principles of truth and
righteousness; and unless we become wise,
mothers, how can we expect to be good
teachers of our children? Then let us never
falsify, even in jest.
	Before closing, I will give yon one or two
illustrations: Two sisters went visiting, the
elder sister taking her child Alice with her.
While Alice was out playing, she went into
a neighbor’s garden and pulled some tur-
nips. The younger sister, going out, saw
her, and when she returned she told her
sister. “I do not believe the child would
do such a thing,” said the mother. “But I
saw her, and called her away,” replied the
younger sister. The mother became very
angry, and when the child came in, said,
“Alice, you did not pull any turnips, did
you?” The child hesitated a moment, then
answered, “No, mother.” A few words of
dispute followed, but the mother persisted,
saying she know Alice did not do so. Thus
she encouraged her child, if not to steal, to
tell an untruth to hide a theft when she had
committed one. Surely the mother did
not realize what she was doing! We will
allow her that much for charity’s sake. 
	Here is another illustration,
Two travelers stopped at our house, one
coming a short time before the other.
When the last one had been in a few mo-
ments, he asked how long it had been since
the first one’s arrival, “only a few moments”
I answered; “I hope he has not missed his
plug of tobacco and box of matches I found
in the wagon track; he must have lost them
or he would have found them in driving
over them,” he said. His mother, being
with him, heard his remark, and said: “I
would not mention it before him, any way,”
Smiling, I asked her: “Is that the way you
teach your son honesty?” She seemed quite
 embarrassed, but replied, “he could claim
 it if it should not be his,” "if he is the
owner, he could easily describe it,” I an-
swered. She claims to be a good woman’
and to have raised her children as nearly
right as she could. I know she has some
very rough, wild boys, whether such
things as the above has any thing to do with
it I leave you, my readers, to judge. with
many good wishes for the prosperity of the
EXPONENT and its Editor.—Gypsy Golden.


