CORRESPONDENCE.

			HOBART TOWN, May 5th, 1879.
MRS. E. B. WELLS:
	Dear Sister:—Your letter, dated March 1st,
1879, came duly to hand. I find the EPPONENT
both very interesting and instructive, and,
placed as we are in this far off land, anything
coming from Zion has a double interest; for
they seem like words of great encouragement
from dear friends, for though many miles of
sea divide us, still that unexplainable some-
thing forms the bond of love, and I feel
strangely united to the Saints of Zion; such a
different bond of love and sympathy to any
that can be found anywhere else in this world;
and greatly do I long to gather with the Saints,
but when I shall be able to get away from here
I cannot tell. I thank our Heavenly Father
that my husband does not offer any objections
to my following up the word of God so far as
I can without leaving here. There are many
unpropitious circumstances. We've lived here
a great number of years, and have been blessed
in temporal things; only having one daughter,
and she being married and having a young
family, it seems but natural that a very strong
tie is thus formed which keeps us from being
inclined to sell off and bid farewell to Tasma-
nia; though for my own part, much as I love
my child and grand-children, still I feel that I
could leave all for the sake of the blessings
which are promised to those who obey the
Gospel; but as the Lord does not see fit to re-


lease me yet from Babylon, I try to serve Him
as best I can here and wait as patiently as pos-
sible for His time, for we know that He has
said that He will release those who trust in
Him.
	It was a source of great comfort to the few
Saints here to have a visit from Brother F. J.
May. You doubtless know that there are only
three Saints here, one Elder and two sisters,
including myself, and as we all belong to this
place you can easily judge how pleased we
were to have the society and counsel of our
brother; he stayed with us about two months,
and made our house his home; he did not
preach in the town but took several trips into
the country, [-]ut without any apparent success;
he took one trip right through the Island, on
foot, preaching at all the towns on his way; he
did not meet with much kindness; in most
places they treated him with indifference, but
in Lancastor, the city at the north of the
Island, they gave him some rather rough
treatment, some striking him and the mob be-
ing about to treat him to a ducking in the
river; he claimed police protection and had to
keep indoors until leaving there, which he did
pretty soon.
	The folks in the Colony generally do not
seem to take much interest in the Gospel. in
fact the population generally are adverse and
put every possible obstacle in the way; we few
here have to keep quiet or we should have any-
thing but a pleasant time of it. It gives me
great pleasure to mark the spread of the Gospel
in other places, and judging by the signs of the
times we are truly in the last days.
	Should you think it not too much trouble to
write me I should only be too glad to receive as
many letters as you can write, and give you as
much information as possible about this place.
	May God bless and prosper you in your ef-
forts, and preserve all His Saints, is the prayer
of your sister in the Gospel.
