REFLECTIONS.

	I believe that every kind’ and charitable
deed or act that Is wrought by the spirit
and influence of divine grace, or through
love and respect to the word of God, the
same will be recognized and approbated of
God In all cases where suffering humanity
requires those acts; whether the supplicant
be called saint or sinner, although I think
the latter has sometimes been vainly substi-
tuted as a foundation for objectionable
causes and excuses for neglect, even in: cir-
cumstances of special need; but this I con-
sider is no model for us who profess to be
the disciples and followers of Jesus Christ.
We do not acquire one system of practice,
precepts and rules through the wicked in.
fluences, where there is no foundation; but
we have the best code of morals, which
teaches us to love our enemies, and I believe
that Gospel charity, whether it be of words
or deeds, being administered in the spirit of
lovingkindness, will, with God’s help, re-
sult in much good; and if the effect does
not immediately appear, the administration
may, after many days, be brought to remem-
brance. But let faith and works be com.
bined in all our acts of kindness, that they
may be approved of God and attended with
divine blessing. Then we shall see the af-
flicted rejoice, and if we labor for righteous-
ness’ sake, our reward is sure. Finally, let
us strive with all diligence and pray ear-
nestly that our hearts become sanctified to
God, pure and holy, that all we do may be
done with an eye to his glory; for by our
works we shall be judged.
	I believe that in this great and last dis-
pensation of the fulness of times, there will
be much required of the people of God,
both to do and to endure, and without the
whole armor of godliness, I think we shall
be found wanting. I feel for one we have
much to do and much to gain before we shall
be able to accomplish altogether a good pur-
pose in this point of view; but by the grace
of God I can say, that I do not feel at all
discouraged for the Gospel. Truth truly
grows brighter and brighter to me, and I
am resolved to press forward towards the
mark of high calling, closely adhering to
my abiding motto—Faith, Hope and Perse-
verance. I believe there is no opposite
power that shall be able to stay our onward
progress unto victory. That we may.gain
an eternal exaltation in the kingdom of our
Father is my ardent hope and prayer.
	Centerville.		S. A. R.


