[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | February | Issue: 14 | Title: THE SUFFRAGE MOVEMENT IN ENG- | Author: Unknown]

THE SUFFRAGE MOVEMENT IN ENG-
			LAND.
	The phenomenon of the “Suffragette”—
generic title accorded to the representatives
of the militant movement on behalf of the
woman’s vote in England—has its organized
rival in a non-militant advocacy of the re-
form movement, whose adherents are
termed Suffragists even when respect is pas-
sive; besides these two, there is a third an-
tithetic party, frankly antagonistic to the
vote, who proclaim themselves as Anti-
suffragists. In addition, there is a surviv-
ing residue of English women whose fav-
orite policy is to evade the subject, but who,
if cornered for a definition of their views,
frown or smile, and confess to “not really
care for politics at all.”
	A dozen years ago in London, though the
term “New Woman,” exploited in a more
or less witty problem novel by Sarah
Grande, sounded somewhat stale, Women’s
Suffrage was not in the air current. What
was understood as essentially appertaining
to the matter had been discussed in courtly
fashion the foregone century: Tennyson’s
reflective intellect having bequeathed to
“sweet girl graduates” a sane analysis of
poignant complex questions in the sustained
rhythm, varied with melodic interludes, of
The Princess. To speak of “Women’s
Rights,” a score of years ago, was to recall
the domestic chaos of the Jellaby household,
if not to evoke simultaneously the shade of
Mrs. Pardiggle, whose visitations upon the
homes of the poor were inseparable with
havoc to outstanding articles wrought by
her sweeping train. If Dickens, or if Ten-
nyson, recalled to the scene of earthly vision,
could be asked to translate his impressions
of “The Signs of the Times,” as presented
by the campaign of his aggressive country-
women today, one wonders what creation of
an emancipated “type,” embodied in immor-
tal novel; what revelation of reversal to the
eternal feminine ideal, inspiring enchanting
verse, would be added to the world’s store?
	Though these return not, contemporary
literary opinion on the matter in question is
overtly expressed from time to time. Mr.
G. B. Shaw, the sardonic satirist of that
New England play, The Devil’s Disciple,
who has since, one suspects, become a satir-
ical poseur, has achieved a characteristic ex-
position of the subject in a stage-piece enti-
tled Fanny’s First Play. The acknowledged
head of the Anti-suffrage League is that
serene star of society and cultured conven-
tion, Mrs. Humphrey Ward. Miss Marie
Corelli has expressed a doubt as to the av-
erage British woman being a responsible
claimant for the imperial vote. Ouida,
whose latter volume of Critical Essays re-
vealed her to be secondary in intellectual
acumen to no predecessor amongst English-
speaking sister writers, left a word about
the matter prior to her lonely passing:—it
was a logical statement to the effect that the
assumption of' “equality” in certain senses
between the differently organized beings


[Column 1]
woman and man would result in the for-
feiture of that chivalry which is man’s defer-
ence, not to woman’s inherent weakness only,
but to her dower of delicacy and fineness,
psychal and temperamental, in the sum of
her strength.
	What, after all, is the destiny that woman
in her best development was intended by the
law of furtherance to fulfil? To achieve
submergence of her womanhood, a bur-
lesquing travesty of man, until Nature, out-
raged, brands her as a monstrous abortion,
or Time, in reactionary adjustment, disowns
her ancestry amidst a compensated genera-
tion’s laughter? Or is it for her to know
herself, complete, unique in individuality in-
deed, but in the electrical light of compar-
ison, seen decreed within herself to be, not
man’s double, but his complement, as surely
as he is hers? To recognize this is the rec-
ognize elemental truth, potentially motioned
towards infinite altitudes of the ideal in
realization. What, one ponders, can be the
attitude thereto of the militant Suffragists,
whose blatant egoism, revealed in vagaries
of ever increasing violence, has scourged the
land with lawlessness broadcast, soliciting
condonence of its crimes in pseudo-martyr-
dom?
	My introduction towards this form of suf-
fragism was at a certain stall of an exhibi-
tion, some seven years ago. Behind this stall
was a typical Suffragette, who, on my mak-
ing cursory examination of the pamphlets
and other suffrage “literature” of the stall,
advertised the opinions she was representing
in a hard, measured voice. She spoke in ex-
aggerated terms of a Miss Somebody whose
prowess appeared to consist in having in
various ways proved herself the equal of
man, in total independence of all masculine
aid, paternal or otherwise. “We” meaning
the amazonian army of the militant sister-
hood—“are prouder of her than of Joan of
Arc.”
	Joan the Maid, who spent her heroic life-
blood for a selfless realization of a dream, I
had heard of from time to time since daisy-
chain days: of the former lady never previ-
ously. The words and tone of the proclaimer
of her fame, however, brought by frictional
process to my mind the words of Tennyson:
	“Each like to each, yet like in difference.”
	“I think,” I replied, “a woman should
supplement, not substitute a man. Men
should be chivalrous.”
	Meanwhile the discussion had attracted a
little band of auditors around the stall.
Amongst them was an unmistakable French-
man, in an inverness cloak and wide-
brimmed hat; and a matronly elderly woman.
	At the latter words the Frenchman grave-
ly doffed his chapeau, while the woman said:
	“Men in England are not chivalrous as
they used to be in my younger days, and its
just the Suffragettes who are spoiling them
for us all!”
	Half a dozen years, and the Suffragette
vendor of the militant journal, Votes for
Women, has become as familiar a figure of
London streets as the Turkish bath sand-
wichman. Meanwhile, she had contrived to
contribute to the world a series of shocks.
Sudden sallies by surreptitious means into
the sacred precincts of parliament, attempted
invasion of the premier’s residence, have
been followed by wholesale smashing of
windows, and the destruction of the com-
munity’s letters in the public pillar-boxes.

[Column 2]
Churches have been burned to the ground,
priceless pictures ruthlessly destroyed;
policemen have been struck in the face in the
official discharge of duty by those Mrs.
Gamp would have been apt to describe with
certain qualifications as “female women.”
In goal for the crime of arson, when whole-
sale destruction of life has been narrowly
averted, the insurgent patriot on behalf of
women’s vote obtains a speedy release
through the ruse of hunger-striking; her re-
turn to freedom is celebrated by a banquet
at one of the most expensive hotels.
	But one day the world rings with an act
which makes the most daring deed of Don
Quixote pale before it. Not the quiet plain
which stretched around revolving wind-mills
that the Don mistook is the scene of adven-
ture, but the crowded spectacle of the royal
Derby race-course. A militant Suffragette
having evaded the barriers has thrown her-
self amongst the horses while they were
galloping by. A jockey, whose horse was
caused to stumble, escaped with a slight
injury; but in a few days the woman dies
of the hurts received. And the militant pro-
pagandists of the Vote advertise a spectac-
ular funeral. The cause has at length a
martyr.
	At the funeral of Don Quixote one would
surely weep; he sought not the applause of a
community, nor desired posthumous fame.
Save for one poor serving-man, the exploits
of his knight-errantry were performed alone.
He would not have hurt a lamb, whose iden-
tity was apparent as such. Alas! poor gen-
tleman, he was subject to illusions. But a 
woman of established sanity, in the hey-dey
of life’s prime, indued with the privilege of
intellectual culture—she had graduated from
a university with the degree of B. A.—had
thrown away her life for an act in which
not reason was justified, nor utility served.
	There is usually perceptible in a waiting
crowd the prevailing sentiment which has
gathered it together. It was a general half-
holiday, the day on which the dead Suffra-
gette’s funeral procession was to pass. The
route had been advertised, and in the bril-
liant sunshine the street-curbs were lined
with multitudes eager to be diverted by a
spectacle, possessed with sensational curi-
osity which had a certain morbid under-
current here and there. At length from the
ranks of onlookers was shouted, “Hark!
here they come!” A band was heard, and
nearer and nearer came the wailful strains of
Chopin’s Marche Funebre. Two glass
hearses appeared, containing wreaths and
other floral tributes. Then came an open
hearse, from which a crape-bound pennon
fluttered heavily; upon that, smothered in
white and purple flowers, was the coffin.
Then advanced a long procession of motley
banners. In the rear they stretched the
length of the street, high above the heads of
the crowd. Many of them rich in texture,
a few were emblematic in design; most,
however, reared a motto or scripture text in
purple letters upon a white background.
Certain of the former represented civic or-
ganizations conducted by men, whose polit-
ical opinions accord with the suffragist
movement. Most dolorous was one repre-
senting a society of women writers, the de-
sign of a rising sun in gold upon a white
background shining dimly through black
chiffon drapery. Of the texts and mottoes
held aloft, the selection or wording consti-
tuted a lurid revelation of the thought con-
fusion and the aberration of sentiment at

[Column 3]
the basis of the British Suffrage movement
as it appears in the prenomenon of “mili-
tancy.” For instance, “Give me Freedom or
give me Death,” seemed calculated to impel
a more casual mind than Pilate’s to turn
over the query, “What is Freedom?”
“Fight on, and God will give the Victory,”
the injunction on another banner, was some-
what provocative of inquiry as to the mili-
tant Suffragists’ religious creed. Certain
direct quotations from scripture had a more
painful effect upon those who hold the ideals
of Christianity in reverence. One of these,
indeed, in relation to that coffin, seemed su-
premely pitiful through the falseness of the
relevancy, “She hath done what she could.”
That the epitaph to describe the culminating
rashness of a once promising career, cut
short at its zenith? Had the act which cost
the woman graduate her life been to stop a
run-away dray, in order to save a little child,
or even a pet dog from injury, the applica-
tion might have served. But then there
would have been no pompous procession; no
banners nor bands for the diverted multi-
tude. What is it Charles Reade, in his
preface to a great book, has said concern-
ing sorrows suffered in silence, noble deeds
done without recognition, burdens bravely
borne every day by those “obscure heroes,
philosophers and martyrs that people earth?”
But a band in the rear was now passing, and
again the strains of Chopin wailed forth in-
finite lament. Well might the mournful music
wail on this bright day for the vigorous life
laid low prematurely. The woman in her
coffin was a martyr, after all; not in a great
and noble sense, but one supremely pitiful—
the martyr of a cause whose inherent blun-
derings have resulted in wild and wilder an-
archy, now at length emblazoning itself with
a vain apotheosis of its first victim unto
death. The pity of the individual tragedy of
a wasted sacrifice almost hallowed the propa-
gandists’ farce. As the music passed out of
hearing onward with the coffin towards the
station, I thought of certain lines learned
long ago by heart, which first conveyed the
idea of woman’s rights in a serious sense to
me. Perhaps the dead Suffragette had
known and felt them, too, until the octopus
of notoriety, with its fatal clutch, marred in
her the sense of the truth and fitness of
things. The lines are uttered by “The
Princess” to her fellow-seekers who would
stake the utmost for the highest:
						“Girls,
Knowledge is now no more a fountain seal’d:
Drink deep, until the habits of the slave,
Gossip and slander, die. Better not be
At all, than not be noble!”
