[WomansExponent | Vol25 | 1896 | April | Issue: 19 | Title: TIETH BIRTHDAY, MARCH 1ST 1897. | Author: Unknown]

TIETH BIRTHDAY, MARCH 1ST 1897.

THOU favored Prophet of the Lord most high,
So near thou standest to the Holy Gate,
Which entrance to the Great Tribunal leads,
Where sit in council o’er the world’s affairs—
And things respecting worlds innumerable—
The Eloheim, Jehovah, God and Christ,
That as we look on thee, our thoughts revert
To Moses, when, upon Mount Sinai,
He talked with God, and then to Israel,
We listen for thy voice to speak God’s word
Unto His chosen sons and daughters now,
As Moses spake to Jacob’s children then.

Not out of Egypt, but from every land
Is Israel gathered in this latter time;
Not unto Canaan, but to Deseret,
A land of promise and a home of peace
To all who love and serve the one true God;
And thousands still are gathering year by year,
But ah! too much like ancient Israel.
Hard-heartedness and stubborness of will
Oft hold us from receiving precious gifts
And blessings which the Lord would fain bestow.
Teach us, thou friend of God to better know
And understand and serve and worship Him.
Teach us humility; and plead for us,
That all our hearts may softened be, and pure;
That we may follow closely after thee,
And with thee stand, at last, inside the gate.


As Moses’ hands were steadied and upheld
By Aaron and by Hur upon the mount,
While Israel prevailed against her foes,
So may thy counselors George and Joseph, stand
Forever firm, as they have ever been,
Sustaining thee, while Israel of today
Shall triumph over all opposing powers.
And may thy days and years be lengthened out
To lead the Saints from underneath each ban,
Which now curtails their efforts and their aims,
To victory and honor, full and free,
When they are humbled, purified and cleansed
From all their pride, self-will and covetousness.
And may they better learn to prize thy worth,
To emulate thy meekness and thy faith,
To fully trust and truly venerate
The man, who stands so near the Heavenly Gate.
