GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 305 wards to the Presiding Bishop's Office. The letter was read by the General Secretary, and is as follows: "April 4, 1922. "To Relief Society Stake Presidents. "Dear Sisters: At the October, 1921, Relief Society Conference (General Officers' Meeting) with the approval and consent of the First Presidency of the Church, the General Board of Relief Society presented for the consideration of the stake officers assembled, the matter of inaugurating a movement in the interest of maternity and motherhood throughout the Church, and the proposition of having the interest on the Relief Society Wheat Fund, in all the wards of the Church, turned over to the General Board to be used in the interest of the movement. "President Williams, at this time, called attention to the fact that the expense connected with childbirth today is so great that many young couples are compelled to begin the rearing of families by going into debt; also, that in many rural districts, prospective mothers are often denied the opportunity of having proper advice or instruction, or even proper care at these critical times. "Tt was explained further that the idea of the General Board would be to proceed slowly and carefully in the matter, but with the hope that ultimately the plan might include the establishment of maternity homes or cottages in some of the larger centers, and. Some form of maternity nursing service in the rural communities, including maternity centers. The stake representatives present, heartily favored a movement in this interest, and recounted the great need in the various communities for just such help as this would supply.; "The Stake Presidents were asked to think the matter over, but take no action until further notice. "The plan of inaugurating and establishing this work and of using the interest on the wheat money from and after July, 1919, has been carefully considered and approved by the First Presidency and the Presiding Bishopric, and they have authorized us to present for your consideration, the proposition that the interest on all the Relief Society wheat funds, both the funds held in the Presiding Bishop's Office and the funds held in the ward Relief Societies, be turned over to the General Board to be used for the purpose of carrying out this beneficent and worthy movement. "Tt is contemplated that this work will be carried forward in the various communities by the General Board, assisted by the local Relief Society officers, and it is hoped by the General Board that, in connection with this work, the Relief Society will be 306 7 able to cooperate with the State and Federal Government in carrying out the provisions of the recently enacted maternity bill. "The First Presidency have also authorized us to recommend for your consideration the proposition that the wheat funds of the entire Church, not already so placed, be deposited in the office of the Presiding Bishopric; the interest thereon to be delivered to the General Board for the maternity movement. "Inasmuch as the wheat fund itself is a permanent wheat trust fund to 'be guarded sacredly and held intact, under the jurisdiction of the First Presidency, and inasmuch as it is not available for local use, it would seem advisable and desirable to have the scattered wheat accounts all placed in a central fund in the Presiding Bishop's Office. The principal would, of course, remain intact, and each ward would be credited with the amount deposited and hold a receipt for the same. If at any time, in the opinion of the First Presidency, it would seem desirable to return these funds to the various wards, the receipts held by the ward presidents would promply be honored, and the transfer could readily be made. "Such a plan would be much simpler and more expedient in the end. It would insure protection to the fund and would eliminate the element of insecurity of this fund, which some communities have felt because of uncertain financial conditions. It would likewise prevent the possibility of losing sight of the fact that the fund is a trust fund and remove the danger of having it dissipated by using it for miscellaneous purposes. It would also facilitate business transactions in connection with the proposed new use of the interest. "In carrying forward the plan, the General Authorities have decided to call in all wheat receipts that have been issued by the Presiding Bishopric for wheat deposits, and in lieu thereof, issue a receipt in dollars, based on 3 cents a pound for wheat credit now held in the Bishop's Office. "Tnasmuch as the transaction with the U. S. Government, when the wheat was purchased from the Church for war purposes, was finally consummated in July, 1919, the Presiding Bishopric will compute the interest on the wheat money held in the Bishop's Office from that date at the rate of four per cent. In unison with this plan, it is requested that the interest on the wheat money held in the various wards be computed from the same time. "Tt is recommended that those wards which have wheat on hand at the present time stored in local and other granaries, dispose of this wheat at once and place the funds derived therefrom with their wheat trust fund already on hand, pre- GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 307 paratory to sending the total amount to the Presiding Bishop's Office. "Tn accordance with this plan you are therefore now requested to advise with the president of your stake, and to take steps at once to put this plan into operation. "Definite instructions regarding the details of the procedure in making the final transfer of the funds to the Presiding Bishop's Office and completing the transaction, will be sent to you in the near future. "Thanking you for your early attention to this matter, and your generous cooperation at all times, we are, "Very sincerely yours, "CLARISSA S. WILLIAMS, "JENNIE B, KNIGHT, "Louise Y. RosBison, "General Presidency, "National Woman's Relief Society. "Amy Brown LYMAN, "General Secretary, "28 Bishop's Building, "Salt Lake City, Utah." A motion was made by Inez K. Allen of the Utah stake, and seconded by Elizabeth J. Hart of Rigby stake, that the stake cfficers indorse this movement, and carry out the recommendations to the letter. The motion was carried unanimously. The Relief Society visitors were invited by Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter, to visit the clothing workshop and storehouse of the five Salt Lake City stakes where splendid work is being done in collecting, sewing and distributing clothing. The meeting was brought to a close by the congregation singing "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet" after which the benediction was pronounced by Elizabeth C. Crismon. OFFICERS' MEETING AFTERNOON SESSION The first number of the afternoon session was a solo, "My Faith in Thee," by Robert Williams. The opening prayer was offered by President Mildred Harvey of Lethbridge stake. A pleasing duet, "Rock of Ages," was rendered by two children, Lucile Brewerton and Sherman Burt. Raymond Williams then sang, "It's a long way back to mother's knee." ENSIGN STAKE DEMONSTRATES TEACHING Under the direction of Mrs. Elise B. Alder, president, the Ensign stake gave a demonstration of Relief Society teaching. The demonstration consisted of four domestic scenes depicting different home conditions. These homes were all visited by Relief Society teachers and points of ineffective and meritorious teaching were brought out. The scenes in their order were: (1) Mistaken Ideas of Teaching. (2) Discouraging Motherhood. (3) Encouraging Motherhood. (4) Ideal Teaching. The parts were well acted, and the lessons, which the demonstration aimed to teach, were clearly brought out. The conversation was well written and all of the characters were portrayed with a great deal of skill. By clever exageration, the idea was made plain and emphatic that gossiping and discussing physical ailments (especially to the sick) are not desirable elements in teaching. By two contrasting scenes and conversations, an effective picture was given of the unhappiness that can be created by Relief Society teachers who discourage motherhood and of the courage and strength that they. Can impart by encouraging motherhood. The last scene showed two skillful and tactful teachers, arousing the interest of a club woman in Relief Society and in her neglected religion. Following the demonstration, Counselor Jennie B. Knight led a discussion on Relief Society teaching. She emphasized the features of the demonstration stating that the teacher in order to be successful, must go about her work with earnestness and prayerfulness, must. Have a message to take to the families, and must be tactful and skillful in meeting women indifferent to Relief Society work. In reply to questions raised, Sister Knight advised that where non-L. D. S. Homes are to be visited, that the ward presidents select some one special to make such visits. DISCUSSION OF SOCIAL SERVICE TOPICS President Clarissa S. Williams then opened the discussion of Social Service topics. She explained the advisability of individuals contributing to some organized agency, rather than attempting to help a family by distributing relief themselves. A, Relief Agency is trained to make investigations, is in close cooperation with hospitals, employment agencies, and is aware of all existing social conditions, all of which makes the service of an agency more helpful to a family than the service of an individual. She urged the sisters to contribute to the Relief Society rather than to spend their funds on individual families. Responsibility of Relatives: Mrs. Amy W. Evans, of the GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 309 General Board, spoke of the responsibility of members of a family itself, for its old or dependent members. The first responsibility of a dependent person does not belong to the church or county but to the relatives of those in need. This has been recognized by the state and Mrs. Evans quoted the state law, which declares that parents, brothers, sisters, grand-parents, and grand children are liable for the support of a dependent person. Before giving relief, the agency interested should investigate thoroughly and see if any of the relatives listed above are able to care for the person in question. Cooperation with Bishops: President Williams urged close cooperation of the Relief Society and Bishops. The Bishops have been instructed to invite the Relief Society officers to meet with them once a month to discuss relief plans for the various families in the ward, and she hoped this is being done. Employment Agency: Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter, of the Genera! Boara, announced the opening of an employment agency in the Relief Society General Office. She asked that employers and employees, both in the city and out of town, register at this bureau and an attempt would be made to place L. D. S. Girls in suitable L. D. S. Homes and in other reputable places of employment. Importance of Investigation: President Inez Knight Allen, of Utah stake, gave an impressive talk on the importance of investigation. Women, she said, are all endowed with a certain amount of inquisitiveness which could be put to very good advantage in making thorough investigations. She said that merely administering relief without learning of the true situation is like giving paragoric to a crying baby without trying to determine its ailment. She told of one widow who lived in a wretched home and the first impulse of the visitor was to move her to a different location. A long and thorough investigation showed that this would be an unwise step as it would remove this woman from her only means of earning a livelihood?picking fruit and doing housework for friends who did not object to having the children with her at her work. After the bishop and relatives had been consulted it was decided to build a small home for her on her property. The family is now comfortable but a serious blunder could have been made if the investigation and plans had been: hasty or superficial. Assistance to Transients: General Secretary Amy Brown Lyman, pointed out a mistake often made by people giving relief and sending transients from one place to another. The only justification for sending a dependent person to another place 310 is that there is an assurance of family care or employment at the destination. This should be secured by letter or wire by the agency giving the assistance. Mrs. Lyman also explained that it was often detrimental to feed or give money to men going from deor to door. Frequently these men are refusing to work to support their families and the very act of assisting such a man is really contributing to his delinquency. Child Placing: The Relief Society has been asked, Mrs. Lyman explained, to act as an agency to place children without homes. Where children are left orphans or where, because of disrupted homes, children are left without proper parental care, it sometimes is advisable to find new homes for these children. If the ward presidents learn of families who would like to adopt children, or if they discover children that should be placed out for adoption, they should correspond with the General Secretary who is prepared to make the necessary and proper arrangements. It is considered a good plan, and it has been the policy of the Relief Society office in the past, where a child is placed out for adoption, for the child to be placed with the foster parents for a period of one year, in order to determine if the home is the proper one for the child, and if the child is suitable to the home, before the adoption is made legal. STANDARD PRICE FOR QUILTING Counselor Louise Y. Robison reported the following recommendations of the General Board with regard to quilting: That the minimum price for tying quilts be $1.25; minimum price for quilting soft outing flannel quilts, where 'the strips are merely sewed together, $2.00; minimum price for quilting piece quilts, $3.00. That for complicated designs and fancy quilts, the price be raised according to the amount of labor required in doing the work; for joining strips together for comforters or for linings, minimum price, 25 cents. After singing "God be with you till we meet again," the benediction was pronounced by Sarah M. McLelland, of the General Board. GENERAL SESSION MORNING MEETING PRESIDENT CLARISSA WILLIAMS It gives me a peculiar feeling, Sisters, to stand and face such a large audience of intelligent women? women who are GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 311 giving the best of their lives for the good of humanity, and I sincerely crave an interest in your faith and prayers. I desire the blessings of my heavenly Father to be with me that I may be an instrument and a help to you in your labors. It is just one year since the General Board was reorganized and it has been a very busy year. We have endeavored to put self entirely aside, and to work for what we consider to be the best good of this great Relief Society organization. We have endeavored to follow in the footsteps of our beloved leaders who have passed on and to carry forward the work in a manner which would be pleasing to them as well as pleasing to our heavenly Father. We have also endeavored to keep pace with the advancement which is going on continually in the world. We know that the Latter-day Saints have always stood for advancement; they have never gone backward, but have gone steadily onward, regardless of rebuffs or trials, with the glorious sun as their goal. So we desire the Relief Society to go forward, and are endeavoring to bring this about. We feel that during the past year, or the past six months, some advancement has been made. Our report shows that we have now, gone beyond the goal we had set of securing 50,000 members; we have now 52,362 enrolled members in the Relief Society. In eighty years of work, with still other women's organizations in the Church, we feel that we have done fairly well. I believe I have the reputation of setting my stakes very high. I think I shall never feel perfectly satisfied until every married woman in the Church is enrolled as a member of the Relief Society. I believe the Relief Society is the proper place for the married women in the Church, whether they are old or young.. Now, I have told this story many times that I am going to tell you now, but I love to tell it. I had the great privilege of visiting one of the stakes of Zion with President Francis M. Lyman, and in an address which he gave during the conference, he told them that he considered that they were not in the line of their duty unless they had all their married women enrolled as members of the organization. The stake president made a report of the work. She said she had heard President Lyman express himself that way before, and she wanted to report that in three or four wards in her stake every married woman in those wards were members, except one young woman who had only been married two or three months and when the sisters visited her she said: "Well, I am married, of course, but I think I am rather too young to join the Relief Society." The sisters told her of the goal they were seeking to reach, and she promised that she would investigate Relief Society work and would eventually become a 312 member. I agreed fully with President Lyman; I was delighted to hear him express himself in that way. Not only have we reached more than 50,000 members but we have increased in the number of stakes and wards. Eleven reorganizations have been made; the reports tell us in various ways that the work is moving on rapidly. Some of the work that our stakes are coing would make you open your eyes in astonishment, and we are going to give you the opportunity of hearing some of the wonderful things that are being accomplished by the Relief Society in the stakes and missions. I think we should endeavor to increase our average attendance, which is very low. It is now barely a third of the enrolled membership, but I believe that by proper missionary work and by making our meetings so interesting that each individual will feel that she cannot remain away without missing something very vital, we will be able to increase our average attendance, and IJ hope truly that will be the case. Since the first of August, the members of the General Board have visited all the stakes of the Church, excepting Juarez, and four of the missions. The members have also visited ward conferences and meetings, wherever the opportunity has been afforded. The ward work is especially interesting and illuminating, because it is right in the little room where the ward organization meets that the real work of the Relief Society is carried out. We have no special message to give to you, dear sisters, except the message that this great trust which the Prophet Joseph Smith gave to women eighty years ago, has been a great blessing, not only to the Relief Society women but to the communities in which they have lived. Through our organization the gospel has been preached, the needy have been looked after, the sick have been comforted, the downhearted have been cheered, a message of love and ofblessing has ever emanated from Relief Society workers. There should be no place in the hearts of women who have received this great heritage, for jealousy, or bickering, or faultfinding. We should hold ourselves aloof from every influence of that kind. It is very easy for us to find fault, but we should be too proud; we should feel that it is beneath us to find fault with those about us. We do not understand thoroughly the conditions which surround others and rather than find fault with them we should seek to love and help and encourage them. I think the greatest thing in the world is love. Our beloved president Emmeline B. Wells has told that to you from this rostrum over and over again?and it is true. The greatest thing in the world is love. And if we keep that always in our hearts, and give it as a message to those about us, we will be blessed and will 'be instruments in blessing those with whom we associate, GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 313 My sincere prayer, my dear sisters, for you and for us is that we may always enjoy the spirit of our heavenly Father, that we may be blessed in our labors, and that joy may ever be ours. MRS. FLORENCE M. KNIGHT President, Western States Mission Relief Societies I assure you that it is a great pleasure for me to attend this conference, and partake of the spirit which accompanies these meetings, and also to report to you the work of the Relief Society of the Western States mission. We have at the present time 17 organizations, 4 in Wyoming, 2 in Nebraska, 9 in Colorado, and 2 in New Mexico, with prospects of 2 more in Nebraska in the near future, and one at least in South Dakota. In all of these societies, with the exception of one, we have the local members serving as officers. In every organized branch there has been more or less suffering during the winter due to the lack of employment, but the women of the Relief Society have united in an effort to extend relief and constructive help. Following the great flood in Pueblo last year, when 172 blocks were ruined, and 678 houses destroyed, making thousands of people homeless, the Relief Society donated money and clothing and assisted in finding employment for those out of work. Practically every L. D. S. Family in Pueblo today is self-supporting. This branch has also assisted the Church presidency to raise mony to build an addition to the Church. This will provide a room for the Relief Society for a meeting room and work purposes." In one of our Societies the niembers heard that there were two missionaries who would have to go home on account of financial distress. They immediately arranged for an entertainment, and raised enough money to enable the elders to stay and fill their missions. In another organization the sisters wanted a new church; they held an entertainment and raised $400, and that church will soon be completed. It is not possible to mention the features of the work of each branch, but I feel that I must say a word about the work of the Society in Denver. The Relief Society women there have not only helped the poor in this branch, of which there have been many, due to financial distress and unemployment, but they have helped the branches of North Dakota, South Dakota, Western Nebraska, and Wyoming, to care for the unemployed and needy among L. D. S. Families in these districts. In all of our organizations we are following the outlines furnished by the General Board. In our societies we have women, many of them young mothers, who are not of our faith, but they 314 enjoy the meetings and speak very highly of them, mentioning especially the good spirit which prevails. The lady missionaries and elders who attend our meetings add very much to the interest and success of the work. All the Relief Societies throughout the mission celebrated the 17th of March in a fitting manner with special programs. It is my purpose to visit all the Societies as soon as I can after this conference, and to carry to them the good spirit which we have enjoyed, and the valuable instructions which have been given to us. MRS. ANNA B. IVERSON President of the Relief Societies of the Northwestern States Mission We have seventeen branches in the Northwestern States Mission, with the prospect of two more in the near future, one at Salem, and one at Eugene, Oregon. The financial depression, of course, has affected our mission as well as other parts of the world. The ship building has been stopped, the lumber and logging camps have been closed, and this has thrown thousands of men out of enployment. However, the people are striving to live their religion just the same. Some of the people have moved away to obtain employment, and therefore many of the branches have been depleted. The sisters of the Relief Society have done very well in assisting those unable to care for themselves. They have assisted in caring for little children, providing clothing for them, and have done much commendable work. I think I could do no better than read to you a portion of a letter that I received this morning from the president of the Spokane Branch. She says: "At a banquet given at the Methodist Church to all ladies' religious organizations of this city, who met for the purpose of discussing the many phases of work for women, I was invited to express my ideas concerning our work in the Relief Society. I related how the Relief Society was first organized, by whom, and for what purpose, and how it had grown from a few to many thousands of members, scattered in all parts of the earth. I also presented to the president, the containing details of the reorganization of the Relief Society in 1921. At the close of my remarks I quoted, and upon request, presented the chairman with a copy of our song 'Have I done any good?' Just a month previous to this banquet, a prominent member of the Ministerial Association of the United States gave several lectures in this church, berating in a most untruthful and GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 315 shameful manner, our Church. The courtesy shown me proves that not all people are led away by the untruthfulness of others. Later, at the Spokane Home Products Exhibition, where thousands of people were received, another sister and I were invited to act as hostesses for one day. By such opportunities which are opened to us we feel that much prejudice is being allayed and the influence of truth is being forwarded." The average attendance at the Spokane branch is 90 per cent. One drawback we have in the Northwestern States Mission is the poor meeting houses in many places. Spokane has a new church and it is astonishing the progress which has been made since they have been meeting in a good chapel, which is one of the best in the mission. We are in hopes of being able to provide better meeting houses throughout the mission as many of the Saints meet in inconvenient and undesirable places. Recently a Relief Society convention was held in Seattle. East Seattle, West Seattle, Olympia, Tacoma, Bellingham, Everett and Vancouver were represented. It was the first convention we had held, and we followed the outline as given by the General Board. The topics were discussed and the papers were indeed excellent. This experiment has proved to me that we are able to do convention work with excellent results, and we feel certain it is going to give the Relief Society work a new impetus in the Northwestern States. We expect to hold another convention in the eastern part of the mission in the near future. In Portland we are cooperating successfully with the Social Welfare Bureau. President Iverson has asked the secretary of that orgaization to refer all L. D. S. Families and individuals in distress to the mission headquarters. - COUNSELOR JENNIE B. KNIGHT I know that you are here with a desire to learn something which you can take to your homes, live in your daily lives, and help you to be better women, and I sincerely ask that the Spirit of the Lord may attend me as it has attended those who have spoken previously. I thought when our beloved President Williams was addressing you that if I could only have that sweet spirit which she always has that I would not occupy your time in vain. The reason that you, as Relief Society workers, have accomplished so much work in the past is because of the loyalty that you have in your hearts, to carry out the admonition which we find in the Doctrine and Covenants, which says: "Prepare ye the way of 316 the Lord;" make his paths straight. (Isaiah 40: 3.) We have an ideal in our lives to live up to. It is that of eternal salvation? preparing our hearts and our minds and even this whole world, for the return of our beloved Savior, Jesus Christ. I would like to say that we have every reason, as a people, to rejoice in our opportunities. Not long ago it was my privilege to listen to a lecture by an eminent doctor and traveler, and he pictured to that gathering the distress he witnessed in the countries of Europe. He said that the people were not only distressed, because of the lack of physical necessities, but that peace and good will had been taken from the earth. People do not trust one another; they have no faith in one another; their hearts are discouraged, and their outlook is dark. While walking through the University of Berlin a man shook his head and remarked to this eminent doctor: "We have proved ourselves to be no better than the heathen. Those who have means are living a life of abandonment and indifference, and those without means are suffering for want of necessities." When he said that there is no peace I thought to myself, little does he realize that he gives evidence that Joseph Smith was and is a prophet of God. For do we not find in the Doctrine and Covenants that the hour is nigh at hand when peace shall be taken from the earth? I feel sad to know of these conditions, but I feel glad to know that he was bearing this testimony. Of course, we are sad and sorrowful to know that these people are suffering, but even more sad that they are refusing the gospel of Jesus Christ, which would bring joy and happiness if they would only listen. I think it is our mission to scatter sunshine and cheer and joy and to promote faith and trust. Our beloved Prophet Joseph as he was being led to Carthage jail, said, "I go as a lamb to the slaughter, but I am as calm as a summer morning; I have a conscience void of offense toward God." What could be more beautiful that to be as calm as a summer morning when sorrow comes to us, and when we see distress on every hand. This little incident may explain how we can get this confidence. A woman said that when she was a little child she attended a Sunday School class where the teacher talked regarding patriarchal blessings. The child went to her grandfather's home on her way from Sunday School and asked for a patriarchal blessing. He smiled because the little girl was his own granddaughter and said, "I will give you a blessing right now." One of the sentences which always puzzled her, but afterwards came to her as a great comfort, was that which said: "In thy day, men's hearts shall fail them, but thy heart shall fail thee not, trusting in the Lord." This is an anchor we have, that in these days GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 317 when men's hearts fail them, that ours shall fail us not if we trust in the Lord. I am reminded of a little poem, which impressed me very much: Take what God gives, O heart of mine, And build your house of happiness. Perchance some have been given more; But many have been given less. The treasure lying at your feet, Whose value you but faintly guess, Another bui'der, looking on, Would barter heaven to possess. Have you found work that you can do? Is there a heart that loves you best? Is there a spot somewhere called home Where, spent and worn, your soul may rest? A friendly tree? A book? A song? A dog that loves your hands' caress? A store of health to meet life's needs? Oh, build your house of happiness! Trust not tomorrow's dawn to bring The dreamed of joy for which you wait; You have enough of pleasant things To house your soul in goodly state; Tomorrow, Time's relentless stream May bear what now you have away; Take what God gives, O heart, and build Your house of happiness today! There are women in this audience who have come in sleighs over snow thirty feet deep, and many who have come through storms and sleet and snow to attend this conference. Where there is such loyalty to duty, surely there will be joy and satisfaction and compensation. MRS. EVELYN LYMAN President Union Stake Relief Society In our stake we have divided the responsibility of the officers, both in the stake and in the wards. In our stake officers' meeting we have been studying the Syllabus on social service work, and we are trying to apply the work. In our union meetings about a year ago we had an attendance of 12 or 14, while now we have from 50 to 60. We visit our wards once every three months. Our teachers are doing splendid work. They are discussing in the homes the topics that are outlined by the General Board. We hold a ward conference in each association once a year, and we have noticed that our Relief Society meetings and also our 318 Sacrament meetings, are much better attended, as a result. We are taking nearly 100 per cent of the Magazine in our stake. We have sent to the General Board for 10 subscriptions to be placed in non-members' homes, who are investigating "Mormonism." Last year we gave a Magazine party for the purpose of increasing our Magazine subscriptions. In following up our social service work we held a clinic where 43 children were operated upon. We arranged this in the months of July and August and had all these children in splendid health to begin their school work in September. By conducting this clinic we saved the people about $80. In LeGrande, on the North Side, meetings were held in the homes of the members, and they felt as if they needed a Relief Society hall. A bazaar was held and $600 was raised to assist with its erection. Due to our. Location, it' is almost impossible for us to do temple work, so. We try to send to the temple each year some money for this purpose. Last year we raised $258. The stake board has collected cast-off clothing, remodeled it, and taken it into the wards and into union meeting, to show what useful things can be made out of discarded clothes. This has helped people in moderate circumstantes to dress their children better. We have placed in our city library the "Book of Mormon," "Doctrine and Covenants," the "Pearl of Great Price," and one yearly subscription to the Magazine. For our annual day this year, we cooperated with the Seventies in giving an entertainment for the missionary cause, and we cleared and turned over to the Seventies $200 for the missionary work. We try to emphasize some special activity every quarter. For the next three months, April, May, and June, we have requested that all Relief Society workers beautify their homes and yards, and also the yards around our churches. MRS. VEROKA G. NASH President Franklin Stake Relief Society I think in our stake the conditions at present are better than they have ever been before. I feel that our sisters are awakening to the great opportunities and privileges given to them in our Relief Society. We now have more of our young mothers attending our meetings than we have ever had before. I believe they have reached the stage where they can see that the Relief Society GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 319 is not intended for their older sisters only, and that it is not alone for the bearing of testimony and making of quilts, but that it is a great educational opportunity. Our wards have been doing a great 'deal of "shut-in" work. They have taken their meetings and sometimes refreshments to the homes of those unable to meet with them?the aged, the poor, and those unable to get out, especially during the winter months. The spirit of love and unity that has been in our board and has attended us in our work is remarkable. Our teachers are humble and striving to do the best they can and are trying to improve. We have a teachers' department in our union meeting and there we have a supervisor who presents the topics. We do not feel that the teachers must go with this message and with nothing else, but that they should be imbued with the Spirit of God and they should use their best judgment to give in each home that which is needed. Our wards during the last winter have labored very diligently in trying to care for those in need and out of employment. In order to stimulate Magazine subscriptions we offered as a prize to the ward receiving the highest number of subscripions, a bound volume of the current Magazine. As an inducement to our young mothers to attend meetings, we have asked each ward to establish a kindergarten or nursery and to ask the Bee Hive girls to care for the children during the meeting. We have had eleven Relief Society excursions to the temple, one from the stake and one from each ward. Something like 1,000 days have been spent in this work. We are introducing into our stake a reading course, prescribing a certain number of Church books, a certain amount of educational reading, and selected fiction. A report of this reading will be called for by the teachers. Our stake sent 1,700 pounds of clothing to the Armenians. We have organized in our county an association known as the Anti-Tuberculosis Association. Last year the Fianklin and Oneida Stake Relief Societies worked with this association, selling Christmas seals, and through our efforts succeeded in going over the top with our work and were therefore allowed to keep one-fourth of the funds received for the promotion of our own health work, with which we were able to obtain two nurses for community work. We were also able to institute in our schools the crusade work in the interest of the health of the children. By cooperating with the parent-teachers association and our county school superintendent, we have arranged in our city a free 320 dental clinic where our children may go and have their teeth examined and treated. I feel that until we are able to handle our charity work more properly and intelligently, to eliminate some of the undesirable conditions and influences which produce suffering and poverty, and to look after' the needs of the people in the prime of life so as to save them and their families from future distress and suffering, our work will not be the success we so much desire. MRS, MAMIE CLARK President Maricopa Stake Relief Society I appreciate the privilege of attending this conference. Maricopa stake is so far away that we are not always able to send a representative. Maricopa Stake Relief Society is doing better work, more efficient work than ever before. We are following very carefully the lessons that are outlined and the sisters appreciate and enjoy them more than ever before. We are holding our conferences in the wards on Sunday afternoons in connection with the Sacrament meetings. We feel that this is a good opportunity to put the Relief Society work before the public, and we also feel that the brethren need correct information of the Relief Society work. We have ten wards in our stake and these wards are all organized and in good running order. We visit the wards once a month with the exception of one small ward up in the mountains, that is over a hundred miles away. We recently put on a contest with the nearby wards for average attendance and new membership and the losing ward was required to entertain; and they certainly did entertain royally and with the best of feelings. Our Papago ward has not been doing the work so well this year as before. Owing to the financial conditions that have come to our country, the Indian women were compelled to pick cotton early in the fall and they felt that they could not give a whole day to Relief Society work. So they have been holding one meeting a month. On Sunday. This spring there is a great deal of sickness among these people. And they are still holding but one meeting a month. We feel that we are doing a splendid work along the line of family welfare. Our teachers have been relieved of gathering charity funds for our Relief Society, and instead their time is taken up with delivering worth-while instructions into the homes, from the organization, and messages from the stake president. They are prepared on a subject which thev discuss in the homes. We have our charity dav on the 15th of October. This day is set apart for the purpose of collecting funds and every home in our GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 321 ) stake is visited by a member of the Relief Society, sometimes accompanied by a member of the priesthood. On this day every ward holds a bazaar and in connection with this we have what we call a rummage sale. We gather up all the cast-off clothing, and this the sisters buy to make over for the children, and in this way save a great deal, as the clothes are sold for a trifle. This is a great help to people who cannot afford to buy new matetial. This also helps our Indian association very much. We feel that our success along this line is due to the hearty cooperation received from the stake presidency and bishops throughout the stake. In connection with the Mesa Welfare League last fall we served soup to over 200 school children every day. This spring we are delivering bread and quantities of milk at the noon hour for these children. Our stake is doing many things, but I know you want to hear from others, and | feel and hope and pray that, as time goes on, and we see the needs of humanity, that our hearts will swell, and that we will be able to meet these needs in the right manner. MRS, AMY BROWN LYMAN 7 I have read an article recently, written by Dr. Nicholas Murray Butler, the president of Columbia University, in which he sets forth the idea that the people of the world today are given over to adolatry, and he defines this idolatry as the worship of clothes, money, notoriety, and the worshiping of themselves. He thinks that it is time to expound in thunderous tones the message of Paul on Mars Hill when he said to the people there: "Whom therefore ye ignorantly worship, him declare I unto unto you." Dr. Butler thinks there will be no cure for the world's ills until faith in God is restored and made supreme. I have also read something recently which has impressed me very much, in a book by Mr. Babson, the great financier, in which he emphasizes the importance of a religious and spiritual life. He says it is the greatest protection from evil and the greatest force for good in existence today. Recently he was visiting in South America, in Argentina, and while there was a guest of the president of the Republic. After dinner one day, they were sitting on a sun porch, talking, and the president of Argentina said to him: "I have been wondering how it is that South America is so far behind North America. We were settled first, our country is larger, we have greater natural resources: we have mines and great rivers, and water power that rivals Niagara; how is it that North America has been so much ahead of South America all these years?" Mr. Babson, being a guest, reversed this 322 question and asked it of the president. The president answered: "Tn thinking the matter over, I have decided this: South America was settled by Spaniards who came in search for gold; North America was settled by the Pilgrim Fathers who came in search of God." I think that it is probably not necessary to call to the attention of Relief Society women the importance of the religious life, because if there is a group of women anywhere who strive to live the religious life and to live the spiritual life, it is the group made up of Relief Society women. I think, however, that it would be a good thing for us to take stock occasionally to see how nearly our lives conform to the teachings of the Savior and of the Prophet Joseph Smith. We are sometimes inclined to think that if we go to Church and testify vigorously of the blessings that we receive, that that is all that is necessary, but there are a great many things that are fundamental things to a spiritual life and we cannot reach the highest development unless we live up to the standards of the gospel set for us by the Savior. The Savior says: "I have given you the law and commandments of my Father, that you shall believe in me, and that you shall repent of your sins, and come unto me with a broken heart and a contrite spirit * * * Except ye shall keep my commandments which I have commanded you at Ye have heard that is was said by them of old time: Thou shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment; but I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment." Are we ever unrighteously angry at a brother? The Savior says: "Blessed are the merciful; for they shall obtain mercy." Are we all merciful? "And behold it is written also, that thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thy enemy; but behold I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them who despitefully use you and persecute you." In another place he says, "Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and thieves break through and steal, but lay up for yourself treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal." In other words. Christ would have us worship not the worldly things, but worship the living God. The Savior says, "Verily, verily, I say unto you, judge not that ye be not judged, for with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again. And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine this time, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 323 own eye? Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the mote out of thine eye; and, behold, a beam is in thine own eye? Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye; and then shalt thou see clearly to cast the mote out of thy brother's eye." How many of us live up to this doctrine? It is a very hard thing for us not to judge other people. I think our own dear president, Sister Williams, sets us an excellent example. She is slow to judge and willing to forgive the faults and failings of others. In our own Church our leaders have set up certain standards for us, two or three which I am going to name. We are asked to keep the Sabbath day holy. How many of us do this? Would your standards permit of going to a picture show or allowing your children to go to a picture show on the Sabbath day? Are we all living up to the Word of Wisdom? Are we making excuses that because we have this or that ailment, we must break the Word of Wisdom? What about tithing? Do we believe in it, first of all, and are we supporting our husbands and training our children to be tithe payers? What are our standards with regard to the fast day observance? Are we living up to this law? Another thing I want to mention is prayer. What are our standards for prayer? I think most of us pray secretly, but many of us neglect our family prayers. While visiting a mission recently, I met a young man who said: "We did not have family prayers at home, and since I have come out into the mission field I have had companions from home where family prayers were observed, and they know how to pray. IJ would give anything if my parents had stood strongly for this one thing. When I go home I think I will take it up with my parents, and see if we can establish regular family prayers." If we expect to have a good spiritual life we must keep the commandments of God, for he has so informed us. May the Lord bless us and help us to live up to the standards of the gospel. GENERAL SESSION AFTERNOON MEETING COUNSELOR LOUISE Y. ROBISON There is quite an art in thinking good things. Emerson says: "We emit evil or good with every breath," and we can only prepare to emit good with every breath by proper thinking. The Bible tells us, "As he (a man) thinketh in his heart, so is 324 he." (Prov. 23:6, 7.) Our lives, what we are today, have resulted from what we have thought in the past years, and our future lives will be the result of our thoughts of today. If we were building a material home, we would be most careful to have the material placed in that home the very best that we could afford. We would have all of the timbers straight and free from knots, and we would see that the furnishings were free from blemishes. How much more important it is when we are building our spiritual lives that the thoughts that we entertain are of the highest and most ennobling character. The women who have accomplished things in the Relief Society must be women who have their minds always set on a very high goal. Those who work for the highest in life cannot afford to entertain any thoughts but those that are the most elevating. You know it is attributed to women that they make a good deal of trivial things, that they complain of physical ills. And hold on to any little affliction of the body very tenaciously. It has been said by one writer that women's conversation and thought could be defined by three D's, disease, dress, and domestic affairs. Now, I am sure that the women who have made these excellent reports today must be women whose thoughts are of a very high order. We sometimes feel that it is difficult for us to control our thoughts, that sometimes hasty speech will be ours, or sometimes that we say things without meaning them, and we often justify ourselves by saying, "Well, they know we didn't mean that." This is no excuse, of course, and it does not tend to build up our character. If we would get in the habit of committing to memory some of the splendid scriptural sayings that we read all too lightly; if we would remember and repeat frequently such poems as "School thy feelings," by President Penrose, it would set our minds to thinking along the lines that would develop us and help us to be splendid leaders in Zion, When Sister Iverson was making her report this morning and reading the letter from the president who had the opportunity of speaking of our work before the clubs of a large city, the thought occurred to me, we do not know, any of us, when the opportunity is coming to speak a good word for our religion. You know, the gospel is so high in its ideals that we should not represent it unless we have high ideals. I felt today, in listening to the excellent subjects that have been mentioned in the little catechism that Sister Lyman gave us, that we will have higher ideals and we will look to the smaller things, in order that we may accomplish the big things in our glorious gospel. We all feel and know that this is the Church and kingdom of GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 325 God. We have all had experiences and testimonies so that we know beyond a doubt that this is so. In looking over the atidience I see our excellent, aged sisters, who have accomplished many things. If we could only emulate their lives, so that in our old age we might have that same sweet peace and calm which has come to them through right living and right thinking, we certainly would not have lived in vain. May this be our lot, May we live above the ordinary things of life, because we have more than the ordinary things given unto us. MRS. AUGUSTA W. GRANT This morning I heard our president say that she would like to have the Relief Society include every married woman in the Church. I was included even in my 'teens, before I was a married woman. In the little town where I lived I joined the Relief Society, and I have held my membership ever since. While my work has been chiefly with the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, I have always felt a great interest in the work of the Relief Society, and I am always willing to do all I can in my ward to assist. At Ocean Park I was asked to speak at the 17th of March Anniversary Celebration. There were a number of things related there about the first organization. As we all know, it was the first organization among women, and it was effected by Joseph Smith, the Prophet. Even in this first meeting the women were granted their rights. It was proposed that the society be. Called the Benevolent Society, but the women did not exactly like this name. The Prophet gave them the chance to consider it, and they proposed the name of Relief Society, and finally the women won their point. In all things the men of the Church have been liberal and just to the women, and have granted them rights and privileges for which the women of the world have had to fight. In the matter of suffrage we did not have the struggle that the women of England did, who resorted to militant methods. Even in America the women had a war of words for many years before they gained their rights. L. D. S. Women had suffrage given to them early, long before the women of the nation. I believe if women would go about it in the right way they could secure almost anything. One example of women's influence is that of Harriet Beecher Stowe, whose book dealing with slavery assisted, very materially, in the settlement of that question, and in the ultimate enactment of the Sixteenth amendment. The passage of the Susan B. Anthony suffrage amendment, after many years of struggle, a great monument to the work of 326 | united womanhood. The passage of the Highteenth Amendment on prohibition was also assisted materially by the persistent efforts of the women throughout the country. We have not finished that fight yet and must go on with it. In Utah there is a fight against the cigarette, and I think if the women are all united on that, at least the women of our own Church. We will accomplish our desires. The fight against tobacco is not entirely in our own Church, but a great many people outside, scientists, physicians, and others, are just as much opposed to the use of tobacco as we are. The other day I read a little article concerning the former president of Stanford University, David Starr Jordan. In giving the requirements for a college president he included among others, that the president must not smoke. I am sorry to say that in this day many of the women are using tobacco. We look upon women as refined and dainty but when they indulge in things like this, they not only lower their own standards, but they lose the respect and admiration of the public. Recently I had occasion to go through one of the finest hotels on the coast, and I saw the ladies of leisure there on Sunday afternoon sitting around in those beautiful corriders reading, writing, sipping tea, and smoking, and I thought to myself: "I wonder if there is any man in the cultured intellectual classes who would really like to see his wife or daughter smoke!" The theme for this conference, it seems to me, has been greatly along spiritual lines, the encouragement to live the lives of Latter-day Saints. The great mjnds of the nation seem to realize the need of spirituality, especially since the war. The other day in the paper I saw a little notice of President Harding speaking to a Bible class, and he emphasized the fact that religion and spirituality are greatly needed at this time. I think we do not read the Bible and Book of Mormon enough. I think the lessons we have had in the different associations on the Bible have been a very great help. Some people do not understand how to read the Bible and the Book of Mormon, and to find the beauties in them. President Young said: "Search the scriptures." We must not only read them, but study them, and search out the good things in them. I heard the late Brother Riter, the last time he spoke. His whole theme was on the Book of Mormon. He said in the last ten or fifteen years he had never failed each year to read the Book of Mormon through. He said that in the Book of Mormon there is not one thought or one word that would offend the purest mind. Our religion is the greatest thing in the world to us, of course, and when I think of the women pioneers, of the hand cart women and others, who helped to establish it, I find many GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 327 things that are an encouragement and a help to me. I think these women should be honored and remembered. Their numbers are growing fewer all the time, and I think that everyone of us, wherever we meet them, should make it a point to respect and honor them, and to gain any information they may have. Such information should be preserved. I heard of a young woman from this city who had been approached by one of the moving picture concerns asking if she would write some of the interesting things from the lives of our people. I was pleased with this idea and I would be glad to see the talent of any of our young people used to bring these things before the people of the world. I read, not many weeks ago, in one of our magazines, an article telling of the forty French women who were taken prisoners by the Germans. The Germans came to a little town and said that it was necessary for something which happened years ago in Alsace-Lorraine to be avenged, and that they should take forty women from the town. They selected the finest and most noted and influential women. They gathered them together, put them in a cattle car, locked them in and started them on their journey. Finally they arrived at the prison camp and were all put together in a bare, dirty room with no conveniences. There was a pump for water and straw 'or beds. They made themselves and their surroundings as clean and wholesome as they could. There was one among them who was a leader. She gathered them all around her and said: "We must take care of ourselves and look after our health and amusement, so that when we are released from here we will not be physical and mental wrecks and be burdens to our families and the community." She found what special gifts they had; one was a teacher, another a musician, one a hospital graduate, and some were specialists in physical culture and recreation. When they had in quired what every one could do, one gentle little women spoke up and said: "You have considered our health, our amusement, our learning, everything but religion. I wonder if we could not have that. Let us pray." While perhaps these women had never been taught to pray, every night when the silent hour of prayer came, they all joined in earnest supplication to their God. I wish to speak about the achievements of the Relief Society. In comparing the first organization which was effected with eighteen women, with the membership of over 52,000 today, we see that great progress has been made. The first money that was contributed to the Relief Society was $5 given by the Prophet Joseph Smith. Others gave $2, and $1, and 50c and one woman gave 12c. I have always been glad that she did not have any more to give, because it shows that even a small amount is acceptable. You have done a great work in saving wheat, and in 328 stimulating temple work. I think the Relief Society is deserving of praise for their activity and interest in temple work. Twenty-five or thirty years ago I resolved that I would endeavor to go to the temple one day a week and I have always tried to go, but sometimes it seems almost impossible. I have noticed, with pleasure, how the numbers of temple workers have constantly increased. Because of the increase in numbers it became necessary to have two sessions a day, and then three, and then four. Besides having more sessions, the number in each company was doubled to care for the many workers. New temples are being built in different parts of the world. California is now desirous of erecting a temple, and I think in time they will have one. The work is growing, and we desire to grow spiritually and to live the lives of Latter-day Saints. We should strive to follow every avenue of work open to us that will lead to this end. DR. GEORGE H. BRIMHALL What is the sweetest word in our religion? To me, the sweetest word in our religion is blessing. How can we get blessings? Only in one way, and that is by living the law upon whch that blessing is predicated. No matter what we get of material or social advantage temporarily, if it comes to us in any other way than through the law of righteousness, it will not prove to be a blessing. I read the other evening the sentiment: "Righteousness cannot be conferred, it must be acquired." And blessings cannot be transferred, they must be earned. If we should have riches, unless they are acquired under the law of righteousness, they would not be a blessing. I remember the case of a man who found $4000 in the forest in Arizona as he followed his sheep. He gathered the coins up and carried them to his camp, and then he tried to find out who lost them. The money was lost by a robber who had stolen it from a cattle syndicate. I asked him, after he told me that he returned the money, and they gave him $200, why he didn't keep it and do good with it. He answered: "I did not dare to keep it, because J felt this thing within me saying, 'Do as you would wish to be done by.' I cannot believe that it would have proved anything less than the opposite to a blessing." And he was right. He is happy, prosperous, and at peace with himself today. Now, what are some of the greatest blessings? I will try to talk to you a little about the three greatest blessings in religious life as I see them. The first is prayer, the privilege of going to my Father when I am happy and exulting; the privilege of going to him when I am bowed down. There is only one way for me to escape humil- GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 329 iation before my Father in my days of distress, and that is by being humble in the days of my prosperity. The scriptures tell us that where there is no vision the people perish. We transpose it. When there is vision, the people prosper. What kind of vision causes the people to prosper? The vision of the leader, but that alone cannot bring prosperity. That vision must be passed along down to the eyes of the people. It will bring no prosperity to me, except as I see the vision, no more than a good word of help coming to a ship would be of any avail to me, if I took no heed, if I were deaf to it, and insisted on going overboard. This organization, as an organization, has demonstrated the value of having vision. O, if we brethren had been as firm and as persistent, and I think, perhaps, as clear in our vision of what the Prophet Brigham Young and his successors saw when they said, "Store up wheat" we would have had financial safety today. The second great blessing in the Church is service?the privilege of serving as an individual, and the privilege of serving as a group. You serve as individuals, and you serve as one of the greatest organizations on the earth. You fulfil the second great commandment and you give evidence of the first great command being obeyed: "Seek ye first the kingdom of God * * * and all other things shall be added."' You do it with the spirit "Father, what woulds't thou have me do?" I stood in a hotel the other night talking with a prominent lawyer of this state, and he said to me: "I was visited the other day by an eminent business man who has been at the head of one of the greatest business concerns of New York, and he told me this: 'Our employers are all instructed that when a man applies for a permanent position, where money is to be handled, to ask him first if he belongs to a church. If he says, yes, then our employer is instructed to look up that man's standing in the church to find out if he is earnest, if he is sincere, if he lives up to his religion. If we find his standing is good, we put him in class A for appointment. If it is medium. We put him in class 'B, if it is poor, we put him down in C. If he says he does not belong to a church, then our employer is instructed to treat him courteously, make some excuse, tell him if he is needed he will be called.' " There we have, "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness:" seek God, and then other things come. Teach that to your boys. I heard a man this morning give a most eloquent discourse on sociology?a man who has written books on the subject. This man said to me, "I am going to New York, and I am going to study the financial problems there. I have just come from San 330 Francisco, and I asked there among the big business men what credentials I should take to New York, and what they would cal! A first-class credential. They said, 'You get a recommend from the president of the 'Mormon' Church, and you can go anywhere in business circles.' " I then thought of the time when the Prophet Joseph Smith was accosted by a ruffian and was asked: "Your name Smith?" "Ves," "Joseph Smith?" Ves,"? "Here is a bill with your name on it. I don't suppose it is good for anything, but you will redeem it." The story goes that the Prophet put his hand in his pocket and he had just enough money. He said, "Give me the bill. I will redeem any paper that has my name on it." But what hath God wrought? The Prophet of God, looked ' down upon as a renegade financially, threatened with abuse and harm, if he did not settle a $5 note, and now it comes to pass that the business men of the greatest nation on the earth can say, "Tf you want credentials as to business integrity, get them from the president of the 'Mormon' Church." I call that service to the world. We must share the vision with the Prophet, and must also share the service with the Prophet. Our lives must be along the line of his counsel and his advice, and if we share the vision and service, we share the victory. The third greatest blessing in this Church is love. Love for what? The apex of it all is the love of the service that you and I are rendering. Love to pray, love to serve, and love to love the world. I will share the vision. I will share the service, and then I shall share the love. And when I pray, I pray for the spirit of prayer, I pray for service, pray for love, and what do I become? I become a being of gratitude, I become a being of _sympathy reaching out and helping, and I become a being of the utmost happiness through the love of God, his children, and the work I have to do with them. You as individuals, you as an organization, it seems to me, stand in the center of interest in this behalf. Prayer, the service that you are rendering in the home, reaching out, teaching the children to serve, and then love. A boy will say when he is in difficulty: "Do not let my mother know, it would kill her." See where you are on the basis of love. You sit there on the very throne of affection. God bless you in this work. GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 331 PROF, LEVI EDGAR YOUNG My sisters of the Relief Society, your name and your fame has long ago gone beyond the portals of this state. I remember long ago a visit that Susa Young Gates made to a very noted woman, Madame Chaponniere-Chaix, in Geneva, Switzerland. After this visit was over I had the opportunity of hearing Madame Chaponniere-Chaix at a mass meeting in Geneva, Switzerland, speak in her inimitable French on the subject of the work of women in the Republic of Switzerland, and in her address, she reported the visit that had been made by Sister Gates. She then launched out with an explanation of the great work of the "Mormon" women in the relief of the sorrowful, in the relief of those who are in need, and she said that your organization is an ensample of service that very few people in the world have approached either today or in the past. I think this is only one occasion of very very many where your work has been carried, by your sisters, to parts abroad, for others have carried the results of your work. To me the compelling thing about your work and service is the fact that you do not herald it far and wide, but you give yourselves to the welfare of women, children, and men. You help the sick, you go where there is need, you bless the homes where death has come and the only compensation. Is the knowledge that you have served God because you have served one of God's children Now you have had a marvelous history. In some of the wards I have had the privilege of investigating the Relief Society simply for a social study to see how you have done your work, and the work has been marvelous. Some one told Sir Philip Gibbs, not long ago, on his visit to this city, of the work of the Relief Society women, of their desire to serve humanity in alleviating pain and suffering, and he was greatly impressed. I find that in 1852 a company of Methodists and Presbyterians on their way to California to the gold diggings, something like 400 men and women and children in the party, camped on the outskirts of Salt Lake City. I find also a record wherein the Relief Society women of Salt Lake City went down to that pioneer camp to the west of the city, and relieved the suffering of a number of the little children who had severe colds due to the cold in the mountains. The women became angels of mercy to those good Methodists and Presbyterians; angels of mercy for they did not ask what they beljeved. They only asked what they could do to serve. If nothing more than that had ever been done, it would indicate to this world of ours that the "Mormon" wom- 332 en are blessed with great souls, and that they find their lives in helping God's children on the pathway of life. Now, you sisters sometimes wonder if your compensation is going to come. It comes every day. It comes every time you go into a house where children suffer or where death has visited. You find your joy and compensation every day. That is life, that is happiness, for Christ, the Master has told us that the secret of happiness is human service?the love that we bear for one another. Let me tell you this story of the little French woman. One time, during the war, Irvin Cobb was coming through the woods from the French camp to General Pershing's camp. He came to a little shop, as he walked through the woods, and he saw a woman working at the bellows. In the cinders a baby was playing. Irvin Cobb said, then, through his interpreter, "What are you doing?" The woman turned and left her work for a moment?there was a horseshoe on the anvil, and said, "When the war began, this was our little plot of land. My two boys fell at Verdune, and six months ago my husband died in the service, and the only thing left for me was this little anvil, the bellows, and the baby here playing in the cinders. But I determined to do something for France, because I love my people. So I went up to the Commissary Department and asked what I could do, and they said, 'Hammer horseshoes, for we must have them.' So every day I hammer from twenty-five to thirty horseshoes into shape and everyday when the Angelus rings, I put these horseshoes in the sack, take the baby in one arm, the horseshoes in the other, and walk eight miles into Paris, put down the horseshoes at the Commissary, and they give me a little food, and I go back and sleep in the cinders, but at daylight, I am up again, hammering horseshoes into shape." When the war was over, M. Clemenceau called this little woman up and pinned on her breast the great Cross of the Legion of Honor, and said to her, "Woman, it is your work that has won the war." General Foch was standing there and said, "It is woman's work that wins all wars," and there is great truth in that. Now, that little woman's compensation came back to her then, in a way, and it is coming back to her now and to all the women who served, because there was no thought of tomorrow, but only to serve today and to do her duty to God as she understood her duty. That, I say, is life, and therein do you find the happiness of life. So the compensation will come to you, although sometimes it seems a long, long way off. But because your work is so practical and yet so ideal, your future will be great. I want to say to you mothers, there is rising a generation of boys and girls. There is a generation of silk stockings and GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 333 high heeled shoes and low necks. There is a generation of girls ranging from 14 to 18 that are beautiful, that are wonderful, that are your children. It is true that this world is full of allurements of which I do not speak very often. And here is the point I want to leave: mothers, I believe in the rising generation. I believe in the boys and girls that come into my office daily. What is needed, I think, today, is not so much correction of these children as faith in them. Let them see that you do have faith in them, and it will do much to solve the problem. This old world has never been an extremely righteous world in some respects, but the old world has been a wonderfully beautiful world, and there is far more beauty in it than wrong, and I honestly believe there is far more religion in every human heart than there is the opposite of religion. There must be, and that religion of the boy and the girl is inspired with your radiated hope and faith in them to a very great extent. I leave you this thought: Have faith in the boy and the girl of today. I believe we get what we radiate. If I give you hate, I receive hate, and if I radiate love to you, that love will come back from you to me, perhaps, ten fold. It takes the mother to radiate that hope completely. You must always radiate hope, and you must always radiate faith in your children. Radiate faith in the youth of Zion, in the youth of America, in the youth of the world, and I want to tell you that the faith in the beautiful youth will come back, and the world will radiate peace and happiness, and great joy will come to us. I say unto you, he that will find God in his life today serves his fellow men, and the light of God abounds in his heart, and he goes forth as a servant of the Most High. Blessing and receiving blessings as the reward of the just. MRS. ANNIE WELLS CANNON One of our great writers has said that greatness is to walk among the common things of life. I will ask you this afternoon, for the few moments that I stand here, to walk with me among some of these common things, and see if we can learn therefrom some lesson. It makes no difference what our individual opinions may be about a law. If there are on the statutes of our town, our city, our state or our nation, ordinances or laws, they should be observed and respected. They are made not for any individual use, but for the benefit of the whole community. We often hear people ridiculing what they consider the minor laws, but I think that we, as Relief Society women, should see that these minor laws are more strictly heeded and obeyed. I may take you into unpleasant paths in order to illustrate 334 the points { would make, and to emphasize the importance of. Obeying these laws, for it is often those who disobey these laws who end their days in the hospitals, or the prisons, or meet with death. The Juvenile Court officers tell me that the delinquency of at least 90 per cent of all the children who come before them, can be traced to the breaking of the curfew law. I hope in every town where Latter-day Saints dwell there is a curfew law, and that we mothers try to see that law is observed. It happened not long ago at one of our branch libraries here in the city that the librarian noticed a little girl with three or four companions who came at 7 o'clock and stayed until the close of the library at 9, and she also noticed that these children did not go home when the library closed. When questioned, the little girl said, "Mama thinks the library is a lovely place for us to go while she goes to the show. We couldn't get in if we went home, because she has the key." 'And so, not long after, the little girl accepted an invitation to go for an automobile ride, and soon after she was a ward of the Juvenile Court, and then of the Industrial School. It is in the night time, mothers, it is in the dark, when the tempter, the evil one, is abroad. Perhaps there is some little boy around the bonfire in the vacant lot using his influence to tempt other little boys and girls in evil ways. Sister Grant spoke of the cigarette evil. Probably it is there that little boys first learn to use the deadly cigarette. I remember once in our Relief Society conference, the late Judge McMaster told us he considered the cigarette the most vicious and deadly thing that comes into a boy's life; that he would not believe a cigarette smoker, and that he was con: vinced that smoking produces liars, thieves, and Jaw breakers. How are we going to help in this law? In talking with the prosecuting attorney he told me that there never was a question on which there has been such a division of opinion among the public, that there are men and women who are so divided on the efficacy of the law and the good of it that it is almost impossible to secure a conviction. Let us create such a sentiment in our communities that this law will be observed and enforced. In the same way we might speak of the prohibition law. One summer, during the vacation time, smallpox appeared in the family of a woman who had the disease as a girl, and she had been left a pitiable sight. It was noticed in the neighborhood, that for some reason, the children stayed home, but no doctor was called and no report was made to the quarantine officers. The husband began working around the neighbornood and soon the disease had broken out in the whole neighborhood. Think of the expense, think of the sorrow, that was the GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 335 fruit of the neglect of this wilful, criminal woman. F know also of three little graves due to the spread of diphtheria by a little boy whose mother allowed him to return to school after he had been home two or three days with a sore throat, and fever. He exposed the whole school and three little boys lie in the cemetery because of that mother's carelessness. Any man or woman should know that a temperature, a rash, or sore throat, means contagion, and should be properly taken care of at once and reported. Why should anyone disobey such a simple law as the law of quarantine? Let us protect our neighbors by obeying strictly, at all times, the law of quarantine. The Chief of Police, Mr. Joseph Burbidge, says that more than half the accidents that occur in autos, and on street cars and on bicycles, are caused through the carelessness and indifference of the public with regard to traffic regulations. While I was talking with him, a little boy was brought into his office, mangled. He had tried to cross Second South Street while the red light was on and had been run into by a street car. He was a messenger boy. When questioned by Mr. Burbidge, he said he knew the light was on, but he was in a hurry and thought he could get across. Many of us are in a hurry, and think we can get across, and then there is some terrible and disastrous result, as in the case of this little fellow. A beautiful, bright, lovely girl lovingly kissed her mother goodbye the other morning and boarded a car for the State University, and as she stepped from the car a harum-skarum young fellow with a crowd of people came driving along, and there was carried home to the mother the dead body of that young woman. Two homes plunged into despair because of the disobedience of minor laws. Are they not of the utmost importance? By setting a better example, or by trying to observe these laws ourselves, we can help to better the conditions in the communities in which we live. STAKE PRESIDENTS' MEETING The meeting for the Relief Society Stake Presidents, or personal representatives, on Saturday, 8th, was held in the parlors at General Headquarters, and consisted principally of a discussion of problems, particularly relating to the work of stake presidents, and the administration of this work in the stakes. President Williams and the other executive officers gave instructions on various topics and answered questions submitted by the delegates.; The opening prayer was offered by Miss Lillian Cameron of the General Board, and the benediction pronounced by Mrs. Julia 336 A. Child, of the General Board. Following is a summary of the meeting: Organization Greater than Individual: When reorganizations and changes occur, in the Relief Society, the sisters should realize that it is for the best good of the organization and should not take presonal offense. The organization is greater than the individual and no disrespect is meant to anyone if the proper authority sees fit to reorganize the stake or the ward, and make changes in the personnel of the officers. We are under the direction of the Priesthood and have no authority to do anything except as the Priesthood directs. Reorganizations: When a reorganization occurs, it is advisable that all workers be released. The new president should have the privilege of choosing her workers and assistants, as we all have ideas and know what we would like to do, and it simplifies matters for a new president to have the privilege of choosing her own workers. This should, of course, all be done under the direction and supervision of the stake presidency. We advise that you do not build up your stake organization too rapidly. It is easier to add to a structure than to take from it. Some presidents do not select board members until acquainted with the material at hand and with the work to be done. Some stakes report that bishops sometimes appoint ward Relief Society presidents and other officers without giving the stake Relief Society president an opportunity for consultation in the matter. This is to be regretted, for while the president may or may not know those people in the ward best suited for the work, they should and do know in a general way the qualifications necessary for ward officers. Other Relief Society presidents report that they are consulted freely when changes are to be made in the wards. It is hoped that this practice will grow and that stake presidents and bishops will consult with the Relief Society presidents freely with regard to filling offices, in the organization. Sometimes the judgment of the bishop will be as good as or better than the judgment of the Relief Society president, who perhaps does not know the prospective worker as well. But, whoever is chosen and set apart for the work in the stake or wards, the Relief Society stake president should lay aside any feeling of prejudice, if such exists, because it may be that the woman chosen will develop into the right one for the position, and perhaps the bishop's judgment will be found to be better than hers might have been. Let us do our part by sustaining the bishop in tke selection of the officers, whether or not we have a word in it. President Williams stated that occasionally stake presidents GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY 337 ask the General Board for suggestions when they are contemplating reorganizations. It would be very difficut for the Board to make suggestions, especially for the outlying stakes, from the fact that we do not know just what the material is, or the capabilities of the individuals. So we thank them for the courtesy shown in asking us, and give a few of the qualifications that we think stake Relief Society workers should possess. President Williams outlined briefly the qualifications of a Relief Society stake president. First of all, she should te a true Latter-day Saint, living her religion to the best of her ability. That is the first great qualification. Ano'her qualification is vision, or the ability to see the future needs of the organization, and another is tact, the ability to get along with those around us. Another qualification is leadership, the power to bring in and hold all the elements necessary for a successful organization.