SMOKING AND NON-SMOKING WOMEN. Will H. Brown. Many men who complain that women are encroaching upon the lines of employment formerly occupied exclusively by men have only themselves to blame. A. I. Root, the famous Ohio bee man, writing of the labor situation, accounts for the fact that so many employers prefer women and girls for certain kinds of work, with this statement: "The girls and women do not smoke cigarettes, nor tobacco in any form. They are more tidy in their habits; they take better care of their surroundings; they do not fill the room with smoke." The reason that working women as a class are more tidy in their habits is because they do not use tobacco. The average man who does not smoke is more thoughtful of his appearance than the one who smokes or chews. The pig in the puddle sees no reason for cleaning up either itself or its surroundings, But if the movement among so-called society women to popularize smoking is not checked., it will probably not be many years until there will be no choice between men and women on the score of neatness. The New York Evening Sun quotes an official of the British Mercantile Insurance Company as saying that many women are refused life insurance policies because of - having "smoker's heart;" that the proportion of women smokers thus affected is much greater than among men smokers. '"Tobacco is a drug,' he says, "and women use it like they would a drug." Question: Why should men who want to be at their best use tobacco at all, even though it does not injure them as much as it does women? That it is a poison drug, no one denies. Don't get discouraged when your expensive pearl buttons lose their luster. Just a little labor will brighten them up as good -as new. Soak the buttons in olive oil or a good quality of machine oil. When you take them out rub them hard with powdered pumice, talcum powder, or a good nail polish. The nail polish should always be used to finish them up with, and they will shine like well-manicured nails. Cut jet buttons should be scrubbed with a tooth brush and good soapsuds and steel and other buttons are often improved by this method. It is too much work for the ' busy housewife on the farm to remove pearl buttons from skirts or other garments when washed, and they are bound to lose their luster eventually, but a little manicuring will renew them completely. acai A Book Every Mother Should Own How the foundation for a child's health and normal growth should be laid in the home, is graphically explained in "NUTRITION AND GROWTH IN CHILDREN", by W. R. P. Emerson, pioneer and authority on the subject of foods for children. You will appreciate having this book in your home library. May mean the success of your boy or girl. $2.50. Deseret Book Company 44 E. So. Temple, Salt Lake City Price To the Agents and Friends of the Magazine who are Taking Subscriptions It was unanimously decided at the October Conference by the officers and members present rather than raise the price of the magazine, we would ask the agents and friends for the present to secure subscriptions without the customary 10 per cent discount. We call your attention to the fact that more than one-half of the subscriptions received so far have had the percentage deducted, which is not in accordance with the general understanding of the Magazine management and officers present at the conference,. Will you kindly give this matter your attention and give these facts as wide publicity as possible in order that the subscriptions which we receive hereafter, will be accompanied with the full amount of the price of the magazine, which is $1.00. Sincerely, . To the SUBSCRIBERS Commencing with the November issue your expiration will appear on the outside cover of the magazine, with your address. Watch for your Expiration THE FLOWER SHOP ELIZABETH HUTH, Prop. Telephone 73 MLAATOAUCDADSTUAGEDUDSDEAUOUUUSUREOSUATEERSRIPOUITEREREDS, ECCLES BLDG., OGDEN AT McINTYRE'S moEST By TEST" Ice Cream: Candy Cake-Luncheons PHONE WAS: 3223 - P. O. BOX 17/3: - SALT LAKE CITY Service Press Better Printers of Better Printing Phone Was. 4044 A Page for Every Woman Containing latest patterns?fascinating health and beauty suggestions?recipes for cooking special dishes?and numerous articles that have special appeal to women readers. In fact there is a department for every member of the family furnishing entertainment and information regarding the live topics of the day. All this with progressiveness?wholesomeness and dependability characterizes Che Deseret News Utah's Leading Evening Newspaper When Buying Mention 228 West Broadway Salt Lake City Individual Sacrament Sets Now in Stock Best in the Market RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS. REFERENCES FURNISHED Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Inter-mountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands. Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver. SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGMENT. Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921. "I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. "Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness." Bureau of Information Mention Ask Your Dealer for Z. C. M. I. Boys' School SHOES When Shopping Mention Temple Block Salt Lake City ?for Breakfast In high class hotels you will find Pierce's Hominy on the breakfast menu a tempting breakfast dish served with cream and sugar. Buy a can today. | HOMINY 7 a li fj CONT onTS lL8. OF Vf UE R CES National Bank The officers are always glad to meet customers and discuss business plans with them. Officers Hener J. Grant, President. AntHony W. Ivins, Vice-President. Cuartes W. Nistey, Vice-President. Cuas. S. Burton, Vice-President. Henry T. McEwan, V.-Pres. & Cashier. Arvin C. Stronc, Assistant Cashier. Joun W. James, Asst. Cashier.