Elder Joseph F. Merrill (August 24, 1868 - February 3, 1952) - Elder Ezra Taft Benson Of the Council of the Twelve 66 FE, has fulfilled every call made upon him, never excusing, never shirking, never complaining. He has been a minute man in the service of the Lord..." so said the First Presidency, as they, with numerous others, paid high tribute to Elder Joseph F. Merrill, nationally known churchman, educator, and_scientist. Coming from him in the Quorum of Twelve, and sharing an outer office in the Church Office brought a deep appreciation and love for this warm-hearted, generous servant of the Lord. Through inheritance, experience, training, and practice, he developed those rugged qualities that make for sterling character. Born and reared on a farm, he was driving cows long distances to pasture at five years of age and later walked miles to school. When eleven he was water boy on a railroad construction gang. At thirteen he was doing a man's job driving teams. The habit of long days of toil acquired in his youth carried throughout his life as student, Ph. D., university dean, commissioner of education, mission president, and apostle of the Lord. The first child of a pioneer mother and a distinguished father, twenty years older, he ever acknowledged the blessings of coming from "a good Latter-day Saint home." Here the valley. Of his boyhood, associating with. Building have ELDER JOSEPH F. MERRILL he partook of a spirit of unity, love, and filial affection that formed a pattern for his own home with seven children. As a boy in his home he learned well the lessons of industry, frugality, honesty, service, generosity, and faith in God and his purposes. A great advocate of secret and family prayer, he pointed with pride to his boyhood home where sometimes his father was too busy to eat his breakfast, but always had time for family devotion. His insatiable desire for knowledge was in evidence when a child as he read aloud by candlelight from Page 217 218 The Book of Mormon while his mother performed the numerous household duties. In his love for truth he never temporized. 'This love for learning took him to four