She Second Spring Elsie Sim Hansen Geaheayp slips over the hills into Southern California almost before Rebriaey has left the calendar, bringing with her the fragrant aroma of millions of orange blossoms dancing on the wings of each gentle breeze. The beds of ranunculus, stocks, and begonias make one think that a rainbow must have come to rest on the warm earth. The flowering shrubs and trees, stealing their delicate hues from the first rosy pink of an early dawn, spread in a panorama of color in every direction. __ Yes, nature had really prepared a banquet of beauty from which we were permitted to feast, as if she knew this would be the last spring our family would spend in California. One Hapa when it seemed our lady spring could no longer be the center of attraction, my husband came home and announced that his company was transferring him to another state. We arrived in our new home about the middle of April, just in time to be smothered in billowy clouds of apricot blossoms. Neat brick homes were set in frames of scarlet tulips, golden daffodils, and giant pansies, with tiny white ribbon bows of lily-of-the-valley tied in every corner. Nature, with her magic wand, was turning the newly planted vegetable gardens into patches of living green. Later in the spring, while I was picking some luscious red strawberries, the thought came to me—how fortunate Steve and I were, not only because we had seen nature in all her majesty awakening the sleeping things of the earth from their winter nap twice in one year, but how, as parents, we were really living a second spring every year through the lives of our children. Obedience, faith in God, and charity are the flowers we are planting in the garden of their characters, so that when the springtime of their lives has passed, they may stand like sturdy oaks in the garden of their tomorrows. Y * Y N Salisman Vesta N. Lukei Awake, my love, and climb the hill While all the earth lies cool and still. Come, catch the fragrance of the breeze ~ Through dew-fresh groves of citrus trees. Oh, hear the moming meadow lark And watch the mountain shadows, dark And purple, silent, slide away Before the spreading gold of day. These perfect moments shared will start A day-long singing in my heart And be a talisman until We climb again adventure's hill. Page 254 Spring Showing Ouida J. Pedersen His mother apprehensively, His father with marked pride, Present the fourth-year model Of a snub-nosed son; bird-eyed With eagerness, brown hands Chapped with weather, Rumpled shirt and breeches That won't quite stay together, Shabby cap precarious On wind-tousled head. Unlimited capacity For storing jam and bread.