[Vol31 | December 1944 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes From the Field Pohlman]
Williams and Amelia Dickamore, counselors; and Helen B. Perry, sec-
"The Pleasant View Ward Relief Society entertained at a delightful mothers - and - daughters evening, Tuesday, June 12, 1944. Each mother came accompanied by her lovely daughters. The sisters who were less fortunate borrowed a daughter, making it possible for every member and every daughter within our ward to enjoy this party with us.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Relief Society Anniversary Dinner, March 17, 1944, Washington Terrace Branch, Weber Stake. About 200 people were served. This new Relief Society, which had been organized just six months on that date, is officered by Maud Buttars, President; Edna Fuhriman and Alley Taylor, counselors; Alois Glenn, Secretary-treasurer. "A program, ~ featuring _ instrumental and vocal numbers and readings, followed by game mixers, and Prizes, made for an evening where mothers and daughters mingled together as one happy group. "The hall was decorated with pink and white peonies. An attractive "Small vases of pink rosebuds and tiny white: shasta daisies, symbolizing the beauty and purity of our Mormon girls, formed the center. Piece for each of the twenty-four tables, which completely filled our hall. "Sisters Myrtle Barker, Emma Unander and Susanah Johns of the stake board were our special guests. "Each year our mothers-and daughters Party is looked forward to with great anticipation. It is a joy to entertain our daughters, for the daughters of today will be the Relief Society members of tomorrow," is party was attended by 100 mothers and daughters from the 86 families in the ward. Big Horn Stake (Wyoming) HULDA M. LYNN, president of Big Horn Stake Relief Society, wrote as follows of the summer musicale presented August 29, 1043, which was enthusiastically received by a packed house: "The participants and all stake board members were in formal dress, the stage was banked with gladioli and roses, and a large American flag, made entirely of electric light bulbs, hung high in the background. "Some 75
Singing Mothers, from various wards in the stake, participated. The combined ward choruses were directed by Carma Johnson and accompanied by Gwen Kocher. Haus and Veoma Stahle. Singing Mothers' groups from several of the wards also presented separate numbers. Following the Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag, a silent tribute was paid to the boys in service, and their mothers and wives. "This was a very lovely and worthwhile project, and we hope to make it an annual affair."  
Relief Society Singing Mothers of Midvale First Ward, East Jordan Stake Organized in 1936, this chorus now has 25 members, and from its beginning has been directed by Connie T. Matthews, chorister, assisted by Vera Brown, organist.
This chorus meets weekly for practice, socially every two months, and furnishes musical numbers twice monthly for sacrament meetings. Pocatello Stake (Idaho) "THE following report was submitted by Roxie Thompson, counselor in the Pocatello Fourth Ward Relief Society "On April 9, 1944, the very beautiful and impressive cantata 'Resurrection Morning' by B. Cecil Gates, was presented by the Pocatello Fourth Ward Relief Society chorus.
Front row: Margaret Dalton, Relief Society Singing Mothers, Fourth Ward. Pocatello Stake.
From left to right, front soloist; Arvilla Croshaw, organist; Emma Puckett, secretary; Minnie Warren, counselor; Elizabeth Dunn, president; Roxie Thompson, counselor; Lucille Denkers, chorister; and Amy Hansen, chorus member.
Chorus members in the second row are: Doris Jensen, Louise Ashton, Lois Hall, Zina Harper, Isabell Curl, Nellie Judy, Stella Waters, Esther Johnson.
Third row: Beatrice Call, Myrtle Taggart, Wilmetta Rufenacht, Mary Packer, Zula Richardson, Vida Howell, Lula Rupp.
This presentation was sponsored by our Relief Society officers, Elizabeth Dunn, Minnie Warren, Roxie Thompson, and Emma Puckett. It was directed by Lucille Denkers, chorister of the group, assisted by Arvilla Croshaw, organist. "Two violinists, Arnold Lintleman and David Thomas, contributed a great deal by their lovely playing, and the readers, Lydia Egbert and Mildren Sorensen, also added charm and grace to the occasion. "The beautiful lighting effects were carried out under the supervision of Sidney Heath and William Denkers. "A large audience, 381 in all, attended the cantata."
