[Vol31 | December 1944 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: A Few of Our Gifted Horne]

A Few of Our Gifted Utah Women Artists Alice Merrill Horne Former Member of Relief Society General Board ~Alice Morrey Bailey — The sculptor suffers a tremendous handicap for a gift to help sculp is of small account without a knowledge of anatomy. The expense of the sculptor’s material is far greater than that of the painter. It is comforting to know down the ages a few men possessing what we call genius (like
William Shakespeare for example) were able to achieve all for which greatness is intended, in spite of environment, in spite of everything. Alice Morrey Bailey, Utah sculptor, seized opportunity by the forelock, and forced it to do her bidding. Alice persistently worked her way into the anatomy class of the University of Utah Medical School, even though she determined to make art, and not medicine, her life profession, Those who Opposed gave praise when they recognized the use she put to the anatomy which characterized her beautiful sculptures. Mahonri Young, the international sculptor, wont to discourage students of sculpture because he knows its tremendous handicaps, when he saw Alice Bailey’s work, said, “I would like you for a student, come to New York. "The Challenge" a study from her own dear son and a cherished piece of sculpture, was given to the Ella Quayle Van Cott Vernal Central School Art Collection by the writer. It reveals wonderful child-quality, The Douglas School Parent-Teachers made a generous gift “Of Such is the Kingdom” another lovely piece of modeling by Alice Morrey Bailey, to the very choice Douglas-Howell Robenbaum collection.
THE ETERNAL UNIT
Viola Hale Curtis has painted “Winter in Salt Lake Valley” which 
was the writer's gift to Snow College, Ella Quayle Van Cott Memorial Art Collection. UTAH WOMEN ARTISTS 679 —Viola H. Curtis OBERHANSLEY BARN IN SPANISH FORK CANYON A lover of design would be repaid by a study of that Curtis painting. The row of hillside trees reveals a dozen or more tiny pictures between trunks of trees and boughs, as well. There are charming spots of lights and darks. There are cool colors against warm tones. In the Olympus Louis Heinzman Collection which hangs in the Snow College Library, is "Oberhansley Barn in Spanish Fork Canyon" by Mrs. Curtis. Autumn foliage casts its protecting shade over the pioneer barn. Though the barn is the main theme, every tree and bush and stone is placed to add its mite to the whole ensemble—a distinguished water color to which B. F. Larson has given praise. Mrs. Curtis has also painted the "Mormon Trail to Nauvoo." Elsa Erickson Saxop's parents were high-bred religionaries—Scandinavian converts to Mormonism. They met and married in Utah, and made their home in the mountains. Two daughters and two sons blessed the union. Before Elsa, the eldest, was fourteen, her dear mother passed on. In three more years her father died. She took up her mother's, then her father's duties, and great were her responsibilities. 680
Sure, faithful, serene, Elsa kept the children together, the four went through school successfully, and she brought them into safe waters. They rise up and call her blessed. Elsa ''found" herself in the art class at West High with J. T. Harwood as instructor. Later, Mary Teasdel was also an inspiration to the young girl. When both teachers were abroad, Elsa
came to the writer with sketches for advice. Elsa Erickson became the wife of a Swiss, Eugene Saxod, whose interest in mountain climbing persisted in Utah. Week-ends found the Saxod's searching for sketching grounds among our mountain lakes and canyon streams. Elsa's lovely paintings are often seen at Zion's
Co-operative Mercantile Institution with the Utah Art Colony exhibitions, where a buyer is waiting for each canvas. Although a great artist, her first interest is  in her charming home. An art collection is named for her in the Blaine School,
Salt Lake City. At the moment, she is painting portraits of her gifted
Daughter (One of Elsa’s pictures is seen on the cover of this issue of The Relief Society Magazine) Lucy Taylor Andersen — The November-December Zion’s Co-operative Mercantile Institution Tea Room Show of paintings contains thirty water colors by Lucy Andersen, who is among the young artists. The two mediums, oils and water colors, are quite differently handled. Pictures, in oil, will permit repainting several times. Not so water colors, which should be painted
with a splash in a flash, as it were. However, each splash should be made with skill and with a view to securing a special effect. This watercolor skill requires quick, intelligent decision, coupled with a degree of bravery almost to the point of rashness — the paper should be wet but once with paint. It is sure to make mud to repaint a water color. Examine Lucy's thirty landscapes to mark the frankness, directness, boldness of this young artist’s brush work, which as the earmarks of style. Style which is inborn— never acquired by an artist. For once everything is favorable to an artist’s career. Her interested husband, Waldo Andersen, wishing to further her career, has purchased oils for his
wife to try a new medium for her pictures; her son is a devoted admirer.
The mother and son go sketching together. Besides, she is the daughter of the artist, Rachel Grant Taylor, and her grandfather, President Grant, has promoted several generations of artists. Irene Fletcher — It is an honor to be associated with so gifted an artist as Irene Fletcher, the wife of an artist, Calvin Fletcher, head of the Utah State Agricultural College Art Department. Herself a loving
mother to her own children, she has been equally tender of the children
whose mother died long before she married Professor Fletcher. The
writer imagines the Irene Fletcher who would be backed by her home
State, and supported with means from sales of her own paintings. Then much of the work that has so crowded her young days could be dispensed with. Were Irene
Fletcher supported as her gifts deserve, she might become even greater than a national figure— a world painter. Mrs. Fletcher's works are seen to advantage in the Logan High School Ella Quayle Van Cott collection. Minerva Kolhep Teichert —
muralist of biblical subjects, pioneer life, wild life, and western themes, was born in Ogden, Utah. Her father, the son of a wealthy German Jew, ran away from home and was drawn West by a passion for Buffalo Bills Wild West, and
visited Utah where he remained. Minerva's mother pushed a handcart
to the valley. The Kolheps moved from Ogden to a ranch near Old Fort Hall by the Indian Reservation. Minerva's gift to paint developed rapidly under her father's
direction. Her young life became saturated with such things as Indians,
pioneers, wild life, and the Bible, and it followed that the Western art student took fast strides at the Chicago Art Institute. Irene Fletcher PORTRAIT OF A YOUNG GIRL There, she paid her way drawing cadavers for the medical students all the
while perfecting her knowledge of anatomy which is also all-important to the muralist and figure painter. Minerva Kolhep won two free scholarships at the Art Students League of New York for her draftsmanship, awarded by Robert Henri.
The young girl came home to a dying father. She married a rancher, Richard Teichert, and it was her lot to take part in the varied and fascinating
activities of a large Wyoming ranch. Minerva, a brilliant conversationalist
and eloquent speaker, converted her husband, Richard Teichert, who now serves in the bishopric in her hometown. They are parents of an intellectual daughter
and four sons who, as types of cowboy philosophers, ride the range and take courses at the Brigham Young University.  DECEMBER 1944 A BOWL OF "CHRYSANTHEMUMS” Florence G Smith These stalwart youths
observe, strictly the Word of Wisdom. Their interests in art, music,
and cattle raising, sports, and religion are apparent in their conduct of
life. South High School in Salt Lake City owns a fine collection of murals by Minerva K. Teichert which hang in the library. Perhaps no other high school in the country has a finer original collection of western life. There are ''Captain
Bonneville and the Trappers," Indian women's basketry and pottery making, and wild life subjects. Minerva and Laurie, the daughter, have recently returned from a painting trip to Mexico. Mrs. Teichert's new murals will be seen at the Zion's Co-operative Mercantile Institution exhibitions. (One of her paintings
is used as the frontpiece of this month's Magazine.) Florence Grant Smith — gifted daughter of President Heber J. Grant, is a water colorist of charm.
She has a strong personality evinced in her direct and sincere method of
painting, and has good selection of subject. Florence creates a home
life of charm, and her leadership in Relief Society work will be remembered.
Florence's marriage to Willard Richards Smith, a man of lofty integrity and fine taste, has been an inspiration and a source of strength to both. The two Grant artist daughters and granddaughter, are students 683 UTAH WOMEN ARTISTS | 683
[Image: Landscape watercolor painting] —Verla Birrell | THE LAGOON
of the eminent water-colorist, Joseph A. F. Everett. VERLA BIRRELL, art instructor at the Brigham Young University, is often dubbed "globe trotter." Every summer this ambitious artist travels and paints. Verla has visited Europe, Africa, and South America, the East, and West, for subjects. She is not only intellectually endowed, not only possessed of a lofty attitude of mind and heart, but she goes forth with a certain openness to inspirations which come with new contacts, new themes, new environments, which she makes her own in her pictures. Her water colors are strong, and virile. Her criticisms are well directed and illuminating to her art students.