[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | June | Issue: 1 | Title: In Memoriam | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

IN MEMORIAM.
ANNA SEARS WELLS.
"Think not alone of what the Lord has taken,
Thou, whom His love hath of some joy bereft,
But in the moments thou art most forsaken,
Think what His love hath left.”
	It is difficult to write consolingly of one
taken from the home where husband and
children are left mourning, and, as it were,
desolate, seemingly bereft of the light and
beauty of the home life. Yet submission
to the divine will is the only condition in
which we can find peace. “The Lord gave
and the Lord hath taken away, blessed be
the name of the Lord.” To try and real-
ize this in its true sense is the highest at-
titude man or woman can reach in the deep-
est affliction that can come. To be
passive and invoke the Spirit of the Lord,
the Comforter, is to attain a state of tran-
quility that will bring “the peace that
passeth understanding,” to the human soul
in the hour of deepest sorrow. We in our
human weakness cannot know how the
Lord works out His will with men and
women here in this earthly probation. We
can only trust in Him “who doeth all
things well.”
	The Palmist says, “Wait on the Lord; be
of good courage, and He shall strengthen
thine heart; wait, I say, on the Lord.”
"Leaning on Him make with reverent meekness
His own thy will,
And with strength from Him shall thy weakness
Life’s task fulfill.”
	Whatever the Father demands of us, He
will give us the strength and the courage
to bear, if we trust wholly in Him, and lis-
ten to the still small voice within us and
commune with the Lord in prayer; and
though the way seems dark, light will
come, the light of His countenance through
faith in His loving and tender care.
"She is not dead but sleepeth.”

[Column 2]
	A wife and mother has gone from the
sight of those who loved her dearer than
life itself, but the blessed hope of meeting
her again is strong in the hearts of all
whose human love was precious, and how
much greater will it become in reaching up
to the celestial heights to which she has at-
tained. Only a little while and a reunion
will take place where there is no more part-
ing or sorrow forevermore. And trusting
in this hope of a glorious resurrection
hereafter, they will take up the life work
and go forward, with sublime faith in the
eternal covenants that unite husband and
wife, children and parents with ties that
can never be broken, that will endure for-
ever.
BIOGRAPHICAL.
	Anna Sears Wells, wife of Joseph S.
Wells, who departed this life on the morn-
ing of June 1, 1903, after a brief but severe
illness, was born in Caldicott, England,
December 22, 1863, and was the daughter
of the late John Sears and his wife, Sarah
Wagstaff Sears While Anna was a babe,
in the year 1864, Brother and Sister Sears
left their home in England and gathered to
Zion, coming here in September of that
year. Anna grew to womanhood in the
Spirit of the Gospel, always attentive to re-
ligious duties and devoted to her home and
parents.
	As a child she was industrious and fond
of household occupations; she made several
quilts when quite young, quilting and put-
ting them together in a variety of patterns.
Some of these given to members of the fam-
ily are still kept as heirlooms.
	She was married to Joseph S. Wells in
the Logan Temple. March 14, 1888, Presi-
dent Daniel H. Wells, father of the bride-
groom, performing the ceremony which
united them for time and all eternity.
	Sister Anna Wells was a devoted wife
and home-maker. Her home was her
heaven and a haven of rest and peace to her
husband and little ones. She has left be-
hind five beautiful children to the care and
protection of a husband she loved with an
undying affection.
	Alice, the eldest, is now in her fourteenth
year, and gives fair promise of every
womanly grace and attribute to gladden
the home life of her father and the younger
children. Herman Joseph, the eldest son,
is a thoughtful boy eleven years of age.
Byron Sears, nine years old, Richard Harris
is seven, and baby Geneva is four years old.
	One can scarcely imagine a young mother
full of maternal love, with these sacred ties
binding her to an earthly home, with a de-
voted and loving husband, actually desiring
to be liberated from earth; and yet it is true
of this young woman. She had seen the
world beyond in vision during her moments
of agonizing pain; she had seen the glory
of the infinite and she told her husband
solemnly she must go, and requested him
to dedicate her to the Lord. It must have
taken almost superhuman courage to com-
ply with such a request, yet it was done as
she had urged, and soon after the sad part-
ing came, and her beautiful spirit took its
flight “to the morning-lit land.”
	Sister Anna Wells was literally buried in
flowers, and she has entered now the holy
city, and those, who are left behind toil on
through storms and darkness until
“He brings them home to rest,
With the victors crowned and blest.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
