[Vol57 | March 1970 | Page 216 | Fiction | Common, Ordinary Grandmother | Virginia Bell]
that wasn't genealogy. Courthouse' records revealed nothing. State archives hadn't kept records until 1880, how could Elena find her! Three fruitless trips to Virginia had been disheartening. Who would remember a little woman with bright eyes, and a constant smile? Who was alive to remember? A few words passed on from one generation to the next were all that Elena had. Catherine Elizabeth Nicholson, 185_? Evergreen was small, green, and now drenched in the downpour, but sparkling from the brazen rays of a bold sun peeking through the gray, shifting clouds. Flowers, large-blossomed and drooping, were bright against the houses. Background greenery and an occasional red brick house made the small town picturesque. Elena signaled for a right turn and pulled the little car to a stop. The rain had ceased and though it was wet, a happy feeling seemed to sweep over Elena. So she hadn't traced down Catherine Elizabeth yet, she could still get out and enjoy the Virginia countryside. She might even go to the city cemetery. Sometimes exciting revelations were written on the old stones. She would ask where the cemetery was located at the first public place. Elena's steps were brisk. She was small and trim, dressed comfortably and_ stylishly. She watched with satisfaction between dime store trinkets and hardware tools for another sight of the graying head and rosecolored sweater. That's when she saw the willowware. She came to a delighted stop, wheeled on a small foot, and went in. Antiques! What fun! Willowware to Elena was like bedtime stories to children.

In fact she had always believed that the bright blue and white pattern Common, Ordinary Grandmother did tell a story of a beautiful princess and a thwarted love, even of a flying bird that held her sweet spirit. "May I help you?" asked a tall, brisk saleswoman in a crisp cotton dress, not a bit like the drooping out-of-doors. Without meaning to, Elena studied her. Sharp black eyes like animated currants studied her in return. After a brief pause, Elena smiled quickly and asked courteously, "May I browse?" and then added with sharp interest, "what century willowware?"' "Eighteenth. Would you like to look closer?" In no time the two of them were in warm conversation over crystal, willowware, and seventeenth century china. "Were you especially looking for glassware?" Elena laughed a little ruefully, catching her lower lip between her teeth, "No. Really, ''m looking for my _ great-great-grandmother!" "Does she live here?' the lady asked absently while she ran an inspecting finger over a silken lampshade. Then, glancing at Elena's amused face, she commented in embarrassment, "Oh, of course not, she would not be alive, would she?" With a smile, Elena turned back to the antiques, and moved slowly through the crowded aisle. "Oh, what a lovely frame!" She held up a walnut framed picture and stared with admiration at its intricate design. "What a lot of talent and work went into that!" The frame held a family group picture with the family posed in front of a cabin—an old woman 

217 March 1970

 in a rocker in front of the group, a dog, and a riot of flowers at the side. She had seen dozens of such old photos, but the frame interested her. The tall, slim clerk, in her crisp cotton dress, waited expectantly. She probably didn't get many customers, Elena decided. There surely wasn't a detour off the main road into Evergreen every day. "I'll take it!" she said firmly. The frame was wrapped in brown paper and tied with gratitude Elena thought to herself as she placed the package into the seat beside her. Now for the cemetery! Promptly a frown made a furrow between her dark brows. She had forgotten to ask where it was! How forgetful of her! Ruefully she retraced her footsteps; almost as ruefully the tiny bell on the door of the antique shop sounded her return. "Back again!" Elena's smile met the clerk's own who looked up from her dusting to say in surprise, "May I help you?" "I'm sure you can!" Elena hesitated. "I feel rather foolish. I meant to ask you in the first place, but," she waved a hand, "these lovely old things helped me to forget. Can you tell me how to find the city cemetery?" The directions were given while the clerk dusted a row of flowered shaving mugs, each trimmed with a gold band or scalloped edge. "Still looking for grandmother?" the clerk's blackcurrant eyes softened and her voice was gentle. "Yes. Well at least a trace of her.'"' Elena's blue eyes darkened with thought, but she thanked her cheerfully, and with 218 the clerk's wish for good luck following her, she left the shop to the tinkle of the tiny bell. This time the matching figure in the store window did not turn to see a graying coiffure or rosetinted sweater. It was easy to find the cemetery. Bright flowers nestled close to native stone, and round, green shrubs nodded against gray marble. From the roadside to the knoll, the cemetery sloped gently away. It was easy, too, to tell the old part of the cemetery from the new. The old cemetery, with its tilting crosses and weathered wooden foot markers was flush with the wrought iron gates while the new cemetery lay symmetrically to the north on the sloping hill. Elena lifted the rusting iron gate to release its catch and was soon walking between the grassy mounds, stepping gingerly, almost reverently. She noted with tenderness the roses, the doves, the crosses, and the sweet words of everlasting devotion that were carved on rugged stone to show that someone cared. "Rogers, Sylvester, Johnson," Elena murmured the names softly as now and then she bent down to see the _ inscriptions more clearly. "Simpson, Wells," Elena made a mental note to tell Sister Stevens. Who knows? This might be the missing Wells that Sister Stevens needed to complete her first pedigree chart. The light green grass was drooping with the recent rain and she noted with chagrin dark stains on her white pumps. Oh well, she took a few mincing steps, wriggled her damp _ toes uncomfortably and then giggled softly—she would havesomething to take back to Ohio, if only a pair of soggy white pumps! But the giggle was only a fleeting thing in the midst of her meditation. "Shaw, Thompson, Baby Thompson—" tears brightened Elena's eyes. The tiny stone had been carved with flying cupids and delicate lilies, "Our Beloved Baby." Someone had truly cared. So engrossed was she that she was nearly past the stark white cross with green moss shading its inscribed surface when she saw the first four letters that followed the word, MOTHER, C-A-T-H. Quickly Elena knelt, snatched a file from her purse and with trembling excitement, began to scrape Common, Ordinary Grandmother the moss from the deeply etched letters. CATHERINE E-L-I-ZA-B-E-T-H no wonder she had felt so exhilarated! The search was over! What a wondrous thing had happened! A rainy day, a detour to a little town, an obscure country cemetery in a green, green valley, and here it was! Small prayers of thankfulness mingled with excited breaths as even more swiftly Elena's excited fingers scraped the green moss from the corroded lettering. The full name was uncovered, but to Elena the words didn't make sense. For a moment she could only stare, disappointment a dull, heavy thing settling in her chest. "Catherine Elizabeth Mathewson." She was hardly aware of the wet grass soaking through her skirt to her nylon covered knees, nor was she aware of the singular beauty of the white stone that she had cleared of moss. Finally, with quivering hands resting on the stone she pushed herself to her feet. Absently she pushed the glasses back up on her nose. Well, it was not right to lose her sense of humor over it. She had found one Catherine Elizabeth. With a toss of her head, she smiled almost shyly as she spoke aloud, "How many more of these will I find, Mother Mathewson, before I find Grandmother Nicholson?" Somehow the little cemetery had lost its enchantment. Now she knew without doubt that she wasn't going to find her greatgreat-grandmother here. Anyway hadn't Aunt Ila said that Grandmother Nicholson had_ passed away in the mountains some- 

219 March 1970

 where? Elena looked around her. How could she have forgotten that? This was scarcely mountainous country, not these gentle hills! How sad to go back to Ohio again without finding anything. She had spent three days this time. She had been all over Central Virginia and had uncovered nothing at all. She remembered with a short laugh how the old mayor of one small town had said, "How do you know she's a Virginian anyway?' and before she could answer, he had flushed crimson with foreknowledge of what he knew she would say, then he had narrowed his twinkling eyes, assumed a sly expression and had leaned close to her to say, "If she cooked with cinnamon she's a_ No'thener, but if she cooked with nutmeg, she's a Southern lady!" and then he had laughed till his old stomach had shook, and his eyes, lost in wrinkles, had been flooded with tears. Elena supposed it had been a good joke, but the difference between a Virginian cook and a New England chef didn't seem to be a fact that one could record on genealogy sheets. She decided as she left the peaceful cemetery that the biggest joke was that she had come to the wrong area. She was going to have to go, that's all there was to it. She was a small, sad figure passing through a rusty wrought iron gate whose clank she didn't hear for the deep sigh that escaped her. Bright sunshine had dissipated the clouds and even dried the puddles when Elena left the little town. "It was expensive!" she agreed to herself, but in a way, 220 she felt as though the trip was already over and the heaviness of disappointment gave way to an unexplainable acceptance. "Oh, well, Great-great-grandmother Catherine, next year I'll give it another whirl!" Such a special person as dear, spirited Catherine could not just exist without a trace. Every year for the past three, she had flown into Virginia during the spring vacation and every year she had failed. The little car pressed the black highway under its wheels and whipped into Ohio in record time. There was time enough for Elena to get a good night's rest before going back to school. As she bathed, she meditated upon her present state of mind. In other years she had been despondent over her failure, why didn't she feel that way now? All she had done that was different was to take a detour into a country town, visit a cemetery in that same town, buy an unnecessary picture frame, and come home. That was it! Elena sat bolt upright in the tub, splashing warm, lazy bubbles over the white smooth edges. In her house coat now, with wet tendrils of hair clinging to her cheekbones stirred to a lovely rose by excitement, she fumbled with trembling fingers at the strings that held the brown paper about her picture frame. The old walnut frame slipped from the paper into Elena's disappointed view. Why it was ugly! What had she seen in it? And the people? They were just a common ordinary family that no one had cared enough about even to preserve their pictures. Still she couldn't just throw away $15, so she removed the picture to better look at the antiquated frame. It had probably hung on an unpeeled cabin wall with bits of drying bark falling on it now and then when an over-eager housewife cleaned the dusty log walls. The picture was out. Elena hurried to the wastebasket to throw away the yellow and cracked photo. "Oh! Writing on the back!"' she spoke aloud to herself. They had cared enough to make note of who the old lady was and probably even the dog's name would be at the foot of the list. Or maybe even at the head? She was still laughing softly at her own observation when the words leaped out at her bright with power as a revelation from another world. Catherine Elizabeth Nicholson, John Earl Nicholson and his wife, Elaine, the year 1877. Tears scalded Elena's eyes and splattered her glasses, Common, Ordinary Grandmother so that she sat down with the old photo on her trembling lap and dabbed ineffectually at her streaming eyes. "Seek after the dead," the Lord had said. Elena ran a finger over the common, ordinary face of Catherine Elizabeth and found her suddenly beautiful. Just as suddenly, firmness was etched in the little woman's chin, and intelligence glowed in the large, dark eyes; a hand on his mother's shoulder revealed John Earl's respect for her. Great - great - grandmother Nicholson! The search was over! Years and ages recorded on the back of the photo made it all easy. For a moment, Elena was very still, her heart seemed to be listening intently while she pushed her glasses back up on her nose. Yes, God wanted the dead sought after and the hearts of the children turned to their forefathers. But who had been looking for whom? CR EASTER SONG I have come back along this path again To seek the quiet of these gold-trimmed trees, Whose black eroded roots and falling leaves, Speak to my soul clear as a sculptured frieze. So, let me rest and muse, as trees grow bare, And grieve for things I loved and cannot find— Heart hunger for the lost and greening spring, The summer growing of the ardent mind. I could not bear this golden loss that falls To fade and wither on the ground and stream, Unless I knew there waits a singing day— Another budding with a fairer dream. While breath shall last in me my faith be swift To know that spring will come—the dear Christ's gift.