[Vol57 | March 1970 | Page 168 | Special Feature | Charity Which Never Faileth Bruce | R. McConkie]
Charity Which Never Faileth Now, I think that the Lord first tried her faith. When he had proved her worthy by manifesting that charity which never faileth, then he gave her a glimpse within the veil. Ni ext, I shall read the experience of another widow, the widow of Zarephath. This woman lived in the day of Elijah, the day when the Tishbite had sealed the heavens. There was no rain, and as a consequence, a great famine fell upon all the land. The record says: _.. The word of the Lord came unto him [that is, Elijah] saying, Arise, get thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Zidon, and dwell there: Behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. So he arose and went to Zarephath. And when he came to the gate of the city, behold, the widow woman was there gathering of sticks: and he called to her, and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in a vessel, that I may drink. And as she was going to fetch it, he called to her, and said, Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thine hand. And she said, As the Lord thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but a handful of meal in a barrel, and a little oil in a cruse: and behold, I am gathering two sticks, that I may go in and dress it for me and my son, that we may eat it, and die. And Elijah said unto her, Fear not; go and do as thou hast said: but make me thereof a little cake first, and bring it unto me, and after make for thee and for thy son. For thus saith the Lord God of Israel, The barrel of meal shall not waste, neither shall the cruse of oil fail, until the day that the Lord sendeth rain upon the earth. _.. She went and did according to the saying of Elijah: and she, and he, and her house, did eat many days. And the barrel of meal wasted - not, neither did the cruse of oil fail, according to the word of the Lord, which he spake by Elijah. (I Kings 17:8-16.) 

169 March 1970

 Shortly after this Elijah raised the woman's son from death. Here again, I think the Lord first tried her faith. When she had proved herself worthy by manifesting that charity which never faileth, she gained the preserving care of the Almighty for herself and her household. Now, the fields of compassionate service have not all been plowed. Members of the Relief Society over the years have done wondrous work in this respect— the naked have been clothed; the hungry have been fed; the sick have been cared for and healed; but there are many occasions ahead for added service. We live in a perilous world situation. Things are not going to get better. They are going to get worse until the day of the coming of the Son of Man. And the tests that are being given to the members of the Lord's Church will, in my judgment, increase in severity and intensity. And because of this there will be more opportunities than there hitherto have been to labor on the Lord's errands, to render service to our fellow men, and to do the things, patterned after these two examples that I have read, which will enable us to work out our salvation. A: the present moment we are engaged in war in Viet Nam and elsewhere. There are wives of servicemen, daughters of servicemen, and mothers of servicemen who would need the compassionate care and attention that only the sisters of this great Godinspired organization are capable of giving. And these conditions that now prevail on the earth 170 are going to multiply and abound and increase and give rise to needed added compassionate service to a degree and an extent that we, in my judgment, have never hitherto known. Now, what is it that the Relief Society does for the women of the Church? What did it do for my grandmother, the widow of Moab? What did it or its equivalent organization in ancient Israel, do for the widow of Zarephath? It is perfectly clear to me that the Relief Society was given of God for the temporal and spiritual blessing of the members of his kingdom, not alone of his daughters, but of his sons, and that it is the divine agency which aids in bringing the members of his Church to full salvation in his kingdom. May I remind you of what James said? Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world. (James 1:27.) We build on the atoning sacrifice of Christ. We know that by the grace and goodness of the Lord, salvation is available. But, then, in order to reap the blessings of eternal life, we have to do two things, both indicated in this revelation. First we have to keep the commandments of God, and second, we have to serve our fellow men. There is something more than the general theme of obedience that is involved in acquiring the attributes of godliness here and reaping eternal reward hereafter. That something is service to our fellow men. Christ the Lord was himself the perfect pattern in this thing; he said "I am among you as one that serveth." It is true that a woman's chief and most important work is in the home and with her family, and that as President McKay says, "No success compensates for failure in the home." But it is also true that every woman needs outside interests, that she needs a God-given way to use the charitable talent with which she is endowed, that service to one's fellow men is essential to salvation, and that the Relief Society is the organization God has established to enable women to serve and to be guided in those channels wherein they can fill the full measure of their creation. When we talk about gaining salvation, about acquiring the attributes of godliness in this life so that they can be multiplied and perfected and given to us in full in the life to come, we are talking about thefamily unit. God, our Heavenly Father, lives and presides in the family unit. We are literally his offspring. We are his children. We are members of his family. And he ordained the laws and the system whereby we could advance, progress, and become like him. To become like him, we have to have the same character, perfections, and attributes that he possesses. And we have to live in the family unit as he lives in the family unit. And so he has given us, in this life, eternal family units, units that begin here with the potential and the possibility of continuing hereafter in the same relationship that exists where he, himself, is involved. And he has given us the opportunity toexperiment and labor and struggle and work and try in our Charity Which Never Faileth relationships with our fellow men to acquire those capabilities, those attributes, that measure of integrity and honesty and charity and decency and_ uprightness, that will enable us eventually to become like him. (Paul's expression is that we have to work out our salvation with fear and trembling before God.) The process of working out our salvation is one of acquiring the attributes of godliness, and this grows out of service and obedience. The matter of obedience is simply a matter of keeping the standards of personal righteousness that are involved; but the matter of service is a matter of getting out of ourselves and getting into the lives of other people, of touching the hearts of men, of taking to them the principles of the everlasting gospel, of helping them perfect and cleanse their lives, after they join the Church, of offering them temporal as well as_ spiritual blessings. It is just as essential that man eat temporal food as that he eat spiritual food. Without temporal food we will die physically, and without spiritual food we will die spiritually. The Relief Society organization is so geared, and so ordained as to work ably in both of these fields. When I leave this frail existence, When I lay this mortal by, Father, Mother, may I meet you In your royal courts on high? Then at length, when I've completed All you sent me forth to do, With your mutual approbation Let me come and dwell with you. Words of your great Relief Society poetess, Sister Eliza R. Snow! 

171 March 1970

 Now, in connection with this matter of Salvation, since there will be more women who will inherit full Salvation than there follows automathat women, accordingly, are In a position to labor and work in the compassionate services field in a far more effective and able manner than men ever could work. The deeds of two people. Sister Alice Colton Smith mentioned May I just take a moment to mention to you that we have Some great illustrations in the revelations where sisters are concerned. Mainly the Scriptures talk about what men have done because they deal with the organization of the kingdom and its general operation. But, providentially, the Lord has left us in the revelations enough scriptures to give us patterns for living. The patterns for living where women are concerned are such as these: We have the record of Mary, the mother of Christ. Gabriel ministered unto her. She Son of God. Her psalm of praise 172 ranks with the greatest psalms ever uttered, and, in my judgment, she is the Perfect example of complete submission to the will of the Lord. Her statement to Gabriel when the annunciation occurred was: ae Behold, the handmaid of the Lord, be it unto me according to thy word." (Luke 1:38.) And that ranks with what Christ himself said in the pre-existent sphere—"Father, thy will be done, and the glory be thine forever," (Moses 4:2.) Eve is another. She is, in fact, the pattern for all women. She knew the plan of Salvation; she preached the gospel; she prayed for blessings; she bore children; She taught the gospel. And one of the greatest single-sentence sermons that we have in all our revelations was spoken by Eve: ia Were it not for our transgression, we never Should have had seed, and never should have known good and evil, and the joy of our redemption and the eternal life which God giveth unto all the obedient." (Moses 15: 11.) In the light of our knowledge is the plan of salvation. Is it any wonder that our hymn says Mother of our generations, Glorious by great Michael's side, Take thy children's adoration; Endless with thy Lord preside.... Now, we might go on with Sarah, with Rebecca, with Rachel, with others, but time does not permit. But out of it all we come to the conclusion that everything that it is possible for man on earth to have—of a spiritual, ennobling, edifying, sanctifying nature—has been and is available for the women of the Lord's kingdom. They can _ become daughters of Jesus Christ. They take upon them the Lord's name. They are entitled to personal revelation. They can get all of the visions and guidance that men receive. When Rebecca had a problem, she went out and took it up with the Lord. And the record says "And the Lord said unto her," (Genesis 23:23) and she received the answer. Well, our time is up. I would just like to ask you this question as I come back now to the theme that I mentioned and the expressions that were read relative to these two widows: Of whom think ye that this revelation speaks? Charity Which Never Faileth Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world: For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in: Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw wethee an hungred, and fed thee? Or thirsty, and gave thee drink? When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? Or naked, and clothed thee? Or when saw we thee Sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I Say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me. (Matt. 25:34-40. ) In the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, Amen.