[Vol57 | March 1970 | Page 165 | Special Feature | In Memoriam— | President David]
Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. ©1970 by the Relief Society Generali Board Association. Editorial and Business Office. 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City. Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.50 a year; foreign, $2.50 a year; 25¢ a copy. Payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Nc back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Sait Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited 'manuscripts. 

163 March 1970

 McKay have maintained a hospitable, righteous, and happy home, where love for one another, love of family, of friends, and love of God have prevailed. He has clearly defined for women their divine mission on earth: Though woman's life is filled with almost everything which is good and lovely, it is not difficult to choose the two activities that are paramount in _ her world.... Motherhood is the greatest potential influence either for good or ill. Next to motherhood, woman attains her highest glory in the realm of compassionate service. ("The Highest and Best in Woman's Realm," The Relief Society Magazine, January 1940, pp. 17-22.) In seeking his counsel, the General Presidency found him approachable, affable, courteous, understanding of their needs and problems, but always clear and firm in his directives which reflected the inspired guidance of the Lord, to which he was entitled as God's chosen leader of his Church. President McKay's respect for woman was evident in the lofty position he accorded her in the Church as well asin his everyday relationships with her. In a comparatively recent meeting with him, as President Spafford rose to leave, President McKay with great effort due to his physical condition started to arise. One of the brethren reached out to restrain him, saying it was not 166 SSS necessary for him to stand. Promptly President McKay replied, "I always stand when a lady leaves the room." Today Relief Society has perhaps the most beautiful headquarters building of any woman's organization in the world. It was in September 1945 that President George Albert Smith, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., and President David O. McKay authorized the Relief Society Presidency to launch the building program. It was a happy day in October 1952 when President David O. McKay advised the Relief Society Presidency, just prior to the opening of the Relief Society General Conference, that The First Presidency, President David O. McKay, President Stephen L Richards, and President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., had granted Relief Society the choice site on the corner of Main Street and North Temple on which to erect the headquarters building. It was with rejoicing that the Relief Society women assembled on October 1953 in the shadow of the temple for the ground breaking ceremony, with President McKay turning the first shovel of dirt. On that occasion President McKay reminded us: No matter how commodious it may be, no matter how well-furnished the rooms, no matter how great the convenience of the furnishings, the house itself with all equipment is but a means to an end, and that end is the establishment in the hearts of the membership of the Church of a testimony of the truth of the restored gospel of Jesus Christ.... It is the means to a glorious end, the salvation of our Father's children.... And so this house becomes a means of furthering the work of the great Relief Society, the very heart and purpose of which is to bring happiness and peace into the homes and the hearts of the Latterday Saints. (The Relief Society Magazine, 1954, p. 805,) It was a sacred and impressive occasion when President McKay on October 3, 1956 offered the dedicatory prayer from the Relief Society Building. We commend to Relief Society women the world over a careful reading of this prayer which appears in the Relief Society Magazine, November 1956, page 788, from which are quoted a few excerpts: More potent for the good and happiness of the Church members than we realize are the Priesthood Quorums for the men, and the Auxiliary organizations for the women. These Thou hast placed in the Church for mutual service. In serving one another, we serve our Lord and Savior, who himself hath said: "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." On this memorable occasion, we praise thy name for the organization of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, for the thousands of loyal, faithful, beautiful women who compose its In

Memoriam—President David O. McKay membership. Their devotion to duty is never-ending; their loyalty to Thee and to Thy Priesthood unquestioned; their administrations to the sick and to the needy, untiring; their sympathetic, gentle services give hope to the dying, comfort and faith to the bereaved. O Father, bless these, thy choice, beloved Handmaidens! The Lord has blessed his handmaidens. He has blessed his Relief Society. He has blessed it through his divinely guided Prophets and Presidents since the day of its founding. The earthly mission of President McKay is finished. His responsibilities now must pass to other hands, but his contribution to the growth and advancement of the Church, the guidance he has given Relief Society, and the honor and respect he has accorded the women of the Church will ever remain a light and a blessing. Our hearts reach out in love and sympathy to Sister McKay whose influence on his life as wife and mother of his children and companion in service to the Church has been a blessing to him. Her devotion to Relief Society has been an enduring one, and her example of righteous Latter-day Saint womanhood has been a guiding light to countless Relief Society sisters. It is our earnest prayer that the comforting influence of the Lord will ever abide with Sister McKay and every member of the McKay family. 167 I Elder Bruce R. McConkie Of the First Council of Seventy [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969] Relief Society and I still receive fillment of the nm, omise Your very sister Belle Spafford, whom, with you, I admire and appreciate, has spoken of the compassionate services of this great organization. If 1 may be given guidance by the Spirit, if 1 may be given utterance, due course, to eternal reward in our Father's kingdom. As I thought and pondered what I should say today; questions like this came into my mind: what does the Relief Society mean to me? What does it mean influence and the great organization which Sister Spafford so over ably presides. Long service in a heaven-originated, a priesthood-led, and a gospel-oriented organization changes the lives of people and, providentially for me, it has changed the lives of those who are nearest and dearest to me. What it has done for them it can do and has done for great hosts of you. Now for a text, and also to set the tone for what I hope I may be guided in saying, I shall read to you a brief statement from the journal of my father in which he speaks of his mother and of my grandmother. My grandmother, Emma Somerville McConkie, was a ward Relief Society president in Moab, Utah, many years ago. At the time of this experience, she was a widow. My father writes this: Mother was president of the Moab Relief Society. J B__._[a__ nonmember who opposed the Church] had married a Mormon girl. They had several children; now they had a new baby. They were very poor and Mother was going day by day to care for the child and to take them baskets of food, etc. Mother herself was ill, and more than once was hardly able to get home after doing the work at the J BW home. One day she returned home especially tired and weary. She slept in her chair. She dreamed she was bathing a baby which she discovered was the Christ Child. She thought, Oh, what a great honor to thus serve the very Christ! As she held the baby in her lap, she was all but overcome. She thought, who else has actually held the Christ Child? Unspeakable joy filled her whole being. She was aflame with the glory of the Lord. It seemed that the very marrow in her bones would melt. Her joy was so great it awakened her. As she awoke, these words were spoken to her, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto Ld me.