[Vol57 | March 1970 | Page 181 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]
Ramona W. Cannon Mrs. LaVern W. Parmley, General President of the Latter-day Saint Primary Association, received an "Outstanding Citizen Award" from Region Twelve of Boy Scouts of America in November, in Salt Lake City, Utah. She was cited for her many years of service to the youth of the region. Mrs. Parmley was the first woman ever to serve on a national scouting committee. She said that fifty thousand cub scouts are being trained in the Primary and that eighty-five per cent of the boys are being graduated from Primary as Second Class Scouts. Mrs. Frieda Ward is the capable administrator of the Spafford Memorial Children's Hospital at Jerusalem. She is the daughter of the late Bertha Spafford Vester, founder of the hospital, who also sponsored foundling homes, clinics, and soup. Kitchens. The hospital cares for Arab and Israeli children and any others in need of help. It is supported by a fundraising organization, of which noted explorer and lecturer Lowell Thomas is president. Sylvia Porter, brilliant syndicated columnist on financial matters, recently wrote five frank articles analyzing the economy of 1969 as compared to the 1929 stock market crash in the United States, followed by a world depression. No rules protected the stock-buying public in 1929, she points out. Now there are stringent protective rules. Also the self-regulatory powers of the markets and exchanges have become progressively tighter. The disciplinary powers of these self-regulatory agencies have never been tougher. Therefore, a market crash today is far less likely than in 1929. In 1969 Janet Lynn, fifteen, became the ladies Figure Skating champion. Also Diane Crump, the first girl jockey in a Hialeah horse race, came in tenth. Eight girls enrolled in the Temple University ROTC program. Vivien Kellems, seventytwo, waged a war against unfair taxes for single persons. Shirley R. Heinze and Frances V. Chaffin were the first women to be graduated from the United States Army Command School. Both served in Vietnam. For the second time in history, the president of the United Nations is a woman, Angie E. Brooks, Assistant Secretary of State for Liberia. Dr. Lois M. Jones, Kay L. Lindsay, Eileen R. McSaveny, and Terry Lee Tickhill became the first women to be given a natural science grant to study the Antarctic Regions. Mrs. Cynthia Clark Wedel was elected president of the National Council of Churches, another historic first. Miss Maxine Jones, of Provo, Utah, entered the University of Utah Medical School's Rehabilitation Center almost totally paralyzed from an automobile accident. After six months' therapy and heroic personal effort, she could move her arms freely and walk with the aid of a crutch. She expects to become completely normal and hopes to establish a foundation for more studies on nerve tissue regeneration, to help other such cases. The Center is the only "wide team'' approach rehabilitation center between the Mississippi and the Pacific Coast. ''Wide team'' means that patients receive help, as needed, from physical, speech, OCCupational, and other kinds of therapists, and from social workers, psychologists, ~ nurses, and physicians. In this team are a number of Latter-day Saint men and women. 181