[Vol57 | March 1970 | Page 236 | General Feature | Homemaking— "He That Gathereth in Summer Is a Wise Son" Celestia | J. Taylor]
234 Lesson Department HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Woman's Role in Family Preparedness Discussion 9 "'He That Gathereth in Summer Is a Wise Son: But He That Sleepeth in Harvest Is a Son That Causeth Shame."' (Prov. 10:5.) Celestia J. Taylor Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, June 1970 Southern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, November 1970 OBJECTIVE: To point out to the Latter-day Saint woman appropriate utilization of available foods. INTRODUCTION Are we among those who subscribe to the philosophy that "the world owes us a living" or that there is real merit in getting "something for nothing'? Widespread among the peoples of the world today are various ideas such as these which, if we espouse them, undermine our self-reliance and jeopardize our ability to take care of ourselves. If we are mature and realistic in our thinking, we will know that life is not easy, that we must, in reality, earn our bread by the sweat of our brow, as the words of the scriptures tell us. We will know that we cannot rely or depend on others to take care of us and our families in time of need, but that we must put forth every 236 effort to be self-sustaining in any eventuality. The following words of President Brigham Young are just as applicable today as they were when he spoke them: My faith does not lead me to think the Lord will provide us with roast pigs, bread already buttered, etc. He will give us the ability to raise the grain, to obtain the fruits of the earth, to make habitations and when harvest comes, giving us the grain, it is for us to preserve it—to save the wheat until we have one, two, five, or seven years' provisions on hand, until there is enough of the staff of life saved by the people to bread themselves and those who will come here seeking for safety. Will you do this? "Aye, maybe I will," says one, and "maybe I won't," says another "'... The Lord has said it is His business to provide for His Saints, and I guess He will do it." I have no doubt but He will provide for His Saints, but if you do not take this counsel and be industrious and prudent, you will not long continue to be one of His Saints --. SOW, plant, buy half a bushel of wheat here, and a bushel there, and store it up till you get your five or seven years' provisions on hand. (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, Vol. 10, pp. 293- 94 [hereafter referred to as JD].) AVAILABILITY OF FOODS Our families have been encouraged to preserve seasonal foods —fruits, vegetables, grains, and nuts—when they are abundant, by home preservation methods. These foods can be made available in the following ways: I. By planting gardens at home whenever possible. Z. By participating in home and/or group canning. 3.

[Homemaking— "He That Gathereth in Summer Is a Wise Son" Celestia J. Taylor]

By purchasing from farmers, fruit growers, and markets when seasonal fruits and vegetables are plentiful. By fishing and hunting in season. By drying excess supplies of driable fruits and vegetables—prunes, apples, pears, apricots, corn, peas, etc. — PROPER UTILIZATION OF FOODS To maintain high quality in home-stored foods, the following recommendations are made: = In storing wheat, the General Church Welfare Committee has recommended that dark hard winter wheat of a good grade with a moisture content of 10% or below Should be obtained. (Methods of Preparation and storage are readily available.) 2. The initiation of a rotation plan for stored foods is advisable to insure against spoilage. (Cans, jars, and packages should be dated.) 3.

All stored food should be kept away from continual exposure to light and Stored in a dry, cool, but well above freezing temperature. Fruits, vegetables, and meats properly processed in glass jars will keep in a cool, dark, dry place fully as long as canned goods. Lesson Department UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Happiness js total blecttic living 16 and 23 Days—Leaves July 25 PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US SOUTHERN TEMPLE TOUR March 15-21 NORTH PACIFIC COAST TOUR June 11-20 HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT TOURS CANADIAN ROCKIES and NORTHWEST TOUR August 17-30 HAWAII ALOHA TOUR October 8-21 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723 

237 March 1970

 4. Root vegetables such as _ potatoes, carrots, turnips and cabbage, and fruits such as apples and winter pears can be stored in cool cellars with dirt floors or in properly ventilated pits or bins. 5. Dried foods—beans, peas, rice, etc. —should be sealed in airtight containers for best keeping. 6. In storing powdered milk, the dry non-fat or skim milk is preferable, as it is less expensive than whole milk, has all the nutritive values of whole milk (except the fat), and will store much longer—approximately three to five years if kept dry at 40 degrees F.; one to two years under higher temperatures not exceeding 70 degrees. 7. Sugar, honey, and other sweeteners will last indefinitely if stored under the proper conditions. CONCLUSION There should be no reason for any of us to be unaware of our responsibilities or for our failure to properly utilize available foods. Even those who live under what might be termed adverse climactic conditions can, with the proper adjustments and _ adaptations, work out a successful, or at least an adequate food preparation program. All families may find help and suggestions in our discussions which will alleviate some of their problems. Valuable suggestions are available and many have been given by those who have made a careful study of the emergency needs of our families—the directors of the General Church Welfare Program, the extension services of our universities, the United States Department of Agriculture and of Health, Education and Welfare; our civil defense programs, and other organizations and individuals who are concerned with our welfare. These have all been consulted in the 238 preparation of our homemaking discussions. Since storage conditions differ in geographical areas, State extension bulletins should be consulted for accurate information about the best local storage practices. Storage fads may be avoided by consulting these sources. AD HAPPINESS Happiness is many things, Both inborn and acquired, It comes to him who seeks it least Self-sacrifice inspired. It dwells in every humble heart, Finds room with troubled care. Soon chases out depression, doubt, And conquers all despair. —Sylvia Neale Northampton, England New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone 1 and2 _..55 Zone5 ~.~--~.-.75 Zone3._-_--.60 Zone6 __.-~-85 Zone4 _._--.65 Zone7 ~_.--.95 Zone 8.. - - -1.05 a PESERET [—PeEws PREsS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892 One year's food supply $142.95 te ($158.95 value — A 12 ji ked D> EPR S=Ba cama — #10 cone Woe apacked cases — \ Cleneper: 9 fruits, 6 grains, 3 protein foods, MUSIC COMPANY 8 vegetables plus juices, desserts, ster - Sugar, seasoning and assorted Singing Mothers menu extras. "Choir Directors' Balanced food Supply in con- ==;. Venient-to-store cartons is scien. We specialize in Mail Order Service tifically prepared to fill the nutri. Sheet Music Pianos Instruments tional needs of one person for one And Supplies full year ora family of 4-6 three Come in and Acquaint yourself months. Pick up in Salt Lake or with our music department we will ship freight collect. —_, Gross shipping weight: 365 Ibs. Home of the wanted = finest Salt Lake area, inquire about free Mason and Hamlin Pianos demonstrations. RS 370 Yes! We Ship All Over the World. PERMA PAIK -NEW ADDRESS. 65 South West Temple Street =40 East 2430 South, Salt Lake City,. Utah 84115 + Phone (801) 486.967} —_ ———o-,. AROUND THE WORLD with W. Cleon Skousen London ¢ Cairo e Holy Land India e Hong Kong e Japan Expo May 25 Departure OTHER TOURS FOR '70 EUROPE e HAWAII e SOUTH PACIFIC SOUTH AMERICA e DOMESTIC CARIBBEAN e SCANDINAVIAN i ee MURDOCK TRAVEL INC. 14 So. Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah 328-316] Gentlemen: Cj Please send me the brochure on your Round the World Tour L) Send me your brochure on Your 2 Tour for 1970 239 