[Vol57 | March 1970 | Page 177 | Special Feature | Red Cross and Volunteering Em/7 | E. Henderson]
As their Red Cross and Volunteering Emil E. Henderson 'My Yoke Is Easy and My Burden Is Light"' warm, tender care spreads its web around our earth, they will become a standard to the nations. Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is hight. (Matt. 11:28-30.) God bless the visiting teachers. For when all work together the voke is easy and the burden is light. By this shall all men know that we are our Lord's disciples, if we have love one to another. May it ever be so, I pray in the name of our loving Savior, Jesus Christ, Amen. @ At this time great emphasis is being given to the idea that the individual volunteer holds the key to solving many of the nation's problems. We _ have learned that government cannot reach all the recesses of human need. Just as the effort of the individual seemed inadequate against the wilderness in pioneer times so does the single effort fall short of significant solutions of community ills in our day. Thus, we meet the challenge by organizing groups of volunteers in Red Cross, the Church, and other community agencies that collectively we may meet the needs of the neglected, the troubled, the handicapped and the ill. Volunteering even goes further than meeting needs of the unfortunate. People under this banner teach classes and provide leadership and instruction in character building and recreation activities in many facets of the community including civic and church programs. We need to make a sincere effort to serve and involve the entire community. Helping all its people to meet their human needs is one of the most important tasks facing our nation today. It is an exciting challenge that calls for creative response by all keen-minded, socially alert individuals and groups. By virtue of its scope and social significance, it is also a task that requires maximum effort on the part of everyone. In the vast field of volunteering all kinds of needs must be met and there is a place for people with all manner of skills. All of us have something to offer that will be a significant contribution in the broad field of service to others. The American National Red Cross has committed itself to total involvement in this national effort. We encourage greater effort on the part of all people that we may bring hope and comfort to all in need of the hand of fellowship, thus fulfilling the admonition ''... Imasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me''. (Matt. 25:40.).