[Vol57 | March 1970 | Page 174 | Special Feature | "My Yoke Is Easy and My Burden Is Light" Alice | C. Smith]
YOKE IS EASY AND MY BURDEN Is LIGHT" Alice C. Smith Member, General Board of Relief Society [Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 1, 1969. I Come unto me, all ye that Jabour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. (Matt. 11:28-30.) w Across the centuries from the shores of the eastern Mediterranean comes this warm invitation from our Savior. As Jesus climbed the dry hills of Galilee oF trod the dusty roads of Judaea, he met poverty, disease, and afflictions of every found the sinner repentant and unrepentant. He met 'ng. And out of these solicitation, In 1830, Smith declared that 66 God is _., the same unchangeable God..-* (D&C 90:17.) and so, it ls ise that on July 28th in 1843, SI Relief Society sisters were appointed _to relieve the wants of Relief Society ---° Historical Sketch, Amy Brown Lyman, } teen in a world of millions! But there had to be a beginning. In 1843, sixteen, today, well over 000; the day after tomorrow two million. For many years. Was delighted to see her. I wanted to know all about her. I asked her what she was doing in the Church now. 'There was a noticeable c "Oh, thought, after we parted, would she feel if the Savior came to her next visiting teacher meet- "J want you to be my I want you to tell all the women in your I want you to be my helper, to Sisters, and care for them so that all wil] be think of visiting teaching as a chore or as a great spiritual blesSing and Privilege given to them by their Savior? To the visiting teacher, then, is given the great responsibility of Searching out those in need. Moreover, She tells al] her sisters by her visit that someone Cares and that God cares, The Visiting teacher Should be be safe. It is someone who listens and someone who wants to listen. It is someone who js interested happens to her friend. It is Someone who always helps when needed. When I go to the door and see my best friend Standing there can't wait © open the door to let her in. I am delighted to see her. I love her as [I know she loves me. The Visiting teacher should evoke such a response in everyOne over whom whe watches. She "My Yoke Is Easy and My Burden Is Light"' is not someone, or she Should not "I've just a few minutes—J] know you've read the Message and you know it better than I do, and besides, you don't need it anyway. How are you? And I'll see you at the next Relief Society meeting." The Visiting teacher Should leave behind her love that blesses both the sister and most intimate friend, but She should be the best friend. Few years ago as I was leaving the chapel after a Relief Society meeting, my Visiting teacher stopped me. "Alice," you need. I wish something for you," "But you do do Something for I said: "You bring me a message of love. I am your concern for me and my But she didn't seem entirely satisfied. Bread. "After ] left you today," "T remembered you told me once that your university duties keep you so busy you never have time to bake bread. So Five years ago we returned to our home after a three-year's absence. We were tired from a door and there stood this same visiting teacher (now long since 

175 March 1970

 released) with a loaf of freshly baked bread and a jar of raspberry jam and the explanation that she had seen us drive by just as she was about to take the bread out of the oven. I love the emblem of the Relief Society with its motto, "Charity Never Faileth," but my own private emblem of visiting teaching will always be a loaf of freshly baked homemade bread. We are "to relieve the wants of all." In our confused and complex world, as in the world of Jesus, there is loneliness, despair, sin, sorrow, and suffering. We do not know which day will find these in the home of our friends. We must be prepared. Compassion is a way of life. Darlene, young, pretty, charming, the mother of a young baby, developed multiple sclerosis. Swiftly the disease progressed so that she couldn't even take care of her baby. It was at this time that she was visited by two compassionate visiting teachers. "Pour oil and wine to the wounds of the distressed,' counseled the Prophet Joseph Smith. They continued to call and to help. Her other friends, at first attentive, visited less and less often as the years went by. Her husband deserted her. Darlene grew bitter. She met overtures of help with angry hostile words. Why should she lie in bed helpless when others traveled, worked, and played as they wished? Why should she lie in bed and grow weaker and weaker? She railed against her fate, and as she did, her friends ceased to come. One of the visiting teachers moved away, and the other was 176 released, but her loving care did not stop. Through the years she visited frequently, offering her continuing care. She saw through Darlene's angry, hostile words. Even when they were directed against her, she did not forsake the hurt and suffering one. Recently Darlene's family moved to Utah. Darlene, now completely bedridden and still under forty, moved here also. Was that the end of her old visiting teacher's care? No. A long distance telephone call to a member of the visiting teacher's family in Utah: "'Please go see Darlene. Tell her that I think of her and love her. Please go see her whenever you can." Compassion is a way of life. Years of care and distance make no difference when a visiting teacher is a _ loving best friend. The visiting teachers' messages are important. The rules that govern our visiting teaching are important, but beyond and above them all, and far more important, is the understanding, concerned, and _ loving heart. Never were visiting teachers more needed. The visiting teacher may never meet a Darlene, but every month she finds those who need love and acceptance. Loneliness plagues our world. Loneliness wears many faces. We may not suspect its presence. But it is often there. Every year the Church grows bigger and as it does, the need for visiting teachers grows greater. What will be their future? They will help combat the loneliness which plagues our world and impersonality of the big cities. They will look after the stranger, the widow, the orphan, the wounded, and distressed. They will look after all sisters with loving, concerned care. They will be needed as my grandmother was needed when she left her warm, pioneer bed on stormy nights to drive miles with a horse and buggy in response to a cry of need. As my mother during the depression found the hungry, so will they. As my visiting teacher brought me a loaf of freshly baked homemade bread and love, so will they. They will help relieve physical, emotional, and mental suffering. They will aid the sinner and comfort the sorrowing. They will carry a message of gospel love to all the sisters throughout the world every month.