[Vol57 | March 1970 | Page 206 | General Feature | The Flowering Dunes Dorothy J. Roberts and | Telia Strang]
THE FLOWERING DUNES Dorothy J. Roberts and Tella Strang Transparencies by the authors th Cactus Blossoms, } Butterfly on Pentstemon Blossom <a _ Sand Vertena, Primroees: Jericho Desert, U tah Bird's Nest In A Sheltered Place 5. Al 7 Dunes and Distance and Beautiful Bushes Monument Valley, Utah In the late spring rains pour on the Jericho sand dunes, an untamed part of the Great American Desert, which includes the Great Basin between the Rockies and the Sierra Nevada Mountains from Oregon to Mexico. Suddenly the blossoms appear. The entire spring is gray with rains. Great billowy clouds turn coral at sunfall, are set with double rainbows.

(continued on page 211) A Springtime Buffet Mary J. Wilson Former Member, General Board of Relief Society LET MARCH BE GAY As we weary of the frosty winter's way, And feel the sharp and piercing wind Foretokening storm is on its way, Let us refresh our souls in gaiety. 208 Make light the hearts of friends— Let love and harmony combine with Delectable dainties spread for their delight. Awake to the awareness there are songs in flowers. —Oa J. Cannon FRUIT COMPOTE 22 gal. Lemon sherbet (must be the kind made with water) 4 c. Strawberries, cut in two 4 c. Grapes, cut in two 3c. Apples, peeled and cut in smail cubes 3 bananas (frozen blueberries or any other fruit may be substituted) Fold fruit into sherbet just before serving. Serves 60. PARTY DRINK 1 6-0z can frozen orange juice concentrate 2 6-0z. Cans frozen trate 9 c. Water 1 qt. Vanilla ice cream 3 pts. Pineapple sherbet lemonade _ concenCombine concentrates and water. Just before serving, beat in ice cream and sherbet. CUCUMBER SANDWICHES Chop or grate a cucumber and drain well. Cream 3 oz. Of cream cheese with salt and chopped chives to taste. Add cucumber and spread rounds of bread for open-face sandwiches. DATE BREAD 1 pkg. Dates, chopped (4 ounces) 1% c. Water 1 c. Sugar 1 tbsp. Melted butter 1 egg, well-beaten 2% c. Flour Y2 tsp. Salt 2 tsp. Soda 1 c. Nuts vanilla Boil chopped dates, water, and sugar together for 15 minutes and cool. Combine with remainder of ingredients. Bake in 325° oven, 1 hour for loaf pan, 45 minutes for dripper pan. MANDARIN ORANGE SANDWICH Butter a thin round of bread and spread with salad dressing or softened cream cheese. Fold, as you would a Parker House roll, over a well-drained mandarin orange section.