Notes from the Field
Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary Relief Society

Maricopa Stake
During the month of December, 1921, the Relief Society president of the Chandler ward and four of her officers (both counselors, organist and chorister) were visited by the stork. We are pleased to print a picture of these happy mothers, together with their new babies. In an effort to increase the attendance in Maricopa stake, a contest was conducted during the last three months of 1921, The

wards attaining the best average attendance were entertained by the losing wards. In one division the Second ward women were the winners and a royal party was tendered them by the First ward women who were the losers. In another division the Third ward women won a delicious six course chicken dinner from the defeated Fourth ward Relief Society. On February 4, Sister A. MacDonald, an active Relief Society worker, died as a result of an accident. She was born May 12, 1841, in Scotland, and with her father and mother joined the Church and emigrated to Utah in 1862, undergoing all of the

hardships incident to those early times. She, with her husband, Alexander F. MacDonald, settled in St. George, where they assisted in the building of the temple. She later moved to Arizona where she has held many positions of trust in the Relief Society, being first counselor when the organization was first effected in Mesa. At a recent conference held in Maricopa stake, the feature of the conference was a comprehensive and detailed report of the General Relief Society conference, by President Mamie Clark. An innovation was an Indian song by one of the old Papago Indian women, representing the Papago ward. During the noon recess a May festival was held and Mrs. Clark was crowned the Queen of the May. One hundred fifty were present at the morning session and one hundred nineteen at the afternoon meeting.

Liberty Stake
A testimonial was given in November, in honor of former president Mrs. Lottie Paul Baxter, and her counselors, Mrs. Ellen H. Woolley and Mrs. Annie Vetterli. There were in attendance representatives of the General Board, members of other Salt Lake City stakes, and several brethren. Appropriate speeches were given and books of sentiments were presented to the retiring presidency. The new presidency are, Mrs. Myrtle Ballard Shurtliff, president; Mrs. Leona Holbrook and Mrs. Annie M. Sheets, counselors. Mrs. Mary A. Hyde White and Lucretia M. Cooley, former secretary and treasurer respectively, were retained. An interesting report of what is known as the "Home Bound" work was made by Liberty stake for the year 1921. By "Home Bound" work they mean visiting or holding meetings at the homes of the aged or indisposed. Some of these visits are made to the Salt Lake County Infirmary. They report 988 hours spent in this special activity. Among other things they distributed flowers amounting to $22.10; oranges, $2.50; apples, $1.50; one hundred thirty-five glasses of jelly, fifty dozen cookies, and sixteen pounds of candy.

St. Joseph Stake
On January 7, the St. Joseph stake Relief Society Board was reorganized. Mrs. Josephine C. Kimball and her associates were honorably released and the following officers sustained: President, Mrs. Ethel D. Payne, counselors, Mrs. Mary Jacobson and
 
Mrs. Nettie K. Phillips; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Ellis C. Hoopes; musical director, Mrs. Lola M. Shumway. The General Board appreciates very much the splendid work and able leadership of Mrs. Josephine C. Kimball, who has been tireless in her efforts to raise the standards of Relief Society work in her particular field. Mrs. Kimball was one of the first stake presidents to organize and carry forward a systematic arrangement for ward conferences, which has been most successful and helpful. She has instituted other types of activity equally as helpful.

South Davis Stake
On March 26, 1922, at the regular quarterly conference of the South Davis stake, the Relief Society was reorganized. President Elizabeth G. Ford, with her faithful officers and entire board were honorably released. A Relief Society session was held in the evening which was devoted to a review of the splendid work done by Mrs. Ford and her co-workers, with tributes of love and respect for their splendid service. For many years Mrs. Ford has worked devotedly for the Relief Society and the records of the organization chronicle the name of no worker more faithful and zealous. Her labors have been appreciated not only by the General Board but by all Relief Society workers in the South Davis stake. The new officers selected for the South Davis stake are: Mrs. Emma P. Walton, president; Mrs. Clara S. Rose and Mrs. Effie P. Eldredge, counselors; Mrs. Evelyn E. Rich, secretary.

Melbourne,