Let Us Seek Eternal Life
Reinhard Maeser, of the Brigham Young University

"And this is life eternal, that they might know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent." Jn. 17:13.

God's greatest gift to man is eternal life, in which gift lies the very glory of our heavenly Father. In order, then, to receive this wonderful blessing and therein help to enlarge the glory of the Lord, it is incumbent upon us to fulfil certain conditions—live up to certain principles, which bring to us the enjoyment of this precious gift. Eternal life is more than simply endless prolongation of life somewhere, and under a somewhat indifferent sort of existence; eternal life, being the most precious of the gifts of God, must have back of it glories, principalities, powers, dominions that far outreach the ability of man to conceive. In Sec. 89:7, Doc. And Cov., we read: "Seek not for riches. But for wisdom, and behold, the mysteries of God shall be unfolded unto you, and then shall you be made rich. Behold he that hath eternal life is rich." Eternal Life such as is contemplated by the term, "God's greatest gift to man," is to be obtained only upon the strictest adherence to the principles of life. Or in other words, the gospel of Jesus Christ. The Lord has told us this in these words found in Sec. 14:5-7, Doc. And Cov., "Keep my commandments in all things; and, if you keep my commandments and endure to the end, you shall have eternal life, which is the greatest of all the gifts of God."

An inquiry into these commandments whereby to obtain eternal life may not be amiss. The fundamental principles of the gospel are familiar to us all. There is one law, however, which though not foremost, perhaps, yet is one of the essential things to be sacredly kept if we are to become partakers of God's greatest gift. It is the Word of Wisdom particularized in Sec. 89 of the Doc. And Cov. This Word may well be considered as God's "health law" to bring about the physical as well as the spiritual salvation of the human family. It is easily to be inferred that the Word of Wisdom is to be included among the laws to be kept to get eternal life since the Lord says we shall keep his commandments "in all things" if we wish to have eternal life. This is a wonderful law which has been given to us; wonderful in that it antedates all scientific knowledge of any dangerous results coming from the use of the things therein forbidden. It is a word of warning given by a merciful and kind Father to his
 
selfish and easily misguided children. A word which seems to imply that the evils which man has brought upon himself, through his indulgence of the things forbidden, may be cured by a strict following of the admonitions therein contained; for it specifically states that "all Saints who remember to keep and do these things, walking in obedience to the commandments, shall receive health in their navel, and marrow to their bones." Some people, whose weakness has led them to the breaking of this commandment, attribute their violation to ancestral transference of propensities toward such things. This does not seem to be a plea worthy of any consideration, since the tendency to indulge in many of the forbidden things has become habitual in us through our own indulgences and lack of the exercise of the strength within us. It were a shame for us to becloud the memory of the dead by casting upon them the cause of our own weaknesses. No ancestor has entailed upon any man a necessity for his breaking any of the