[WomansExponent | Vol37 | 1908 | October | Issue: 3 | Title: R. S. REPORTS. | Author: E. J. T. ROBERTS,]

			R. S. REPORTS.
		PANGUITCH STAKE.
	Panguitch Stake Relief Society Confer-
ence convened in the Panguitch Tabernacle
June 24, 1908, First Counselor Alice J.
Cameron presiding. Opening exercises,
minutes, etc.
	President H. A. Crosby was glad to meet
with her sisters in conference, but was
greatly disappointed in not having some of
the sisters from Salt Lake City to visit us;
but prayed the Lord to bless us in our con-
ference that we might have a time of rejoic-
ing together, and be built up and benefitted
by coming.
	Counselor Sarah A. Houston, like Presi-
dent Crosby, felt disappointed beeause we
had no sisters from Salt Lake to attend our
conference. Reported her visit around the
stake, had a good time, enjoyed the trip,
but was very tired. Said they found all of
the organizations in good running order but
two, and their presidents had resigned on
account of poor health. They had filled each
vacancy and all was in good order. Asked
the Lord to bless all the Relief Society
branches in the Stake.
	Maria L. Sargent told of her trip around
the stake. Had Brother John S. Crosby to
drive for them. Found in every ward only
the same few sisters that always attend to
their meetings, and the others they could
not get at. Thought that was where we
needed our sisters to work in the homes and
get the sisters that never come to meetings
of any kind interested in Relief Society
work. They do not know what it is or they
would come, not lose such precious bless-
ings. The sisters wherever we went were
interested in storing wheat.
	The secretary read a report from Kingston
ward, the sisters were doing good work, had
sent some money to the Manti Temple to
pay for work for the dead. Some of the
sisters wanted to come to conference but
couldn’t get away to come.
	Sister Julia Wilson reported the Hillsdale
Ward was not doing very well on ac-
count of their president being sick for over
a year, but hoped to do better in the future.
	Sister Gemmitt Ott, president of Tropic
Ward, reported her ward as being fully or-
ganized, and have been taking the lessons
as outlined.
	Sister Jane Rappley of Tropic told of the
way they had been carrying on their lessons
during the winter, had chosen sides and de-
bated. and had learned much. The teach-
ers must visit every month. Had some wheat
on hand and hoped to be able to store more
this fall. The Bishops had promised to
help them with their wheat.
	Sister Elizabeth Cameron hoped to be
able to do her duty. Asked the Lord to
bless us and unite us.
	Conference was adjourned until 2 o’clock
after singing and benediction.
	Conference reconvened at 2 o’clock p. m.
Opened with singing, prayer, minutes, etc.
	Sister Mary B. Heywood reported the
Panguitch Relief Society. Said all that at-
tended the meetings were benefitted and
seemed to be interested, were taking the
lessons as outlined. Thought the attend-
ance was better this year than last; as an
average it was 30. Had sent several sisters
to take the nurses class course. Read a
letter from Sister Mabel Church who had
taken the nurse class course and graduated
with honors.
	Sister Bnnker from Mexico said she well
remembered when the Relief Society was

[Column 2]
organized by the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
had been a member ever since; was thank-
ful for the privilege. Told of the martyr-
dom of the Prophet Joseph, and of her testi-
mony that Brigham Young was the man to
take his place and carry on the work of the
Lord. Prayed the Lord to bless our Soci-
ety.
	Sister Elizabeth DeLong bore her testi-
mony to the work of the Lord that we are
engaged in. Said the Relief Society work
was a great one. Advised the sisters to be
careful what they say and not backbite each
other, but say good things about each other,
for the Relief society sisters are expected to
do a great work and help each other.
	Sister Adeline Tuttle, a worker in the
Manti Temple was glad to meet with the sis-
ters. Bore her testimony to the Gospel.
Advised the brethren and sisters to do more
Temple work for themselves and their dead
friends.
	Sister Zina Hanks recited “In Grandpa’s
Days.”
	Sister Ella Cameron from Idaho, said she
was very glad to meet with the sisters in
conference, felt well in the work, and asked
the Lord to bless us all.
	Sister Kate Heywood thought the Relief
Society work was grand, but she couldn’t
always come to meeting, but would like to
attend the meetings regularly. Asked the
Lord to bless us all with the spirit of cheer-
fulness.
	President David Cameron gave us some
good advice. Told of the Prophet Joseph
Smith, his good work for women when he
organized the Relief Society. Encouraged
the sisters to press on in the good work.
	President M. M. Steele was always glad
to meet with the sisters. Urged them to be
punctual, “Start on time and stop on time.”
Spoke of the word of wisdom. Said all the
sisters who held offices in the Relief Society
should obey the word of wisdom. “Sisters
don’t tempt your husbands by offering them
tea or coffee. May the Lord help us to do our
duty at all times.”
	President H. A. Crosby said conference
would adjourn until ten o’clock tomorrow
morning after singing and benediction.
			Panguitch, June 25, 1908.
	The second days’ conference convened.
Opened with singing and prayer; continued
singing, minutes, etc.
	Sister Alice Jane Cameron was the first
speaker; said she was glad to be able to
meet with the sisters in this conference and
that we had the Spirit of the Lord with us.
Spoke of the power of prayer. That we
should always pray and teach our children
to pray. We should be careful in the train-
ing of our children. Keep them in nights;
that all parents should be united in the
training of our children, for we sisters can
do nothing alone. Spoke of the Stake fund,
explained what it is used for. Said we
should teach our children the principle of
tithing and all the principles of the Gospel.
Teach our children to be polite to the aged
people.
	Sister Ann Burgess, a very aged and dear
sister, 87 years, gave us some good
instruction, bore a strong testimony of the
Gospel. Told of how she became a Latter-
day Saint. Prayed the Lord to bless us all
and comfort us in our homes.
	Sister Emily Bunker said she had been a
member of the Church 68 years, and was
proud to be numbered with such people,
and hoped to be found faithful to the end.
Told of her mothers experience with the


[Column 1]
Indians. She was taken captive, but her
life was preserved. Told of the early his-
tory of the Church, which was very interest-
ing. Spoke of the way the people disregard
the Sabbath day. It should not be done;
we should keep God’s commandments and
keep the Sabbath day holy. We should live
for something besides pleasure.
	President Hannah A. Crosby was glad
and thankful for the testimony of our aged
sisters, we should value it beyond price.
Advised mothers to watch their children and
teach them the Gospel. Do not let them
run the streets nights, for there are so many
temptatious. Spoke of the missionaries and
their work, and of the word of wisdom.
	Dismissed by singing and benediction.
	The afternoon session of our conference
commenced by singing and prayer; contin-
ued by singing and minutes, etc.
	Sister Ella Cameron was the first speak-
er. Told of her trip to Salt Lake City to
attend the Young Ladies’ Mutual confer-
ence. It was well represented, from Cana-
da in the north to old Mexico in the south.
Had some very good instructions. Wished
all could live up to what we have heard.
Told of the companionship that should ex-
ist between mother and daughter. Home-
making is the duty of every mother, and
they should have happy homes.
	Sister Adair from Tropic Ward gave a
lecture on the life of our Savior. The first
miracle of our Lord and Savior at a mar-
riage-feast, where he turned water into
wine.
	Sister Rachel Wilson recited a piece en-
titled “The Amen Corner.”
	Brother William Cameron of Idaho was
glad to meet with the Relief Society. Asked
the Lord to bless all the sisters in their
noble work. Spoke of the training of our
children, keep them in good company.
Urged the sisters not to talk about each
other and try to pull others down; but try to
build each other up. “God bless all of the
sisters. Amen.”
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith, President of
the Relief Society in all the world, and
other officers were sustained, also President
Hannah A. Crosby, and the Panguitch Stake
officers of the Relief Society.
	Conference was then adjourned for one
year. Closed by the choir singing ‘‘School
thy feelings, O my brother.,’ Benediction
Elder Leonard Sargent.
			SARAH D. DYRETT.
					Stake Secretary.
			ALPINE STAKE.
 	The quarterly conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Alpine Stake of Zion was held
at Pleasant Grove, July 17, 1908. President
Rebecca Strandring presiding.
	Our conference was favored with the at-
tendance of Sisters Ida Smoot Dusenberry
and Sarah J. Cannon of the General Board.
	After the usual exercises President Stand-
ring greeted the sisters and reported the
Stake in good condition, felt gratified with
the advancement of the work and the unity
of the sisters. “The Lord had a special pur-
pose in organizing this Society. It is for the
sisters to be helps to the brethren, but this
was only secondary; we were to save souls,
and to raise our children in the fear of the
Lord. The work of the Lord is growing and
we should endeavour to keep up to the
times.” Prayed for the spirit of the Lord
to dictate us at all times.
	Lehi, 1st ward, reported by President
Hannah P. Jones. Lehi, 2nd ward, by Presi-

[Column 2]
dent Kate Allred. American Fork, 1st ward,
President E. J. Durrant. American Fork,
2nd ward, President Sarah S. Chipman.
	The presidents all gave encouraging re-
ports. Meetings are fairly well attended and
teachers visit regularly. The lessons on
faith are well received. Have agreed to take
up a labor with those who neglect Sacra-
ment meetings.
	Song, “Star of Bethlehem,” by Pleasant
Grove Sisters.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon was pleased to
meet the sisters of Alpine Stake, and to see
them stand up at roll call. Our organization
is so perfect that we have no need to pass
over our local officers to go to the head for
advice on any ordinary subject or business.
Parents should know all about their chil-
dren, and their affairs. Make home pleasant,
and encourage them in their Church work
and to be obedient to their parents and to
the priesthood. It takes parents all their
time to keep peace and order in their fam-
lies. Liked to know that the Society in
the wards had means on hand to help in
any emergency that might need help.
	Sister Dusenberry had been away from
home for some time, and felt to appreciate
her home and her religion more and more,
and felt the worth of her own people. Spoke
of an instance where a gentleman who stood
in the meeting of the Saints in New York
testified of the influence exercised on him by
being in contact with two Mormon elders,
mere boys. The influence of the Mormon
elders is a great attraction for people not of
our faith. Related several incidents of her
travels and experience among outsiders and
those opposed to our principles. Realized
that it is the actions and example of a per-
son that influences the people more than
their words. It is our lives that count, our
words amount to nothing comparatively.
There are many good people in the world,
and though they may be careless now, in
due time the truth will dawn upon them
and they will know that the Mormons are
honest and sincere and that they seek the
welfare of the people.
	President Stephen L. Chipman felt grati-
fied in hearing the reports and testimonies.
Noticed that few of the young women are
connected with this Society. We want more
help and it is necessary that the younger
women should be getting the experience to
fill these positions. Spoke of the Relief So-
ciety grain, thought the granaries should be
examined and made sound and good for the
reception of the new wheat. Spoke of can-
vassers who are around deceiving the peo-
ple, and warned the sisters to be careful
what they sign their names to, for these
agents are not reliable and we should be on
our guard.
	Meeting closed by singing and Benedic-
tion. Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock.
	Afternoon Session. Conference reas-
sembled at 2 p. m. President Standring
presiding.
	After the opening exercises President M.
E. Abel reported American Fork, 3rd ward.
President C. Thorne reported Lindon. Ellen
Jones Lehi, 3rd ward
	The reports were gratifying. The poor
are fed, the sick visited and sisters always
ready to respond to the calls made upon
them.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon of the General
Board was glad to hear of the good spirit
that exists in this stake. We should try to
be as good Latter-day Saints as possible;
had seen the Prophet Joseph Smith when
she was a small girl. We have been taught

[Column 3]
and counseled to live upright lives, and
where we have followed the counsel of those
placed over us, we have come out all right.
We should try to appreciate our blessings,
and while we have the opportunity let us be
kind to each other and not wait until it is
too late. Let us try to do as well as we
know how. Mothers have great responsibi-
lities and also many opportunities to learn
the gospel and many things necessary to our
advancement. May the Lord be ever good
to us.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry. ‘‘I used
to think that Relief Society work was only
for the older sisters, but as I have traveled
and visited the stake conferences, I have de-
cided that it was for the younger ones as
well. God can take the humblest of His
children, and make of them an instrument
to do His will. Our experiences are our
education, and more especially if we have
eyes to see and ears to hear. How good and
just the Lord is, He has not said to some,
you may have the light, you may have the
flowers, you may have the sunshine, but has
given all these beauties of nature to all of
us. They are all ours to enjoy. Let us
keep good cheer for everyone, speak a kind
word and often that will lift a load from the
saoulders of our friends. The only way to
grow is by doing good to others. May the
Lord give you a spirit of love, sympathy and
progression”
	A solo was rendered by one of the sisters.
	Brother James H. Clarke of the Stake
Presidency. You sisters are not here be-
cause of time you have to spare, but you are
here to do your duty, and to partake of the
spirit and influence of this conference. Our
minds are drawn away from our every day-
labors for a few hours, and our spirits are
directed to our Heavenly Father who organ-
ized this Church for the benefit of His chil-
dren. The law of tithing is given for our
temporal as well as our spiritual salvation.
Some think that all they need to live for is
this life, but I think we should live with the
thought that this life is to fit us for a future
state. We are here at school to get experi-
ence to prepare us for our future life. Let
us attain to as high a sphere as we can, for
there is an eternity to follow this life. Make
the duties of the Church a pleasure. Make
the paying of tithing a pleasure. This will
strengthen our faith because of the blessings
our Father returns to us. Convert your-
selves, convert your husbands to this law,
for it is as much a principle of the gospel as
baptism. Great responsibilities rests upon
us as fathers and mothers. Let us be care-
ful of the children God has given us. Let
us help each other and be mutual in this.
As we grow stronger and do our duty day
by day we are saved.
	Bishop John R. Hindley was struck with
the remark of the sisters in giving the re-
ports that they loved the work and the du-
ities placed upon them in the Relief Society.
If we can do this we can become a great
help to others as well as to ourselves. Our
young sisters do not realize what they are
missing. The blessings cannot be ours un-
less we work for them. The temporal part 
of our lives are crowding out the spiritual
part. Let us give more attention to the spi-
ritual things that will be ours in the future.
	Bishop Lewis was delighted with the sen-
timents expressed by the speakers. “Seek
first the kingdom of God, and all other
things shall be added unto you.” I often
wonder whether we do this to the extent
that we should. “There is no excellence
without labor,” and the Relief Society sis-


ters are not afraid of labor. May each of us
profit by the teachings of this conference.
	Singing, Doxology. Benediction by Pre-
sident Standring.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
				E. J. T. ROBERTS,
							Cor. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
