The Family Picture Show
Ivie H. Jones
President, Spanish-American Mission Relief Society

MY Dear Aunt Martha:

I guess I really shouldn't address you as Aunt, but that's what Mother used to call you. Let's see, you must be a third cousin, but that's unimportant. You belong to the same family and have some Calkins blood in your veins, and that makes me proud of you, even though I have never seen you. And because you are a relative and the oldest hiring member of your side of the family, I am writing you this letter.

Under separate cover, we are mailing you quite a collection of photographs, snaps, and tintypes. I am sure you would wonder what on earth it was all about, if I did not write and explain the matter in advance. Last night we held our annual "Family Picture Show." It's an old idea of Mother's and has grown into quite an event in our family, and because it was Mother's original idea, we have held it on her birthday.

Sometimes it has been impossible for all of us to get together on that particular day, as we are quite scattered, but in that went we have held our own "Family Picture Show." Yesterday was Mother's birthday, the first one since she died, and all of us were together, quite a group, children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren. We met in the old home, and in spite of the fact that Mother and Daddy weren't there, it carried on according to the old custom.

We all had dinner together, then while the children played outside, we grownups checked our photographs, exchanged with each other, and then saw to it that every picture was identified by the names on the back in ink. I can just hear Mother say, "Upon my word, it makes me sick the way some folks spend good money for pictures and then never take the time to identify them. Then when the old folks die, the pictures mean nothing to the children, so into the wastebasket they go."

Mother and Daddy were always proud of our family, from the ancestors to the great-grandchildren, and they wanted all of us to know our relatives when we saw them. The "Family Hour" that followed was choice, for it offered opportunity for our different families to present their talents in song, original composition, and verse. And the climax of the evening was our "Family Picture Show."

We have a toy projector that Mother and Daddy bought for us one Christmas, it must have been twenty-five years ago. It cost only five dollars, but it has certainly been worth many times that amount to us. It is a simple little projector, quipped with two electric lights and mirrors inside, and we just slip the pictures in, upside down, and they are reflected on a screen or wall — and in color, too.

It is surprising how even our little tots know their great-grandparents, their aunts and uncles, and even their cousins, when their pictures are thrown on the screen. I am sure that I would know you if I should ever see you on the street, even though I have never actually seen you in my life.

Yesterday afternoon we found a lot of pictures of your side of the family that we thought would mean more to you than they do to us. However, if you already have copies of them, we would be glad to have them back. There is one tintyped marked "Cristina" that I am especially interested in. Perhaps it is because my full name is Page 622 THE FAMILY PICTURE SHOW 623 Anna Cristine, but I have always been called just "Ann." Or perhaps I am interested in the picture because there is a bit of mystery connected with it.

I have asked Mother about this tintype many times, only to be put off. Once I asked her why she didn't add the maiden name, or married name, that is, if this Cristina was ever married. But Mother merely said, "No, my dear, Cristina signed her own name on the picture and that's enough. I know who she was and you children don't know her anyway."

Still not satisfied, I pressed the matter further, only to be told that Cristina died when her first baby was born and the second wife did such a marvelous job of caring for her baby that the family decided not to tell her who her real mother was. "Put the tintype back in the drawer," Mother said, "I will be going to Utah sometime and I will find out if the daughter knows. I have never asked, and no one has ever said."

Once Mother did, however, write something on the bottom of the picture, and yesterday we used a magnifying glass and made out the name of Cristina's parents. Maybe you will know where she fits into the family, or perhaps she is just a dear friend of Mother's.

Please excuse this lengthy letter, and if you do not know to whom the tintype picture belongs, return it to me, as I would like to keep it.

Lots of love to all.

Your cousin, Ann: Your letter and the pictures came several days ago, but I have been too excited to write. The children and grandchildren are all coming over for my birthday today and we are having our first "Family Picture Show." Many thanks for the idea. Lots of love. Aunt Martha

P.S. Yes, I know who this Christine is, and the tintype is worth the world to me. She was an orphan girl from Norway. She joined the Church, and the rest of the family disowned her. Later, she came to Utah and married and had one daughter. We have spent a great deal of money trying to discover her parents. I am so glad that your mother wrote on the picture before she died, "Daughter of Tildy and Hans Nielson." Thanks a million, Ann, that's my mother.

WINDS OF FEAR
C. Cameron Johns

Winds of fear are blowing through the night
That the windbreaks of the heart cannot abate.
With subtle infiltrations, they would kill
The tendrils of our hope, regenerate.
Only barricades within the soul
Of ancient kindnesses withhold their blight.
Only love's assurance can resist
The winds of fear that blow across the night.

Notes from the field
Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer

All materials submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274.

Handicraft, Socials, and Other Activities
Photograph submitted by Orlene L. Henrie

GUNNISON STAKE (UTAH), MAYFIELD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR March 1948
Left to right: Secretary Elva Swallow; work leader Fern L. Hansen; President Alice M. Hansen; Second Counselor Ruth J. Jensen; First Counselor Violet T. Reynolds.
The articles for this bazaar were very beautifully made, with particular care being given to details of trimming and finishing. Note the artistic and effective method of arranging the displays. Of unusual interest were the attractive sofa pillows, doilies, quilts, aprons, and children's clothing.
Orlene L. Henrie is president of Gunnison Stake Relief Society.

Page 624
Notes from the field 625

Photograph submitted by Ida L. Hatch

SNOWFLAKE STAKE (ARIZONA), HOLBROOK WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 1948
At table, left to right: Ellen McLaws; Mildred Kinnison; Lila Standifird; Evaline Palmer; Ruth Hunt; Zelma Stradling; Ruth Richards; Alice Young; Laura H. Smithson.
Standing, left to right: Myrtle Brown; Maude J. DeWitt; LaWanda Slade; Elva Shelley; Emma Hunsaker; Mildred McLaws; Ellen Cooley; Blanche Hatch; Rhoana Crowther; Martha DeWitt; Alice Powell; Rosalind Nez-Bah; Edna Gillispie.

Note the beautifully decorated cake and the unusual arrangement of the curled ribbons.
Photograph submitted by Thora Ulrich

MORGAN STAKE (UTAH), RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND WARD LEADERS ASSEMBLED AT A RECEPTION, September 27, 1947
Front row, left to right, stake board members: Dorothy Bertoch, work director; Eva Jensen, Second Counselor; Margaret Thackeray, President; Genevieve Dickson, First Counselor; Thora Ulrich, Secretary-Treasurer, Evadna Francis, literature leader.
Second row, left to right: Elizabeth Hansen, President, Slide Ward; Ann Larsen, President, Morgan Ward; Ireta Jensen, President, Milton Ward; Marie Turner, visiting teachers class leader, Morgan Stake; Dora Rich, President, Richville Ward; Elsie Porter, President, Porterville Ward; Lydia Parkinson, President, North Morgan Ward; Rachel Crouch, President, Croydon Ward.
Members of the stake Relief Society board and all ward presidents were in the receiving line to greet the guests as they arrived. They were then ushered into the display room to view the completed Welfare sewing exhibit and were later entertained with a musical program and served with light refreshments.

626
Photograph submitted by Grace E. Allphin

BIG HORN STAKE (WYOMING), WORLAND BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY
Members
Front row, seated, left to right: Elsie Sprague; Clara Gheen; Second Counselor Zella Averette; Secretary-Treasurer, Geneva Roberts; President Virginia Kirnsy; First Counselor Wanda Roberts; Marian Nielson.
Back row, standing, left to right: Maggie Tolerman; Sylvia Nielson; Ora Cannon; Maggie Bameo; Thelma Sprague; Ludina Whitlock; Josephine Porter; Mary Tippetts; Wanda Asay; Carma Cowley; Daisy Nissen.

Among the many outstanding accomplishments of this Relief Society (28 members), was the completing of the Relief Society building fund quota, the first organization in Big Horn Stake to make this accomplishment.
Grace E. Allphin is former president of Big Horn Stake Relief Society; Amelia H. Robertson is the new president.

Photograph submitted by Martha W. Brown

CENTRAL STATES MISSION, INDEPENDENCE BRANCH (MISSOURI), COMMEMORATES RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY
Mission Home, Independence, Missouri, March 1948
Martha W. Brown, President, Central States Mission Relief Society; Margaret Tuckfield, theology leader; Emily Smith Stewart, daughter of President George Albert Smith; Bertha A. Hulme, great-granddaughter of the Prophet Joseph Smith; Martha Stewart, daughter of Emily Smith Stewart; Alta Moyle, literature leader, and wife of the former president of the Kansas City Branch; May W. Berry, wife of Dr. H. A. Berry, First Counselor to President Francis W. Brown.
Standing at the back, fourth from the left, Cloe E. Pope, President, Independence Branch Relief Society.

Notes from the field 627

Photograph submitted by Vivian W. Jensen

OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), THIRTY-FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BIRTHDAY PARTY HONORS THE VISITING TEACHERS, March 17, 1948
This unique entertainment honored the visiting teachers who had completed a 100% teaching record for the preceding eighteen months. A delicious hot dinner was served and corsages were presented to the teacher with the longest record of service: Sister Margareta Hadley, for thirty-five years a visiting teacher; the oldest visiting teacher, Sister Fannie Evans, age eighty-one; the youngest visiting teacher, Sister Mary Cartuth, a bride of last summer. The Stake Relief Society President Cleona W. Hedenstrom presented the sisters an award for being the first in Ogden Stake to achieve their 100% building quota $705 for 141 memberships.
Officers of the Thirty-first Ward Relief Society are: President Lottie Holt; First Counselor Mary Perkins; Second Counselor Vivian W. Jensen.

Photograph submitted by Ethel Hurlburt

PORTLAND STAKE (OREGON), COLONIAL HEIGHTS WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS WHO MADE 1,287 CALLS IN 1947
Photograph taken May 2, 1948
Front row, left to right: Josephine Olson; Susan Gray; Ethel Hurlburt, Secretary-Treasurer; Vesta Webster, First Counselor; Mima Hainsworth, President; Della Davis, Second Counselor.
Fourth row, left to right: Marguerite Craner; Olive Murray; Vera Remington; Aileen Oldroyd; Laura Ross.

Photograph submitted by Leona McCarrey

Benson Stake (Utah), VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE GIVEN MORE THAN FORTY YEARS OF SERVICE TO RELIEF SOCIETY
Seated, left to right: Lavina Poulsen, Lewiston First Ward; Christensia Hanson, Trenton; Martha Coley, Richmond South Ward; Martha A. Lewis, Richmond; Sarah Snelgrove, Richmond.
Standing, left to right: Lydia Leavitt, Lewiston First Ward; Estelle Blair, Lewiston Third Ward; Sarah Preece, Cove Ward; Susie Allen, Cove Ward; Lavinia Wilcox, Cove Ward; Clara Wheeler, Trenton.

Leona McCarrey is president of Benson Stake Relief Society.

Photograph submitted by Mabel B. Blackwell

WEBER STAKE (UTAH), OGDEN NINETEENTH WARD PROGRAM "BUILDERS FOR ETERNITY," March 30, 1948
Seated, left to right: Elizabeth Wilson; Mary Smith Carr; Mary Burt.
Standing, left to right: Mary Potter; Edith Barker, organist; Elda Hurd, chorister; Jessie Burton, accompanist for Singing Mothers; Grace Gledhill, Secretary; Ethel Anderson, First Counselor; Mabel Blackwell, President; Alta Weaver, Second Counselor; Olga Thompson.

At this program each person was presented with a card on which was a drawing of the proposed Relief Society building, done in blue and gold. Adding color and interest to the program were members dressed in costume, representing some of the noble women identified with early-day Relief Society work. Ada Lindquist is president of Weber Stake Relief Society.

NOTES FROM THE FIELD 629

Photograph submitted by Hilda E. Perkins
OAKLAND STAKE (CALIFORNIA), OAKLAND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS WHO CONDUCTED A SPECIAL "FIFTH-TUESDAY HOUR," March 23, 1948
Left to right: Second Counselor Bernice Kramer; Secretary-Treasurer Lisbeth Witt; Stake Relief Society President Hilda E. Perkins; Ward President La Verne M. Pennock; First Counselor Dorothy E. Brown.
On this unique and enjoyable occasion Oakland Ward was host to the entire Oakland Stake Relief Societies, with about 200 sisters being present. Special musical numbers were rendered and Verna Mae Feuerhelm, world traveler, gave a most enlightening lecture on foreign problems. The Relief Society room was decorated very attractively, and there were trays of beautifully arranged homemade cookies.
Photograph submitted by Lily M. Ward

CEDAR STAKE (UTAH), CEDAR CITY FIFTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS WHO ACHIEVED A 100% RECORD FOR TWENTY MONTHS
First row, left to right: Rosa B. Lawrence; Olive Knell; Ramola Smith, Secretary; Annie Esplin, Second Counselor; Genevieve Melling, First Counselor; Elvina Wiatrowski, President; Lauretta Perry, supervisor and visiting teachers messages leader; Thurza Little, Parowan Stake visiting teachers leader; Caroline Jordan.
Second row, left to right: Emily Lamoreaux; Fay Slack; Locky Stratton; Lottie Bladen; Harriet M. Hunter; Beth Ence; Viola Bauer; Theresa Peterson; Thelma Ashdown; Thelma Melling.
Back row, left to right: Grace Snow; Carol Draper; Elaine Jones; Beverly Carlson; Iris Corry; Lula Rollo; Gwen Corry; Agnes Knight; Henrietta Leigh.
This ward was the second in the stake to achieve its 100% building fund quota, and attained the 1947 honor roll on magazine subscriptions.

Photograph submitted by Zelma P. Beardall
KOLOB STAKE (UTAH), SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED FOR THEIR CONCERT, March 17, 1948
Standing in front of pulpit, left to right: Helen R. Crandall, First Counselor; Mary H. Weight, chorister; Zelma P. Beardall, President.
Seated at the left of the pulpit, Margery Bird, organist.
The numbers presented at this concert were exceptionally beautiful and the readings given by Second Counselor Ethel Jensen and Merel Schreiner added variety and enjoyment to the concert. Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen of the Relief Society general board and her husband, Dr. Franklin Madsen, were special guests for the occasion. One of the selections "Entrancing Night" was composed by Sister Madsen.
Photograph submitted by Helen Martin

BRITISH MISSION (SCOTTISH DISTRICT), GLASGOW BRANCH, RELIEF SOCIETY BIRTHDAY PARTY, March 1948
Seated at the party table, left to right: Helen Martin, President, Glasgow Branch Relief Society; Jean Junor; Sister Leslie, wife of the branch president; Margaret Thomson McQueen.
Sister Martin writes: "Our Relief Society birthday party has come and gone. Branch President Leslie is a baker and confectioner, so we saved our rations and helped him with the ingredients for the cake. It really was beautiful, more like a bride's cake. The picture on top of the cake was made in sugar, representing the first house in which the Relief Society was held, copied from a picture which the elders gave Brother Leslie.
It was a lovely table, well worth the sacrifice of our rations.
Our Relief Society had a show of work and sale on April 17th, with a concert following. It was a great success. The hand-knitted articles made and donated by members and friends brought in around $100. That is very good for our small branch (9 members)."
Photograph submitted by Elna P. Haymond

NORTHERN STATES MISSION, AKRON BRANCH (OHIO), RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, November 29, 1947
Front row, seated, left to right: Gladys Reed; Dolly Lusk; Leona Walker; Kathleen Lamphier; Agnes Murray; Francis Cunningham, Second Counselor; Teresa Losee; Averill Ramsey.
Second row, standing, left to right: President Veda K. Dittmer; Mary Wagoner; Ella Darrow; Anita Bartley; Cora Huff; Elizabeth Weaver; Betty R. Mosley; Gaynell Newbaur; Nina Poister; Ida Cochran; Grace Autold; Lucile Jones; Garnet Leonard.
Third row, standing, left to right: First Counselor Ila Trease; Hattie Nichols; Secretary Edna Grover; Virgie Meredith; Evelyn Tuttle.
Sister Elna P. Haymond, President, Northern States Mission Relief Society, reports the Akron Branch as making unusually rapid progress under Sister Dittmer's capable direction.
"The members," Sister Haymond writes, "have worked hard and overcome much to gain the standing and strength they have. Their number has grown from five to twenty-six."
The Constitution of the United States and Religious Liberty (Continued on page 581)

Is the Sermon on the Mount obsolete because it was delivered almost 2,000 years ago? Have 300 years made obsolete the drama of Shakespeare, or has it been made obsolete by the modern discovery of the silver screen? Have 170 years made obsolete man's love for liberty? Have the years made obsolete man's burning desire to worship God according to the dictates of his own conscience?
The Constitution of the United States is the greatest charter of religious liberty ever written. It will never become obsolete so long as men love democracy more than despotism, liberty more than bondage, God more than the paganism of unbelief.

The Art of Beautiful Tone Quality in Singing
PART II

Florence J. Madsen
Member, Relief Society General Board

The language of tones belongs equally to all mankind, and melody is the absolute language in which the musician speaks to every heart (Richard Wagner).

The Laws of Acoustics

BEAUTY of tone is dependent upon the presence of overtones with their fundamentals. To insure the proper predominance of these essential elements the singer must observe the laws of acoustics.
Some of these are:
(a) The motion of the vibrating column must be regular and unobstructed.
(b) The vibrations must be focused in the direction of, and into all possible open cavities for amplification.
(c) There must be no localization of tone in any one cavity, but equal activity to the exclusion of the others. All the cavities of the head and bones of the face are vocal resonators and, therefore, must be used in speaking and in singing.

Listening
Nature has given to men one tongue, but two ears, that we may hear from others twice as much as we speak (Epictetus).
While listening to music one should be so intent upon what he hears that he can recall, at will, the tone quality he has heard, for comparison with other tonal experiences that he might have.

Imitating
One of the most effective means of learning is that of imitating. This fact is voiced by Weiss in the following statement: "Imitation forms our manners, our opinions, our very lives." Imitation also leads to spontaneous originality. This is strongly asserted by Voltaire as follows: "A good imitation is the most perfect originality."
In order to acquire perfect tone quality one must, therefore, imitate the perfect in tonal art.

Reasoning
Reasoning is the cornerstone of all sound thinking.

It is basically essential to a full understanding of beautiful tone quality. Such reasoning should include, at least, the following facts:
(a) To become an aesthetic singer is a distinctive achievement.
(b) To produce beautiful tones one must first submerge his preconceived notions of tone to the more ideal type of tonal quality as heard in the singing of artists.
(c) The characteristics and mechanics of beautiful tones of the arts can be understood only in proportion as they are unfolded and applied in sincere efforts to sing.
(d) Tone quality can be improved only as far as faults are overcome and proper habits established.
It should be remembered that, as Gilpin says, ". . . Good habits are formed by acts of reason. . . ."
LESSON Department Theology The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 11 "He Spake Many Things Unto Them In Parables" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, Chapter 19, by Elder James E. Talmage) For Tuesday, December 7, 1948 Objective: To create a desire to study and understand the gospel of the kingdom. Note: All quotations which are not followed by references are taken from the text Jesus the Christ.
During the early part of his ministry Jesus was popular. In fact, frequently the multitudes surrounding him were so large they would impede his progress. Because of these large crowds, he found it difficult at times to speak to the multitudes. He, therefore, devised the plan of going to the seashore and having his disciples provide a "small ship" which was kept in readiness for him and in which he sat down and spoke to the crowds. The boat would be anchored a short distance from the shore. It was during one of these meetings at the water's edge that he adopted the method of explaining his talks by using parables.
All students admit that the Savior was the Master Teacher of the world. In teaching, he followed no definite plan or method. He drew his examples from nature. He would see a sower at work in a field, a fox running across his path, a woman at a well, and each would provide him a story to illustrate his doctrine. The things of nature were his own creations and, of course, he knew how to use them to the best advantage.
"A Sower Went Forth to Sow"
The parable of the sower was probably the first parable used by the Savior in teaching. Everyone is familiar with this parable, but there are many who contend that it should, in reality, be called the parable of the soil. The story is as follows:
And when he sowed, some seeds fell by the way side, and the fowls came and devoured them up: Some fell upon stony places, where they had not much earth: and forthwith they sprung up, because they had no deepness of earth: And when the sun was up, they were scorched; and because they had no root, they withered away. And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprung up, and choked them: But others fell into good ground, and brought forth fruit, some an hundredfold, some sixtyfold, some thirtyfold.
Who hath ears to hear, let him hear (Matt. 13:4-9).
This method of teaching was a new one even to the disciples and was a departure from the Savior's earlier method. He, therefore, gave an interpretation to this parable. In brief, his interpretation was as follows:
Hear ye therefore the parable of the sower. When any one heareth the word of the kingdom, and understandeth it not, then cometh the wicked one, and catcheth away that which was sown in his heart. This is he which received seed by the way side. But he that received the seed into stony places, the same is he that heareth the word, and anon with joy receiveth it; Yet hath he not root in himself, but dureth for a while: for when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word, by and by he is offended. He also that received seed among the thorns is he that heareth the word; and the care of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, choke the word, and he becometh unfruitful. But he that received seed into the good ground is he that heareth the word, and understandeth it; which also beareth fruit, and bringeth forth, some an hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty (Matt. 13:18-23).
Space will not permit the giving in full of all of the Savior's parables. The parable of the sower is given as an example. All of the parables of the New Testament may be studied with great profit. They are masterpieces of beautiful and effective literature. Only a few salient features will be given here.
Above all we should notice that the Savior had prepared well for his listeners. He was the sower. However, the parable would apply to any authorized servant of the Lord. "The seed is the word of God." He described four grades of soil. First, the compacted roof or highway made by people and hindered animals walking along or over it. It was natural for those near these highways even to cross fields which had been sown to grain. Second: the shallow soil, underlaid by rock, would sustain the sprouting plant only for a short time, after which it would wither and die. Third: the soil upon which weed seed had been sown. Ground otherwise capable of producing a crop would not yield because of the thickness of thistles and thorns. Fourth and last: the fertile soils which would yield an increase of thirty, sixty, or even an hundredfold.
It is interesting to note that the thorns which spring up in the poor grade of soil to choke the word of God are the care of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches." In good soil, the teacher sows the seeds of truth with anticipation and enthusiasm, knowing that there will be a harvest; perhaps not the expected harvest, but still thirtyfold if not an hundredfold" (Dr. Carl F. Eyring-Good Tidings to All People). Even Jesus was limited by the soil. Let teachers learn to prepare well the soil.
The Wheat and the Tares
Another of the Master's great parables was the one about the wheat and the tares. (Matt. 13:24-30; 36-43) Here Jesus changes and has the seed represent the children of men. The good seed typifies the honest in heart and the righteous in the kingdom of God, while the tares are the evil minded and those who keep not the commandments of the Lord. The Master's servants wanted to immediately pull them up, but were told it could not be done without great destruction of the precious grain. The disciples were taught a lesson of patience, tolerance, and forbearance. They were assured that a time would come when there would be a separation and the tares would be burned. The time and manner were to be left to the Lord.
The Lord, speaking to Joseph Smith in 1832, referred to this parable (D. & C. 86:4-7). It is suggested that the entire section be read.

The Mustard Seed
The application made in the parable of the mustard seed was entirely in terms, for the children of Israel had long looked forward to the coming in great glory of the Messiah. It startled them to hear its beginning compared with a mustard seed. However, the use of the mustard plant for food was common among the Jews. In Palestine the mustard plant attains a largeness in comparison with time than it does in the northerly climes. The lesson of the parable is relatively easy to learn. "... the seed of truth is vital, living, and capable of such development as to furnish spiritual food and shelter to all who come seeking." The size of the kingdom to be was not to be judged because it had a small beginning.

The Leaven
The parable of the leaven is quoted frequently. It is easily understood. Like the one last considered, it typifies the vitality and inherent power to grow. Yeast diffuses itself throughout a lifeless lump and changes the flour to a buoyant mass of dough. The truths of the gospel have the power within themselves when understood, to leaven the whole lump of humanity. Both the leaven in the flour and the spread of truth are sometimes slow in action but they work quietly and effectively.

A. Perry Picture Hofmann
CHRIST TEACHING FROM A BOAT

While the leaven symbolizes truth, it must be remembered that the same thing, in different aspects, may be used to represent evil. Evil power may also permeate or "leaven" the whole lump.

The Hidden Treasure
The parable of the hidden treasure is recorded only by Matthew (13:44). The critic has often said that it was not honest for the finder to conceal the discovery of the treasure from the owner of the field. We may be assured that Jesus would not commend a dishonest act. The finder followed the Jewish law and all that was done was in accordance with the law of the day. Let us remember, also, that in the parabolic teaching of the day, little attention was given to what might be called the trappings, or outward forms. Certainly no one would, or did consider these trappings as an integral part of the story.

The happy man who found the treasure sold all he possessed and gave up everything gladly in order that he might purchase the field. The Master taught by this illustration that when once the treasure of the kingdom is found, the finder should lose no time nor shrink from any sacrifice needful to insure his title thereto.

The Pearl of Great Price
The parable of the pearl of great price should be carefully studied (Matt. 13:45-46). Of course, the pearl is used to represent great value. The merchant was seeking goodly pearls.

When he found one which excelled all others, he sacrificed all he had to obtain it; it was the pearl of great price. The pearl represents truth. When it is found, no price is too great for its possession. No one can truly become a citizen of the kingdom who is unwilling to surrender all for that citizenship. "The amount each person must pay depends on how much is 'his all.' That only is a sufficient price."

Latter-day Saints have a great heritage. Their pioneer forebears gave their all for the "pearl of great prices."

The Gospel Net
Dr. John A. Widtsoe, in his book The Gospel Net, gives pathos and meaning to the parable of the same name. The gospel of the kingdom has been preached in many lands. It has gathered into its folds good and bad people, mostly good. Often the sorting does not take place until the people have gathered in Zion, and it may not be completely done there. The great "Fisher of Men" will make the final sorting eventually. The just and the unjust will be separated, and each given a reward according to merit.

Questions and Suggestions for Discussion
1. State why you think Jesus was a great teacher. From what source did he draw his great examples to illustrate his teaching?
2. Relate the parable of the sower and tell why it is sometimes called the parable of the soil.
3. Describe the parable of the wheat and the tares. What was the lesson taught by it?
4. If a copy of the book The Gospel Net is available, have someone tell briefly the story of the conversion of the mother of Dr. John A. Widtsoe.

LESSON DEPARTMENT 637
Visiting Teachers Messages
Our Savior Speaks Lesson 3 "Inasmuch as Ye Have Done It Unto One of the Least of These My Brethren, Ye Have Done It unto Me"
Elder H. Wayne Driggs

For Tuesday, December 7, 1948
Objective: To reaffirm what constitutes the true spirit of giving.

Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world; For I was an hungered, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger and ye took me in: Naked and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me. Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord when saw we thee an hungered, and fed thee? Or thirsty, and gave thee drink? When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? Or naked, and clothed thee? Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee? And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me (Matt. 25:34-40).

In essence, is thought of as being temporal rather than spiritual. Most of us are earth-drawn throughout the majority of our living days. We seek learning, work, position, and favor among our fellow men. In our struggle to attain these, we find passing satisfaction in the material things of the world. But there are greater things than these which make the material gains of life of secondary importance. The important values are the joys of the spirit. These come from the perfect service of feeding the Master's sheep.

It is said by modern teachers that if someone holds a grudge against you, and you can get that person to do you a favor, his enmity will disappear for we cannot dislike one to whom we do good. Is it not true that one reason for the love of parents for their children is that they minister lovingly to the needs of their offspring? How then can we demonstrate our love for our Savior whom we cannot meet face to face? By obeying the first great commandment and the second which is like unto it: by loving our neighbors as ourselves. Then we shall better understand that the Lord who so loved each of us that he suffered death that we might live, accepts the service we give any of our brethren as being given to him.

What a great opportunity our Church affords us to give such service through accepting calls to work in any capacity. "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me" (Matthew 25:40). 

Work Meeting Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 3 Making Women's Wear from Men's Wear Jean Ridges Jennings

For Tuesday, December 14, 1948

N most cases the wool used in men's suits, if it is of good quality, is far sturdier and more durable than that available in stores for women's clothing. Even after it has been discarded as shabby or worn out, the average man's suit offers unusual opportunities for making-over, because of the excellence of its texture and quality. The worn parts are usually found in places where they can be ignored when making over the man's suit into one for a woman. Such parts as sleeve edges, plackets, trouser seat, and cuffs can all be cut away without interfering with a woman's suit. When making a man's suit over into a street suit for yourself, it is usually necessary to shorten the sleeves, which does away with the worn part, and it is unnecessary to use the upper part of the trousers which eliminates those worn parts. The legs of the trousers are turned upside down to make the skirt, bringing any weak spots toward the hem and also allowing a little flare at the bottom. Fit the coat to your proportions. Make the shoulders narrower with a center dart tapered to the bustline in front. Narrow the neckline at the center back seams of coat and collar. Adjust the hip and waistline with a dart taken from the coat hem to under the bust, being sure it is in line with the shoulder dart. The side seams can be fitted as needed according to the lines of the figure. Sleeves can be taken in as needed, tapering them to match the underarm seams and the armhole. Shorten as necessary.

Using the upper part of the trousers for the bottom, make a four-gored skirt. The new longer length can be obtained by making a fitted yoke for the top of the skirt from the unused top of the trousers or from the vest. When the man's suit is too faded or shabby to use on the right side, tip the suit to pieces, clean and remake using the wrong side of the fabric for the right side of your suit. The entire suit will need to be recut, using a commercial pattern.

On most women the pockets in a man's coat come rather low. If they are patch pockets, they can be raised. If bound or flap pockets, a patch pocket can be set over them at a higher more becoming level. An attractive lady's suit can be made by cutting the coat short to just below the waistline thus avoiding the pockets entirely. For this model the collar can be eliminated and a plain fitted neckline used instead. If the suit is striped, many clever effects can be devised as trimming by reversing the stripes in bands, pockets, yokes, etc.

Last, but not least, the man's coat could be easily made into a bolero.

Shop the easy way at Sears convenient
CATALOG SALES DEPT.
It's easy, economical to shop at Sears Catalog Order Desk for hundreds of items unobtainable in retail stores. No money order fees . . . and if you pick up your order at the Catalog Sales store you pay no C.O.D. fee.

Main or State at 9th South Salt Lake City Park Free
SEARS