The Family Picture Show
Ivie H. Jones
President, Spanish-American Mission Relief Society

MY Dear Aunt Martha:

I guess I really shouldn't address you as Aunt, but that's what Mother used to call you. Let's see, you must be a third cousin, but that's unimportant. You belong to the same family and have some Calkins blood in your veins, and that makes me proud of you, even though I have never seen you. And because you are a relative and the oldest hiring member of your side of the family, I am writing you this letter.

Under separate cover, we are mailing you quite a collection of photographs, snaps, and tintypes. I am sure you would wonder what on earth it was all about, if I did not write and explain the matter in advance. Last night we held our annual "Family Picture Show." It's an old idea of Mother's and has grown into quite an event in our family, and because it was Mother's original idea, we have held it on her birthday.

Sometimes it has been impossible for all of us to get together on that particular day, as we are quite scattered, but in that went we have held our own "Family Picture Show." Yesterday was Mother's birthday, the first one since she died, and all of us were together, quite a group, children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren. We met in the old home, and in spite of the fact that Mother and Daddy weren't there, it carried on according to the old custom.

We all had dinner together, then while the children played outside, we grownups checked our photographs, exchanged with each other, and then saw to it that every picture was identified by the names on the back in ink. I can just hear Mother say, "Upon my word, it makes me sick the way some folks spend good money for pictures and then never take the time to identify them. Then when the old folks die, the pictures mean nothing to the children, so into the wastebasket they go."

Mother and Daddy were always proud of our family, from the ancestors to the great-grandchildren, and they wanted all of us to know our relatives when we saw them. The "Family Hour" that followed was choice, for it offered opportunity for our different families to present their talents in song, original composition, and verse. And the climax of the evening was our "Family Picture Show."

We have a toy projector that Mother and Daddy bought for us one Christmas, it must have been twenty-five years ago. It cost only five dollars, but it has certainly been worth many times that amount to us. It is a simple little projector, quipped with two electric lights and mirrors inside, and we just slip the pictures in, upside down, and they are reflected on a screen or wall — and in color, too.

It is surprising how even our little tots know their great-grandparents, their aunts and uncles, and even their cousins, when their pictures are thrown on the screen. I am sure that I would know you if I should ever see you on the street, even though I have never actually seen you in my life.

Yesterday afternoon we found a lot of pictures of your side of the family that we thought would mean more to you than they do to us. However, if you already have copies of them, we would be glad to have them back. There is one tintyped marked "Cristina" that I am especially interested in. Perhaps it is because my full name is Page 622 THE FAMILY PICTURE SHOW 623 Anna Cristine, but I have always been called just "Ann." Or perhaps I am interested in the picture because there is a bit of mystery connected with it.

I have asked Mother about this tintype many times, only to be put off. Once I asked her why she didn't add the maiden name, or married name, that is, if this Cristina was ever married. But Mother merely said, "No, my dear, Cristina signed her own name on the picture and that's enough. I know who she was and you children don't know her anyway."

Still not satisfied, I pressed the matter further, only to be told that Cristina died when her first baby was born and the second wife did such a marvelous job of caring for her baby that the family decided not to tell her who her real mother was. "Put the tintype back in the drawer," Mother said, "I will be going to Utah sometime and I will find out if the daughter knows. I have never asked, and no one has ever said."

Once Mother did, however, write something on the bottom of the picture, and yesterday we used a magnifying glass and made out the name of Cristina's parents. Maybe you will know where she fits into the family, or perhaps she is just a dear friend of Mother's.

Please excuse this lengthy letter, and if you do not know to whom the tintype picture belongs, return it to me, as I would like to keep it.

Lots of love to all.

Your cousin, Ann: Your letter and the pictures came several days ago, but I have been too excited to write. The children and grandchildren are all coming over for my birthday today and we are having our first "Family Picture Show." Many thanks for the idea. Lots of love. Aunt Martha

P.S. Yes, I know who this Christine is, and the tintype is worth the world to me. She was an orphan girl from Norway. She joined the Church, and the rest of the family disowned her. Later, she came to Utah and married and had one daughter. We have spent a great deal of money trying to discover her parents. I am so glad that your mother wrote on the picture before she died, "Daughter of Tildy and Hans Nielson." Thanks a million, Ann, that's my mother.

WINDS OF FEAR
C. Cameron Johns

Winds of fear are blowing through the night
That the windbreaks of the heart cannot abate.
With subtle infiltrations, they would kill
The tendrils of our hope, regenerate.
Only barricades within the soul
Of ancient kindnesses withhold their blight.
Only love's assurance can resist
The winds of fear that blow across the night.

Notes from the field
Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer

All materials submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" in the Magazine for April 1948, page 274.

Handicraft, Socials, and Other Activities
Photograph submitted by Orlene L. Henrie

GUNNISON STAKE (UTAH), MAYFIELD WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR March 1948
Left to right: Secretary Elva Swallow; work leader Fern L. Hansen; President Alice M. Hansen; Second Counselor Ruth J. Jensen; First Counselor Violet T. Reynolds.
The articles for this bazaar were very beautifully made, with particular care being given to details of trimming and finishing. Note the artistic and effective method of arranging the displays. Of unusual interest were the attractive sofa pillows, doilies, quilts, aprons, and children's clothing.
Orlene L. Henrie is president of Gunnison Stake Relief Society.

Page 624
Notes from the field 625

Photograph submitted by Ida L. Hatch

SNOWFLAKE STAKE (ARIZONA), HOLBROOK WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 1948
At table, left to right: Ellen McLaws; Mildred Kinnison; Lila Standifird; Evaline Palmer; Ruth Hunt; Zelma Stradling; Ruth Richards; Alice Young; Laura H. Smithson.
Standing, left to right: Myrtle Brown; Maude J. DeWitt; LaWanda Slade; Elva Shelley; Emma Hunsaker; Mildred McLaws; Ellen Cooley; Blanche Hatch; Rhoana Crowther; Martha DeWitt; Alice Powell; Rosalind Nez-Bah; Edna Gillispie.

Note the beautifully decorated cake and the unusual arrangement of the curled ribbons.
Photograph submitted by Thora Ulrich

MORGAN STAKE (UTAH), RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS AND WARD LEADERS ASSEMBLED AT A RECEPTION, September 27, 1947
Front row, left to right, stake board members: Dorothy Bertoch, work director; Eva Jensen, Second Counselor; Margaret Thackeray, President; Genevieve Dickson, First Counselor; Thora Ulrich, Secretary-Treasurer, Evadna Francis, literature leader.
Second row, left to right: Elizabeth Hansen, President, Slide Ward; Ann Larsen, President, Morgan Ward; Ireta Jensen, President, Milton Ward; Marie Turner, visiting teachers class leader, Morgan Stake; Dora Rich, President, Richville Ward; Elsie Porter, President, Porterville Ward; Lydia Parkinson, President, North Morgan Ward; Rachel Crouch, President, Croydon Ward.
Members of the stake Relief Society board and all ward presidents were in the receiving line to greet the guests as they arrived. They were then ushered into the display room to view the completed Welfare sewing exhibit and were later entertained with a musical program and served with light refreshments.

626
Photograph submitted by Grace E. Allphin

BIG HORN STAKE (WYOMING), WORLAND BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY
Members
Front row, seated, left to right: Elsie Sprague; Clara Gheen; Second Counselor Zella Averette; Secretary-Treasurer, Geneva Roberts; President Virginia Kirnsy; First Counselor Wanda Roberts; Marian Nielson.
Back row, standing, left to right: Maggie Tolerman; Sylvia Nielson; Ora Cannon; Maggie Bameo; Thelma Sprague; Ludina Whitlock; Josephine Porter; Mary Tippetts; Wanda Asay; Carma Cowley; Daisy Nissen.

Among the many outstanding accomplishments of this Relief Society (28 members), was the completing of the Relief Society building fund quota, the first organization in Big Horn Stake to make this accomplishment.
Grace E. Allphin is former president of Big Horn Stake Relief Society; Amelia H. Robertson is the new president.

Photograph submitted by Martha W. Brown

CENTRAL STATES MISSION, INDEPENDENCE BRANCH (MISSOURI), COMMEMORATES RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY
Mission Home, Independence, Missouri, March 1948
Martha W. Brown, President, Central States Mission Relief Society; Margaret Tuckfield, theology leader; Emily Smith Stewart, daughter of President George Albert Smith; Bertha A. Hulme, great-granddaughter of the Prophet Joseph Smith; Martha Stewart, daughter of Emily Smith Stewart; Alta Moyle, literature leader, and wife of the former president of the Kansas City Branch; May W. Berry, wife of Dr. H. A. Berry, First Counselor to President Francis W. Brown.
Standing at the back, fourth from the left, Cloe E. Pope, President, Independence Branch Relief Society.

Notes from the field 627

Photograph submitted by Vivian W. Jensen

OGDEN STAKE (UTAH), THIRTY-FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY BIRTHDAY PARTY HONORS THE VISITING TEACHERS, March 17, 1948
This unique entertainment honored the visiting teachers who had completed a 100% teaching record for the preceding eighteen months. A delicious hot dinner was served and corsages were presented to the teacher with the longest record of service: Sister Margareta Hadley, for thirty-five years a visiting teacher; the oldest visiting teacher, Sister Fannie Evans, age eighty-one; the youngest visiting teacher, Sister Mary Cartuth, a bride of last summer. The Stake Relief Society President Cleona W. Hedenstrom presented the sisters an award for being the first in Ogden Stake to achieve their 100% building quota $705 for 141 memberships.
Officers of the Thirty-first Ward Relief Society are: President Lottie Holt; First Counselor Mary Perkins; Second Counselor Vivian W. Jensen.

Photograph submitted by Ethel Hurlburt

PORTLAND STAKE (OREGON), COLONIAL HEIGHTS WARD RELIEF SOCIETY VISITING TEACHERS WHO MADE 1,287 CALLS IN 1947
Photograph taken May 2, 1948
Front row, left to right: Josephine Olson; Susan Gray; Ethel Hurlburt, Secretary-Treasurer; Vesta Webster, First Counselor; Mima Hainsworth, President; Della Davis, Second Counselor.
Fourth row, left to right: Marguerite Craner; Olive Murray; Vera Remington; Aileen Oldroyd; Laura Ross.

Photograph submitted by Leona McCarrey

Benson Stake (Utah), VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE GIVEN MORE THAN FORTY YEARS OF SERVICE TO RELIEF SOCIETY
Seated, left to right: Lavina Poulsen, Lewiston First Ward; Christensia Hanson, Trenton; Martha Coley, Richmond South Ward; Martha A. Lewis, Richmond; Sarah Snelgrove, Richmond.
Standing, left to right: Lydia Leavitt, Lewiston First Ward; Estelle Blair, Lewiston Third Ward; Sarah Preece, Cove Ward; Susie Allen, Cove Ward; Lavinia Wilcox, Cove Ward; Clara Wheeler, Trenton.

Leona McCarrey is president of Benson Stake Relief Society.

Photograph submitted by Mabel B. Blackwell

WEBER STAKE (UTAH), OGDEN NINETEENTH WARD PROGRAM "BUILDERS FOR ETERNITY," March 30, 1948
Seated, left to right: Elizabeth Wilson; Mary Smith Carr; Mary Burt.
Standing, left to right: Mary Potter; Edith Barker, organist; Elda Hurd, chorister; Jessie Burton, accompanist for Singing Mothers; Grace Gledhill, Secretary; Ethel Anderson, First Counselor; Mabel Blackwell, President; Alta Weaver, Second Counselor; Olga Thompson.

At this program each person was presented with a card on which was a drawing of the proposed Relief Society building, done in blue and gold. Adding color and interest to the program were members dressed in costume, representing some of the noble women identified with early-day Relief Society work. Ada Lindquist is president of Weber Stake Relief Society.

NOTES FROM THE FIELD 629

Photograph submitted by Hilda E. Perkins
OAKLAND STAKE (CALIFORNIA), OAKLAND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY OFFICERS WHO CONDUCTED A SPECIAL "FIFTH-TUESDAY HOUR," March 23, 1948
Left to right: Second Counselor Bernice Kramer; Secretary-Treasurer Lisbeth Witt; Stake Relief Society President Hilda E. Perkins; Ward President La Verne M. Pennock; First Counselor Dorothy E. Brown.
On this unique and enjoyable occasion Oakland Ward was host to the entire Oakland Stake Relief Societies, with about 200 sisters being present. Special musical numbers were rendered and Verna Mae Feuerhelm, world traveler, gave a most enlightening lecture on foreign problems. The Relief Society room was decorated very attractively, and there were trays of beautifully arranged homemade cookies.
Photograph submitted by Lily M. Ward

CEDAR STAKE (UTAH), CEDAR CITY FIFTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS WHO ACHIEVED A 100% RECORD FOR TWENTY MONTHS
First row, left to right: Rosa B. Lawrence; Olive Knell; Ramola Smith, Secretary; Annie Esplin, Second Counselor; Genevieve Melling, First Counselor; Elvina Wiatrowski, President; Lauretta Perry, supervisor and visiting teachers messages leader; Thurza Little, Parowan Stake visiting teachers leader; Caroline Jordan.
Second row, left to right: Emily Lamoreaux; Fay Slack; Locky Stratton; Lottie Bladen; Harriet M. Hunter; Beth Ence; Viola Bauer; Theresa Peterson; Thelma Ashdown; Thelma Melling.
Back row, left to right: Grace Snow; Carol Draper; Elaine Jones; Beverly Carlson; Iris Corry; Lula Rollo; Gwen Corry; Agnes Knight; Henrietta Leigh.
This ward was the second in the stake to achieve its 100% building fund quota, and attained the 1947 honor roll on magazine subscriptions.

Photograph submitted by Zelma P. Beardall
KOLOB STAKE (UTAH), SINGING MOTHERS ASSEMBLED FOR THEIR CONCERT, March 17, 1948
Standing in front of pulpit, left to right: Helen R. Crandall, First Counselor; Mary H. Weight, chorister; Zelma P. Beardall, President.
Seated at the left of the pulpit, Margery Bird, organist.
The numbers presented at this concert were exceptionally beautiful and the readings given by Second Counselor Ethel Jensen and Merel Schreiner added variety and enjoyment to the concert. Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen of the Relief Society general board and her husband, Dr. Franklin Madsen, were special guests for the occasion. One of the selections "Entrancing Night" was composed by Sister Madsen.
Photograph submitted by Helen Martin

BRITISH MISSION (SCOTTISH DISTRICT), GLASGOW BRANCH, RELIEF SOCIETY BIRTHDAY PARTY, March 1948
Seated at the party table, left to right: Helen Martin, President, Glasgow Branch Relief Society; Jean Junor; Sister Leslie, wife of the branch president; Margaret Thomson McQueen.
Sister Martin writes: "Our Relief Society birthday party has come and gone. Branch President Leslie is a baker and confectioner, so we saved our rations and helped him with the ingredients for the cake. It really was beautiful, more like a bride's cake. The picture on top of the cake was made in sugar, representing the first house in which the Relief Society was held, copied from a picture which the elders gave Brother Leslie.
It was a lovely table, well worth the sacrifice of our rations.
Our Relief Society had a show of work and sale on April 17th, with a concert following. It was a great success. The hand-knitted articles made and donated by members and friends brought in around $100. That is very good for our small branch (9 members)."
Photograph submitted by Elna P. Haymond

NORTHERN STATES MISSION, AKRON BRANCH (OHIO), RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, November 29, 1947
Front row, seated, left to right: Gladys Reed; Dolly Lusk; Leona Walker; Kathleen Lamphier; Agnes Murray; Francis Cunningham, Second Counselor; Teresa Losee; Averill Ramsey.
Second row, standing, left to right: President Veda K. Dittmer; Mary Wagoner; Ella Darrow; Anita Bartley; Cora Huff; Elizabeth Weaver; Betty R. Mosley; Gaynell Newbaur; Nina Poister; Ida Cochran; Grace Autold; Lucile Jones; Garnet Leonard.
Third row, standing, left to right: First Counselor Ila Trease; Hattie Nichols; Secretary Edna Grover; Virgie Meredith; Evelyn Tuttle.
Sister Elna P. Haymond, President, Northern States Mission Relief Society, reports the Akron Branch as making unusually rapid progress under Sister Dittmer's capable direction.
"The members," Sister Haymond writes, "have worked hard and overcome much to gain the standing and strength they have. Their number has grown from five to twenty-six."