The Constitution of the United States and Religious Liberty Preston D. Richards Salt Lake City Attorney, formerly Assistant Legal Advisor to the Secretary of State of the United States, and formerly a member of the Y.M.M.I.A. General Board AFTER more than 150 years of struggle and self-sacrifice our forefathers issued a Declaration of Independence, declaring:
We hold these truths to be self-evident; that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
This was a declaration of personal and religious liberty and had been brought about not by a controversy with the mother country over property rights of great material value—the entire cargo of tea destroyed in Boston Harbor had a value of less than 18,000 pounds, and the tax amounted to only a few pence. But the principles involved were to the colonists worth more than life itself. Their fathers before them had abandoned everything they had of material value, and had wandered around Europe seeking personal liberty and the right to worship God according to their own conscience.
Eleven years later, amid after bloodshed and victory, the colonists met to establish a government that would protect the liberties and the religious rights for which they had fought.
In the preamble to the Constitution, they declared:
We, the people of the United States,
in order to form a more perfect Union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America.
The American statesmen who gave us our Constitution were, almost without exception, of English birth or descent, were experienced in government and had an intimate knowledge of the history, institutions, and common law of England and of humanity's struggle for personal and religious liberty.
The principal end they had in view was to protect individual rights against arbitrary and despotic power, whether exercised by a king, Parliament, or by any government which might be set up by the people themselves.
They gave us a Constitution that does protect the individual against the arbitrary powers of the President and Congress by a careful separation of the branches of government, each of which is a check upon the other.
The instrument provides that:
Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof . . .
At the point of the sword, in the year 1215, the people forced King John to give them the Magna Charta, the first great charter of personal liberty. By the control of the "purse strings" in the year 1628, the Parliament forced Charles I to sign the Petition of Rights, the second great charter of personal liberty. In 1689, after Parliament had declared the throne vacant and elected William and Mary as rulers, they approved the Bill of Rights, the third great charter of personal liberty. These charters of personal liberty were attained through centuries of bloodshed and human sacrifice, and they formed the solid foundation upon which our Constitution was built by men whose ancestors had fought and bled to win them.
After the Constitutional Convention had been in session for four or five weeks without agreeing upon a single sentence or paragraph of the Constitution, Benjamin Franklin arose in the convention on June 28, 1787, and said, in part: In the beginning of the contest with Great Britain, when we were sensible of danger, we had daily prayer in this room for the divine protection. Our prayers, Sir, were heard, and they were graciously answered; All of us who were engaged in the struggle must have observed frequent instances of a superintending Providence in our favor. To that kind Providence we owe this happy opportunity of consulting in peace on the means of establishing our future national felicity, and have we now forgotten that powerful Friend? Or do we imagine that we no longer need his assistance? I have lived, Sir, a long time, and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth that God governs in the affairs of men, and if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, is it probable that an empire can rise without his aid? We have been assured, Sir, in the sacred writings that, "Except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it." I firmly believe this, and I also believe that without his concurring aid we shall succeed in this political building no better than the builders of Babel. Whether the framers knew it or not, the same divine Providence that assisted the colonists in gaining their freedom, also directed the framers in establishing our Constitution.
If you believe that the Lord ever has concerned himself with the affairs of men, then it is not difficult to believe that he had a hand in establishing our Government and our Constitution. Save the coming of our Savior and the establishing of his Church, no event that has occurred in the world's history has contributed more to the happiness and well-being of mankind than the establishment of this Government under the Constitution of the United States.
Therefore, if the Lord concerns himself with big and important things pertaining to the welfare of mankind, and we know he does, the framing of our Constitution was worthy of his attention and direction. The Lord said to Joseph Smith, "I established the Constitution of this land" (D. & C. 101:70). When his people because of their religious belief had been driven from Independence, Missouri, and their homes confiscated and burned, and many of their members murdered, Joseph Smith, the Prophet of modern times, who was then in Kirtland, Ohio, organized a company of strong men to go to the rescue of those who had been so unjustly persecuted, but before applying force he asked guidance of the same Father of light that Benjamin Franklin had implored in the struggle for liberty.

His prayers were similarly answered and the Lord spoke to him in these words: "And again I say unto you, those who have been scattered by their enemies, it is my will that they should continue to importune for redress, and redemption, by the hands of those who are placed as rulers and are in authority over you. According to the laws and Constitution of the people, which I have suffered to be established, and should be maintained for the rights and protection of all flesh, according to just and holy principles.... And for this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose... (D&C 101:76f)." President Brigham Young made it plain that this Government, under our Constitution, was established by the Almighty himself, that he might have a nation on this earth guaranteeing sufficient religious liberty to its citizens that he could safely restore his gospel and establish his kingdom without the danger of its being destroyed. On this subject President Young said: "The Almighty... moved upon Columbus to launch forth upon the trackless deep to discover the American Continent; he moved upon the signers of the Declaration of Independence; and he moved upon Washington to fight and conquer, in the same way as he moved upon ancient and modern prophets each being inspired to accomplish the particular work he was called to perform in the times, seasons, and dispensations of the Almighty. God's purpose in raising up these men and inspiring them with daring sufficient to surmount every opposing power, was to prepare the way for the formation of a true republican government. We believe that the Lord has been preparing that when he should bring forth his work, that, when the set time should fully come, there might be a place upon his footstool where sufficient liberty of conscience should exist, that his saints might dwell in peace under the broad panoply of constitutional law and equal rights. In this view we consider that the men in the Revolution were inspired by the Almighty, to throw off the shackles of the mother government, with her established religion. For this cause were Adams, Jefferson, Franklin, Washington, and hosts of others inspired to deeds of resistance to the acts of the King of Great Britain, who might also have been led to those aggressive acts, for ought we know, to bring to pass the purposes of God, in thus establishing a new government upon a principle of greater freedom, a basis of self-government allowing the free exercise of religious worship (Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 551-552)." Speaking of our Constitution and its framers, President Young said: "Although unknown to them, it was dictated by the revelations of Jesus Christ." The governments of Europe are now passing through a despotism which our ancestors passed through seven hundred years ago. Stating it in another way, the countries of Europe, so far as concerns freeing themselves from despotism and establishing personal and religious liberty, are more than seven hundred years behind our Constitution of the United States. There are some even within our own country who are now declaring that age and the years have made our Constitution obsolete. I ask you, are the Ten Commandments of Moses obsolete because they were thundered forth from Sinai 4,000 years ago? Have the years made obsolete the wisdom of Solomon? (Continued on page 631) THE CONSTITUTION OF THE UNITED STATES AND RELIGIOUS LIBERTY 581 The sisters of the Church have been engaged for this past year in a great undertaking which will stand to their credit forever. The spirit of this call to collect money to erect a Relief Society Building has penetrated to the hearts of the sisterhood throughout the world. Quota payments are being received from faraway missions from which the general board did not expect to get any material help at all due to present economic conditions, although they knew that they would lend their full support otherwise. It is a cause of rejoicing to read the letters which accompany the remittances. Although scarcely a handful of these sisters will, in all probability, ever have the opportunity to enter the portals of the Relief Society Building, they have caught the vision of the undertaking and have given liberally to this great cause from their very limited means. Sister Piranian, Relief Society president of the Palestine-Syrian Mission, writes: "It is with great pleasure that I am able to submit to you the donations for the new Relief Society Building from this mission, and to tell you that we have met our quota, 100%." I wish to extend to you the love and friendship of all the sisters here in Lebanon and Syria. Sister Huntsman, Relief Society president of the Tongan Mission, says: "In regards to the new Relief Society building, I am happy to tell you that the Relief Society sisters of the Tongan Mission are very happy to have the privilege of giving their contribution along with the other Relief Society sisters throughout the Church. This I feel is a splendid record when we consider the conditions of the saints here, and the small amount of money they have; but it is proof that the gospel of Jesus Christ, when accepted and lived regardless of race or color, brings forth the same fruits of love and service. I appreciate very much having the privilege of working with such fine women as our Tongan women are, and their willingness to do the things I have felt inspired to ask of them. The brethren have been very helpful in assisting the sisters to complete their quotas." The following letter from President Adiel F. Stewart of the Palestine-Syrian Mission is included for reference: "It is with great pleasure that I am able to submit to you the donations for the new Relief Society Building from this mission, and to tell you that we have met our quota, 100%."

Sister Huntsman, Relief Society president of the Tongan Mission, says: In regards to the new Relief Society building I am happy to tell you that the Relief Society sisters of the Tongan Mission are very happy to have the privilege of giving their contribution along with the other Relief Society sisters throughout the Church . . . This I feel is a splendid record when we consider the conditions of the Saints here, and the small amount of money they have; but it is proof that the gospel of Jesus Christ when accepted and lived regardless of race or color brings forth the same fruits of love and service. I appreciate very much having the privilege of working with such fine women as our Tongan women are, and their willingness to do the things I have felt inspired to ask of them. The brethren have been very helpful in assisting the sisters to complete their quotas.

The following letter from President Adiel F. Stewart of 583 Temple View Stake, addressed to his Relief Society Stake President Lorena W. Anderson, is a fine example of the appreciation the stake president has for the work of his Relief Society stake board in regard to their completing the Relief Society Building Fund:

This is a note of appreciation — long past due. I just want to express to you, in writing, our deep and genuine gratitude for your untiring and painstaking labor— in bringing to fruition the Stake Relief Society assignment. Your accomplishment has been a great inspiration to us, of the priesthood.

Will you kindly express to your counselors and board members, the feelings of the stake presidency in this regard? May the Lord bless you, in your work, with his great abundance of spirit and may your spirit be strengthened as you continue to serve.

TEXAS-LOUISIANA MISSION, SOCIETY BUILDING FUND QUILT

Seated in front of the quilt, left to right: Myrtle Blackburn; Eloise Van Osdell; Pauline Jones; Mary Brian; Wanzie Pennington. Holding the quilt, left to right: First Counselor Lillian Zylks and President Alma Browning.

This unusually beautiful quilt is made in a fan design of blue and yellow fans on white. There are 225 names embroidered on the yellow parts of the fans. Every woman whose name appears on the quilt contributed to the Relief Society Building Fund.

STAKES WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS

South Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) San Diego Stake (California) Wells Stake (Utah) Teton Stake (Idaho and Wyoming) Granite Stake (Utah) North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho) Emigration Stake (Utah) Mesa Stake (Arizona) Rexburg Stake (Idaho) Utah ADA Stake (Nevada and Utah) Utah Stake (Utah) Seattle Stake (Washington) South Los Angeles Stake (California) Juarez Stake (Mexico) Florida Stake (Florida) Temple View Stake (Utah) Bear River Stake (Utah) Parowan Stake (Utah) Cedar Stake (Utah) Liberty Stake (Utah) Smithfield Stake (Utah) Sugar House Stake (Utah) Salt Lake Stake (Utah) San Luis Stake (Colorado) Oneida Stake (Idaho) Tooele Stake (Utah) San Juan Stake (Utah) Sevier Stake (Utah) Grant Stake (Utah) East Provo Stake (Utah) American Falls Stake (Idaho) Oquirrh Stake (Utah) East Rigby Stake (Idaho) San Bernardino Stake (California) Maricopa Stake (Arizona) San Francisco Stake (California) (Weiser Stake (Idaho) (Oahu Stake (Hawaii) (West Pocatello Stake (Idaho)

MISSIONS WHICH HAVE SENT IN 100% BUILDING QUOTAS

Northern California Mission Hawaiian Mission Eastern States Mission Palestine-Syrian Mission Samoan Mission Tongan Mission New Zealand Mission

WARDS AND BRANCHES (IN STAKES) WHICH HAVE COMPLETED THEIR MEMBERSHIP QUOTAS (Since publication of the list in the August Magazine, and prior to August 6, 1948)

Arbon Ward, West Pocatello Cardston Fourth Ward, Alberta Duncan Ward, Mount Graham Emmett First Ward, Weiser Escalante South Ward, Garfield Glendale East Ward, San Fernando Heyburn First Ward, Minidoka Heybum Second Ward, Minidoka Jefferson Ward, Alberta Kahana Branch, Oahu Kaimuki Ward, Oahu Kakaako Ward, Oahu Kalihi Ward, Oahu Kaneohe Branch, Oahu Las Cruces Branch, Mount Graham Laie Ward, Oahu Lanakila Ward, Oahu Lordsburg Ward, Mount Graham Makiki Branch, Oahu Mission Ward, San Francisco Nanakuli Branch, Oahu Papakolea Ward, Oahu Pearl City Branch, Oahu Phoenix Second Ward, Phoenix Pine Ward, Maricopa Pocatello First Ward, West Pocatello Pocatello Third Ward, West Pocatello Pocatello Fifth Ward, West Pocatello Pocatello Sixth Ward, Pocatello Pocatello Ninth Ward, West Pocatello Pocatello Tenth Ward, West Pocatello Pocatello Eleventh Ward, West Poca-tello Pocatello Thirteenth Ward, Pocatello Rupert Second Ward, Minidoka Twin Falls First Ward, Twin Falls Wahiawa Branch, Oahu Waikiki Ward, Oahu Wales Ward, Moroni Webster Ward, Park West Bountiful Ward, South Davis West Ensign Ward, Ensign Woolford Ward, Alberta

BRANCHES (IN MISSIONS) WHICH HAVE COMPLETED THEIR MEMBERSHIP BUILDING QUOTAS (Since publication of the list in the August Magazine, and prior to August 6, 1948)

Albertson Branch, Central Atlantic States Aldridge Branch, Central Atlantic States Ann Arbor Branch, Northern States Azalea City Branch, Western States Banning Branch, California Bradfordsville Branch, East Central States Calumet Branch, Texas-Louisiana Casper Branch, Western States Colfax Branch, Central Atlantic States Cumberland Branch, East Central States Delta Branch, Western States Detroit Branch, Northern States Dutch Gap Branch, Central Atlantic States East St. Louis Branch, Central States Escondido Branch, California Fallbrook Branch, California Fort Benton Branch, Northwestern States Fort Lauderdale Branch, Southern States Hemet Branch, California High Point Branch, Central Atlantic States Jackson Springs Branch, Central Atlantic States Lexington Branch, East Central States Lompoc Branch, California McMechen Branch, East Central States Miami Branch, Southern States Monte Vista Branch, Western States Nacogdoches Branch, Texas-Louisiana Oildale Branch, California Ojai Branch, California Orange Branch, Texas-Louisiana Oxnard Branch, California Parkersburg Branch, East Central States Pascagoula Branch, Southern States Paso Robles Branch, California Peoria Branch, Northern States Petersburg Branch, Central Atlantic States Port Arthur Branch, Texas-Louisiana Portsmouth Branch, Northern States Roxboro Branch, Central Atlantic States Santa Barbara Branch, California San Dieguito Branch, California San Luis Obispo Branch, California Santa Maria Branch, California Sink Creek Branch, Southern States Taft Branch, California Tulsa Branch, Central States Verde Valley Branch, California West Palm Beach Branch, Southern States Williamson Branch, Texas-Louisiana Winston-Salem Branch, Central Atlantic States Yuma Branch, California

AUTUMN PALETTE

Caroline Eyring Miner

Golden leaf, turquoise sky, Scarlet bonfire blazing high;
Purple grape, silver haze, Crimson sunset autumn days.

Learn of Love
Rosa Lee Lloyd

WHEN Hollis heard the front door slam she put her head down on the breakfast table and burst into tears. Bill had gone without kissing her goodbye—he didn't want to make up after their quarrel last night!

She was still dabbing her eyes thinking what a stubborn mouth Bill had, that even his chin was stubborn, too, when the mailman brought Cousin Stella's invitation to her silver wedding anniversary.

An hour later, after packing her suitcase, Hollis wrote a crisp little note to Bill:

I'm accepting Cousin Stella's invitation to her silver wedding anniversary. Marrying you was the biggest mistake a woman for twenty-five years. I don't. So I'll let you know when I find out.

She took the bus to Hanover, thirty-five miles away, sighing as she leaned back in the seat. Dear, lovable Stella, happily married to big Ted Martin for twenty-five years!

Hollis felt her throat ache when she thought about it.

What would Stella say if she knew that Hollis and Bill, married only one year next week, had had a heartbreaking quarrel—that the tiniest push would send her running home to mother? But not a word about it to Stella, she promised herself; Stella had found the secret of happy marriage, and Hollis determined to learn what it was. And it might be, too, that Stella wasn't married to a man like Bill.

Stella met her at the station. She
was a dark flame of a woman, radiating love like a warm fire, exclaiming as she hugged Hollis: "You're a scarecrow—thin as a wafer! What's eating you, baby?"

It was easy to laugh when you were with Stella. You could swallow your heartache while you listened to her rich, flowing voice. Stella had a straightforward attitude about everything—even her husband and her sons.
"Ted's just the same old rascal," she went on gaily. "And the boys are away at school. Those kids! We're so grateful for them. But of course they'll get married someday and forget how Ted and I sacrificed for their schooling. But that's the way it should be."
She talked on eagerly, and Hollis thought how wonderful to look at life the way Stella did.

HOLLIS loved Stella's big, white house on Circle Street. It had that lived-in feeling, she thought enviously; you weren't afraid to curl up cozily in the comfy old chairs—even old Ezra, the dog, stretched before the fireplace as though he belonged there, and Stella didn't mind the white hairs he left on the rug.

It was fun to help with dinner. Stella had such lovely linens and dishes, older than those which Hollis had, and worn, too, but she handled them tenderly as though she loved them more with each passing year.
"We'll use the rose china," she told Hollis as they set the table.
"Ted loves those dishes—his mother gave them to us—and he likes the heavy glasses. He hates stem goblets—he's always knocking them over with his elbows—so I just use the kind that don't bother him."
"Real Ted! Real! Scalloped potatoes because Ted liked them, steak for the same reason, and the fresh apple pie was Ted's very favorite!
Her soft little mouth fell into a sour droop. So giving a man what he liked to eat was one of the little tricks of Stella's successful marriage record.

Dashing upstairs to freshen up a bit before dinner, she remembered last month when her chum, Peg, had come down to visit them and Bill had grumbled about the food all the time she was there. Could Hollis help it because Peg didn't want fattening foods like biscuits and deep custard pie made from his mother's recipe? They had quarreled after Peg left and Bill had shown a bad temper that Hollis hadn't known he had before she married him.
"This is my home," he had bellowed at her. "I expect to be treated as if I belong here. A fellow gets hungry for something besides spring salad and crackers!"
Hollis had cried herself to sleep that night. Why hadn't Bill married a cook if that meant so much to him, she had asked herself, desperately.

Now as she changed into a gay print dress, she wondered if Ted Martin had ever acted that way and what Stella had done about it?

At six o'clock everything was ready for dinner. Stella and Hollis listened to the radio while they waited for Ted. Hollis, still smiling,
studied Stella's reaction to his tardiness closely. But Stella was serene as a Sunday morning walk. Once her eyes strayed to the clock and she said, casually, "Ted works so hard—things have piled up for him lately—he has a new stenographer this week."

Curled up in the big chair by the radio, Hollis thought how furious she had been last night when Bill didn't get home to dinner because some important letters had to be written and he was breaking in a new stenographer. Of course Bill's job was important, but after all a wife should come first!

At seven o'clock, Stella, still smiling, thought maybe they should eat dinner while things were still warm.
"Ted's like a boy," she said, aiming at Hollis with that tender mother-look, "an irresponsible boy. He likes to play on the way home."

HOLLIS saw an opening. "But, Stella! Doesn't it make you furious when he's late like this?"
"Furious?" Stella's eyes were like dark sunshine. "Why, no, Hollis, I don't think of it that way any more. Ted works so hard—he needs a little fun."

This was too much for Hollis. She flopped back in the big chair and stared up at Stella, her eyes a disapproving blue.
"Stella Martin! I don't believe it—you're not human, that's all. Ted could phone you, he could send a message somehow, no matter what—"
"Listen, pet," Stella's voice flowed on as smoothly as Old Man River. "If Ted has to interrupt his fun to phone me then he'll lose the some-588 fit he gets from forgetting about me for awhile."

"I give up," wailed Hollis, tossing her hands up. "If you can tell me you want Ted to forget you, even for one second, then you've stopped loving him. A wife might as well quit as to feel that way!"

Stella shook her head, pursing her lips, and her eyes darkened thoughtfully. "That's not true, Hollis. It's because I do love Ted that I feel the way I do about things. You see, honey," she sat on the arm of the chair, twirling her fingers in Hollis's rusty curls, "I used to love myself a lot more than I loved Ted or even the boys. It was always little me that I was thinking about. Oh, I was a perfect wife, all right," this in answer to Hollis's piercing look. "At least I thought I was. Now I know I was a selfish little cat."

"You couldn't be selfish," Hollis defended. "You've always been an angel to Ted and Bud and Dick, too." Stella laughed, jumping to her feet. "Maybe we better eat. Ted wouldn't want us to wait any longer."

Hollis sighed, nibbling her toast. Maybe in twenty-five years she could meet life the way Stella did. Yes, on her silver wedding day maybe she wouldn't be selfish and petty and jealous of little things. But she was afraid to think about it; she was terribly afraid there wouldn't even be an anniversary for her and Bill.

The next day Hollis met Peg Stewart at Frankens for luncheon. Dear old Peg, blond and dashing, a little plumper since Tom, Jr., had arrived, but just the same old Peg, envious and gossipy but lovable, too.
"So Stella and Ted have been married twenty-five years," she rattled on. "That is something. Oh oh, there's Ted now with his office crowd." Hollis followed Peg's eyes, blinked, started from her chair, then sat back staring at Ted Martin seated with a jolly crowd at a table across the room. A smart-looking girl with slick blond hair was telling him something very funny because Ted was laughing.

Hollis could feel prickly little darts racing up her spine. "He should've brought Stella," she said in a tight, aching voice. Peg said, one eyebrow a half-inch above the other: "Believe me, Tom and I would have a good tiff if he left me out even if it was the office crowd." Hollis puckered her lovely brows. "How can he treat Stella like this? And the day before their silver anniversary! But then, she doesn't know about it." Peg said: "Look, Holly, I'm going to call her right this minute,..." Hollis bristled. "You can't! You can't hurt Stella like that!" "Oh, can't I? Listen, sugar, someone should have spunk enough to tell Stella she's being neglected!" Peg had already started toward the telephone and Hollis knew she might as well try to stop the thunder. Resentment was a burning ache in her throat as she hurried from the restaurant alone. She was heartsick and tired of trying to understand life and people. It was a man's world no doubt of that! And Bill and Ted were just alike!

LEARN OF LOVE

She walked the streets all afternoon, postponing the eventual showdown with Stella. Of course Peg would tell her Hollis had seen Ted, too. She couldn't pretend she didn't know about it. Her heart was falling like a hammer as she opened the door of the Martin's house at five o'clock. She hesitated in the hallway. Stella was probably in her own room crying her heart out. But no, that was the whir of the mixmaster in the kitchen and Stella's tinkling voice singing above it. Hollis was dizzy with relief. Then Peg hadn't called her after all! "Hi," Stella called. "Come on in. I'm making candy for the boys—some for your Bill, too. We don't want him to think we've forgotten him, do we?" Hollis leaned against the door frame. She couldn't breathe. Bill had forgotten her, of course. He hadn't phoned or written or even thought about her. The stubborn mule! Stella looked at her. "Say, baby, you look all in. Here sit down—quick!" She pushed a chair under Hollis. "T thought you'd be home earlier," she went on. "Peg said you ran out on her at noon." Slowly Hollis realized what Stella was saying. Peg had called her! Her hand trembled around the glass of water Stella handed to her and then suddenly she burst into tears against Stella's warm breast. Stella held her in a tight little hug, smoothing her hair tenderly. "T hate men!" Hollis sobbed. "They're mean and selfish and just try to hurt us!" 589

"Don't think that way, pet," Stella was saying. "And don't let what Peg said upset you. I know it doesn't look well for Ted to lunch with his office crowd all the time. At first I thought I couldn't stand it we quarreled about it many times, but every couple does that at some time or other. I learned better after while. I'm sure now that the crowd you saw today can't take Ted away from me. Yes, I know," she held up her hand as Hollis started to speak, "you're going to tell me what fun they were having, how cute the office girl is; but listen, honey, we have to trust a little more and have a little more faith in ourselves. I know Ted loves his home and I know he loves me, so I'm not worrying." "You're not even human," Hollis interrupted, dabbing her eyes indignantly. "I can't stand Bill to be late or eat out with office crowds—I'm not an angel like you are!" Stella's eyes narrowed, her nostrils quivered, and for one tiny instant fire flickered in her eyes. "I haven't always been an angel," she answered quietly. "It's taken me twenty-five years to learn how working overtime, including Sundays. Listen, dear, it's like this, love is the secret. If you love a man enough you won't run out on your job and your job is to make a go of it. We can't let these little things get us down every day demands our very best...."

HOLLIS couldn't listen any longer. She excused herself, explaining she didn't want dinner because she'd had so much luncheon, and hurried up to her room. Stella's words kept repeating themselves, like the rhythm of her heart "love is the secret" "these little things." How could she call it a little thing when Ted neglected her like this? If that was the kind of treatment that added up to a silver wedding day then Hollis didn't want one, even if she was so lonely for Bill and sick about everything that she cried herself to sleep. But she hurried down to breakfast the next morning, eager to see if Stella had been putting on an act the night before. She'd be able to tell when she saw her with Ted. They were at the breakfast table, leaning close together reading a letter. Hollis could hear Stella's voice and she felt the rich happiness in it. Ted's arm was around her shoulders and his fingers toyed lovingly with her dark hair as she read aloud in her sweet rushing way:

"Now you know how Bud and I feel about you, Mom and Dad,

And your silver wedding day.

Proud, that's the word for it, and grateful, too. Both of us know it hasn't been easy for either of you. I can remember times when I wondered how Mom put up with you, Dad, but she always forgave you. And I can also remember a few times when Mom was plenty unreasonable and blew her top over some crazy little thing that shouldn't have mattered at all. But I'm glad she always came back smiling, ready to try again. Yes, we are the luckiest guys in the world to have a couple of parents like you. God bless you both on your wedding day and thanks for being like you are.

Thanks again for everything."

Hollis's breath caught inside her and she bit her trembling lip as she hurried back upstairs. She kept remembering the little shining glints in Stella's eyes. When she came back down an hour later, Stella had gone to do some last minute shopping and Ted was cutting the lawn. She took some toast and milk and went out to the porch swing; she watched his tall figure bent over a mower, a lock of his dark hair bouncing before his eyes, his face reddened by the sun.

"Hello, Holly," he called, dropping the handle and mopping his face. "Tough work for an old man. Whew!" He sat down in the swing beside her. "I want everything slicked up around here for the reception tonight guess I better trim that hedge, too," he added, squinting at it.

"Is today that important to you, Ted?" Hollis asked, a little edge to her voice and her eyes sardonic as she looked at him. "I mean does a silver wedding day mean as much to you as it does to Stella?"

He looked down at her, his heavy brows puckered together.

"You're a funny kid," he said, studying her intently. "Of course it means as much to me maybe more. Here, wait a minute." He dashed into the garage, was gone a minute, then came back grinning like a kid with a big balloon. "Look at this," he beamed, "I've kept it hidden in the garage so Stella wouldn't see it until tonight." Hollis looked a long time at the chest of shining silver and watched Ted as he turned each piece for her inspection. "Sterling!" he said, and the word was music on his lips. "The very best. For Stella." Hollis felt a great hot lump in her throat as he went on talking eagerly. "I've been paying for it a year. It was tough with the boys in school but I did extra work and made a little overtime. Stella has always wanted a set like this. I've watched her looking at advertisements in the magazines. I can hardly wait to give it to her—she's earned it a million times over."
His voice stumbled, and Hollis noticed a little pulse quiver in his throat.
"It's beautiful, Ted," she whispered, her heart very quiet. "She'll love it—I'm sure. . . ." Then she left him sitting there staring after her.
The reception was an informal, friendly affair, and Stella was a dream in blue velvet, standing with Ted before the white mantel, her arm in his, greeting old friends with a radiant happiness as though it hadn't been any trick at all to live twenty-five years with him, the darling!
And when Peg came, flamboyant, inquisitive Peg, bristling with curiosity to see how a wife acted on her silver wedding day, Stella was charming and poised as a calm lily.
"You're sweet!" she said, hugging Peg as though she didn't even remember how unhappy Peg had tried to make her feel yesterday. "I wish you had waited for Bud or Dick."
Peg tossed her head, laughing as she poked her finger at Ted. "Then this old meanie would have been my father-in-law. Ouch! I couldn't take it, Stella."
And Stella laughed, too, as if they shared a side-splitting secret.
Hollis watching from the dining room where she was pouring punch, noticed that Ted was different than he had been at Franken's yesterday.
His rakish grin had sobered to a tender smile and the twinkle in his eyes was a steady glowing light as he looked at Stella. Hollis realized, with a catchy little sob, that Stella had earned that look and it hadn't been easy. Dear, wonderful Stella! Hollis could feel the tears burning hot in her eyes as she turned away and ran up to her room.
Once inside she shut the door and leaned back heavily against it. She wanted a silver wedding day, too, and she wanted it with Bill. He was a thousand times more wonderful than anyone else in the world, with his sandy hair and his big, easy shoulders and that firm, stubborn mouth.
She knew now that a silver wedding day, like everything else that is good in life, has to be earned and someday—oh, maybe someday—Bill would look at her the way Ted had looked at Stella tonight; as though she meant everything that was true and lovely and worth working for.
Resolutely, her chin steady and determined, she went to the telephone and dialed her home number. And when Bill answered, his voice husky with sleep, she said softly: "Hello, Bill. I've learned—the secret. I want you to know. . . ."
There was a breathless little pause. She could imagine Bill's mouth breaking into a wide grin. "That's wonderful, honey. Wanta tell me the secret?" His voice was eager—and wistful.
"I'll tell you when I get home," she answered, knowing deep in her heart that home would always be in Bill's arms.

Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1888 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE Women oF ALL NATIONS" INCIDENTS OF TRAVEL: In conversation with Prest. M.

Isabella Horne, of the Relief Society of this Stake, since her return from abroad, we decided to make a few notes that we thought would be of interest to our readers. In Mrs. Horne's railway journey from Salt Lake City to New York she met with quite a number of people who were interested in Utah matters, the people, the institutions, etc. Elder R. S. Horne, her son, who accompanied her, also conversed with several learned gentlemen who desired information upon the subject of Mormonism and who seemed pleased with whatever items were imparted to them.

FROM HOME
Would that every tired heart now in exile
Could be cheered to-day as mine,
With a token of love from loved ones,
That would give such love divine.
But they cannot, so God grant that blossoms
Wherever they dwell may bloom,
And to comfort, cheer and bless them,
Be laden with "dear home" perfume.

E. T.
SALT LAKE STAKE: The Relief Society Conference of this Stake of Zion was held in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms on Thursday, September 13th, Mrs. M. Isabella Horne presiding. Mrs. S. M. Kimball addressed the meeting. She spoke of her recent visit to San Francisco and other parts of California, and the ideas people outside entertained of our people; described an interesting visit to a celebrated church, and remarked that her visit had enlarged her charity for those who were not of our faith.

MISCELLANEOUS
The tight coat-sleeve is entirely abandoned in favor of the sleeve of puffs and plaits. A new bangle is made of gold wire in the shape of an arrow which curves around the arm. Outside pockets will be worn with fall gowns. As they are convenient and can be made ornamental, they will be heartily welcome. Bows of plaited braid appear at the foot of the skirt in all new gowns. They are well received as they look well and save the dress from wear. Realism permeates all arts even the milliners. The latest decoration for bonnets is a bunch of red clover blossoms or thistle heads.

NOTES AND NEWS: Charles Lamb's grave at Edmonton is sadly neglected. The simple slab of limestone which marks the spot is nearly hidden with weeds and grasses. The world of art owes Princess Torrearsa a great debt for the preservation of the famous collection of Greek vases brought together by the late archaeologist Serradifaleo. Through her efforts, the collection has been placed in the museum of Palermo, at Sicily, where it will be doubtless kept for all time.

Page 592
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon

MARY CROWE and GLADYS BOWEN, business women of Columbus, Ohio, failed in their patriotic effort to raise vegetables for conservation. Finding that the reason was lack of earthworms and compost, they did some research on these items and learned, incidentally, that Cleopatra ordered the activities of the earthworms of her realm guarded as a state secret "for to their busy burrowings was attributed the fabulous fertility of the Nile Valley," reports Miss Crowe.

THE program of the American Home Economics Association is concentrating on strengthening family life. It recognizes the great need in America for young people to come to marriage with homemaking skills well developed, and with the maturity and understanding necessary to create a home and a family.

MISS BLANCHE FERRE, teacher at Central School, Brigham City, Utah, won the $1,200 prize for the nation's best elementary-grade teacher in the radio program contest of the "Quiz Kids." Her former pupil, Scott Crower, 8, who wrote the letter that elected her, said that she came early every morning to help a slow pupil learn to read and that "she was nice to all of us, not just a few."

UTAH has a number of women in their "gay nineties" and even beyond. The oldest woman of the State is Mrs. Sarah Ann Gibboney of Duchesne, 101 on July 24; Mrs. Lydia Baker, Logan, is 100; Mrs. Ann C. Milne, Salt Lake, will be 100 on October 27; Mrs. Mary S. Sleater and Mrs. Elizabeth Glover, oldest identical twins in the United States are Utah-reared pioneer women, Mrs. Mary Smith of San Leandro, California, and Mrs. Margaret Lamb of Farmington, Utah. At 99 they are still sometimes mistaken for each other. Mrs. Augusta Winters Grant, widow of the late President Heber J. Grant, is 92. In the past few months death has come to Mrs. Alice Wright Seaman of Cedar, 99; Mrs. Mary Louise Folsom Brown, 92; and Mrs. Calletune Callister Hatton of Fillmore, who lacked three days of being 98.

AMERICAN girls received some high school instruction for the first time in 1826, in Boston. But there were too many applicants for the limited budget, so two years later the school was closed, the Mayor declaring: "No city could stand the expense." Twenty-six years later, 1854, the first (genuine) high school for girls was founded in America. That, too, was in Boston—the Girls' High School.

Page 593
EDITORIAL SEPTEMBER 1948 VOL. 35 No. 9

The Family Hour
We live for time and for eternity.... This family organization being a unit in the great and perfect organization of God's work, and all destined to continue throughout time and eternity (Gospel Doctrine, page 348).

In order to help cement eternal family ties, a responsibility has been placed by the General Authorities upon every Relief Society mother to the end that she, under the direction of her husband, will see that a Family Hour is regularly observed in her family circle. Last year Relief Society visiting teachers left in every Latter-day Saint home a pamphlet which set forth the purpose and suggestions for holding the Family Hour. Some months have passed since the inauguration of this program and the responsibility that Relief Society members have for the success of the Family Hour is being re-emphasized. Many families have already heeded this call and are now reaping the blessings to be gained from the holding of the Family Hour in their respective families. However, there are still some families which, for one reason or another, have not yet made the Family Hour an integral part of their family life.

It would be an ideal practice for every young couple, very soon after their marriage, to establish their own Family Hour. It would be a time for them to read and study the scriptures together, to discuss family problems as they arise and solve them in harmony with gospel principles. Very valuable lessons for marriage could be learned from reading instructions on marriage and family life which have been given by Church leaders. Enjoying recreation together should also form a part of their Family Hour, and not be overlooked.

As children bless the union of such a couple, a Family Hour would already be well established in their home and the procedure might then be modified to suit the tastes of children of the varying age groups, all to the end that the family would feel itself a unit and sense its obligation to progress as a unit here and hereafter. The position of the husband as the head of the family should always be recognized in any such gathering.

For a newly married couple or a family in which the children are all small, the problems connected with the establishment of a Family Hour are negligible. The mother of children in the adolescent age group, however, may find some obstacles to overcome since the young people have probably become so accustomed to being left to their own pleasures and desires that they may resent giving up some activity in order to devote the time to be together as a family. Under these circumstances, of course, the mother's first concern THE FAMILY HOUR would be to enlist the support of her husband in establishing a Family Hour. Since the family is always present at dinner time, the dinner hour might be a good time at which to begin a Family Hour. Games which proceed along with the dinner catch the interest of teen-agers. 'To help build family solidarity the father might give a short talk, commending individual members for particular traits and giving encouragement on the means of overcoming faults. The father might also announce the time decided upon for holding the Family Hour thereafter. Following the initial observance, Mother, as the instigator, may prepare special light refreshments and plan activities behind the scenes of as varied a nature as necessary to make the 595 Family Hour a time of pleasurable enjoyment. The children may take turns in planning programs and different-type activities since the more the active interest of each member of the family is aroused, the more successful will be the observances. When one recalls the blessings promised to a family which faithfully holds a Family Hour, every Relief Society mother should resolve to enlist the support of her husband in instituting such an observance in her own family. Only thus can Relief Society fulfill the call which has been placed upon it by the Church. The regular holding of a Family Hour, moreover, will aid parents in fulfilling the obligation of parenthood which the Lord has placed upon them.

M. C. S.
All Relief Society Members Invited to Thursday September 30th Sessions of the Annual General Relief Society Conference
VERY Relief Society member is invited to attend the two sessions of the annual general Relief Society conference to be held in the Tabernacle on September 30, Thursday morning from 10 to 12 and Thursday afternoon from 2 to 4. The entire proceedings of the morning meeting will be devoted to the recognition of the completion of the Relief Society Building Fund. Each stake and mission achieving 100% of its quota will have an official representative seated in a reserved section wearing a band bearing the name of the respective stake or mission. A special feature will be the rendition by the Singing Mothers of a song written especially for this occasion. The afternoon session will be a time of rejoicing and the voicing of gratitude and thanksgiving for blessings enjoyed by Relief Society members everywhere. President George Albert Smith and President Spafford will speak at the afternoon session. It is the hope of the general board that the Tabernacle will overflow with great numbers of the sisters who have so unselfishly worked to donate to the great Relief Society Building Fund. It will be an epoch-making conference and one which will live long in the annals of Relief Society.

EMILY H. BENNETT
First Counselor
BERTHA S. READER
President
LARUE C. LONGDEN
Second Counselor

Relief Society Congratulates Newly Appointed Y.W.M.I.A. Presidency
RELIEF Society members in all the stakes and missions of the Church extend congratulations and best wishes to the new officers of our sister organization, the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association. Sister Bertha Stone Reeder, the newly appointed president, has selected as her counselors Emily Higgs Bennett and LaRue Can Longden. These women are all outstanding leaders, gifted, faithful, enthusiastic, and devoted to the welfare of the young women of the Church. Sister Reeder, the mother of two sons and a daughter, is a woman of great personal charm. She recently returned from New England, where her husband, Judge William H. Reeder, Jr., was mission president and Sister Reeder presided over the women's auxiliaries. As an organization the Relief Society feels particularly proud of this dear sister whose loyal efforts in the mission field brought many isolated organizations into close harmony with the ideals and opportunities of Relief Society. She has now been called to a position of even greater responsibility where her loving influence will help to develop the "mutual" girls into capable and loyal Relief Society members for tomorrow.

Sister Bennett, a truly ideal Latter-day Saint woman, is the wife of Harold H. Bennett and the mother of eight children. Two sons recently left for the mission field. Emily Bennett has many artistic gifts, including writing and music. Her radiant personality, her devotion to the gospel, her understanding and comradeship with young people, are qualities which will greatly influence the young women of the Church.

The new second counselor, Sister Longden, has been an active leader in Church auxiliaries ever since she was appointed stake Sunday School secretary at the age of sixteen. She has written many beautiful plays and pageants and is well known for her book and play reviews, which have been of much cultural value in her community, particularly for groups of "mutual" girls. Sister Longden and her husband, John Longden, a devoted Church worker, have two lovely daughters. The sweet and gracious influence of this wife and mother will now be further extended to include all the daughters of Zion.

As Relief Society women, we wish also to extend our love and appreciation to the retiring presidency, Lucy Grant Cannon, Verna W. Goddard, and Lucy T. Andersen. Theirs has been a service of untiring devotion, of spiritual inspiration, and most gracious leadership. May their future endeavors be blessed with much happiness and the continued enjoyment of the gifts of the gospel.

Self Defense
Anna Prince Redd

I take the highway or the air
When I, with urgent feet, must see
Shops and cities—anywhere.
Just to lose myself from me.
But when my heart again is still,
I seek the trail, the musky loam.
The woodfolk, whispering, until
A lighted window brings me home.

Antics
Mary Pack Tiiplett

Little regimented ant!
With what amazing skill
You shovel out your tunnels
And lift a sheltering hill.
We respect your talent
To build and colonize;
You surely show rare intellect
For one of your small size.
Yet just one aberration
Marks you the rankest sinner;
You make your uninvited way
To every picnic dinner.

Notes to the Field Payments for Wheat Interest

This year, for the first time, checks for wheat interest for all amounts of five cents or over have been sent by the Presiding Bishop's office to ward bishops for delivery to ward Relief Society presidents. Where wheat interest amounts are less than five cents, no payment will be made because of impracticability. Heretofore, postage stamps for wheat interest amounting to less than $1.00 have been sent to ward Relief Society presidents, but this practice has been discontinued.

Checks should be cashed promptly and, in accordance with instructions in a letter to stake Relief Society presidents dated November 14, 1947, the wheat interest should be placed in the general fund and used as are any other general funds of the society.

Annual General Relief Society Conference September 29 and 30, 1948, PLANS are well underway for the annual general relief Society conference to be held on Wednesday and Thursday, September 29 and 30, 1948, immediately preceding the Church semi-annual general conference. The plan for the Relief Society general conference calls for a morning officers meeting in the Assembly Hall for stake board members on Wednesday, with departmental meetings to be held simultaneously in the afternoon. A reception to which stake board members and mission Relief Society presidents are invited will be held in the evening at the Hotel Utah. Both meetings on Thursday will convene in the Tabernacle and be open to the general public. The morning session from 10 a.m. to 12 noon will feature the conclusion of the Relief Society Building Fund program. It is expected that an official representative of every stake and mission achieving 100% or more of its Building Fund quota will be present and recognition given them. Gold bands to be worn by the official representatives, lettered with the name of the stake or mission, will be given the official representatives at nine o'clock in the Tabernacle on Thursday morning. The conference will be a time of rejoicing to the sisters everywhere.

The afternoon session in the Tabernacle will be addressed by members of the General Authorities and Relief Society general board members. This conference will be remembered as one of the most memorable occasions in the history of Relief Society, and it is the earnest hope of the general board that great numbers of Relief Society members from far away as well as nearby may be in attendance.

Stake presidents are requested to have their ward presidents announce the conference at the Relief Society summer meetings.

Page 598

The Russells Did Not Go to Church
Chapter 2 Edith Russell
Synopsis: The Russells, who live on the edge of the Haworth moors in England, do not go to church. However, the daughter Edith almost unconsciously seeks a religious faith to satisfy her spiritual longing. She decides to attend a meeting in the nearby church.

THE vicarage was a large, grim house setting its back against the wide, bleak vista of the Haworth moors. The door boasted no bell, but a great iron knocker. It was wet and chilly in my hand and I let it fall with a harsh metallic thud which seemed to place an intolerable weight upon my spirits. It seemed ages had elapsed before the door was opened and the thin, old face of a woman appeared to inquire my business.

"The Reverend Pratt asked me to come to a meeting of the new churchworkers' guild, tonight," I told her.

Hurriedly she opened the door wide enough to admit me. "Cum in! Cum in! afore all of us freeze to death!" I stepped inside. I heard the door close dully behind me and the old woman led the way down a dark, stone-flagged hall, to a room at the furthest end, the door of which she thrust open to announce: "A young leddy fer't meating."

I saw a group of perhaps a dozen individuals all sitting within the feeble glow of an oil lamp, all manifestly chilled by the gusty windswept night and the patent inadequacy of a small coal fire smoldering in the grate. I recognized two of the men as neighboring farmers and a large woman with a walking cane as a "ruling hand" in the village. No one spoke to me as I entered. Everyone was apparently awaiting the arrival of the vicar and the only sensation I seemed to evoke was one of general disappointment.

The reverend gentleman was late. One of the farmers took out his watch—a great silver timepiece with a sonorous tick—and consulted it grimly. "Five an' twenty t'eight an' 't parson noan 'ere yit! Ahm noan barn ta wait much longer." This he uttered in tones implying a serious threat. No one else spoke.

It needed but five minutes to eight o'clock when the outside door clanged again and a moment later, an icy draught blew a somewhat disheveled parson into the room. His perfectly white hair was wet and windblown as though he had walked far without a hat. His greetings were unexpectedly warm, effusive, almost, and after the previous frigidity manifest in the room, a trifle embarrassing. He walked briskly about the room, rubbing his hands, belatedly seeing to everyone's comfort, remembering everyone's name and calling each by it.

He was glad I had kept my promise to come. I thanked him for his courtesy. I was waiting to see what in him the villagers had stoned.

HE opened the meeting with a prayer. It was a fine, eloquent speech and it made me recollect that the man who offered it was something of a scholar; that he quoted Sassoon frequently from the pulpit and that he was writing an autobiography of the Brontes. I thought he was not unlike the Reverend Patrick Bronte, himself the same unrelenting eyes and thin mouth.

He finished his address to the Almighty with a request that Hannah Shuttleworth of Riddings Farm should be brought, by the whisperings of the Spirit, to realize her unworthiness to belong to St. Matthews since the birth of her illegitimate child, and thus save him, Parson Pratt, the necessity for dismissing her from the congregation.

I opened my eyes, prematurely, at this and found that everyone else, with the exception of Parson Pratt, had ceased trying to keep his closed long ago. They were looking at the devout gentleman, still in prayerful communion, with undisguised admiration. The parson's command of words impressed them visibly.

The object of our meeting had been the organization of a churchworkers' guild. The church needed workers, and so did Mr. Pratt, but he had a great respect for organization. There must be a leader and someone who could write letters and make tea. It was gently hinted, too, that there must also be a few members in such an organization who had "long stockings" or a mattress or some other personal hiding place where the rich and eccentric keep their inheritances.

"The whole thing must be efficiently run in the approved manner if it were to be a success," he answered. There must, of course, be a unity of feeling and purpose among the members. Everyone must lend his whole heart and soul to this first great project of the guild, which was the cleaning out and moral purging of St. Matthews.

"I'm sure you will all agree with me that it is in the best interests of the church," he answered referring to the afore-mentioned Hannah, "that such people should be disfellowshipped with all possible speed."

"Why don't yer turn 'er out, Vicar?" a woman's voice demanded. "Why doan't yer insult 'er an' let 'er knaw she's noan wanted?"

"I might yet, Mrs. Drake," he answered.

I might yet," Mr. Pratt said. A cold wind blew from the hall under the door at my feet and outside the great door swung a moment then clanged shut, causing the whole house to shudder. With ridiculous optimism it flashed across my mind that God had come; that he wouldn't stand for it a moment longer and had come to justify himself. I waited, one minute, two minutes but nothing happened; nothing except a voice, curiously like my own, voicing an aching, throbbing protest I thought I never could utter. "Mr. Pratt!" He was arrested in his perambulations. He stood looking down upon me, curious. "Mr. Pratt," I plunged, desperately, "I don't know anything about Christianity; lots of people don't. THE RUSSELLS DID NOT GO TO CHURCH but, but, supposing some poor unhappy soul were looking for Jesus and had been standing outside this room tonight, listening to all this, do you think it would have been any inducement for him to come in?" I knew it was appallingly weak, but I had an aching lump in my breast which pumped determination, a queer feeling of love, and the instinct to fight and give battle into every vein in my body. A dozen pairs of eyes focused themselves upon me. "I fear you have misunderstood me, Miss Russell," he replied, icily. "It is obvious that you are not aware of the character of some of these villagers. Nothing is sacred to them—neither the ornaments of the altar nor my person. Are you aware that one of them actually stole a candlestick from off the Easter altar?" I felt a fleeting surprise that this man had evidently never appreciated Hugo's Les Miserables. Otherwise, he would not have afforded me such an excellent opportunity to quote the classic example of the Bishop and Jean Val Jean. "The Bishop forgave Val Jean; made him a present of the candlesticks which he had stolen and brought another soul to God. You see," I told the furious vicar, "Val Jean could resist anything—cruelty, injustice, the beastliness of the galleys—anything at all, except love." The villagers are rough and many of them are ignorant," I said, "but they are not bad. They are like children who do not understand; who need to be shown. You do not love them, Parson Pratt. You have never even tried to understand them. 601 You despise their ignorance, you don't pity it or try to change it. Hannah Shuttleworth is not a wicked woman; she simply doesn't know any better and doesn't care to know because the people who have tried to teach her despised her first—despised her and condemned her. Christ forgave the woman who had sinned, he did not condemn her." I was awfully near to tears and I swallowed desperately and blew my nose. "Miss Russell!" The vicar's voice was bland again. "I am afraid you are too sentimental. You make Christianity sound like a love story...." "It is a love story, Mr. Pratt," I broke in, urgently, "The greatest ever told." THE Reverend Pratt ignored the interruption and surveyed me and the group of startled parishioners with a look depicting an attitude of magnificent fairness. "I can see you mean well," he conceded, generously. "You wish to serve God. But er, not here. You should give your talents to a city poor law mission. You would, I am sure, be very welcome there." The inference was obvious. A sense of defeat swept over me as I remembered the country folk of the village, their clean, old-fashioned homes, their uncultivated voices, their superstitions. They believed in God, but they didn't understand Sassoon. Looking into the faces of the now silent group, I waited for some feeling of bitterness to well up in my heart. But it didn't come. 602 Instead, all I was aware of was the unutterable pathos and tragedy of it all. I wondered what the world would be like if all the clever people could just learn to be kind. And it was suddenly borne upon me that God was here, after all. He must have slipped in once when the door clanged. I could not doubt it though I tried. His voice was in my ears; his love was swelling in my heart; the vision of him was in my eyes. "You understand, Miss Russell," Mr. Pratt was continuing, "we cannot ask you now to be a member of the guild after tonight. We must have unity of thought and purpose." I rose to my feet. A swift new joy surged through me—something exquisite I had not known before. I said: "Of course, I understand...." The great heavy door of the vicarage fell shut behind me as I went out into the night. A sense of peace enveloped me. The wind from the moors had blown the clouds into stormy battlements above me. God was waiting. (To be concluded) WONDERING YEARS Grace Sayre Time rests her hand; I feel the soft caress Of fingers laid upon me, as to bless The moment and the mood, while I may stand With head bowed to the brief touch of time's hand. Time lifts her hand and bids me look around To find myself released, my days unbound; All the dread that swept my wondering years Is left to time's vast urn of unshed tears. BUTTON MAGIC Marijane Morris The buttons that my mother left are mine. They hold enchanted, carefree hours of play. I know the secrets of each brave design  They are my mother's life in resume. These pearls once gleamed upon her wedding dress, She'd say, a smile remaining on her face. These baby buttons speak of blessedness And love that found its home the perfect place. Two from my father's shirt, ungainly pair; This odd one was a hero in my eyes; These wide ones stretched on winter underwear, All played my childish games in some disguise. Swift time can never quite escape from me, Because my mother's buttons hold the key. FOOD PRESERVATION Bernice Stookey Linford Thou shalt be diligent in preserving what thou hast, that thou mayest be a wise steward; for it is the free gift of the Lord thy God, and thou art his steward (D. & C. 136:27). ANNING IS STILL THE MOST WIDELY USED FORM OF FOOD PRESERVATION BOTH IN THE HOME KITCHEN AND IN COMMERCIAL FACTORIES. Yet each year many persons die from food poisoning as a result of poor canning methods due to carelessness or misunderstanding. Because the American people depend so much on canned products for their daily food, the United States Department of Agriculture has prepared for distribution a great variety of canning and other food preservation bulletins. The utmost care has been taken by specialists in testing and assembling this authentic material. Complete step-by-step directions and illustrations are included, which make canning safe and simple even for the most inexperienced. Single copies of these bulletins are free and may be obtained by contacting county extension agents or by writing the Office of Information, United States Department of Agriculture. Available publications are listed at the end of this article.

Your family needs will determine the specific bulletins you send for all are authentic and practical. Freezer lockers and home freezers are available to many. Frozen foods, if the best quality food is selected and proper methods used, are almost the equal of fresh foods. They may be of even better quality than fresh foods which have been shipped great distances and have become withered by exposure to heat and air. Speed and method of preparation from butchering and garden to quick freeze, quality of product, variety, and stage of maturity are all illustrated and explained in the bulletins on freezing listed, as are proper packaging and temperatures. Thawing and cooking methods are also given.

Salting and brining of meats and vegetables are very practical in rural areas where there is no electricity. Pork, corned beef, and fish are especially good salted or sugarcured. Dill pickles, spiced cucumbers, sauerkraut, green beans, corn, and various greens keep well and lose very little of their vitamins or mineral content if properly salted.

Our friends in Europe and countries where there is little or no refrigeration, where fuel and equipment for canning are scarce and storage space limited, would appreciate bulletins giving methods of drying fruits and salting and drying meats, fish, and vegetables. These preserved products take little space for storage, are high in minerals and vitamins, and add to the year-round calcium supply so necessary to health.

Stone crocks or jars or clean wooden kegs (which do not have wood odor) can be used for salting, and simple equipment is illustrated in the drying bulletins. Surplus eggs, too, should be preserved in water glass. Water glass (or sodium silicate solution) can be purchased in quart or gallon jars at any drug store. Use clean, unwashed fresh eggs. Put them into glass or stone jars or pickle kegs. Prepare the water glass solution as directed on the container.

If the natural protective film on eggs is removed by water or sandpaper, the shell becomes porous and the liquid is absorbed through the shell. The water glass solution forms a sealing film on the eggshell. If stored in a cool place, eggs will keep for months. There is no loss of vitamins or food value. In fact, eggs produced during the season of the year when chickens feed on green grass will contain more vitamins than winter-produced eggs, unless the hens are fed vitamin fortified feed.

One homemaker saved $45 in one season by buying fresh eggs in the spring when they were low in price and large end expansion, or when heated, Proper storage of foods is necessary. Canned foods should be stored where it is cool and dark. Store dried foods in insect-tight, covered, glass, tin, or any moisture-proof containers. If there is any danger of the products being contaminated by insects during drying, they should be heated from twenty to thirty minutes in a slow oven (165 F) before being put in containers, so that any eggs laid by the insects will be destroyed.

Frozen vegetables are best cooked without thawing. Frozen meats, poultry, and game should be thawed at room temperature in the package as frozen so there will be no exposure to air until unwrapped to cook. Fats, as pork, beef, mutton, and poultry may be tenderized at low temperature and poured hot into hot, clean containers then sealed airtight. Hot fat is of higher temperature. Fat thus prepared and sealed will stay fresh from five to eight years if kept in a cool, dark place.

Light destroys the vitamins in milk; therefore, milk should be kept where it is cool and dark. It should be placed in the refrigerator, cellar, or cooler as soon as possible after it is milked or delivered. If you have no refrigerator, bottled milk may be kept cool by wrapping it in newspapers wrung out of cold water and then wrapping a dry paper for extra insulation around the outside.

Lettuce and other fresh vegetables and fruits will keep fresh and crisp for several days by being wrapped first in damp paper, then tightly wrapped with ordinary newspaper. Tomatoes, squash, cucumbers, and other vine-produced vegetables will keep for weeks late in the fall if packed in dry sand. Cabbages, harvested in the fall, may be kept fresh until spring by packing them with the heads down in a trench dug in the garden. Pull up the cabbage plants by the roots and do not trim off the outer leaves of the roots. Dig a trench about eighteen inches deep in the garden; place the cabbages head down, roots up, and fill the trench in with dirt. If the cabbage should freeze, thaw it in cold water before cooking. It will taste like new cabbage.

Cabbage, Brussels sprouts, and other raw salad greens furnish the same protective vitamins as tomatoes, oranges, and grapefruit.

Root vegetables, as turnips, carrots, rutabagas, beets, potatoes, etc., keep for months in small garden pits. A pit large enough to hold the vegetables may be dug in the garden. Place boards or straw over the top as insulation, then cover the top with soil, leaving a small space for ventilation. Cover carefully again each time after opening the pit to prevent freezing of the remaining vegetables.

Garden seeds and practical information on preservation would be useful for sending also to families in Europe. Pitted, dried, and salted vegetables would insure year-round fresh food. Dried seeds, beans, peas, and whole grain cereals, with their life-producing germs, build tissue, bone, and blood. They supply the vitamins so necessary for the stability of the entire nervous system. Seeds could be raised in the home garden, gathered, and saved from year to year for replanting.

"Man is that he might have joy." Working in the soil, watching the miracle of life spring from planted seeds, anticipating maturity, gathering, sharing, and storing the harvest bring pride of achievement. These activities build new life—life abundant, with health and peace by the body, mind, and soul.

The following bulletins may be obtained from county extension agents or by writing to the Office of Information, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C.
Home Canning of Fruits and Vegetables—AIS-64
Home Canning of Meat—AWI-119
Home Freezing of Fruits and Vegetables—AIS-48
Pickle and Relish Recipes—AWI-103
Homemade Jellies, Jams, and Preserves—FB-1800
Preparation of Vegetables by Salting or Brining—FB-1932
Home Storage of Vegetables and Fruits—AWI-119
Freezing Meat and Poultry Products for Home Use—AWI-75
Beef on the Farm—Slaughtering, Cutting, Curing—FB-1415
Pork on the Farm—Killing, Curing and Canning—FB-1186
Lamb and Mutton on the Farm—FB-1367
Curing Pork—Country Style—AWI-106
Poultry Cookings—FB-1888
Meat for Thrifty Meals—FB-1958

A MATTER OF VIEWPOINT
Olive C. Wehr
I sent my Indian friend a dress, A gift for service due,
And on the card politely wrote, "I hope this dress fits you."
My Indian friend sent me a gift, Hand-wrought in time and love,
And with it came a little note, "I hope you fit these glove."

Questing Lights
Belle Watson Anderson
CHAPTER 6

Synopsis: Andrew Rumgay leaves his mother and his fiancée Jane Allison in Scotland and joins his friend Hugh Shand to emigrate to America.

They meet Mother MacKinlay and her son Bob, whom they had known while doing missionary work, and become acquainted with Kathleen Coleman and her friend Margaret Purvis. Hugh and Kathleen are married on board the ship. While in Iowa preparing for the handcart journey across the plains, Margaret tells Mother Mac she is in love with Andrew, and Kathleen tells the two women she is expecting a baby. While crossing the plains Andrew is lost in a blizzard, but is rescued by Margaret. She later leaves the Mac party and goes to Tooele to live. The Macs get settled in Zion. Kathleen and Hugh have a son and name him Mac Coleman Shand. Andrew begins farming and saving money to bring Jane over from Scotland.

THE crop was everything that Andrew had hoped it would be—many bushels of glowing, golden grain. "A wonderful combination," the young man observed, "the rich fertile soil of the bottoms, the gentle rains from heaven, Brother Hunter to plan and to organize, Brother Rumgay to do the work." As Andrew gazed at the wonder of the harvest, he felt the thrill of security pulling and tugging at his heartstrings. In King's Kettle he had led a day-to-day existence, working from sunrise till sunset for an amount that could barely keep body and soul together.

The wheat was wealth, great wealth, and although the young man knew that most of it must go for Jane's emigration, there would be many more summers and many more harvests. The milling company would buy his crop. They would give coal, flour, equipment, even sheep and cattle in exchange, but they had no money. He sold the grain, and waited to receive his pay in money.

Once again Andrew needed work. At this time of the year, the autumn, all of the men in the village were hauling their winter wood from the canyons. Andrew joined them and worked for weeks piling up winter fuel. He became acquainted with the loggers and learned about timbering. When the trees come down in the mountains, homes went up in the valley. Cities were built to the music of the swinging ax.

Andrew wanted a home. He could cut down the trees and pay to have them hauled to the sawmill, with the logs and lumber. So he threw his ax over his shoulder, and went into the deep, silent forest to work and to dream of a home for Jane. The high mountains were exciting, inspiring. Each day he worked knee-deep in graceful, ornamental ferns, grasses, and flowers. At night the men gathered around a bonfire to talk and to listen to the music of the guitar and mandolin, singing early American songs.

At times there were storms, heavy rains, with flashes of lightning, and the deep roll of thunder through the high mountains. In clear weather the stars shone through a roof of glossy leaves. It was autumn. The leaves and cones were falling; soon they would be buried under the snow.

Every weekend Andrew went into town for provisions, and to attend church. One Sunday afternoon he was at Mother's, trying to describe to her the wonderful beauty of the hills. He told her of a very comforting lesson he had learned from the trees. While he worked, and at night in the bight light of the fire as it blazed and crackled in the clearings, he had studied the trees. They all seemed beautiful in their dignity and stateliness, perfect in design and structure.

Then one day he had examined the trunk of the tree he was chopping and found it wasn't perfect at all, but very imperfect, revealing all the history of its life—accidents, storms, insects, and animals, even fire. The limbs and branches proved to be the same; some of them were even badly warped and twisted. He had been amazed that the trees were just as beautiful as before, but this time with perfections and imperfections.

He had thrown his shoulders back. There was hope for him. He would grow as tall and straight as possible, but now with the thought that the scars of his imperfections would not ruin the design of his Creator. "It is a very comforting thought," Mother agreed. "Andrew, my weaknesses have always worried me; they will continue to worry me. I will try to grow into the pattern God intended, with all my failings and shortcomings. It is the effort we put forth to grow tall and straight that fully as much as the results we obtain that counts. It puts strength into the roots."

Time passed, and with its passing came the reward of hard work and labor. Every spring new acres were broken up and more grain planted. Every autumn Andrew went into the forest to cut down timber. Three years had been a long time to wait for pay day, but the money came through at last, and Andrew sent it on to King's Kettle.

While he watched his growing treasure in the valley, the Macs and Hunter men finished the cabin. It looked like a palace. Log houses were comfortable, warm in winter and cool in the summer. He would not be able to get windows for awhile, but he had a big fireplace built in the east end—one of his very special dreams. Kathleen and Mother provided new rag carpets for the windows and rugs for the floor.

Evening would come in time. Andrew Rumgay was a very happy man. One afternoon Hugh went out to the farm to release Andrew for a few hours from his work. It had been a long time since Andrew had been to Resplendence. A letter had been left at Mother MacKinlay's for him, and he hurried to town, hoping for word from Jane.

The letter was from King's Kettle, but it wasn't from Jane. He discovered it was from the president of the branch. "Surely there is some mistake," Andrew said, holding the letter open in his hand. "How could the president send such a message?" He read it over and over. "It says that Jane Allison was married some 608 months ago, and is living in Dumfermline."

Andrew looked blankly at Mother Mac. "How could such a mistake have been made? It can't be true!" "But, my son, if the branch president wrote it, then it must be true." Mother Mac knew it was useless to postpone this inevitable shock. She placed her hand on Andrew's shoulder.

Andrew turned pale. He reached for Mother's rocker and sat down. "The president would not hurt you, son," she said. "It took Jane Allison to do that, and a fine job she's made of it. She might have been lady enough to have written herself." "No, Mother, no!" Andrew picked up his hat and walked out the back door.

MOTHER was stunned for a moment but decided this was no time to be thinking of herself. Something must be done for Andrew. Mother's husband used to say, "There's nothing for a sore heart like a tasty bite to eat." Andrew's favorite dish was a Scotch boiled fruit pudding.

She hadn't much time, but she hurried and got it on to boil. Andrew would also need a chicken dinner to go with the fruit pudding, Mother decided. But she was fond of her pullets. She had said not one of them should see the pot until its days of usefulness were over. But now, in this emergency, she sent Bob to kill and clean the fattest one in the coop. Then Bob went over on the sidehill and gathered some sage, and a round smooth rock. "What are they for?" Mother asked as her son brought them into the house. "Well, they are what we used on the plains in the snowdrifts," he replied. "This rock is a whopper." I don't know whether Andrew will weather this shock or not. Maybe it's ginger tea he needs. I just don't know what to do for him, but we can heat the rock for keeping Andrew's feet warm tonight." "There were other things we used on the plains, remember, son," Mother said. "A few prayers, and a lot of faith. I don't think we can help Andrew very much, but the Lord can and will. Perhaps you had better go to your bed early, not to sleep, but it will make it easier for Andrew." It was late when Andrew came in. He saw the pudding on the oven door, and smiled. "Now, just a potato, a leg of chicken, and a dish of pudding, son. Anyone could eat that," he said. "You killed a pullet, Mother, after all your warnings to us? Now what will you do for eggs this winter?" "Put cayenne pepper in the feed," she answered. "You are a wise Scotch wife. I hope the pepper works." After supper Andrew went to Bob's room and lay down on his bed. Mother followed to light the lamp. She placed it on the table. The look of trouble on Andrew's face nearly broke her heart. "I thought we were through the drifts," she said. "This one seems larger than the others, but it isn't. They all seem big enough until we get through them. Then we know they weren't so bad." Andrew made no answer. "Bob brought in some sage for soaking your feet, and a stone to keep them warm," Mother continued. "I put it on the stove in the kitchen and I'll make some ginger tea to warm up those cold lumps inside." Still Andrew said nothing. Mother Mac continued, undaunted, "I'm not through yet. I put some coal oil in the lamp and cleaned the chimney. Our lights are as bright as any in the other emigrant companies tonight. Shall we have prayers?" Mother arose, knelt by the bedside and prayed: "Help us through the snow. Our bins are full. We have plenty to eat, and lots of good wood in the yard to burn." She paused, choked with emotion when she remembered other days. She continued, "But we need your help, tonight, Amen." Tears were running down Andrew's cheeks. "The thaw," Mother exclaimed. "Let the tears come. They will soften those hard lumps inside." 

ANDREW decided to send the money, which he had saved for Jane's passage, to his family in Scotland. His mother did not want to leave the old home until all her children were married and settled down, but Andrew wanted the two youngest children to join him in America. Now he could take care of them, and he longed for someone of his own. Andrew returned to the wheat field. He had to take care of the crop. Work was greater than love. Jane was gone, but how very grateful he was that he still had work to do. Slowly the time passed. The grain matured and ripened. He began cutting it down with a scythe, slow and tiring work too slow. There was too much time to think, and to ponder. He worked alone. At this time of the year every man had more work than he could possibly get done. The days shortened. The nights grew longer, and longer, and darker. Threatening clouds appeared in the sky, then cleared away, but the man knew from the tang of frost in the air that winter was on its way. Sharp winds whined through the calm. The river shrank to a quiet trickle through the bottoms. Andrew listened and worked, grieved, and yearned for Jane. Sometimes the water composed and purled peaceful and understanding symphonies. It seemed to him that Jane had lived in this valley. At other harvests the golden grain had been the color of Jane's hair, the blue sky had symbolized her eyes, the luster of the sunshine her happy, gleaming smiles. But this was a harvest without a dream, a man without a sweetheart, a home without a wife. The river bottoms were very, very lonely.

(PAYMENT)

Merling D. Clyde

I like to do kind things for you. My fee is far above

The recompense of others. You pay me, dear, in love.

And so, for service given,

Your warming praises stem;

If they bring you happiness

I richly share in them.

Makes attractive Stuffed dolls and toys of many kinds.

Note the dignified penguin and the happy horse.

Ruth Harwood All life Should be fluidic, Should freely fly,

Save only spirit, Page 610

Margaret Peffer Makes Stuffed Toys

As a hobby, Margaret Peffer, former president of Louisville, Kentucky, Branch Relief Society, makes attractive stuffed dolls and toys of many kinds. Note the dignified penguin and the happy horse.

While Sister Margaret Peffer was the president of the Louisville, Kentucky, Branch Relief Society, she started making stuffed toys and dolls to sell at Relief Society bazaars. Most of the material she uses to make the animals and dolls comes from the scrap bag, except for the washable toys, and she buys this material by the yard, but she never uses old material. She uses clean cotton batting for stuffing, and the eyes are embroidered or buttons and beads are used. She makes the features with thread or embroidery work. In the past she has bought her patterns, but now makes her own. The work on these animals takes a lot of planning, and study; but it is very fascinating and is a good way to make a profit at the bazaar. At present Sister Peffer makes these toys only to sell at bazaars and as presents for her grandchildren and little friends. The dolls, horses, and Humpty-Dumpties seem to be the most favored among the children and they sell the quickest.

Risen Flame

Ruth Harwood All life should be fluidic,

Should freely flow upon the stream of time.

Save only man's one constancy.

Save only spirit's risen flame!

Page 610

Home Safe Home Leone O. Jacobs, Member, Relief Society General Board

The attitude of complacency with which we think of home is responsible for many of the accidents which occur therein. We think of home as a place to drop all our troubles and worries—the one place where we can completely relax. But often we relax too completely.

We must be alert to the hazards in our homes, for they are more common than we realize. We caution our children to be careful when they go out away from the home circle, when they are driving, or taking part in sports, or even in crossing the streets, but we seldom think it necessary to caution them of conditions in the home. Another reason for home accidents is the fact that we are so familiar with conditions in and around our own homes that we don't recognize them as dangers, or if we do, we feel sure we can successfully cope with them. Perhaps our basement stairs have been poorly lighted or without a handrail, for goodness knows how long, but every member of the family is so used to them he is sure he can descend blindfolded. Maybe mother has used a none-too solid stepladder for hanging curtains and washing woodwork for many years, but no disaster has ever happened, no one has fallen, so why not go on using it for several years more? Water has been dripping off the eaves onto the front steps and freezing there, for many winters, but no one has slipped or broken a leg, so why get excited about it? Sometimes people feel they just can't afford to have repair work done or new installations made, and it seems to be human nature to delay the remedying of faulty conditions until something serious occurs. They continue with slipshod practices until an accident does take place, then bemoan their lack of wisdom after the milk is already spilt. It is always economy to keep the home and its premises in good repair and in a safe condition.

There are many little practices which mothers, especially, should impress upon themselves until they are unconsciously aware of them at all times: handles of pans and kettles should always be turned in toward the stove, away from the reach of curious hands. Three-year-old David spent weeks of suffering in a hospital, and his parents spent hundreds of dollars and weeks of excruciating anxiety because David's mother left the handle of the pan in which she was making seven-minute cake icing, projecting over the edge of the stove. Avoid carrying hot liquids. Stair carpets should be inspected often to make sure they are securely fastened. Toys or other articles should not be left on stair steps. (Falls constitute the majority of accidents and fatalities in the home.) Disconnect electrical equipment when leaving it. Don't leave small children alone. Don't leave a small child in the bathtub while answering the phone or going on any other errand. It takes only a very short time, Page 611 and a very little water for a little one to drown. And no one can predict the length of telephone conversations. 'They may take only a moment, but again they may be ten or thirty minutes in length. Matches and poisons should be kept out of reach of children. Rightly, poisons should be kept under lock and key. In using new electrical, or other equipment, always read and follow instructions carefully. "The right way is always the safe way."

There are certain fallacies that must be overcome, also, if we are to prevent accidents. The National Safety Council lists them in the following order: 1. The attitude that "It can't happen to me." A terrible accident might happen to you, or you, or you, but it just wouldn't happen to me. What a mistaken ideal! A good slogan is: "Be careful, the life you save may be your own." 2. The attitude that "When my number's up, I'll go." This idea is fatalistic and is a denial of personal responsibility. Surely all the accidents that do happen, don't have to happen! 3. Relying on the law of averages to keep safe. 4. The idea that it is "sissified" to be careful.' Young people, especially, are guilty of this fallacy. 5. The idea that accidents are the price of progress that they are the price we pay for any advancement of science or industry and just one of those things we must accept. But figures prove that industry, through concentrated effort, has eliminated accidents to a surprisingly low figure far below the number that take place in the homes. 6. The idea that accidents are the price of sin. We often hear people say, "What have I done to deserve this?" While accidents may not be the price of what we term sin, they many times are the price of someone's carelessness or bad practices. It is an individual responsibility to guard not only one's life but the lives of others, as well.

Let us rid our minds of false notions and let us not relax beyond the point of safety in our homes.

Desert Rain
Eva Willes Wangsgaard

A day like this engenders gratitude. You hear the rain plink-plank a great guitar; you watch it fall where growing ponds include each singing drop to make a silver star. This is a day for walking. You can feel the rain's smooth fingers on your hands and face, and earth's resilience underneath your heel, where grasses spilling silver interlace. You swing off down the pathway, and the rain hangs silver fringes round you everywhere. Each stream-filled gutter is a silver lane as you stride onward breathing silver air. You rise above the city's sordid crowd and pace the silver lining of a cloud.

Photograph by Glen Perrins
Mount Kit Carson, near Spokane, Washington
Native Bear Grass in the foreground

September Day
Evelyn Fjeldsted

Oh, beautiful September day,
thy calm throughout the centuries
comes gently to the heart attuned
as quiet hours steal away.
Time is painting orchard wealth,
hills are veiled in mystery;
errant winds are whispering
selecting autumn drapery.

Thy peace is sweet, fade not away,
oh, beautiful September day.

Page 613

Sudden Storm
Carol Read Flake

H, what a beautiful morning!
Janet Harding caroled happily as she ran down the back steps with a pan of scraps for the dog. The world was filled to bursting with the glory of early summer—the iris bowing gracefully along the driveway, the willow tree sweeping the green carpet of lawn. Who could putter around with housework on a day like this? Besides, the flowers at the side of the house needed weeding. Janet's smile broadened at the intermittent clatter of the lawn mower around front. "That was Benny, just turned six, struggling to show his little sister that he, too, was big enough to mow the lawn." "Oh, what a beautiful da-a-y! Here, Ricky! Here, Ricky!" Janet set the pan of scraps on the ground, caught up the trowel that lay in the children's wagon, and rounded the comer of the house. "I have a wonderful fee...." The song froze on her lips. Across the hedge Marj Appleby was hanging a wash, her slight figure straightened, towel in hand, her eyes met Janet's. But only for an instant. Turning her back, she gave the towel a flip that sounded like a shot out of a gun.

Woodenly past the tangled flowers front of the house. "Mommie! Mommie!" Sharon screamed, dancing excitedly about.

Page 614

flamed and for a rooted to the she walked to the Benny and the mower. "See what Benny do."

"Oh, hush, Sharon. Stop that screeching," Janet answered irritably, sitting down on the warm cement step. "Benny, get away from that machine."

The boy's mouth fell open. "But Mom I'm mowing the lawn. You told Daddy it gotta be mowed." 

Janet was not listening. With her chin cupped in her hands she gazed absently beyond the children, her brown eyes troubled, her heart a choking weight within her.

For over a month she had been unable to see Marj or even think about her without this awful sick feeling. They hadn't spoken to each other in all that time. And once they had been so close, running into each other's homes without knocking, walking to the grocery together, keeping each other's children while one went to town.

Oh, it was ridiculous that things had come to this stage. But I apologized, Janet reminded herself for the hundredth time. I fell all over myself trying to make amends. She's the one who refuses to speak.

A flock of blackbirds zoomed out of the blue and settled on the hedge for a moment's noisy chatter. Beautiful day! Janet sprang up and went inside, letting the screen door bang behind her.

THE living room was dark to eyes that had been staring into sun. She jerked at down on the light. It was chilly. The drapes and sank SUDDEN STORM davenport in a patch of sunshine. 

It was right here, she remembered miserably, that she had been comfortably dozing when Marj telephoned. "I've sent Benny home," Marj announced, her voice shrill. "I don't mean to make trouble, Janet, and I hope you won't be mad, but really! He and Martin were playing on the back porch and Benny brought Ricky in. He got to jumping around and knocked over the table where I keep my potted plants broke them to pieces. My azaleas, that I've just been nursing along."

"Oh, Marj," Janet moaned. They had bought their azaleas at the same time. "Marj, I'm just sick. I'll give you mine. They're not nearly so..."

"OH, they're just plants, but really." Benny appeared in the kitchen, inching along the sink, his small face twisted with silent weeping. He cast an unhappy glance at his mother and moved out of sight.

"Benny will certainly be punished," Janet promised hotly. "T'll be over in a few minutes, Marj." Janet hung up and advanced upon her son. "Benjamin Harding, I could just I've told you a dozen times to stay out of Appleby's house. And Ricky...." Benny stepped backward. "Mama," he pleaded, "I didn't take Ricky in there. I didn't. It was Martin who whistled him in. He had a ball he was makin' him jump after." His lower lip quivered.

Janet scowled, somewhat mollified. She was visualizing Marj Appleby scolding him, sending him home "Benny Harding, you take this dog of yours and get outa here. I'm gonna call up your Mama right now!" 

"OH, Benny," the boy sobbed against her, "Ricky broke all her nice plants, darling. You shouldn't have been in there at all, I've told you, Benny." Benny raised his face. "You said not to go in the house, Mama. Is the porch the house, is it, Mom?" Janet stood biting her lip. "I don't know," she answered absently. "I'm going over there now."

MA8J had been sweeping up dirt, and greeted Janet with an annoyed flourish of her arm. "Isn't this a fine mess?" Janet bent and began picking up pieces of pottery. "I'll replace all these pots," she said quietly, "and any of the plants I can." 

"Oh, indeed you won't. I have empty pots in the basement and the plants will all grow again. It's just that oh, they were doing so well." "I know." Janet waited. Then, "Benny said Martin let the dog in."

Marj stopped sweeping. "Martin," she called, "did you let that dog in here?" 616

RELIEVE SOCIETY MAGAZINE SEPTEMBER 1948

Martin came to the doorway, glanced defiantly at the women. He was sick. In his first year at school.

"Course not," he answered. "Ricky won't mind anybody but Benny."

Marj shrugged and went on with her sweeping. "Well, it doesn't matter who let him in, he did a fine job breaking up my plants."

Janet stared at her. It doesn't matter!" She wanted to cry. So it didn't matter that she had humiliated her son, broken his heart.

She turned abruptly. "I'll see that Benny doesn't come again. He does..."

"Oh, now, Janet," Marj broke in longheartedly. "There's no need for that. He and Martin play so well together."

"He disobeyed me by coming inside at all." Janet finished. "He'll never do it again." She closed the door firmly behind her as she went out.

It was Benny who reported the incident to his father. Janet thought Ben unusually harsh on the boy for his disobedience. But she was completely unprepared for his reproof of her later in the evening.

"The trouble with you, Janet," he told her, "is that you have confused the issue. The real cause of the fuss is Ricky, not Benny. It was the dog Marj wanted to get rid of and she had to send Benny home to do it. Your sympathy was all with Marj until you learned it was probably Martin who let the dog in. Then you imagined some great injustice had been done, when as a matter of fact, it was just as Marj said, it isn't who let him in, but the damage he did by being in. You've apologized for that and offered reparation, which was refused. That should be an end of the matter. There's nothing to be so upset about that I can see."

Janet glared. "Thank you so much, Judge Harding, for your esteemed opinion of the case," she said acidly and flung away from him.

Ben caught her hand, laughing. "Oh, now, honey, I know it isn't quite that simple. I wasn't trying to minimize your hurt, or Benny's. But Benny and Martin will have forgotten this thing by morning. It's you and Marj who must see what a small thing it is before it goes any further. Go see her tomorrow. Everything will be all right.

NEXT morning when Janet ran out to bring in the paper, Marj, as it often happened, was just leaving to drive her husband to work. She looked right at her. Janet was positive about that; but before she could speak, Marj had turned back quickly to close the door. Any other day Janet would have called out a cheery good morning, regardless. But this morning, self-consciously, she refrained. All day she fretted about the incident.

The next morning was almost an exact repetition. Marj made a great business of pulling on her gloves and closing the door, giving Janet ample time to pick up the paper and return inside. After that, Janet sent Benny for the paper. And that was the beginning of many awkward evasions that were making life miserable for her.
Such as last week when Benny had his sixth birthday, such an important anniversary to a little boy, and she hadn't given him a party simply because she hadn't the heart either to invite or exclude Martin, SUDDEN STORM his favorite playmate. For, of course, the little boys continued playing blissfully together, just as Ben had predicted. Ben! Janet started guiltily. He was due home for lunch this minute, and here she sat. From the kitchen window she watched as he turned in the driveway. Across the lot she saw Marj Appleby backing out of her garage. Of course. This was Friday. Marj always drove out to her mother's on this day. Often Janet and the children rode along. Wouldn't today be perfect for a drive in the country? Well, at least she could take care of those poor flowers. She had neglected them all these weeks because they were on the side of the house next to Appleby's!
"Hi, honey," Ben greeted her, coming in with Sharon on his shoulders and Benny clinging leach-like to his leg. He deposited his little daughter in her high chair and beamed proudly at Benny. "Well, Mama, I see you have a gardener to help keep up the place. Did you notice the front lawn?" Janet managed a tight little smile. Keeping up the place was often a touchy subject in the Harding household. "He worked real hard at it," she conceded. "But, oh, Ben, there's so much to be done here. The hedge needs trimming and my pansies...." She paused, then plunged on impulsively. "Ben, why don't we sell this place while prices are up? We could get by on a place with half this yard space, get a place closer in or farther out...." Her voice trailed off uncertainly as she became aware of Ben's openmouthed expression. "Sell?" he repeated. "Why, Janet, I thought you considered this place ideal. I know I don't have much time for the yard, but you said yourself we needed plenty of room so we could add to the house as our family increased." Janet bit her lip and bent quickly to tie Sharon's bib. Somehow she did not want to meet Ben's gaze.
The children did most of the talking at the table. As Ben finished his dessert he remarked casually, "I saw Marj leaving for her mother's. Doesn't she ask you to go along any more?" Janet gave him a quick glance. "I have a lot of work to do outside," she evaded. She felt an unaccountable resentment toward her husband. Was he being callous or caustic? She made no move to walk out to the car with him as she usually did and he did not come around the table to kiss her. At the door he turned. "I can ask Browning and Bates how much this place should bring." Then he added pointedly, "You know, you can move away from your neighborhood, but you can't move away from yourself."
Janet stared after him, feeling her face grow scarlet. She squeezed her eyes tightly over the hot tears and left the table abruptly so the children would not see. Almost mechanically she did the dishes, put Sharon down for her nap and went out to the pansy bed. She found no joy whatever in her work. The bursting enthusiasm of the morning that had thrust all thought of Marj Appleby from her mind had dissolved into a spirit of listless dejection. She felt all bogged down in a situation that would not better itself with the mere passage of time. Rather it had grown worse. She had spoken thoughtlessly at noon, and now Ben was hurt and displeased with her. His words still stung: You can't move away from yourself.
Oh, Ben, she pleaded in her heart, what am I going to do? She had waited too long to follow his suggestion. After all this time, could she go to the Appleby door and say, Marj, can't we forget this thing between us, can't we be friends again? No, she could not.
The sun disappeared. Janet glanced up and was mildly surprised to see that the western sky had grown murky. Rain again. She rose stiffly and went inside. Sharon needed covering. Crossing to her own room, Janet stood contemplating the little half-finished pinafore. She was in no mood for sewing. Restlessly she walked through the rooms. It was growing darker. An elusive brilliance darted in and out of the house.
Janet went to the back door and called to Benny, but her voice was lost in the explosion of thunder. She ran down the steps and around the house, her skirt billowing in a sudden gust of wind. Benny was tugging at the lawn mower. "Never mind, Mom," he vowed. "I can get it in the garage." "Well, hurry, dear. It's going to pour in a minute." She turned back. Then she stopped. "Oh!" she gasped, and darted across the lawn and through the opening in the hedge.
A splinter of lightning was hurled across the horizon. "The next will bring rain," Janet mumbled into Marj's crisp, whipping sheets as her fingers groped for the clothespins. Back in her own kitchen Janet set about preparing dinner. The children cluttered the floor with their blocks, the eaves of the house dripped monotonously after the downpour. But a song rose to Janet's lips as she contentedly pared potatoes at the sink. She felt refreshed and at peace with herself, a peace she had not known in a long while.
For Janet had reached a decision. It was a simple decision, one she had stubbornly rejected all these weeks. It had come to her after she had hurried with the last armful of clothes into Marj's kitchen and piled them with the others on the table. She brought a basket from the porch and pressed into it all the pieces that had tumbled to the floor. The sheets and towels she folded, making a neat stack upon the drainboard.
And as she worked, there in Marj Appleby's kitchen that was almost as familiar to her as her own, Janet experienced again the warmth and intimacy of their long friendship, remembering their little acts of helpfulness for each other, small services gladly given. The rain swept in gusts against the windowpanes and Janet glanced out of Marj's window across the way to her own home, the Harding home. In that moment it was almost as if she were Marj Appleby, and Janet knew with startling clarity that Marj was as deeply hurt and wretched over the whole affair as she herself was.
It was then Janet had made her decision.

She promised herself that the minute Marj returned, the very minute, mind you, she would run out and throw her arms about her Sudden Storm and tell her what a stubborn, stupid horrid person she had been. And Ben, dear Ben, she could hardly wait to tell him the same. She had raced home through the rain, her heart singing. Janet stopped humming and leaned far over her sink so she could watch the street, watch for Appleby's car. Why, there it was now, in their driveway. She heard a quick sound on the porch. The kitchen door burst open. Marj Appleby stood there, her eyes brimming. "Janet.... My clothes...." "Marj!" The paring knife dropped to the floor. "Oh, Marj," Janet cried as they rushed into each other's arms. They were both crying and trying to talk at the same time. Finally they had to stop and they stood back, laughing at themselves.

Later, as they were chatting beside the hedge, their children and Ricky romped about the lawn. Everything had the green, fragrant freshness that follows a sudden summer rain, and the sun's low rays filled the world with that special mellow glow. Janet heard a car on the gravel and turned eagerly, joyfully. Ben stepped from the car, his face reflecting the sun's golden light as he smiled at the two women across the lawn. "Ben," Janet called happily, waving her arms in a sweeping gesture that took in their house, the yard, the whole world, "Oh, Ben darling, isn't this a beautiful evening!"

BETWEEN FRIENDS
Mabel Jones Gabbott

Last night we disagreed;
And though the cause was slight,
I found no peace at all
Until we talked it right.

Today, the threads that link
Our hearts and bind our need
Are stronger than before
Because we disagreed.

HOMECOMING
Josephine J. Harvey

He saw all the dear, familiar things
That had not changed while he had been away,
And deep within his heart he knew
How good it was, to be back home to stay.

He turned to her who stood beside him,
Whose lifted face was waiting for his kiss.
Her love his beacon light would never dim
He thought: God meant heaven to be like this.

Plain and Savory
NEW RECIPES FOR FAMILIAR FOODS
Sara Mills

F broiled steak and fried chicken aren't compatible with your budget, don't get discouraged. There are still good things to be had.
Some of the world's best dishes had their origins in the cookery of folk who had to make plain food savory and nourishing.
One such dish I herewith christen savory cabbage rolls. Up until now it has graced our table unnamed.
It is served on gala occasions when our guests are specially appreciative of good food. Fine fare it is also for the family.
If it isn't eaten in one meal, it is even better the second day. Six to eight persons may be served from it.

To round out savory cabbage rolls into a complete meal, add only a salad and a dessert.
For balanced vitamins and an artistic effect, you may like to serve a yellow vegetable with the meal.
Carrots, shredded and baked in a covered dish, are good. Frozen cut corm is another easy and pleasing vegetable to serve.

If you have been with me these past months, you know that I favor fruit for dessert.
If I serve a fruit dessert, I let the salad be a green, tossed one. But if I serve cake, I make a fruit gelatine salad.
Along with some hot dinner rolls or some French bread, oven-toasted with garlic butter, a splendid meal awaits.

SAVORY CABBAGE ROLLS
1 large head of green cabbage (or two smaller ones)
1 pound ground lean beef, either chuck or round, but lean
Y% pound ground lean pork
1 generous teaspoon chili powder
1 teaspoon or so grated onion
1 teaspoon Worcestershire sauce
1 clove garlic minced (optional)
dash of Tabasco sauce
1 cup uncooked rice, preferably brown
salt and pepper to taste
pulp from 1-quart can tomatoes
juice from 1-quart can tomatoes
1 small can tomato sauce (optional)
a pinch of basil

First remove the core from the head of cabbage.
Place the cabbage in a covered pan containing a cup of water and let cook until the leaves begin to soften.
Then remove the cabbage from the water. Meantime prepare all the other ingredients except the tomato juice and basil by mixing them together in a large bowl. Make sure that you have plenty of salt.

Place a spoonful of the mixture in the center of a cabbage leaf and fold envelope-wise, securing the leaf with a toothpick.
Set the rolls gently in a large, heavy kettle, preferably one with a rack, or in an electric casserole, if you are lucky enough to own one. Pour the tomato juice over the cabbage rolls; add salt and pepper and the pinch of basil; cover and let steam for at least two hours.

After the dish has steamed awhile, I like to add the tomato sauce, or a portion of it.
The trick in cooking is to simmer the rolls gently and get just the right amount of liquid for serving. If you get too little, the dish is dry, too much, and the quality isn't right.
You may, if necessary, add extra juice, a little chili sauce, or even water.

Serve this dish in the electric casserole or transfer it to a large, heated platter. Then wait for the reactions.

My second special meat dish is Lamb Stew, spelled with capitals.
This is no ordinary lamb stew such as legend connects with boarding houses or hasty cooks.
It-is a PLAIN AND SAVORY delectable dish, good enough for any company or Sunday dinner.
The cheapest cuts of lamb are used. And you will do well to remember that the origin of this dish is French.

LAMB STEW
2 pounds lamb cut in small pieces (neck, shoulder, or breast cuts)
10 or so small white onions or one medium sliced onion
2 tablespoons flour
3 cups meat stock or 3 cups water and 3 bouillon cubes
salt and pepper
1 flavor bouquet (1 small bay leaf, 1 sprig thyme, 6 sprigs parsley and 3 sprigs celery leaves, tied with thread)
1 clove. Garlic
1 cup tomato puree
3 carrots, diced
% pound cut green beans
% pound green peas
2-3 potatoes sliced
1 small can mushrooms (or fresh, if you have them)
1 tbsp. Chopped parsley for serving
cheese and parsley dumplings (optional)

Sear the lamb pieces, with fat trimmed off, until all sides are browned.
Bacon drippings are good for this. Season with salt and pepper and add the onions, peeled, or peeled and sliced, and cook until they are well browned.
Drain off all the fat and put the mixture in a stew pot or large earthen casserole.

Now sift the two tablespoons of flour over the meat and mix well.
621

Next add gradually the three cups of stock and the cup of tomato puree, the clove of garlic, salt and pepper, and the bouquet, which you have previously tied with a thread. Bring the mixture to a boil, then let it simmer slowly for about an hour. Then add the diced carrots, the potatoes, the string beans, and peas, along with the mushrooms and let simmer until the vegetables are tender. Taste also for seasoning. Remove the bouquet and serve on a heated, deep platter with the parsley dusting the top of the stew. If you like dumplings, drop them onto the stew about twelve minutes before the dish has finished cooking. Add a handful of chopped parsley and 1/3 cup grated cheese to your favorite dumpling recipe. Or you may prefer a shortcut to dumplings. Mine is to mix a half cup of milk with a cup of prepared waffle flour and season with the cheese and parsley. Remember not to remove the lid while the dumplings are steaming. Serve a fruit salad with this Lamb Stew or a dessert of fresh fruit and cheese.

OMNIPOTENCE
Jeanette P. Parry

I saw the yellow moon above the clouds
That climb into the blue of peaceful skies,
A silence filled the woods like huddled sheep,
Save when the crimson leaves fell down to sleep.
There was no afterglow of summer life,
Only the flash of a late robin's breast;
I saw the grass, frost-browned at winter's will,
The rivulets that trickled cold and still.

I was not troubled that skies were leaden
And leafless aspens graced the frost-touched hills,
A Power greater than our own bestows
The miracle of crimson woods and snows.