The Harbor of Truth
By Lella Marler Hoggan
"God is not foiled: the drift of the World Will Is stronger than all wrong. Earth and her years, Down Joy's bright way or Sorrow's longer road, Are moving toward the Purpose of the Skies."*
MAN is demanding more from life today than he even dared to request in ages past. He wants more than the necessities of life, more than the comforts and luxuries. He wants security. He wants assurance that not only he and his children, but all humanity, shall have an abundance of the gifts and blessings that make life rich and beautiful. He is coming to realize that physical comfort alone does not satisfy the soul. The heart hungers for something more than the values that are passed across counters in exchange for coins. The world is in quest of fundamentals. Men are beginning to "price-tag the values of life." They are searching for something that will bring permanent satisfaction, enduring joy. Where will they find the answer to their quest? "Is there a logical scheme of government," we ask ourselves, "that will satisfy the human heart? Is there some touch-stone that will bring peace to the soul?" From every field of endeavor comes the cry, "Lo here" and "Lo there." The scientist is searching for the answer that he is assured will come out of the laboratory. The educator is juggling the philosophies of life in hope of securing the right combination. The grafter is marking the lottery ticket for an "easy break." *By Edwin Markham.
MANKIND is in a turmoil of unrest. He is questioning, doubting, fearing, discarding past traditions, searching for new frontiers, listening to blind forebodings of disaster and chaos. Walking in his own strength he is fast outgrowing his own philosophy. His vaunted theories for universal peace and brotherhood, one by one, are meeting failure and being cast on the scrap heap. But out of the maze of confusion and heartache we are gathering dreams of romance, bits of song, fragments of truth that we are building into our temple of dreams. The value we place on our treasures changes with the changing years, and we toss out the old to give room for the new. Thoughts we accept with assurance today, may be labeled a menace to progress tomorrow. We find ourselves all at sea. With troubled spirits and questioning hearts we are hurried along the highway of life to a faltering goal. "By what light," we ask ourselves, "were other generations guided? For great men and good, down the years, have walked with sure feet and a clear vision. Why should we stumble in the darkness?" The answer is written in large letters across the scrolls of the past if we will but open our eyes to read. Life is not a hazardous aim in the darkness. There is purpose back of THE HARBOR OF TRUTH the whole tragic drama, a guiding spirit that is shaping the destiny of man.
THOSE whom time has haloed as teachers of truth?the prophets, the poets, the heroes?have all followed a light, the eternal light of faith. Hanging high in a sacred shrine, its gleam spreads out across the darkness to guide men to a safe landing in the Harbor of Truth. Moses did not question the divinity that led him into the Land of Promise. Nephi was not lured from his charted course by any false philosophy. Washington and Lincoln followed, without argument, the star of destiny set for them. It was not a faltering light that illuminated the rugged path of our pioneer ancestors across the continent. It was a steady gleam that led to a sure goal, the gleam of eternal truth. The pioneers gave the strength of their being in devotion to its cause. We are heirs to the heritage of that great devotion. The same harbor light that guided them to a safe landing is shedding its hallowed rays into the darkness of this troubled age. That torch of truth which the Master lighted shines into the highways and byways of life. Guided by its light, humanity will move on, not to defeat, but to eternal triumph. Only last year, Marconi, "the Wizard of the Wireless," announced his convictions: "Science is hardly more than the dim light of a pocket lantern in the black forest through which mankind painfully gropes its way to God. Only faith can bridge the gulf between man and infinity." In the turmoil and confusion of the present day, let us not lose our way. Let us go bravely on building our temple of dreams. But let us make sure that we carry into it no blurred ideals, no vain philosophies of men?only treasures of truth. Let us hold fast to that divine gleam as it streams from the Harbor of Truth. It will supply us with strength and wisdom for our daily task; it will hearten us for any hour of anguish we may have to meet; it will be a singing melody in the dawn; a prayer of peace in the darkness; a radiant joy to carry with us into eternity.
*Nautilus Magazine, 1911 ? Holyoke, Mass. **"Faith Is Man's Bridge To Infinity," by George Sylvester Viereck?Liberty Magazine, May 23, 1937. New York. Quotations used by special permission of publishers.
For This
By Anna Prince Redd
God gives us life for just a while To shape, to mould, to beautify, To meet with courage and a smile, To trust in Him and glorify His name, and honor all His ways; Then calls us, singly and alone, To reap the measure of our days, And bears each upward to His throne.
The Lord's Day
By Jane Romney Crawford