Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon CTOBER?A bountiful harvest rejoiceth the husbandman be he a tiller of the soil or a diviner of righteousness. MOST interesting city is Alexandria, Virginia. Here are many homes of early Colonial history, but what endears the city to the hearts of the people is that here is Christ Church of classic structure where George Washington came to worship and commune. On the old minute books of the Parish Vestry is his signature as he paid for his family pew and among the Vestry relics is the Washington family bible. Within these hallowed walls the last rites for him were said before he was taken to his burial. Dr ERIKA RICKLI has been entrusted by the Swiss Association of Statistics and Political Economy with the task of compiling an Encyclopedia of Economics of 600 pages for the National Exhibition of Switzerland, to be held in 1939. CORNELIA OTIS SKINNER has again taken up the legitimate drama. She calls her character sketches, as a monologist, "a kind of missing link between lecture platform and the stage." Miss DORIS STEVENS, chairman of the Inter-American Committee of Women, was recently decorated by the Argentine Woman's Suffrage Association and presented with a scroll containing the flags of the 21 American Republics for her 10 years' service in behalf of Hispanic-American women. MARIJORY HOPE NICOLSON, dean of Smith College, says women have not yet accomplished much in scholarship. She gives as one reason that women are over-conscientious and that their own faults keep them from great accomplishments in the more abstract fields. In spite of these statements, tests made in the laboratory of the Stevens Institute indicate that women executives excel men. SIGRID UNSET, Nobel prize winner, and Margaret Ayers Barnes, both Pulitzer prize winners, are offering new books this fall, "Images In A Mirror" and "Wisdom's Gate" respectively; Mary Merrill Miller offers "First The Blade," a wonderful western story, and Margaret Bell, "Women Of The Wilderness," a story of early New England; "Tomorrow's Promise," by Temple Bailey, "Thrice a Stranger," by Vera Brittain, "The Mortal Storm," by Phillis Bottome, and "Mr. Despondency's Daughter," by Anne Parish, are all powerful novels by women writers, and then the attractive Anne Morrow Lindberg's new novel, "Listen The Wind," with Phyllis Bentley's "Sleep In Peace," Frances Parkinson Keyes' 'Parts Unknown" and Helen Topping Miller's "Never Another Moon" all show what a rich store of good books is awaiting the opening of the women's clubs for entertainment and review. Relief Society Dividends By Amy W. Evans "Go out, my friend, to a broader, nobler, happier life than you have ever lived before. 'The freer step the fuller breath, The wide horizon's grander view, The sense of life that knows no death, The life that maketh all things new.' MRS. SMITH lived in a small M railroad town where the 7 Latter-day Saints were in the minority. She was a convert to the Church from England and entered eagerly into all Church activities since coming to Utah fifteen years before. Especially was she fond of the Relief Society work, and was the Literary class leader in the ward organization. By her enthusiasm for and study of this subject, she created in the women of her class a love for good reading and thereby opened new avenues for intellectual development and growth as well as a new source of worth while entertainment for them. On one occasion when she visited the local high school where her daughter was a student, she met the teacher of English. During the conversation Mrs. Smith talked of literature, displaying such a breadth of understanding and information that the teacher finally said to her, "May I ask, Mrs. Smith, in what school you taught literature?" To Mrs. Smith's reply that she had never taught school the teacher then wanted to know what college she had attended. "T left school and went to work in a factory when I was fourteen years of age. It was necessary for me to help support the family. We were ?Henry Van Dyke. In England then and I never had an opportunity to attend school after that time. My knowledge of literature and other subjects has been obtained through courses of study offered by my Church." She then explained the program of the Relief Society and showed the teacher the Magazine, offering to lend it to her. In a short time the teacher asked to borrow the next month's issue, as she had found the Literary lessons so helpful to her in her class work. Each month thereafter until the close of school Mrs. Smith sent her magazine to the teacher. When they were returned the teacher said she had paid well in college for a course in literature that was no better than the one offered by the Relief Society. She was greatly surprised that the Mormon people were so progressive, and since knowing the educational standards of the Relief Society she had the greatest respect for the Latter-day Saints. Mrs. Smith is one among hundreds of women who has found satisfaction for her hunger for culture through participation in the Relief Society educational program and in her mature years acquired a knowledge of many subjects which otherwise would have remained unknown to her. The lives of all these women have thus been greatly enriched and they 610 in turn have been able to enrich the lives of many others. FoMILY was very different from Mrs. Smith. She graduated from college and had many opportunities in the city for further study if she had been so inclined. She felt that the Church could offer her nothing in that respect. In fact she had an idea that she had outgrown religion, and was rather drifting around in an effort to form a philosophy of life which would satisfy her. She had no very definite idea of real values and was somewhat "adrift in the sea of her own logic." After teaching school for two years she married rather well from her point of view and entered into an active social life. A few years of this left her restless and dissatisfied. Somehow she had a sense of aimlessness and futility. It was at this period that she became friendly with one of her neighbors. This woman was always so busy and cheerful that Emily was greatly attracted to her. One day she asked Emily to go to Relief Society with her. At first Emily was quite amused at the idea as she had always had a feeling that only old women went there and that the work they did was dull and uninteresting. But when her friend said the Social Service lesson would be_ given, knowing that Emily had majored in sociology in college, Emily became interested and to please her friend went. The result was that she attended again and in a few months was assisting the class leader. At the end of the season she was asked to fill the position for the coming year. "To be a class leader," she said after some months' work, "is like going to college again. I have studied and read more widely on the subject of sociology than I did at the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE university. But best of all I feel that I have really helped others to appreciate and understand this most important subject of human associations, and I have made_real friends. My husband came to hear ine present the subject at Ward Relief Society Conference. He seemed quite proud of me, and is really becoming interested in the Church again too. This work has given new savor to my life. I do not have that feeling of being lost at sea any more, but I feel 'anchored to a deeper world.' I am beginning to see what constitutes the formula for happiness." MES. JONES' husband was a man of considerable wealth. She had therefore one of the most spacious and well furnished homes in the community. With both her own and her husband's parents well to do and prominent people, she had every opportunity to become a social leader in the city. She chose instead to be the president of the Ward Relief Society, much to the disappointment of some of her friends, who thought she was just burying herself in dull prosaic work, as with the care of her family she would have no time for anything else. Mrs. Jones was not an aggressive woman but she was very intelligent and took her position seriously. She worked quietly and unobtrusively, visiting the sick and looking after the needs of the poor. Many and many a night she left her comfortable home to go where there was illness or death among the people of the ward. She was a good organizer and planned so well that there was always on hand clothing and supplies to meet any emergency. The young mothers of the ward received her constant attention. She had many ways of getting them interested in Relief Society as she was RELIEF SOCIETY DIVIDENDS convinced that the courses in child guidance and homemaking would be of great value to them. There were many foreign women in the ward and for them she planned special things. There seemed to be no one whom she forgot. As time went on she became recognized as an outstanding woman. In her work for others she had developed her own latent abilities. She became a woman of courage and magnanimity. People looked to her for leadership in public and civic affairs, and her services and sponsorship were sought. She was asked to be president of the Parent-Teachers' Association and other organizations. Her friends were legion and most loyal. The love of her neighbors 611 and co-workers she valued most highly. "Beautiful friendships tried by sun and wind Durable from the daily dust of life." Thus through her choice of the Relief Society work she obtained what her more worldly friends feared she would forever lose, a development of personality and powers which made her a real leader, a force for good in her Church and in her community. She indeed went out to a "broader, nobler, happier life." These three women are representative of hundreds of others who have received dividends beyond price through sincere and continuous work in the Relief Society.