Notes from the Field By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary Oahu Stake HE reports of activities in Relief Society received from Oahu Stake are interesting and stimulating. The Saints are bending every effort to build a beautiful Stake and of self-expression in which they delight. Six wards and five branches participated. In many of the groups it was a joy to see the way the young women supported their mothers. The picture below is of the Kalihi KALIHI WARD RELIEF SOCIETY Waikiki Ward tabernacle in which Relief Society is to have a special room. The Anniversary Celebration on March 17, 1938, took the form of an entertainment to further this cause. Months in advance, the Relief Societies of all wards and branches were invited to participate in a song contest. A song was selected for each group in addition to one of its own choice. Such a contest is particularly fitting for Hawaii as nearly all of the people love to sing, and do it very well. Music is a form Ward which won first prize. All the groups did excellent work and gave a most artistic and inspirational entertainment, followed by a social hour. On June 30 the Oahu Stake Board sponsored a delightful Daughters' Day program in which music formed an important part. A splendid talk was given by a young gir] whose mother is dead. It was a tribute to mothers and a plea to daughters to more fully appreciate their mothers while they have them. Each mother was presented with 618 a lei and the expression of love was sealed by a kiss. Those mothers who had no daughters present were not forgotten. Relief Society President, Sister Salm, expressed her appreciation of Relief Society and of her co-workers. President Ralph E. Woolley of the Oahu Stake thanked the sisters for their support of the welfare work and for their willing assistance in every worthy cause. A generous plate supper was served followed by a colored moving picture taken by President Castle Murphy of the Hawaiian Mission. A delightful operetta presented by the daughters of the Kalihi Ward concluded a very full and happy day. Sharon Stake HE Membership Drive in the Sharon Stake was officially launched on August 9 by a summer outing in which more than two hundred and fifty women participated. A chart was prepared by the stake Work and Business leader, Merle Foote, showing the progress of the organization up to the present and the space to be filled by 1942. It was a large drawing of two beautiful book ends, one representing a Relief Society member at the first meeting, and the other, a member today. The books between were some of those studied during the years, with an occasional roll book showing the increase in membership. It is a very effective drawing and can be used at various entertainments to show the increase. Each ward was given its quota for the year, which, it is hoped, will be filled at an early date. The slogan, "Members old, members new, one hundred thousand by '42", was the subject of many original songs and skits, each ward supplying one number on the program. Awards of six-month RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE subscriptions to the Relief Society Magazine were given to twenty-one sisters for outstanding records of service as Visiting Teachers. A picnic lunch was served and a most delightful social spirit prevailed. Millard Stake A COMPREHENSIVE report of the work of this progressive stake comes from the Secretary, Sister Ora B. Hanson. Every ward has contributed toward the achievements: "Relief Society Ward Conferences were held in Millard Stake during May and June and were attended by stake executive representatives and board members. The Singing Mothers of each ward furnished the music for the respective conferences and the campaign song, "One Hundred Thousand Strong," was sung. Some very outstanding programs were presented, portraying the various phases of Relief Saciety work. "Most of the wards had a large Relief Society Magazine built on the stage with the cover fixed as the entrance to the Magazine. As the Magazine representative explained what was contained in this wonderful magazine different characters came out and portrayed the work. The Theology department was very outstanding. One particularly fine presentation was of the quotation, 'If ye do it unto the least of these my brethren, ye do it unto me.' "The Literary class leader gave a brief talk on the work of this department emphasizing the study of the Old Playhouse. She told of one sister in the ward who had played as a child in the famous theater. Sister Elizabeth Robinson of Fillmore, First Ward, then appeared on the stage with her two granddaughters, Mary Ellen and Lillie NOTES FROM THE FIELD Robinson, who sang, Father, Dear Father, Come Home With Me Now, the song Sister Robinson had sung while playing Ten Nights In A Bar Room with her father, Robert Smith, in the Salt Lake Theater. "An ideal Work and Business meeting was conducted. Handwork and quilts were on display on the stage and conversation was carried on among the sisters while they worked with their hands. "In the Social Service field the leader explained that the mothers were studying national, state and community problems and pointed out that women could do much by studying and taking an active part in solving these problems. "The conferences in every instance were very successful and show the efficient work which is being carried on by every ward in the stake. "Another outstanding feature of this year's program was the Daughters' Day sponsored individually by each ward. The daughters are to be complimented on the fine way in which they carried on a Relief Society meeting. Most of the wards gave a prize to the mother having the most daughters present." Scipio is to be congratulated upon its high average attendance for the very active young mothers enrolled, and for the large increase in membership this year. Bear River Stake THE Anniversary, March 17, was appropriately celebrated in this fine stake. A beautiful original pageant, Loyal Hearts, written by Counsellor Maude O. Cook, was presented in the different wards. A very delightful social was held in Bear River Stake to do honor to the ward officers and class leaders. Music played an important part in the entertainment and as the theme 619 of the event was Enlistment the rallying song, One Hundred Thousand Strong, was made a feature. At the close of the program all adjourned to the ward Relief Society hall where luncheon was served. A color scheme of blue and gold was carried out on the beautifully appointed table. An incomplete arch made of flowers formed the center piece for the table with gold tapers at either end. The Relief Society daughters served approximately one hundred and fifty. Very successful Union meetings have been held throughout the summer and also an excellent course in Teacher Training for the different educational courses and Scripture Reading Project. Nebo Stake TO mark the close of a very successful year the Nebo Stake Relief Society officers entertained all members from the nine wards in the Tabernacle at Payson. A most carefully planned program was presented. Five of the wards had perfect records of visiting teaching. A challenge was given to the wards to attain the same fine record for attendance at Teacher Training meetings. The campaign for Magazine subscriptions for 1938 was outlined. - The Relief Society Stake President, Vera Cloward, opened the Membership Drive. There are 746 members at present. The aim is to increase the number to 995, the Stake's quota by 1942. Refreshments were served to more than 300. Beautiful music, inspirational talks, and a profusion of flowers made an event long to be remembered. Los Angeles Stake MONG the very fine things which Los Angeles Stake is doing is the launching of its Membership 620 Drive. The following account from the stake indicates this. "The slogan to be used to make our people Relief Society conscious and to increase our membership is, 'Members old, members new, One hundred thousand by 42. "The strength and power of Relief Society is measured by the number of women it serves. There is a purpose in this campaign which is deeper than the mere enrollment of numbers. That purpose is to build Latter-day Saint women and to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE strengthen the individual so that she may meet the ever-changing conditions of this interesting age with greater assurance." THE annual exhibit of handwork was a greater success than ever before. Hundreds of articles were displayed. It was an all-day program, and during the evening each of the thirteen wards responded. The occasion was greatly enhanced by the presence of President Leo J. Muir of the Los Angeles Stake and President Louise Y. Robison.