J. Golden Kimball FOR many years the unwavering faith, the human understanding, the homely philosophy, the sparkling wit of J. Golden Kimball has given delight and helped many to see more clearly and walk more directly. A son of Heber C. Kimball, Elder Kimball inherited many of the sterling qualities of his pioneer ancestry. Accepting the faith of his father he has with diligence and devotion served his church. The positions of trust which he has held have given him contact with thousands of people whose lives he has influenced and whose love and respect he has gained. President of the First Council of Seventy, his passing is a distinct loss to the Church. His spontaneous, natural wit drove home to his interested listeners with clarity and conviction the truths which he desired they should know. His genial personality and words of wisdom will long be remembered. The circumstances of his death in a traffic accident while returning from a visit to his daughter in California seem particularly tragic due to his advanced years and his declining health. The Relief Society extend to his family their deepest sympathy. Music Department By Wade N. Stephens N every ward the Relief Society Chorister is faced with the diffculty of creating a balanced chorus out of the material at her disposal. Because of the great variation in size and color of individual voices, it is impossible to give strict rules for balancing the parts; yet there are general principles which will help in this delicate task. It is best not to throw open the membership to all who desire to join. This procedure attracts the less valuable singers, and often keeps away the best ones. It is far better to put membership on a competitive basis?hear each applicant sing, and then pick only enough of each part to balance. Many times you will Distribution in 4-Part Music Distribution in 3-Part Music Number in Chorus Soprano I Alto II 5. Numbers marked usually balance best. Have more applications, and better singers, by using this method. Here is a table showing how to distribute parts in small choruses. THE most common procedure in wards is to organize a threepart chorus with too many sopranos in it, and then to divide these sopranos for four-part music. Anything that is not thought out beforehand is bad in music, and this is a particularly disastrous form of carelessness, for it results in a chorus that does not balance either in three parts or in four. The plan here presented is much more efficient. Notice that in the table, when any part has an extra singer, it is one of the lower parts. This is because really low voices are very rare; most "altos" are really only people who can sing low tones. An alto section, particularly second alto, composed of ordinary voices is apt to be weak unless bolstered by an extra voice or two. The highest part generally needs the least singers, because a soprano usually has more power than a lower voice, or at least a more penetrating quality. If the average age of your sopranos is rather high, the upper notes may be thin?in that case, an extra soprano may be admitted. The plan given requires complete rearrangement of parts when changing from three parts to four. For example, if your chorus numbers 14 members, one of those who sings soprano and two from the middle part of three-part music make up the second soprano section in four parts; the remaining three who sang the middle part and one of those who sang the lowest part in three-part music will sing first alto in four parts. It is not as difficult as it sounds to make these changes?try it, and the results will more than repay the trouble. Do not let the part-preference of a member destroy the musical value of your chorus. Be very diplomatic, of course, but see that each one sings the part where she will do the most good. An excellent motto for every group of Singing Mothers is, "I'll RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Go Where You Want Me To Go." The actual numbers given in the table cannot be followed in every case. My advice to you is this: First organize your chorus strictly according to the table. Teach it one three-part and one four-part piece. Listen carefully to the balance. Then add to the weak parts. If you will do this, the quality of your chorus will be limited only by its conductor's ability and energy.
Autumn in Utah
By Christie Lund Coles
ONCE more it is Autumn in Utah. And where, where is there a greater profusion of beauty, a more prodigious array of red and gold and purple and all the shades of Fall that defy description? The hills are touched with the colors of the Supreme Artist in a supreme moment. They lie on all sides of us, easily accessible. The country roads are lined with yellow trees, scarlet trees, crimson vines along the fence. The sky is a calm, untroubled blue; a mist lies over hill and valley; there is the pungent smell of earth bringing back memories of other autumns; there is the scent of smoke rising indolently to meet the sky. There is the air that is like a clean, bracing drink of cool water; there is a whole wonderful world of beauty on all sides of us. Where need we go to find more? This is the perfect season in Utah?warm days, cool nights, invigorating mornings, evenings that are dusky, matchless. Why not drink deeply of this that is ours without any cost. The shortest walk can not help but give us an abundance of loveliness, an invigoration of body and mind, an appreciation of God's great handiwork.
Let others sing the sadness of the Fall?
The dying summer and the withered leaf;
To me this is the loveliest time of all,
The time of beauty reaching past belief.
The time of air like a gold intoxicant,
Sweet with its pungent breath, its smell of earth,
And crisp, dried leaf; its winds exuberant.
This is the consummate of summer's worth.
This is the ultimate end of beauty's ways,
The culmination of spring's promises;
The rich and ripened time of harvest days?
Not winter's foreword... Its antithesis.