MEMBERS NEW Another worker found a very bright, intelligent lady who attended all literary lectures. She immediately appealed to her through the literary lessons. She became a member, later a class leader and then a stake board worker. Her interest aroused the interest of her indifferent family and soon all members, including her husband, were actively engaged in church work. Often a little recognition is all that is needed. One fine lady was appealed to many times without success. Finally the ward president, knowing she was a college graduate and well qualified, asked her to give a five-minute talk on an open Tuesday. She complied with the request, appreciating the recognition. She is now an active member, eager to grasp every opportunity for service. Very often the presidents of ward organizations have difficulty in obtaining talent for special programs. Instead of bringing talent from other wards, it is suggested that they call on members of their own ward, and through this recognition new members may be added to the rolls. A Relief Society Chorus is an opportunity for utilizing talent. Recognition and extending the privilege of service opens the door of opportunity in building membership. UR Savior said, "Love thy neighbor as thyself." On returning to her home after attending a very fine Theology lesson, one of the enlistment officers called on a neighbor who seemed overburdened with household cares. She invited her to accompany her to meeting the following Tuesday. 'Oh, I would like to," the neighbor responded, "but I have no one to look after the two younger children." To her delight, she learned that a nursery was provided with an efficient woman to take care of the 615 children. She is now a visiting teacher. She looks and acts younger and, through contact with other women and service to others, makes a better mother and homemaker. Bazaars offer another advantage for enlisting new members. One president wisely called upon a Primary teacher, who was a member, to take charge of the doll booth, with the privilege of calling her own help. Some of those called were young women, not members. The activity challenged their interest and ability, promoted a sisterly feeling and brought most of them into Relief Society. THERE is a feeling among some of our younger people that Relief Society is just for older women. Before marriage they took an active part in M. I. A. Work and now feel they are too young to enter Relief Society, unaware of the opportunities they are missing and the need of the organization for their strength. The educational program offers a complete course of study which no woman can afford to miss. The late Sister Lotta Paul Baxter once said, "Relief Society work is comparable to entering college after graduation from high school." Ward Reunions also offer an avenue for building membership. The Relief Society is usually called upon to help the Bishopric on such occasions. Grasp this opportunity and divide the work into committees. Call as many women in as possible to help, and through the privilege of becoming acquainted and working together many new members may be drawn into the organization. The visiting teachers often find women on their districts who, through a little personal interest, will become active members. I have in mind a past seminary worker who seemed hungry for religious activ- 616 ity. Her teacher reported her name to the enlistment officers and through their personal interest she is now a very fine chorister in her ward Relief Society. LACING a goal is a great help to enlistment workers. Dividing the ward into districts and placing one member of the committee at the head of each, making her responsible for membership of all women living in her district, is one of the best plans for efficiency. Active enrollment of eligible women living in each district is the goal to be attained; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE prayerfulness, ingenuity, perseverance, and vigilance are the means by which it can be attained. Dale Carnegie says, "The most successful people are those who do a little more than their job." If class leaders, officers and members will cooperate and each do a little more than their job by encouraging old members to become active, and nonmembers to join the Relief Society, our newly adopted slogan will be fully realized? Members old, members new, One hundred thousand by 742. The Nation, the Church, the Home THE primary effect of alcohol is upon the brain, the seat of the judgment, the will, selfcontrol and moral sense. This effect is even more serious than its weakening effect upon the body itself. Consider what we have done in this critical time to endanger both the church and the nation when we have deliberately chosen to weaken the judgment, lessen the self-control and destroy the moral fiber of the people of our country, when, if ever in our history, we need clear brains, calm judgment and strength of character. "More than twice as many places are licensed to sell alcoholic drinks as there ever were beforeNational Prohibition. The legalization of liquor has lessened the health standard striking a blow at both physical and mental man power needed today. "Recently a statement was made by a representative of a liquor group that in order to repeal Prohibition the liquor organizations spent fifteen millions of dollars. Since repeal, they have, according to their own statements, spent at the rate of twentyfive to thirty millions per year in advertising which was a method not open to them under Prohibition) in order to induce people to drink. "Our Christian homes, the strength and bulwark of our nation, are the target of this nefarious business. Over the air, in the newspapers, and even by means of the letter carrier, the liquor forces enter our homes with their false and misleading propaganda. Crime and juvenile delinquency are increasing. Bootlegging on such stupendous scale as was unknown under Prohibition is flourishing. "Church bodies have taken no backward steps on this question but many church people have become indifferent. The program of eduation as to what alcohol is and does deserves the support of every trueblooded American citizen. Public safety, public health, public morals, and the preservation of our Constitutional liberties are threatened by this arch enemy of our homes, our churches and the nation." ?The Union Signal.