Fall Flowers and Their Arrangement
By Maud Chegwidden
WHEN the cooler days of autumn come we have a wealth of lovely flowers with which to decorate the home. There are the strictly autumn-blooming perennials such as chrysanthemums, helenium, Michaelmas daisies, phlox, statice, gaillardia, and so on; there are the dahlias and gladioli that we planted in spring, along with such annuals as asters, zinnias, marigolds and petunias?and last, but by no means least, there are roses. Surely, from these many beautiful things, our homes can be made most delightful with specially arranged bouquets for the dining table, the mantel, piano top, console table, or for a bare corner anywhere, and we may carry flowers to shut-in friends and to church or club or other meetings.
But most of the charm of any bouquet lies in the proper choice and combination of blooms, and the relation of the blooms to their container. Have you ever sat at meat when your hostess placed a huge bunch of long-stemmed chrysanthemums in a tall ornate vase, right in the middle of the table, so that if you wanted to talk vis-a-vis you had to lean around this central obstruction? I have! The garden-grown chrysanthemums were lovely, it is true, but their height made them cry aloud for a place
THIS IS A HANDSOME ARRANGEMENT
far removed from the center of the dining table.
PERHAPS the first consideration of all in making any room floral arrangement is the sort of container you will use. Low bowls are the vogue nowadays, in which the blossoms are arranged in wire or pottery frogs. These are almost invariably pretty and graceful, but care must be exerted that flowers with too tall stems are not used in them, or the finished composition may look top heavy. Low arrangements are best for breakfast, lunch or dinner tables. Very often bowls may be found with a pair of candleholders to match which have spaces for flowers at the base. These companion pieces look very lovely on the dining table, and even if you have no candleholders you can make a similar arrangement to the one shown in our illustration by sticking candles with melted wax inside small bowls of water. The effect shown was obtained by first arranging chrysanthemums in a solid circle around the edge of the bowls; a dark color, any one preferred, may be used. Then single chrysanthemums (daisies might have been chosen instead) were arranged above these, in a hue to blend with the candles. A few of them were pulled up loosely, as you see, to add a natural, free touch. This group would be beautiful on a mantel or piano, as well as on any sort of long table.
When tall flowers such as spikes of the gladiolus are used, tall vases are best. Very inexpensive ones are to be found in good design and color. The best colors to choose are white, pale yellow, green or blue. With white, of course, you are always safe. Glass vases are lovely if they are clear, and not too ornately cut. Never use a flower container
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
which is decorated in bright colors, nor one that is twisted and tortured into odd shapes or curves. Such a vase will call attention to itself rather than to the blossoms it contains and this is wrong, and in very poor taste. Chrysanthemums with long stems should be used in tall vases, as should any long-stemmed bloom, and then the most suitable place in the room found for this. Many times a tall vase may be set on the floor, with fine results. The rule is, the taller the flower, the taller the container? and roughly speaking the topmost bloom should stand one and a half times the height of the vase. This gives excellent proportion.
IT IS usually best to stick to one variety of flower or to two at the most, in any arrangement, although of course dainty groupings can be made with more varieties. But the fall flowers that are strong, sturdy things do not mix with such happy
FLOWERS IN TALL VASE
FALL FLOWERS AND THEIR ARRANGEMENT
results as more ethereal and dainty ones do. When flowers of different colors are used, and of varying sizes, keep the larger blooms towards the base of the arrangement, also keep the darker, heavier ones there, and so get good balance. In the chrysanthemum group pictured, large and small "mums" have been blended most happily. They are also in perfect accord with their container. Chrysanthemum colors are such that they will all agree wonderfully well with each other, even if you mix every tint you can find. Their yellow, bronze, tawny pink, brownish red and other tones are never aggressive and determined to fight with each other. This cannot be said of zinnias. With this sturdy flower we must use caution when we cut them for home decoration. Use plenty of zinnias if you have them, but keep the reds, pinks and magentas apart. White and yellow, yellow and lavender, pink and lavender, white and pink, white and red?these are handsome when combined; the magenta hues are never handsome, whether alone or with others.
Asters too are better if bouquets are confined to one color, although here the several tints are happier in close conjunction than are those of the zinnias. Dahlias and gladioli should be used in only one, or no more than two, colors. Dahlias, by the way, which are notoriously bad keepers when cut, may be made to live for three or four days in water if you cut them just before dark, and plunge each stem, the very second you cut it, in a can of boiling water that you have taken to the garden for the purpose. Then when you reach the house, put the dahlias in a deep bucket of cold water, right up to their necks, and leave them thus all night, arranging them in vases the next morning.
ROSES are probably the most popular of all flowers, and these are exquisite for church or home decoration. Here again, try to fill each container with roses of one color rather than mixtures. A round bowl of clear glass is a perfect holder for roses, but do avoid the ruby or dark blue bowls that are now so popular. Glossy pottery, in a tone which either blends or contrasts with the roses is good, and you can never go wrong with white. In making a large arrangement of roses, group most of them close to the bowl, as shown in the picture, but draw a few of them upwards and outwards. Above all, use no greenery except their own lovely foliage. This rule applies to all home floral compositions; keep the flower's natural leaves, and add no others. One rose, either fully opened or in the bud stage, is a most exquisite decoration for a writing desk, a bedside table, a dressing table, or for placing by each cover at breakfast or lunch. Slender, clear glass vases are perfect for one or two roses. Very often foods come in glass
ARRANGEMENT OF ROSES IN WHICH THE LOVELY FOLIAGE PLAYS A PART. NOTE THE SIMPLE CONTAINER AND HOW IT GIVES FULL ATTRACTION TO THE FLOWERS
containers that are of good lines and excellent for flowers. They may be used clear or enamelled. The screw grooves at the top may be filled with putty and then enamelled. Choose safe, neutral colors such as ivory, primrose yellow, buff, grey-green or soft blue, for your enamel. Black is good, very often, for a container that is to hold a flower of one brilliant hue; for instance, nasturtiums or marigolds are strikingly handsome in a glowing black bowl.
BESIDES the garden flowers, branches of trees or shrubs, with or without berries, are often used for decoration. The brilliant pigments in autumn leaves, the cool and lovely silver-grey leaves of Russian olive trees, the red hips from wild roses? all of these should be considered when you are making fall arrangements for church or home. In concluding, let me impress upon you again the fact that simplicity should be sought for, both in containers and in flower combinations. Keep groupings low that are to be used on meal tables, and have those compositions that are to be viewed from a distance, large and bold. Don't mix colors indiscriminately!
"All those who love Nature she loves in return, and will richly reward, not perhaps with the good things, as they are commonly called, but with the best things, of this world?not with money and titles, horses and carriages, but with bright and happy thoughts, contentment and peace of mind."?John Lubbock.
"Manhood, not scholarship is the first aim of education."?Ernest Thompson Seton.
Relief Society Scores