10 Editorials Composure WORLD feverish with anxiety aroused by war threats, awaiting an ultimatum that would hurl thousands of young men into battle, disturb the serenity of homes, and dissipate nations, heard one great leader admonish his people: "Be calm." He knew nothing was to be gained by excitement, by uncontrolled passion, by rioting and violence. Perplexed as was the nation, composure was deemed essential to clear thinking and sound judgment in meeting a national crisis. The greatest leaders are those who have developed within themselves the ability to remain serene, undominated by passion in tense situations, and who have the ability to extend that composure to the group. History, both secular and church, is rich with examples of calm leadership preventing not. Only confusion, panic and suffering, but actual blundering and irreparable damage. Washington at Valley Forge during a period of deepest gloom when war had been waged for more than two years, with apparently less than nothing accomplished, found discontent and distrust springing up among the soldiers. Allowed to spread this would have meant certain defeat. Clear headed and composed, Washington held his men together, worked out a strategy that brought victory to the colonists and restored confidence in his leadership. Our Church history gives a vivid picture of the composure of Brigham Young in recording the advent of Johnston's Army. There were 2,587 Saints encamped at the head of Big Cottonwood Canyon to celebrate the tenth anniversary of the entrance of the Pioneers into Salt Lake Valley. The stars and stripes were unfurled on two of the highest peaks in sight of the camp, and on the tops of two of the tallest trees. The bands played and a spirit of joy and patriotism prevailed. At noon, rode in upon the scene, messengers bearing news of the approaching army. Their message was delivered: to Brigham Young and his immediate counselors and associates. Church history records, "the afternoon's merriment and enjoyment went on as if no messengers from the east had arrived. At about sunset the camp assembled for prayers when eye. 2 President Wells made a few remarks in relation to the 'latest tidings from the states,' upon the order of leaving the ground in the morning, and concluded with prayer." This calin, wise leadership evolved a plan whereby the advancing army in the end proved a blessing to the struggling settlers. Crises arise not only among nations and large organized groups but in our everyday relations with our fellowmen. The smooth-running satisfaction of all one's desires is quite outside the realm of probability since our lives are so interrelated. Tensions arise, conflicts occur and often crises of real moment must be met. In these situations the emotional outburst, the uncontrolled passion, is the infantile response and usually aggravates the condition. The person who remains calm, serene, is less apt to do or say anything which he will later regret or which will interfere with the best solution of the difficulty. The composed individual has the advantage; he has control of the situation, because his intelligence rules rather than his passions. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE There is no place where composure is more essential than in the home. The economic conditions reducing thousands of homes to inadequate incomes, the social demands of our day, 'the high educational standards, the general unrest, all have an influence upon the home. Members of the household are often strained almost to the breaking point by the conflicts of life in a world electrified with tensions. Home should be a sanctuary, a place of rest and refuge to which members may return from a world of confusion and find peace. A composed father, a serene mother, means the meeting of family problems with reason and intelligence and the creation of happy, restful home life for all. The Prince of this world was the great emissary of love and peace. Facing difficulties greater than any other, he went about his work with a composure which accomplished his purposes and preserved his dignity to the last. Composure does not prevent strained relations, but it is an invaluable asset in the wise solution of difficulties.