THE LORD'S DAY "And that thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day; "For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors, and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High; "Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all days and at all times; "But remember that on this, the Lord's day, thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High, confessing thy sins unto thy brethren, and before the Lord. "And on this day thou shalt do none other things, only let thy food be prepared with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or, in other words, that thy joy may be full."?D. C. 59. As we read this section our hearts are made to burn with joy and the desire to live these God-given commandments becomes an earnest prayer.
SURELY the Sabbath is made for man by God, and as these precious hours are lived in close communion the life of man is touched with divinity and God is pleased with his obedience. So Sunday is that link in the chain of life that connects the other days of the week. It is a day of refreshment when our souls are free to express themselves in terms of spiritual uplift. It finds us in places of worship, singing praises to Him, renewing new and everlasting covenants, and bearing testimonies of His goodness. There are those who practice true religion by visiting the fatherless and the widows in their afflictions on this day of days and they find comfort in so doing. If Sunday comes and it is impossible to attend church services there is still a way to make it a holy day. Affairs in one's home must be given thought and as we look forward to this day of devotion, other days will become touched with it. Yes, it is possible for us to lift ourselves up to the dignity of this sacred day. Perhaps the wearing of one's best clothes does something to the personality, a vase of freshly cut flowers gives a feeling of charm that finds a response in the emotions, and the eating of the Sunday meal with less haste than other meals gives a touch of sanctity. As these outward expressions affect us we reach out to a higher level of thinking and feeling; we take time to meditate; we listen to the symphonies over the radio and learn to appreciate the best in music; we read the scriptures, our testimonies are increased, and the comfort experienced in the knowledge that in so living we make the Sabbath hallowed, satisfies our hearts. There is no better time to read God's word, to fast, and to meditate. In these moments we learn to value life not in terms of what we have but in terms of what we feel. This makes for a wholesome personality. Surely the Sabbath is made for us and as we live it we reach upward, sense more keenly its significance, and learn more fully to appreciate the wisdom of an all-wise Heavenly Father who blessed it that it might become a holy day, a day of rest, the Lord's Day.
Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd
By Dorothy Clapp Robinson
CHAPTER SEVEN
"DO you think we shall ever get all our dues in?" Our secretary, Irene Walton, looked up at me in dismay. "How many are still owing?" "The usual group." Mrs. Walton, like Mrs. Blomquist, had been with the former presidency. "Most of them could pay but they seem to have forgotten." "Let's remind them," Rhoda suggested, "in a way they won't forget." "What way would that be?" Mary Grosbeck wanted to know. "I think it is all right to mention dues two or three times but beyond that it detracts from the dignity of the organization." "Oh," I cried, "we shan't be insistent if we never get them. Members do not exist just to pay dues. Yet we must have them if we keep our organization going." "I would be in favor of paying the delinquent ones out of the treasury. That would be the least embarrassing way to do it." "But I wonder if it would be the best." I considered a moment. "That would mean that a certain group would pay their own and help pay others' dues." "It is a certain group that keeps up the organization financially, anyway," Mrs. Walton reminded me. "But if each woman who is able pays her own dues it will give her a sense of responsibility and pride that would not come if we paid them for her. Then it will give her a feeling of belonging?a sisterhood with the group." "It was once suggested to us," Irene said, "that the women save their pennies each week and apply them on the dues and magazine. That makes it easier for most of them than leaving it all until the last. There are so many expenses between October and the New Year." I hadn't known about that suggestion. "Tell us about it," I urged. "There isn't a great deal to tell. We asked the women to keep a little bank for their pennies but that was too easily robbed. Then we had the magazine agent get a box of envelopes much like a card index system and put a woman's name on each envelope. Each week they put what pennies they had in it." "I think that was a grand idea. Why didn't it work?" "We didn't know. Evidently there was something lacking. Probably enthusiasm on the part of the officers. Or it might have been the personality back of it. One woman can put over successfully what would be a failure in the hands of another. Maybe we didn't keep the idea before them consistently enough." "Find a way to keep the idea before them without offending and you will have solved the problem." Rhoda's voice said that was impossible. "I have it." I sat up suddenly. "Let's draw a thermometer with one hundred fifty degrees marked on it. That will represent one hundred pennies for the magazine and fifty for the dues. Have it hanging where the members can see it. Each week let the magazine agent fill in with a red pencil as many degrees as there are pennies handed in."