Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
Lesson 4
THESE TWELVE JESUS SENT FORTH?(Cont'd.)
Helpful References David O. McKay, Ancient Apostles, pp. 10-16, 117-121. James E. Talmage, Jesus the Christ, pp. 139-142, 217-229. A. B. Bruce, The Training of the Twelve, pp. 240-249, 281-296, 319-325, 332-340. C. R. Brown, These Twelve, pp. 25-44, 69-88. (Harper & Bros., New York, 1926.) An interesting study in temperament by a famous religious writer. C. E. Macartney, "Of Them He Chose Twelve," pp. 15-24, 96-107. (Dorrance & Co., Phila., 1927.) Interesting collateral reading. W. M. Mackay, The Men Whom Jesus Made, pp. 36-56, 76-93. (Harper & Bros., New York, 1933.) An interesting study by a Scottish authority. F. J. Mueller, Christ's Twelve, pp. 30-39, 54-62.
James, the Counselor.?It is interesting to note the bewilderment of numerous writers who attempt to account for the "chosen Three" in the Twelve. These men were Peter, James, and John. This trio was often with our Lord when others of the Twelve were absent. On certain occasions they were specially called to accompany the Savior for reasons not entirely clear to most students. Mueller can account for Peter and John satisfactorily but goes on to say, "Why always James?" The answer is clear to Latter-day Saints because the Lord has revealed that three men form the Presidency of the Church. Following the death of Christ the leadership of the Church fell upon Peter together with his two counselors James and John. James, then, was Peter's first counselor. He together with Peter and John were specially instructed by the Christ because upon them were to devolve the arduous duties incident to the Presidency of the Church. The Christian world has seemingly missed the true explanation as to why the Three were so close to our Lord.
James is an English form of the Hebrew name Jacob. The latter would in fact be the better name to us. We know that James was the son of Zebedee and Salome of Bethsaida and the brother of John. Zebedee seems to have been a fisherman in somewhat better circumstances than the average for he had hired servants. (Mark 1:20.) Other than that we know nothing about him. Salome seems to have been a very spiritual woman for when the Savior was in Galilee she ministered to him and followed him. (Mark 15:41.) She with Mary the Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joses, came with spices to anoint the body of Christ on the fateful Sabbath that he arose from the dead. (Mark 16:1.) Salome was exceedingly proud of her two sons?perhaps she was extreme in this respect. "Then came to him the mother of the sons of Zebedee, with her sons, bowing down and asking a certain thing of him. He said to her, What dost thou wish? She says to him, Command that these my two sons sit, one on thy right hand, and one on thy left, in thy kingdom. But Jesus answering said, Ye know not what ye are asking." (Matt. 20:20-22.) Salome is supposed to have been either the niece or the cousin of Mary the mother of Christ. Truly James was from a great family!
The call of James and John to follow the Savior is well known. "And he called them. And straightway they left the boat and their father, and followed him." (Matt. 4:21, 22.) Henceforth James and his illustrious brother were to be fishers of men. James was destined to have an eventful life from that moment. What a privilege was his to sit at the feet of the Christ and to be instructed and admonished in the mysteries of the Kingdom! James was present with Peter and John at the raising of the daughter of Jairus?a special privilege. (Mark 5:35-43.) Then, too, he was called by the Christ to be present at his Transfiguration. (Matt. 17:1-13.) Of this great event we shall say much when the life of Peter is discussed. Suffice it now to point out that James with Peter and John received the keys of the Priesthood on the momentous occasion of our Lord's Transfiguration. (See Matt. 16:19.) That James was a forceful man and could at times be thoroughly angry is revealed in his desire to have a Samaritan village burned up because it refused entertainment over night to his Master who was a Jew. (Luke 9:52-55.) But the Christ rebuked his hot-headed follower. Without any doubt James was rebuked many times before he learned to control his temper. He was a true Son of Thunder. A good counselor he became in later years by virtue of his ability to learn the lessons his Master taught him. The impulsive Peter needed a steady counselor. James schooled himself to the point where the Lord could use him.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE James was present with Christ when the latter struggled in agony at Gethsemane. He with the other members of the Three seems not to have realized at the time the pangs of suffering our Lord passed through. He witnessed Christ's betrayal at the hands of Judas, his fellow-member of the Twelve. It is unfortunate that we possess no detailed account of what James did during Christ's trial and subsequent crucifixion. We may be justified in assuming that he, like Peter, his file leader, displayed the frailties and weaknesses common to men when faced with great danger. Following the death of Christ James passed through the difficult and stirring times incident to the persecution of the Church by the Jews. We can in fancy see him in counsel with Peter and John planning the progress of the Church and displaying his wisdom and firmness in dealing with the trying situations that arose. That his influence was felt is shown by the short and eloquent account of his death by Luke. "Now at that season, Herod the king put forth his hands to harm some of the church. And he slew James the brother of John with the sword." (Acts 12:1, 2.) James had finished his work, had completed his mission. Peter's mission was not yet finished as Luke goes on to point out. The forces of evil strike at the heads of the Church wherever possible. James was the victim at that time. His death was the most eloquent sermon that could be preached respecting his greatness and the good that he was accomplishing. James' death seems to have taken place about 45 A.