LIFE'S SPAN By Beatrice E. Linford How precious are the fleeting hours That swiftly pass away; I must not waste one moment of Each golden joyous day. I count each moment solely lost Wherein I fail to see Some beauty, or some music sweet, Some task held out to me. The short allotted time of man Seems such a fleeting space; Each moment of its rushing term Is but a short swift race. Help me to grasp in this Prosi time All that I need to know Of life, of love, of sacrifice, Of beauty here below. And may I give some little might, Some smile, or bit of song, To ease the pain from some sad heart And help her way along. This only can I do to pay My great unbounded debt, For joys I've had along the way; I'm searching for them yet. Life is a game of give and take; You give me joy?lI take. In turn I do my level best For you, for friendship's sake. So let's continue gladly on, Smiling from sun to sun, Giving joy, and receiving joy Til life's brief race is run! Members New By Ella J. Coulam "There is glory to be gained, There are great deeds to be done, There are goals still unattained Waiting some courageous one. 'What was finished yesterday Merely paves tomorrow's way." NLISTING new members in E any organization requires enthusiastic workers. Those who have a love in their hearts for the organization will best generate interest and enthusiasm and will be most successful in attracting others to it. Enlistment officers are the salesmen or missionaries of the Relief Society. A cold, indifferent salesman seldom makes a sale. A good salesman understands the article to be sold and its value. He appreciates its worth and knows his job of selling well enough to make others desire what he is offering. Thus he is bound to be successful. Great care should be taken in the selection of enlistment officers, as they represent the organization. They should be tactful, courteous and pleasing personalities. A careful study of the Handbook is recommended for Union meeting classes to qualify these workers for their job. They should be able to answer intelligently all questions pertaining to Relief Society work. Each new member should be made familiar with the rules of the organization before joining. Emerson says, "Good behavior is the finest of fine arts." A study of personality is also recommended for the Union meeting class, together with an exchange of ideas and a general round-table discussion of problems pertaining. To the work. All enlistment officers should be constantly on the alert to know and solicit for membership all eligible ladies in the community. All good, virtuous women are entitled to Relief' Society membership. A survey is now being made by the Relief Society, Sunday School, Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association and Primary Association which should be valuable in the Membership Drive. A missionary seldom makes a convert through one visit. First a tract is given, and a friendly interest established, then an invitation to attend meeting, followed by activity in the organization. The same procedure may be necessary in securing Relief Society members. ON E enlistment officer discovered on her first visit to a new ward member that her great interest was in handwork. She immediately recognized this and through it brought into the organization a very efficient work supervisor. The interest or hobby of an individual is often capitalized upon to secure activity. Another fine work supervisor was discovered when the Relief Society officers called to offer condolence at a time of death. They learned that the woman had supervised an art department in a local store before her marriage. Through kindness and perseverance she was persuaded to attend Relief Society meetings to relieve her loneliness and sorrow. She became a member and has given much service, changing a life of loneliness into one of happiness.