Women We Should Know
Utah Women in Medicine Today
By Ramona W. Cannon
SOME decades ago several of Utah's daughters were among the pioneer women physicians of America. Even under the difficult conditions prevailing at that time they won distinction in classes of men frequently hostile and derisive. The requirements for practicing medicine today have grown so rigorous that they tax even strong men. Moreover women are not yet welcomed into the profession with open arms. Dr. L. L. Daines, Dean of our State School of Medicine, says it is very difficult to place in the more advanced schools in other states the girls who finish their two years of medical work at the University. He also states that the public generally have less confidence in women than in men doctors, though he himself does not concur in that opinion. However, despite these discouragements and the long years of preparation ahead and the heavy expense of a medical education, Utah women are still studying medicine, while former graduates are practicing with exceptional success in some instances.
Four intrepid girls are now enrolled in the State School of Medicine. Others are in the pre-medical school. At least two graduates are now interning. Some of our native women doctors have left the state and are doing outstanding work in their profession.
A UTAH woman who has had a colorful career in life as well as in medicine is Dr. Lurrine Miles Allen, now practicing in Roosevelt. She is one of seven daughters born to Mr. and Mrs. William Allen Miles, pioneers of Roosevelt. Brother Miles started the first store there and owned the first bank. At his funeral President Smart said that he had been one man who, "wherever he found one tree, had left two growing in its place." A man of such character discerns possibilities and desires intensely to see possibilities fulfilled. This quality undoubtedly had its influence on his seven daughters, for all of them have a versatile development and are unusually capable women. Brother and Sister Miles owned a large ranch. Many a time the father could be seen on his mount riding with a haversack on either side of him. The bags contained nothing less precious than a small daughter each. As soon as each girl could sit on a horse, she was given an animal for her very own. These girls rode the range and branded cattle and in this way earned money for attending college. The active, open-air ranch life developed these young women physically for the strenuous years ahead, and the training of wise parents provided for them an unusually practical education. The mother especially was determined, however, that all her girls should receive college educations. She lived to see her dream fulfilled. Two of the daughters married physicians and have worked side by side with their husbands. Leona was graduated in pharmacy in Chicago and later studied X-ray. When her husband went to Vienna to continue his studies, she accompanied him and specialized in X-ray treatment. Although Ruby was a graduate of the Conservatory of Music in Chicago, in both voice and violin, when she married a doctor she became his daily assistant in his medical work. Lurrine studied medicine at the University of Utah, then was graduated from Rush Medical College. While there she was made a member of the A. O. A. Scholastic medical fraternity. At that time only four schools were admitted to this organization, and from each of these schools only five members were eligible. Yet the signal honor of belonging to this group came to a woman, a Westerner, and a Mormon. Dr. Miles, as she is known, began practicing in Roosevelt where she now has a hospital of her own. She is noted for her careful, correct diagnoses, also for her success with maternity cases. She has done special work in the Idaho Falls Hospital and has attended the Mayo Clinic and other institutions for advanced work in medicine. She has been particularly successful with tularemia, contracted by handling rabbit furs, and with Rocky Mountain spotted fever, carried by ticks. These two diseases are common to our Western area. A few years ago Dr. Miles recognized a case of trachoma in a white child of Roosevelt. This disease of the eye leads to blindness, and like cancer it is difficult to detect in its early stages when it can be overcome. It is contagious and Dr. Miles traced its source to the Indians. Through her effort help was brought in from the Department of the Interior. Many were saved from blindness, and the danger to both whites and Indians was stopped. For her efficient work in this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE she was complimented by the Department of the Interior. Dr. Miles gives her heart to the cause of human welfare, and medicine is only one of the channels through which she does her good turns. She has had no children of her own but is a devoted and affectionate mother to two step-sons and has legally adopted a niece. She has assisted many young people to go to college and is now providing medical educations for two young men. Like her six sisters she is active in Church work. She is interested in practical social service movements and is a member of the Stake Relief Society Board. She has been instrumental in inducing the Church to establish a hospital in Roosevelt. When this hospital is completed she intends to relinquish her own private hospital for the greater good of the greater number.
ANOTHER Utah woman, Dr. Edna Calderwood Thayer, is practicing medicine very successfully in New York. A daughter of Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Calderwood of Salt Lake City, she displayed unusual mental capacity even in grade school work. She was graduated from the Salt Lake High School with the highest grades recorded there over a period of many years. While receiving her scholastic education she also studied piano for eight years, spending some months under Godowsky, in Los Angeles. She did her four years' college work at the University of Utah in three years. She also gave music lessons while attending college. Edna was ambitious for a career and had planned on music. One day she burst upon her parents with the news that she wished to study medicine. They attempted to dissuade her, but she replied, "I know it is a long struggle. You have told me, Mother, how you taught for three years to help father through, and how hard the first years of practice were after that. But I should like to specialize in children's diseases. There are splendid opportunities today for specialists." Her parents spoke of sacrificing woman's natural career as wife and mother for a profession already overcrowded with men. "I don't intend to forego a husband and children. I want both a profession and a family," daughter calmly replied. Edna took her first two years' work at the University of Utah then was graduated from the University of Pennsylvania. While there she became acquainted with a young classmate, Robert Thayer, a Southern youth. He accompanied her to the branch meetings of the Church in Philadelphia. He studied the Gospel, and they often talked of it together. Some years later he visited Salt Lake and made a more thorough investigation. Converted, he was baptized by Elder B. H. Roberts. The two young doctors were married in the Salt Lake Temple. Before this event, however, they had had to continue their professional studies in separate places. Edna specialized in the care of babies in St. Louis, interned in the Children's Hospital in Philadelphia, and did special work in Bellevue Hospital, New York. After marriage the couple settled in a tiny flat in Long Island, where Robert spent two more years interning and specializing. Edna gave physical examinations to girls in the telephone office by day, and to girls at the Y. W. C. A. at night. It was not long, however, before the two well trained doctors had their own office and a good practice. While Edna was busy with her babies, two daughters and one son, she did only a limited amount of practicing. But after a time, she had her own office in connection with her home. She supervised her household and carried on her professional work at the same time. Her children have had every care and every advantage, and justify their good treatment. Their parents are proud of their development. Today the Doctors Thayer own a handsome home in Hempstead, Long Island, with a large wing built on for offices and laboratory. They also maintain another office in Long Island. Much of their work is done by appointment. Dr. Edna has continued with her special baby work, particularly the feeding of babies, and has also specialized in allergies. Twice a week she does special work along this line at the Bellevue Hospital. She and her husband own their laboratory and keep two girl technicians steadily employed there. Both Doctors are thorough Latter-day Saints and are active in the Church work in Flushing. Edna supervises the Social Service lessons of the stake Relief Society. Also she is president of the Parent-Teachers Association of the Riverside School. Edna Calderwood was a cool-headed, methodical young woman of clear vision, who dreamed dreams and succeeded, as few succeed, in bringing them to fruition as happy realities.