By Esther D. Stephens
SIX years ago the women of the San Francisco Stake planted several beautiful trees in Golden Gate Park in honor of the George Washington Bicentennial. Those who have been in Golden Gate park know what a restful and inspiring place it is and appreciate the great honor conferred upon the Relief Society in being granted such a privilege. A section of the park near the Nineteenth Avenue and Lincoln Way entrance where the trees are planted is known as "Mormon Grove." Large enough to accommodate several hundred people without crowding, the site is very secluded and quiet. The four pines, five redwoods and five blooming Japanese cherries, planted six years ago, show wonderful growth and add their charm to the lovely spot.
Since planting the trees it has been the aim of the women to identify them with a suitable marker and constant effort has been expended in achieving this goal. September 2, saw these efforts rewarded when a handsome copper plaque, a gift of the Utah Copper Company, was placed, and inspiring services held in connection with the occasion.
During the morning heavy fog hung low presaging a cold and disagreeable day, but by twelve o'clock, the time set for ceremonies to begin, the skies were clear and the sun was not only bright but hot. One of the cherry trees, seeming to sense the importance of the occasion, had sent forth five or six beautiful blossoms, although September is not the blooming time of the year. It seemed the day was made for the function.
Although there are many rules and regulations about placing objects of any kind in the park, Mr. John McLaren, founder and builder of the park, along with his fine associates, Captain Lamb, Mr. Schmidt, Mr. Duffy, and Miss Wakefield, were most kind and helpful, assisting in every way possible. Through their guidance the project passed the Park Commission, the Planning Commission and the Art Commission and made possible the accomplishment of the activity.
MR. JOHN McLAREN
Founder and Builder of Golden Gate Park
Mr. McLaren is a kind and sturdy Scotchman with a pioneer determination to build not only for the present but for the future. Under his direction Golden Gate Park has developed from a succession of rolling hills into its present state of beauty. Each flower, shrub and tree has been planted according to his plan. Everybody in San Francisco and the Bay Area loves and admires John McLaren. The world will always be grateful to him for the monuments of living beauty which he has aided in erecting.
Anticipating the large group which would attend the services the Park management placed seats for the congregation to enjoy during the program, also tables and benches for luncheon. A tall flag pole from which floated the colorful American flag was placed in the meadow among the trees. All present felt the spirit of the occasion.
The marker, a Utah copper plate, is set deep into a large natural granite boulder and placed approximately in the center of the grove. Standing between two fine Redwood trees it can be seen easily from the road. It says: "These trees planted in honor of the George Washington Bicentennial by the National Woman's Relief Society of San Francisco, March 17, 1932."
THE ceremony began with a few words of welcome. The reasons for planting the trees and placing the plaque were explained. An appropriate program followed with members of the stake Priesthood presidency, a General Board representative, the stake Relief Society president, ward presidents and others participating. President Winter of San Francisco Stake said that with the placing of this plaque on the Pacific Coast a chain of markers had now been placed by the Latter-day Saints from the Atlantic to the Pacific, a lasting monument to their part in the build-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ing of our great country. A stirring and effective close for the program was the playing of Taps by a United States Army Bugler. His clear tones and beautiful interpretation will always be
U. S. BUGLER PLAYING TAPS
remembered by those who were there.
Grateful appreciation is expressed to the Utah Copper Company, who through Mr. C. M. Brown, donated the handsome copper plaque; to the McGillvary Raymond Corporation of San Francisco who gave the large granite boulder for the base of the plaque; to Mr. Charles Ohran and his son, Carl Ohran, for their part in cutting, hauling and placing the plaque and stone; to Mr. McLaren and his fine staff at the park; to the United States Army for the services of the bugler; to the Relief Society women whose faithfulness brought success and made the day a memorable one.
Paisley Shawls
By Lutie H. Fryer
Assistant Professor?Home Economics Department?U. Of U.
THE Paisley Shawl involves an interesting portion of Scottish life and history which was stimulated by Oriental life and history. We know that the very soul of the weaver was expressed in the textiles of the Orient; just so, the Paisley weavers took up the art and wove Paisley shawls for the sake of art. Comparison of the Paisley Shawl with the Oriental is detrimental to the former, therefore it is best to throw comparison aside and consider the Paisley not as an imitation, but as an adaptation, and a remarkable and very beautiful one, worthy of greater appreciation and study than it has received from many persons.
It was at the time when the French and English armies were contending with each other in Egypt (1798) that wonderful shawls from India, Persia and Turkey were introduced into Europe, sent there as gifts from officers. Napoleon Bonaparte brought back several very fine Indo-Persian shawls for the Empress Josephine. When Josephine appeared in the French Court wearing this new article of dress, she set the fashion for wearing shawls. They were very scarce and equally expensive.
To meet the demands, the French weavers copied the Oriental patterns and were able to make duplicates more or less perfect. They even went so far as to make dies and stamp the pattern on a plain background, and they put some excellent imitations on the market at a comparatively low cost. France was the first European country to try to produce shawls. The first factory was started in 1817 by Janbert in Paris. Then Lyons took up the industry producing clever specimens woven in wool, silk, and mohair. In England the most successful attempts at shawl weaving were at Norwich. Colonel Harvey, a manufacturer, commenced the weaving of beautiful figured shawls in silk and wool similar to those of Kashmir and almost equalling them in beauty of color and in technical qualities of weaving.
EARLY in the Seventeenth Century, Paisley, on the Firth of Clyde, near Glasgow, had become famous for its beautiful fabrics. Homespun linen and woolen were being produced. Bobbie Burns described the witch that pursued poor Tam O'Shanter in "her cutty sark o' Paisley harn," which garment was a short skirt of Paisley linen. The very names of the streets in Paisley: Gauze, Lawn, Cotton, Shuttle, Silk Thread Streets, are all expressive of the rise and steady growth of the textile industry in Paisley.
The early woolen fabrics were piece goods, woven either plain, in check or stripe. Later more elaborate designs appeared because the ever increasing demand was an inspiration for designers and weavers to produce more beautiful patterns. By 1820 the long and square shawls known as "Paisleys" were being produced. The design was made at first by tambour or needle embroidery, but later was woven on draw looms. Thus, these artists produced on simple harness looms what the weavers in Kashmir had done by hand. Among these weavers at Paisley were musicians, poets, philosophers, and natural scientists.
The designs were at first rather geometric like those found in Turkish fabrics, but later became more like the beautiful floral and pine patterns found in Indian and Persian shawls. This was partly due to the fact that Queen Victoria who was interested in the industrial life of Scotland loaned her large collection of Kashmir shawls to the weavers of Paisley, so that the patterns might be copied. It is recorded that the queen was "kirked" in a Paisley
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
shawl at the christening of the Prince of Wales, the late Edward VII.
THE great popularity of this type of shawl in Europe and America helped the industry at Paisley to out-distance its rivals at Norwich, Paris, Lyons and elsewhere. In 1834 the output of these beautiful Paisley shawls was valued at one million pounds sterling, equal to five million dollars. Shawls were seen at all social affairs and no bride's trousseau was complete without two shawls at least, a thin, light-colored one for summer and a dark, heavier one for winter days. Every lady who could
A PAISLEY SHAWL WITH SCARLET CENTER AND WIDE BORDER SUCH AS ONE WOULD HAVE SEEN AT A MID-VICTORIAN PARTY
PAISLEY SHAWLS
afford it counted several such wraps in her wardrobe. Imagine a mid-Victorian garden party with a hundred or more of these gorgeous shawls in white, green, scarlet, turquoise and orange draped over crinoline skirts.
Some of the wool for these shawls was produced in Scotland, but a large part of it was imported from France, England, Australia and America. Some fine wool called Cashmere was used. In 1820 Baron Fernaux imported over a thousand Tibetan goats to France, some four hundred survived and were distributed in the Pyrenees, Provence, and Alsace. At about the same time they were introduced into England and a little later into America, where they thrived in the mountains of Tennessee. The wools from these imported goats was somewhat inferior to that of the animals raised in the Himalaya Mountains, but even so, it was soft and fine and was considered the best for making Paisley shawls. The best yarn was carded and spun in Amiens. A silk thread was used as a foundation around which the Cashmere wool was twisted. This made fine, firm warp yarns. Bradford, a well-known spinning center in England, provided yarns spun from other wools. Because of the lack of railways in those days, the spinners came on horseback from Bradford to Paisley, bringing their samples of yarns to the weavers. The baled orders would arrive later by boat from Liverpool to the Clyde. These yarns had to be washed and dyed before they were ready for use.
THE dyeing was done by experts. The various sections of the warp were dyed or printed separately, according to the pattern and colors of the finished shawl. To imitate the many woven borders of the Kashmir shawl, certain sections of the warp were marked out for certain colors. Each section was dyed separately, the rest of the warp being protected from the dye by an adjustable frame which allowed only the exposed warp to be colored when dipped into the vat. In the Paisley shawl the many-colored warp ends formed the fringe, which in the Kashmir shawl was raveled from the differently colored plain pieces of cloth patched together to form the outer border. The warp yarns between these colored border sections were then dyed one color, black, turquoise, scarlet, etc., according to the plain center of the finished shawl. In the early days of shawl making a man might have been his own designer, dyer, warper, threader and weaver, but with the increase of the industry and the development of the artistic side of it, he soon found that he had neither sufficient time nor talent to complete all the steps in the work, so there naturally arose guilds of skilled workmen specially trained for each process.
The most important of these classes was the pattern maker who, in addition to a thorough knowledge of design and its history, particularly that of the Orient, had to understand also the relation of design to weaving, as the loom places certain restrictions upon pattern making. Any pattern can be printed, but not every pattern can be woven.
THE next step after the dyeing of the yarns was the work of winding the warp on the beam. This required the greatest accuracy. Any slight unevenness in the lines of colored warp could afterward be corrected with a paint brush, but a displacement of the different colored sections of the warp altered the whole color scheme. The loom was warped with cotton, wool or silk, the last was often used for the side borders only to bring out the colors of the wool filling yarns and to give added strength to the edge. The threading of the loom required another specialist, as did also the tying. A very fine shawl often had as many as 150,000 warp ends and required several weeks before the loom was ready for the weaving.
The artist first worked out a complete design in black and white on a small scale, this was then covered with transparent paper on which the design was worked out in colors. Each minute part of the design was later enlarged by transferring it to sheets of squared paper, a task which took several months. The enlarged design when completed assumed enormous proportions, resembling a large rug pattern. The various sections of the pattern arranged in order were given to a "draw-boy." He had to be specially trained for his work because he had to understand the details of the design to be woven in the shawl as well as the technique of weaving.
The weaver worked from the back of the fabric and shot through the shuttles, thus forming a design by use of various colors. The duty of the draw-boy was to sit on the opposite side of the loom, read the pattern to the weaver, hand him colored yarns as indicated by the design and pull the "lashes" or "draws" to form a shed, so that the shuttle could pass through the opening formed by the warp yarns. The time required for weaving a Paisley shawl was from three days to a week, according to size, pattern and fineness. The market price varied from five to twenty pounds sterling. The weaving of Paisley shawls was considered a man's job, though in early days it was largely a family
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
affair. The women spun and dyed the yarn, and the girls often put the finishing touches to the shawl, such as fringing, clipping and pressing.
IT is interesting to compare the Kashmir's method with that of the Paisley weaver. The former wove his shawl in sections, which were pieced together afterwards; the latter wove the whole shawl in one continuous piece. The next important difference was the manner of putting in the filling yarn. The Kashmiri used an interlocking weave in which a weft yarn ran back and forth across each motif, interlocking at each turn with differently colored yarns of the adjacent motif or of the background. This method left no long floating yarns on the wrong
A LONG PAISLEY SHAWL USED AS A WINTER WRAP
PAISLEY SHAWLS
side. In the Paisley, every filling yarn was carried across the full width of the shawl, appearing on the right side only when the pattern demanded, and on the wrong side as a float of loose yarn. The interlocking of the weave of the Kashmir formed a tiny ridge around each motif, giving the fabric a slight stiffness, while the continuous weave of the Paisley made it more soft and pliable.
When the Paisley shawl was removed from the loom the long floats of yarns on the wrong side were cut away. This task at first occupied two girls an entire day, but was done later in one and one-half minutes by a clipping machine, with a series of revolving blades. This not only gave the shawl a neat appearance, but also reduced it to about one-third of its original weight. All roughness on the right side of the shawl was singed off with a large red-hot knife which was passed slowly above the surface. The shawl was then inspected and any faults or holes were mended by girls and women, who also knotted the fringe, brushed and folded the shawls, laying them between sheets of cardboard ready to be pressed, wrapped and taken to the warehouses which were mostly situated in Causeyside Street. Here buyers from Glasgow came by train to buy these Paisley masterpieces of art.
STYLES come and go and such was the case with the Paisley shawl. The change of fashion, the introduction of the power-loom, and the economic influence caused by the Franco-Prussian War hastened the end of this colorful age of woven art treasures in the little town of Paisley. An attempt was made to stimulate the demand by putting cheaper shawls on the market. Instead of being woven of wool, silk and wool, or silk and cotton, the shawl was woven of all cotton, and this finally gave way to the still cheaper printed shawls, turned out by the piece, cut into shawl lengths and finished with a sewn-in fringe. However, even these cheap printed shawls had a certain charm and artistic quality. The patterns though still adapted from the Oriental showed a wider range of design permitted by the block-printing method. The colors were well fixed by a process of steaming so they would withstand weather, wear and washing. A handsome woolen printed shawl could be bought for two pounds.
The printed shawl marked the last step in the decline of the once great shawl industry of Paisley. In 1870 the shawl-weaving was decidedly on the decline, and ten years later shawls were no longer woven.
No doubt many a person has wondered what to do with grandmother's old Paisley shawl. They make interesting and decorative wall hangings. The long shawls may be hung over a pole showing interesting proportions, while square ones may have brass rings sewn along one side and suspended from a rod. Used on occasions, they are effective when gracefully draped and worn as a wrap. A Paisley shawl, like a Kashmir, is far too precious to be used as a couch cover, but when placed on top of a grand piano will change an otherwise colorless room into a place of beauty. Bring out your Paisley shawl into the light, where it may give pleasure to many. Whatever you do, don't have your shawl cut up to be made into a dress or bags, as is sometimes the case by those who are ignorant of the true worth of such a shawl, or because they lack true appreciation for great masterpieces of art, such as a beautiful Paisley.