D.
Most writers on the New Testament seem to believe that James was not the author of the Epistle by his name. Professor Scott says, "The James of the Epistle, it has always been assumed, was that brother of Jesus who in the early days became LESSON DEPARTMENT head of the church at Jerusalem.... But the name by itself gives little clue to the identity of the author. All we can learn from it is that the Epistle purports to be by a Christian teacher called James." It might be deducted that James the son of Zebedee could have been the real author. This deduction may be based mainly upon the wording of the opening lines: "James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are in the Dispersion, greeting." A general epistle of this kind would, in our opinion, come only from one of the leading authorities of the Church. But a difficulty exists in view of the fact that another James is mentioned in Acts 12:17; 15:13-21; 21:18; Gal. 1:19; 2:9, 10, after the death of the subject of this sketch. Was this other James elevated to the position of counselor to Peter? He seems to have had considerable authority and prestige. If he became one of the Presidency then we shall have to concede that he, too, could have written the Epistle. Our difficulties are due, of course, to the fact that so many men by the name of James are mentioned in the New Testament without being clearly identified. The reader is referred to Dr. Talmage's Jesus the Christ, p. 224, for a more detailed discussion.
Andrew, Brother of Simon Peter.?It sometimes happens that great men in their own right are eclipsed or overshadowed by some more famous individual in the same family. Such was the case with Andrew. When Peter became the leading light among the Twelve, Andrew seems to have become known as "Peter's brother." (See Matt. 4:18; 10:2; John 1:40.) Andrew was a fisherman of Bethsaida in partnership with his brother. His name was of Greek origin as was Philip's and shows the influence of Greek culture upon the Hebrew society in which both moved. The Gospel of John reveals the interesting fact that Andrew was a follower of John the Baptist when he first met the Christ. (1:35-40.) His spiritual insight seems to have been deep for when John said, "Behold the Lamb of God" he immediately followed the Christ and "abode with him that day." That our Lord made a profound impression upon Andrew is clearly discerned in John's record which says, "He finds first his brother Simon, and says to him, We have found the Messiah, which is being interpreted, Christ. He brought him to Jesus." (1:41, 42.) Andrew was one of those men?all too rare?who eagerly desire to share their good fortune with others. In this particular instance he was literally a "home missionary" and played an important part in starting his brother on his remarkable career. John relates another interesting incident about Andrew. In the story of the feeding of the Five Thousand the account runs as follows: "One of his disciples, Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter, says to him, There is a lad here who has five barley loaves and two small fishes; but what are these among so many?" (John 6:8, 9.) There does seem to be incredulity here, but possibly there is hope as well that the Master would use his supernatural powers and provide what was needed to feed the multitude. In our sketch of Philip we mentioned the incident in which certain Greeks came to him desiring to see the Savior. But Philip first consulted Andrew. (John 12:20-22.) The latter must have had qualities of mind and heart that made him a good man to confide in or counsel with. The record points out that Andrew and Philip came to the Christ. Apparently Andrew's association with Greeks had made him more liberal in his views toward foreigners than most Jews, but he felt it wise to consult the Master in relation to his desires. Andrew was with Peter, James, and John on a certain occasion when they privately asked the Savior about certain great events that were to take place in the future according to our Lord's predictions. "Tell us," they said, "when will these things be. And what is the sign when all these things are about to be completed?" The Christ then related to them great and remarkable events that were to involve the Jewish nation and in general those which were to transpire before his Second Advent. Aside from the incidents we have related little or nothing more is known of Andrew's life. Many fanciful legends grew up about his person and work in the centuries following his death. St. Andrews in Scotland is named after him and was for a long time the ecclesiastical capital of the Scots.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Questions and Problems (Deal only with as many as time permits.)
1. Think of all the reasons you can why the Savior should give privileges to Peter, James, and John that he did not give to other members of the Twelve.
2. Some people find it hard to understand why the Christ should choose the Sons of Thunder (James and John) to be his close disciples when they had such fiery and resentful spirits. (Luke 9:52-55.) How would you explain? Note: The term Boanerges is thought by the best modern authorities to mean "sons of rage" and not "sons of thunder." (See Mark 3:17.)
3. Compare our conception of the organization of the Presidency of the Church with that of our Catholic friends.
4. What traits of character did James seem to have in common with his mother?
5. Briefly outline the substance of the teaching the Christ imparted to Peter, James, John, and Andrew respecting the future. (See Mark 13; Matt. 24, 25; Luke 21:5-36; "An Extract from a Translation of the Bible," Pearl of Great Price.)
Visiting Teacher Department
Messages to the Home
No. IV?Sensitivity to the Needs of Others
"Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful."?Luke 6:36.
THE social structure enabling people to live together without friction is not ready made. Men often seem unable to live with one another because of personality conflicts. Attitudes and conduct which promote desirable social contacts strengthen character and improve personality. Sensitivity to the needs of others is of inestimable value in personality adjustment. It has at heart depth of understanding and sympathy and a sincere interest in the welfare of others. This is conducive to mental health. Most mental disease is fundamentally self-centeredness. The person whose interest and sympathy LESSON DEPARTMENT is with others, is not susceptible to mental ill health. Sensitivity to the needs of others attracts people to us, and thus widens acquaintance which in itself is conducive to personality growth. It manifests itself in acts of mercy. In order to derive the greatest personality benefits, mercy must be intelligently expressed. Intelligent mercy is more of the quality of loving kindness than of cold justice or negative morality. It is concerned to do the thing that will result in the greatest ultimate happiness. It is always forgiving, however, it does not involve a compromise with righteousness nor does it always withhold punishment. Genuine mercy does not nourish the ego of the administrator nor in any way make the recipient feel inadequate. Neither are its acts selfishly and injudiciously performed that one may feel relieved of responsibility toward some fellowman. As interpreted from the teachings of the Master, mercy definitely contributes to strong character and desirable personality development. In all his dealings with mankind, Jesus was sensitive to spiritual as well as physical needs. He was merciful, practicing forgiveness?a forgiveness which enabled one "to take up his bed and walk." "The best illustrations of Jesus' concept are found in his own life. For example, he was merciful to the woman taken in adultery when the others would have condemned her and stoned her to death. He showed the quality of his mercy in his attitude, 'Neither do I condemn thee.' Furthermore, he did not stop with lack of punishment, but went on, saying, 'Go thy way and sin no more.' This involved a forgiveness which extends into regeneration."
1. Give illustration of Jesus' sensitivity to spiritual need. How did He express mercy?
2. Give illustration of Jesus' sensitivity to physical need. How was this expressed?
3. Explain "Mercy does not involve a compromise with righteousness."
4. Why is it not always merciful to withhold punishment?
References: Luke 6:27-29.
Visiting Teachers are to call attention to Theology, Literary and Social Service lessons, also Work and Business programs as planned by your Ward.
Literature
The Advance of the Novel
Lesson 4
Defoe's Successors?Sir Walter Scott
DEFOE'S Robinson Crusoe was followed during the eighteenth century, by a number of other important novels. Among these were the stories written by Samuel Richardson, Henry Fielding, Tobias Smollett, and Laurence Sterne, to mention the most important of them. Other novelists of the century of slightly less importance were Samuel Johnson, who created his tiresome tale, Rasselas, and Oliver Goldsmith, who wrote his classic, The Vicar of Wakefield. Richardson is usually given credit for writing the first psychological novel in English and all four of the first-named writers are called realists, because they, like Defoe, gave careful attention to detail, thus stretching out their stories to interminable length. "Richardson is the originator of the psychological novel," says Phelps, "and in two respects has never been surpassed?in the tireless patience of his analysis, and in his unflinching march toward the inevitable tragic close." The first novel by this early genius was Pamela, a lengthy story written in the form of letters, an art Richardson had acquired somewhat by writing letters for his young lady friends. This method he uses in writing his other novels, all of which are models of their type. Fielding, Smollett, and Sterne are often grouped together on account of the fact that they were contemporaries. None of the books written by these men, important though they are, are likely to be of interest to the casual reader. They are to be reserved, in the main, for the scholar or the student of English literature. Students of this course will probably find in The Advance of the English Novel, by Phelps, enough to give them a slight acquaintance with these important men. Speaking of Dr. Johnson and Oliver Goldsmith, Professor Phelps says: "In literature Johnson was a super-dreadnought, Goldsmith an excursion steamer. Hundreds of thousands of happy men, women, and children have loved to travel anywhere with Goldy. So far as I know, there has been only one discontented passenger?Mark Twain, who said that any list of books for reading was a good list, so long as it did not contain The Vicar of Wakefield." I could probably name at least another.
During the latter part of the eighteenth century a new kind of novel made its appearance in England. This new form has acquired the name, Gothic romance. One of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE first of these to be written was The Castle of Otranto, by Horace Walpole. These "turgid" romances got their name from the fact that many of the stories were laid in ancient castles where one scene of horror and mystery followed another in quick succession. Walpole at first claimed that his story was a translation, but later admitted its authorship. "His preface contains (in the second printing) a significant statement: 'It was an attempt to blend the two kinds of romance, the ancient and the modern. In the former, all was imagination and improbability; in the latter, nature is always intended to be, and sometimes has been, copied with success. Invention has not been wanting; but the great resources of fancy have been dammed up, by a strict adherence to common life.'" The Castle of Otranto was followed by other Gothic romances of a similar nature: Clara Reeve's Old English Baron (1777), Ann Radcliff's Mysteries of Udolpho (1794), and M. G. Lewis' The Monk, (1795). These tales, as weird as they were, had some influence on Sir Walter Scott, whose great historical romances frequently have a Gothic flavor. However, Professor Phelps says of him: "The Romantic Revival of the eighteenth century reached a tremendous climax in Walter Scott. By virtue of his immense power and range, and unlimited creative activity, he remains the King of Romanticists. He belongs, of course, to the objective side of romanticism, as Byron belongs to the subjective; Scott is romantic in his material, Byron romantic in his mood. The great streams of Gothicism, Chivalry, and Mystery, as seen in architecture, ballads, and wild fiction, all united in the work of the Wizard. His achievement in prose LESSON DEPARTMENT romance is incomparably better than that of all his immediate predecessors put together, and had indeed no equal in English literature since the time of Malory."
"Scott, like all the great romanticists," continues Phelps, "was a mighty man, and much of his production has immortal life. Somehow a writer may be a great realist and yet not impress us with his vitality; may indeed seem anemic. But the great romanticists?Scott, Victor Hugo, Dumas, Cooper, Sienkiewicz,?men who find this world too cramped, and are forced to make their own world, where they can have elbow-room?these always give the impression of endless force."
As an example of Scott's work we have selected The Talisman for study in this course, not because it is his greatest, for it isn't, but because it is a readable story which many have not read and because the picturization recently of the Crusades has revived interest in it. Sir Walter Scott was born in Edinburgh, Scotland, August 15, 1771. His father was a lawyer, and in his own family traditions were tales that would rival in interest some of his own great creations. Scott was a great patriot, and therefore, delighted in telling historical tales which aggrandized the heroes of the past, many of whom he had come to revere from the tales told him by his mother and his grandmother, both of whom are reputed to have been splendid spinners of heroic stories. Scott was admitted to the bar in 1792, but had no marked success in his profession. During that time, however, he showed great zeal in gathering highland legends. These he translated into poetry, but seemed to sense the fact that he was never to rank among the first as a poet. Scott's first novel, Waverly, was written in 1814. William Long has this to say of the manner in which Scott came to write his first novel: "Rummaging through a cabinet one day in search of some fishing tackle, Scott found the manuscript of a story which he had begun and laid aside nine years before. He read this old story eagerly as if it had been another's work; finished it within three weeks, and published it without signing his name. The success of this first novel, Waverly, 1814, was immediate and unexpected. Its great sales and the general chorus of praise for its unknown author were without precedent; and when Guy Mannering, The Antiquary, Black Dwarf, Old Mortality, Rob Roy, and The Heart of Midlothian appeared within the next four years, England's delight and wonder knew no bounds.
"Not only at home, but also on the continent, large numbers of these fresh and fascinating stories were sold as fast as they could be printed." For seventeen years this indefatigable writer wrote on an average of two novels per year. Long says that "... It is well in these days to emphasize four noteworthy things that he (Scott) accomplished: (1) He created the historical novel; and all novelists of the last century who draw upon history for their characters and events are followers of Scott.... (2) His novels are on a vast scale covering a very wide range of action and are concerned with public rather than with private interests.... (3) Scott was the first novelist in any language to make the scene an essential element in the action.... (4) Scott's chief claim to greatness lies in the fact that he was the first novelist to create the past; that he changed our whole conception of history by making it to be, not a record of dry facts, but a stage on which living men and women played their parts."
Long says further: "Perhaps one thing more should be said, or rather repeated, of Scott's enduring work. He is always sane, wholesome, manly, inspiring. We know the essential nobility of human life better, and we are better men and women ourselves, because of what he has written." Cross says of his works: "The largest number of his romances have to do with the reigns of the first three Georges; his most distinctively historical novels have to do with the reigns of Elizabeth, the first James of England, and the Protectorate of Cromwell; his histories in which there is the most romance have to do with the Crusades, the age of chivalry, and the struggles of the Stuart Pretenders to recover the throne of England. Taken altogether, they form the most splendid series of historical scenes that fiction has yet produced."
With these brief notes about Scott perhaps we can turn to his great heroic novel, The Talisman. This greatest of all stories of those unbelievable expeditions known as the Crusades, was written in 1825 when Scott was fifty-four years of age. Charlotte M. Yonge, in a preface to a school edition of the classic, says: "In the year 1884, an English traveler in Edom found the Bedouin Arabs exclaiming to a shying horse, 'Teshoof Rikard?'?'Do you see Richard?'?and the mothers still threaten their refractory children with 'I will call Rikard!' The Lord de Joinville, who made his crusade with Louis IX of France, about half a century after the death of Richard Coeur de Lion, mentions these same expressions, and they have endured in the unchanging East for full seven centuries, to testify to the terrors impressed on the natives of Palestine by that lord of the mighty axe and beaming spear.
"Taken in one of its aspects, the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE crusade of Richard I against Saladin was one of the ideal conflicts of chivalry, and Scott has made The Talisman a kind of epitome of its most romantic moments, throwing many incidents together which happened at different intervals. Yet the brilliant fabric he has woven impresses the characters of the chief personages and the spirit of the Crusade on our minds better than that of many a more exact chronicle of facts." The Crusade spoken of in the story began in 1189 and in 1190. "The idea of The Talisman itself is, as he (Scott) tells us," says Yonge, "taken from a curious coin inserted in a stone, brought home as a charm in a subsequent Crusade by one of the Lockharts of Lee?the family to which Scott's son-in-law belonged?and known as the Lee penny." It is to be hoped that The Talisman will not be found difficult. Certainly if one is fascinated by action, one will get into it quickly enough in this tale of noble men and courageous women.
Suggestions
1. Read The Talisman. It might be well during this lesson to review the Crusades and the story up to chapter 6.
2. If The Development of the English Novel, by Cross, is available, read chapter 4.
3. If it is available, read The Modern English Novel, by Abel Chevalley, chapter 3. Chevalley says: "This lame man (Scott) walked straight, and carried the novel higher than any man before him. Why? Because he conferred upon the novel the grandeur of epic poetry."
4. Photographs of The Crusades might be obtained from the local picture theatre,
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Education for Family Life
Family Relationships
Lesson 1
Confusion of Tongues in the Home By Paul Popenoe, Sc. D. (Director Institute of Family Relations, Los Angeles, Calif.)
THE patterns, ideals, and standards of a home are usually derived from a number of different sources.
I. Each of the parents is of a different sex and therefore inevitably lives in a world that is, to some extent, different.
II. Each of the parents grew up in a different home. Mr. A. looks back on his childhood with uncritical admiration. The way his parents did things seems to him perfect; his one ambition is to be just the kind of man his own father was (as seen through his childish eyes and remembered somewhat vaguely after a quarter of a century.) Mrs. A., on the other hand, had an unhappy childhood. As she grew older and more critical, she was continually saying to herself, "When I have a home of my own, it will be very different from this one." Thus each partner is unconsciously trying either to reproduce or to repudiate his childhood patterns,?according as the ancestral home is recalled with feelings of affection or antipathy. Those who come from broken homes have a special liability, because they grew up with a lot of bad patterns before them instead of good ones. The examples set them during the formative period were examples of selfishness, thoughtlessness, disloyalty, cruelty, irreligiousness, instead of unselfishness, thoughtfulness, loyalty, kindness, and an attempt to translate into daily life the ideals of religion. Statistically, this makes a happy home in the next generation less probable. The Institute of Family Relations found that when both husband and wife came from broken homes, they were half again as likely to make a failure of marriage, as if they came from successful family backgrounds. But the person thus handicapped can turn the liability into an asset by recognizing the need for extra effort. III. Each of the parents has a different birth-rank, in most instances, and this affects his outlook on life. The "only child" seems to have about 20% less chance of succeeding in marriage (and must therefore make a greater effort than others, in order to overcome his handicap.) The oldest child is said to be a "natural conservative"; as the oldest he always had advantages and privileges. He is ready to maintain "things as they are" because they have always been to his advantage. The youngest child is supposed to be the "natural rebel'; he has always had to fight for everything he got, because others older and larger could claim privileges, or even deprive him of his rights. The middle child is often a behavior problem; he feels that he is not getting his share of attention. The older one can do things because of his age; the younger gets attention because he is the baby and "so cute'; if the one in between wants anyone to pay attention to him, he sometimes feels as if he had to stir up trouble to get it. Similarly the only boy in a 634 family of girls and the only girl in a family of boys,?each of these has patterns which may color his whole life and may influence strongly, without his realizing it, his attitude toward his wife and children a generation later. IV. The parents also reflect their own different experiences and acquisitions. Mrs. B. Attends not merely the meetings of the Relief Society, but of the P. T. A., of the local child study group, and similar organizations. She has a lot of up-to-date ideas on the management of a home. Her husband has not had these opportunities or, when they were offered, he failed for various reasons to take advantage of them. He therefore may be a whole generation behind his wife in 'knowledge of modern methods of home management, and in the scientific understanding of family relations. In the past, the public schools have contributed to this "cultural lag of the male" (as the sociologists call it) because they have given home economics and similar subjects to girls but not to boys. One of the urgent needs of education at the present time is to reach the boys and men, through church channels, public schools, adult education courses, and general literature,?and to bring them up to par with the girls and women, so that the two sexes will come nearer to speaking the same language and therefore being able to cooperate effectively in the home. We shall then have fewer instances in which the wife tries to apply modern procedures, to be met by the husband's argument that the way he was brought up is the best illustration the world has ever seen, of how a boy should be reared; and that what was good enough for him is good enough for Junior! V. The children in the home, especially as they get into adolescence, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE bring in new patterns, standards, and ideals which they have acquired from their teachers and classmates at school, from their contemporaries in the M. I. A., and from a dozen other sources including those omnipresent. Educational agencies: the newspaper headlines, the movies, the radio crooners, the comic strips, and the billboards. The impact of these novelties on the older patterns of their parents brings about continual change, though often not without some friction as youth voices its ageold complaint that the "old folks" are behind the times, while the parental generation is continually anxious about the supposed radical tendencies of youth. VI. Finally, the parents are continually changing their own patterns, not merely through the give-andtake with the children just mentioned, but because of the necessity of finding ways to meet new problems which they had not previously encountered,?which perhaps no previous generation ever encountered. The privilege of using the automobile is an illustration. Parents may feel that the young people can not be trusted with the machine; sometimes a man is found who even thinks that his wife is not to be trusted with it! Such problems as are presented by unchaperoned dances and other social affairs, by the selection of radio programs, by attendance at moving pictures of more than doubtful value, by the wide distribution of books and magazines of more than doubtful value, by the hundreds of millions of dollars spent through commercial agencies to promote in the most insidious ways the use of harmful substances like alcohol and tobacco, by the presence of an immense range of new political, social, and economic questions (some of them such as "communism" and "fascism" being not LESSON DEPARTMENT new at all but as old as history, and yet appealing to the youth of today as novelties and carrying strong emotional implications), ? all of these things keep parents from ever "settling down," either in their relation to each other or in their relation to other members of the family circle, whether of a younger or an older generation. From this scrambling of the personalities, experiences, and ambitions, first of husband and wife, then of all the other members of the family circle, there arises a chaotic mixture of patterns belonging to (or derived from) several different generations; and the confusion of tongues becomes continually worse confounded. What should a reasonable person do in such a situation? (1) Be patient and tolerant. Intolerance is never a virtue. On the other hand, if the opposite of intolerance is indifference, as it is for some people, they have gone from one evil to another. A genuine tolerance involves sympathy with the attempts of others to find the truth; it involves confidence in one's own faith, so that one does not react violently to any novel idea as if it were a personal threat; finally it involves patience and an attitude of love toward the world instead of suspicion, fear, or contempt. (2) Meet the problem not by attacking the other person and denouncing him but by trying to find what his motives are, what need he is really seeking to satisfy, and then helping him to get satisfaction in some more legitimate manner. I have been interested lately in looking over the list of registered voters, to find in how many instances among my neighbors husband and wife are registered as of opposite political parties. I suspect that in some instances the wife has "gone radical" 635 in an attempt to "express herself," to feel that she is an individual, an independent personality, and not merely an echo of her husband. Perhaps she needs other and more adequate outlets for her own personality all through the year. Similarly many an adolescent announces that he is an atheist, or a fascist, or a. Socialist, merely as part of the intellectual growing-pains of his age. He is striving to emancipate himself from too great dependence on his parents, and it is essential to his future success in life that he do so. If he is now attacked, either by scorn or by ridicule, he may be driven into a position from which he can not easily escape. If on the other hand he is met sympathetically and if every effort is made, without condescension, to help him get more infor-. Mation, better sources of material, and thus to work through his diffculties, he will end up on _ solid ground. (3) Finally, in attempting to work out the relationships in the home on an intelligent basis, parents must clarify their own minds by accepting a few basic principles and judging the various conflicting views with reference to these principles. Among many other possible standards of reference, it is suggested that parents must maintain a balance between the necessity for GROWTH and the necessity for SECURITY for each member of the family. These will be taken up in more detail in the two succeeding lessons. Questions and Problems 1. Analyze the happiest home you know. What in the backgrounds of the partners including such factors as health, education, religion, etc., contributed to making it a happy home? What factors contribute to making a home unhappy? 636 2. Analyze your own marriage. What difficulties have you had to meet that were due mainly to differences in backgrounds of yourself and your husband? (This question is not for group discussion.) 3. List three possible advantages and three possible disadvantages of marriage between persons of different racial or national background. 4. Which do you think would be likely to create the most trouble in a home,?wide differences in education of husband and wife, or wide RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE differences in their religious affiliation and outlook? Why? 5. It is notoriously hard to get men to attend, along with women, discussion groups dealing with problems of the family. What changes in the organization, management, time and place of meeting, method of conducting discussion, or subjects considered in these groups, do you think would be most effective in bringing about the full and free participation of the men? Literature for Missions TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH Lesson 4 Lijpa Maianna KUIPER DE JONG (HOLLAND) Nobility ls FOUND IN Every LAND THE subject of this short biographical sketch is unlike the other persons described in this series of articles in that she did not become a convert to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in her native land. On the other hand, it seems clear to those who know her and her family that the affairs of the de Jong family were definitely directed by the power of the Lord in order to bring her and hers to the headquarters of the Church. Lijda Marianna Kuiper was born on April 28, 1870, in the place called *tLoo, near Apeldoorn, Holland, where her parents lived on a small farm. Her father, Teunis Kuiper, was also employed as a gardener on the estate of the King, later of the Queen of Holland. Lijda was the second child in a family that ultimately counted thirteen children. Her schooling came to an end with her twelfth year, when she moved to the capital to work for her own support. Teunis Kuiper and' his wife were members of the Dutch Orthodox Church and were always extremely devout. The effects of spending her early years in this deeply religious atmosphere are noticeable even today. In Amsterdam Lijda became acquainted with and later married Gerrit de Jong, who was employed in a wholesale dry goods firm that did an international business. His mother belonged to the Mennonite Church, while his father, though inactive, was listed on the books of the Roman Catholic Church. Gerrit followed his mother's religious persuasion and became a member of her church. After their marriage both Lijda and her husband attended this church regularly. To this union two children were born: a boy, also named Gerrit, and a daughter, Trijntje. Desirous of giving their children an education the pair soon ventured into business for themselves, in which they were unusually successful, due largely to the untiring work and business ability which Lijda added to that of her husband. It should be noted that up to this LESSON DEPARTMENT point in her life she had not come in contact with the Church in any direct way. Because of the fact that the dry goods establishment which she helped her husband conduct was located just around the corner of a street on which the Latter-day Saints had rented a hall, Lijda and her husband visited a Mormon service once or twice, and were impressed with the practicality of the teachings given by the missionaries stationed there. Among these was Nicholas G. Smith, now a member of the Salt Lake Temple presidency. He used to come to the de Jong store occasionally as a customer and there became better acquainted with the family. Lijda's younger sister Marie had previously joined the Mormon Church and because of this was thereafter considered an outcast by the large Kuiper family. Lijda and her husband, however, showed more tolerance and always remained friendly to her, and corresponded regularly with her after she had gone to the Mission Home in London, England, to be employed there. When later Marie moved to Salt Lake City the correspondence continued. Apart from these indirect contacts the Church played no part in the life of the de Jong family. In spite of their material prosperity and the comparative contentment that a well respected place in their community and society brought them, the de Jongs were not satisfied with their lot and seemed to be reaching out for something not yet clearly defined. Lijda often prayed that for the sake of the family life the way might be opened for her to be relieved of the necessity of working incessantly with her husband in his business. As if in direct answer to her prayer, something did happen that radically changed the course of their existence. One night a devastating fire completely wiped out their business enterprise. This left them face to face with the choice of either beginning all over again or emigrating to a new country. The latter was decided upon. Now, at that time a new country almost invariably meant America. Since Lijda's sister Marie, the only person in America they knew well, happened to be living in Salt Lake City, it was decided to move to that city. Thus it was that with her husband and two children Lijda sailed from Rotterdam on the steamer Potsdam in July, 1906, with the headquarters of the Mormon people as her destination. As if it were a good omen indicative of their future, the first person met after arriving in Salt Lake City was Nicholas G. Smith, the same Mormon missionary who had shopped in their store in Amsterdam. In his great surprise he could not refrain from exclaiming that he had certainly never expected this family to meet him in Zion. The family settled in the Seventeenth Ward, where Elder Smith lived. Soon they made many friends among their Mormon neighbors and were receiving the frequent visits of faithful block teachers and others desirous of bringing them the Gospel message. They were invited to attend the sacrament and auxiliary organization meetings of the ward. All became diligent investigators of the doctrines preached and lived by their new friends. In 1907 Lijda, her husband, and her daughter, were baptized into the Church, and the son joined the following year. All have been staunch members of the Church since that time. For her naturally religious inclinations Lijda found a better opportunity for complete expression than ever before, and in the Mormon philosophy of life she recognized that at-one-time undefined something for which she had been longing before coming to America. It must not be supposed that Lijda was spared the many hardships that those who are found by the Gospel in foreign countries have to endure. There were varied difficulties: those incident to the learning of a new language; the task of establishing a new home in a nation where living conditions differed from those she had been accustomed to; the necessity of finding a different occupation for the husband who could not carry on his own work because of the language handicap. Throughout all these vicissitudes Lijda showed herself at all times helpful, resourceful, and above all, willing to do a great deal of hard work to maintain her newly established home. This was especially true during the two years (1909-11) her husband was in his native land as a missionary for the Church. Sister de Jong bears a strong testimony of the divinity of the restored Gospel and shows her devotion to the cause of truth by living an exemplary Latter-day Saint life. By nature she has always been very active, and membership in the Church of Christ has given her welcome opportunities for using her activity to a good purpose. She takes pride not only in serving, but in serving well even in little things. Among those in need she is known for her unbounded generosity, and an eagerness to work for the welfare and happiness of others. The home she maintained both in Europe and America has always been the rendezvous of numerous friends. Her greatest satisfaction, however, comes from the thought that, through the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE instrumentality of the Church, her wish for the success of her children has been quite fulfilled. Her son is a recognized scholar, holds a responsible position in the educational work carried on by the Church, is a high councilor in his stake, a member of the Deseret Sunday School Union general board, and a member of the General Music Committee of the Church. Her daughter is an ardent Church worker, having served as Relief Society president in her ward, and in other capacities. Now the third generation, Sister de Jong's ten grandchildren, are carrying on the work of service in which she has such an enviable record. Her sterling qualities have inspired a host of others besides her own children to be just, fair and to achieve spiritually as well as materially.
Topics for Consideration
1. The foregoing sketch of Lijda de Jong is brief but what evidence in her life do you find that "God moves in a mysterious way His wonders to perform."?
2. Why do you think that to "judge a tree by its fruit" is to use a good method of judging?
3. Learning from the text the quality of her children what kind of woman do you believe her to be?
4. State Lijda de Jong's chief qualities.
5. How do you explain the fact that she did not join the Church in Holland?
6. State the circumstances of her joining the Church in Salt Lake City.
7. What evidence have you for believing she is an excellent Latter-day Saint?
LESSON DEPARTMENT
Social Service
Lesson 4
Should I Be Afraid?
I. The Lesson in Brief. "Fear arises when we know enough to recognize the potential danger in a situation but have not advanced to the point of complete comprehension and control of the changing situation." (Jones, Mary C. "Emotional Development." Chap. 6. P. 276, Handbook of Child Psychology, Ed. By Carl Murchison.) The danger we seem to see in a situation need not be real danger. Fears based on imagined danger are most difficult to eradicate. The avoidance of the fear producing situations promotes ignorance of the true facts, and the ignorance in turn permits fear to run rampant. As we learn the facts, we gain control of the situation and fear is overcome. Some fears of childhood persist in adult life, some from severe emotional shock and some from teachings of parents, playmates, and others. Most adult fears, however, are based on a sense of insecurity as to financial and vocational status, health and welfare of loved ones, and one's spiritual standing with God. Vague fears and anxiety, when given no task upon which to work, dissipate more energy than hard work. "Constructive worrying" is suggested as a method of removing the cause underlying the fear, a means of putting fear to work. Some applications of Latter-day Saint philosophy to the problem of fear are suggested, and a guide to the management of fear is given in summary.
II. Why Are We Afraid? We are perhaps safe in assuming that every normal adult experiences certain kinds of fears. When we recognize in a situation factors which we think are not likely to be for our good, we usually withdraw from the situation. Fear is a type of withdrawal. In confronting circumstance which has in it elements which are clearly dangerous to our welfare, or which we vividly imagine are dangerous, we experience an emotion of fear and withdraw promptly. In withdrawing, we afford ourselves an opportunity to survey conditions from a distance and to recruit our resources for the struggle, if that is what is required. We may then become angry as we recognize what it is that is threatening us. In children, fears are based on a lack of knowledge and how to control potentially harmful conditions. Darkness is fearful because children do not know what might be there, and can therefore make no better adjustment to the situation than to take the benefit of the doubt and withdraw. They probably have an inborn fear of loud sounds such as thunder; and when this is coupled with darkness and lack of understanding of what thunder is, the child develops intense fear. In the lesson on emotion, we saw that fear is the emotion which usually appears when conditions get out of control and the possibility of harm appears quite clear to us. The uncertainty of outcome is characteristic of fear producing situations. If fears were always based upon fact, they would be quite amenable to control; many of our most besetting fears are not based upon actual danger, but upon imagined danger. When the conditions promoting fear are imagined there is nothing concrete to attack in the effort to remove them. Thus, the person who fears the last days and approaching destruction of the world, fears an idea that can neither be proved nor disproved; he is quite likely to persist in his fear. People who fear that they are being pursued by evil spirits, fear something that reason and proof seem incapable of removing. An investigation (Jersild and others, 1933) of the fears of four hundred children from five to twelve years of age showed that 21.1 per cent of all the fears named first were fears of the supernatural, of mystery, skeletons, corpses and death; 17.8 per cent were fears of animals; 14.1 per cent were fears of strange happenings and places, of being in the dark; 8.8 per cent of nightmares and apparitions; fears of bad people, kidnappers, robbers, etc., constituted 7.3 per cent of their fears. Most of these fears are irrational and the treatment suggested was as follows: "The most effective techniques in overcoming fears are those that help the child to become more competent and skillful and that encourage him to undertake active dealings with the thing that he fears." (Jersild, A. T., and Holmes, F. B., "Methods of Overcoming Fears." Jl. Of Psychology, 1936, Vol. 1, p. 102, see also pp. 75-104.) In the foregoing survey, not a single child mentioned a single experience with the object it feared. The conclusion first to come to mind is that most of these fears were acquired from parents and playmates, or other persons, whom the child has heard air their feelings about these objects. For a truth, most of the fears children have are those he learns from his associates, since there seem to be no complete inherited fears. Adults may have persistent fears which to them seem ridiculous because they are so childish. These persistent fears are sometimes extremely annoying because they resist treatment. Generally they can be traced to vivid experiences in childhood, if a thorough enough search is made. They may be fear of water, fear of a certain kind of animal, or even fear of a certain kind of people with a specific peculiarity. An exhaustive search into one's remote past often reveals that some severe shock was experienced in connection with objects of a given kind. Because the origin of the fear is so remote, we often have completely forgotten the circumstance. A tendency of our memories to obliterate unpleasant events aids in this process of forgetting the cause of fear. In some cases, simply to uncover the origin will forthwith remove the fear, but more commonly the fear remains even after we know how it developed. It is then necessary to recondition ourselves to the fear-arousing objects, by approaching them simultaneously with some pleasant object, or sometimes by simply acquainting ourselves with them so thoroughly and so often that they lose their fear-exciting force. It is possible to retain irrational fears that are not of this origin, but those we simply absorb from the people with whom we grow up. Even as adults we are often needlessly afraid of snakes of a harmless nature, afraid of thunder, afraid of being left alone at nights, and afraid of ghosts. Much help may be gained by simply thinking these fears through in a rational way and attempting to gather all the information we can to show how needless they are. There is a distinct difference between intelligent caution where actual danger is present, and fears that are not based on real danger and which therefore serve no purpose in protecting ourselves.
LESSON DEPARTMENT III. We Do Not Stop to Investigate What We Fear. The very nature of fear leads us away from the object we fear. We, therefore, do not linger to learn much about that object, as we would about one that arouses pleasant emotions. To practice one of the best cures for fear, however, we must work exactly contrary to this natural withdrawal impulse, i. e. we must approach the object and find out as much as we can about it. We must inquire either to determine that our fear is unfounded in fact, or to learn more about what is required to make the proper adjustment to the situation. When we run away, we rarely accomplish either purpose. If we hear strange sounds at the window and hurriedly hide in the closet, we do not learn that perhaps boys are playing a prank and that there is no need to fear; nor on the other hand do we learn that someone is molesting our property and that we should call for the police. Our primitive ancestors feared thunder and lightning as the acts of wrathful gods; they knew none of the laws of nature as we do today. Superstitions are attempts to explain away fears that do not have a more logical explanation. Among uncultured peoples even today we find innumerable superstitions of this kind. When we know all about a thing, we are in a better position to control it if it is dangerous, and not to fear it if we understand that it is harmless. Civilized people are therefore less afflicted with fears of natural phenomena. Civilized peoples have their own variety of fears, however, which are none the less energy consuming. Most of our major adult fears are of social consequences, such as the fear of financial or vocational failure and disgrace, fear of creating enemies, and fear of broken health and consequent inability to meet one's responsibilities. These fears are not exactly an outcome of lack of information, although in some cases they are more imaginary than real, and one does well to determine always exactly how much real fact there is behind any fear in order to make a more intelligent adjustment if the fear is well founded or to dispel it if there is no basis for it. We often are "afraid to find whether it is true" that we may need an operation, for example.
IV. Adult Fears are Usually Based on a Sense of Insecurity. What, then, shall we say is the basis of most adult fears? If we have disposed of certain irrational fears which carry over from either childhood crises or social influences from those with whom we have grown up, what shall we say of the fears that do not seem to fit into this interpretation and treatment? The constantly apprehensive and fearful person will be found on careful study to be usually a person with feelings of insecurity, and this feeling often arises from having failed to reach one's ambitions in life, from a habit of constant failure, or perhaps from a deep sense of sin arising from an over-strict conscience. Personalities of this kind often can be traced to parent-child relationships which were either over-solicitous or overprotected and over-restrictive. A normal sense of responsibility and courage to face the world as it is can hardly develop in the child when the parents shelter him from every possible danger and do all of his thinking. Fears in adults often reflect a lack of normal broad experience, a lack of control over the world they meet, which comes only through continued success in dealing with difficult problems. Among conscientious, religious people, one of the most common sources of fear is the sense of guilt for not having complied with every letter of the religious or moral code. This source of fear is most common among the people who have lived so uprightly that their little "sins" are hardly serious enough to worry about. The fact that they have a guilty conscience at all is fair sign that they have lived uprightly, for those who live wicked lives have no conscience to prick them when they side-step. Religious teachings are sometimes misconstrued by people with a sense of guilt to mean that they have lost their place in the esteem of God. We somehow easily come to feel that sins are such permanent stains on our record. Why not think of repentance as a process of education? As we learn, we repent of our ignorance and grow spiritually. So long as we see the error of our ways, whether they be called sins or mistakes, and promptly mend them, we re-enter into the grace of God through the door of repentance, the second principle of the Gospel. This door is always open. God could not be pleased to see progress hampered by a lingering sense of guilt, no matter what our folly may have been. A good conscience and sincere faith in God know no fear. The Gospel as taught by Jesus was a Gospel of love, not one of fear.
V. Vague Fears and Anxiety Expend More Energy Than Heavy Work. A brilliant medical student was approaching the final examinations on a year's heavy course. Suddenly he went completely to pieces. He said he had worked himself to death over his examinations. The report was carried to some of his professors and a request made for an extension of time for preparing for the examinations. One professor seemed indignant at the suggestion that a student had worked himself into such a condition. He said, "Tell me about his financial and romantic worries and I shall tell you better why he broke down." Investigation revealed that he had secretly married while at school and that his widowed mother had learned of his action and had threatened to cut off his financial support. These worries in turn had kept him from applying himself to reviewing the year's work. It soon became apparent to him that he probably would fail his examinations on this account. All of these worries soon combined into a vicious circle which finally dissipated his mental energy to the breaking point. After the examinations had been postponed and the domestic and financial worries intelligently met by both the young man and his mother, he recuperated and finished his schooling with a good record. While it is true that worry and fear thrive better when a person is fatigued and ill, they may equally well cause fatigue and illness. A definite task, however difficult and unpleasant it may be, is a challenge to which one may apply his fullest energies. Effort that leads to goals is not so fatiguing as effort spent in worry and fear with no concrete accomplishment. Worrying may become an effective use of energy only in so far as it leads to a direct attack on the situation which produces the worry. Fear is unlike anger in that it runs away from the situation, while anger leads to attack. Fear that does not lead to an objective effort to remove the cause may easily spread to other circumstances and leave the person in a general state of anxiety.
VI. All Normal People Have Handicapping Fears. Life abounds with opportunities for growth for everyone. They are often overlooked because they present themselves to us as challenges for us to do something we probably have not done before. We are afraid to do the things at which we have not already succeeded. But they are the very challenges that make us grow. "Courage comes in having been there before." Any of us are likely to fear entering into those undertakings in which we have not previously tested our strength. Most of us would not think of accepting an invitation to sing in public, because we could not enhance our value in the eyes of others. No one would advise plunging into those challenges in which failure is evident before beginning, but everyone could profit by the habit of accepting gradually greater challenges as his strength grows. There is infinite human waste as a result of the almost universal fear of trying to do tasks a little more difficult than people are used to doing. It is possible to acquire the habit of laughing at fearful situations; it somehow gives a playful spirit which adds great zest to the adventure of finding a more enriched world for ourselves.
VII. Factors in Latter-day Saint Teachings Which Allay Fears. There is much in Latter-day Saint philosophy to give one a sense of security. Most everyone, whether religiously inclined or not, at some time or another becomes anxious about the final destiny of his spirit. Much satisfaction may be gained by the assurance that the spirit survives the body and that our ultimate destiny is more secure than the clay of which we are formed. The Atonement grants us the assurance that we shall all be made alive again: "For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive again." (1. Cor. 15:22.) There is no better safeguard against the fear of death than an implicit faith in the Atonement. Faith, the first principle of the Gospel, is psychologically the opposite of fear. "Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen." (Heb. 11:1.) Where we cannot see, faith hopes for the best, fear runs away with an anticipation of the worst. That it was not the spirit of Christ to leave people who had sinned with a condemned spirit to handicap their progress was illustrated in the incident of the woman who was brought to Christ to be condemned for a grievous sin. "But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground, as though he heard them not. So when they continued asking him, he lifted himself up, and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. And again he stooped down, and wrote on the ground. And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the last: and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst. When Jesus had lifted up himself, and saw none but the woman, he said unto her, Woman, where are thine accusers, hath no man condemned thee? She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more." (John 8: 1-11.) The teachings of Christ are replete with reassuring thoughts: "Peace on earth good will toward men"; "Fear not, and be not afraid"; "If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth." There is strength to ward off fear and insecurity in the answers our philosophy gives to the questions of the great verities: the existence of God, the origin and destiny of man, and the free agency of man to work out his own salvation. A well thought out and sincerely believed philosophy of life assists materially in the great struggle against insecurity and anxiety. It gives direction to our living, and no one is more insecure than he who does not know where he is going.
VIII. A Guide for Preventing and Overcoming Fears.
1. Acquire the habit of prompt investigation of the circumstance underlying fear. Don't let a fear become a habit.
2. Look for the cause of persistent and unexplained fears. Search out your childhood experiences, if necessary. Find out what kind of teaching you were given as a child with regard to the object of your fear.
3. Don't be apprehensive over slight lapses in conduct. If your conscience bothers you over small "sins" it proves you have lived so well that your conscience is still alive.
4. Cultivate the general life habit of undertaking tasks you are reasonably sure of accomplishing. Gain self-assurance by the habit of success.
5. Avoid extreme fatigue, and maintain good physical condition.
6. Cultivate the habit of "constructive worrying" to replace destructive anxiety. Do something!
7. Uncondition fears by associating fearful circumstances with pleasant surroundings. Gradually accustom yourself to being in the presence of the fearful object without being afraid.
8. Learn to see the humor in fearful situations.
9. Don't fight fear directly, but fight the situations which produce fear.
Problems for Discussion
1. Enumerate some fears that are valuable in making a good adjustment. Name a few that serve no worth while purpose.
 . Discuss two general classes of fears that may carry over from childhood into maturity. Why do you suppose these fears are so persistent? 3. Discuss the relationship between ignorance and fear. Show how ignorance and fear are combined into a vicious circle. 4. What is the chief characteristic of most normal adult fears which have not been carried over from childhood? 5. Recommend a rule for "worrying effectively." 6. Give your ideas on the role of a sense of guilt in producing fears and anxiety. Refer to Church teachings which would tend to discourage a sense of sin. 7. Show how the habit of success and adult courage are related. 8. How does childhood training for a normal sense of independence contribute to courage in meeting adult problems? 9. Show how Latter-day Saint philosophy contributes to a sense of security in meeting the great verities.
References for Further Study
1. Burnham, H. W. The Normal Mind, pp. 417-450. New York; Appleton, 1924.
2. Louttit, C. M. Clinical Psychology, pp. 465-472. New York: Harpers, 1936.
3. Morgan, J. J. B. The Psychology of Abnormal People, pp. 243-249. New York: Longmans, Green, 1928.
4. Morgan, M. J. B. Keeping a Sound Mind, pp. 63-98. New York: Macmillan, 1934.
5. Overstreet, H. A. About Ourselves, pp. 123-136. New York, Norton, 1927.
6. Sadler, W. S. Theory and Practice of Psychiatry, pp. 974-978. St. Louis, Mo.: Mosby, 1936.