[Vol50 | July 1963 | Page 543 | Lesson | Visiting Teacher Messages — "Wherefore, I Say Unto You, That Ye Ought to Forgive One Another" • Christine | H. Robinson]
VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 49 — "Wherefore, I Say Unto You, That Ye Ought to Forgive One Another" (D & C 64:9). Christine H. Robinson For First Meeting, October 1963 Objective: To show how forgiveness ennobles, enriches, and purifies our souls. HE principle of forgiveness, as described in this passage from the Doctrine and Covenants, is emphasized not only as a fundamental part of the gospel, but also as an essential guide_to full, happy. Living.__In the 64th Section of The Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord gives the above quoted passage and then continues, "For he that forgiveth not his brother His trespasses standeth condemned 'before the Lord; for there remaineth in him the greater sin" (D & C 64:9). In other words, he who fails to forgive commits even a "greater sin" than he who has sinned against him. Without doubt, the greatest example of divine forgiveness in the world was expressed in the dramatic words uttered by the Savior as he hung in agony on the cross, ""Father, forgive them; for they know -not what they do" (Luke 23:34). One of the glorious aspects of the principle of forgiveness is the purifying and ennobling effects its application has upon the personality and character of the forgiver. Someone wisely said, "He who has not forgiven a wrong or an injury has not 542 yet tasted one of the sublime enjoyments of life." 'The human soul seldom rises to such heights of strength and nobility as when it removes all resentments and _ forgives errors and malice. When one harbors resentment against another, it does the recipient little harm, but it shrivels and corrodes the soul of the one holding the grudge. When one hates another for some real or. Imagined wrong, the feeling of hatred assumes power and dominion over one's thoughts, sleep, health, happiness and even over one's appearance. The most. Expensive. Clothes and_ best beauty treatment cannot blot out the hard looks and appearance that are the by-products of hatred, resentment, and the unforgiving soul. Shakespeare said it this way, "Heat not a furnace for your foe. So hot that it do singe yourself:" Jesus fully realized the damaging effect of unforgiveness upon our characters and ° personalities. He said, "Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and ersecute you" (Matt. 5:44). This One of the world's most beautiful ountains, located in Jasper NationPark in Canada, was named for dith Cavell. Edith Cavell was a artime nurse executed by her emies for having hidden, nursed, d fed wounded soldiers. As she ood before the firing squad she ttered these deathless words now reserved in bronze and granite, "I lize that patriotism is not enough. Must have no hatred or bitterness ward anyone." If we have been wronged or inred, forgiveness means to blot it mpletely from our minds. 'To LESSON DEPARTMENT forgive and forget is an ageless counsel. "To be wronged or robbed," said the Chinese philosopher Con- -fucius, "is nothing unless you continue to remember it." In addition to the purifying and ennobling 'effects forgiveness has upon our own souls, this principle comes to us as divine instruction from our Father in heaven, and is a requisite upon which he grants us his forgiveness. It has been said, "He that cannot forgive others, breaks the bridge over which he must pass himself, for every man hath need to be forgiven." The Savior said "For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your Heavenly Father will also forgive you" (Matt. 6:14). WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home rt. Virginia F. Cutler or Second Meeting, October 1963 I } F all our social institutions, none exerts stronger or more lasting fluence upon the development of mily. Moral values, artistic. And cultural tastes, goals and aspirations are first implanted in the family circle. This imposes on the family group the necessity to work harMoniously together to develop con- € individual personality than the I genial and cooperative relationships Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) iscussion 9: The Family As a Planning Group jective: To encourage family members to actively engage in planning sessions where I matters pertaining to family betterment may be studied and wise solutions developed. With each other here on earth. Regular planning sessions facilitate the achievement of these goals. For the most part, a family living in one household is a two-generation family — parents and_ -: children. However, the third and fourth generations should not be forgotten in the planning. Final decisions are. Made by the two-generation group, but the wisdom of the elders is 


 helpful in all major family, developments. The mother, who is the queen of the household, should, under the direction of the father, see to it that regular planning sessions are held. She is the home manager. She is in a position to become well acquainted with the unique personality of: each. Child and to know something of his potentiality. She has an important role in guiding and directing the planning sessions in such a way as to bring about harmony, love, understanding, and maximum growth and development for each member. It is important for the homemaker to know about current problems and to become well informed about theories for their solution; to "obtain a knowledge of history, and of countries, and of kingdoms, of laws of God and man.". (D&C 93:53). Now let us look at some of the problems of the day that require thoughtful study by the homemaker: 1. The family in Western society is no longer a producing unit. It has become a consuming unit, which means that production has been taken over by the community, and family members have moved out into the community to earn their daily bread. This lessens the time that the family can be together and multiplies the outside influences that affect personality development. This means that the homemaker must exert every power she has to upgrade the quality of time spent together as a family. Planning sessions are essential, if the cooperation of each member is achieved. A certain amount of production can still be carried on in the home if it is planned. One can argue that if a money value is placed on the time required for making a loaf of bread, most folks could earn 544 more outside, but if the time spent is considered in terms of training the chil dren to carry through an assignment, catch the thrill of accomplishment, and have something on the table as a result of their efforts, these intangible values cannot be measured in dollars and cents, and they will have a never-ending effect on the participants. "The homemaker will know of numerous such projects that can be planned where she will have opportunity to teach her children far more than just the skill required for a specific task. 2. The trend toward automation is throwing. People out of work. This may affect those who earn the income. Continuous learning, continuous progress toward acquiring skills and abilities for continuous growth must be in the planning picture to give greater family security for the future. 3. More and more people are being crowded into smaller and smaller space as population increases. 'There will probably be more multiple housing in the future and less chance to have a plot of ground for a garden spot. Careful study and planning for family housing suitable for the growth and: development of family members, is of basic importance. 4.. There is an increase in the duration of the life span, and at the same time a shortening of the earning years, which places a greater burden of dependence on the early and the late years of life. What long-time planning is necessary to launch the children and get ready for the years ahead? 5. Educational and employment pres sures cause people to move around the globe for desired opportunities. How can families acquire a feeling of stability and develop a sense of responsibility to their community and to their country when they never stay long enough in one place to put their roots down? The answer is contained in the history of our people. No matter how brief the stay in Kirtland, a-temple was built, and homes. Were made beautiful. No matter how brief the sta in Nauvoo, a temple was built, and th city became known as "The City Beauttful." To accomplish this rooted feelin in a short time takes much thought an planning. 6. Young people are marrying at an earlier age. Too often two untrained children start the marriage partnership poorly prepared. Preparation for marriage begins in the nursery, and the parents have the obligation to tram the children and become worthy of their respect so that their wisdom and advice will continue to be sought. This is a big order and takes much planning — step by step. 7. This stop-look-and-listen age has affected many people with spectator-itis. They like picture magazines instead of first-source material. 'They watch television entertainment. We forfeit indiLESSON DEPARTMENT vidual development by watching many programs of no cultural value. We must plan for the development of future leaders. 'Training in musicianship is needed today. Latter-day Saints are taking positions of leadership and can wield an increasing influence for the good of mankind if they are trained to do so. Homemakers, your task is a great one! Think! Plan! Be the guiding and directing influence to bring about the best possible earthly experience for you and your family. LITERATURE ® America's Literature The Last Hundred Years Lesson 41 — Mark Twain, a Great American Conscience (1835-1910) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes, Dryden Press, New York, pp. 617-651) For Third Meeting, October 1963 Objective: To recognize Mark Twain's moral ideals and conflicts which shaped his literary art and his greatness. LL the world loves both love and laughter, therefore Twain is twice revered for he has come to be symbol of both, to his own age as to ours. And the five decades which have passed since his death, in 1910, have been increasingly kind to him. In his own lifetime he was so overwhelmingly considered to be merely a personality and a "funny man" that almost all American literary critics, save his great friend and advisor, William Dean Howells, ignored him as not meriting serious consideration. 'Today he ranks with his country's literary giants. He has Mark Twain
