[Vol50 | July 1963 | Page 500 | Fiction | Kiss of the Wind, Chapter 1 • Rosa | Lee Lloyd]
The Relief Society Magazine JULY 1963 VOLUME 50 NUMBER 7 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 483 "And they ga shall also teach their" Elder A. Theodore Tuttle Of the First Council of Seventy HE cry from the children's bedroom brought both parents to the bedside of their frightened, three-year-old son, awakened by a loud clap of thunder in the storm raging outside. Bending close, the mother whispered, "The wind is only whistling a tune; you can whistle like the wind, if you try." As the parents left the room their little boy was whistling softly, matching the high crescendo of the wind as it whistled through the eaves. As they looked in on each of the other children, straightening them out and covering them up, they mused: "How blessed we are — how fortunate to have these lovely children to love and protect and teach." Then as they prayed once again that night, they asked for wisdom beyond their years or natural ability to help them perform the full responsibility of parenthood. The Lord placed upon the shoulders of parents a major lifetime responsibility when he said, "... And they shall also teach their children...." Modern revelation teaches us that the spirit children 484 that are lent to us constitute our kingdom. There are surprisingly few who realize that their prime responsibility is so to teach their children that the association they now enjoy shall be perpetual in the eternities to come. DECIDE TO BE PARENTS This decision does not refer to the biological function only (though certainly the Lord has been specific enough regarding this function in this age of decision). Rather, this decision to be parents means to put first the obligation to be baby-sitters, trainers, discipliners, supervisors, teachers, — assigners, checker-uppers, planners, story-tellers, exemplars, and, in short, to be common, ordinary, garden variety, old-fashioned, on-the-job, full-time parents. It means that this responsibility as parents comes before social climbing, the newest in gadgets, or conspicuous consumption. It supersedes personal selfishness, propriety, pleasure, even a tidy house. It demands solemn and continual allegiance to a cause greater than self. Fulfillment of this parental duty develops all of the virtues that can be named, and requires the application of all the qualities that make men great. But to participate in the joy of this privilege, as the Lord has intended, requires a conscious decision to accept the responsibilities of this sacred obligation — the most sacred and farreaching obligation assumed by two people. A SOLEMN OBLIGATION Although the family is generally considered to be a free and natural association, it is the Lord's predesigned plan to bring to earth and to educate his spirit children. Hence he has given many general and specific instructions about this relationship: But whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea (Matt. 18:6). And again, inasmuch as parents have children in Zion... That teach them not... The sin be upon the heads of the parents (D & C 68:25). In the excellent book, Youth and the Church by Elder Harold B. Lee, a warning is sounded to parents — if they will listen. He quotes J. Edgar Hoover, who cites the alarming rise in youth delinquency, then concludes, saying: America's youth, indicted by public opmion as reckless and carefree, is blamed for these misdeeds. The real fault lies elsewhere. Before a youth has broken the law, some adult has committed a more scrious crime. Driven by lust for money and enslaved by pleasure, the adult gen- "AND THEY SHALL ALSO TEACH THEIR CHILDREN" eration forgets that the most solemn obligation any person can assume in the eyes of God and man is to guide and direct a child along proper paths. 'To place anything ahead of that responsibility is akin to criminal negligence. Is it. Any wonder the Lord has given such strict commands respecting this relationship—particularly as it pertains to children? PROBLEM OF TIME Once a father and mother really decide to be parents to their children, they can take the necessary steps to become such. 'The first major issue parents must face, and resolve, is the matter of time. A few excerpts from Dr. G. Homer Durham's excellent article specifically pinpoint this problem for many Latter-day Saint parents. The fundamental issue... Is probably not lack of desire, attitude, instruction, or preachment to parents. 'The issue may be fundamentally an issue of time. 'This is my best observation, offered as a social scientist. 'Too many of us have become "organization men and women." We are ambitious people. We work hard all day. We fill our nights with organizational activities; business; educational; church; civic; plus dinner clubs. The harsh truth is that little or no time is scheduled for the family. The family is supposed to get along with unscheduled time, of which none is usually left! In the rural society most older parents still remember, there was always left-over time. In modern, urban, industrial society, evcry organization tends to become a time-demanding, time-consuming monster. When the job... The service club, the social functions that go with the job, the chamber of commerce, the labor union, the professional association, the educational front, the many-facected religious organizations, all train their demands for the individual's time — there is no time left.... Too few modern urban men have learned to say "no" to demands on 


 time which must be literally fought for, in which to snatch a few moments to collect, organize, and administer a family. Most families are not administered. They proceed by chance, circumstance, and the grace of organization.... The family is the principal social casualty of the industrial revolution. All that solidly remains is the biological function: a young husband and wife in their years of producing the young. As soon as the young are old enough to become mobile, they go or are whisked away by the modern multi-leviathans of organization. Can the unorganized family compete with the organized organizations and_ survive? Can the family organize itself and function successfully in some time sacred to it? (DurHam, Dr. G. Homer: "Time for the Family," The Improvement Era, March 1960, pp. 206-207). BSERVANT parents recognize the truth of these statements. While some will continue to be satished with "left-over time" to manage their families, others will become aroused; and, fortified by their decision to make their parental role the most important function of their lives, put the family first and revolve other necessary duties and activities around it. Even then, parents who have had experience in rearing families know that compromises will be required; but rather than using "leftover time," the family can pre-empt "prime time" to itself and allocate to the other multitude of activities left-over time. This will require a forthrightness and vigor uncommon to most parents and families, but an action that will deserve and merit the blessing of heaven. YOUTH TALKS TO PARENTS When parents understand the true desires of their children, they will be willing to put this responsi- 486 bility first. If parents need a priority list of things to be done with, for, and to their children, listen to a summary of the opinions of over 42,000 of them. The family needs to become a family again instead of just a group of "... Individuals together." The family needs to do things together. They should play, work, study, go to church, go on outings, have family nights and create a wholesome family life. There needs to be more interest in and love for teenagers from their parents. Parents need to show a _ willingness to "... Talk over the problems of youth." Teenagers want more opportunities to confide in their parents. "We grow up too fast." There are too many privileges for early dating and early use of automobiles. And, further, from the hearts of today's teenagers, comes this plea for help: "Parents need to assume more leadership. Put father back at the head of the family." Parents should set a good example for harmonious family life. There needs to be a better definition of home duties. We want to know what is expected of us. Parents are "... Justified in setting hours for teenagers to return from dates." Teenage marriages are too often the result of youth who are " trying to escape an unhappy home life." They think it is the "... Easy way out." 'They think it will "... Solve their problems." "Early dating and the use of automobiles.. 2" also contribute to early marrlages. These are part of the comments and suggestions taken from the Utah 1960 White House Conference on Children and Youth, a study undertaken to give youth an opportunity to say what they regard as the most important problems they face to- 2 day; and also to suggest solutions to these problems. 'These reports were received from a total of ninety-nine high schools and junior high schools, with 42,014 students taking part in the discussions. Certainly the delineation of these problems, and the suggested solutions, deserve — even demand — the attention of mothers and fathers who have a desire to create an ideal Latter-day Saint family. WHAT CAN PARENTS DO? Reread youth's plea. They are saying, "We want someone to be in charge." They want someone to "assume more leadership." Specifically, they mentioned father — "at the head of the family." Incidentally, it must be kept in mind that neither mother nor the children can put father at the head of the family (if they "put" him there, they could remove him). Father must assume his role as the head of the family — as the Lord intended. A clearer understanding of the Priesthood function of the father is necessary for both father and family in order to clarify his role as the directing head of the home. Wives can encourage and_ sustain their husbands, but they should make certain that they do not try to usurp his proper function. THE FAMILY COUNCIL Little success can be achieved by the family administrator unless the planning of all family activities can be done by the family. For very small children these are "practice sessions'; for teenagers this is, or ought to be, a real experience in Priesthood leadership and democ- "AND THEY SHALL ALSO TEACH THEIR CHILDREN" racy — with the father taking the lead in the family gathering. For the less formal organizer, breakfast, noon, or evening mealtime will serve as a starter toward family council sessions. For the more stalwart, an evening once a week can be prescribed and appointed for all. When the parents sacrifice to be there, give up pleasures, change appointments, etc., all others will see the value and necessity of similar effort. These are the gatherings in which parents have real opportunity to fulfill the suggestions of the youth. It will take more than a few sessions to develop an appropriate set of rules and regulations to govern the family, and longer to teach and implement them. 'These sessions can settle such issues as the use of the family car, the standard of modesty in dress, the 'I'V programs to choose and times set for watching, the hour at which the children will be expected home from various activities — decided jointly by the children and the parents, and the allocation of the necessary family chores. Fortunate indeed is the family whose situation is such that chores must be performed daily; and where they are not, the parents need to define the home duties better. 'The children are saying, "We want to know what is expected of us." 'These sessions can be among the choicest and richest in a family's experience. FOLLOW YOUR HEART There are many fine suggestions now available in the Church periodicals, and other places, on ideas for family experiences and helps in rearing children. No excuse exists 


 for parents not knowing what to do or how to enjoy and bless their families. 'The good ideas available should be chosen and only those used which are applicable to each different family situation.* Parents. No' doubt have concern wondering just which "expert'' psychologist or which child specialist they should follow. If parents do not have access to some of these sources (or if they get confused reading too much), they can take the advice of an eminently successful teacher: "Just do what your heart tells you. You cannot go wrong rearing your family or trying to provide rich experiences for them, when you really demonstrate that you love your children." FOLLOW INSTRUCTIONS GIVEN BY THE LORD The Lord has been rather specific in outlining responsibilities of parents; they should read Section 68:25-31 of the Doctrine and Covenants. Note what the Lord said parents are to teach their children to do: 1." to pray " Such a simple thing, but, oh, the power of prayer. Teach how to pray and then strive to match the simple faith that children have. Set the example by having family prayer night and morning — having each child, in turn, offer the prayer for the family. There have been many exhaustive studies made and lucid dissertations written on the subject of how to rear children and maintain happy family relations. Unfortunately, the authors of many of the otherwise excellent suggestions have omitted the one means of contact with their Heavenly Father — the binding influence in family unity — the daily practice of family prayer. It is a purifying and humbling experience to listen to a child pray for God to bless his father and mother with wisdom sufficient to rear the family properly. It knits parents closer to their children when they pray that the children will be obedient and helpful, do well in their school work and in their lives, and when the blessings of heaven are invoked upon the family. And the marvelous thing about prayer is that God hears and answers these sincere prayers. 2. " to walk uprightly." This statement covers a multitude of responsibilities. Fathers need not wonder why their children swear, when they have failed to teach their sons not to swear. One day a neighbor, who caught a small boy stealing tomatoes from his garden, said, "Young man, you are stealing. Now you run home and tell your father you were caught stealing, and tell him to tell you why you shouldn't steal." It is the privilege and obligation of a father to teach his sons not to steal, or lie, or cheat, or in any way be dishonest. It is his duty to teach his sons what honor and chastity and integrity are — as much by ex- *Samples of the many good articles in this area are two articles by Beverly Romney Cutler which appeared in the December 1962 and January 1963 issues of The Improvement Era, and a booklet entitled Creative Family Living, published by Olympus Publishing Company, Salt Lake City, Utah. See also the April 1963 issue of the Era. 488 ample as by precept. Others may supplement these teachings, but the father cannot escape this primary responsibility. 3. "... To observe the Sabbath day." What a challenge to a parent to teach this and then augment the instruction by way of example — and what a joy when he does! 'The dividends on such instructions return many fold, usually soon, but always in future years. 4. "... To understand the doctrine " Parents, generally, have underestimated the abilities of children to understand the doctrine of the Church and, therefore, have delayed too long teaching them the principles of the gospel. 'They should try an experiment of explaining one of the basic principles of the gospel to their children, even the young ones, and see if they cannot grasp it; retell it; and even amplify it, with a simple statement or a question. "REPROVING BETIMES WITH SHARPNESS...." One of the finest statements on the psychology of disciplining children is found in Section 121:43 of the Doctrine and Covenants: Reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then Showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy. This one verse includes all that is generally put in a chapter on child training, and, in addition, it directs how to maintain a wholesome relationship thereafter. "AND THEY SHALL ALSO TEACH THEIR CHILDREN" BE A PAL TO YOUR CHILDREN Fathers have an equal responsibility with mothers in the storytelling department. Fathers ought to ponder seriously the question: "When was the last time I told my children a story?" If the family is young, it should not have been very long. Children have claim upon fathers for stories — continued, true, personal, or make-believe. 'This experience can be one of the fondest memories when children grow older and tell "company" about the interesting stories their father used to tell them. A neighbor looked across the fence at a father with his son astride his back and said, "You'll have an aching back tomorrow." The father paused for a breath and _ replied, "Better an aching back tomorrow than an aching heart in the future!" There is no finer, more delightful relationship than a father and his sons as pals. Being pals starts early in life and must be worked at continually — particularly by the father. The rewards are joy and peace in this life, and association together in the life to come. SUMMARY Parenthood is the greatest responsibility laid on two people. 'They must decide to be parents in the fullest meaning of the term, then make time their servant by deliberate management. Help should be sought from the rest of the family and from the many other sources available. Even inexperienced parents cannot go wrong if they will but follow the instructions of the Lord and demonstrate their love for their children. 489 He Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith Part I] — Presipenr JOHN 'TAYLOR of the Church, was born in the - J OHN Taylor, the third President town of Milnthorpe, Westmoreland County, England, on November 1, 1808. In 1830, the parents of John Taylor and all the members of the family except John, emigrated to Canada. He followed in 1832 and settled near 'Toronto. Through the teaching of Parley P. Pratt, John Taylor was converted to Mormonism in 1836. In 1837 he visited Kirtland, Ohio, and met the Prophet Joseph Smith, who became: his close personal friend. In December 1835 he was made a member of the Quorum of Twelve Apostles. After the death of the Prophet Joseph Smith in 1844, John 'Taylor followed President Brigham Young and the saints to Salt Lake Valley. There he was very active in all the affairs of the Church; he also filled several foreign missions, and missions in the United States. When President Brigham Young died in August 1877, John Taylor became the President of the Church. He presided ten years until his death in July 1887. 490 Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian President John Taylor On account of his close association with the Prophet Joseph Smith, he frequently referred to the life and activities of the great Prophet. Following are some of his comments: "Joseph Smith, in the first place, was set apart by the Almighty, according to the councils of the Gods in the eternal worlds, to introduce principles of life among the people, of which the Gospel is the grand power and influence, and through which salvation can extend to all peoples, all nations, all kindreds, all tongues, and worlds. It is the principle that brings life and immortality to light, and places us in communication with God. God selected him for that purpose, and he fulfilled his mission and he lived honorably and died honorably. I know of what I speak, for I was very well acquainted with him, and was with him a great deal during his life, and was with him when he died (Journal of Discourses 21:94). "Who was Joseph Smith?... God chose this young man. He was ignorant of letters as the world has it, but the most profoundly learned and intelligent man that I ever met in my life, and I have traveled hundreds of thousands of miles, been on different continents and mingled among all classes and creeds of people, yet I have never met a man so intelligent as he was. Where did he get his intelligence from? Not from books, not from the logic or science or philosophy of the day, but he obtained it through the revelation of God, made known to him through the medium of the everlasting gospel (Ibid., 21:63). "T testify that I was acquainted with Joseph Smith for years; I have traveled with him; I have been with him in private and in public; I have associated with him in councils of all kinds; I have listened hundreds of times to his public teachings, and his advice to his friends and _associates of a more private nature. I have been at his house and seen his deportment in his family. I have seen him arraigned before the tribunals of his country, and have HE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH seen him honorably acquitted and delivered from the pernicious breath of slander, and the machinations and falsehoods of wicked and corrupt men. I was with him living, and when he died, when he was murdered in Carthage jail by a ruthless mob... With their faces painted. I have seen him then under these various circumstances, and I testify before God, angels and men that he was a good, honorable, virtuous man, that his doctrines were good, scriptural and wholesome, that his precepts were such as became a man of God, that his private and public character was unimpeachable, that he lived and died a man of God and a gentleman. This is my testimony (Public Discussion, 1850). "Many a time have I listened to the voice of our beloved prophet, while in council, his eyes sparkling with animation, and his soul fired with the inspiration of the living God. It was a theme that caused the bosoms of all who were privileged to listen, to thnill with delight. Intimately connected with this were themes upon which prophets, patriarchs, priests and kings dwelt with pleasure and delight. My spirit glows with sacred fire while I reflect upon these scenes and I say, O Lord, hasten the day! Let Zion be established! Let the mountain of the Lord's house be established in the tops of the mountains! Let deliverance be proclaimed unto Zion! Let redemption echo from mountain to mountain, from hill to hill, from nation to nation! Let the world hear! Let the law go forth from Zion and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem" (MS., 9:97).

KISS of the WIND 1 () Rosa Lee Lloyd CHAPTER 1 the alarm clock broke the lullaby quiet of the early dawn. She did not turn off the alarm. Everyone had better hear it and awaken, she thought, because today was not only Lei Day, a red-letter day in the Hawaiian Islands, but it was a special day for the Harrington family. Emma Lu, their twenty-one-yearold daughter, was coming home [on was fully awake before 492 from San Francisco, where she had been graduated as a nurse. 'They were all going to Honolulu to meet her. Lei Day would make everything even more enchanting, Luana thought, as she swung her feet to the floor and ran to the window. Luana did not look forty-three years old; she was slender, strong, and vital as though charged with the liquid sunshine of the Isle of Maui which had been her home for the last twenty-two years. She loved this pineapple plantation where she lived with her husband, Ben Harrington, their five children, and Ben's elderly mother whom they lovingly called 'Tutuwahine-Tutu (grandmother). Now, as she stood at her bedroom window, her eyes caressed the shimmering blue-green water of the lagoon that swished the shore below their large white frame house. This was her very own glimpse of paradise. She had painted many pictures of this lagoon, but not until this spring had she finished one that she considered good enough to send to the Andrus McDougal Contest for Hawaiian Art. Now it was stored in Tutu's closet, ready for mailing as soon as the contest opened next week. But this was her secret. No one else knew of it except I'utu, who kept her secret as if it were her own. Luana was not a pretty woman, her nose was prominent, her cheekbones too high, her mouth too wide, and her dark eyes fiercely determined. But her skin was velvet smooth, even though bronzed by Hawaiian sun. No woman on the island did more for the sick, the tired, and the heartbroken than Luana Harrington. She was a member of the branch choir, a visiting teacher in her own neighborhood, and she taught a class to junior art students in the Civic Center. Luana's life was a symbol of completeness: husband, children, love, home, Church, and civic activities. What more could any woman in her whole lifetime ask for? Yet dreams and yearning were in her eyes if you looked deeply. But KISS OF THE WIND she was practical as well as artistic, and dreams to her were a springboard to action. She had worked unceasingly to make her dream come true. Now it was ready for the contest when the time came. Quickly she turned from the window and reached in the closet for a muumuu. "Hi, sleepyhead!" she called to her husband, who had not heard the alarm clock. Ben could _ sleep through the loudest clatter. He had learned to do that in the war, he told her. UANA sat on the side of the bed and ruffled her fingers through his dark hair, still thick at the sides, but thinning on top. He was big and homely and terribly exacting at times, but she loved him devotedly. He was worthy of her love and trust. Ben, whose parents had come to Hawai from the Mainland, had been born in this house on the Island of Maui. Luana had met him in San Francisco at a pineapple company convention in 1940. Love had come quickly to them, and love was still with them, deep and warm, after twenty-two years of married life. She loved every moment. Of their tender companionship, their joy in their children, their years of hard work together. Rearing five children on a pineapple plantation, with all the financial hazards that were involved, had not been easy. Ben had enlisted with the Marines after the Pearl Harbor attack, but with Tutu's wisdom and experience and Luana's brave young strength, they had been able to continue to work the plantation. Emma Lu had been born while 


 Ben was on Guadalcanal. He had not seen her until she was two years old. Now there were five children, Luana thought proudly: Emma Lu, then Philip, eighteen, and ready for college; chubby, good-natured sixteen-year-old Pixie; and their rollicking, red-headed twin boys, Benjy and Bowman, nicknamed Bo. 'Thev would be thirteen next Monday. Emma Lu was first to establish her career as a nurse. They wanted Philip to be a doctor after he fulfilled a mission. They planned that all their sons would go on missions. They had a family bank for this purpose. They called it their "love bank," because it was love for their Church, love for each other, and love for everyone in the world that prompted them to contribute to it. Luana and her family knew the meaning of hard work. From dawn until twilight, and even beyond into the dark, torch-lit might during the harvest time, they labored on the plantation. HE time Luana had given to painting had been moments when others were asleep. She went down to the lagoon alone in the moon-drenched night, or in the pink-blue dawn, when the world around her was so enchantingly beautiful that her heart swelled and sang with joy. Rembrandt, Tutu had often told her, must have dreamed of Hawaiian blue, or he could not have painted such glorious color. Nothing in all the art work she had ever seen could compare with the natural blue of Hawaiian skies and water. Luana felt that she must paint it — she must give it to the world, to all 494 those who were not fortunate enough to visit Hawaii. "Ben — it's time to get up," she said. "This is a big day for us, remember?" He turned over sleepily, stretching his long arms. "A big day," he repeated, a smile parting his lips. "Every day is a big day for us, sweetheart. I wouldn't miss one of them for a million dollars, spot cash." "Speaking of spot cash," Luana said, "we must stop at the bank. The payroll is due next wee Ben sighed. "TI know. There is always the payroll whether the crop is good or not." "But it looks so good this season, darling. I was noticing yesterday how well the cuttings have grown. It must be the extra care Mike Togo has given them." "You mean the extra love," Ben said. "I've never seen a young fellow who loves growing things like Mike Togo. I wish our Philip loved the plantation that way. But his heart is flying up there in the sky with airplanes and _ Larry Brown." Luana nodded. "I know, dear. But he's still a boy. He's entitled to daydream," she defended. "He's eighteen," Ben said, "ready for college in the fall. I would like him to be a doctor. We need more doctors on the islands, Lu. But he won't make up his mind." Luana drew a deep breath. " Maybe he has made up his mind," she said. "He wants to be a pilot. I think he's afraid to tell you." Ben sat upright. His eyes were hurt. "Afraid to tell me!" he repeated. 'What have I ever done to make him afraid to tell me?" Luana touched his cheek. "Darling," she said, gently, "I know how kind you are, how tender and considerate. And the children do, too, really. But sometimes — well — you still act like a Marine sergeant." Ben shook his head. "TI want the best for them," he said. "Maybe I am demanding, but it's because I love them and want them to get some place in life. You have to plan and then work to make your plan come true. I won't let my family waste time. I want them to have a goal." Luana laughed as she put her arms around him, pressing her velvet cheek to his. "Look, Sergeant," she coaxed. She always called him = sergeant when she wanted him to be more lenient. "Let them be children for today. We only go to Honolulu once a year." HE arose from the bed and hurried to the kitchen, a long sunny room with wide windows opening into the lanai. 'Tutu was seated at a little rock work table heaped with pinkish red Roselani flowers. She was busy with a long needle and heavy thread making an especially elaborate lei. "This must be ready to greet my Emma Lu," she said, smiling at Luana who bent to kiss her faded cheek. 'Tutu was frail and old in the morning light, but her eyes were glowing. She had been an English _ teacher out from the States in a Maui high school, before she married Ben's father. She always spoke slowly and precisely. Her voice had KISS OF THE WIND a lullaby softness that everyone loved. "Soon these Roselani flowers, the flower of our island, will be destroyed if we do not get rid of the hostile beetles. Look at the petals I have thrown away, Luana. They were ruined by beetles!" "Bless you, Tutu," Luana said tenderly as she hurriedly set the table. "You always remember what each child loves best. 'The Roselani is Emma Lu's favorite lei. But there will be hundreds of leis of every kind on the streets today. Flowers of every island will be shown and worn. The Lehua from the big island of Hawaii, the Llima from Oahu, and the purple berry called Mokihana from Kauai, and Maui's own flower, the Roselani." Tutu's eyes crinkled at the corners as she looked at Luana. "Don't forget the most common of all, the ginger flower lei. I have made thousands of them. None has a sweeter fragrance. But their color is not as exciting as the red and pink Roselani." "The ginger is generally white, isn't it?" Luana questioned. "T like to call it Sweet Snow," Tutu answered. "That describes it, although some call it Hedychiums. Today, in Honolulu, we will see orchid leis and carnations and the yellow and white Plumeria. Umm! I can almost smell them now. I am so happy to be able to go with you today. The Lord is good to me." She reached for Luana's hand and pulled her gently to her side. "I'oday, I must tell you how grateful I am for you. You have been a perfect daughter to me and a perfect 


 wife for my son. I am nearing my sunset time, Luana." "Nonsense!" Luana tried to smile as she always did when Tutu spoke of her sunset time. She could not bear to part with her, even though Dr. Hartford had warned them that her heart was very old and very, very tired. "I am no angel, Tutu," she went on gaily. "I have been impatient at times. Stubborn, too. And my temper!" Tutu shook her head, smiling her wise little smile. EN loomed in the doorway, his new aloha shirt open at the throat. Luana looked at him with pride. Ben was one of the tallest men on the island, and even though he seemed stern with the children at times, he was, at heart, the kindest man she had _ ever known. He was even helpful to stranded visitors. She always smiled when she used the word visitors, instead of tourists, but that was customary in Hawaii. Folks thought it sounded more friendly. Soon the kitchen was a beehive of activity. Each child had his appointed chore to do. After the blessing, Ben helped. Luana serve breakfast: guava nectar, scrambled eggs, oatmeal, milk, and bananas. Only Bo, contrary as usual, coaxed for papaya instead of guava nectar. "Why don't you like lilikoi juice, Bo?" Luana demanded. "It is the choicest juice of the island. 'That's why we call it nectar." "Not for me, Mama. I like papaya better," he said decidedly. Luana shook her head. Bo was 496 like that in every way. He had a mind of his own. Benjy had always had to give in to him, she thought, looking fondly at her redhaired twin boys. Her babies were growing up. She and Ben had such great plans for them all. It would take extra money to do all they planned. 'That was one reason she was so eager about the art contest. The prize was ten thousand dollars. "Look, Mama," Bo was. Saying over a mouthful of toast, "Benjy wants us to show you our surprise for Emma Lu." Surprises were a tradition in the Harrington family. Any event was an excuse for a surprise. But Luana wasn't prepared for Benjy's and Bo's surprise. "Oh, no!" she gasped, staring at the monkey in Benjy's arms. "Where did you get that?" "From Hiro Kurata. You remember Hiro, Mama. He's our Japanese friend who lives over near the sugar mill. You let Bo and me go there for sukiyaki dinner." Luana nodded. "Yes, I do re member. I like Hiro. We must invite him over when we have our Utah pork chops and milk gravy dinner. Or maybe he'd like our Alabama hot cakes, with real maple syrup from New England." "Let's settle for San Francisco chop suey," Phil laughed. "You make that real swell, Mom, even though the Chinese never heard of the way they make it on the Mainland." "Well now," Luana laughed. "We'll think of one of our Mainland dinners and give him a treat. Do his parents know he gave the monkey to you for Emma Lu? "Oh, yes!" Benjy said. "Their uncle sent it from Tahiti. They said we were welcome." "Tl bet they did," Phil said, grimly. "Emma Lu will love to own a monkey," Ben said, his mouth quirking. "Just what she's always wanted," Pixie murmured, sipping her juice. Luana noticed that Pixie was trying hard not to eat fattening foods, but it was a constant battle with a healthy appetite. She had courage and determination and weighed herself every day. She's really cute anyway, Luana thought tenderly, even if she is chubby. Her little upsy nose makes her look like a pixie. It was a blessing that she didn't seem to mind that she was not as pretty as the other girls at school. Hit took an extra banana and ate it hurriedly. "Let's get going," he said. "We want to get there to watch the ship pass Diamond Head. Boy, do I have a surprise for my big sister!" "Tell us!" Bo demanded. "We told you." Phil put his hand up. "Don't ask me," he said. "This is_personal." "She'll have a surprise for us, I'll bet," Benjy said in his honest way. "I wonder what she'll have for us?" Luana shook her head, reprovingly. "Benjy, you should think how you can please her, not about what she will bring for you." Benjy's. Wistful face was puzzled. "IT know I should, Mama. I try to think of doing things for other peoKISS OF THE WIND ple all the time, but sometimes — I just think of me!" Bo's lips turned down, scornfully. "What a dope!" he said. "Always has to tell on himself. Never can just think anything. Always says it right out loud. Like in school yesterday when the teacher asked who drew that crazy mean picture of Drucie Hayward on the blackboard, Benjy has to say he didn't draw it, but it did look like Drucie's goon face." "For goodness sake!" Luana said. "That was thoughtless of you, Benjy. Try to be more careful next tame." She looked sharply at Bo. "Who did draw that picture?" she questioned, remembering that Bo had quite a talent for drawing pictures that resembled people he knew. Bo's face pinked up over his freckles. He stuffed a banana in his mouth. Everyone was looking at him. Ben leaned back, folding his arms across his chest which meant he would take over the situation. "Bowman," he said, in a deadly calm voice, "answer your mother. She asked if you knew who drew the mean picture of Drucie Hayward?" Bo swallowed hard. His eyes were fiercely stubborn. "Why do I have to tell?" he demanded. "Just because Benjy tells everything, do I have to tell all my business? Miss Carson doesn't know who drew it — she couldn't find out. I wouldn't answer when she kept asking. I let her stand there and wonder if it was Charlie Lyman because he can draw so well. I don't like Charlie!" There was a bre

athless silence. 


 Luana bit her lip. This was not merely a childish prank. 'This was a question of honor. How could her son let another boy take the blame for what he had done! And he acted as though he had been very clever. This must be corrected at once. But why did it have to happen today? She asked herself brokenly. Age looked at Ben as he stood up. His jaw was a firm hard line. "Let's go to your room, Bowman," he said. "We must talk this over." "We will wait for you," Luana said as they left the room. She was grateful that Ben thought each child should be allowed to keep his dignity by being scolded alone. He did not belittle any of the children before the others. She had never interfered with his discipline because he was always fair and reasonable, but unyielding in his decision. "Mama..." Benjy called to her. "Oh, Mama." His wide blue eyes were full of tears. "Finish your breakfast," she said, softly, her throat pinching in. She knew that each of them was sick with dread that Bo would be left behind on this day of days. (To be continued) To a Little Girl 498 Dorothy J. Roberts Once I thought a dark-eyed child The dearest in the world, But now I have an added boon Around that small child curled: For I see more than the camera, Which catches your tilted eye, Dimples at mouth corners where A smile is passing by. I cannot see you as you were — That princess in your face, The dainty childhood fingers, for A girl stands in their place — A little girl with brand new teeth, A shining golden braid — The reaching outward of a grace, A lady being made.
