[Vol50 | July 1963 | Page 522 | General Feature | Let-Downs and Hand-Me-Downs • Janet | W. Breeze]
Downs and Hand-Me-Downs Janet W. Breeze [a ORE sending children's clothes to the cleaners at the end of a season, remove hems at sleeves and skirts or coat bottoms. Store them clean with hems hanging until you need the clothing again. It will then be a simple job to adjust for growth and press your family's "'seasonready" items. Also, don't overlook the economy in selecting a little girl's coat with turn-back cuffs. A too-short coat can be tolerated when the sleeves can be turned down. To lengthen a little girl's slip, open the shoulder seam and insert an additional strap length. 'This will drop the whole slip. Replace outgrown straps with an inexpensive pair of suspenders, and you can extend the life of many of your little boy's trousers. Since children's clothing sizes generally run according to age, store outgrown clothing in cartons marked with a large numeral for each (% - 1 - 2 - 3 - 4, and on up). This makes it easy to "hand it down" without missing a few items here or there. When a child becomes disgruntled at having to wear '"'hand-me-downs" within the immediate family, there are several ways in which to make second-hand articles seem more personal and '"'new"': Besides occasionally buying the second child "new" clothing, you can (1) dye white or pastel clothing; (2) add a flower, pin, embroidery, new collar, pocket, or suspenders; (3) hide let-down seams in little girls' skirts and dresses with small tucks, braid, or rickrack. When an older child must give up an outgrown treasure, such as a hat, muff, or even toys, it sometimes eases the blow if he is "guided" into wrapping the item regally as a very special Christmas or birthday gift for a younger child, whether in or out of the family. While we were growing up, there was one item in our house which held more fascination for us than anything else. It was (at that time) an enormous wardrobe traveling case, tucked securely away under a bed for entertaining us on those long, late-summer afternoons when we had already done everything else. On days such as this we were allowed to open the wardrobe case and peek inside at all the 'old clothes' which had mysteriously accumulated. One by one, we would carefully drape the moth-scented treasures all over the room. And then, pencil and paper in hand, we would design our new school wardrobe for fall. You see, we never thought of wearing "made-overs" as such. Most of the things we wore to school were the products of a wonderful creative experience. Even when Mother made the final decision that black crepe was not a fit school dress for an eight-year-old, the disappomtment was easy to bear. All else became swallowed up in the button-snipping, seam-ripping business of preparing our creations for the seamstress. And how proud we were of oui reputations as junior dress designers! 521 Threshing Adrian Hansen Exr to Christmas and the Fourth of July, the most fun of the entire year was at threshing time. The huge grain stacks stood like vellow igloos ready to be consumed by the machine. The wagons, loaded with poles, iron rods, chains, and all the equipment, would come first. Finally, the big, red, box-like threshing machine, drawn by two teams of horses, would be driven in between the stacks and staked into position. The straw carrier at the end of the machine reached way out behind like a flat tail, with its endless chain of slats ready to carry the straw into the stack. At the end, were the rows of teeth to grasp the grain and force it into the machine. Now came the exciting part. The heavy iron driving rod was put into position, reaching from the thresher and the separator, to the horse-power platform. 'This was a floor over a huge cogwheel lying flat on the hub. From this platform several poles extended, usually five poles. To each of these poles was hitched a team of horses, and they traveled round and round in a circle pulling the large wheel which connected with a smaller cogwheel on the end of the big driving rod. As this rotated, it propelled the mechanism of the separator. Of course, we never paid much attention to all this detail. 'The thing to really see and hear was the shout of the driver getting all the 522 horses to start at once. Then there was the low growl of the machine as it began to operate, getting louder and higher in pitch as it picked up speed. Soon the noise was so deafening everyone had to shout to be heard. The dust rose in stifling clouds, especially back of the straw carrier. 'The man who worked there wore goggles over his eyes and his big red bandanna handkerchief was tied over his mouth and nose. All the workers wore bandannas tied around their necks to keep out the chaff. By now the operation had settled into a rhythm of movement. The horses stepped the same gait around and around the circle, the driver turning and lightly cracking his whip. The men on. The stack dropped the bundles in turns onto the feeder platform. Two men stood there, the first with a sharp knife with which he cut the twine from each bundle before pushing it to the next man, who fed it evenly, heads first, into the machine. The grain poured from the side of the machine into the half-bushel measures which were emptied into sacks, and the grain was carried to the granary. Each man carried three measures each trip. It took at least three men to carry the grain from the thresher to the granary, and they ran on the way back with the empty sacks. 'They often used the sacks to give a playful slap at the man with a load on his back as they met; or, to our great glee, they might include one of us in this play, making us feel very much a part of things. The man in the straw stood hip deep in the loose stuff, forking it back away from the carrier. At times he would be almost buried. There was a chaff carrier, too. A man with a huge wooden fork with wide tines moved the chaff as it sifted between the slats of the straw carrier. He kept a red bandanna tied over his nose and mouth to keep out the smothering dust, but even then it must have been a very miserable job. To us children he had a special attraction because he was really in this big event right up to his ears. Before long his eyebrows and _ hair not covered by his hat, would be thick with chaff. What a wonder-. Ful show he put on when the machine stopped and he used his floppy old felt hat to beat the chaff from his shoulders and back, and grinned at us from his mask-like face.