[Vol50 | July 1963 | Page 525 | General Feature | Aunt Martha's Wiggly Cake • Linnie | F. Robinson]
Aunt Marthas Wiggly Cake Linnie F. Robinson ' ¢. Butter or other shortening 1 tsp. Vanilla 1 C. Sugar. "4 tsp. Lemon flavoring 2 eggs (room temperature) 1% c¢. Flour % tsp. Salt if shortening is not salted 2 tsp. Baking powder '% c. Half and half, milk and cream Cream butter and sugar together until light and fluffy, add eggs, one at a time, and beat until light and fluffy. Add flour, sifted with baking powder, alternately with the half and half milk, ending with flour. Pour in vanilla and lemon flavoring and put in two cake tins for layered cake. Bake at 350° for twenty to twenty-five minutes. Cool ten minutes and turn out on rack. When cool, split one layer and put cooked cream filling in center, replace other half, and ice top of cake. Do the same with the next layer making a two-layered cake. Ice with pink icing. Serve as soon as possible. This is a cake that is lovely because of its tender, moist, and delicious appeal. It will not keep well. Wiggly Cake Filling 1 c. Milk 1 egg, beaten 3 tbsp. Corn starch "2 ¢. Cream "4 c. Milk 1 tsp. Vanilla "2 ¢. Sugar "4 tsp. Lemon pinch of salt Scald 1 c. Milk in double boiler, add sugar, salt, and corn starch dissolved in % c. Milk. Cook two minutes, add the beaten egg, mixed with the cream, and cook three to five minutes more. Add flavoring and cool. Icing for the Wiggly Cake "2 square butter, softencd % tsp. Vanilla 1 drop red cake coloring cream for mixing 7, \b. Powdered sugar Mix all ingredients except cream. 'Then add enough cream to bring icing to desired consistency.

524 the whole tamily Recipes From Sacramento Stake Submitted by Adelle Gorsh Applesauce Cake Mary Gleie Sift together: Add: 4 c. Flour 2 c. Chopped walnuts 2 tbsp. Cornstarch 2 ¢. Raisins (seedless or ground) 4 tbsp. Ground chocolate 3 to 4 c. Applesauce 4 tsp. Soda 1 ¢. Cooking oil 2 C. Sugar Y% tsp. Each cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice, cloves, and salt Mix lightly, and bake in moderate oven 350° for about one hour and ten minutes. Banana Nut Bread Arvilla Crandall 1 C. Sugar 1 tsp. Soda 2 c. Flour 1 tsp. Vanilla 2 eggs I 1 tsp. Salt 1 c. Mashed bananas: "2 ¢. Chopped nuts 4 tbsp. Sour milk % c. Shortening Mix all together and bake in a greased loaf pan. Bake one hour at 350°. Walnut Squares Rosella Nolan Beat 1 egg until creamy and stir in 1 cup brown sugar. Sift together: Add: 5 tbsp. Flour ic. Chopped walnuts ¥, tsp. Salt % tsp. Soda Combine the two mixtures and bake 15 or 20 minutes at 375°. Cut in squares after mixture has begun to set. 525 Turkey Pie Lena Silver Brown 4 tbsp. Flour in 4 tbsp. Butter. Add 2% cups turkey stock and cook until thick and smooth. Season with salt, pepper, onion salt, and celery salt. Add 1 cup each of cooked peas, carrots, and turkey pieces. To make stock, cook turkey bones for one hour with celery, onion, parsley, salt, and pepper in amounts to suit taste. Strain after cooking. Biscuits: 2% c. Flour 24 c. Shortening 2% tsp. Baking powder 1% tsp. Paprika 1 tsp. Salt 24 tsp. Parsley flakes 1 beaten egg added to % c. Milk Roll mixture about 1% inches thick and cut into biscuits. Pour turkey mixture boiling hot into casserole, and place biscuits on top. Bake at 350° for about 20 minutes. Serves 6. Pork-Chop Casserole Shirley Extrand 4 lean pork chops 1 can bouillon 1 c. Uncooked rice 1 can water 1 green pepper Brown and season pork chops to taste. Place uncooked rice in 1% quart covered casserole and slice green pepper over top. Add browned pork chops, bouillon, and water. Bake at 350° until rice is done and pork chops tender, about one hour. Serves 4. Homemade Doughnuts Elva Coats 2 pkgs. Yeast (dry or compressed) 1 Cc. Sugar 3 c. Scalded milk, cooled 3 eggs beaten lightly 2 tsp. Salt ~~. Cooking oil. Sifted flour to make a soft dough, about 8 c. 526 Mix together all ingredients except flour. Add enough flour to make dough easy to handle. Let rise until double in bulk. Roll to % inch and cut. Let rise about 30 minutes and cook in deep fat until browned. Roll in granulated sugar or frost the doughnuts, as desired. Makes 4 or 5 dozen. Salmon Casserole Ethel Leishman 2 1-lb cans red salmon % tsp. Pepper 2 cans drained string beans % c. Pickle relish (save 1 cup liquid) 2 c. Milk 8 tbsp. Butter 2 c. Soft buttered bread crumbs 6 tbsp. Flour Remove bones and skin from salmon. Alternate salmon and string beans in greased 2-qt. Casserole. Melt 6 tbsp. Butter and add flour, salt, and. Pepper. Stir bean liquid and milk until blended and add to flour mixture. Stir until smooth and pour over the bean and salmon mixture and top with bread crumbs to which the remaining 2 tbsp. Butter have been added. Bake in a moderately hot oven (400°) for thirty minutes, or until golden brown on top. Serves 6 to 8. Tamale Pie Marie Gibby Pie filling 1 large onion 1 lb. Ground beef 1 clove garlic 1 pt. Tomatoes 1 tbsp. Cooking oil "' ¢. Ripe olives 1 tbsp. Butter salt, pepper, and chili pepper to taste Corn meal mush: 1% c. Corm meal, 1 tsp. Salt, and 4 c. Boiling water. Cook in double boiler until thickened. Fry onion and garlic in oil and butter until light brown, then add beef and cook until all redness is gone. Add remaining ingredients and simmer 10 minutes. Place in baking dish lined with % of the corn meal mush. Spread the other half of mush to cover filling. Bake about 40 minutes in oven at 350°. 527 Evelyn Davis Makes Lovely Floral Arrangements Evelyn Davis, Salt Lake City, Utah, has made flowers her hobby. Through the years her flowers have delighted the neighborhood and her floral arrangements have graced the chapel of her ward, and on special holidays she has made appropriate bouquets.