[Column 2]
As many as could be seated in the large
hall below repaired thither and were seated,
about one hundred in all, President B. W.
Smith and President Marinda Bateman at
the head of the table where about fifty were
seated, all women, with two or three ex-
ceptions. The tables were profusely dec-
orated with flowers, mostly roses, the frag-
rance most delightful to lovers of beauty.
Every delicacy of the season adorned the
festive board. Elder Willard Snow pro-
nounced the blessing upon the sumptuous
repast. The tables were refilled again and
again until all assembled from all over Jor-
dan Stake had partaken of the bounteous
supply that had been provided by these
good sisters, who abound in works of love
and kindness.
President Bateman called the assembly
together and the program was continued,
first by singing “Let earth and heaven
agree.” Remarks upon Relief Society
work and testimony concerning Joseph the
Prophet, Sister E. B. Wells, after which
President B. W. Smith added other remarks
concerning the Prophet Joseph. Song, “I
am thinking of my mother," Sister Garridet.
Recitation, “Jamie,” Miss Mabel Butler.
Remarks on the great work of the sisters in
the Relief Society by Counselor Annie Tay-
lor Hyde, she also read the missionary let-
ter prepared by President B. W. Smith for
the sisters who visit the Relief Society con-
ferences in the several Stakes of Zion. Song
by the Young Ladies from Butler. Mrs.
Sarah Wilson Harrison, of Sandy, recited
“Joseph Smith, the Prophet,” a poem pub-
lished long ago in the Millennial Star, very
good and suitable to entertainments of this
kind. Remarks, Elder Samuel Bateman,
very appropriate and interesting. Duet,
Young Ladies of Sandy. Remarks on
practical matters and suggestion pertaining
to Relief Society labors of timely interest,
by Sister Clarissa S. Williams, daughter of
President George A. Smith. Elder James
Jenson, select readings from Caudle Lec-
tures.
Altogether, the reunion was from the be-
ginning to the close replete with good
things, and should awaken a wider and
more definite interest in the work of this
grand benevolent organization of the women
of the Church. Already great things have
been done by the few, now is the time for
greater things by the many.


