MRS. JENNINGS’ TEA PARTY.

	Mrs. Wm. Jennings, whose capabilities
as a hostess are known far and wide, gave
one of her unique afternoon “Teas” at
her new residence on the corner of Second
and B. Streets, in this city, on Friday, June
26, at 4 o’clock p. m. Fifty ladies were
invited and nearly all responded. The
rooms were beautifully decorated with
flowers, mostly roses and carnations, and
the tables with snowy linen, rare china,
silver and cut glass were elegant in appear-
ance, and the delicate flowers, charmingly
arranged, added to the delicious viands.
	Mrs. Jennings is an admirable entertainer


and has wonderful tact in making her
guests happy, and on this occasion each one
was presented with a pretty fan, a most
suitable gift for a summer day.
	At the tables small, and large, the ladies
were grouped together pleasantly, and
when all were seated a blessing was asked
upon the food, the home and the hostess by
one of the distinguished sisters, President
Bathsheba W. Smith. Sisters M. Isabella
Horne, Julina L. Smith, Sarah Jenne Can-
non, Lydia Ann Wells, Amelia F. Young,
Ellen Barton, Annie Taylor Hyde, Susan
E. Smith, Charlotte F. Richards, Eliza T.
Cannon, Susan P. Brooks, Sarah R. Smith,
Martha G. Wells, Maria Y. Dougall, Eliza-
beth J. Stevenson, Edna L. Smith, Lydia
D. Alder, Maria W. Wilcox, Agnes Swartz,
Ella W. Hyde, Martha T. Cannon,
Hannah C. Wells, Clarissa S. Williams,
Alice K. Smith, Sarah A. J. Cannon, Min-
nie J. Snow., Susan H. Wells, Mary T.
Smith, Marian Beatie, Ann E. Groesbeck,
Sophia Sharp, Phebe Y. Beatie, Myra Y.
Rossiter, Annie Dinwoodey, Rachel R.
Grant, Emma A. Empey, Sarah Din-
woodey, Lizzie Sharp, Eunice Foster,
Rachel Patrick and others, including the
writer. The sisters whose names appear are
nearly all workers in the Salt Lake Temple.
The music, both vocal and instrumental,
was very fine and greatly appreciated.
	Mrs. Jennings parties are always very
enjoyable and this one was no exception to
the general rule. A spirit of harmonious
sociability pervaded the gathering. As we
journey along through life we find that to
meet our friends even casually is a kind of
satisfaction, that we come to appreciate
greatly in this busy work-a-day world.


