ARAMINTA E. EGBERT.

	We remember the rosy-cheeked, happy
girl in the good old childhood days, when
she used to climb trees, hunt hens and birds 
eggs and romp and play, in school one of
the gayest of the gay, and a sad tease to
her teachers Her lot, too, was cast on
the bonnie banks of the Jordan. Time
changes all things, and in time a suitor
came, and she thought "It is not good for
man to live alone," so she gave her heart
and hand to our worthy Bishop. We don't
think she has taken any more bird's eggs,
but we know she has taken care of Egberts
ever since.
	We appreciate her worth and feel glad
she was chosen Relief Society aid. May
she still live a life of usefulness and be as
she has always been, a true friend to the
poor and needy, and be a comfort in time of
sorrow and trouble. And may all her little
Egberts find a warm nest in her heart, and
we will see that she takes good care of our 
Bishop. 
ELIZABETH DAY.
	Away back in merrie England, once up-
on a time, a little girl came to gladden her 
parent's hearts.
	Her parents joined the Church, then there
was the gathering to Zion, and the long,
weary journey with ox teams across the plains.
	She, too, came to Draper. After a time
she began to think that there was one Day
that was better than all the rest, and as the
days passed by, she chose to be the second
Day, and has been ever since. She has led

[Column 3]

a life of usefulness and has filled many
faithful positions and has been loved and 
respected by neighbors and friends. She,
too, is Relief Society aid, and may her life
be spared and as her Days increase may she
always find comfort and joy.
LEAH DAY FITZGERALD.
	Some time back in the early 50's, there
was born, in the beautiful city of Draper,
to a family of our worthy pioneers, a sweet
little girl whom they called Leah. She,
like all the rest of "Utah's best crop," was
free and easy and led a useful and helpful
life and was a joy and comfort to her friends.
	When she became a blushing maiden
there came a tall schoolmaster a wooing,
which soon terminated in a wedding, and as
there was no Rachel in the family, there
were no disappointments, and we never
heard that he worked seven years for his
Leah, and we don't know as the "big
