[Column 1]

born a sweet little Swedish "Flicka." She
like all of her people was raised to work
and be industrious and self-sustaining.
	She joined the Church in an early day,
came to Utah a young and blushing maiden
and captivated the heart of one of our best
citizens. They were married and settled
here in this lovely city in which we have
met today. For twenty years she took ac-
count of all the nickels and dimes and each
bar of soap and yard of calico received by
the Relief Society of Sandy, for she held the
exalted office of secretary. She was chosen
counselor to Sister Bateman in the Stake,
January 21, 1900, which office we know
she will fill with honor. We know she has
always been found, tried and true and we
hope to see her good-natured face smiling
among us as the years and days go by and
we would just give her a word of advice,
if she don't be a pretty good girl she had
better, for we know there is one of the
High Council always has his eye on her.
AGNES CUTLER.
	Away back in Scotland there was born
one day a dear little Scotch lassie. When
quite small her parents joined the Church
and like many others gathered to Zion and
settled in Salt Lake City. She, like our
president, learned the fine art of spinning
and coloring, and her joyous laugh rang
out as she spun the skeins of yarn to help
to make the beautiful flannel and linsey
ball and reception dresses that were worn
at that time.
	The lassie, when she was very young,
decided that she would choose an occupa-
tion, and she went into the Cutlery business
and settled on the beautiful banks of the
Jordan. Life to her was not all summer
and the bitter was mixed with the sweet,
but she was always cheerful; her com-
panion was taken and she was alone.
	After awhile she chose another trade, she
became a Cooper. For various reasons this
proved a failure and she went back to the
Cutlery business. Twice she has been
chosen president of the Relief Society and
she has filled the position with honor. She
was chosen counselor in the Stake January
21, 1900, and as the years go by may we
always have our Scotch lassie to cheer and
comfort us, and may the Cutlers and Coop-
ers increase and the Jordan Stake honor
and appreciate her worth, and we know she
can always spin us a good yarn if she hasn't
her spinning wheel.
ELIZABETH GARDNER.
	We will not go back so far now, but only
to a time when a merry little girl came to
gladden the home of one of the pioneer
families of the historic town of dear old
West Jordan. She came, grew, went to
school, played, romped and had a merry
time until she thought it time to settle
down and one of our handsome Utah boys
came along and she chose her trade and she
has been a Gardner ever since; she also
was chosen our Stake secretary on January
21, 1900, and she has written minutes,
called rolls and puzzled her brain since
then; she too has had her joys and sorrows, 
but as a mother and grandmother, old
father time has dealt lightly with her and
we see her today apparently smiling and
happy, and may she still continue to be our
secretary until her hair is gray and her eyes
are dim with years. 
EMILY WHITE.
	We remember a long time ago seeing a

