wish to return, looks after each individual
to see that they are properly cared for and
driven home again. It really is a beautiful
thing and Mrs. Cannon deserves the bless-
ings these dear old ladies shower up-
on her, with their prayers and good
wishes. The dinner prepared for them is
as good and tastefully arranged as if they
were the finest guests in the land, and they
are waited upon by Mrs. Cannon's charm-
ing daughters and young relatives and
friends with the most careful attention to
every want expressed, or anticipated.
	The young ladies play and sing for them
and the old ladies sing and recite and have
a most enjoyable time.
	Perhaps the most distinguished guest
present on the occasion this year, Thursday,
June 25, was Mrs. Jane S. Richards who,
although she has reached four score years,
is still young in spirit and mentally and
physically capable of managing the busi-
ness affairs of the Relief Society of the
Weber Stake of Zion, as well as looking
after the moral and spiritual interests of
those over whom she presides. Her voice
and appearance are like those of a young
woman; she spoke a few words of greeting
and appreciation to the company on the
day of this unique gathering.
	Sister Ann E. Browning, a veteran in
the Church and a strong type of the En-
glish character, aged seventy-three, gave
two recitations entitled "Maria in Heaven"
and "A Woman's Question."
	Another sister, whose name I do not now
recall, gave "His Mother's Sermon," from
"The Bonnie Brier Bush."
	Sister Isabella Wilson recited a poem,
"Joseph Smith, the Prophet."
	Brief speeches were made, significant of
the honor shown to the aged and the times
in which we live, by Sister Cannon, mother
of the Senator, and Sister E. B. Wells, of
Salt Lake City. Hon. Frank J. Cannon
made an eloquent address, very complimen-
tary to the aunties and grandmothers, who
were much gratified to be thus remembered
and honored.
	Indeed it was a happy day for all and
one never to be forgotten by those who
participated in its pleasures Ice cream,
cake and other delicacies were served to all
before parting, and then came the good
byes, which bring the thought, "When
shall we all meet again?"
	The ladies present whose names we re-
call, were Sister Mary Black, 87 years, who
heads the list; Sisters Jane S. Richards,
and Elizabeth P. Davis, of Salt Lake City;
Elizabeth Kingsford, Ruth M. Larson,
Emma Wright, Eliza Barlow, Mary Butler,
Charlotte Leavitt, Olive Ann Farr, Rachel
Porter, Ann E. Browning, Hannah Batley,
Ann Martin, Harriet Stringam, Isabella
Neilson, Sarah West, Catharine Horrocks,
Emma Melvin, Henrietta Lamont, Eliza-
beth Greenwall, Mary Ann Odell, Phebe
Jane Bingham, Harriet C. Brown, Mary
Hiller, Sarah Jane Packard; these are
among the older sisters; younger sisters,
although most of them are grandma's, were
Martha H. Brown, Charlotte E. Driver,

[Column 3]
Maria S. Stevens, Sarah J. Cannon, Har-
riet E. Woodmansee, Eliza T. Cannon,
Emily L. Shurtliff, Belle Thompson, and
Miss Rose Canfield and the young ladies
who sung for the party and waited upon
them. The writer was also present and de-
sires to say she enjoyed the society of these
dear sisters at Mrs Cannon's party, which
is not only a beautiful thought, but delight-
ful in its practical development.
