MARINDA BATEMAN.

	We will now let our minds travel back to
a time almost fifty years ago when there
were no people or houses south of Salt
Lake City, but we travel along and come
to Gardner's mill, down near the banks of
the notable Jordan river, and when we see
a mill we naturally know there is a miller
and by inquiry we find there is a miller
here and that he has a rosy-cheeked daugh-
ter. She is not like the girls of the present
with their fancy embroidery and fine
laces, but is taught to card and spin, to
cook, wash and iron and everything that
will help to clothe and feed the numerous
family of the miller, but she looks just as
winning to a tall, dark-complexioned youth
who wears jeans pants and linsey over-shirt
and his hair oiled sleek, roached in front
and turned under at the end--who comes
wooing the miller's daughter and it ends in
a marriage. She becomes a farmer's bride
and they start in life together while young,
with empty hands but willing hearts.
	Years glide by, children come to them,
with plenty of work. She is chosen president
of the Relief Society, her husband is called to
the Muddy on a mission, she is released to 
accompany him. The mission falls through,
they are released, she does not go but still
goes along in her quiet way. Trials come,
sometimes smiles, sometimes tears, years
pass and with them come changes. She is
again chosen president of a Relief Society
which she fills with honor until January 21,
1900, she is chosen Stake president and the
present shows us the tall farmer and the
miller's daughter, not so young, but just as
smiling and happy, still true to each other
and their God, and we would venture to
wager, if the Relief Society board had not
forbidden us gambling or raffling or any-
thing of the kind, now that she is fifty-five 
years of age, if you would bring her the old-
fashioned spinning wheel she could spin a
broach or reel her knots and make a skein
of yarn and color her madder, logwood and
blue-dye in the same old way and be proud
of it, too. And may her numerous family
rise up and call her blessed and be proud to
own the miller's daughter for their mother.
May she live long to counsel her sisters and 
help to take care of the sick and the afflicted.
	We forgot to add that she is known all
over the Stake, for the children say she 
brings awful nice things to mama in her
little satchel.
	HILDA LARSEN.
	Years ago in dear old Sweden there was


