RELIEF SOCIETY NURSES' CLASS. 
The graduating exercises of the Relief
Society Nurses’ Class of seventy-five stu-
dents who have been receiving instructions
this year, were held in Barrett Hall of the
L. D. S. University, June 24, 1903, Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts, the instructor, and
Mrs. Emma A. Empey, superintendent, in
charge. Certificates were handed to each
graduate and addresses were made by Dr.
Roberts, Mrs. Empey, President B. W.
Smith and President M. I. Horne and
several other ladies and gentlemen. It was
a most interesting occasion and very grati-
fying to the superintendent, the instructor
and to Mrs. Beatie, the secretary, who,
with the other two ladies, has been unre-
mitting in her exertions to bring about the
desired success.
In the evening a reception was given
the nurses at the residence of Bishop and
Mrs. Beatie to which the friends and
patrons of the nurses' class were invited.
Delicious refreshments were served by
the nurses, assisted by other young girls.
There was also music, and recitations by
Miss Babcock, and some other features to
give variety and pleasure to those assem-
bled in honor of the nurses, who with their
pretty white caps and aprons, flitting from
room to room, gave the affair a dainty
and picturesque appearance.
Of the guests of honor there, were the
General Relief Society President, Bath-
sheba W. Smith, President M. Isabella
Horne, of the Salt Lake Stake, Emmeline
B. Wells, editor WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Sis-
ters Emma S. Woodruff, Lucy W. Kim-
ball, Ida Smoot Dusenberry, Edna L.
Smith, Maria V. Dougall, Catharine Layne,
Eliza K. Woolley, and Bishop N. A. Em-
pey, Elder B. H. Roberts, Elder W. B.
Dougall and Prof. J. W. Miller.
The evening was delightfully spent in
conversation and congratulations to the
graduates, who go from here to their
homes in the several Stakes of Zion into
the states and territories adjacent to begin
the practical work of nursing the sick and
ministering in this beautiful calling with
tender and loving care to the afflicted ones,
with the skill and gentleness they have
been taught, carrying the influence of this
beautiful mission into the homes of the
people wherever it may be their lot to min-
ister from time to time.
The EXPONENT wishes them God speed
in their labors and may they be a blessing
wherever they go, realizing how grand and
noble is the work to which they have been
called and set apart, and what it may mean
to them in their own development and to
the welfare and well-being of the Saints,
wherever this beautiful spirit may extend.


