Guide Lessons for April LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in April) MOSIAH AND THE ELDER ALM. This lesson includes the matter between page 212 and page 251 of the Book of Mormon. Excepting the disquisition of King Mosiah II on popular government and that of Alma the younger on religion, the lesson is mainly narrative. It gives, first, the escape of Alma the Elder and his people from the Land of Nephi to Zarahemla and his work in the Church there in behalf of the younger generation; second, the change in the political government of the Nephites from a kingdom to a sort of republic, due to the Nephite mission to the Lamanites and the cool temperament of the reigning monarch: third, the period of internal struggle among the Nephites, induced by the ambition of one Amlici, and the subsequent conflict with the Lamanites; and fourth, the conversion of Alma the younger, with the king's sons, and his early efforts to undo his first bad works and to build up both the political and the religious organization which had been placed in his efficient and trustworthy hands. In outline form this material would appear as follows: 1. Alma the Elder on his way to Zarahemla. 1. At Helam: (a) Approximate location with regard to the Lands of Nephi and Zarahemla.; (b) Conditions there. (c) Arrival of Lamanites?results. (d) Departure to Zarahemla.
2. Arrival at Zarahemla. (a) Dual people there. (b) Comparative number of each. (c) Reception of newcomers.
3. New duties of Alma.
4. The Younger Generation:
5. Whom this younger set consists of.
6. Causes and results of their defection.
7. What was done about it: (a) Alma's difficulty in the situation. (b) The king's attitude.
 
(c) Solution.
3. Alteration in the Nephite government:
4. Form of government before this. (a) Trace the rulers up to now. (b) Tell how they acted toward the people. (c) Give the occasion for the change.
5. Nature of the new government. (a) The grades of judges. (b) Their relation to one another. (c) Their relation to the people.
6. Its workings.
7. Strife under the new regime.
8. Nehor. (a) Who he was. (b) His ideas. (c) What was done about him.
9. Amlici. (a) Who he was. (b) His pretentions. (c) Conflict with him.
10. Alma the Younger.
11. His education and early associations.
12. His early character and purposes.
13. His conversion.
14. Subsequent events. (a) Elevation to the priesthood and chief judgeship. (b) Characteristics of his ministry. (c) His message to the Nation (pp. 245-51).
OBSERVATIONS.
1. This lesson is filled with big ideas, religious, political, and social. Mention has been made on more than one occasion in the course of these lessons of the necessity of going to original sources for our knowledge of spiritual things. An idea so fundamental cannot be too often called to our attention. Anyway, it occurs over and over again in the Book of Mormon. And one of the outstanding occasions for mention of it once more occurs in the present lesson. A "document" has been placed in the hands of King Mosiah, which is in an unknown tongue. Instead of puzzling over it and beating his brain about its contents, he proceeds to use his prophetic office to decipher it. With the plates was found an instrument called a urim and thummim, and this he employs in the translation of the foreign language. The result is that the tragic story of the Jaredites is unfolded before the Nephites.
Alma the Younger, although he was instructed in religion by
his gifted father and by means of such literature as the Nephites had, yet he does not depend on that source for his information concerning divine matters. "How do you suppose", he asks the people, "that I know of a surety of the things of which I have spoken?" And he answers with great emphasis, "Behold, they are made known unto me by the Holy Spirit of God, and I do know for myself that they are true. Moreover," he adds, "it has been revealed to me that the words that have been spoken by our fathers, are true." Thus these two men were qualified to speak on the things of the spirit, not because they had conversed with prophets or pored over books, but because they had contacted with beings and powers in another world.
Then look at just one of the political ideas that are in this lesson. Mosiah believes that the people should have a say as to who should rule them. Or strictly speaking, he believes they should govern themselves. In other words he accepts the idea which lies at the very basis of our modern American Government, expressed in the phrase the Voice of the People. "It is not common", he says in a very fine sentence, "that the voice of the people desireth anything contrary to that which is right * * * * And if the time comes that the voice of the people doth choose iniquity, then is the time that the judgments of God will come, with great destruction." If any American of modern times has better expressed a belief in democratic government than that, we have not come across it.
And then there is that age-old doctrine, so repugnant to most people in practice and so much vaunted in theory, the doctrine of social equality?a doctrine too on which the Lord has thrown every possible emphasis through all his prophets in all ages of the world. "Thus saith the Lord," says the Elder Alma. "Ye shall not esteem one flesh above another, or one man shall not think himself above another." This was given as a reason against the decide of kingship. To have a king means that one person is lifted above the people. And this in turn means the building of an aristocracy?lifting a group, or class, of persons above the masses. This democratic doctrine the Nephites of this period carried out in practice. For Benjamin and Mosiah "worked with their hands" so as not to become a burden to the people. And even the religious teachers, including the high priest, earned their living by manual labor. Their society however was of the primitive sort, not highly specialized and complex like ours.
2. No doubt these ideas come to the surface at this particular time in Nephite history because of the very high character of the leaders during this period?Mosiah and the two Almas. For all
 
three men were exceptionally endowed with intellect and moral fiber. We have already mentioned the fine moral courage of the Elder Alma, as instanced when he broke with his iniquitous colleagues and the king. His son Alma, it seems, had the same rare quality, as shown when he invited the ridicule (and doubtless received it a-plenty) of his companions and followers at the time of his conversion. To break with the past, whether that past be either wrong or merely conventional, places a heavier tax on our moral stamina than most people imagine, who have not been put to the actual test.
And then, most of all, observe the great clearness of vision, coupled with courage, exhibited by Mosiah when he changed the form of political government. He was king. His eldest son would, in the course of events, be King after him. And what father does not wish his children and his children's children held up in the spotlight? But Mosiah is more anxious for the welfare of his people than he was that the kingship should remain in his family. And so he made it impossible for his sons, any or all of them, ever to change their minds, bring division and probably bloodshed to the Nephite nation. Mosiah was under no illusion as to his children, as most parents are. He knew human nature. He knew that his sons were made of the same clay as other men. And who could tell how long they would retain the Spirit of God?
3. Another very illuminating observation grows out of our contact with such characters as Mosiah, the two Almas, and Ammon (of whom we shall hear presently). We mean the tremendous grip that spiritual things have on the human soul. People who have never had any spiritual experiences often sneer at the knowledge that religious persons claim to have of the unseen forces of the universe, as if the only matters of which the human mind can have any real knowledge are material. The truth is, as President Brigham Young long ago asserted so positively, that there is no knowledge whatever that is at once so sure-footed, so definite and certain and so dependable as the knowledge that comes from a well-defined spiritual experience. In other words, when the Lord reveals anything to you you know it better and more surely than you can know anything in the merely sensuous world. And it is both silly and ignorant for what Professor William James used to call "tough-minded" persons to discredit a spiritual experience on the ground that it was not founded in the senses.
It is doubtless on account of this absolute sureness of knowledge that great conversions like that of Alma and Ammon, in the Book of Mormon, and of Saul of Tarsus, in the New Testament, are so crucial, so shattering to old ideals, so powerful in
directing the life into new channels, so steadying to faith in the divine. For only on this assumption of knowledge?and knowledge too of the most assuring sort?can we account for the conduct of such men as these. Alma endured contumely and persecution, Ammon suffered hardships and privation, and Paul invited martyrdom, by merely following the light which never was on land or sea. And strong-willed, intellectual men like them would not have done so for a will-o-the-wisp.
Coupled with the sureness of spiritual knowledge is the very singular thing that no sooner is a person taken hold of by a spiritual experience than he is restless till the whole world comes under the spell of the same influence. It is characteristic when Galileo discovered the great potential fact that a pound of lead and a pound of feathers reached the ground at the same time when dropped from the tower of Pisa, or when, a few days ago, two young scientists discovered that hydrogen is a compound and not an element, these men did not feel an irrepressible urge to spend the rest of their lives showing people that these were facts and not illusions. But when Alma and Ammon and Paul came to know that Christ opens the way to salvation, they could rest neither night nor day as long as anyone remained ignorant, through fault of theirs, of this redemptive truth. It is indeed a marvelous thing, and a wonder.
Questions
1. Relate the story of how Alma and his converts escaped to Zarahemla.
2. Explain the change that took place in the political government of the Nephites at this period.
3. Tell about Nehor, about Amlici.
4. Relate the conversion of Alma.
5. Why should the "younger generation" be slow in accepting religion?
6. What is the difference between a "democrat" and an "aristocrat"?
7. Can you think of a situation in which your love of honor for a child would conflict with the welfare of your people or community?
8. Why should Alma "rejoice" when he was told that his son had fallen to the ground and been stricken dumb?
References. 1. The text pp. 212-251. 2. The "Dictionary of the Book of Mormon" and the "Story of the Book of Mormon" by George Reynolds. 3. "Message and Characters of the Book of Mormon," by John Henry Evans.
 
LESSON II
Work and Business (Second Week in April)
HONESTY.
1. Honesty is more than a mere policy, it is a principle. It embraces truth, a reverence for right honorable dealing, and it holds sacred the rights of property. "An honest man is the noblest work of God." Honesty should be cultivated throughout life.
2. Teaching Children to be Honest:
3. Begin Early. "Train up a child in the way he shall go: And when he is old, he will not depart from it."
4. "Honesty is acquired, not inherited." a. The child must understand property rights?"mine and thine." b. He should have his own possessions and jurisdiction over them. c. The group attitude and ideals are of great importance. d. Happiness and success are results of honorable living.
5. There is generally a motive underlying a dishonest act, and it is most important to find it. In a child who has a feeling of inferiority, the motive may be a desire to appear more important. Again it may be to gain recognition of his group, to become more popular. An example of this is taking money to buy candy for friends. Sometimes the group may approve of acts of dishonesty. It may be a result of jealousy or a means of getting even. Whatever the motive may be, "The earlier we recognize that these children are not bad or vicious and necessarily doomed to a criminal career, but that they are simply floundering around, trying to find some outlet for their pent up emotions, the more we can do for them." Let them know we trust them, give them understanding, love and confidence.
6. In referring to a non-tithe payer, President Heber J. Grant said, "How can a man sing lullabys to his conscience and compromise himself with the Lord, when he is strictly honest with men.
7. "We believe in being honest" ?13th Article of Faith "Thou shalt not steal." "Thou shalt not bear false witness." Exodus 20:15-16. "Providing for honest things"?2 Cor. 8:21.
8. We owe it to our God, our country, our neighbors and ourselves to be honest. If we observe the Golden Rule in all our dealings, it will be a positive power in character development.
LESSON III
Literature (Third Week in April)
ERNESTINE ROESSLER SCHUMANN-HEINK
Ernestine Roessler, later known as Schumann-Heink, was born of Austrian parentage on June 15, 1861, in Lieben, Prague. Her father's name was Hans Roessler; her mother's Charlotte Goldman. The two were married in Italy; for at that time a part of Italy was under the control of Austria. Hans Roessler was a soldier, rough-hewn and uncultured, as he himself declared. "I must admit it, a real old rough-neck soldier just the same! A good, good man he was?but a rough-neck! God bless him!" Charlotte Goldman was fairly well educated; she could speak French and Latin very well, and was possessed of a beautiful contralto voice. It was probably from her that Ernestine inherited her gift.
That Schumann-Heink's great voice was a gift of nature there can be no doubt, for early in her life it was recognized as being very unusual. Though the Roesslers were very poor, friends who could appreciate what they early heard the child sing volunteered to teach her how to use her voice properly. Ernestine's parents were soon separated, owing to the fact that he could not understand her; and poverty glared at them continually. Later Mrs. Heink, then divorced from her first husband who had deserted her, married Ernst Heink, a secretary in the Government Department at Dresden. Heink, however, soon developed tuberculosis, and finally died.
Later on Schumann-Heink married Paul Schumann, a member of a celebrated operatic family, and a fairly successful actor. Schumann's health was poor. He gradually grew worse and at length died, leaving his wife a widow. Schumann was a Mason; Schumann-Heink a Catholic, but love soon overcame these barriers.
After Schumann's death, the great singer felt much alone with her eight children. It was then she decided to marry, seemingly as a matter of convenience, her third husband, William Rapp, who was her secretary. These two, however, did not remain together so very long.
Schumann-Heink made the United States her home. During the war she had one son, August, in the German army, and her others in the United States forces. She became the greatest contralto singer of her time and is still an active singer. In the summer of 1929 she returned to Bayreuth, the scene of her early triumph, to participate in a great celebration and reunion of musicians. The names of her children are: August, Charlotte, Henry, Hans, Walter, Ferdinand, Marie and George Washington.
 
SCHUMANN-HEINK?THE LAST OF THE TITANS.
By Mary Lawton.
"Madame Schumann-Heink is one of the few active survivors of a wonderful musical period and of a group of famous singers?great singers of distinction, whose training and whose association with an equally important group of musicians and conductors seem to set them apart from the singers before and after them. In telling her story to Mary Lawton, Madame Schumann-Heink includes her memories of many of these celebrated people, as well as the events of her own rich life. Miss Lawton has not only recreated the singer's interviews into an absorbing narrative but has taken great pains to catch the homely idiom in which they were expressed; and, while setting down the incidents in orderly fashion, to convey the full impression of Madame Schumann-Heink's personality.
"The story tells of Schumann-Heink's early privations and struggles, of her first successes, of her experiences in America, of London days, of singing to the soldiers during the War, and of the climax of her fame and her golden jubilee."?Editor's note.
The above quotation gives in a few words the contents of this rather remarkable biography of a great person, but of course it cannot give the charm of the narrative nor can it convey the impression one gets from reading the life of a truly great character. One must read the book to get those impressions. Since this biography appeared in "The Ladies' Home Journal" a few years ago, it is probable that there are a few in every community who have already made the acquaintance of Schumann-Heink. 
Libraries and even homes probably still possess the volume of the Journal in which it appeared, hence there is little doubt but that the story is accessible in every ward.
There probably are in every community, too, a few people who have actually seen the great Heink and who have heard her sing. Due to the cleverness of Miss Mary Lawton, this biography reads like an autobiography. We have no third person narrative but a warm, informal story which seems to come from the very lips of the singer. So realistic is it that in places the reader feels that he is not only hearing her talk, but is actually seeing her. This illusion is enhanced by the copious illustrations, which show the Madame during all periods of her life and also many of the great musicians with whom she has associated.
The narrative is simple. It even suggests in its quaint phrasing that Schumann-Heink, though a naturalized American citizen and one to her heart's core, is of foreign birth. The idiom of her own language shines through the English to add charm. Miss Lawton succeeds in keeping herself entirely out of the reader's mind. She, it seems, acts as a wise stenographer and allows the interviewed?Schumann-Heink?to draw her own likeness; and what a likeness it is!
Here we have, to begin with, the daughter of a poor army officer who has scarcely enough to eat, let alone to give his family any sort of training. We behold the child sallow of skin even from youth, and to off-set that handicap with no good features except a pair of dark eyes. We see her as a child, doing childish things until her marvelous voice?even then marvelous?an inheritance probably from her mother?is heard by a sympathetic person who knows when she hears an unusual voice. Then we see the free lessons, followed by the struggle up and up towards a career. We see the disappointments the girl meets, but see shining through them all the heart of a Titan, as she struggles on and on. We come, through reading this book, to know just how much that one slothful servant of the parable might have accomplished with his one talent had he been possessed of the courage of this Austrian girl.
What would many of us have done under the following circumstances: LeBatt, a tenor from the Vienna Opera had heard the child sing through the efforts of Tante Nina Kienzl, the wife of a great composer who lived near the child and who frequently had celebrities call. LeBatt suggested that the child go to Vienna and sing before his director. Ernestine, however, had no money with which to go to Vienna, so she prevailed upon Tante Nina to introduce her to a rich retired officer who lived near by. This
 
man heard her sing and afterwards gave her money with which to make the trip.
"Yes, I went to Vienna?to the director?and sang." Madame Schumann-Heink declared, "I sang 'Ah, Mon Fils', and the 'Drinking Song' from 'Lucrezia Borgia'?'the Brindisi', they generally called it?which made me famous in the United States long years after?though at that time I didn't know anything about the United States; didn't know even that there was such a place!"
"Well, I had a good success, but that wasn't enough. The Director (Zauner was his name) listened to me patiently, and then turned to LeBatt, and said, shrugging his shoulders. "Well, what you want? What's all the fuss? Look at her! Mein Gott! With such a face?and such poverty?nothing? What do you want? What do you expect? Gott in Himmel!"
"And then to me, 'No, no my dear child, waving his hands. "Go home quick, and ask your kind friends who helped you to come to Vienna to buy you instead a sewing machine, and learn to be a good dressmaker maybe, or something like that?but a singer?an opera singer! Ach, no! Never?never in this world."
So home I went, heartbroken. Upon her return her father flew into a rage and told her to get back to school and learn to be a school teacher; but her old teacher and her mother still thought otherwise, and so also did Schumann-Heink.
Soon afterward a little Jew named Levi came to Graz to make engagements for singers. He went to Marietta von Leclair. Ernestine's teacher, and told her that the whole Vienna opera company was buzzing over the marvelous voice of the child. "Now I am interested in young singers," said he, "and I telegraphed to the Dresden Royal Opera, and they are willing to pay the expenses and hear her there, and if they find she is what they think, and has talent and voice, they will make a contract with her, I am sure." The teacher hastened over to the home of Ernestine. "Now," she said, "this is the real opportunity! I know positively this child will have a success. It is a sign of God!" The family was upset, for they had no money with which to pay the child's fare even though she was to be reimbursed. Again, however, the money was forthcoming from a friend. Ernestine had her chance and this time she was engaged at 3,600 marks the first year, 4,600 marks the second and 5,000 marks the third year.
"God knows what will happen to you, Tina, you are so young," her father said as she was ready to leave to embark upon her career.
"Well, his fears were useless," Schumann-Heink declares,
"Because from the very first, I had one big protection: I was homely * * * * I knew from the beginning how homely I was. But homely or not?nothing mattered then. For at last I have my contract for the Dresden Royal Opera?signed by the King."
The child's troubles were not by any means over, but from that point there was little turning back. She went from one triumph to another, though in between were many periods of despair, during one of which she even contemplated the killing of her children and suicide, because of her extreme poverty. It seems, however, that the gods or fate had decreed that she was to be a great singer, and nothing seemed capable of stopping her after once she set her foot upon the right path. Her greatest triumphs were achieved after she came to this country. Here in America she was acclaimed everywhere; and the little child who in Austria often had insufficient food received as high as $28,000.00 for a single week's engagement. No wonder that she adopted this country and was willing that some of her sons should fight for it in the World War even though one son was on the German side.
Any woman who reads this remarkable volume through will come from it, I feel sure, believing that the struggle is worth while. That it is great to be a great singer, but that it is also great to be a great mother who would, if need be, sacrifice her career or her life for her children. I think some of her closing words are worth repeating here, for fear that some of the sisters will not see them.
"It's a long, long trail?a long way I've come, a rough way in places, but it has been a wonderful life, all told, and I wouldn't have missed an hour of it or changed it for any other; for I've learned something, I hope, in these starving, working, bitter, and golden years. And now that I no longer look with the eager eyes of youth, I see more clearly than ever that one point, the very mainspring of my life, has been the concentration on my art. I never looked to the right or the left, I had simply this one big idea from the beginning?to reach the goal, to fulfill my childhood ambition?to be one of the great contraltos of the world. And, thank God! I've stuck to my point, through thick and thin, through poverty, sickness, and death, from youth to old age?and I've come at last to the top of the little tree that I planted so many, many years ago.
"The value of this to young singers is my only object in telling it all over again. This shall be my parting word?know what you want to do?then do it. Make straight for your goal and go undefeated in spirit to the end. And that, let me tell you, requires some doing?take it from Mother Schumann-Heink?and who should know better than I?"
 
"Yes, children, see it through, and perhaps you, too, will come, as I have, to a Golden Jubilee. This is a Golden Jubilee for me, in every sense of the word?as full of touching tributes as my heart is of gratitude. Gratitude!? that's my very last word? gratitude to the American people who have so made my American career! For it is here in America that my happiest years have been spent?it is here in America, please God, that I shall end my days?march on, 'booted and spurred,' as my father used to say, like an old soldier of fortune.
"For how better could one make the grand finale?and ring down the last curtain? Still marching on!"
"That is the great wish of my heart?to die as I've lived?in harness."
One closes the book feeling that here is a woman well worth the knowing, an achievement of which the world may well feel proud.
LESSON IV
Social Service (Fourth Week in April)
LESSON IV?PHYSICAL AND MENTAL DEFECTIVES
In lesson III we considered the extent and causes of physical and mental disease, and discussed the treatment of physical and mental defects operating to produce poverty and demoralization. The present lesson we shall devote to a consideration of (a) the crippled and disabled, (b) the blind and the deaf, and (c) the mentally defective.
A. The Crippled and Disabled.
The Minnesota State Board of Control defines a disabled person as "Any person who by reason of physical defect or deformity, whether congenital or acquired by accident, injury or disease is, or may be expected to be, totally or partially incapacitated for remunerative occupation."
The question arises: How many such persons are there? Statistics on this subject are difficult to secure. In 1916 a house to house canvass in Cleveland revealed the presence of more than 4,000 cripples?a ratio of about six disabled persons to every one thousand inhabitants. A census taken in Massachusetts in 1905 (Queen and Mann, "Social Pathology," Crowell, Page 521) gives "more than 17,000 lame, maimed and deformed persons, ?a ratio of 5.7 per thousand of the state's population. The close similarity of the figures from these two studies leads us to feel that an estimate for the entire United States may be based on
them, giving for the United States, 660,000 seriously disabled persons. Mr. Dean estimates the number of crippled and disabled in the United States to be over 2,000,000 'of whom 600,000 have been so incapacitated as to be rendered occupationally useless.' "
The causes of physical disability in adults can be determined only approximately. It is estimated (Queen and Mann, 524) "that of 600,000 permanently disabled persons in the United States, 300,000 represent the results of disease, 100,000 of industrial accidents, and 200,000 of other accidents."
For children, there are more accurate data of the causes of physical disability. The following table is furnished by the Spalding School, Chicago.
Diagnosis of Crippled Children In Chicago
Diagnosis Per cent. Infantile paralysis.............................32 Tuberculosis of bone..........................18 Spastic paralysis..............................10 Cardiac defects................................10 Amputations....................................6 Congenital defects.............................6 Osteomyelitis..................................5 Arthritis......................................3 Obstetrical paralysis..........................3 Sleeping sickness..............................1 Accidents......................................6
Types of Service
There are two distinct types of service for crippled and disabled children: one is medical; the other, educational. Medical services vary all the way from the out-patient department of the private general hospital to the highly specialized orthopedic sanitarium, maintained out of public funds. An example of the latter type is the remarkable institution maintained by the State of Iowa, at the State Medical School. During recent years great progress has been made in inventions and adaptations of prosthetic devices, artificial limbs, supports, braces, etc.
In most large cities, schools for crippled children are part of the public-school facilities, as in the Spalding School, Chicago, connected with the Institute for Destitute Crippled Children.
For the care of the crippled and disabled adult a new principle has been introduced in the United States. Following the World War, ex-soldiers and ex-sailors, instead of being pensioned, as in previous wars, were granted subsidies under the war-risk-insurance act. In addition to insurance, disabled soldiers and sailors
 
receive compensation, the amount varying with the nature of the injuries and with the number of their dependents. Our government went further and provided vocational rehabilitation and training for disabled veterans. These services are administered through the Veterans' Bureau, the American Red Cross, and the Federal Board for Vocation Education.
The same principles have been applied to the care of adults disabled in industry, so that now more than half the States have what is called civilian rehabilitation laws, which provide (a) insurance, (b) disability compensation, and (c) vocational re-education.
It is probably safe to conclude that in our own country, at least, society is dealing much more intelligently with the crippled and disabled than it has ever done before; but, many possibilities lie in the field of prevention.
B. The Blind And The Deaf.
In 1920 the United States census reported 52,500 blind persons in the United States, approximately 500 per 1,000,000 of the population. Of these 30,000 were male, and 22,500 were female. Only 10,000 of the blind were under the age of twenty-five. Most of these persons are greatly handicapped. It is probably safe to say that the great majority of the adult blind are not self-supporting. On the other hand, large numbers are employed and become partially self-supporting in broom-making, chair-caning, piano-tuning, basket-weaving, etc; and many blind persons are employed as news-dealers, clerks, salesmen.
The causes of blindness are interesting. In the case of 35,000 blind from whom data are available in the census, "two-fifths reported specific affections of the eye, such as cataract, glaucoma, atrophy of the optic nerve, ophthalmia neonatorum, and trachoma. One-sixth reported their blindness to be due to such general diseases as measles, meningitis and scarlet fever. Another one-sixth reported the cause of their blindness to be accidents from explosives, firearms, falls, etc. Finally, there were about one-fourth whose reports as to causation were indefinite or inaccurate. These included the blind who stated that their condition was congenital (not otherwise specified) that it was due to neuralgia, sore eyes, etc. From the first to the fifty-fourth year, external injury is the most frequent cause of blindness. From the fifth to the thirty-fourth year it produces more than one-fourth of all blindness, but from fifty-five on, cataract is the leading cause. Atrophy of the optic nerve gradually increased in frequency up to middle life, after which it continues as the second most important causal factor." (Queen and Mann, 552).
Cared For By States
Every State in the Union has one or more state boarding schools for the blind, furnishing systematic instruction in the fundamental school subjects and in vocational subjects. In most of the large school systems, provision is also made for the education and training of blind children. A number of states have gone so far as to provide special pensions for blind adults.
In addition to the facilities provided out of public funds, many private agencies support adult homes for the blind, workshops for the blind, special schools, home instruction, vocational education, libraries, bureaus of information, "light-houses."
The blind constitute perhaps the oldest and most permanent group of the physically handicapped, and while more social and public welfare work is done for them than for any other group of the disadvantaged, it is also true that a great deal has yet to be done on the preventive side. Social work and social workers could well afford to concentrate their energies on the causes of blindness.
Deafness, while a serious handicap, is not so disabling as blindness; yet the last census gives the number of deaf persons in the United States as 45,000, most of whom were over ten years of age. Approximately one-third of this number are persons able to speak, and about one-half are able to read lips. Four-fifths use the sign language, and an equal number employ finger-spelling. The great majority can write; the point being that practically all deaf persons are able to communicate.
Causes and Cures of Deafness
Deafness, of course, does not carry with it the economic disadvantage that blindness involves; most deaf persons being self-supporting.
One of the striking things about deafness is that about two-fifths of the deaf are born so handicapped. It is well known that certain types of deafness are hereditary, yet it must not be assumed that all cases of congenital deafness appearing in infancy are due to heredity. As a matter of fact, among the chief causes of deafness are scarlet fever, meningitis, brain fever, measles and typhoid.
Most states have provided systems of care for the deaf almost parallel to the facilities set up for the blind, boarding schools, special classes in the public schools, etc. Private agencies, supported out of private funds, are doing all sorts of helpful things for the deaf?research, job-finding, education of public opinion, etc.
What was said of blindness might be said with equal truth of deafness: the greatest effort yet remains to be exerted on the
 
side of prevention. Here again we find that the diseases of childhood, if intelligently controlled and prevented, would greatly reduce the amount of blindness and deafness. Intelligent parents can no longer take the position that whooping cough, scarlet fever, measles, are diseases inevitable in childhood and the sooner their children have them "and get it over with," the better.
The advent of the radio, particularly through the use of the earphone, has contributed greatly to the increased happiness of many partially deaf persons.
C. Mental Defectives.
Feeblemindedness is to be clearly distinguished from insanity; the latter is a mental disease; the former, a mental defect. Says the British Royal Commission: "A feebleminded person is one who is capable of earning a living under favorable circumstances, but is incapable, from mental defect existing from birth, or from an early age, (a) of competing on equal terms with his normal fellows; or (b) of managing himself and his affairs with ordinary prudence."
Psychologically, mental deficiency is sometimes described as a condition of arrested development, limiting the individual to a mental capacity not exceeding that of twelve-year-old normal children.
Most authorities agree that the percentage of feeblemindedness ranges from one-half of one per cent to three per cent of the population. Taking the smaller figure, this means that we have in the United States over 500,000 mental defectives; and, in Utah, a total of 2,500, 1,700 of whom would probably be children of school age, i. e., under fifteen years. Only the low-grade defectives need permanent care in state institutions. Higher grade defectives can and should be dealt with in the public schools.
While it is true that most feeblemindedness is the result of defective inheritance, it is also true that a large amount of mental deficiency is congenital, the direct result of alcoholism, tuberculosis, or syphilis, in the parents. Conditions acting before birth, during birth, and after birth can produce feeblemindedness. Such things as abnormal conditions of the mother during pregnancy, injuries to the fetus, abnormalities of labor, premature birth, head injuries, toxic conditions, convulsions, nutritional disturbances, are all well known causes of feeblemindedness that is not hereditary.
Treatment of the Feeble-Minded
Not much can be done medically and surgically for mental deficiency, although limited success has been achieved by means of what is popularly called "gland" treatment. Following are
principles generally accepted as the basis of a community's program for the control of feeblemindedness:
1. Identification.
2. Registration.
3. Special education in the public schools followed by community supervision, for the high-grade defective.
4. Segregation in a separate state school for the low-grade defective.
5. Segregation in a separate state institution for the defective delinquent.
Many states, during the last generation, have tried sterilization as a preventive measure against feeblemindedness. In most states where sterilization laws have been passed, however, this form of control is anything but successful. On the other hand, California, for instance?where the great majority of all sterilizations have been performed?seems to have achieved considerable success in the matter.
Questions For The Further Stimulation of Thought.
1. How many crippled and disabled persons are there in your community? How do they get along financially? What occupations do they follow?
2. Do you know of cases of poverty and family disorganization due to physical disability? How might social work meet this situation?
3. What sort of vocations and leisure-time activities are pursued by the blind in your community?
4. What do your own state laws provide regarding the education and training of blind children in the public schools?
5. Are the schools in your city, county, or district equipped with special classes for the education of blind, deaf, and crippled children? Why not?
6. What do your own state laws provide for the rehabilitation of workmen injured in industry?
7. Have you ever noticed that deaf people are inclined to be a little more irritable, sensitive, and suspicious than the blind? How do you account for this fact?
8. What provision has your community made for the education and training of high grade feebleminded children in your public schools?
9. What are the arguments for or against sterilization of mental defectives?
10. How intelligent is your community in the control of those children's diseases which sometimes result in physical deformity, blindness, deafness, and even feeblemindedness?