[Vol8 | March 1921 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Social Service - Child Labor]

LESSON IV Social Service. (Fourth Week in May) CHILD LABOR Its Use and Abuse in Human Development The purpose of child labor legislation is to correct abuses, or to prevent the exploitation of the child for material gain. The most flagrant cases of child exploitation occurred in England, as late as the middle of the 19th century, in the coal mines and in factories. These abuses were also common in manufacturing centers in the United States. More than fifty years ago Massachusetts passed laws forbidding employment in factories of children under ten, and limiting employment of those between ten and fourteen years. The principles upon which this type of legislation is based is that the child has a right to a reasonable opportunity for both 'physical and mental development, and that it is in harmony with the welfare of society that these rights should be protected. Child labor in mines and in factories is especially objectionable because so manifestly detrimental to child development. The monotony of it, its possible danger to life and limb, in case of inexperienced children, and its liability to unsanitary conditions, are manifest. It is not customary to restrict by law child labor on farms and in homes. A limited amount of varied farm labor experience has generally been regarded as a valuable factor in development of a boy; the same may be said of home work for a girl. This, however, is left to the judgment of parents, except as restricted indirectly by compulsory school attendance laws. The social and economic conditions that have thus far prevailed in the Rocky Mountain region have made child labor a much less difficult problem than in some of the great centers of population. It happens in some of our western cities and towns that the problem is reversed. Children, when out of school, grow up on the streets and in other public places, without opportunity to spend a little time each day in work suitable to de- 
 Velop habits of industry, responsibility and sense of economic values?essential qualities of character in every citizen. Some extreme opponents of child labor have gone so far as to say that a young person should be entirely free from work and its responsibilities up to the age of twenty-one?doubtless an excellent method of making irresponsible drones. It is very important that all the time of both children and youths be well occupied. Habits of merely loafing or getting into mischief may be worse than some forms of child labor. The young infant should be well occupied with sleep about eighteen hours out of twenty-four. As soon as he is able, his waking hours, not occupied in feeding, are devoted to play. Certain phases of initiative play develop into work, as do such simple activities as getting dressed and undressed, and putting clothing in its proper place. If the child is not trained early in these simple responsibilities, the task becomes doubly hard. At six or seven years the child's time properly becomes occupied with schooling, play, and suitable work, the last named in very limited amount; schooling is meant to include private lessons in activities such as music or folk-dancing. Play is a very important factor in the child's development. As he becomes mature, however, the proportion of time devoted to play,+as a major occupation and to work, as a minor occupation, should be very gradually reversed. This transition should, however, be so managed as always to keep in mind the good of the child; to give him the best opportunities for development of body and mind, not neglecting his positive moral development. In this connection suitable work is very necessary. One of the most important habits to be acquired is that of thoughtfulness of the comfort and welfare of others, and unselfish action. How many mothers ruin their own health and happiness by slaving for their sons and daughters, while at the same time they ruin their children's morals by confirming in them habits of laziness, selfishness and thoughtlessness? There is in every household some work suitable for healthy boys and girls. To make use of these opportunities in the moral training of children is just as important as to send them to school. It is a good thing to give an older child a little regular work and hold him strictly responsible for it. He may want to do it at first and as readily want some one else to do it for him when he is disinclined. When children rule the household, the parents do the children's tasks as often as the children require. It is needless to say that this also is morally ruinous. The firmness and persistence necessary to develop responsibilities in the child will, at times, require more parental labor than child labor, but it pays. QUESTIONS AND EXERCISES 1. (a) Do some farmers require too much work, or unsuitable work, of their boys under fourteen years of age? Give illustrations and reasons. (b) Do same mothers do likewise with their daughters of the same age?. 2. Why are long hours at monotonous work, even though easy, objectionable, in case of children under fourteen years? 3. Give examples of work suitable to children: (a) In case of girls seven to ten, (b) Ten to fourteen years, {c) In case of boys seven to ten, (d) Ten to fourteen years. Explain how this work may be beneficial to the child. 4. Show how failure to requife any work of children, seven to fourteen years of age, may be detrimental to the child. Give illustrations. 5. Explain the mother's responsibility in training her daughters in habits of service in the home. 6. (a) In what way is the labor of children up to 14, 16, or 18 years of age limited by law in your state? (b) What is the purpose of this law? 7. State the principle by which you can determine in any case what work to require and what not to require of a child of any given age? PROSPECTIVE MOTHER By Addie S. Pace Prospective mother: The purest emblem of unselfish love, thou art, As soul to soul thou dost commune with newly pulsing heart, As hand in hand with God thou treadest holy ground, With him dost mould immortal clay When lo! His masterpiece is formed. Prospective mother: The sweetest task of all life's given tasks is thine, Responsibility it is that makes it so sublime, A privilege ne'er equalled in all the work of art, To fashion that tabernacle fit to clothe a spark of God. Prospective mother: Let thy day of privilege be one glad day of song, To show thy worthiness of favors so divine, sing on, sing on; Fear thou no evil, though thy way through shadow lies, God shall not desert thee, nor forget thy noble sacrifice. W. R. McDONALD, Pres. D. H. CANNON, Mer. CAPITOL COAL COMPANY Successors to Fischer-Kittle Coal Company Phones Was. 2328-2329 305 SOUTH MAIN STREET Announcing a new name with the same old QUALITY and SERVICE. Dealers in Utah's Best Coals, Coke and Kindling 4 Uses Roof Garden Chocolate (Sweetened) Cake Icing Bon Bon Dipping Hot Chocolate _ Eating New, different, delicious?Roof Garden Chocolate is a sweetened chocolate that is at once a dainty confection for eating, a bon bon coating, a rich drinking chocolate and an icing for cake. In any of its four uses, Roof Garden Chocolate requires no butter, no sugar, no eggs and no flavoring. And it's absolutely no trouble. Complete and simple directions are on every package. McDonald's New York Chicago Salt Lake San Francisco BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices.. Call at our Burial Clothes Department. Room 22 Bishop's Building. Prompt attention given all out of town orders. TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER.