[Vol8 | March 1921 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Work and Business]
130  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
described,  in  vivid  language,  the  pioneer  home  life  of  grand- 
father Wm.  Huntington,  in  their  New  England  home,  and  re- 
lated the  conversion  of  the  family  through  the  Martyr-Patriarch 
Hyrum  Smith.  She  referred  to  her  mother's  first  marriage,  and 
the  two  noble  sons  born  of  that  union,  Zebulon  and  Chariton 
Jacobs,  and  then  told  other  interesting  facts  concerning  her 
mother's  removal  to  Nauvoo,  and  subsequent  life.  Mrs.  Maria 
Y.  Dougall  and  Mrs.  Phebe  Beattie,  both  eulogized  the  life  and 
character  of  their  sainted  step-mother,  in  touching  and  moving 
words.  Sister  Jeanette  A.  Hyde  followed  with  a  brief  but 
comprehensive  sketch  of  the  life  and  labors  of  President  Zina  D. 
PI.  Young. 
Sister  Zina's  father,  William  Huntington,  came  into  the 
Church  with  his  5  children,  the  three  sons,  William,  Dymoch,  and 
Oliver,  the  two  daughters,  Zina  and  Prescin^a.  Wm.  and 
Dymoch  were  the  chosen  body-guard  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  in  his  life,  his  death,  and  they  guarded  his  body  to  its  final 
resting-place.  Dymoch  was  the  leader  of  the  pioneer  martial 
band.  Who  does  not  remember  his  stately  dignity,  his  imposing 
appearance,  as  he  marched  at  the  head  of  the  procession  and  of 
his  band  on  our  national  holidays? 
Prescinda  married  President  Heber  C.  Kimball,  and  her  son 
Joseph  is  one  of  our  well-known  business  men. 
Descendants  of  each  of  these  five  families  were  guests  at 
the  memorial  service,  about  fifty  of  them  being  from  the  Hunt- 
ington's and  about  thirty  were  from  Sister  Zina's  family.  Bishop 
Huntington  of  Springville  who  was  present  is  the  worthy  son  of 
his  noble  father  Oliver  Huntington,  the  Patriarch. 
Refreshments  were  served  by  the  granddaughters  of  Zina 
D.  H.  Young,  and  consisted  of  old-fashioned  cookies,  bananas, 
cheese  and  chocolate. 
It  may  be  interesting  to  our  readers  to  give  here  a  sketch 
of  Sister  Young  which  was  printed  in  the  Young  Ladies'  Mutual 
Improvement  Association  History,  some  years  ago. 
ZINA  D.  HUNTINGTON  YOUNG 
"There  have  been  many  noble  women,  some  great  women,  and 
a  multitude  of  good  women,  associated,  past  and  present,  with 
the  Latter-day  work.  But  of  them  all,  none  was  so  lovely,  so 
lovable,  and  so  greatly  beloved  as  was  "Aunt  Zina."  To  be  sure 
the  explanation  seems  simple,  but  it  only  "seems,"  for  it  is  any- 
thing but  simple  to  live  the  perfect  Christian  life  which  was  lived 
by  this  saintly  woman  for  over  eighty  years. 
"Aunt  Zina  was  a  perfect  example  of  the  teachings  of  Paul 
I  Corinthians  13 ;  yet,  with  all  her  tenderness  and  exquisite  deli-

CENTENNIAL  OF  PRESIDENT  ZINA  D.  H.  YOUNG.    131 
cacy  of  motive  and  act,  there  was  a  sturdy  strength  about  her 
v/hich  made  up  the  heroic  part  of  her  character.  She  was  ex- 
tremely quick  in  her  perceptions,  and  was  keenly  conscious  of 
malicious  conduct  or  slighting-  treatment ;  but  her  nobility  pre- 
vented her  from  resenting  ill-treatment,  and  she  was  ready  to 
forgive  long  before  asked  to  do  so. 
"It  is  related  of  her  that  on  one  occasion  she  was  told  that 
a  certain  woman  did  not  like  her.  Aunt  Zina  looked  quietly  into 
the  eyes  of  her  informer  and  said,  with  simple  dignity  and  sin- 
cerity :  'Well,  I  love  her,  sister,  and  she  can't  help  herself.' 
"It  is  an  established  fact  that,  almost  without  exception,  the 
founders  of  the  "Mormon"  Church  were  descendants  of  the 
founders  of  the  American  nation,  and  it  is  a  pleasing  task  to  study 
the  genealogical  history  of  the  men  and  women  who  have,  under 
God,  laid  the  foundations  of  this  Church. 
"Zina  Huntington  Young  was  descended  from  a  line  of  dis- 
tinguished ancestry.  Lady  Salina  Huntington,  who  came  from 
one  branch  of  the  family,  was  the  daughter  of  the  Earl  of  Fer- 
rars,  and  a  co-laborer  of  the  famous  reformer,  Wesley.  The  pedi- 
gree of  this  family,  and  that  of  George  Washington,  the  first 
American,  meet  in  the  same  parentage,  a  few  generations  be- 
fore either  of  these  distinguished  personages  was  born.  The 
mother  of  Aunt  Zina  was  a  Dimock,  and  she  was  of  the  family 
of  Sir.  Edward  Dymock.  Knight.  Champion  to  Queen  Elizabeth. 
The  Dymocks  were  hereditary  holders  of  this  title  for  several 
generations. 
"Aunt  Zina's  father  was  one  of  the  patriots  who  served  in 
the  war  of  1812.  Samuel  Huntington,  one  of  the  signers  of  the 
Declaration  of  Independence,  was  the  uncle  of  this  sturdy  and 
gallant  soldier.  Her  own  father  was  descended  directly  from 
Simon  Huntington,  the  Puritan  immigrant,  who  sailed  for  Amer- 
ica in  1633,  but  on  the  way  died  of  small-pox.  His  wife  and  little 
children  settled  in  Roxbury,  and  were  under  the  direct  charge 
of  the  famous  pastor,  John  Elliot.  Her  paternal  grandmother 
was  a  Lathrop,  of  the  Black  River  Valley,  New  York. 
"Aunt  Zina  was  born  Jan.  31,  1821,  at  Watertown  where  her 
parents  had  emigrated,  and  she  was  baptized  in  Kirtland  by  the 
Patriarch  Hyrum  Smith,  August  14,  1835.  Young  as  she  was,  she 
received,  during  this  year  at  Kirtland  the  two  beautiful  gifts 
which  never  afterwards  left  her:  that  of  speaking  in  tongues 
and  of  interpretation  of  tongues.  She  was  a  member  of  the 
Kirtland  temple  choir,  and  began,  even  in  her  youth,  the  work 
of  her  life — the  teaching  of  the  young.  She  was  eminently  gifted 
as  a  teacher.  She  not  only  had  the  gift  of  imparting  informa- 
tion from  the  modest  store  of  book-learning  which  she  possessed, 
but  she  had  that  higher,  rarer  gift  of  imparting  the  inspiration