[Vol7 | August 1920 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Official Round Table]

OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 473 of the duties and purposes of the various auxiliary associations. The presidency of the stake will have charge, and all necessary official business of the stake receive attention. The stake choir will provide music for all public meetings as usual. Inasmuch as the program of these group conventions contemplates the attendance of all stake and ward workers of six auxiliary organizations, it will be necessary to make special arrangements to accommodate the various groups who must assemble at the same time in various meetings. All presiding authorities and priesthood of stake and wards are invited to attend and so participate as to increase their understanding and interest in all auxiliary endeavor. It is expected that a representative of each General Board will be in attendance to promote the interest of his or her respective organization. Following are the stakes in which these conventions will be held: Dates of Conventions. July 31 and August 1— Taylor, Boise, Curlew, Raft River, Summit. Wayne. August 7 and 8-— Emery, Millard, Alberta, Juab. August 14 and 15 — San Juan, Bannock, Big Horn, Teton, Blaine, Malad. August 21 and 22 — Portneuf, Pocatello, Young, Bear Lake, Burley. August 28 and 29 — Panguitch, Idaho, San Luis. September 4 and 5— Kanab, Morgan, Lost River, Twin Falls, Oneida. September 18 and 19 — St. George, Uintah, Star Valley, Union, Montpelier. September 25 and 26 — Sevier, Deseret, Dueschne, Carbon, Parowan. Following the October Conference: Beaver, Tooele, Tintic, St. Johns, Wasatch, Woodruff, Cassia, Snowflake, Maricopa, St. Joseph, Moapa. Roosevelt and Franklin not set. _ PROGRAM. Saturday, 10 a. m. — Regular quarterly conference session. Saturday, 11a. m. — Relief Society stake and ward officers. Meeting of Sunday school local superintendencies, secretaries, librarians, and all other Sunday school workers not engaged in other auxiliary organizations at that hour. 
 M. I. A. stake and ward officers. Primary Association stake and ward officers. Religion class stake and ward officers. Saturday, 2 p. m. — Regular quarterly conference session. Saturday, 3 p. m. — Relief Society stake board officers. Sunday school stake board officers. M. I. A. joint meeting stake and ward officers. Primary Association stake and ward officers. Religion class departments with stake and ward officers. Saturday, 4 p. m. — Joint department meetings of all organizations. Superintendents and executive departments, secretaries, treasurers, choristers, and organists. Saturday evening — Social (option) under direction stake presidency and stake social committee. Sunday, 9-10:30 a. m. — Relief Society stake and ward officers. Y. M. M. I. A. separate meeting. Y. L. M. I. A. separate meeting Primary Association stake and ward officers Religion class stake and ward officers. Note: The above departments will meet and dismiss without general assembly. Sunday, 10:30 a. m. — Regular quarterly conference session. Sunday, 12:30 p. m. — General session of all Sunday school workers. Sunday, 2:30 p. m. — Regular quarterly conference session. PROGRAM OF RELIEF SOCIETY MEETINGS. Saturday, 11:00 a. m. — Relief Society stake and ward officers. 1. Report, stake president. 2. Brief reports, ward presidents. 3. Officers: (a) Selection of officers. (b) Duties of officers. Saturday, 3:00 p. m. — Relief Society "Stake board officers. 1. Questionnaire, to be filled out by General Board visitor (during session.) 2. Miscellaneous topics. General Board member. 3. Round table discussion of stake problems. Sunday, 9-10:30 a. m. — Relief Society stake and ward officers. 1. Membership campaign. 2. Stake dues. 3. Work and business meeting. 4 Miscellaneous. OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 
 Mrs. Rozelia M. Watson Be cheerful. Let duty be a pleasure. Drive thy business, let not work drive thee. Keep thyself clean. The Spirit of the Lord will not dwell in unclean and unholy tabernacles. Cleanliness is next to godliness. Observe the word of wisdom. Go early to bed and arise early. Seek ye out of the best books words of wisdom. "And that thou mayst more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world thou shalt go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day, for verily this is the day appointed unto you to rest from your labors and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High." Be meek and prayerful that you enter not into temptation, but have strength to overcome evil. Set thy spiritual and temporal house in order. Allow not thy heart to be hardened to the sorrows of thy neighbor. Love will find a way to serve and what thou gives to others will come back to thee sometime, someway. Bring thy will in subjection to the will of God that thou mayst be educated for thy future work and thy future home in heaven. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. Montpelier Stake, In the Montpelier stake there are twelve wards, with a total membership of 500, which is a very good showing when we take into consideration the fact that there are only 793 L. D. S. fails in the stake. This record is above the average. Two hundred and sixteen members are subscribers to the "Magazine" ;  thirty-two bodies were prepared for burial;  forty-eight visits were made to the wards by the stake officers, which would average four visits to each ward during the year;  390 days were spent with the sick;  and 714 special visits were made to the sick. Juarez Stake. Mrs. Fanny Harper, president of the Juarez stake, reports that the members of the Relief Society in Mexico are very 
 energetic and desirous of following out the plans, including lesson work, as outlined in the Relief Society "Magazine." They have one organization composed entirely of native Mexicans, who are studying earnestly the lessons from the "Book of Mormon." Those who have been converted have great faith in the gospel, and do relief work among their own people. The spirit of fear has largely been taken from the L. D. S. colonists, and they feel that a part of their mission in that land is to help the Mexican people. The charity work in this stake is done almost wholly among the natives, and it amounts to a great deal more than is being reported. The members of the Relief Society feed those who are hungry, cloth those in need, and visit the sick. It is believed that the local Mexicans would regret very much to see the "Mormon" people leave this country. Among the Latter-day Saints there are no rich and no poor. The majority of the people are comfortable and do not lack for the necessities of life. Mexican labor is very cheap and the "Mormon" colonists have a good part of their time for spirituality and the care of their families. They are planning to do genealogical and temple work. The people go about their work having no fear, and trusting in the Lord for protection. If a band of invaders comes and takes all they can find, the colonists still discover enough provisions left to tide them over until another harvest, and so they trust and hope on. Panitch Stake. Mrs. Rohana Hatch Henri celebrated her eighty-eighth birthday on May 19, 1920. It is very interesting to know that Mrs. Henri, as well as our own dear president, witnessed the historic scene in the Church, when the mantle of the Prophet Joseph Smith rested on President Brigham Young at Nauvoo, Illinois, in 1844, just after the martyrdom. The Panguitch stake people are very proud that Sister Henri has been permitted to live among them, and to bear her testimony to this wonderful event. Rigby Stake. The Rigby Second ward, with Sister Elizabeth Ossmen, president, and Elizabeth Campbell and Serena Mason, counsellors, held a community quilting on May 10, 1920. Nine quilts were quilted and bound during the day. There were in attendance one hundred eleven, twenty-four more than the enrollment. The day was a real love feast for the sisters, and for the strangers who came, many visitors declaring that the regular meeting would find them enrolling with the OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 477 association. Refreshments were served at the close of the work. The quilt materials were all donated by the ward members, and the quilts are to be sold to establish a general treasury, as this is a new ward, organized only last February. Thirteen quilts in all have been made by the association since its organization. Wayne Stake. Mrs. Pauline Brown, who has served faithfully for a number of years as secretary of the Wayne stake, has resigned on account of poor health, and on December 27, 1919, Mrs. Emily A. Blackburn was appointed to take her place. Mrs. Sarah G. Meeks, who was president of the Thurber Relief Society for thirty-nine years, where she served faithfully and well, has also resigned on account of poor health. Curlew Stake. There are ten organizations in the Curlew stake, all of which are taking up the lessons identically as outlined in the "Magazine." At the beginning of the year, the stake officers and board members sent a letter of greeting and special instructions to each ward president, expressing appreciation for the splendid work done during the year, and giving some detailed instruction with regard to the work for the year. In 1919, this stake made an excursion to the temple, doing work for two hundred six souls. It is the plan this year to make a similar excursion which it is felt will be larger than that of last year. Board meetings are held regularly every two weeks, and once a month in connection with the stake priesthood meeting, a stake and local officers' meeting is held. The Relief Society women in this stake have the privilege of visiting the wards in company with the stake presidency and high councilmen, which they greatly appreciate. The ward teachers are furnished with outlined topics for their monthly visits. At the work and business meeting, all kinds of sewing and remodeling are done, and special instructions in cutting and fitting are given by experienced dressmakers. The "Millennial Star." In the "Millennial Star," dated May 13, 1920, there appears a comprehensive editorial on the Relief Society. A sketch was given of the meetings of the April conference, including a summary of the Relief Society annual report for 1919. The comment was made that figures, however precise and great, are but a small part of the beautiful woik 
 of the Relief Society. The devotion of general, stake, and local officers was commented upon, and the Relief Society was eulogized for the work which has been done along human welfare lines from the beginning. Samoan Mission. The following very interesting report has been received from Elder John Q. Adams, president of the Samoan mission, giving a description of some phases of Relief Society work in the South Sea Islands: We, of the remote Southern Seas, are interested in Relief Society activities as a very essential phase of our work among the islanders. We have a conference president over each island, which corresportds to a stake in Zion, and also one over each branch of sisters, to effect an organization, which, in turn, is similar to a ward at home. The other officers are also appointed, with the exception of a board, the missionaries assuming that responsibility in the various units with Sister Jhurza Adams, wife of the mission president, in charge of the entire mission. Practically the same activities are engaged in, including a definite and continuous course of study, the collection of the regular relief funds to be used under circumstances similjar to, tjhose governing at home, assistance in sickness or death;  in fact, the Samoan sisters are carrying on the ideals and spirit of their division of the gospel responsibiHties as closely as local enviroments will permit. For a glimpse of some unusual features of the work here, it might prove interesting and profitable to you in Zion to mentally accompany a group of our sisters on one of their recent journeys of several weeks duration around the Island of Tutuila. This bit of South Sea Eden is but an irregular mountain of approximately five by twenty miles, around whose coast line a fringe of plumy cocoanut trees extends. At frequent intervals native villages of tawny, thatched homes peep from the shade, their fronts edging the ocean and at their back doors, towering, abrupt, volcanic heights, all covered with a blanketing, tropical wilderness of green. At every turn there is a confronting scene of rare beauty and charm. Not long since, a proselyting party of about twenty-five left our school village of Mapusaga to tour the island in its entirety in the direct interests of Relief Society work. The conference presidency of three native sisters of middle age. Elders Hale and Peterson, and the balance boys and girls from the school, made up the force of trampers, for no OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 479 Other mode of travel is possible, if all the villages are to be reached. The method of procedure is for the whole party to enter a village and rest in some large native house until arrangements can be effected for the evening's entertainment. In the meanwhile, the chiefs drop in, extend island courtesy in the form of a passed drink of the kava plant, accompanied with respectful welcoming speeches of high class language. Incidentally, permission is granted for the exercises later on at night. The balance of the day is required in visiting the houses for gospel conversations and in preparing for the program. As the appointed hour approaches the crowd assembles, mostly half clad, and all expectancy, for the "Mormons" are accredited with usually having something worthy of presentation. A native house is open on all sides like a pavillion, so in or out becomes an easy and simple act. No occasion for worry need result from the lack of benches or chairs, as a few mats spread on the pebble floor serves the purpose equally well. In order to obtain the benefit of the program, the audience is obliged to listen to an hour of gospel as a preliminary, in which the elders and especially the sisters, emphasize principles and truths, and point out the great gap filled by the Relief Society in providing for better homes, brighter children, alleviation of human suffering, and general advancement. In fifteen of the villages recently visited, all outsiders, thirteen such meetings were attended by crowded houses and it is the testimony of all our party that never was the Spirit of the Lord in greater abundance than upon each occasion. The listeners were attentive and in every other way, too, were we received with respect and courtesy. In the one matter of food alone was this apparent. A dozen whole roasted pigs, kegs of salt meat, dozens of cans of salmon, and beef, piles of bread, and an abundance of native food of all descriptions, were heaped up before us for use as required. At times, a touching spectacle was presented by the oldest sister, especially, who acts as conference president. Sister Fiauu Kenison has been to America, speaks good English, and is an exceptionally talented member of the Church. She is far past the expected age of such heavy exertion as a three weeks' tramp in the rain, over rocks, through mud and in a tropical sun, yet she entered joyfully into it, and through her splendid enthusiasm, made of the various occasions spiritual feasts. At times, on some very 
 difficult part of the trail as it ascended a steep mountain side, it became necessary to draw her up with a rope! In the face of this, she plodded along singing and cheering her companions. Mention should be made of the fact that, immediately succeeding the religious service each evening, there followed a program rendered in English of songs, speeches, dialogues, etc., presented by our school children. The direct effect of such a method is to generally draw some to the school. In one village, after the usual amount of food had been brought in, a purse was made up and presented by the chiefs (all outsiders, please remember), but it was refused on the grounds that we are not in the service of the Lord for wages, which unprecedented act greatly astonished them. At another village, the inhabitants manifested such a friendly spirit as to offer to convey the party in the village boats to the next stopping point. This was not accepted as the journey was then practically at an end. All told, the joy of those participating in the tour and the results in developing friendly relations with those formerly hating us, were both remarkable, and the outsiders of the island now are in possession of considerable knowledge concerning the work of the sisters of the Church.