[Vol7 | August 1920 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial Who Pays the Price A Visitor from Across the Sea]

EDITORIAL  Vol. VII August, 1920 No. 8 Who Pays the Price? We sometimes fancy that people are abusing us, that the Church is unjust in its demands upon our time, and that we are altogether to be pitied. In that condition of mind we are very apt to be irritable with our families, to suspect our friends of treachery and to criticize the Church authorities unmercifully. Who pays the price of our wrong-doing and our evil speaking, do you know? Our boys fall into the habit of smoking a little, swearing a little, and gambling a little. In our endeavor to keep them close to us, we are sometimes apt to palliate the sin in an endeavor to please and encourage the sinner. We hear our husbands and sons fall into revilement and bitter criticism of Church authorities for "this, that or the other" and, in our thoughtlessness or indifference, follow suite and join in the hue and cry against each other in politics and business, and in Church affairs. Who pays the price of our own broken covenants and that of our husbands and sons;  do you know;  do you ever think about it? Our girls flatly refuse to be married in the temple as they will thereby be deprived of going about practically naked in the streets and ball rooms of our increasingly wicked cities and towns. We sympathize with the girls and think it is a shame to rob them of so-called good times, and fail to make 
 them understand that, if they go to the temple, the favor is all on their side and not upon that of the Lord or his servants who work there. If, by coaxing and coercion, we can persuade our sons and daughters to be married in the temple, we quietly wink at their failure to live up to their covenants, and smile at their evil practices, while we blame some sharp-tongued person AAjho may have stated the law a little too frankly and a little too plainly to suit the lax morals of modern girlhood and womanhood. Who pays the price for our own actions and for the growing depravity of our young people;  do you know;  have you ever thought about it? Just stop a moment and take stock of your own attitude on the question of right and wrong. You will soon learn who pays the price. A VISITOR FROM ACROSS THE SEA. Among the members attending the annual meeting of the National Education Association in Salt Lake City from July 3-10, was Miss Annie Burrett, L.L.A., a teacher from London, England. She did not come from London direct, but by way of Toronto, where she has been teaching since October, 1919. At the end of September, 1920, she is due back at her work in a London school. At the beginning of 1914, an Exchange of Teachers between Canada and the old country was proposed by a body of people whose motto was, "hands across the sea." The London County Council agreed to this scheme by which ten of their staff, including our recent overseas visitor, were selected to exchange with teachers in various parts of Canada. The number was subsequently increased to thirteen. Owing to the outbreak of the Great War, the Exchange was not carried out in its entirety;  but the scheme was merely postponed, not abandoned. Shortly after the signing of the armistice, Sir Robert Blair, education officer to the London County Council, informed Miss Burrett that it might be possible to obtain educational experience in Canada under the auspices of the League of Empire. In due course, the matter was arranged, the London Education Committee granting a year's leave of absence, and the Toronto Board of Education undertaking to give temporary employment in one of their schools. During the present year, the League of Empire has been arranging a regular yearly exchange of teachers between the EDITORIAL 483 mother country and the overseas dominions. Dr. Hardy, of Toronto, has accepted the office of secretary for Canada, and there is every prospect of a successful development, now that such details as recognition of certificates, appointments, and salaries have been mutually agreed upon. The League of Empire aims at further strengthening the intangible, but nevertheless strong, bond of union which the war proved to exist between the scattered parts of the British empire. The Exchange of Teachers is not the least important of the means by which the peoples under the British flag are to be brought into closer contact with one another. Personal intercourse fosters deeper friendship, and promotes good understanding. Mutual interchange of ideas enables communities, as well as individuals, to obtain a clearer vision of the other's point of view, and when inevitable differences of opinion arise, difficulties will be met in a friendly and tolerant spirit. The Exchange of Teachers is so far confined within the limits of the empire, but there is no reason why it should not be extended. Any plan which will enable the British and American nations to come into closer friendly contact must be for the good of the world. Miss Burrett came to our editorial office with a letter of introduction from the famous educator and author of Canada, Dr. James L. Hughes. That Miss Burrett herself is broadminded, brilliant, yet exceedingly conservative, charmingly simple in her manner and appeal, made the happy task of introducing her to our leading women both a delight and a recreation — a real re-creation. We admire her point of view, which is exceedingly cosmopolitan, and therefore not insular, yet also exceedingly English in application of the best traditions and inheritances of our beloved mother country. We hope she takes with her as pleasant an impression of this people and this city as remains behind her, like an aroma of sweet remembrance. Miss Burrett's personal experience during her year's work and play on this side of the Atlantic has convinced her that the extension of the Exchange of Teachers scheme would be beneficial, both to the education authorities and their employees who enjoy the advantage of a year abroad. Adopting Dr. Hardy's suggestion, she wrote to Dr. Crabtree, secretary of the N. E. A., regarding membership of the association, receiving a warm invitation to attend the N. E. A. from Washington, D. C, she came with another famous Canadian woman, Mrs. Gross. She writes: "I will never regret taking the long journey across the continent to Salt Lake 
 City. My visit has been made exceptionally and unexpectedly interesting by my good fortune in having the opportunity of meeting some of the best known people of the 'Mormon' community. This was made possible by Dr. James L. Hughes, of Toronto, who, having enjoyed acquaintance with some of the 'Mormon' leaders years ago, was anxious that others should have a similar privilege. He gave me a letter of introduction to the editor of the Woman's Relief Society 'Magazine.' "In far away England very little is generally known about the present day 'Mormon' religion. It was therefore a pleasant and helpful educational experience for an Englishwoman to spend a whole morning at the Bishop's building, in the company of the women officials there found. It was a revelation to hear of the highly organized relief work, and to get an insight into the efficient organization for making the children and young girls feel that they have a real and definite place in the Church. "To a trained teacher, the exhibition of children's work on the top floor gave evidence of very efficient work on the part of their instructors. "At midday I was taken to see Mrs. Wells in her room at the Hotel Utah. She was temporarily indisposed, but in spite of this, told with marvelous clearness of the story of her early years when, as a young married woman, she crossed the wide territory from east to west in the wake of the pioneers, as long ago as 1848. "It was, indeed, unfortunate that she, a duly qualified certificated teacher, with experience in New England and in the first 'Mormon' school in Salt Lake City, should have been unable to satisfy her earnest desire to meet the educators of the present generation, assembled in such numbers in the rotunda below. "After a morning well spent in learning something of the work carried on in the various offices in the busy hive opposite the temple, I had the privilege of visiting the log cabin home of Dr. and Mrs. Widtsoe on the mountains at the head of Big Cottonwood canyon. As president of the University of Utah, Dr. Widtsoe was naturally in close touch with the leaders of the N. E. A., and busy attending the various sessions, and his kindness in sparing time to take a party in his car on that beautiful mountain road in the cool of the evening, was very much appreciated. "I shall take away with me happy memories of the beauty of Salt Lake Valley, and of the kindness of all the EDITORIAL 485 good folks I met during my all too brief visit to Salt Lake City." Honors for General Board Members. The General Board of the Relief Society, and "Mormon" women in general, have been greatly honored this summer in the appointment of two of its members to high honors and responsibility. Mrs. Janette A. Hyde was supremely recognized, and the General Board was honored in that recognition, in the recent Republican convention in Chicago;  while Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry will journey across the seas to represent this society in the quinquennial session of the National and International Council of Women to be held at Christiania, Norway, in September. Mrs. Ida Smoot Dusenberry, who goes to represent the women of the Relief Society and who was appointed by President
Emmeline B. Wells as her proxy, is herself of Norwegian extraction. Her mother was born in Norway and Mrs. Dusenberry will therefore find very much of personal interest in her visit to her mother's native country. The meeting in Christiania will consider public health service, educational advancement, citizenship, juvenile courts, better films, etc., etc., in their relation to international, as well as national, needs. Mrs. Dusenberry is especially qualified to assist in these deliberations on all questions of educational interest and modern social service methods. Her excellent reasoning power, her quick perceptions and her trained intellect will add force to her oratory, while the truths she will be able to present will inform her remarks and inspire her utterances. She goes with the congratulations of the General Board and the blessings and good wishes of the members of this society. Her only daughter, Margaret, who is an accomplished musician, will accompany her mother on this trip. Mrs. Janette A. Hyde, the business manager of our "Magazine" and a prominent and popular member of the conservation work, done during the war, and now carried forward in the Civic Center, has been singularly honored in a national way. She was appointed by the national Republican committee, under Chairman Will H. Hays, on January 4, 1920, to act as a member of the national council of one hundred. On January 14, she was invited by the National Republican Committee to represent the Utah Republican women in a regional conference, held at Denver, January 14, 1920. Such a favorable impression was made that she was again invited to speak in Denver at the Lincoln Club, February 9, 1920. She was elected as a delegate at large in our state convention, held May 3, 1920, and was chosen as the first full delegate, of her sex, from Utah, to attend the national convention in Chicago in May. Later she was appointed as one of the assistant secretaries of the national convention and sat upon the platform with the general officers of the convention. She has been appointed as an executive national committee woman for Utah, through both the presidential Republican nominee. Governor Harding, and National Chairman Will Hays. An even greater honor was shown in placing her upon the executive committee of the committee of the whole. On July 1, she received a telegram appointing her on the notification committee to go to Marion, Ohio, the home town of Governor Harding, to formally notify him of his national appointment, July 22, 1920. While in the Chicago convention she was asked to speak at the Philadelphia Club, at the Blackstone Hotel, as the guest of the Woman's Cycle and Saddle Club. She was the guest of honor at the Arts Club in the Arts Building while at Chicago. Prior to these appointments she served as state chairman of the women of Utah for several years. The following extract from the conservative Democratic paper, the "New York Sun," proves the impression made by Mrs. Hyde and her associates in the Republican convention: "To those who have watched the evolution of women in public life without prejudice the excellent impression made on all observers by the women at the Republican convention does not come as a surprise. There were some members of that convention, however, who have not been unprejudiced, and the tributes the women won from them are worth recording. "A most interesting event occurred in the private committee meeting held of all of the women delegates to the convention, on arriving in Chicago, presided over by Mary Garret Hays. Advanced measures were proposed and resolutions brought forward during this meeting. Suddenly Mrs. Hyde was made the subject of an attack by Mrs. Emma Bush, in connection with the resolution brought forward by this delegate denouncing "Mormonism," Senator Smoot, etc., etc., and calling for an order in the convention which would prevent any "Mormon" from taking part therein. Miss Hay at once called upon Mrs. Hyde to answer this charge, expressing her own admiration at the same time for "Mormon" women and for Mrs. Hyde in particular. Instantly the delegate from Michigan was on her feet and sharply asked Mrs. Hyde a question: "Do you believe in polygamy?" she said. "Yes, I most certainly do," replied Mrs. Hyde. There was a hubbub followed which Miss Hay again quieted. Mrs. Bush repeated her question and Mrs. Hyde repeated her reply, frankly and without reservations except the explanation that the principle is not practiced today nor has been since the issuance of the manifesto, in 1893. Mrs. Hyde countered by explaining that she supposed the gathering was a political one and not a religious one and that she did not feel called upon to inquire if any of the women believed in the signs and crosses of the Catholic faith, nor Christian Science, nor any other religion, but left every woman to worship as she pleased, feeling that a common ground for all good will be found in the principles of freedom upon which this government was founded. Mrs. Hyde's independent and frank reply won the instant admiration of all members present and she was showered with social attentions all the time she was in Chicago. "Mrs. Hyde is an intimate friend of Senator Smoot and wife and loyally devoted to the cause of Republicanism which she so ably represents." Utah women, indeed "Mormon" women, have also been greatly honored in the appointment of Mrs. Elizabeth H. Hayward, a year and a half ago, to act as National Democratic committee women from Utah. Mrs. Hayward has long been locally famous as a suffrage leader, legislator, and publicist. She was at the San Francisco convention with our well known professor, Alice Reynolds, and both were shown great attention and courtesy. Miss Reynolds made two seconding speeches from the floor of the convention. Indeed, both parties, now and always in Utah, have been just and liberal in their treatment of women, both as individuals and as a sex. We congratulate our famous representatives and ourselves in these recent developments.