[Vol7 | August 1920 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Class in Charities and Relief Work]

THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. VII. August, 1920 No. 8 Class in Charities and Relief Work Brigham Young University Summer School. Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman At the joint call of the general authorities of the Church, the Social Advisory Committee of the Church, and the General Board of Relief Society, through the stake authorities, sixty-eight Relief Society women from sixty-five stakes assembled at the Brigham Young University, in Provo, on May 31, for relief work a regular six weeks' intensive course in charities and With two other groups similarly called, for training in social and recreation leadership, and teacher-training, respectively, there were in all two hundred fifteen special students for these special courses, in addition to the regular college students, numbering two hundred. In order that the course might be completed before the great N. E. A., to be held in Salt Lake City on July 3-10, classes were held on Saturday, making a six-day school week, for five weeks. In the Relief Society Department, there were representatives from Canada, Idaho, Wyoming, Utah, Arizona, and Mexico. In this group were eight Relief Society stake presidents, five stake counsellors, eight stake secretaries, one stake treasurer, twenty-nine stake board members, four ward presidents, three ward secretaries, one ward chorister, one religion class supervisor, two Relief Society teachers, and six members. Among them were: one great grandmother, sixteen grandmothers, forty-three mothers, and ten unmarried members. There were sixteen between the age of twenty and thirty;  sixteen between thirty and forty;  twenty between forty and fifty;  thirteen between fifty and sixty, and three over sixty years of age. The course in charities and relief was given under the supervision of the Social Advisory Committee of the Church. It was under the direct charge of the General Board of Relief Society;  with Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary of the Relief Society, and Mrs. Annie D. Palmer, second counsellor in the Utah stake Relief Society, and secretary of the Community Welfare Department of the Utah stake Relief Society, acting as class teachers. The course in sociology was given by Professor John C. Swenson, of the Brigham Young University. Mrs. Inez Knight Allen, president of Utah stake Relief Society, gave lectures and discussed practical relief methods that have been worked out in her stake. The object of the course was to increase the general efficiency of family work in the Relief Society with a special view of broadening and improving the charity work of this great organization. The course consisted of: Sociology, in which the fundamentals of family life were discussed, Professor Swenson;  Brief History of Charity Work;  Modern Methods of Family Rehabilitation, including a study of Normal Family Life, the Unstable Family, and definite methods of approach and procedure in family work;  a seminar, in which specific family problems were discussed;  literature of family social work in which the regularly required reading was reported and discussed;  special lecture course, including subjects related to family and community life, and the best means of overcoming existing social difficulties. These lectures were given by prominent lecturers and specialists. Visits to several institutions in the state were made by the entire class, for the purpose of studying problems of feeble mindedness, insanity, delinquency, dependency, and infirmity, with their causes and treatment. At each of these institutions lectures were given, as follows: State Industrial School, Ogden, Supt. E. S. Hinckley;  State Mental Hospital, Provo, Dr. Hyde, superintendent;  Community Clinic, Salt Lake City, Mrs. Avery;  Neighborhood House, Salt Lake City, Miss Ellen Taylor;  Salt Lake County Infirmary and Hospital, Supt. Orson Allen. A special feature of this course was the series of lectures by Edward T. Devine, of New York, who is one of the greatest American authorities on social service work. His book, "Normal Life," had been a part of the required reading, and his visit to the class room gave the personal touch that emphasized and vitalized its discussions. Toward the close of the term, part of a day was set aside for special chapel exercises, when the general authorities of the Church, including the members of all of the gen
eral boards, were special guests of the B. Y. U. Summer School. Three members from each of the special groups called to take courses, were asked to give two-minute speeches on what the work had meant to them. Mrs. Bessie G. Hale, of Boise stake, Mrs. Ruth Hilton of Blackfoot stake, and Mrs. Inez H. Lee of St. Joseph stake, very ably represented the Relief Society class, giving in a few words, what to each of them were the important features of the summer's work. The Utah stake Relief Society gave a delightful social and lawn party in honor of the Relief Society class, at the beautiful home of Mr. and Mrs. Jesse Knight. The home, with the spacious lawn, had been tendered for the purpose, and the members of the class were delighted with the privilege of meeting Brother and Sister Knight, and of spending an evening in their attractive home. The teachers of the course, with the Utah stake board, arranged for an afternoon's outing for the class at Spring Dell, in Provo canyon, where a visit was made to the Y. L. M. I. A. Summer Camp for girls, and to the attractive canyon homes of President and Mrs. George H. Brimhall, Mr. and Mrs. Jesse Knight, and Mr. and Mrs. Lester Mangum, which had been thrown open to them. Supper was served on the grass plot at Spring Dell. At the close of the course, the members of the Relief Society class presented their teachers with beautifully bound books of poems, Mrs. Sarah A. Farr, the senior member of the class, making the presentation speech. At the request of Superintendent Adam Bennion, committees were selected from students of each of the special courses. Relief and Charities, Recreation Leadership, and Teacher Training, to make recommendations with regard to how the work given at the summer school, might be carried back to the respective stakes and wards. Mrs. Laura J. Adamson, president of Blaine stake, was chosen chairman of the Relief Society committee on recommendations. With the exception of two or three who entered the class late, all of those registered passed the examination successfully, and the members of the class who asked to be considered for college credit, were successful in receiving credit to the amount of six hours on a regular college course. Stakes were represented as follows: Alberta, Annia D. Snow;  Alpine, Mary Cooper, Elizabeth J. Durrant;  Bannock, Myrtle McGregor;  Bear Lake, Ada Mathews;  Bear River, Delia Marriott;  Beaver, Elizabeth Mumford;  Benson, Miss Rae Miles;  Big Horn, Alice Wardell;  Bingham, Exie Soelberg;  Blackfoot, Ruth Hillam;  Blaine, Laura J. Adamson;  Boise, 
 Bessie Hale;  Box Elder, Ellen B. Valentine;  Burley, M. E. McKibben;  Carbon, Mary E. Pace;  Cassia, Fanny Garringe;  Cottonwood, Rachel Shepherd;  Curlew, Inez R, Haws;  Deseret, Alice L. Gardner;  Duchesne, Lucreatia M. Evans;  Emery, Leva Luke;  Ensign, Cecelia Barker;  Fremont, Ada H. Walker;  Granite, Agnes M. Bolto;  Hyrum, Lovisa Allen;  Idaho, Clover M. Kelly;  Jordon, Connie Lovett;  Juab, Unity Chappell;  Juarez, Maggie I. Bently;  Malad, Martha S. Holbrook;  Maricopa, Hazel D. Vance, Emma Rollins;  Montpelier, Agnes Pearce;  Morgan, Daisy Crouch;  Nebo, Ada K. Jackman;  North Davis, Cecil Harris;  North Sanpete, Ellis Coombs;  North Weber, O. M. Drumiler;  Ogden, Lucile Foulger;  Oneida, Alveretta Engar;  Pioneer, Mrs. Mamie Forbes;  Pocatello, Maria Hyde;  Portneuf, Sarah A. Farr;  Rigby, Mary A. Nelson;  Salt Lake, Elizabeth C. Williams;  San Juan, Margaret Perkins;  San Luis, Martha Haskell;  Sevier, Loretta Robinson;  Shelley, Minda M. Cutler;  Snowflake, Thalia Kartchner;  South Davis, Rose J. Knowlton;  South Sanpete, Sarah Tooth;  Star Valley, Gladys B. Gardner;  St. George, Josephine Miles;  St. Johns, Joyce Udall;  St. Joseph, Inez H, Lee;  Summit, Margaret E. Pack;  Teton, Hannah G. Hegstead;  Tintic, Zina Fuller;  Twin Falls, Ann Roberts;  Uintah, Zina Searle;  Utah, Henrietta Smart, Mrs. George E. Whitehead Wasatch, ;  Lily L. Duke;  Wayne, Tirza Hansen;  Weber, Agnes H. Stevens;  Woodruff, Violet Gerard.