[Vol7 | August 1920 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Genealogy | Title: Minutes of Genealogical Convention, Lesson Work Suggestions]

Guide Lesson Suggestions Minutes of Genealogical Convention Relief Society Genealogical Convention held April 7, 1920, in Church Office Building. Singing, "Come Let Us Anew," prayer by Sister Kimball of the St. Joseph's stake;  singing, "High on the Mountain Top." Address of welcome was made by Counsellor Clarissa S. Williams, of the General Board, who repeated the remaining verses of the last hymn which 
 was left unsung-. "My friends," she continued, "I didn't know I was on the program, as the committee failed to notify me, but the words I have read will furnish enough of a subject. We have met to talk about the work for the dead. It seems as if my mission in the Relief Society is to attend to the living, but I am interested in the word for the dead. Sister Gates gives me the honor of suggesting that each woman in the Relief Society should do the work for one individual each year. On this Annual day, the Salt Lake stakes united in giving a benefit to the members of the General Board. I think there were twenty-three members of the General Board present, and the other two were away. We each had the privilege of getting out ten names. Two hundred and eleven people were worked for on March 16, last. I had the honor of having fifty on my own list done, as several of the board gave me the privilege offered them. We prized it as one of the greatest gifts you could have given us. We appreciate your presence here this morning, and I pray that the sisters will be inspired with a love for this work." Sister Emma J. Walkley, of Liberty stake, spoke on the subject, "How to arrange and carry forward successfully a temple benefit for a stake board, or for some special purpose." She reported that every Friday afternoon Liberty stake takes one hundred thirty-five people to the temple. The eleven wards of our stake each have the privilege of furnishing twenty-five names. In speaking about the arrangements for a benefit I would say: The first thing to do is to go to the temple in a body and to be sure and maintain order. If it is for a benefit, the preparatory lists are important and should be closely scanned before handed in, the leaders should get there in time to examine them carefully and, if necessary, make corrections before going on. Sometimes we also write out the names of the dead on the little cards, thus helping to prevent crowding;  and then one of us goes and checks up with the recorder. We also try to get the men to accompany us. We had one hundred eighteen men and one hundred seventy sisters the last time we went. Of course, some had to wait for next session. I was told that when the Salt Lake Genealogical class gave a testimonial recently for the General Board, that the result was one of the most beautiful companies that was ever seen in the temple. It was so orderly and the clothes were so beautiful and white. We had the lists sent in a few days before we went. Our lists were gone over by a committee. We had a reception committee to show the people where to go to take off wraps, etc. Some had not been to the temple GUIDE LESSONS AND SUGGESTIONS 489 since they were married. Each stake kept separate lists and all were called up in their order. Another important thing is our mental attitude. The sacred feeling we should have when we go in those beautiful halls. When we go for others it is just as necessary to maintain the proper attitude as when we go for ourselves. Let the people understand it is no visiting place. We have been very successful in teaching our stakes in genealogy. We endeavor to create a desire in the people to search for their own individual record, and if you could only hear them express their feelings! One of the brethren had not been to the temple for a number of years. We induced him to make the start and he bore testimony that he had continued going ever since and had no desire to stop. Sister Robert-s, of Lehi. Alpine stake, said: "Temple excursions in our stake began in June, 1914. We organized by appointing a stake leader with aids in the wards. We had four hundred seventy-five go the first time, two hundred seventy-five the next time, and after that we were told to limit it to two hundred fifty. We sold a number of temple record books, and then we decided to have an excursion once in three months. Our Genealogical Society has a stake representative but the Relief Society has taken full charge of everything. We sent 2,200 baptisms to Manti with our donation of $75. We have redeemed 3,500 in the Salt Lake temple and our donations range from $50 to $100. We have been highly complimented for our preparation and order in the temple. Our organization consists of three districts with a district chairman over these districts;  the ward committee secure and prepare the names of those going on the excursion. We only have a committee of one from the ward. This one makes two lists, one for charity and one for individual lists;  she hands the list to the district chairman and then collects the donation, so each ward knows how much is donated by the ward;  then the ward chairman hands this to the district chairman and it is handed to the temple clerk in bulk, and saves much time and confusion. Preparation means half of it. We have had no rates on the railroad this last two years, but they give us a special train. We are now doing much of our traveling in autos. The people do not wait to be asked, but they are given the opportunity through our announcements to report to the chairman even two months before the excursion. We have no trouble getting our company of two hundred to which we are limited. When one district does not make up their number, we let another district fill in. The railroad doesn't allow a rebate. The chief recorder. Bishop 
 Christensen, furnishes us the blanks and tags ahead of time and this saves work for the recorders, and we can keep much better order. The district chairman compiles the records. When we have a man and wife who wishes to do so we try and attend to sealings. We address to all persons an envelope with name and information inclosed and when they come to the temple, all they have to do is to give their recommend and the recorders check up from the list. We know our own people and group them together to attend to their sealings. The charity names are gathered from poor and old people;  names for friends and neighbors are all handed to our committee and the names of the proxy is written as well as the name of the dead. We try to find those who are willing to hire work done to help our poor people to go and then we get the money and hire widows to do that work, thus enabling them to help pay their way. We try to induce young couples to buy a record book and start it right. We entertained the temple workers and presiding authorities a year ago and they enjoyed it and we appreciated their company. "Preparing lesson for use," by Vincy R. Barker, of Weber stake, illustrated by charts. The speaker said: "In 1910-11, Sister Lynch, who was sent to us by Sister Susa Young Gates, came up and gave us some lessons. At first we did not have a definite aim, but we adopted the idea that we were to save souls. Then we applied the plan to ourselves. It is within our plan each month to read a paper, and to seek by prayer for inspiration;  adapt the work to the capacity of the workers and then lead them on step by step. The aim should be definitely fixed;  and let all unite till the objective is reached. We have solved some of our difficulties with the genealogical representatives and Relief Society workers. Now we are co-operating with the brethren. Whatever is given by us must first be presented to our stake presidency;  we submit our plans to them before we launch them at all. The priesthood handles the excursions and, of course, we are willing to co-operate with them. In 1915, we got 1,291 families to give us their family records for a stake record. We had a special purpose in view and now we are ready to start going into the homes again. We have over eight hundred families yet to get. We aim to do the work of the direct lines first and have all the sealings done, and then do the side lines after. "Genealogy in Missions" was treated by Sister Donette S. Kessler. "Rules and lessons taught here at home have to be adapted to the locality in which you are working. They are interested in the subject of genealogy in the missions GUIDE LESSONS AND SUGGESTIONS 491 and the thought of having the records made should receive attention, and be written down. We teach the Saints abroad that our personal knowledge of dates are put down and then ask them to get as much as they can get while their relatives are living;  then write letters and take care of them because they are sacred. In the east, the Saints are near the great libraries and they should get such information as they can. In New York we spent a day with the sisters showing them how to go to work. After the information is received we told them to put it in proper shape. When work is to be taken up, first write to the Genealogical Library and find who is working on that line, so as to avoid duplication. Sister Elizabeth McCune felt sure that Sister Williams and the members of the General Board were pleased with the great work the Relief Society are doing. This crowd shows the interest the sisters, and the people generally, are taking in genealogy. Sister Gates feels that her life was spared for this genealogical work. In contrast to this crowded room, my thought turned to the first meeting we held in the Lion House, in 1905. Sister Gates, myself and my father (Brother Claridge), were the only ones there. And my father said he felt like giving us both a blessing for he was a patriarch, and he did give us a wonderful blessing. Speaking of Sister Williams' suggestion for an annual day in the temple, that went through me like electricity. That was given to her by our heavenly Father;  that was inspiration. If the sisters would all follow that, the temples could not hold them. It is one of the greatest means of filling our temples. The spirit of Elijah is poured out upon the people. If you live a long ways from the temple, get a membership in the society and have them get your names and send money to pay for this work. I remember when this work was first given to the Relief Society. We want to honor the priesthood. We are willing to do the work and give others the credit, if they want it. We don't care. May we each do our work faithfully and well, I ask in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen. Singing, "Doxology." Benediction, Sister Morrison. Cecilia S. Barker, Secretary. Amusements in Pioneer Days (From the "Millennial Star," 1852) Speech of His Excellency Brigham Young, Governor of Utah. Delivered at the legislative festival, held in the territorial house, Great Salt Lake City, March 4. With joy and delight I look upon you, brethren and sisters, I feel to render all praise, thanks, and adoration to our Father and God, that my heart is capable of rendering;  and with all the affections, together with all the talent bestowed upon me, I feel to serve, praise, adore, and acknowledge the Lord our God. Let our minds sing for joy, and let life diffuse itself into every avenue of the body;  for the object of our meeting is for its exercise, for its good. This party was gotten up by the members of the legislature, to rest their minds, to convene in a social capacity, and enjoy the society of each other, with their families, and to give renewed activity and energy, which will invigorate and strengthen them in the discharge of the arduous duties devolving upon them. With regard to these feelings prevailing in our midst this evening, as well as the correctness of these principles, every man and woman must be their own judge. Our present situation, and the enjoyments of this evening, will become subjects of pleasant and agreeable reflection, when we shall be separated from one another. Some of these, my brethren, may be absent in foreign lands;  our sisters may be separated from this community, and go to the right, and to the left;  then these moments of festive joy will be remembered with pleasing emotions, and cherished in fond memory in after years. Again, when we meet in this capacity, it is good for our minds to be refreshed on this wise a little, for the reason, as you are all aware, that we are naturally forgetful;  and it is according to the frailties of human nature to decline and falter in our feelings at the varied, besetting, enticing, and almost overwhelming temptations that are abroad in the world, and with which the people, especially those of the household of faith, have to contend. Our former life, its anxieties, and enjoyments are apt to be forgotten. This is our experience;  if we should suffer ourselves to spend our time, day after day, and week after week, as we are today, how long would it be before we would forget the Lord? It would not be long;  if we continued in the exercise GUIDE LESSONS AND SUGGESTIONS 493 ing of the body without reflection, this company would soon think it is no matter about praying, or asking the Lord about anything. We have enjoyed ourselves heretofore, and all has been peace, quietness, and good order;  but how long would it remain so? How long would it be before we would become careless, if we remembered not the Lord? For this reason I say on every such occasion, it is right, reasonable, and necessary, that every heart be directed to the Lord. When we have sufficient recreation for our good, let that suffice. It is all right;  then let our minds labor instead of our bodies;  and in all our exercises of body and mind, it is good to remember the Lord. If it cannot be so, but otherwise, Ido not wish to see another party while I live. If I could not enjoy the Spirit of the Lord in this capacity with you this evening, and feel the power of God to rest upon me, I should cease from all such indulgence. From this time, never let us permit ourselves to go one step beyond that which the Lord will own and bless. But I pause here, and for this reason: I want it distinctly understood, that fiddling and dancing are no part of our worship. The question may be asked, what is it for, then? I answer, that the body may keep pace with the mind. My mind labors like a man logging all the time;  and this is the reason why I am fond of these pastimes;  they give me a privilege to throw everything off, to shake myself, that my body may exercise and my mind rest. What for? To get strength, and be renewed, and quickened, and enlivened, and animated, so that my mind may not wear out. Experience tells us that the most of the inhabitants of the earth wear out their bodies without wearing their minds at all, through the sufferings they endure from hard labor, with distress, poverty, and want. While on the other hand, a great portion of mankind wear out their bodies without laboring, only in anxiety. But when men are brought to labor entirely in the field of intelligence, there are few minds to be found possessing strength enough to bear all things;  and the mind becomes overcharged, and when this is the case, it begins to wear upon the body, which will sink for want of the proper exercise. This is the reason why I believe in, and practice what I do. The question might be asked, Why not go into the canyons, and get out wood, which would be good exercise enough? If you would know, come up to my house, you will soon find out. Were I to go to the canyons, the whole camp in Israel would follow me there;  and they would not be there long before they would say, "Come, Brother Brigham, I will chop this wood." How many 
 scores of times I have undertaken to work, since I came into this ministry;  scores and hundreds of times, when my calling in the kingdom of God was less than it is now, have I endeavored to set myself to work, but seldom could have a chance to do so more than five minutes;  some one would come along, "Give me the hoe. Brother Brigham;  I want to talk with you," and so stop me;  and no sooner stops me than he stops also. I have given it up;  I do not intend to work any more at manual labor. I do not wrestle, or play ball;  all the exercise I do get is to dance a little;  while my counsel room is from my office to this room, and from this room to my house again, into my sitting room, dining room, etc. You will see the time, you will know what my labor is. I wish this community to consider that I have feelings of a very acute nature. There is not a man or a woman, Saint or sinner, it mattered not, that feels injured, and lays their complaints before me, but what it rests upon my feelings;  but my faith is unyielding, and tend to keep it so, as much as I can;  my feelings sympathize so with the injured, that I am grieved, and distressed, and my head aches, and large drops of cold sweat sit upon my brow;  no man or woman knows anything about my feelings, and I do not want them to know, for I calculate to kick off all from my heels that I cannot carry. I will carry all I should;  but there is not a person in this community that can bring to mind or mention the time when I ever exhibited one particle of sorrow or trouble to them. I calculate to carry sorrows just as long as I live upon this earth;  and when I go to the grave, I expect them all to go there, and sleep in eternal silence. May God grant that the blessings, favors, mercies, and kindness of our Father in heaven, may bring us to a sense of the obligation we owe to him, and cheer us, and cause joy and tranquility to reign in this community, that every heart may be bound up in the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, without having to feel the rod again. What is the use of it, when mercy and kindness are lavished upon the people of God, to see them falter in their faith;  to see them grow cold towards the Lord their God;  to see them slacken their pace, — is it not grievous? Just look at it. Suppose you had all the good gifts to bestow upon your children that heart could wish, and you lavish them out;  but the more you give, the more slothful they become;  how would you feel? Just apply this to yourselves;  I know how I should feel. When I bring my mind to bear upon this subject, and see what the Lord has done for me, and for this people, and think that I should GUIDE LESSONS AND SUGGESTIONS 495 become remis in my duty, so. that the Lord should have need to chasten me again, it seems, on the first reflection, that I ought to be damned. When I look at myself before the Lord, and see what he has called me to, and what he has called my brethren and sisters to;  how he has bestowed blessings upon us, and heaped them up until there is not room to receive them, and I should want to go to the gold mines, and return again here to speculate upon the Saints, and should be guilty of complaining all the time, it seems, if I were to do this, the Lord would damn me. I know you feel as I do upon this subject. When you take this into consideration, your serious reflections having place in your heart, you feel as I do: for heaven's sake, for your own sakes, and for the sake of Him who died for us, never let us falter in our duty. While we live, it is our duty to love the Lord with all our strength, and with all our souls. This is our duty first and foremost;  we ought to love Him better than our wives, children, brethren, and sisters, and all things besides. Is this our duty? Verily, yes. Let the heart love God, and serve Him, without any division of feeling;  never suflFer it to wander to the right, or to the left, for one moment. If these were the feelings of this people, the Lord would lift up our hands, exalt our hearts, and cause us to walk in his almighty strength;  so that the devil and his imps would never have power to bring another affliction upon us;  never, no, never. Therefore, love the Lord;  keep his commandments; cleave to the God of Israel;  this is my exhortation all the time. And what is the next duty? Love your neighbor as yourself;  do unto others as you would that others should do unto you;  cease your contention, and bad feelings, your evil speaking, and evil doing. As I observed here not long since, I consider it is a disgrace to the community, and in the eyes of the Lord, and of angels, and in the eyes of the prophets and revelators, that have ever lived upon the earth, when a community will descend to the low, degraded state of contention with each other;  this little bickering, jarring, fault-finding, somebody's abused me. Why do you not say. If you have a mind to abuse, abuse away! Suppose every heart should say. If my neighbor does wrong to me, I will not complain;  the Lord will take care of him. Let every heart be firm, and every one say, I will never contend any more with a man for property;  I will not be cruel to my fellow creature;  but I will do all the good I can, and as little evil as possible. Now, where would be the wrong of taking this course? This is the way 
 to approximate toward a celestial state. A community cannot be produced upon all the face of the earth that presents a celestial aspect like this. If we continue to be faithful and prayerful, and strive continually to resist every evil, we shall approximate more and more towards that celestial kingdom, where there is an eternal inheritance, and an unsullied glory. And if we should look back upon ourselves, when we were doing evil to each other, should we not do so with regret and shame — should we not look upon our past mortal lives with anguish and disgust? I wish men would look upon that eternity which is before them. In the great morning of the resurrection, with what grief would they look upon their little trifling affairs of this probation;  you would say. Oh! do not mention it. for it is a source of mortification to me to think that I ever should be guilty of doing wrong, or of neglecting to do good to my fellow men, even if they have abused me! Oh! how would it appear if you understood the heart of the Lord, and understood the heart and faithfulness of those in the celestial kingdom. As good as we are, we shall not want to look upon our past actions;  we shall say, Oh! do not mention it, but let it sleep;  I never want that to be resurrected, but let it die in the grave, and sleep an eternal sleep. Brethren and sisters, I hope and pray our evils may never rise with us. I can say to you with all my heart, and with all my soul, and not only to this company, but to all the Saints throughout the world. May the heavens bless you;  the Lord Almighty blesses you;  my soul blesses you;  how my soul loves you;  may angels bless you, guard, and preserve you, and may all the heavenly hosts arrayed in all their panoply of power be engaged for your exaltation. If we cultivate the principle of unshaken confidence in one another, our joy will be full. What does it prove? It proves that we are fast advancing, and approximating towards that degree of light, knowledge and glory, and all the principles that pertain to the everlasting gospel, and that we are actually in the favor of the Lord. We need not bring any proofs of that, for devils never kick and cuff their own, that's certain. As I used to say fifteen years ago, when I was out preaching, and the people would get alarmed, when the devil would get mad, they would say to me, "Oh, dear sir, what is the matter? I am afraid we are all going to be killed, for all hell is boiling over." My answer was, "Thank God, the devil has not forsaken us yet." Will he not sustain his own kingdom? When you see all the powers of the evil one combined against a community, you may know that is Christ's kingdom. Everything has proved that this is God's kingdom, and I need not say nothing more about these two powers.