[Vol47 | October 1960 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Fiction | Title: My | Author: Kingsbury]
[My Third Grandma — Part II — Butcher Knife Ilene H. Kingsbury]

And now it was Christmas Eve, and she had arrived at Mona's house with three small boxes whose only glory was in their silver wrappings. They found the rooms bursting with friends and relatives. Jovial Uncle Chris was in the dining room ladling out hot punch from behind a table covered with holiday goodies. Mark and Teddy immediately wiggled through to the front ranks. Jennifer sat down to worship: in front of the huge Christmas tree with its pile of gaily wrapped gifts underneath. Laurie greeted a few friends and then went out to see that her young sons stayed somewhere within the limits of propriety. She met Elise on the way. "No need to ask the whereabouts of Mike and Tim," she commented. 651 "Not with all that food on the table. Is your husband in there also?" "Greg? No. He isn't celebrating with us today," answered Elise. "He stayed at the office. He wants to leave for Chicago tomorrow afternoon. He'll be gone a week. 'That means I'm stuck home all alone for the holidays." Laurie slipped an arm through that of her sister-in-law. "Take it easy, she smiled. "Maybe the Christmas Spirit will bring you both a change of heart. Let's go in and get something to eat before our sons lay the board waste." A couple of hours and many cakes later, Vance said, "I think we'd better take off. Let's have a bit of peace at home for the rest of the evening." "All right," Laurie agreed reluctantly. She walked over and stood by the tree. Beneath was a pile of gifts of such elegance that the wrappings alone had probably cost more than her entire Christmas. "I can't do it," she told herself with finality. "I simply can't. Nothing at all would be better than this silly makeshift." She turned resolutely away, relieved that the decision had finally been made. Halfway to the door she met Elise and asked, "Shall we drop in at your house?" "No, sorry, but I'm not going home. Not until I have to," she replied through tight lips. She looked so desperately unhappy that Laurie had to do something. Impulsively she opened her bag and drew out a box. "This is our gift to you," she said. "There isn't much to it — except our love." "Thank you," said Elise simply. 652 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1960 Laurie turned back to the tree, dropped the box with Mona's name on it and fied out to the car. Chris followed with an armload of packages. "I picked yours out myself," he confided to 'Teddy. Althea came panting after him. "Drop me off at the apartment, will you please? 'Then you can pick up your gifts at the same time." When they stopped, Vance helped his sister out of the car, then held out his hand for the last of the silver boxes. After they were home again with the children settled for the night, Laurie asked, "Isn't it strange? For once I don't envy any of your Sisters the least bit. And I ought to be practically green." "Not so strange,' replied Vance. "You have all the things that really count, including." "You. I know. Scoot over to the neighbors and get the toys. 'Those scalawags will be up again before the crack of dawn." HRISTMAS morning was as gay as any they had ever known. The children were delighted with their toys and were sure that their dad's monkey was the best gift he had ever received. Althea called just after breakfast. "Laurie, dear, are you sure that you would be willing to spend an hour with me every week? I just can't believe it!" Her voice was that of a child who had just been given the moon. "Of course I'm sure," answered Laurie over the lump in her throat. She hadn't realized how terribly lonely Althea had been. "We'll start any day you say." It was almost noon, and she had just finished stuffing a very small turkey, when Elise called. "Did you mean what you said about taking the boys?" Her voice was short, almost breathless. "Why, of course I meant it. Any time you like." "Today?" Laurie laughed. "Certainly today, if you wish." "I've decided to go with Greg on this trip, if he'll take me. Maybe if we have a week, we can start to work things out. I couldn't ask anyone else to take them on Christmas Day. I wouldn't have dreamed of asking you, except." "Bring them along," Laurie broke in. "We'll love to have them for a week or as long as you want. And good luck, darling." "Thanks. I'm going to do my best. And if things go better, it may be because of you." "And a twenty-five dollar Christmas," added Laurie gaily. She went back to the turkey and put it into the roasting pan. It seemed to have grown. It really looked quite nice and plump. She was sure there would be plenty for seven.. Solace Tletta D. Reid Mother Nature washed the parched earth, last night, With a heaven-sent healing Tain. My tears washed the bitterness from my soul. I, too, have found peace again. LAKE COEUR D'ALENE, IDAHO wii hte rglo v Leslie Savage Clark Oh, cup your hands around this hour To hold its candle glow Of quietness — this fragrant dusk, With a young moon hanging low. Where, traced against its silver arc, Are hushed and homing wings That seek the brushwood thicket where A cricket sings. Oh, hold it close, this hour we share, So soon it disappears, And yet, its halo long shall fall Across the years. Page 653 Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1900 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or ALL NATIONS" CURRENT EVENTS: In South Africa the Boer situation continues to be a vexed question. Kruger is still defiant and declares that the war will last a long time vet. There can be no doubt but that England will be victorious in the end. The assassination of King Humbert of Italy by an anarchist, is one of the sad events of the month. His son, Victor Emanuel III, in order to avoid riots and disorder, immediately ascended the throne.... The Paris Exposition still continues to draw large crowds, as many as half a million were reported to be in attendance in one day. The campaign for the election of a president of the United States, and also local officers, has just commenced. —Ella W. Hyde THE DOMESTIC SCIENCE CLASS: One of the necessities of all cities, and especially Salt Lake, is a School of Domestic Science... For these young girls who are growing up and know not "when the hour cometh" that they may be called upon to preside in the kitchen.... This school of ours was held in the Normal school building of the University and was a success and exceeded our most sanguine expectations. It was started without a cent of money but with the proverbial generosity of the Salt Lake people a stove, dishes, cooking utensils, etc. Were donated.... The cooking department was presided over by Miss Emily Cannon, a graduate of the Boston School of Cooking. The art of housewifery was taught by Miss Edna May Davis, a thoroughly competent instructress. In the sewing room Miss Mary S. Smith, a graduate of the Pratt Institute, N. Y., taught the girls the different stitches, hemming, felling, patching, darning, etc., and impressed upon them that "a stitch in time saves nine." —News Note—L. M. R. ACROSS THE YEARS Across the years I hear your loving voice, Urging me always to some higher aim, When I have won I know that you rejoice; When I have failed you grieve but do not blame. If in my humble way some good I do, I owe it to those other years and you. —Jennie Noonan Wheless RELIEF SOCIETY IN BANNOCK STAKE (IDAHO): The Stake presidency of the Relief Society of Bannock Stake, President Mary A. Call, Counselors Sarah M. Call and Rosa B. Knowles, and Secretary Hannah C. Hatch, have made their annual visit through the Stake, their starting point being the Lund Ward.... The next two wards visited were Thatcher and Cleveland.... We held meetings in both wards and gave some good instructions to the attending sisters.... The next place visited was Trout Creek where we lunched with President Mary Jensen, then held meeting.... The next place was Grace. We traveled late to get there, in wind and dust. Soda Springs was the next place visited, where we enjoyed the delightful soda water... We had a good meeting.... The last meeting was held at Chesterfield.... The Stake presidency gave some good instructions... And thought the sisters were doing a good work in this part of the Lord's vineyard. —Hannah C. Hatch, Sec. Page 654 HE Honorable Masa (Mrs. Fukuzo) Nakayama was named Japanese Minister of Welfare in ceremonies at the Imperial Palace, July 19, installing the new Prime Minister Hayato Ikeda and _ his cabinet. Mrs. Nakayama is a graduate of Ohio Wesleyan University, Delaware, Ohio, and a member of the Japanese branch of UNESCO. Her hobby is flower arrangements, and she has the honorary title of Graduate Flower Arranger. She has an honorary American degree of Doctor of Laws, and is indeed well fitted to become Japan's first woman cabinet minister. Mrs. Nakayama is sixty-nine years old. UTH ADDISON is the first woman to achieve the equivalent of deputv minister's rank in the Canadian government. She is one of three Civil Service Commissioners who formulate and direct the policies pertaining to 140,000 government employees. Her colleagues say that "she is effective, but every inch a lady." ARA SABIN, Bountiful, Utah, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, has collected a large number of her poems into a volume entitled "So Near My Heart," recently published by Bookcraft, Salt Lake City, Utah.