[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: PIONEER PARK. | Author: Unknown]

PIONEER PARK.

It is gratifying to the old settlers in this
city to have had the historic Pioneer Square
thrown open to the public, on Pioneer day
of this year, as a place for recreation and
restfulness, to those who choose to take ad-
vantage of it, but it will at present be most
beneficial to the people in that vicinity.
The park was really dedicated July 24,
1898, but there have been so many opposing
schemes, and attempts to use it for financial
benefit that it seemed almost as if the dedi-
cation had been set aside, or lost sight of, in
the pressure brought about to make it a
depot or thoroughfare of some sort.
It is ardently hoped and desired by those
who value the historic points of interest
that this pioneer park may be made beauti-
ful, and that something may be erected
there to tell the story of this famous spot
of earth, to the children of the future, a
story of the struggles of the pioneers who
founded Utah.
Many of the descendants of the men and
women who came to the Great Salt Lake in
those early days do not in the least realize
what their parents endured in settling this
desert land. If there is one spot that will
mark the heroism and strength of character
of that valiant band of men and women
who spent the first winter in the Fort, it
ought to be made beautiful and attractive, a
place of interest. There are but few people
today who lived in the Fort during that
eventful period and in a few years more
there will not be any, and it would be
lamentable not to leave that one square as
a memento of the time and the events that
transpired then that were of such a marvel-
ous nature.
The story of the thrilling account of the
gulls is one that can never fail to show the
miraculous intervention of Providence and
the mighty faith of the heroic band. The
Harvest Home on August 10, 1848, as de-
scribed in story by our sisters who partici-
pated therein, is worthy of being commem-
orated in song, to be set to music and
handed down to be sung by their posterity
to the latest generation of time.
The Daughters of the Pioneers, who are
collecting and preserving everything pos-
sible of that period, will, we trust, some of
them, see that these things are made object
lessons for the benefit of the people of the
State. They have already planned much
work creditable to the cause, but if some-
thing really tangible could be erected on
the memorable square, if it was only a
fountain or a monument to these pioneer
women whose names we venerate, or to the

[Column 2]
women who lived within the Fort before
the city was laid out and the homes built,
it would be an achievement worthy the
daughters of that noble sisterhood. Some
permanent structure that would be useful
as well as ornamental and historical,
that could be accomplished by the contri-
butions of a large number of the real des-
cendants of the pioneers, not alone of ’47,
but to the limit stated in their Constitution.
This is merely a thought, but could it be
made a practical matter of fact it would
give the Daughters of the Pioneers a great-
er prestige than anything the writer can
think of, because it would stand as a monu-
ment to perpetuate the fortitude and endur-
ance of these wise and sagacious women
who were willing to make the sacrifice of
leaving their homes, their worldy sur-
roundings, everything near and dear, for
the sake of their religion, which was more
to them than life itself.
How the Lord has blessed and prospered
them, and the land for their sake, and how
wonderful in the eyes of all nations has
been the transformation from the desert to
the beautiful cities, towns and villages,
farms, orchards and gardens, none know so
well as those who came in that early time
and lived among the sage brush in the alkali
desert.


[column 1]
