[WomansExponent | Vol32 | 1903 | July | Issue: 2 | Title: Pope Leo XIII | Author: Unknown]

	POPE LEO XIII.

	The last few days previous to the death
of the Pope newspapers were full of ac-
counts concerning the Pope’s condition,
but now he has gone, and the great struggle
for life which he fought so courageously is
over, and we hear on all sides encomiums
of praise and commendation of his long
and eventful career of usefulness and per-
severing habits, of industry and labor for
the good of the church in which he de-
voutly believed, and for which he would
make any sacrifice possible, that it might
obtain strength and influence in and for the
world of mankind.
	There can be no doubt of his superiority
of ability and intellect and he had the
grandest opportunities possible to any man
—let him be king or potentate.
	What he has written would fill volumes,
would be a library in itself. It is doubtful
if there will ever be another pontiff so cele-
brated and so greatly beloved and honored.
He was certainly one of the greatest and
grandest men of the nineteenth century.
History must record with gratitude and
pride the splendid character and attain-
ments of this hero of the Catholic Church,
who has labored to elevate mankind, to
bless humanity, to bring peace to the world.
How strong he was in the right as he
viewed it, how valiant for righteousness!
How beautifully and unostentatiously he
modified the wrongs he grieved to see per-
petrated! Surely the world is better for
such a man. Lowell says:

“Great truths are portions of the soul of man; 
Great souls are portions of eternity.”

	He will be sincerely mourned although
he had far outlived his contemporaries.
	Great men like him are indeed models
for nations. His vast storehouse of learn-
ing was used for the benefit of the people
in whose interest and for whose advance-
ment he sought diligently.
	Pope Leo made friends by his kindly
manner, his courteous bearing; he im-
pressed all whom he met with his strong

[column 2]
personality, though he lived the simple 
life of an ascetic. His power for actual
work was most extraordinary and aston-
ished all who were aware of what he really
accomplished. He had wonderful diplo-
ma tic and administrative ability, and was
therefore admirably fitted for the high posi-
tion he occupied so many years.
	Pope Leo was born March 2, 1810, at
Carpineto. His name was Joachim Vin-
cent Raphael Lodovico Pecci, he was the
son of Count Domenico Lodovico Pecci and
of Anna Prosperco Boazi, she was the
daughter of a noble Valscian family living
in the ancient city of Cora, a woman of ex-
traordinary ability and strength of char-
acter. She belonged to the Third Order
of St. Francis, an association founded to
bring men and women closer to the Church.
He was fairly nurtured in the heart of the
Catholic faith and accustomed to listen to
the story of the life of St. Francis Assissi as
related by his mother.
	After receiving many honors, in his
thirty-third year Gregory XVI appointed
him apostolic nuncio or papal ambassador
to the kingdom of Belgium. He soon
found favor with King Leopold and it was
at this time that he showed such wonderful
shrewdness and tact, particularly in deal-
ing with secret societies that were under-
mining the faith of the people. In this he
had the assistance of Queen Louise Maria,
who was a devout Catholic.
	His later life is better known, he was a
marvel in many respects, even to his clos-
est associates.
	Such men leave the impress of their
greatness upon the age. Now thousands
crowd to do him honor, to gaze upon his
features, but life is transitory and the great
and noble must perish as well as the poor
and humble.
	Pope Leo’s spirit took its flight at 4:04
p. m., July 20, in the Vatican at the re-
nowned city of Rome, Italy. The news
soon spread to all parts of the world. Great
ceremony followed and prayers and masses
and chants and requiems will be kept up
until all the rights pertaining to the death
of the head of the Roman Catholic Church
have been observed. It is very splendid
and imposing, and will make a deep im-
pression upon the minds of the populace
who are more or less influenced by symbols
and colors and parade, but when one con-
trasts it with the death and lack of cere-
mony of the blessed Savior of the world
one cannot help but think, “All is vanity.”
	The dear old Pope is at rest, it will not
and cannot concern him, it is the new order
of things since the days of Christ and his
Apostles Pope Leo’s rest is sweet after
the battle he so valiantly fought. The
music of the churches is sweet to the peo-
ple who mourn for him, but the celestial
music that floats through the realms of para-
dise far surpasses human voices, and the
prayers and benedictions he hears not,
though they may comfort those who still
toil on the earth searching for wisdom and
for truth.

“Strong to the end, a man of nerve, from out the
	strife he passed;
The grandest hour of all his life, was that of earth 
the last." 
	So true are these grand words of our own
poet, Whittier.
	And so are these:

“Beyond the poet’s sweet dream lives,
The eternal epic of the man."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


