EDITORIAL .   RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Susa Young Gates Business Manager Janette A. Hyde Assistant Manager Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. Vol. II. AUGUST, 1915. No. 8. Death Hath Her Victories. Two young soldiers of Christ, both girded with the armor of the true faith, whose feet were shod with the preparation of peace, and who set out valiantly to face the suns of yesterdays, have met the white angel of Mortal Change, and have triumphed. One was dauntless in his manly courage, and his fine quality of virile persistence. The other was notable for his patient association with daily sorrow and affliction. One chose the science of the physical issues of life and death for his purpose in life; the other sought his daily bread in easy avenues, lest death might catch him unaware. Both lived and loved and wrought as youth may gallantly strive. And both were loved ? ah, how dearly they were loved. For both were very lovable. Each won his hosts of friends, for each deserved that much of life's sweet compensations. Pure, true, upright, brilliant, and able, these two were well born sons. Upon the lintels of their door-posts, both parents had cast the bitter hyssop dipped in the blood of their daily sacrifice. And, therefore, were they unafraid. When suddenly the door of death was opened, and the white angel of Change came forth, Gerald knew that angel well. He 
 had walked beside his noiseless feet, lo, these many days. Fearlessly, he had faced his daily grapple, and that high courage conceived by constant pain, borne uncomplainingly, had given him power to face his messenger in peace. David looked with startled, instant comprehension, for he, too, had often met this messenger in his work, unknowing who he was. On canyon ridge alone, or plunged in soundless depths of mountain's icy pools, that silent, wordless messenger had often beckoned, while David laughed along, with reckless ignorance of his nearness. And thus they met, the two young men and death, and earth was left behind. Come, parents, friends, we who knew them well, and we who knew them not: Gaze not upon the relentless door which closed upon their swift retreating forms. Turn from the silence and mystery of their yesterdays, to face the crowding dawn of today. Lift thine eyes to the hills, whence cometh help. Hear the throbbing melody of the morning lark, see the glory of the peaceful violet, and mark the dusty highway where plod the Lord's own halt and blind. Minister, smile, labor, sing. For so wrought they, both David and Gerald. Being vanquished, they have conquered; and we, too, must some day fight the good fight, and likewise conquer and be vanquished. Shall we all conquer by our courage, and triumph with our faith? Note. ? Dr. David B. Anderson and Gerald Anderson, whose funeral services were held on Sunday, June 27, 1915, were the promising sons of Elders Edward H. Anderson, Editor of the Era, and Nephi Anderson, Editor of the Genealogical Magazine. Both young men were faithful members of the Church, and both were loyally loved, and will be sadly missed by sorrowing parents and friends. The mantle of Charity all should wear, Regardless of color or size, For it never grows old as some things do, And is very becoming to me and you; 'Tis a gem we all should prize. Edith McClendon, Mesa, Arizona. Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Work and Business. First Week. Theology and Testimony. Second Week. Summer Health Lessons. Third Week. HYGIENE FOR THE WOMAN PAST FIFTY. HEALTH OF BODY. Diet. ? The diet of women past fifty is an important consideration, and should be weighed carefully by themselves and their friends. In the first place, after one has reached the age of forty-five or fifty, as a rule, the digestive powers are not as keen as they were, when youth gave zest and vitality to all nature's processes. In the second place, the body often takes on more flesh after that period, and less food should be eaten, as flesh soon becomes abnormal, which is unsafe, to say the least. The energy is diminished after fifty, and work and play are not indulged in so strenuously as before, while the digestion is slower and the blood more sluggish. Consequently, the diet should be carefully selected, and most carefully eaten. Most people past the age of fifty would better drop one meal and get along on two meals a day. Fruit and vegetables should form the staple articles of diet for both men and women who are past the prime of life. It is much better to eat a little meat once a day than to eat too much bread, sugar, butter, cheese, potatoes, cream, milk, and fat ? all of which are carbonaceous; and which fill the system with too much material of one kind. Fruit and vegetables should form the staple articles of diet. Each person has a physical idiosyncrasy peculiar to himself ? he may eat, or may not eat, certain articles of food, which are good and all right, in their place, for others. Pork is not good for anybody at any time, but, if it must be 
 eaten, let it be eaten in the morning. Beef and mutton are always nourishing and easy of digestion; and meat provides so much variety, both to the young and to the aged, that it should be eaten once a day, if there are no physical reasons for abstinence. Rice and cereals, for breakfast, or eggs and toast, with milk or a little cream, with fruit, makes a good enough breakfast for anyone at any time. One meat, two vegetables, and a light dessert is sufficient for dinner, after a hard day's work. Constipation, which might be called the American woman's universal disease, should be avoided by elderly women, like the plague. Faith, massage, and diet ? all these will help this trouble. Foods which tax the digestive organs, such as pork, baked beans, cheese, macaroni, rich pastry, pie, cake, fancy ice-cream, candy of all kinds, indeed all foods that are difficult of digestion, should be avoided by women when past the age of fifty. The most important rule to remember, is to observe regular habits. If you eat two meals a day, let them be eaten at a regular time each day. If three meals are partaken of, then let them be eaten at regular periods. Regularity and restraint are of more importance than the choice of foods. Some people are able to digest milk better after they pass the years of sixty, than when they were in young life, or middle-age. Milk is a good diet for the aged, if not partaken of in too great a quantity, or of too rich a quality. Milk should not be used as a drink at a meal, but should form a part of the meal, as it is a food. Eggs agree with some people, while others are unable to eat them. Let each woman find out what simple foods best agree with her, and then let her eat a light, nourishing diet, and observe regularity in the eating thereof, avoiding, above all things, excess in diet. Be sure and have variety: variety in the foods themselves, in the preparation of them, and in the serving of food. Go on the shady porch to serve breakfast or supper, or out under the trees. Always swat the fly. An occasional meal in a cafeteria provides "grandma" with an agreeable change. Clothing. ? The clothing of women past fifty should be light, warm, simple, modest, and above all things, without unnecessary restriction about the waist. Most elderly people dress too warmly, and yet, it should be remembered that the vital forces are lowered after fifty years, and more clothing is usually required, than is worn in earlier life. Baths. ? Women past fifty should bathe once or twice a week. Too frequent bathing is apt to weaken a woman, especially after the age of fifty. Strong women, who have taken daily cold baths all their lives, find that after reaching the age of fifty or sixty this delightful habit must be set aside. However, cleanliness is surely a part of our religion. Exquisite cleanliness. GUIDE LESSONS. 379 sweetness, and light, belong to the aged. An aged person should be kept as clean as a baby. She should look clean, taste clean and smell sweet and fragrant. Exercise. ? The woman past fifty should exercise as much as she can conveniently and comfortably. It is not wise to take too much exercise, nor to work too hard, after reaching this period. However, there is more danger of too little exercise being taken, than too much. If a woman has been in the habit of walking a great deal, that habit can long be continued, as long, indeed, as she feels it is necessary or comfortable. Working rarely injures; it is anxiety, loneliness, self-pity and neglect which break old folks down. Domestic work is excellent, both for women under fifty, and past fifty, until they are old as may be, for the domestic labors entail so many phases of exercise, that very little other exercise is required, except the daily walk in the open air. A ride in a carriage, in an automobile, or even in a street car, is a wonderful help, and a real pleasure to the person who is past the age of fifty. Many people have found benefit from regular exercises, taken regularly; and yet this habit must be observed with caution. Unless the person has been accustomed to it for some years, it is not wise to begin a regular set of exercise after fifty years is past. Ventilation. ? A good circulation of air should be observed in the rooms of women who are past fifty. Their breathing organs require more and better circulation of air, than when they were young, and exercised more freely. Let those about that age be sure that rooms are properly ventilated ? not too much in cold weather; nor by placing the bed of the aged where draught will blow upon the bed; nor should they place the chair where draught will blow upon the body. Ventilation is a simple matter now-a-days, and nearly every house can be properly ventilated, so that no draft will occur. The most delightful modern habit of sleeping out of doors, the year round, can be usually recommended, both to women past fifty, as well as to all, of any age. If, however, a woman all her life, has been shut up in a bedroom, without ventilation, it would be cruel and unnecessary for grandchildren to insist upon ventilating her room, according to their modern notions. If the woman has been happy, comfortable, and healthy, during her years, without much ventilation, then let her alone. Trying to regulate grandmother is neither safe, wise, nor productive of much happiness. The human body is wonderfully elastic, and accommodates itself to peculiar habits and to varied climates. Keep the aged clean, properly fed and cheerful, and thine and their days shall be long on the land which the Lord thy God giveth to thee. September Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Work and Business First Week. Theology and Testimony. Second Week. Note. ? It has been decided by the General Board to publish both the August and September Guide Lessons in this number, so that our readers and friends may have their lesson work one month in advance. The October Lesson will appear in the September Magazine. Genealogy. Third Week. Lesson III ? Heirship. Let the class leader begin this lesson with a quiz on the numbering lesson which was in the June Guide. Rule I. ? The rule in heirship, for genealogical work, is: The oldest, living, male representative, who begins the work in the Temple, is named as the heir of the family. Exception I. ? When the oldest, living male representative refuses to do the work for the family, or to direct the work being done, it is permissible, with the consent of the Temple Authorities in the district, where the family lives, for the other members of the family to take up the work, and go on with the same. No one has a right to stand in the way, and prevent other members of the family from carrying on the Temple work. Exception II. ? Where a female has begun the work in the Temple, and her name has appeared at the head of the records as the heiress, even if her descendants grow to maturity, and wish to carry forward the Temple work, the name of the female should be left as the heiress in the family. Rule II. ? When an heir's name has been attached to the family genealogical work, no change should be made in the heir. The name should be continued as long as work is done in the Temple. Exception I. ? It sometimes happens that a man ? not the oldest male representative ? who lives in a Temple district, begins to work for his family, and uses his name as the heir in the family.