SALT LAKE CITY, - JUNE 15, 1884.


(Column One)
		﻿SOME POLITICAL MATTERS.
	Republican delegates from all parts of the
Union assembled in a national convention in the
city of Chicago, on June 2d, and with the grand
ceremonials pertaining to these important as-
semblages held the usual session for preparatory
work previous to the Presidential election.
Speeches on various subjects by some of the
most able men of the party were made in the
interest of the cause at  stake, or the man to be
nominated as candidate, and a platform of reso-
lutions prepared by a learned and august commit
tee were read, discussed, and adopted. Some of
these resolutions were good enough, and would,
perhaps, if carried out, better the condition of
the people of the United States, while others
were superfluous. The one touching the Mor-
mon question was simply a ridiculous farce, only
strung together for effect, because it has become
quite the thing to introduce anti-Mormon meas-
ures whenever there is a convention or confer-
ence, whether religious, political, or education- 
al; no matter where, or upon what account con-
vened; the Mormons cannot be let alone, but
must come in for abuse or proposals for special
legislation or both.
	It does seem absurd that in a great and grow-
ing nation like that of America so much should
be feared from a mere handful of “ignorant, de-
graded and unpopular people.” What can it
mean? The answer is plain enough; it means
persecution for one’s religion in a land of boast-
ed freedom and pretended religious liberty.
Such movements are not at all surprising from
those who have come here and have sought to
rob this people of every right and privilege
pertaining to the liberty of citizenship, be-
cause they have a special object in view; the po-
sitions of emolument and trust in the prosper-
ous and flourishing Territory which Mormon
diligence and energy has wrested from a barren
wilderness; but what possible good can accrue to
the American people at large, by denouncing
the Mormons in all their natural and public
gatherings?
	The Congress of the United States have
passed laws which are certainly sufficiently dis-
tinctive for the Mormons, and men have been
sent into Utah to see that these same laws are
properly enforced and the Courts of Judiciary
are enjoined to make these peculiar laws effec-
tive; and assuredly there can be no ground for
complaint against the persons employed in the
departments of active, executive work, for from
the commissioners, the Governor, and the Pros'
ecuting Attorney down through all the compli-
cated machinery set in motion to vindicate the
dignity of the Edmunds and Poland bill, there
is not, we feel positive, a single officer, however
lowly his station, but has sought with zeal and
(Column Two)
ardor “worthy a better cause,” to see that every
Mormon, man, woman and child, obeyed the
law in its strictest sense.
	Then when such stringent measures are used,
what need is there of further resolves? What
occasion for still more oppressive laws? To sat-
isfy the clamor of men seeking political power
at whatever cost, who will condescend to almost
anything in order to obtain popularity which
will help them on the road to success. “How
have the mighty fallen!" when one contrast
such pigmies with the grand and colossal men
who once filled the halls of the American Con-
gress. But the man nominated by he Repub-
lican party, the Hon. James G. Blaine, is mag-
nanimous enough surely to ignore such senti-
ments as those expressed In the Chicago Con-
vention in the Anti-Mormon resolution. Why
do the Mormons need to be governed by a Legis-
lative Commission? Have they refused to com-
ply with the Edmunds law or any other law,
however unjust or unconstitutional they may
deem it. No, they have not! And wherever
there is the least suspicion of any departure
from the law in its most literal sense, the mar-
shal and his deputies are immediately empow-
ered to bring the erring to justice and most strin-
gent measures possible in a free country are
brought to bear upon the person, no matter of
what sex, to make him or her testify in the
case.
	The Democratic Convention held here in the
City not only resolve against Mormons, but are
also silly enough to resolve that the Delegate
from Utah, the Hon. John T. Caine, is not a
Democrat. As if all Democrats were to be
judged by their standard; it is well known that
there is more than one kind of D[-]moc[-]a[-]s,
whether John T. Caine is or is not a Democrat
according to their half bushel measure. There
are Gentiles in this city who call themselves
war Democrats who hold very different views on
several important subjects to others of the so-
called Democratic party.
	The Democrats in the various States
are making preparations for their National
Convention which is to be held in Chi-
cago soon, and no doubt will be a tremendous
effort on the part of the party to put forth a
strong man and one who is a bona fide, staunch
democrat of some pronounced character, such as
Tilden, who now refuses to be brought forward
as a candidate.
	Perhaps Thurman is the best choice the party
could make, if we were to venture an opinion,
we would say Thurman, and being from Ohio
would be very much in his favor, for either the
fates favor Ohio,or there is some special magnet-
ism there, at least one might be pardoned for
thinking so.
	Whether the Republicans or Democrats carry
the next election it will doubtless make little dif-
ference to the majority of the people here, for
both parties have shown themselves equally the
enemies of the Latter-day Saints in the history
of the past. The genius of the American gov-
ernment is to protect the weak against the
strong, to maintain the rights of the minority
and to defend the oppressed. The forefathers,to
whom the American people point with laudable
pride, acted upon this humane and philanthrop-
ical principle; why do not their sons continue in
a course which gave to these noble patriots such
honor and distinction?
	But then the world has progressed since that
time, and it would not do for these highly en-
lightened nineteenth century statesmen to go
back to first principles. What will the end be one
cannot help querying when monopolies rule
when the strong persist in oppressing the weak,,
when riches are power, and votes can be bought
with money, to what will it eventually tend and
(Column three)
from whence shall relief come. The Republi-
cans say they can carry the nation safe through
all difficulties, the Democrats think they could
revolutionize the affairs of the Republic, the
Greenbackers and Prohibitionists have their pet
schemes; and the suffrage women have some
opinions in reference to the great matters at
stake, and believe woman with man might help
“to steady the ark” more effectually, and it is
not difficult in the midst of so much confusion
to prophecy that there is a time coming when
state will be divided against state, and city
against city, and when the sayings of ancient
and modern prophets in regard to these and oth-
er matters will be fulfilled.


