OBITUARIES.

	Resolutions of Respect to the memory of Sister
Edith Patten Billings, who departed this life May 18th,
1884.
	Sister Billings was born in Greene Co., Indiana,
March 15th, 1832, and has been indentified with the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from her
earliest childhood, and shared in the persecutions of
Missouri and Illinois.
	She was a piece of the [---]
[---], and has passed through many trying scenes in the
history of this Church.
	Her life since her marriage has been spent in Manti.
She arrived here Nov. 22nd, 1850, and lived where the
temple now casts its shadow. She leaves a husband
and a numerous family of sons and daughters to mourn
the loss of a most exemplary wife and a kind and affec-
tionate mother.
	She has always been faithful to the principles of the
Gospel, and has ever been an active and efficient mem-
ber of the Relief Society, and for many years has cred-
itably performed the duties of assistant presiding
teacher, being especially noted for her exact neatness
and precision in preparing burial garments for the
dead. In every department of labor performed by the
Relief Society she was an able and active worker.
	Her funeral was one of the largest we have had in
Manti. Many consoling remarks were made by old vet-
erans who had known her from her young days, and al-
so by President Peterson and the Bishops of Manti,
William Reed and Hans Jenson.
	Resolved, That inasmuch as it has been the will of
our Heavenly Father, in the dispensation of His Provi-
dence, to remove from our midst our well beloved sis-
ter, we, in behalf of the two branches of the Relief So-
ciety of Manti, hereby tender our sincere and heartfelt
sympathy to the bereaved family and relatives of the
deceased.
	We earnestly hope and trust that they may receive in
this hour of their heavy affliction that comfort which
comes from on high, that through the dark clouds of
the present they may see the light which shineth more
and more unto the perfect day.
	Resolved, That while we realize that we have lost a
dear friend and efficient co-laborer, we also realize that
our loss is her gain, and while we mourn the loss of her
society for the present, we believe she has transferred
her labors for the advancement of the cause of Zion to
a wider field in a higher sphere, far from the storms and
perplexities of mortal life.
	Resolved, That a copy of the foregoing obituary and
resolutions be sent to the EXPONENT for publication,
and also be placed upon record in the books of the
North Ward Society.
					REBECCA WAREHAM, President,
					A. S. COX, Secretary,


