SHORT.

	Sister Eveline Matthews Short, beloved wife of Au-
gustus Short, died May 17th, 1884, after giving birth to
a daughter which was still-born. Sister Short was
born about the year 1852, somewhere between Utah and
California. She belonged to one of the tribes west of
Utah, as her parents were Lamanites. She was stolen
from her parents by the Walker Utes, when about three
years old and taken into the southern part of Utah,
where she was adopted into the family of Bishop Grover,
of Kanarrah, and received a good education. She was a
faithful and true Latter-day Saint, and died with the as-
surance of a glorious resurrection with the redeemed of
the Lord.
	The funeral services were held at the North Ogden
meeting house, on the 19th of May, 1884, in the presence
of a large number of friends who had come to pay the
last tribute of respect to their departed sister. The ser-
vices were conducted under the direction of Elder Robt.
G. Berrett. After the usual opening exercises Elde


Amos Maycock delivered an appropriate address. The
speaker rejoiced in the Gospel which placed all on an
equality. There is no distinction made and no such
thing as a special privileged class in the Gospel of Jesus
Christ. Elder Maycock further referred to circumstances
surrounding the early life of our departed sister, who
was a descendant of the Lamanites, and spoke at length
upon the promises that were contained in the Book of
Mormon concerning the remnant of people who once
inhabited this land, and of the important part they are
to take in this great work when a nation will be born
in a day. They will not waver in their faith as we do.
	Elder R. G. Berrett had only a short acquaintance with
Sister Short, but he was satisfied she was a good, true
and faithful Latter-day Saint. No one could have more
joy and satisfaction in the Gospel. She did not covet
the wealth of the world; her whole soul was wrapped
up in her religion, her greatest desire being to know
whether the Book of Mormon was a true record. In
answer to prayer and fasting the Lord gave her a testi-
mony of its truth. Her wish was to raise a family, but
in the providence of the Lord she has been called away
in the bloom of womanhood.

	Many more good things were said suggestive of the
regard in which our dead sister was held, and also
words of condolence were spoken to the husband and
relatives. The cortege was then formed and the re-
mains of the departed followed to their last resting-
place, where the coffin, which was very tastefully decor-
ated with wreathes of flowers, was carefully deposited.
