HELEN AND VIRGINIA. 
[Continued from “Honora to her babe,”]
The words died down upon her lips,
And bending o’er her lovely child
She crashed back to her swelling heart
	The tortured thoughts that fiercely rose;
For thee—lest heart and brain grow wild—
Thy mother braves and bears her woes.

But he the faithless, falthlef s twice—  
To marriage vows and guilty pledge,
Palling of sin’s love lightly won
And piqued by virtue’s calm, pure face,
Turned towards Virginia as the one
Prize in his life’s impetuous race.

And while Honora statue like
Sat in sad reverie alone,
He entered with a king’s own mien,
	The room where fair Virginia wrought,
His own impassioned love made known,
	And boon of faintest hope besought.

Not e'en her pure reply could win
The wanderer from his false path;
Defeat brought not repentant shame
And lofty purpose to his soul,
He turned in hate and sudden wrath
	From her his guile could not control

"Honora, hear! we go this day*
Out from this place; it matters not
Our destination, or the cause.
You cannot leave Virginia? She.
lias grown so dear nnto you? 'What!
She has grown hateful unto me."

Amazed, Honora helpless gazed
Into a future blank and cold;
Past griefs like broken arrows laid
	Beneath her feet, nor had she known
How like a warm and sheltering fold
	This young girl’s soul ’round hers had grown

"Virginia, fold those robes away—
Signora will not sing to-night:
Attend her summons, ’tis the last
	Deed thou wilt ever render her;
Vain, boasting nature! thou hast sapped
Thy walls that all too feeble were!"

Calmly Virginia rose and went
Where mute Honora bowed her head;
The gems and robes she laid away;
	The travelling robes laid out with care;
Questions and answers both unsaid— 
Yet each heart guessed the secret there.

"Farewell? Virginia, teach my heart :
Thy gift of strength, of hope so strong—
Since here I met thee, thou hast been
My inspiration and my staff;
Hence, on life’s stream I float along,
'Neath changeful skies, on drifting raft."

"The Source that dowered thee with gift
Of matchless voice, extends as sure
Its strength and balm secure for thee;
Thy fears, thy grief, thy tears restrain,
A certain faith my heart assures,
Signora, we shall meet again.”
*    *    *    *    * 
Paler, within her now found home,
Virginia bends her task above;
Her earnest thoughts are far away
With wronged Honora’s destiny;
Her gifts, her grand, pure soul, her love,
	A slave 'neath splendor's livery.

In this fair home peace seemed to smile;
A husband gen’rous, noble, good,
A wife fair as th e tend’rest flower,
And free from care or cold restraint.
Here gifts and grace of womanhood
Might bloom ’neath its protecting power.

Here evening after evening found
Virginia with them ns their own;
Their only child drew close to her,
	For his lair, mother lightly wore
The sacred charm by mothers known; 
She was good to him, nothing more.

Her boy had never climbed her knee.
And rocked to sleep upon her breast,
She gave him all that money buys,
	And always kissed the child, good night,
A servant's hands did all the rest—
So he was healthy all was right.

'Twas strange that what he ne’er had known—
Love deeper than a servant’s care—  
His spirit recognized, and reached
With answering clasp Virginia’s love; 
And she fulfilled her mission there,
As charged upon her from above.

The father's face wore grateful smile
To greet his boy when evening came,
So that he gave them no annoy
The mother cared not if he stayed;
	And he by this girl's arms caressed
Shared gentle pleasures none might blame;
Then wearied sank to slumber's rest.

Oft times gay friends brought pleasures new,
And mirth and music filled the air,
And even through the chaugiug scenes
Virginia, faithful, calm and sweet,
Kept ’rouud him still her gentle care,
Striving to make his life complete.

As, 'neath the waters calm and clear
Of some fair lakes, strong springs uprise
Far in their depths, and are their life;
	So, in her hidden nature rose
A change e’en she scarce realized;
So gently to her heart disclosed.

And yet not strange to natures pure,
Unpruned, by errors vain conceit
That clips the spirit here and there
And mutilates with impious hand
The human that God made complete— 
Nature’s true woman or true man.

'Twas mother-love. So strong it grew
It filled the heart else cold and lone,
Yet like a thirst unsatisfied
	That ever pleads, the thought would come
To her own heart, to none else known,
For mysteries are ever dumb,

"Why was I born with hopes that build
Home castles fair ’gainst ev’ry storm,
With cheerful hearth and I its qeeen?
Why was I born a woman?  Why
With woman’s nrms and bosom warm,
	If therein never my child shall lie?

"Read me of homily of fate
Decreeing hunger to the soul
While others feast and wantons waste;
'Tis man, not God who has denied
An equal justice to the whole,
And famished nature e'en deride.

"Truth, reason, teach me still to trust
God’s justice and His power sure
To lead the faltering feet through paths
Where from His own great treasury
Each shall his rightful gift secure,
Nor doubt, nor wrong, nor grief shall be.


