LONDON AND PARIS.

	We arrived in London last night, after a long
and somewhat tiresome ride from Paris, which,
however, was much more pleasant than we ex-
pected it would be, for we had only two hours on
the English Channel, and that without one
touch of sea-sickness. Some of our compan-
ions were not nearly so well blessed as we, and
the slight unsteady motion of the boat quite up-
set them.
	You, I know, are anxious to hear more of our
visit in Paris, so I wont trouble you with any-
thing further about our journey to, or arrival in
London, but will try to go back to our first few
days in the glorious French capital, if my mem-
ory will serve me well enough.
	When I last wrote it was a rainy, disagreeable
day (excuse reference to the weather), but the
next day, Tuesday, was sunny and bright, and
we started out early for the Louvre, notwith-
standing our guide book recommends a prelim-
inary drive the first day, and the rainy days to
be reserved for the picture galleries. As we
were not weather prophets, and could not tell
when the rainy days would come, if come they
must, and as we took a preliminary walk the

[Column 2]
first day and located ourselves and the sights we
were most anxious to see, we decided to follow
our own inclinations, and visit those places
which held most interest for us first, in case
something should occur to shorten our stay, so,
as I before stated, we started first for the Louvre.
This is the most elegant palace in France, and
I think in the world. It was commenced some
few centuries ago, and each succeeding monarch
has endeavored to complete it, but it still re-
mains unfinished. At length when the original
design was almost carried out the Communists
attempted to destroy the whole edifice, but suc-
ceeded in their dreadful design only to burn one
wing; that, however, contained the valuable
library, and was an irreparable loss. After a
brief survey of the outside of the palace we en-
tered the picture gallery, and wandered from
one hall to another in admiration of this most
valuable collection.
	The Italian masters are exceedingly well re-
presented here, but so [---] I have seen, Dres-
den possesses the gem of Italian art, in Raphael's
Sistine Madonna. I cannot begin to enumerate
or describe the beautiful pictures of this gallery,
but can only say they all are most wonderful
and rare gems of art, and gave me the most ex-
quisite pleasure to have the privilege of seeing
them. The principal pride of the Louvre, how-
ever, is the collection of statuary, and the price-
less treasure is the Venus of Milo. It is a work
of art one wants to see once, only to long to see
again. You would hardly believe such power
of expression, such beauty of form, could be
wrought from a piece of marble. Our first day
in the Louvre we occupied in seeing all that was
possible, and locating the different objects, so
that our next visit we could spend in the rooms
containing the principal treasures. It took us a
long time the first day, and we left much fati-
gued. The place is so large that they say it
takes two hours to walk through the rooms with-
out stopping, so you can fancy how long it would
take one to look at the innumerable pictures,
statues, jewels, models, etc., that the palace con-
tains.
	Much of our time, and I believe our pleasant-
est moments, were spent in this gallery, but we
also visited the other art museums; among the
first the Luxembourg, with the gardens laid out
in the old Renaissance style. With these we were
particularly delighted, but with the art collec-
tion most dreadfully disappointed. The muse-
um contains only works of modern masters, and
they seemed to me wholly unworthy a place in
any museum. However, as I don't profess to b
an art critic, and people nowadays seem to ad-
mire these glaring sketches, perhaps I had bet-
ter not attempt to say anything further on the
subject. The palace was filled with students,
copying and studying the style of the modern
masters. One of our last days we went to Ver-
sailles. Oh! how I wish you could have been
with us. It was a most delightful day, and as
we walked round the old magnificent garden,
with its lakes, forests, fountains, statues,
orangery, terraces and flowers, I thought how
much you would enjoy it all, and said we could
never get mother back to the city if she once
were in this garden.
	The palace itself from the outside is not very
imposing, but the gardens are the most beauti-
ful in France, and the palace and grounds to-
gether cost the court of Louis XIV the fabulous
sum of a thousand million francs. The palace
is decorated almost entirely with portraits of the
different French rulers, and pictures illustrating
the history of the glories of France, so here, for
the first time, after our arrival in Paris, we saw
some honor shown to Napoleon; room after
room was hung with pictures of his battles and
scenes of his life. Many pictures of himself

[Column 3]
and of Maria Louise, but only one of the Em
press Josephine. Little honor, it seems to me,
do the French show to those to whom honor is
due.
	The most magnificent hall in the palace is one
extending along the east side and looking over
the garden from seventeen different windows.
In this hall King Wilhelm, of Prussia, was made
Emperor of Germany, when the Germans were
in possession of the palace in '71. Opening from
this room towards the south side is a beautiful
suite of rooms, which have been used as the
chambers and drawing rooms of Marie Antion-
ette, Marie Theresa and Marie Leczinska. We
wandered, rather accidentally, into a hall which
led into the apartments of Marie Antoinette.
This is the only part of the palace not open free
to visitors, and shown by guides. The guide in
waiting hailed us and ushered us in. Such lit-
tle gems of rooms they were; the whole suite
scarcely larger than one of the other rooms of
the palace, and filled with rare little treasures
of this unhappy queen. They were draped in
pale blue, orange and red brocaded silks. Every-
thing, even the bath-room, unique, elegant and
beautiful; but in one was a mirror where one
could see herself without a head, thus showing
the fate of the fair and beautiful Marie Antoin-
ette. The pretty little rooms remind one of the
exquisite taste and elegance of their possessor;
but also bring a feeling of sadness as we think
of her dreadful fate, and then the other horrors
of the revolution. Not a palace or a beautiful
place in Paris but recalls either some horror of
the revolution, or of the Commune of '71, and
their monuments and fountains, with all their
sparkling beauty, fail to hide the terrible scenes
of these times, or to wash from history the
stains of blood.
	Of course we visited the tomb of Napoleon,
and the Hotel des Invalides. This was one of
our most important days. The church of the In-
valides really consists of two parts; the Dome, and
the church of St. Louis. The sarcophagus is placed
in the former in a deep made crypt, and the
pale blue light issuing from the stained windows
above gives a most solemn aspect to the place.
We stayed here some time, thinking of the vic-
tories of Napoleon as they were recalled by the
sixty faded flags, which are placed around his
tomb, and left rather reluctantly for the Jardin
des Plan'e, where we spent the remainder of the
day.
	Our visit was a most delightful one, and we
enjoyed every minute of it, still I did not
leave Paris reluctantly.
	Yesterday I stopped writing to go and hear
the Rev. Dr. Parker, in Holborn Church, and
after that we visited Westminster Abbey. Of
this, however, I will say no more at present.
This morning I am going to the Tower. John
Q. is well acquainted with London, and
shows me around like one who had always lived
here. A week from to-morrow we expect to
sail for home, and then only think how short a
time and we shall all be together again. I for-
got to mention that we saw Longfellow's bust
in Westminster, in the Poet's Corner just to
the left of Dryden's monument. It is a very fine
piece of work, and says, "Placed here by the
English admirers of an American poet."
	Much love for all, father, mother, sisters,
brothers, and precious little Q.
