DEAR EDITOR:

	Owing to our isolated situation we see but
few communications from this part of the
country in your valuable paper, hence the lib-
erty I take in penning a few lines to you, hop-
ing you will be kind enough to give them space
in your paper.
	We are near 250 miles north of Salt Lake
City, and notwithstanding the visits of the
Apostles are few and far between, the Latter-
day Saints here are doing as well as in many
of the older settlements, where they have
much better chances. On the 2nd of April
the sisters of this place met and completed the
organization of our Relief Society, with Sister
Mary A. Green. President; Jeanette Pool and
Amina A. Stephens, Counselors; Mary A.
Shippeu, Secretary; and Harriet Bybee, Assis-
tant Secretary. Our Sunday Schools are well
attended and ably managed, the Improvement
Associations are up to the times.
	On the evening of the 21st the young folks
had a grand jollification under the auspices of
the Y. L. M. I. A. of this place, consisting of
dialogues, recitations, songs, duets, trios, quar-
tettes, etc.; the little ones performed their parts
splendidly and in a manner which did credit


to the management and showed great care in
training. It would be useless to attempt to tell
all that took place and describe how all per-
formed and who did best, for all did excellent-
ly; it might not be out of the way to make men-
tion of the song, "I'll be a little Mormon,"
sung by Miss Sadie Stephens, aged nine years,
and accompanied by her brother, Wm. W.,
aged thirteen, with the violin. The piece was
rendered in splendid style and elicited great
applause. Rhoda Bybee gave a recitation
which produced much merriment, as it was
rendered in a style entirely peculiar to herself.
"Kind words can never die" was rendered by
seven little girls aged from six to eleven years,
and their sweet voices blending with the notes
of the organ produced strains that were truly
akin to heaven.
	The evening passed agreeably, pleasantly,
and profitably, and all went to their homes
wiser if not better. Wishing the EXPONENT
every success,
	I remain, your sister in the Gospel,
				EVA OLSEN, Secretary.

