THE HOAR AMENDMENT.

	It is even more than "passing strange" that
such a measure as the Hoar amendment to
the Edmunds bill, could by any means have
passed the Senate.  And one cannot help feel-
ing somewhat horror-stricken when considering
to what base ends the law has been made to
band. The fact stands recorded in Congress
that this most extraordinary document did posi-
tively pass the Senate on the 18th of June, 1884.
It is, however, worthy of recognition that there
were certain members of that august body of
men, who had the nobility and the courage to
vote against this most unjust and unscrupulous
measure.  One cannot help admiring and re-
specting such men; who will not for popularity,
influence, or any sinister motive, vote for what
they consider an illegal and unconstitutional
law; who are determined to main [-]in and honor
the principles of the Constitution, framed by the
honorable "fathers of our country" to protect
the people in all the rights and privileges that
pertain to l[-]fe, liberty and the pursuit of happi-
ness, notwiths anding they are opposed to the
patriarchal order of marriage (approved of God
and sanctioned by His prophets in olden times),
which is a religious principle of the Latter-day
Saints who inhabit Utah, and for which they
are called in question in the highest courts in
the nation in which they reside, censured and
dis[-]ranchised, and this not being thought suffi-
cient punishment, they are to receive not on y
further indignities, but to be forced, if possible,
into a condition of abject serfdom, taxed to
maintain laws they have no part in making,
and rulers they can have no right in choosing.
All this and more in a country which professes
religious liberty and offers a shelter for the op-
pressed of all nations, and in a Territory which
they themselves have rendered habitable by
toil, industry and diligence, driven as they
were by the exigencies of their situation,
brought about by mobs and violence, into a
wilderness where only wild beasts and savage
hordes roamed at will, yet glad to escape from
persecution and find a haven of peace an[-] rest
far from civilization, home and friends, that they
might worship God according to the dictates of
their own conscience, and obey the principles
revealed to them without fear or molestation.
The blessing of God having descended upon this
people in the desert land, and we having greatly
increased and multiplied in numbers, the anger,
indignation and jealousy of many of the over-
pious and unprincipled men and women of this
great Republic has been kindled into fever heat,
and as year after year rolled by and all measures
and schemes formed against this "despised peo-
ple" failed in checking the growth and develop-
ment of "Mormon" interest, it began to becon-

[Column 2]
sidered a difficult matter, a problem, a knotty
question, and one of the utmost importance to
get rid of.  Great, wise and learned men have
wrestled with this matter in vain, and still the
little grain of mustard seed sown in obscurity,
and insignificant, has grown and become a great
tree, and its branches have spread far and wide,
and have given shelter to many people, and it
is alarming in the eyes of the world, who know
not the marvellous work and wonder which is be-
ing brought to pass in this the last dispensation
of the fulness of times.
	But these are themes one can go on elaborat-
ing to almost any extent, for they are illimitable,
but suffice it to say, the tree cannot be rooted
up, or if it is, the scattering of innumberable in-
finitesimalseeds will "take root and flourish,"
and it will be found impossible to crush it out of
existence.
	When o e considers that this nation in dealing
with the momentous question of so termed
"Mormonism" is measuring arms with the
Almighty, it seems absurd to notice what is be-
ing done, but when one contemplates the doings
of men in these matters, and considers the bear-
ing it has upon men and women, causing suffer-
ing mental and physical, one is forced to deal
with the matter of aggression in defense of
rights, civil, political and religious.  When the
strong oppress the weak, when the nation
makes specific laws for certain classes of its
actual citizens, is it not time for rational
men and woman to resort to all just ex-
pedients to ward off and avert the calamity?
for it can be termed nothing else.  Every
woman interested in her country and her
own individual rights must be roused to
serious thought upon the action of the Sen-
ate in the passing of this amendment.  It
is perhaps true that the House will never go
so far as to commit the same error, but that
does not lessen the heavy responsibility taken
upon themselves by the men who voted for this
prohibitory law.
	Section 7 of this bill abolishes woman suffrage
in this Territory.  This is the little insect that
will sting sharply the men who voted for this
amendment, for although there are many suffra-
gists that hate "Mormonism" and the "Mor-
mons" as much as these same Senators, yet labor-
ing as they are and have been to obtain the bal-
lot, they will fight to the last any measure which
proposed to disfranchise women who have had
the right of franchise bestowed upon them, es
pecially as they are well aware all women are
already deprived of this right, who have ever at
any time been plural wives.  Senator Hoar has
made a great blunder in allowing that section
to come before the Senate, and he will lose cas[-]e
with his own party, and be censured and re-
proached for this egrigious folly of thus over-
shooting the mark; in other words he has acted
against his own avowed principles of right and
justice.


