A DISTINGUISHED WOMAN.

	"Gail Hamilton is about as useful to Mr.
Blaine as Mrs. Logan is to her husband. It
is not probable that there is much in the story
that she composed any important part of the
Blaine Book, though she is entirely capable of
that character of writing. A distinguished
critic said recently that Gail Hamilton was one
of the few women of this age who can reason
and write like a man. At this time she is mak-
ing herself more useful than ornamental by
acting as the private secretary of Mr. Blaine.
The post-office officials here say that Blaine.
now receiving a larger mail than was ever be-
fore received by any person residing in Wash-,
ington. All this correspondence Gail Hamil-
ton handles, either writing the answer herself
or dictating to a shorthand man who is con-
stantly in service. Mr. Blaine confesses that
she can frame a letter as diplomatically as he
can himself, and he pays her the tribute of
saying that she frequently does it better. The
lady is one of your 'early to bed and early to
rise' exponents. It is said that five o'clock in
the morning never sees her asleep, and that
when social engagements do not prevent she
retires at nine. Even if she goes to bed after
midnight, she is up at five the next morning.
She is an ardent believer in the destiny of
Blaine, and does not doubt that he will be the
next occupant of the White House. Her
friends report that in connection with this faith
she is building some social air-castles for her-
self, which is altogether pardonable in a lady
of such vaulting ambition, joined to such
conspicious gifts."


Elevate the working class by keeping your
children in it.— Gladstone.

	Do you think of one falsity as harmless,
and another as slight, and another as unin-
tended? Cast them all aside; they may be light
and accidental, but they are ugly soot from the
smoke of the pit for all that.—Ruskin.

	Much dissatisfaction is expressed in England
because Miss Octavia Hill has not been ap-
pointed on the Royal Commission to attend to
the dwellings of the poor. As the papers say:
"There is no doubt that she knows more about
this subject than any man in England;" and
they call attention to the absurdity of consid-
ering a woman unfit to be appointed on the
Royal Commission, in the country where the
sovereign is a woman.—Ex.

	Mrs. May Wright Sewall, in the Indianapo-
lis Times, gives a very rich and graphic account
of the part taken by women in the late Nation-
al Greenback Convention. She says: "It was
a study of historic value to witness the bear-
ing of the women in this convention, and their
influence upon the confusion and turmoil."
We consider Mrs. Sewall one of the ablest wo-
men of the age; her executive ability is quite
remarkable, and she has wonderful tact as well
as talent.

	Madame Charlton Edholm contributed two
ably written papers on "Woman Journalists"
to the American Journalist, (St Louis, Mo.) for
March and April. She tells us the first daily
newspaper in the world was edited by a woman,
Elizabeth Mallet, in London, March, 1702."
She finds a large list in these latter days. "Un-
til women came into journalism there were no
juvenile papers, and their first efforts were in
that direction; Mrs. Child's Juvenile Miscellany
being the first, and The Rosebud, by Mrs. Gil-
man in 1832, the second.


