A CONSOLATORY COMMUNICATION.

POSTGASSE 36, Bern, Switzerland,
			April 29, 1884.

	Dear Sister—I trust you will excuse my pre-
sumption in addressing you, with whom I have
not the pleasure of an acquaintance at all; and
though it is far from my desire at the present
time to recall the sad and harrowing circum-
stances of the past few weeks in your grief-
stricken feelings, yet I consider it no less a
duty than a pleasure to make a brief report to
you of the manner in which your lamented son
and our sincerely-mourned brother conducted
himself during the short mission he was per-
mitted to fill in our midst.
	In obedience to the call made of him at the
October Conference, 1883, he left his home and
beloved ones for a mission in Switzerland and
Germany, and reached this city, after short
visits with his fellow Elders in London and
Paris, on Sunday morning the 11th of Novem-
ber. In our evening meeting of that day he
bore his testimony to the truth of the work he
had traveled so far to proclaim, and expressed
the buoyant hope that he would soon be able to
talk to the people in their own language.
	The next day I gave the Elders their ap-
pointments to the different fields of labor, also
such instructions as I thought appropriate. At
the close of the meeting Brother Evans re-
quested that we administer to him, as he felt a
lassitude and weariness, also a cold and other
symptoms of an approaching fever. This we
did unitedly. Next morning, Tuesday the 13th,
had been selected for the departure of the
brethren, but as his journey was so long—to
Berlin—I endeavored to persuade him to stay
a few days longer with us until he had com-
pletely recovered. He preferred to go, how-
ever, his ambition to begin work being so great
that he could not feel comfortable in remain-
ing after having received his appointment. Be-
fore leaving them that night (the brethren all
slept in the office) I got him to promise me
that if he did not feel better in the morning
he would not undertake the journey, and so
bade him good night. When I came next
morning he was not present, and I was inform-
ed that he felt better and had decided to go
with the others. After he reached Berlin I
heard once or twice from him personally, also
from his companions who came to Conference
at Christmas and reported him then as getting
better. Ten days later I was shocked to hear
from the Elder who went there to join him,
that his fever was still unbroken and that a
change was imperatively necessary.

[Column 2]
	I wrote to Prest. Smith at Liverpool at once
and he summoned him to that place, whither
he proceeded, accompanied by one of our El-
ders, by the next steamer. Prest. Smith wrote
me twice that he was improving, and then I
read in the Star that he had gone home. The
next news was the mournful and wholly unex-
pected intelligence that he was no more. This
was a great blow to us all, particularly those
who had traveled here with him and learned to
know him.
	He showed himself a remarkably quick and
intellectual spirit, the possessor of unusual
ability and energy, and, had he been spared,
would undoubtedly have proven himself one of
the best missionaries ever sent out. His heart
seemed to be all in the work placed upon him,
and he had no rest, even when sick, unless he
could be studying his books. He would have
grasped the language in a very short time, and
what was still better he was always able to give
a scriptural and reasonable ground for the
hope he had within him. But He who rules
the universe felt to call him hence, and we,
his sorrowing friends, have to subject ourselves
to the decree.
	Happy is he who left us, for his race though
short was well and nobly run; and happy may
we be, who remain, if we are able to say from
the depths of our bruised yet willing and obe-
dient hearts: "Thy will be done; the Lord giv-
eth, the Lord taketh away, blessed be the name
of the Lord."
	I feel myself incompetent to offer any words
of consolation; but I assure you, dear Sister
Evans, that my prayers have been offered up
and will still be that the comforting spirit, of
whom it is written that it robs death of its
sting and the grave of its victory, may be be-
stowed upon you, and that you and your be-
reaved family may feel the near and hallowed
presence of Him who has promised to wipe
away all tears from the eyes of His people. And
may the bright example of him who is gone to
join his departed loved ones and his brethren,
ever remain as a shining beacon for the young
men of Israel, that they may ever be found
ready warriors for the cause of truth to assist
in putting its opposing hordes to fight and its
enemies under their feet.
	My wife and my associates here join me in
expressing our condolence, and our sincere wish
that in this hour of trial the friend of the
afflicted may be near to comfort and sustain
you. With the kindest regards, I have the hon-
or to subscribe myself,
		Your Brother in the Gospel,
