RICHFIELD.

	Minutes of the Eighteenth Quarterly Con-
ference of the Relief Society of Sevier Stake,
held at Richfield, March 14th, 1884, President
Elizabeth Bean presiding. Usual opening ex-
ercises. President Bean said she was pleased
to feel that a good spirit had met with us, even
though none of the leading sisters were with
us.
	Minutes of the previous conference read and
accepted, also the statistical and financial re-
port. Five societies were verbally reported to
be in a prospering condition, and doing what
they could towards assisting in rolling on the
latter-day work, and other good instructions of-
fered by the Presidents of the Societies.
	Sister Thirza Thurber felt to encourage the
sisters to live near to God, to thoroughly study
the principles of the Gospel and learn all we
could, to set a good example before our child-
ren; bore testimony to the good spirit one felt
when working in the temple. Referred to Bro.

[Column 2]
Grant's vision; hoped God would bless and aid
us.
	Sister Jane Spencer felt well to meet in con-
ference; thought we should store our minds with
useful knowledge, that we might be enabled to
converse intelligently, and teach our children
to be good and praiseworthy.
	Prest. Bean was glad to hear of the societies
being so willing to perform the duties assigned
them; desired the sisters to be united and not
allow nationality to separate them into classes;
desired them to visit the Y. L. M. I. A. and P.
A.; appointed some to go as missionaries to
these associations. Said the Lord would help
us if we would try to help ourselves; we should
work together and love one another.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 o'clock. Singing.
Benediction.
	2 p.m. Singing, prayer offered by Bishop
G. W. Bean, singing. Two other societies re-
ported as doing well, being united and anxious
to perform the missions assigned them.
	Sisters E. Bean and C. A. Hunt spoke upon
the subject of reports, desiring the secretaries
to study the subject; gave some instructions and
illustrations upon the subject.
	Bros. Powell, Poulson and Bean encouraged
and instructed us in regard to our duties and
the course we should pursue. Bore testimony
to the noble purpose for which the societies
were organized, and the great good they had
done; commended their labors, energy and
faithfulness.
	Bro. Marsing encouraged the societies to go
forward in their labors, train their children in
the principles of the Gospel; explained some
good points in Apostle Grant's vision.
	Bishop Joseph S. Horne felt highly pleased
with what he had heard; could see a great im-
provement; we had no time to idle. Discour-
aged back-biting—by indulging in it we do
wrong to ourselves and others.
	Sister Bean made a few closing and interest-
ing remarks. Conference adjourned until the
12th of June; 1884. Singing, Benediction by
Joseph S. Horne.
					ANNIE L. BEAN,
						Asst. Secretary.

