WHITECHAPEL BRANCH, LONDON.

	On Wednesday, March 19th, was celebrated
the tenth anniversary of the Relief Society of
this branch, in their large hall, New Road,
Mile End, by a concert or entertainment. The
bill of fare provided was of a most varied and
liberal character. In some respects this was a
model concert, all songs and matter of a ques-
tionable character, unworthy of saints, being
excluded. It was certainly one of the most,
if not the most, successful yet held, whether re-
garded numerically or in its financial results.
At seven o'clock p.m. the hall was nearly filled
by a most respectable, attentive and expectant
audience. Until eleven o'clock, with but a
short interval of ten minutes, the interest nev-
er flagged. After prayer by Elder Leo Claw-
son and a hymn, the concert commenced by an
overture, "The May Queen Waltz, pianoforte
and piccolo, Sister Dolly Atkinson and Mr. A.
Hazzard. In this limited space of course it is
impossible to do more than make a pass-
ing reference to those who more particularly
distinguished themselves by their ability or
talent. In some instances this was displayed
in a manner that must have satisfied the most
fastidious or cultured. A pleasing and unique
feature in the entertainment was that several
of the songs and recitations given were com-
posed by the respected President, Elder H.
Garner. Doubtless these are but instalments
of future favors to come. He has already
composed the following, given at this and pre-
vious concerts; "The Priesthood," "The Cat,"
"The Cheap Jack," comic, given by the writer,
"Pa's come home to-day," and last, though not
least. "Priestcraft," recited by himself, in
which blows of the most vigorous kind are
dealt this "Colossal of Error." "Pa's come
home to-day was sung by Sister Angie Cross,
pianoforte accompaniment by herself. Song by
Elder Loveday, "The Naval Hero" was well
given; as was a song by Sister A. Gill, entitled
"The Old Maid," which was deservedly en-
cored. A song by the children must not be
omitted, "Words of Wisdom," in which the
saints were exhorted to eschew tea, coffee, and
tobacco; a duet by Sisters N. and A. Collins
was given in fine style, and a song, "Exile from
Zion," was given with much feeling by Elder
H. Heath; songs by the Bros. Spillman added
to the general harmony. "The Minute Gun
at Sea," by Teacher J. Davies, and "Just down
the Lane," by Teacher T. Ellis, was well re-
ceived. A recitation by a young lady, Sister
Caroline Parrott, "The Dream," was given in
fine style. The way in which Miss Dolly At-
kinson presided at the pianoforte was most
creditable to her skill and taste. Sister Angie
Cross, whose musical skill is well known, in
her singing likewise displayed no small talent.
During the evening the following report was
read by the Secretary: Tenth Annual Report
of the Relief Society of the Whitechapel
Branch for the year ending March 4th, 1884:
	This society was disorganized in October,
1883, consequent upon the emigration of the
President, Sister E. Young; reorganized the
following March, under the Presidency of El-
der E. H. Nye. The Society now consists of a
president, two counselors, secretary and seven
teachers. Number of meetings held during
the year, 13; Visits paid, 77; Cash collected
from all sources; £10.14.5; Disbursements, £9.-
16.2 ½; On hand, £0.18.2 ½. The newly appoint-
ed members of this society are now initiated
into their work. They meet fortnightly. The
reports are given and financial matters ar-
ranged in unity and love. Thus far an extra
oneness has prevailed. The necessitous poor
have been cared for as far as the means would
permit. And it is hoped have been judicious-

[Column 2]
ly administered. The sisters feel that their
endeavors have been blessed, and that much of
the Spirit of the Lord has been in their midst.
It is the desire of all to press onward in their
labors of love in that part of the Lord's vine-
yard wherein they are placed.
				MARY GARNER, President.
				ANN GILL, Secretary.

	Elder H. Garner presided in his usual genial
style. Elders Lund and Atkins were likewise
present. Towards the close Elder Leo Claw-
son gave a short address, in which he stated
how pleased and gratified he was with the
manner the programme had been rendered.
	Prest. H. Garner then followed with a few
witty remarks about making a collection,
naively remarking that as they had all paid to
come to the concert he must let them off this
time.
	Elder Lund then dismissed with prayer, and
thus terminated this tenth and most successful
anniversary. Many of the Saints attending
came from great distances, and there was a fair
sprinkling of strangers present.
				ALEXANDER R. CLARK,
					Branch Secretary.

