EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Relief Society of Weber Stake will hold
a Quarterly Conference in the Ogden Taberna-
cle on the 20th and 21st of this month. A gen-
eral invitation is given in the Ogden Herald,
which also states visitors are expected fom Salt
Lake City to attend.

	ON Wednesday, June 11, Sisters M. I. Horne,
E. S. Taylor, and Loui[-] Felt left the City for a
tour through Millard Stake, expecting to hold
two or more meetings in each settlement, the
first meeting to be held at Leamington the
evening of their arrival. They will likely re-
main away about twelve days.

	WE most gratefully acknoweledge the favor
of flowers and fruit given by the Ladies of the
Flower Mission on the 9th of June to each of
the patients of the Deseret Hospital. Mrs.
Spurlock, who is a most active and efficient
worker in this labor of love, is a very sweet and
interesting woman, and also a diligent and faith-
ful missionary in the temperance cause.
				E. B. WELLS, Secretary.

	THE Quarterly Conference of Relief Society,
Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations of this
Stake of Zion will be held on Friday and Satur-
day, June 27 and 28, commencing at 10 a.m. and
2 p.m. The Relief Society will hold their meet-
ings Friday in the 14th Ward, and if the Y. L.
M. I. A. and Primary hold their meetings else-
where due notice will be given through the dai-
ly papers.

	DESERET HOSPITAL.—We beg leave to inform
the members of the Deseret Hospital Associa-
tion, that this is the commencement of the
third year; those who have not paid the annual
fee for 1883, will please forward one dollar each
as soon as possible.
	At the organization, it was arranged that the
initiation fees be paid yearly in advance, the
membership fee is now due, and we can assure
the members the money will be very accepta-
ble.
	A number of gentlemen have expressed a
wish to be identified with the Association, and
some have already joined and paid the initia-
tion fee. Ladies also, who feel interested in this
association are cordially invited to become mem-
bers. Mech good has been accomplished by the
institution, and it is very desirable that its
sphere of usefulness should be enlarged.
				H. B. CLAWSON, President,
				E. B. WELLS, Secretary.
	THE Art Exhibition recently opened in Cal-
der's store was quite a credit to young Utah.
One cannot do justice to this subject, however,
without making a lengthy notice, and unless one
is really an art critic more harm than good might
be done by giving opinions on the subject. Still
we are free to say that the "San Carmel Mis-
sion" pleased us more than any other painting
there, possibly the subject had a great deal to


do with our choice. It is true we have some
young artist here who will if they are diligent
and industrious arrive at some distinction in the
profession to which they seem adapted, and in
which they have natural talent. Lorus Pratt is
certainly a portrait painter, for his work is life
like; his painting of Prest. A. M. Cannon is
seemingly perfect. Mayor James Sharp is also
excellent. There are many pictures we would
be pleased to mention if we had space. Bro.
Pratt has certainly the true genius of his work.
Wednesday last we were shown a portrait paint-
ed by J. W. Clawson, son of Bishop H. B.
Clawson, of Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, which was
certainly a most striking likeness, indeed, it
seemed as if she conld speak, and the soul seams
to be in the picture. It was one of the truest
to life we have seen upon canvas. Bro. Clawson
has risen wonderfully in the art and will no
doubt make a mark in his profession.


