A VISIT TO THE COUNTRY.

	Oh, for an "out" into the fresh green coun-
try! Inspired by this impulse, my sister, with
our two little girls chatting with delight over
our anticipated ride, secured seats in a northern
bound train last Decoration Day—as is usually
the case on that memorable day the heavens
showered its tears upon the graves of the dead
heroes of our country—but after the ceremony
of strewing flowers, nature seemed cheered,
dried her eyes and the sun shone forth with
increased brilliancy—in token of approval.
	An example of "Might over Right," which
still holds sway in this life, was exhibited in
the cars by a man in appearance rudely taking
possession of a lady's seat during her absence
for a few moments. When informed that a lady
had already secured the seat, he answered,
"Then she may find another," refusing to arise
when she returned, although other seats were
vacant. The blood in my veins ran up to fev-
er heat, but the train sped on, leaving us at a
little quiet station, from whence we were borne
by a pair of fine animals through winding wil-
low-fringed lanes and flower-decked roads,
sweet with the fragrance of bloom and bird
song. Nature's silent influence has soothed
our indignant spirit, we breathe the cool, sweet
scented air, our eyes feast upon the scene of ru-
ral beauty and our souls swell with gratitude to
the Giver of our lovely mountain home. Man's
injustice to the weaker sex is laid aside for the
time—we are in sight of the little cottage on
the hill side, nestled in a forest of apple trees.
The snowy mountain peaks tower far above in
majestic protection, sending forth rushing, bub-
bling streamlets to dance and sing through
velvet meadows and thriving farms, to be

[Column 2]
hushed into silence on the bosom of the fa
mous Salt Lake, shimmering in the sunlight
like a huge sheet of silver.
	The sound of carriage wheels brings a bevy
of curious expectant faces to the door. We
are most cordially greeted and gracefully
waited upon by the elder girls, while two or
three younger ones run excitedly in search of
"mother;" after a smiling welcome from our
aunt we begin to make ourselves acquainted
with the little country cousins, who have
sprung up like daisies in the meadow since we
made our last visit, when a blooming lass we
tripped over the hills which years of suffering
have robbed us of power to do more than look
upon and admire.
	In this secluded spot in the suburbs of our
propserous town, is a family to be proud of—
twelve children, sex equally divided, with no
vacant chair in the household, except as it was
left to fill that of another home. Here was a
family chain without one missing or ill-favored
link—the sons handsome, intelligent, and of
splendid physique, and the daughters, without
exception, healthy, rosy-cheeked and pretty,
each head crowned with an abundance of wom-
an's glory, a fair forehead, beneath which spark-
led large, beautiful eyes. How graceful and
modest, and such housekeepers! such perfection
of neatness everywhere, while every meal re-
vealed their knowledge of wholesome, tasty
cooking; the sweet, golden butter was perfec-
tion. Vases of tastefully arranged wild flow-
ers here and there, with books and paper, many
of them our own home literature, gave evi-
dence of refinement and intelligence. And
how refreshing the spirit of kindness manifest-
ed from the eldest down to the prattling house-
hold pet. We witnessed nothing rough, bois-
terous or uncouth, nor had they been trained
for the occasion, for we were unexpected visi-
tors.
	And this was a patriarchal family in the or-
der of plural marriage! All clinging to the
faith of their parents, and proud of their birth-
right and the principle which gave them an
honorable existence among the peaceful vales
of Utah. Truly such a household is a monu-
ment of praise to the mother, a plural wife of
a noble, generous-souled man, devoted to his
family and his religion; she has lived in the or-
der of celestial marriage twenty-eight years,
and testified to me that she had never regretted
her choice, nor once felt that she had done
wrong in accepting that principle.
	This quiet, steadfast woman had followed
the dictates of a conscience born of a mighty
faith in God; found honorable wifehood and
motherhood with a man she loved and honored
—has proven herself a faithful, devoted wife
through long years of toil and trial such as
must necessarily be the lot of a woman who
bears twelve children, in moderate circum-
stances. These she has trained to strict moral-
ity, taught them to honor and uphold the Con-
stitution of their country, only to see them
robbed of all rights and privileges of Ameri-
can citizens, unless they violate that conscience
which they have been trained from birth to
hold sacred; and she, this virtuous, God-fearing
woman, must sit with hands fettered by uncon-
stitutional law, untried, unproven guilty of any
offense, while any brazen courtesan, whose steps
lead down to shame and death, may pass tri-
umphantly by her and cast her vote, while she
smiles at the men who yield her patronage.

[Column 3]
	But we leave the discussion of such weighty
subjects to abler pens, we can feel the injustice,
better than discuss it.
	Our pleasant visit is over. We're homeward
bound with a huge bouquet of sweet wild roses,
a deserted bird's nest, and a bucket full of wil-
low whistles to charm the little ones, and with
a higher, truer appreciation in our hearts for
the women who quietly, patiently tread the
ceaseless round of home duties, uninspired by
the praise of the multitude, scarcely apprecia-
ted by those for whom they daily toil and
sacrifice, until the household machinery is
brought to a solemn stop; the main spring is
worn out, the tired hands are folded in a peace-
ful rest, and the weary heart has laid down its
burden of care and sorrow. These our our Mo-
thers! God bless them! May their children
rise up and call them blessed. While the
grandest, most enduring monument, shall be an
honorable remembrance among the Saints of
God forever.					SUN FLOWER.


