NOTES AND NEWS.

	Dr. Lizzie Sargent, daughter of our minis-
ter to Germany, and Miss Flora Kelly, daugh-
ter of Judge Kelly, of Pennsylvania, are
among the eleven American girls studying at
Zurich.
	Dr. Mary Putman Jacobi has lately given
the New York Telegram some very interesting
facts concerning the status of women in the
medical profession. The census of 1870 showed
625 women physicians in the United States.
The census of 1880 shows 2432. This includes
irregular practitioners of various kinds; but,
irrespective of such, the increase has been very
marked.
	Antipathies.-The celebrated Erasmus, though
a native of Rotterdam, had such an aversion
to fish, that the smell of it threw him into a fev-
er. Ambrose Pare had a patient who could
never see an eel without fainting; and another
who would fall into convulsions at the sight of
a carp. What would have been the effect of
an electric eel on these gentlemen? Joseph
Scaliger and others could never drink milk.
Gardan was disgusted at the sight of eggs. A
King of Poland and a Secretary of France
bled at the nose when they looked at apples.
Henry III., of France, and many others had
a great aversion to cats, mice, spiders, etc. A
great huntsman in Hanover, who would attack
a wild boar valiantly, always fainted at the
sight of a roasted pig, if he had not time to run
away. These antipathies have been humor-
ously accounted for by the doctrine of the
transmigration of souls. Those who had been
flies in a former state were horribly afraid of
spiders; those who had been mice, did not like
cats; and those who had been cats did not love.
dogs, etc. Amatus Lusitanus knew a person
who fainted whenever he saw a rose, and al-
ways kept his house when they were in bloom.
Scaliger mentions the same about lilies, and
Bayle about honey. Bayle himself turned
pale at the sight of water-cresses; Tycho-Brahe
fainted at the sight of a fox; Henry III, of
France, at that of a cat, Marshal d'Albert at a
pig. A lady, wonderful enough, could not en-
dure the feel of silk or satin. A man, not so
strangely, was known to faint whenever he
heard a servant sweeping. Nicanor swooned
whenever he heard a bagpipe; Bayle fainted
when he heard the splashing of water.


