BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)
	This was the farewell ball which Col. Kane
so touchingly described to the "Historical So-
ciety of Pennsylvania."
	My parents and a great number were there,
both old and young, but there were also many
more who did not attend it.  There were not
horses enough for all to ride, and we being a-
mong the number who remained behind were
determined to make a party, too, and accord-
ingly the boys got a quantity of bushes and
made a bower before our tent, and commenced
dancing about noon and continued till supper
time. We then adjourned till evening. when
we met and danced till about ten o'clock, and
then dismissed, having had a good time, and
all expressing themselves satisfied with our
scene of festivity. We could furnish our own
music, and we often danced "by the light of
the moon," which was then shining upon us in
all its glory like one bright chandelier. I remem-
ber many an evening afterthe cares and bustle of
the day were over, when numbers of the youth
would gather outside the tents, and as chairs
were rare luxuries, the majority resorted to
wagon tongues, ox-yokes, provision chests and
that sort of appliances in camp life, where we
enjoyed a quiet entertainment of songs, music,
etc. Horace excelled as a flutist, and the
sweet strains that flowed soft and mellow from
his instrument was owing much to his father’s
training. When a small boy, in Kirtland, he
was presented with a fife by Orson Hyde, who
was then a clerk in his father's store, but his
incessant practice wearied his father and every
body within the hearing of it. And seeing
his determination to learn the instrument his
father bought him a flute the next time he
went to New York for goods. John F. Boyn-
ton, one of the first quorum of the twelve, who
stopped at his father's a great deal, gave him
his first lessons on the flute, and his father
would always correct him if he heard him play
otherwise than smoothly. He also possessed
an excellent voice for singing, as well as a gen-
erous supply of wit and humor, and telling
anecdotes was one of his best fortes; and there
were others of this class as well as some supe-
rior lady singers, and by this means we often
drove away, dull care and cheered the aged
and the drooping hearts, making lighter their
burdens. One of the best songs that we used
to hear was the "Jewish Maid," which one of
our girls could sing as sweetly as did Miss De-
vine at the Point, the evening before the de-
parture of the battalion boys, which was refer-
red to by the late Thomas L. Kane, but who,
it seems, was unable to obtain the song except
the following lines, which he gives as "a ver-
sion of the text touching to all earthly wander-
ers."
	"By the rivers of Babylon we sat down and wept,
		We wept when we remembered Zion."
	Bro. John Kay was the first to introduce
this song to us in Nauvoo, but the chorus was
changed, and instead of singing
	"No more shall the children of Judah sing,"
it was
	"Again shall the children of Judah
		Sing the lays of a happy time."
This was sung according to the faith of the
Saints, who did not weep when they "remem
bered Zion," for Zion they had brought with
them.
	The same day that we held our festival we
were visited by two men from the village, who
came on horseback, their names being Beach
and Harding. They were old residents there.
Mr. Beach informed us that the name of the
creek in that vicinity was "Butterfly."
	The day following the folks returned home
and brought the news that four companies
started from the village that day, and the fifth
was to start on the morrow. It is not pleasant
to dwell on the dark side, nor is it my inten-
tion now to rehearse the scenes or sorrow and ad-
ditional suffering of wives and children, which
was forced upon them by the cruel requisition
made upon our people at that time by this gov-
ernment, after suffering us to be ruthlessly
driven out from their midst, I will only men-
tion the case of Sister Ed. Martin, which may
illustrate the pitiful condition under which
many more were left with families.
	Brother Martin had just buried a new born
infant, and left his wife sick, not knowing who
was to take care of her, and there was no time
to make any arrangement for her comfort, and
they had to leave all in the hands of God and
their friends. And who are more capable of
singing and sensing the full meaning of the
sweet and touching song,
	"Hard times, hard times come again no more"
than the ones who remember those gloomy
days and scenes of want and suffering that
were experienced by the Saints who were left
in Winter Quarters.
	The following is from my husband's jour-
nal. 
	"Wednesday, 22nd	Rained a little this
morning.		*	*	Continued storming
throught the day.  I went ahead on the road
about a mile to watch the Indian cornfields,
lest the cattle shall break into them. These
are to be found on either side of the Butter-
fly Creek for some distance up and down that
stream. In the making of these fields they
have not used the plough, but selecting the
softest ground, which is to be found on the
margin of these streams, with little or no sod.
They have simply cut down the weeds with their
hoes, and then put in their corn. In this way
they leave it, giving it no farther attention till
they are ready to harvest it, or rather when
they return from their hunting expeditions they
resort to their fields for roasting ears, which
they are very fond of. If any is left after that
they bury it deep in the ground, where it re-
mains during the winter. I had considerable
difficulty in keeping the cattle away from the
fields.	*	*	*	Quite a number of
teams from Brigham's camp as well as our
own, started to-day, and I had all I could do
to keep the cattle of our camp from crossing
the creek and following them off.
	"About noon Bro's B. Young and Kimball
and Dr. Richards passed by me in a carriage
on the way to the Elk Horn,	*	*	in
order to survey the face of the country."
Those six men who had been sent up the Mis-
souri River to "select a location returned, and
reported that they had been some distance up
the river, but had been entirely unsuccessful
in finding a suitable place to winter, the coun-
try being no more favorable for that purpose
than the place where we now are. According-
ly, Brigham advised the brethren in  council
on Monday last, at the Bluffs, to disperse
themselves among the hills and bottoms and
remain there this winter.
	While out to-day I set my hook and line
and caught six very fine cat-fish, one of which
weighed four or five pounds.	*	*	*
Bro. Kimball exchanged his horse, Charley,
for one yoke of oxen, a cow and heifer, and
another old horse for another yoke of oxen.
To-day Hans was fitted out with a wagon and
team to accompany his father-in-law over the
mountains."
	"This company started the next day, but
coming to the creek they were obliged to build
a bridge before crossing, the late rain having
considerably swollen the stream--consequently
had to camp.	*	*	*	Bro. Kim-
ball and Brigham returned to-day from the
Elk Horn.	*	*	Just as Bro Kimball
arrived Bro's Woodruff, Taylor, Little and
Horne came here in pursuance to previous ar-
rangement to hold council. They remained
with us all night. Bro. Kimball rode over to
the creek to organize that company before they
go on. He appointed Hiram Clark captain of
fifty, and Bro. A Billings and N. B. Barthol-
omew as his counselors. We hear that a num-
ber of Indians rode over to look at their corn
this afternoon, and on discovering it to be trod-
den down by the cattle, were very angry; and
for fear that they might retaliate by taking
some of our cattle every man in the camp was
ordered out to assist in driving in the cattle
and yoking them up, which was done."
	On the morning of the 24th the Twelve and
Bp. Whitney met in council pursuant to ap-
pointment. Father sent most of the camp a-
head that day, in order to build a bridge over
the Elk Horn, this being one of the objects of
the council. Horace says:
	"Today our cattle remain yoked, and two
men are sent out to herd them. I went myself
on that duty this afternoon--the bridge they
have built is a very good one--but three or
four families remain besides Bro. Kimball’s
and father’s”
	The next day being July 25th, Horace
wrote:
	This being the 23rd anniversary of my birth-
day mother, Sarah Ann and Orson took sup-
per with us at Bro Kimball's tent. To-day
Bro. Orson Hyde moved back over the river,
where he intends to leave his family till his
return from England, whither he is immediate-
ly going with Bros. Parley P. Pratt and John
Taylor.  Bro. Woodruff is about moving over 
this side of the Missouri River.	*	*	
About eleven oclock at night it commenced
raining and continued about half an hour ac-
companied by considerable thunder and light-
ening. We hear that one of the soldiers breth-
ren has died since their departure from the.
village. He is said to be the son of the late
General Dunham, of the Nauvoo police, who
died about a year ago, while on a mission a-
mong the Indians."
	"Saturday, 26th. Fair weather--Bro. kim-
ball and father sent four yoke of oxen each to
the river to assist Bro. Woodruff up. Bro.
Coolidge with his omnibus came in the after-
noon, Bro. Hosea Cushing driving it for him,
he being quite sick at this time. Wm. Kimball
and some of the rest of the boys got back from
the river, where they went this afternoon,
about two o'clock in the morning, bringing up
the remainder of Bro. Coolidge's wagons.
Bro. Brigham, Kimball and father went over
the river to-day.	*	*	Bro. Harrison
Burges took the lead of a meeting which was
held here to-day under our bower in front of
the tent, by Bro. Kimball's request."


