BIRTHDAY PARTY.

	On the 10th of May the friends of Sister
Sarah Copley prepared her a pleasant surprise
on the occasion of her 65th birthday. At two
p.m. they assembled in the Relief Society Hall;
when Sister Copley arrived, as she thought to
attend a Primary Conference and picnic, she
was struck by the almost entire absence of
children. She was escorted to the seat of hon-
or, after which Bishop C. A. Madsen made an
opening speech, in which he expressed his own
as well as his brethren and sisters’ high esteem
for Sister Copley, and their appreciation of her
labors in the Relief Society of Gunnison, over
which she has presided for nearly nine years.
She was presented with a beautiful parlor
lamp, an exquisite pair of vases and a rocking
chair. Sister Copley made a response charac-
teristic of her inborn modesty, her saint-like
humility and her integrity to the cause of
truth. An excellent repast was then served by
a number of our young ladies, who seemed to
know just what everybody wanted. Plenty
was left for the sick and the poor who were not
present.
	A few hours were spent in sociable, genial
conversation, interspersed with songs, dia-
logues, recitations, etc., when we were dismissed.
[---] James Gledhill
									H.M.
	Gunnison, May 21st, 1884.


The Woman Suffrage Bill was killed in the
N. Y. Assembly May 10, by a vote of 57 ayes
and 62 nays. The bill recognizes the right of
women to vote, and provides that no woman
who possesses the qualifications for voting
which are required of men, and who appears
before any board of registry and expresses a
desire to vote at such election wherefor that
board is making registry, shall be refused reg-
istration because of her sex. The object of
the bill, if it passed, was to make a test case
and have the courts decide whether under the
present State Constitution of New York wom-
en have a right to vote. Many who voted
against the bill said they did so on the ground
that it was clearly unconstitutional, and that
if the question was up on a constitutional
amendment, they should vote in favor of the
proposition. The Brooklyn members voted for
the bill, with the exception of Messrs. Kelly
and Nason, who were recorded in the negative,
and General Heath, who was absent.—Ex.

	The surprisingly large vote obtained under
such adverse circumstances, increases our re-
gret that Mr. Hamilton Wilcox, the author of
the bill, had not limited its scope to municipal
and presidential suffrage, so as to avoid the
legal question of constitutionality. If the vote
of the New York Assembly expresses the real
opinion of its members, a bill thus limited
might become a law, and would give women
so much political power as to ensure their com-
plete enfranchisement in the near future. It
is a pity to have the wheels of progress thus
blocked year after year upon a mere technical-
ity.—Ex.
	Manners are the shadow of virtues.—Sydney
Smith.


