Y. L. M. I. A. BRIGHAM CITY.

	On the 11th of June, with Mrs. Elizabeth
Howard, left this city to attend the Young Ladies'
Conference and Fair of Box Elder Stake, in
Brigham City. The weather was delightful and
the orchards and farms all along the route pre-


sented a most charming picture. After leaving
the city with its bustle and noise we enjoyed
the ride through the beautiful farms and green
fields along the way.
	Upon arrive we were received and enter-
tained by Mrs. Minnie J. Snow, President, and
were soon refreshed and ready to attend the
meeting in the afternoon. After the usu-
al exercises very interesting and beneficial
remarks were made by Sister Howard, fol-
lowed by a sister from Willard and many of the
young ladies.
	It indeed filled one with amazement to hear
these beautiful young ladies bear such testimon-
ies, and exhibit such knowledge, intelligence
and self control. I feel sure it would encourage
some of the young ladies, who never take part
in these associations, if they could have heard
the many beautiful thoughts that were express-
ed that day. It at once proves the benefits that
can be obtained from these meetings. They
enable us to build each other up, and develop
those faculties within us, which we knew not of
ourselves.
	Closing remarks were made by the President
of the Y. L. M. I. A., after which the meeting
was adjourned.
	In the evening we had the pleasure of attend-
ing the fair. I may truly say I was surprised
to see the excellent taste displayed in the ar-
rangement and in the articles exhibited, and the
willingness of the young ladies to assist in all
good works. Some of the articles were really
works of art, and all showed the industry and
wonderful energy of the young ladies. Home-
made hats just as pretty as could be purchased
at any of our millinery shops, trimmed in ex-
quisite taste, so[-]a cushions, baskets, netting,
bead work, embroidery of the finest kind on
homemade linen mats, tidles of all descriptions,
slippers, wax work, all kinds of beautiful needle
work, artificial flowers, collars, drawn work,
[---], bed spreads of drawn and netted work,
carved wood, quilts, netted curtains, pillow
s[-]ams, laces and collars, sketches in penci[-], and
oil paintings, and so many beautiful and use[-]ul
articles that it would be impossible to mention
or do justice in describing them. The Indians
from Thistle Valley sent some very nice articles,
showing that the work among them has not
been in vain. One of the young Indian women
sent some needle work; a baby's white dress
[-]ucked and trimmed with embroidery. Other ar-
ticles, such as woollen stockings, aprons and
everything in the way of bead embroidery,
purses, cushions, hand satchel, moccasins, and
all were quite handsome; also copy books filled
with their writing, and it would do well for
some of us to practice until we could form our
letters as well, for they were excellent.
	The fair was conducted by the young ladies,
and the contributors were all from the stake.
The lower end of the room was fitted up for re-
freshments, where they served the most delicious
strawberries, ice cream, cake and fruits. Alto-
gether the fair was a thorough success, and re-
flects great credit on the President and young
ladies
	May we have many more such meetings and
fairs, and may God bless all those who are seek-
ing and working for the good of these societies
and associations. I enjoyed my visit very much
indeed, and have a great admiration for those
young ladies who have shown such nobility and
courage to meet together for mutual improve-
ment.						LOUIE WELLS.


