HELEN AND VIRGINIA.

"Wait thou, my spirit, till he calls
In answer to thine earnest prayer;
Do thy full duty, guard thy steps,
	For oh, I feel a presence near
That almost parts the burdened air;
	I lean; I wait, the voice to hear."

And once, unconscious who was near, 
She held the boy and sang to him;	
The hearer’s eyes drank in the scene,
    	And knew what most his love had missed—
The mother-heart. His eyes grew dim
	As she the drowsy eyelids kissed.

More thoughtful daily grew his face;
If she had ever sought his eyes
She might have caught a shadow there
	Rising o’er her own peaceful day;
But In her own pure soul the skies
	Were blue and clear, and plain the way.

And his fair wife, like humming bird,
Flitted for pleasure here and there;
He would not check her radiant smile,
	Could not reprove her thoughtless life
But lover still, he strove to bear
	The fears with which his peace was rife

Restless she grew ’neath home’s dull claims,
Insatiate grew her vain desires;
The tender quiet of his face
	Passed o’er her like a shadow cold;
A thought, that leaped like mocking fires—
	“Was he not growing selfish, old?”

“Well, if he chooses to be tied down		"
To dull home circle, tame home songs, 
Why, there’s Virginia and the child,
	Safe company, at any rate.”  
For her the zest-inspiring throngs,
	In part, his fault should expiate.

What wonder then that pity grew 
Slowly within Virginia’s heart?
With gentle care she strove to make
	Home brighter for the fair one’s eyes,
Kept ev’ry troublous thing apart,
	As though her own peace were the prize;

In vain—except the young wife thanked
Virginia in her inmost-heart
For taking charge of dull affaire,
	Grateful indeed that some there were	
Contented to perform a part 		
	Long since distasteful grown to her.

To him, home grew the dearest place,
Full well he strove to weave its charm
Around the lovely wanderer;
	But stronger still the contrast grew—
Lilian, who loosed his guardian arm,
	Virginia, unto duty true.

“Come, Lilian, let us [--]ng to-night.”
Then answered she with weary air,
“I’m going out, and I must dress;
	Banish that cloud that shades your brow;
Sing with Virginia, I don’t care
	To sing that kind of music now.”

What perill for what power lies
In music, richer far than speech;
Who does not know some blessed strain
	That lives, a sacred monitor,
Recalling oft to the heart's reach
	Life's sweetest memories again?

What wonder that in time there grew
Love, pity's sister, in her soul?
Yet like a hidden prisoner,
	No eyes discerned his presence there, 
Her secret lived 'neath her control,
	Faithful ti duty, pure as prayer. 

Yet oft within her mind arose 
The ill-adjusted laws which bind 
The wothy and unworthy, one, 
	While neither happiness secure:
Nor either other bliss may find,
	But life long burden mest endure.

But for the child grown dear to her,
Virginia long ere this had gone,
But something in his clinging love
	Plead to her heart, not yet--not yet--
It held her fast, it led her on,
	Till the release she prayed was met.

Whence came the shaft that laid him low?
Was it the mother’s heart to wake?
Frightened and helpless as a child
	She stood apart—“Virginia, come,
He calls for you, that you might take
	Him in your arms.”  Pallid and dumb.

She raised him in her arms once more;
“Rock me,” he said, then looking ’round,
“Kiss me good night, papa, mamma;
	Virginia, I am going where
I dreamed, and told you—hold me tight—
	I dreamed ’twas you who took me there.”
He laid his check upon her heart,
They hushed their sobs, nor touched his hand:
Virginia’s eyes beamed down in his
	Love, courage, faith; he smiled, and then,
Half dreaming, whispered, “there !” and
	Drew one deep sigh, nor breathed again.
With her life's secret, and its loss,
With empty arms, no longer now
Did duty plead a double cause,
	Nor felt her sacred sorrow yield
License to meet the hallowed love
	Beside the precious dead revealed.

For him, life spread like ocean vast,
False, shining waves that dancing leapt
To changing music ev’ry hour
	Above the treacherous, hungry dcep;
Rude winds in shreds the sails had swept,
	And left him all alone to keep

Watch o’er the frail, dismantled bark,
or Lilian’s soul was like her face,
And both like April’s fleeting day,
	With sudden bursts of shower, then
Its sunshine, carols, and its flowers.
	All beauty, life and warmth again.

He knew that soon her soul would rise
Freer and lighter than before,
And that the sphere whose shining dome
	His hope and love had gilded bright
Was but a hollow, glittering toy,
	A bubble, broken in his sight.

His name—through generations old
Sire unto son had, dying, left
The ancestral home and honored name;
	With him that name would die away,
His household of his son bereft,
	No hope illumed his darkened day.

And as a bird by chill winds driven
Seeks refuge till the storm is spent
In e’en the gnarled and hollow bough,
	So to her kindred, distant, cold,
Virginia for a brief time went,
	Nor dreamed the new life to unfold.

Some idle words that caught her ear,
Disdain, contempt, for some new creed,
Woke a desire, an inquiry—
	“What is this faith so strangely new
And so delusive, that indeed
	Divines fear ’twill their work undo?”


[Column 1]
