WOMEN.

	The Boston Woman's Journal of May 27th
contains in its editorial columns an article re-
ferring to the petition of Mrs. A. G. Paddock,
of this city, for the disfranchisement of
the women of Utah. Mrs. Paddock explains
to them that the committee who have prepared
the petition are all of them suffragists, but
adds, "The entire Gentile population, both men
and women, are willing to be disfranchised,
and to have the Territory governed by a
commission.”
	But it appears Mrs. Paddock "reckoned with-
out her host," for the Journal of June 5th,
contains a letter from Mrs. Sarah A. Cooke,
who signs herself President of the Anti Poly-
gamy Society, in which she says: “Go away
from home to hear the news," and adds, "I certain-
ly have not learned anything here of that pet-
ition. I have repeatedly expressed the opi-
nion that it would be unjust to disfranchise women
and not the men. Under the commis-
sioners, the men who are or have been in poly-
gamy are disfranchised."


Now with all due deference to those who do
not throughly comprehend how far this reaches,
or how distinctive the disfranchisement is by
the Edmunds law, as administered by the com-
missioners, allow one who knows to explain that
not only all men who have been polygamists at
any time (in the marriage relation), but all
women who have at any time lived in the order,.
of plural marriage, are also, disfranchised
indiscriminately, whether before the law of
1862, or since, it matters not; women whose
husbands died previous to 1862, and who were
not only American citizens in their own right,
but were first wives, have been refused to regis-
ter, on the same grounds as those living in the
practice of plural marriage at- the present time.
If this is not an exposte facto law what is it?
	However, one thing is evident, that Mrs.
Paddock and the Anti-Polygamy Society do
not agree in their policy in reference to the
women of Utah.  Mrs. Jennie B. Froseith also
protests against the disfranchisement of the
women of Utah, both Mormon and Gentile a-
like.
	The Woman’s Journal in its editorial re-
marks, “The male population of Utah is over-
whelmingly Mormon- We can inform the
Journal that the women of Utah are “over
whelmingly Mormon.”  That Mormon Women
in point of number as well as influence are a
power in the Church, and are women of intel-
ligence, notwithstanding the Journal calls
them “dupes and slaves.” The Gentile women
numerically are a very smail proportion indeed
and there are still plenty of “Mormon” women
who can take the oath administered before re-
gistering, and though most offensive and ob-
noxious to a pure minded woman, yet for duty’s
sake they comply with the regulations of the
commissioners,that the rights they inherit may
not all be wrested from the people who have
made the country, and who by their very acts
prove their loyalty to the government, against
which they are said to be rebellious and defiant.
Knowing, too, that there are women of another
class who take this same oath, and can do so
with impunity because it includes the very
comprehensive term (in the marriage relations.)
						E. B. W.


Better to be in shame now than at the day
of judgment.--Mohammed.
	Miss Maud Howe has become art critic of
one of the Boston papers.  She is author of
“The San Rosario Ranch,” just published by
Roberts Brothers.
	Nova Scotia has followed the example of
Ontario, and enacted a law giving municipal
suffrage to unmarried women and widows on
the same terms as men.
	The British House of Commons has passed
a bill to allow a man to marry his deceased
wife’s sister, but refuses to allow a woman to
marry her deceased husband’s brother.  One
is declared right, the other “disgusting.” There
must be brains in the House of Commons about
equal to those in the House of Congress of the
United States.--Our Herald, Ind.
	Mme Kowalewsky, a Russian lady, now oc-
cupies the chair of mathematics in the Free
University of Stockholm.  Dagens Nyheter, or
the Daily News of Stockholm, wonders that
Mme Kowalewsky's professorship has not ex-
cited general attention but adds that the Uni-
versity  of Stockholm being a new institution,
is not suspected of being a rival of Upsala-
and Lund the other universities of Sweden.

	One of the suffrage workers remarks of a
lady he is an active member of fourteen so-
cieties: "If a woman can do all this, and yet
attend faithfully to her home, surely women
caff cast an intelligent ballot without failing
in her home duties.”


