SOME OF THE REASONS WHY.

	The following is in answer to a letter from a
Gentile lady in Cincinnati, making some in-
quiries in regard to our principles and institu-
tions:
		SALT LAKE CITY, March 23rd, 1884.
DEAR MRS. ELKINS:
	I am sorry your inquiry has been so long neg-
lected, perhaps the fact of my having a fam-
ily of five children and no servant may be a
satisfactory explanation.
	I do not wonder at strangers puzzling over
our state of life, because it is something new,
practically; its history in the Bible is like a
story of the past, respected because within the
sacred pages that have been the only light and
hope of the Christian world.  But what God
has once established can He not establish again,
even though men had lain aside the ancient
customs and even made laws against it?  The
reason that so many are unsatisfied, and some-
times even disgusted with the monogamic sys-

[Column 2]
tem of marriage, is because it is like a house
built upon the sand, with no foundation of di-
vine principle, authority, or promise of hope
of its perpetuity beyond the grave.  The world
has lived for self not God, the present not the
future. I do not feel to be an instructor in so
great a matter, but will try and reply to your
different inquiries according to my own expe-
rience and observance, for I would feel con-
demned to remain silent.
	I was a plural wife two years, and then the
first wife of my husband died, after a brief ill-
ness, being of apoplectic habit. It was with
her full consent (or I would never have entered
her family) also that of her children, that I
became her husband's and their father's
second wife.  During this two years we
never exchanged unkind words; she
was many years my senior, and perhaps
looked on me something as she would have
done on a younger sister.  I always bore in
mind that she had made a great sacrifice of
her personal feelings, through zealous devotion
and conscientious noble principle, that she had
risked all on the altar of her faith, trusting in
God and the honor of her husband and myself
to do our part in this most solemn coven-
ant.
	The woman heart and nature, as well as the
man heart and nature, are the result of genera-
tions of training and a selfish looking out for
self.  Take the Bible from the earth and in a
few centuries, or less, what would the Chris-
tian world become?  Women and men can be
perfectly happy in this order of marriage if 
they are guided by principle, and not by frivol-
ous fancy, or mercenary or ambitious mo-
tives.
	Now, when the evening comes, aud the hus-
band is away?  Well, if the husband is a real
Latter-day Saint his wife or wives,who do not that
evening have his society, know just where he is,
that he is not down town in a saloon,or anywhere
else practicing infidelity to his marriage vows,
and trying to deceive them. They know that
he stands more in awe of his Creator and the
guardian angels that we believe are continually
beside us keeping a faithful record of our
words and deeds, than of all the earthly courts
and laws the libertine fears.  That the loss of
the confidence of his brethren and family
would be his sorest penalty.  This wife would
gather her children around her in order, tran-
quility and happiness, and in quiet industry
employ their time and instill into their minds
that they are the most blessed, most hopeful,
and surest of present and eternal happiness, of
all God's creatures upon the earth. She feels to
give herself and her children to the service of
His plan, the strengthening, enduring and up-
building of His Kingdom, by their influence,
labors, prayers and aspirations.  These themes,
and not the trivial carnal crosses, occupy their
minds.  Not repinings—more knowledge is the
prayer.  Love of man is bondage.  Love of
God and His principles, with a just man, as
God's representative, for companionship, both
with the same mutual aim, righteousness here,
the courts of God hereafter, fill their minds
too well for them to stoop to or mourn for the
phantom joys of changeful, weak humanity,
bestowing or withdrawing.
	I fear I have not answered you after all.
Write again.		Yours truly,
