PRIMARY MEETING.

	June 10th, 1884, by invitation of the President
of the 21st Ward Primary Association, I attend-
ed the anniversary of the same, and heard and


saw much that was most gratifying. Sisters
Eliza R. Snow, E. C. Clawson, M. P. Young,
and Lydia Alder were also visitors; there was a
large attendance. The programme was good,
and the selections excellent and appropriate;
some very small children gave short recitations
and little songs; it would not be fair to particu-
larize where all was good, but I must mention
emphatically a cust by the Misses Olsen, E[--]
and Alice, which was faultlessly rendered. "List-
-'tis music stealing." is an exquisite and pathet-
ic duet, and was deeply interesting to me from
associations that memory called up so vividly.
The name of Olsen seems synonymous with a
concord of sweet sounds among us, for which I
for one seem very grateful.
	The order and quiet preserved in the meeting
was really remarkable among such a juvenile
assemblage and did great credit to the parents,
and also to the President and her counselors.
Sister Snow led the opening prayer, the children
following her in each sentence, which was very
effective. She afterward addressed them in her
usual sensible and practical manner; and each
lady visitor spoke a few words apropos to the
children. To me the meeting was perfectly in-
spirational, and in those expressive words, I
"felt it was good to be there."
	There was an invitation from Sister Vernon
Smith to adjourn to her house after the meeting
and partake of refreshments, which several of
the ladies accepted, and we there found an ele-
gant and substantial table spread with the
bounties and luxuries of life; and the evening
closed with "the feast of reason and the flow of
soul." Such meetings with such scenes help to
make the poetry of life, and to bring out and
unite much that often lies dormant for the want
of such genial association. May the smile and
approbation of our Great Father, with His di-
vine assistance over attend all such gatherings,
is the prayer of					H. T. K.


