WOMEN'S HOME MISSIONARY
WORK.

	Sisters M. Isabella Horne, Elmina Taylor, and
Louie Felt left this city Wednesday morning,
June 12th, to make a tour through Millard
Stake, and hold meetings with the Relief So-
cieties, Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Associations.
Traveled 400 miles and held twenty-two meet-
ings. At Leamington Sister Felt organized a
Primary Association on the 12th inst., with
Mrs. Mary Pay, President, and at Fillmore a re-
organization of the Y. L. M. I. A. was effected,
and Mrs. Delilah K. Olsen was appointed Presi-
dent.
	The sisters visited and held three meetings in
each settlement in the Stake except Leaming-
ton and Oak City, where only two meetings
were held. Sister Elizabeth Yates, of Scipio,
met the sisters at Leamington, and accompan-
ied them in their visit through the Stake. The
bishops everywhere were interested in the work
they were laboring to accomplish, and gave
them a hearty welcome, rendering them all the
assistance in their power. President Hinckley
was also much gratified at meeting with them
at Deseret, and also at Filmore, and urged them
to come again.
	Sisters Eliza R. Snow Smith; Margaret P.
Young and Elizabeth Howard went to Grants-
ville on Friday, June 13, to attend the Sister's
Conference of Tooele Stake, which commenced
on the 14th and closed on the 15th. There was
a Primary Fair held also, which was a very suc-
cessful affair, and the little children's work,
much of it, was very artistic and particularly
well executed.
	On Sunday, June 15th, a special meeting
was held at Granger Ward, for the purpose of
organizing a Relief Society in the ward, which
has only recently been set off and fully organ-
ized. Bishop D. McCrae presided over the
meating. His Counselor, John Banden, acted
as secretary. Opening prayer by Counselor
Abram Sorenson. The Bishop proceeded to or-
ganize by placing before the meeting the names
of Sister Mary E. Porter as President; Sister
Elizabeth Park, First Counselor; Sister Mary A.
Bess, Second Counselor; Sister Catharine Mak-
ay, Secretary; Sister Betsey Hall, Assistant
Secretary; Sister Phyldes Warr, Treasurer. The
nominations were unanimously approved. The
officers were set apart by the Bishop and his
Counselors. The meeting was afterwards ad-
dressed by Sisters B. W. Smith, M. W. Wilcox
and E. B. Wells, who were present by invita-
tion. The sisters who had just been appointed
to office each expressed a willingness to perform
the duty assigned, and try to magnify the office
to which they had been called.
	The Seventeenth annual meeting of the Re-
lief Society at South Cottonwood was held June
17th, at the Ward meeting house at 10
a.m., which was well filled with sisters; a
few brethren were also in the audience.
	Mrs. Jeanette B. Cahoon, a very able and effi-
cient president, who has filled that office from
its organization, presided, and great credit is due
her for the active as well as the spiritual labor
she has accomplished during that time.
	The minutes and reports were very good; Sis-
ter Harriet Ann Walker is a competent Secre-
tary, though she has not been long in the office.
Sisters E. R. S. Smith, E. B. Wells and Dr. Ro-
mania B Pratt, who had been invited to attend,
each addressed the meeting, though Sister Eliza
occupied most of the time, speaking upon
union, the duties of teachers, the importance of
their work, the necessity of progression the de-
sire we have to know more of our Father and
mother in heaven; referred to our consenting to
come here and take up our abode, forgetting the


past, in order, to prove our integrity to our hea-
venly parents, and exhorted the sisters to study
the word of God and seek to draw near to Him;
and gave much good instruction on various mat-
ters.
	Sister M. A. Rawlins occupied a few mo-
ments and entreated the sisters to attend their
meetings.
	At 2 p.m. the Y. L. M. I. A. convened at the
same place, and after the usual exercises of sing-
ing and prayer, Sister Eliza addressed the young
ladies. She urged them to lay a foundation for
future life and happiness, by becoming good
house keepers; entreated them to be practically
useful, as well as to learn accomplishments, and
to prepare themselves for the great work that
lay before them; attend to their meetings, and
seek to attain to excellence in all things truly
noble and elevating.
	Sister E. B. Wells was the next speaker, her
remarks were mostly in reference to the all im-
portant matter of understanding their own or-
ganization, and what was essential to life and
health, and the best methods of attaining to the
full development of every faculty with which
God had endowed them for the fulfilment of
their probation here on earth.
	Sister Jane Freeze made a few remarks very
suggestive to the young ladies, and was followed
by Sister Maggie C. Shipp, who bore a faithful
testimony to what she had received in regard to
the truth. Her words were earnest and her
manner most emphatic.
	After these sisters had finished speaking, Sis-
ter Eliza R. S. Smith made some explanations
in regard to a reorganization of the Y. L. M. I.
A., and presented the resignation of the Presi-
dent, Mrs. Annie Thompson, to be voted upon.
The resignation was accepted, and the following
officers were proposed, and a unanimous vote
was carried, Sister Eliza officiating in reorganiz-
ing:
	Isabella Benbow Evison, President; Annie E.
Labun and Annie Thompson, Counselors; Rosa
A. Kelch, Secretary; M. Antoinette Cahoon,
Assistant Secretary; Anna Smith, Treasurer.
	Bishop Rawlins addressed the young ladies;
told them those who preside must never tire if
they expect to be successful. The Bishop and
his Counselor set the officers apart. Meeting
adjourned for one year. Benediction by Coun-
selor Wheeler.


