BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.

(Continued.)

	On the 27th Horace mentions the boys and
girls going fishing. "At the same time," he
says, "we saw a number of teams crossing the
bridge on their way back. There were ten
wagons, which proved to be the property of
men who had left the Pawnee village about 120
miles above there, in consequence of the hostil-
ity of the Indians, where they had lived a
number of years. They were going to the vil-
lage below on the west side of the river, where
a number of their company had preceded them.
Among those we saw were four wagons and six
men belonging to Bishop Miller, who are tak-
ing a load back for them, and receive in pay-
ment for the same three hundred bushels of
grain, mostly wheat.	*	*	The occa-
sion of their leaving is this—a hostile tribe of
Indians called the Punkaws, who are constant-
ly roving about and are much addicted to
thieving, have lately made their appearance at
the Pawnee village, and molested them so
much with their thieving operations and other-
wise, that they are obliged to leave, the Indi-
ans having previously stolen all their horses.
The settlement of men who have thus left, for-
merly consisted of eight families, viz.: three
missionaries, three farmers, one blacksmith, and
a school teacher commissioned by government;
the school teacher had under his direction some
twenty Pawnee children, who have left with
him to go down to the said village, and whom
he is educating at the expense of the govern-
ment. Some of Bishop Miller's men told me
that the Pawnee village was totally deserted,
they having gone out on a hunting expedition.
They told me furthermore that they are living
on the "fat of the land," there being plenty of
garden sauce, such as potatoes, onions, peas,
etc., which the settlers had left behind, not be-
ing able to bring them away."
	We had been deprived of vegetables from
the time that we had left the states, and it had
already begun to tell upon us, though we had
no idea then of the scourge and suffering that
were lying before us; but we will not "cross
the bridge till we come to it." There was a
piece of unexpected good fortune happened to
Bishop Whitney which Horace relates:
	"When father's boys went down into the
country some time after provisions he sent $89
for the same, but through the mismanagement
of the agent he did not get more than half he
wanted, and consequently would have been un-
able to prosecute the journey had it not been that
the Lord, seemingly on purpose to repair this
misfortune or injury, put forth His hand in his
behalf. The circumstances were these: Bro.
Hyde being about to depart for England, just
before crossing the river again with his fami-
ly, let him have two yoke of oxen, ten barrels
of flour, and a bushel and a half of beans,
which to use his own phrase, "has completely
set me on my feet again," and he is now fitted
out to his heart's content.	*	*	At
the same time Bro. Parley P. Pratt gave him
$30 in gold for the same amount of money."	*
	"Tuesday, 28th. Beautiful morning.
About 2 p.m. it commenced raining, and con-
tinued showering through the day and night,
accompanied by considerable thunder and
lightning—it seemed to pour down almost per-
pendicularly and in perfect torrents, so that
there was not a wagon but what the rain pene-
trated through the cover thereof and wet all
the bed clothing, etc."
	This was one of the trials calculated to test
one's patience, a virtue which had been consid-
erably exercised during the five months that
we had spent picking and plodding our way
under difficulties which no language can des-
cribe, therefore must leave it for imagination

[Column 2]
to do, though Horace gives no slight idea:
"Wednesday, 29th. This morning fine and
pleasant, the atmosphere sweet and pure, in
contrast to the sultry heat of yesterday; almost
every wagon in camp was unloaded, in order
to dry the things therein.	*	*	Bros.
Kimball and Brigham went over the river to-
day to make some arrangements for the breth-
ren starting for England.	*	*	They
intend starting to-morrow. Since we have
been lying still our cattle have suffered from
the "footale." caused either by the mud or grass
getting between their hoofs; while traveling we
have never been troubled with it."
	The remedy made use of was to pour melted
rosin into the hoof, afterwards pulling a rope
backwards and forward through it to get out
the filth. Rather a rough remedy this. We
had showers at intervals for two or three days
and nights, and on the 30th Horace wrote:
	"During the storm on Tuesday evening an ox
belonging to Bro. Eldredge was struck by light-
ning and instantly killed. Father Lott came
up to-day, bringing considerable church prop-
erty, with some cattle and sheep, etc." and that
my father and mother went over the river to
visit a farm the same day, returning at even-
ing and bringing quite a quantity of green corn
—first we had seen that was fit to eat. He
wrote:
	"Another meeting was held this morning,
and a number of teams sent down to help those
who are crossing the river all the time, and are
constantly swelling the size of our camp with
their numbers."
	Next morning another meeting was called
and a number of men who had not yet been
were sent to the river to work. Father and
President Young went also. While they were
there the steamboat "General Brooks" came
down the river and stopped at the village on our
side about two miles below the ferry' 'Bros.
Parley P. Pratt, Orson Hyde, John Taylor, R.
Pierce and Little came over in a skiff and took
in Bros. Brigham and Kimball and went down
the river to overtake the boat, but when they
got to the village the steamboat had left, conse-
quently Bros. Taylor, Hyde and Pratt were
obliged to go down in a flat-boat in company
with some missionaries till they can overtake a
steamboat."
	"Saturday, August 1st.	*	*	*	*
Another lot of men were sent down to the river
this morning with teams.	*	*	To-
day a number of the Otoe Indians were here,
they had a lot of corn with them which they
had stolen from the cornfields of the Mohawks
close by here. The Otoes are a mean, thieving
race, and are also very cunning, which they
showed particularly in this case, knowing that
the taking of the corn would be laid on to us
by the Mohawks. Father, mother and little
brother are very sick to-day. Father took
cold sitting up and watching with mother, who
was very sick during last night, but is a little
better to-day"	*
	"Sunday, 2nd. Brothers Brigham and Kim-
ball and some others took a trip up the river
on this side to-day to find out a nearer road to
the place where they want to go, they returned
and held a council.	*	*	It is con-
templated to start on to-morrow or next day
and to go to some place to settle down and pre-
pare for winter.
	To-day, by Bro. K.'s advice and arrangement,
the family was divided into three messes, mak-
ing it more agreeable and convenient for all.
*	*	To-day put up my little tent again
*	*	*	Sarah Ann, Helen, Mary
Houston, George Billings and myself are to
occupy it."
	"Monday, 3rd. The weather still fine.	*
Brother Kimball sent ten yoke of oxen down
to the river to help up Bro. Clayton and fami-
ly.	*	*	Bro. Brigham let Bro. Kim-
ball have a quantity of beef to-day, an ox of

[Column 3]
his having jumped off a bridge and broken his
neck this forenoon.	*	The same
day he called the people of the camp together
and told them the intention of moving in the
morning, and received their vote and acquies-
cence in the same. Among other things he in-
formed them that they had found a good road
on the "divide" between the Missouri and Elk
Horn Rivers, and they had no doubt of finding
some good location. We started next morning
and traveled eight miles and encamped on the
prairie."


