FARMINGTON.

	Our Primary Conference was held at the
Centreville meeting house, March 29, 1884:
present on the stand, officers, Mrs. Aurelia s.
Rogers, Mrs. Julia Hess, Mrs. Lucy A. Clark;
Mrs. Mary A. Clark, of the Relief Society,
Prest. Wm. R. Smith, Bishop Nathan Cheeney,
and Brother Nathan T. Porter, and Bro. Wm.
Preece, of South Hooper, and others of the
brethren and sisters.
	The Primaries of Davis Stake are nine in
number, all of which were represented by their
respective presidents. We hold our conference
twice a year; our exercises are similar to those
in other places. The following programme
was attentively listened to:
	Primary address by Miss Mattie Smith, of
Centreville; Singing, "Pilgrims," by a class of
young Misses from East Bountiful; Recitation,
"The Names of the Presidents of the United
States," by master Calvin W. Richards, Jr., of
Farmington; Dialogue, Oscar Layton and Hen-
ry Blood, of Kaysville: "Song of the Seasons,"
by a class from South Bountiful: Recitation,
4th chapter of Bible Questions and Answers,
by a class of boys from North Centreville; Song,
"Don't drink, my boy, to-night," by a class
from Kaysville; an essay by Miss Johanna Sea-
man; Recitation, "Barbara Fritchie," John
Rampton; Song, "Here in our mountain home,"
by a class from North Centreville; The thirty-
seventh chapter of Bible Questions were an-
swered by all the associations combined; Reci-
tation, "The Gambler's Wife," Miss Lottie
Pack; Song, "Jewels," by four girls from Far-
mington; Recitation from Card No. 4 by a
class from South Centreville; Names of the
presidents of the various Stakes of Zion by
Master Mathoniah Thomas; Recitation, "The
Fisherman and the Priest," by Frank Shep-
herd, from Kaysville; "Learning is our Aim,"
by a group from South Centreville; Recitation,
"Good Resolutions," Charles Hogan, of South
Bountiful; Recitation, "Pre-existence," Nathan
Barlow; Singing by a group from Kaysville,
"Go break the news gently to Mother."
	Prest. Rogers expressed herself well pleased
with the reports and the pieces rendered by the
children; also was delighted with their beauti-
ful singing; advised them to continue to carry
out the instructions she had previously given
them in regard to storing up beans. Said the
Relief Society was laying up wheat, and
thought the Primary children could raise beans
and donate a small portion every year.
	Good order prevailed during the meeting.
At noon the officers and members partook of a
nice picnic dinner in what is known as Brother

[Column 3]
Reeves' Hall. The tables were prepared by
the Presidents of the Centreville Associations,
Mrs. Rebecca Porter and Mrs. Fanny Garner,
with their assistants. We do not forget those
young ladies who waited on the tables, serving
hot vegetables, etc.
	Good instructions were given to the children
by the brethren and sisters who addressed them.
					SARAH E. ROBINSON,
							Stake Secretary.


