BERNES OBERLAND AND GLACIERS.

	After finishing my last letter, we visited the
Wartberg, and then rode into the Thuringian
Forest. 'Twas a delightful afternoon, and oh, I
shall take great pleasure in describing it verbal-
ly when I come home; you have read in stories
I am sure of this wonderful forest, but I do not
think anyone could ever imagine its real beauty
without seeing it. I can easily understand how
this Black Forest is the very home of romance.
I have not time or words to write anything des-
criptive of this, it is too grandly magnifient for
any description from me, besides it will be so
much more pleasant when I come home to tell
you all when we are all together again.
	Does Dot still sing, "The Rhine, the Rhine,
the German Rhine?", I have laughed so many
times since I came here and have heard it
played by the military bands, with the thought
of her perched on the topmost limb of an apple-
tree, or hanging in a trapeze in the garden, sing-
ing this national song at the top of her voice.
	The Easter Fair is going on here in Berne now
and it is similar to the fair held in the fall, of
which I have written before. The whirligigs
are out in full force and are most freely patron-
ized. So many children there, and they all seem
to be having such a good time, but then child-
ren always do have good times. What a happy
season is childhood! so full of joys and pleasures,
without a care or anxious thought to mar its
happiness.
	To-day it is warm and bright, almost too love-
ly to stay in the house, and I am so happy with
the thought of being at home again with all my
loved ones, still I have never been homesick at
all, and every hour has been to me so pleasant,
my health has been exceptionally good, and had
it not been for John Q.'s ill health last winter,
I think there would not have been one single
cloud over these bright days. He is perfectly
well now, and looks as hearty and happy as ev-
er, and I get such good news from home, that I
think I am very greatly blessed and feel most
thankful for having had the privilege of com-
ing into this land and seeing so much of the
beautiful earth, and yet I shall be just as grate-
ful to be allowed to come home and see all my
dear friends again, and my own dear home in
Utah's vales.
	As John Q. had never been far into the
Bernes Oberland, and as I had not been at all,
he took a little holiday and we went into that
beautiful and celebrated region. We had a nice
ride on the train as far as Thune, then took the
boat for Interlaken. Lake Thune is one of the
most famous lakes in Switzerland, and no won-
der, for it is indeed very lovely. The water is
the bluest I have ever seen, though they tell

[Column 2]
me not so blue as Lake Geneva, and the sur-
roundings are perfectly charming, not so grand
as the mountains around Lake Lucerne, but
beautiful in the extreme. I wasn't half pre-
pared for the beautiful scenery of the Oberland.
I thought I had seen now so much of the gran-
deur of the Alpine regions that this part would
not surprise me, but I was mistaken, I have
never before seen anything so wild, so weird, so
enchanting as this scenery.
	The Jungfrau, the finest mountain I think in
the whole range of the Alps, was right before
us; and oh, it looked so grand in its mantle of
perpetual snow. One of the largest glaciers is
in this mountain; we visited a cataract; such
an odd, wonderful fall of water, which is fed
from this glacier. Many people ascend the
Jungfrau, though the pass is quite dangerous. A
young English girl made the ascent in Decem-
ber last. Yesterday we went to Grinderwald, a
village not far from Interlaken, through a very
romantic region. It was early in the morning
when we started, and the air was fragrant with
the odor of blooming flowers, and the mountain
villages towered above us, and the women and
children were working in the fields, not broad
fields such as we have at home, but little val-
leys, similar to those one occasionally finds in
our canyons. The little wooden houses are built
right up on top of the hills, and all along the
sides; sometimes there are landslides, which
cause the houses to be torn down; we saw an
immense stone which had broken loose from the
mountain, and in its fall had crushed a house,
with all the family inside, not three years since.
One village in the mountains is covered in with
snow from September until March; the people
live there all the winter and spend their time in
carving wood; it is in these parts that the beau-
tiful wood carving is done, but just fancy never
being able to go out of the house for six or seven
months.
	When we reached Grinderwald we took
horses and rode an hour and a half up the
mountain to a glacier. The animals were sure-
footed and knew the way as well as the guide. I
never had a clear idea of what a glacier was,
and so appreciated still more the great ice moun-
tain. In the ravine between two of the highest
mountains was this great mass of rock, ice and
snow. It has been tunneled out, and we walked
right into the cavern of ice one hundred and
fifty feet, ice above, below, and on every side.
There was inside the most beautiful light I ever
saw, just the faintest, palest blue imaginable, it
made me think, or at least fancy, I had passed
beyond things real and was being shown some-
thing more purely beautiful than that which
belongs to earth. Oh, how I wish you could
have seen it for yourself, words cannot begin to
describe its loveliness. After we had come
from the cavern and had passed on to a hill
where our horses were standing, the blocks of
ice which the present rain and warm weather
had caused to break loose from the glacier came
rolling down over the rocks with a sound louder
than any thunder, and it echoed and re-echoed
through the mountains. The host at the moun-
tain house arranged three cannons and fired
them off for us, the sound and the echoes were
tremendous and terrible. As we rode back a
boy blew an Alpine horn for us, and the echo
was exceedingly beautiful and sweet. These
horns are about five feet long, such queer-look-
ing things.
	I think we have been very fortunate in seeing
Switzerland at this time, it is all green and
beautiful as summer, and a little too early for
tourists. When the season arrives for tourists
the people nearly kill one with their trinkets
for sale, their songs, their horns, and all such
things; we have heard it all and seen the real

[Column 3]
loveliness of the place without so many petty
annoyances. An Englishman whom we met
on the Righi said he thought us very fortunate
in being out of season, for we saw Switzerland
and her people in real life. "In summer the
whole place is a perfect shop." You can imagine
from what I have told you how excessively I
have enjoyed it, but you can't begin to imagine
how lovely it all is, you must see that for your-
self. How can one say mountains are not beau-
tiful and have no charm. It seems almost to
me as though such a person can have no soul.
I shall never tire talking of Switzerland, for I
feel it must be the most beautiful country in
the world, so wonderful, all mountains, rivers
and lakes, its cities are built in ravines, its vil-
lages on the mountain sides.
	We came back to Berne last night quite tired,
though very much delighted with what we had
seen.

