FROM BERNE TO PARIS.

	We left Berne on the 15th of May, going to
Montreux the following morning, and we gave
ourselves the long promised pleasure of visiting
Chillon, (of which I shall at some future time,
write a full description for the EXPONENT).
And then we took the boat and rode the
whole length of Lake Geneva; oh, such a sight;
nothing in the wide, wide world so beautiful
as Switzerland, I know, with its mountains,
lakes and rivers. We spent some time in Gene-
va and then returned to Lausanne, where we
took train for Paris. Geneva, the largest and
most noted city of Switzerland, did not please
me near as much as some of the other Swiss
cities, Zurich and Lucerne for example, but
then, none of them have a more lovely view of
the Alps and the Lake Geneva, which is the
bluest and clearest water I have ever seen; we
had a spendid view of Mont Blanc from every
direction, and for miles as we traveled along the
great, glorious, snowy Alps loomed up before us,
displaying more grandeur than ever, it seemed
to me. I reluctantly bade them farewell, for I
know I shall never see anything so wonderfully
beautiful again, and as we rode along we soon
[---] the valleys and ravines of the [---]
still above them tower the white peaks of the
Alps, until we reached the Swiss borders, and
entered the forests of eastern France. From here
the ride was dull and uninteresting until Dijon
was reached, from there the land presented a
more cultivated appearance and an occasional
chateau relieved the monotony of the plain, lev-
el fields. It was such a change from the var-
ied, smiling scenery of Switzerland that it tired
me exceedingly. We had a delightful journey
to Paris, and I want when I feel quiet and com-
posed to write it up descriptively for the pa-
per.
	Well, here we are in this beautiful city, stay-
ing at La bille's, and well pleased with the lo-
cation, as we are near the centre of this great
metropolis. The first day after we arrived we
spent walking through the boulevardes, first to
the Place de la Concorde, a large open place
which forms the head of the Boulevarde Champs
Elysees, and from which a most beautiful
view can be obtained in every direction; on one
side is the garden of the Tuilleries, another the
Rue Royale, with the famous church of the Mad-
eline in front, another the Champs Elysees, as
far as the eye can reach a long avenue shaded
with lime and chestnut trees, and a continual
stream of people walking or riding back and
forth; at the lower end of this street is the Arc
de Triumph de l'etoile, the largest arch of tri-
umph in the world, and on the fourth side is the
Seine River, crossed by a handsome bridge. The
place is most beautifully ornamented with flow-
ers, statues and fountains, and in the centre, on
he spot where the guillotine stood, now stands


a large Egyptian obelisk. We stayed there some
time looking at all the beautiful monuments,
which bear no mark or thought of the dread-
ful history of the place, but in our minds we
were recalling the horrors that happened on this
very spot. There is no place in Paris which
bears such a history of crime and disaster as
this. I cannot begin to write all we saw, even
in one day, but after I come home we can talk
so much of these streets and the sights of Paris.
We walked through the Park an[-] Avenue of
the Champs Elysees, occasionally stopping to
rest and watch the fashionable throng driving
towards the Bois de Boulogne. After viewing
the Triumphal Arch from all aides we proceeded
down the Avenue Bois de Boulogne to the park
of the same name. There were crowds of peo-
ple there, I never saw so many carriages at once
in all my life.
	Paris has twelve thousand cabs, not to men-
tion the private vehicles, and it seemed to us
that the whole twelve thousand with as many
more private conveyances were there. From
three to six in the afternoon this is the popular
drive and walk, and here at this time can be
viewed with much satisfaction the gaiety of
Parisian life. Returning from the park we
walked through other principal boulevardes,
noting the pretty shops and café[-] and finally
reached the Grand Opera House, but it is need-
less to tell you anything about this as I could
not describe it if I tried, and you have often seen
pictures of it; we hope to view the inside of it
before long, then I can tell you more. We did
not return to our room until quite late, as we
wish to see all that is possible, and one has
much to do every day in such a city as this to
begin to see half the sights.
	To-day it has rained all the day long, and as
the galleries were not open on Monday we have
had to remain a good part of the day, however,
we started out and viewed the principal shops.
Those in the Palais Royal quite disappointed
me, I expected it would be so different. I nev-
er saw so much jewelry in my life; but aside
from the jewelry and Sevres china, the other ar-
ticles were not nearly as nice as those displayed
in the shops opposite the Louvre. There are all
under [---], where we can walk without get-
ting wet, and to-day they were filled with Eng-
lish tourists, who, I suppose, were like us, walk-
ing around to pass the time away which they
otherwise would have spent in the Pere La
Chaise Cemetery, or at Versailles or at some
other interesting place. The streets of Paris are
wide and clean, and the life and bustle almost
bewilders one. I suppose there is no place in
the world to compare with it, but I do not like
it as well as some of the German cities.
	To-morrow we anticipate spending the greater
part of day in the Louvre, and oh, how I wish
you could be with us and see the wonders of art
that we shall be gazing at. Every time I enter a
gallery I think, how Louie would enjoy and ap-
preciate this.
	We get along well everywhere, John Q. has
the most wonderful faculty for finding places; he
has already located all the sights of Paris, and
we go from one place to another as we choose,
without a guide, and without the least difficulty
find whatever place or street we desire.
	We expect now to sail on the 7th of June on
the Oregon, I hope we can, for that is such a
magnificent steamer and is also the fastest sailer
on the Atlantic.
