[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: ONE WHO SAW GENERAL LAFAYETTE. | Author: MARY ELLEN KIMBALL]

ONE WHO SAW GENERAL LAFAYETTE.
	It is indeed a great satisfaction to me to
know that the school children of our nation
have contributed their pennies toward
the erection of the monument in Paris to
America’s great friend, Gen. Lafayette.
	This carries me back to the days of my
childhood, when I saw this great and good
friend to Gen. Washington, who, by the
help of the Deity gained the victory for the
American people and we became a free and
independent nation.
	Now, I must tell you when and how I
saw Gen. Lafayette. It was in the year
1824, on his last visit to America. I was
but a child about seven years of age. My
home was at Whitesborough, four miles
west of Utica, New York. This being the


home of Col. White, it was named for him,
I suppose; and he being a choice friend of
Gen. Lafayette’s, he chose to come there to
make him a visit.
	I shall never forget the bowery erected on
this occasion; so high, and covered with
evergreens and flowers—so lovely I can see
it yet, the floor covered with a nice carpet,
a sofa, a few chairs and a table for the clerk
to write his speech. The floor or platform
being raised about two feet from the ground,
the people must step up there to shake
hands with him, which, of course, every-
body wanted to do.
	I took great pleasure in looking at him.
He was a fine looking old gentleman, about
sixty years of age, I should think. After
speaking, he requested that he might have
dinner under the large oak tree in front of
Col. White’s house, where he had eaten in
the time of the Revolution, with Col.
White. This was done, everybody helping
to do it. The children had the pleasure of
being spectators, and finally went home,
when all was over, hearing the music of
some of the war tunes, I suppose.
	Although I was but a child, I find we
can well remember, and find such things
make a lasting impression on the mind.
		MARY ELLEN KIMBALL.
April 23, 1900.


[Column 1]
