[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: A BEAUTIFUL LIFE. | Author: E. B. W]

A BEAUTIFUL LIFE.
	A very enjoyable social gathering to
celebrate the birthday of one of Utah’s
famous pioneer women of ’47, was
given, at the residence of Mrs. Alonzo E.
Hyde, in honor of her mother, Sister Jane
Ballantyne Taylor, wife of the late Presi-
dent John Taylor, on her reaching the ad-


vanced age of eighty-five years. There
were assembled on that occasion several
women veterans in the Church, the oldest,
the wife of Apostle Orson Hyde, Sister
Mary Ann Price Hyde, who is but one
year younger than Sister Taylor; Sister
M. Isabella Horne, eighty-one years of
age and also a pioneer of ’47. Sister Zina
D. H Young, seventy-nine; Sister
Bathsheba V. Smith, who was seventy-
eight on the 3rd of May, and Sister
Jane S. Richards, seventy-seven. There
were other representative women present
among them Sisters Elmina S. Taylor,
Sarah Jane Cannon, Margaret Y. Taylor,
Matilda M. Barratt and others.
	An elaborate dinner was served, the
beautiful granddaughters of the aged lady
waiting upon the distinguished guests.
Covers were laid for twenty-three, the only
absentee was Sister Priscilla P. Jennings.
Sister Zina pronounced the blessing.
	During the afternoon Sister Maggie C.
Hull entertained the ladies with one of her
choice Scottish ballads. Sister Hull has
just enough of the Scotch accent to ac-
centuate her singing and remind one of
the Highlands and hills of heather.
Naturally the conversation was of a rem-
iniscent character.
	Sister Taylor’s life, if we may be per-
mitted the comparison, has been one
long, sweet poem, with a number of vari-
ations in style and form and here and there
a vein of sadness, though the lines and
rhythm are always inexpressibly tender
and true to upright principle. May her
pure life of integrity to truth, and loyalty to
the Gospel be a shining example to the
daughters of Zion and to all Israel. And
when her light goes out in this world, may
the angels of our Father’s presence lead
her gently through the pearly gates into
everlasting light and life.
						E. B. W.


[Column 1]
