[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | January | Issue: 14 | Title: THE REFORMATION | Author: Unknown]

THE REFORMATION
	Taken within its narrowest limits the
period occupied by the great movement
known as the Protestant Reformation may
be looked upon as commencing with the
year 1517—and drawing to a close in 1545.
It marks the transitional state from long
established Catholicism to a recognized and
growing Protestantism—it commenced with
the teachings of Luther, wherein he re-
nounced much of the Catholic doctrine —and
later the assembling of the Councils of Trent
raised an insuperable barrier between the 
communion of Rome and the Churches of
Protestantism. From that time each com-
munion possessed its distinctive organization
and formulary of faith, and the struggles
which subsequently took place between
Romanism and Protestantism represent
not so much endeavors to bring about, or
resist reform—but endeavors on the part of
each communion to bring about the de-
struction of the other, and the contest which
Luther initiated resulted in complete and
irreparable rupture between the contending
parties.
	The world was tottering on its old foun-
dations when Christianity appeared, the re-
ligion which had sufficed for an earlier time,
no longer satisfied the nations, the mind of
the existing generation could no longer
tabernacle in the convenient forms; the gods

[Column 2]
of the nations had lost their oracles as the
nations had lost their liberty in Rome.
Brought face to face in the Capital they had
mutually destroyed the illusion of their
divinity, a vast void had ensued in the re-
ligious opinion sof mankind—a much simi-
lar condition existed at the birth-time of
Luther and marked the transition from the
mediaeval for the modern era in European
history.
	The corruptions and profligacy of the 
Roman Catholic Church was at its height.
The celebrated and scandalous tax of in-
dulgences are extant, were in full operation, a
mind of the least delicacy would be shocked
at the repetition of the horrors therein con-
tained. Incest was to cost if not detected
five groschen, if known or flagrant, six.
A certain price was affixed to murder,
another to infanticide, adultery, perjury,
burglary &c. "Oh! Shame to Rome," ex-
claims Clauthius of Espera-and we may
add "Oh! shame to human nature," for no
reproach can attach to Rome, which does
not recoil with equal force, on mankind in
general. Boniface VIII. the boldest and
most ambitious of the Popes after Gregory
VII. effected still more than his predecess-
ors had done. He published a call by which
he declared to the Church, that all who
should at that time make the pilgrimage to
Rome, which should take place every hun-
dred years, should there receive plen-
ary indulgence. Upon this, multitudes
flocked from Italy, Sicily, Sardinia, Corsica,
France, Spain, Germany, Hungary, and
other quarters. Old men of sixty and
seventy set out on the pilgrimage and it
was computed 200,000 visited Rome in one
month. All these foreigners, brought with
them rich offerings, and the Pope and the
Romans saw their coffers replenished; the
avarice of the Pontiffs soon fixed the jubi-
lee at intervals of fifty years. Afterward
at thirty three years, and at last at twenty-
five. Then for the greater convenience of the
purchasers and to increase the profits of the
venders, they transferred both the jubilee
and its indulgences, from Rome to all the
market places of Christendom; what others
had been obliged to seek beyond the Alps
each might obtain at his own door.
	The evil was at its height, and then the Re-
former arose. The principle which was de-
signed to govern Christianity had been lost.
	To set up a single caste as mediators
between God and man, and to barter in
exchange for works and penances, and gold,
the salvation freely given by God, such was
Popery.
	To open wide to all, through
Jesus Christ and without any earthly
mediators, and without that power that
called itself the Church, free access to the
gift of God, Eternal Life. Such was
Christianity, and such was the Reformation.
	Popery interposes the Church between
God and man.
	Christianity and the Reformation brings
God and man face to face.
	Popery separates man from God, the Gos-
pel reunited them, such were some of the
teachings of Luther.
	Luther was born on the tenth day of 
November 1433, on St. Martin's Eve, at
Eisleben, Germany. The next day the father
with joy and gratitude carried his son to
St. Peter's Church, they named him Martin
in memory of the day.
	All things were ready, God who prepares
his work for ages accomplishes it when the 
time is come, by the feeblest instruments.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


It is the method of God’s providence, to ef-
fect great results by inconsiderable means.
This law which pervades the kingdom of
nature, is discerned also in the history of
mankind. God chose the reformers of the
Church from the same conditions and world-
ly circumstances, from whence he had be-
fore taken the Apostles. The father of
Luther gradually made his way and estab-
lished at Mansfield two small furnaces for
iron. By the side of these furnaces, little
Martin grew up and it was with the earn-
ings of this industry, that his father was
afterwards able to place him at school. It
was from a Miner’s fireside, that one who
was to recast vital Christianity was to go
forth.
	John Martin in conformity with his pre-
dilections resolved to make his son a scholar.
That new world of light and science which
was everywhere producing vague excite-
ment, reached even to the cottage of the
Miller. The remarkable character and per-
severing application of his son, made John
conceive the highest hopes of his success.
At the age of fourteen Martin with a com
panion, the son of a respectable burgher,
set out for Madgeburg the school of the
Franciscans, Madgeburg was like a new
world to joyous Martin. In the midst of nu-
merous privations, he observed and listened.
A provincial of the Augustine order, was
then preaching with great zeal, the necessity
of reforming religion and the Church.
Perhaps these discourses deposited in the
soul of the youth—the earliest germ of the
thought which a later period unfolded.
	This was a severe apprenticeship for
Luther cast upon the world at fourteen
without friends or protectors. He trembled
in the presence of his masters, and in his
play hours, he and some children as poor
as himself, with difficulty begged his bread.
At Christmas time he remarked, “we would
all go together through the neighboring
villages from house to house, singing, in
concert the usual carols, on the infant
Jesus born at Bethlem,” more than once
over-whelmed with sorrow, he shed many
tears in secret. He could not look to the
future without trembling. One day in
particular, after having been repulsed, from
three houses he was about to return fasting,
to his lodging, when having reached the
place, St. George, he stood before the house
of an honest burgher—motherless and lost
in painful reflections, must he for want of
bread give up his studies and go and work
with his father in the Mines of Mansfield,
suddenly the door opens—a woman appears
on-the threshold, her name was Ursula—
the chronicles of the place call her the Pious,
Shunamite, in remembrance of her who
so earnestly entreated the Prophet Elijah to
eat bread with her. She had more than once
remarked young Martin in the assemblies
of the faithful, she had been affected by the
sweetness of his voice and his apparent
devotion. She now came to his assistance,
bade him enter her dwelling and supplied
his urgent wants.
	Conrad the husband of the good woman
approved his wife’s benevolence, and him-
self found so much pleasure in the society
of young Luther, that in a few days later
he took him to live in his house. From
that moment he no longer feared to be
obliged to relinquish his studies, later on
we find him at a higher institution, of learn-
ing where he most brilliantly distinguished
himself, “the whole University’’ says
Melancthon “admired his genius.”
	[To be Continued.]


[Column One]
	FOREIGN LETTER. 
	[TO MRS. MARY W. MUSSER.] 
	November 7th, 1892.
My Dearest Mother:—
	If my memory serves me well it was just
forty six years ago to day since the world
was made better by the birth of a baby girl,
whose parents, on account of her extreme
loveliness, named her after the queen of
heaven, Mary. Since then this little girl
has grown to womanhood and has proven
beyond a doubt, especially to her large
family of children, of whom I boast being
one that she is the loveliest and best moth-
er in the whole world. Born as our
Savior, though not in a manger, in a place
nearly as humble, a lumber wagon, she
traveled on through her rather humble path-
way until now, forty six years later, she
is, in my estimation, queen Mary II. or
Mary queen of earth with the brightest
kind of prospects of being queen Mary,
with the chosen in eternity. Heaven
bless you dearest mother, and grant that
this birthday is just the noon of your im-
mortal, probation, and that the afternoon
will so out shine the forenoon that the lat-
ter will be lost in darkness. That your
every hour, as the sun grows warmer and
nears the horizon, will be happier and fuller
of real bliss than its precedent. That when
the sun at last sinks to rest, and the angels
come with sweetest music to bear you over
the silvery river, you may be surrounded
by a loving posterity who have lived and
are living in such a way as to insure our
meeting again in that world where all is
love and contentment. This, mother dear,
is my most sincere wish and prayer; could
I wish or pray for more? If so I do with
all my heart for I know the occasion justifies
my so doing. Your birthday! How I
should love to be home to day, to be able to
tell you how much your children love you,
and how hard it is to live away from you.
How impossible! Land and sea to the ex-
tent of ten thousand miles separates mother
from her son. As it is I scarcely have time
to write a respectable letter for I am head
over heels in my Arabic studies, and as I
have employed a teacher to give me a few
lessons I am anxious to make hay while the
sun shines. Besides I have lost so much
time in this mission that it seems I never
can pay up for it, you see when I first came
to Turkey I started to study the Turkish
language, for three months I pegged away
at it and had just got a good start when I
left Constantinople thinking I could study
the language better here in Palestine.
When I arrived here I found that they
spoke nothing but Arabic in this part of the
country. I decided to leave Bro. Haag
here to labor with the Arabs and I would
go farther north where they spoke Turkish
and continue my studying. Bro. Haag was
taken sick and you know the rest. I had
to remain in this part of the country and
accordingly started to learn a third language
in a year and a half, within the year and a
half that I had been away from home, it
seems like I have lost with the Turkish
language about five months, and now I had
to start on another, the most difficult of
all. I know the Lord has blessed me with
this language for I make better progress
than I did with either of the others.
	It is over a month since I heard from any
one on the American side of the Atlantic.
Day after day the Postmaster shakes his
head with a bland smile as I poke mine
through the window with a “Anything for

[Column Two]
Musser this morning?” I am quite sure
some of my mail has been lost on the way.
There was a wreck here a few days ago, I
stood calmly on the shore and watched
twenty five persons drown. Twenty four
hours after, a bunch or package, of my
mail was picked up on shore where the mad
waters had been kind enough to throw it.
It was a package of newspapers that had
been two months on the way. One of the
gentlemen that was wrecked had a letter in
his pocket for me: but in his struggle for 
life he lost it, and I don’t know who it was
from or anything about it. The gentleman
that lost it lost his wife and two bright
children at the same time.
	My health remains “A No!" for which
I feel to thank the Lord. The weather is 
still very hot, the oranges are just getting 
ripe.—I bought a dozen the other day, great
large luscious ones for five cents and I firm-
ly believe, by the way the orange vender
smiled as he pocketed my cash, that he
charged me three cents too much. Give
my love to father and all the loved ones
and accept a bushel from your affectionate
son. 			Don C. W. Musser.


