Query Box. Hazel Love Dunford. The question has been asked, "How can children best be taught not to be wasteful? Mrs. E. C., Salt Lake City. When children are very small they should be taught not to leave food on their plates if they do not want it, do not force; them to eat it, but see that the next meal brings the left-over food before them. If one is persistent in this particular, soon the child will learn to judge just the exact amount that will be eaten. A child should be taught to take care of his toys and not be wasteful with them. Arrange to have a place for his playthings and then require him to put his many things in order. There is no better way to teach this important thing than by example. Will you please tell me what the "citrus fruits" are and name — some of them? L. M. T., Ephraim, Utah. These fruits belong to the same family as the citron and are especially useful in the diet. In the group there is the pomels or grapefruit, the orange, lemon, lime and kumquats. Will you kindly send me full information of how to knit a stocking size 9? Subscriber. The number of stitches depends on the yarn used. For Spanish yarn 24 stitches on each of three needles is sufficient. Knit until stocking is long enough to reach the calf of the leg, ribbing a few inches at the top if desired, and making one seam stitch all the way down. Knit to three stitches from seam, nar- row, knit one, seam, knit one, narrow, knit five rounds, narrow as before, knit five rounds, narrow, knit four rounds, narrow knit four rounds, narrow. Knit four inches. For the heel Count stitches all around, put half on same needle as seam stitch, with seam stitch exactly in center. Knit once across needle, turn, knit across with seam stitch for the inside, alternate until a straight piece three inches long has been made. To turn the heel: ist method, knit to three stitches from seam, narrow, seam, knit one, narrow, knit one, turn. Knit to first narrowing, narrow again, taking together the two stitches which were wider apart than the rest. Knit one, turn, knit to two wide apart stitches, and then knit together repeat until you are knitting the entire; row. 2nd method, knit to about five stitches past center, nar- row, knit one, turn. Knit to five past center, narrow, turn. Re- peat until only the 11 center stitches are left. When knitting with only two needles always use the seam stitch on the inside to make it match the rest. The seam stitch in the leg and heel is for convenience in marking the center and may be omitted if — — : QUERY BOX. 279 desired. Toe take off the heel: Pick up the stitches along the edge of the heel, knitting each one as it is picked up. Rearrange stitches on needle so that the middle stitch of one needle is half way around from middle stitch of heel. On each side of this stitch put one-sixth of the total stitches that were on a round before the heel was started, leaving the remainder equally dis- tributed between the other two needles. On each row knitted, narrow on the two back needles, four stitches from the front needle or needle on top of the foot and continue narrowing until all needles have same number of stitches. Knit until foot is about Gyo inches long. To narrow the toe, narrow once on each end of each needle, four stitches from end knit foui rounds. ; Repeat four times. Narrow three stitches from end and three rounds between, repeating three times two stitches from end and; two rounds between, twice. Then narrow one stitch from end, on every round until only three stitches are left on each needle. Slip all stitches on two needles as evenly divided as possible. The two needles will then lie flat side by side. Knit two stitches (one from each needle) together, all the way across, all the time slip- ping the first stitch made in this way over the second, so that at the last you have only one stitch left. Pull the end of the yarn through this stitch, and with a darning needle sew the yarn firmly down into the goods. Ellen Brentnor. It is perfectly astonishing to me, that some parents, teachers and periodicals, make the claim that it is old-fashioned and should be done away with, for children to say Sir: ! Ma'am Yes sir! ! No sir! Yes Ma'm No Ma'am! (The latter pronounced as! Madam, leaving the "d" out.) Can it be called a fashion at all? Is it not one of the most important civilities in life, which all children should observe, and which should continue in use as long as the world stands? What will more quickly, and effectually, make heathens of our children, and destroy in them proper respect for all grown people, than if they are allowed to answer parents, white-haired grandparents, the Bishop, the Governor with — What! Huh! Yep! Nope! You bet! I did not! Now you're whistlin' ! etc., et. It gives me a shudder of horror and appre- hension. Anxious, Mesa, Arizona. From early infancy children should be taught to be polite and courteous, and this can be taught in no better way than in re- quiring them to speak properly to their elders. It is not always necessary that they say, "Yes Ma'am," and "No Sir," but by all means they should be taught to say something besides "Yes," and "No." and their equivalents. Yes. Mother. No. Lady, or What, Sir, Ves, Brother Jones, etc. These little civilities once thoroughly learned in youth will be of benefit to a child all his life, and is always a mark of goofl breeding.