[Vol47 | March 1960 | Sequence: 00 | Category: Article | Title: V47_03_00_Misc]
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - = = = - = Second Counselor Hulda Parker - - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Josie B. Bay Elna P. Haymond Elsa T. Peterson Edith S. Elliott Christine H. Robinson Annie M. Ellsworth Irene B. Woodford Florence J. Madsen Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Fanny S. Kienitz Leone G. Layton Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron Elizabeth B. Winters Blanche B. Stodderd Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt LaRue H. Rosell Evon W. Peterson Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Jennie R. Scott Aleine M. Young Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen Manwaring

VOL. 47 MARCH 1960 NO. 3

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Copyright 1959 by General Board of Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Editorial and Business Offices: 76

HAWAII TOURS March 17, 1960, April 27, 1960, June 5, 1960, November 20, 1960. The tour leaving on June 5th is a special tour planned by ship. SOUTHERN TOUR March 23, 1960 Nephi, Mesa, St. George, Los Angeles for eight glorious days. HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT July 31, 1960 NORTHWESTERN TOUR June 25, 1960 — Two weeks June 27, 1960 — One week, Cardston, Canada DISNEYLAND TOUR AND LOS ANGELES July 1960 This is a very well supervised tour for children. Ask for folders of our many other tours MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 So. 23rd East, Salt Lake City, Utah Phones CR 7-6334, AM 2-2337, IN 6-2909 Mason & Hanlin The Stradivori of Pianos EVERETT PIANOS Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built THE WORLD'S FINEST Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built We specialize in all music for Relief Society Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Page 207 Birthday Congratulations One Hundred One Mrs. Emma HANSGEN Provo, Utah

The price is twenty cents, including postage. Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1959 issues of The Relicf Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. (See advertisement on page 209.) 'The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.50, leather $3.80, including the index. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the 1959 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. She American Red Cross and Sis Campaign for Nlembers and Funds Theodore V. Houser Volunteer National Chairman for Members and Funds HE, Red Cross volunteer is a respected symbol of the American's traditional concern for his brother's well-being. The story of the Red Cross begins with its volunteers. Internationally, the organization was founded by volunteers. It was brought to this country by volunteer leadership. Here in America, the Red Cross took deep root because the tradition of neighbors volunteering to help one another and their communities is part of our national and spiritual heritage. 'The past year found the American Red Cross not only carrying on its more familiar responsibilities — those of disaster relief, training in first aid, swimming, lifesaving, and home nursing, providing blood for the sick and injured, and helping servicemen, veterans, and their families — but also mobilizing to mect other challenging situations.... Although the Congressional charter under which the Red Cross operates imposes specific duties and responsibilities upon the organization, it receives its financial support solely from the voluntary contributions of the American people. At this time, when the American Red Cross holds its annual campaign to enlist our active participation, and, in many communities, our financial support of its Nation-wide and world-wide activities, its achievements warrant our continued support. It is fitting that all of us join in supporting the Red Cross in its annual campaign for members and funds, being conducted throughout the month of March, to secure the volunteers and the money needed to carry on its important work. 180 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 Turnip GREENS 3 Ibs. Turnip greens "2 tsp. Salt v2 c. Water 4 slices salt pork 1 tsp. Sugar Wash and drain the greens. Place in large kettle with the water, sugar, and salt. Drop in the pork and boil until tender. Serve immediately. Grits 1 Cc. Grits 1 tsp. Salt 4 c. Boiling water 1 tbsp. Butter Pour grits mto boiling salted water and stir until water returns to a boil. Lower the flame and let simmer slowly for one hour, stirring frequently. When ready to serve, add butter and beat well for a few minutes. BLACKBERRY COBBLER 2 cans (8% oz.) blackberries 1 recipe pastry topping 72 ¢. Sugar 1 egg white 1 tbsp. Butter or butter substitute sugar Combine blackberries, sugar, and shortening; heat until shortening is melted. Pour into eight inch square pan. Roll pastry dough on floured surface into a square slightly smaller than pan. Arrange on top of berries; cut steam vents. Brush topping with egg white; sprinkle with sugar. Bake at 400 degrees I', for twenty-five to thirty minutes. Yield four to five portions. Pastry Torpinc 1 c. Sifted flour 1 egg yolk dash of salt 2 tbsp. Water "% ¢. Butter or butter substitute Sift flour with salt, cut in shortening; add egg yolk and watcr; stir until dough is formed. Sweet Porato Pir 2 c. Sweet potatoes, boiled % c. Milk % stick butter "2 tsp. Nutmeg (or to suit taste) 6 egg yolks 6 egg whites (meringue) 1 c. Sugar (or less, to suit taste) sugar Boil vellow yams till tender, peel, mash, and put through a sieve, if they are stringy. While yams are hot, mash the butter in with them so it will melt. Beat egg yolks and sugar together and mix with the potatoes. Add milk and nutmeg, adding extra sugar, if desired, to taste. No other flavoring is used. Mix all together well and pour into uncooked pie shell which has been brushed with melted butter. Bake until filling is firm and crust brown. Add meringue made from egg whites and sugar. Return to the oven till topping is golden brown, or serve with whipped cream, instead of meringue. Sufficient for two pies. Bake at 350 degrees I'. For thirty-five to forty minutes. Hal Saamel AZALEA ERE, simply stated, is basic information to dispel the myths, to mform you concerning the whys and wherefores of healthy house plants — how to light, water, feed, pot, and multiply them. One of the joys of indoor gardening is that it is never out of season. House plants, with glossy green foliage or bright-colored blooms, can keep memories of spring and summer alive, no matter what the calendar may say or how the cold winds blow. Plants are ornaments for the room you live in. You increase your pleasure by selecting and placing plants where they will be tasteful room accents, often the finishing touch that completes an effective CYCLAMEN SMALL POTS — VIOLA Whys.

$2.50; Leather Cover—$3.80 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed helow if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Vida Fox Clawson Travel Center Dear Friend: If you are interested in HAWAII, remember we have tours going every month. EUROPEAN TOUR 1960 is a most important year for a trip to Europe because of the PASSION PLAY at Oberammergau, Germany, which is g: ven only once every ten years. HISTORIC TOURS Send for a day by day HISTORIC TOUR PROGRAM — all of which will include the HILL CUMORAH PAGEANT. Programs for 1960 are ready for Europe, Hawaii, and Historic Train and Bus Tours. Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 216 South 13th East Salt Lake City 2, Utah Phone: DA 8-0303 Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 2000000..35 150 to 300 miles 0000. 39 300 to 600 miles 00.0. 45 600 to 1000 miles oo 54 1000 to 1400 miles o. Oo. Cess. 664 aT 1400 to 1800 miles 2 76 Beginning and adOver ¥800 miles 0.0.87 vanced classes start Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah soon. Type your letters, minutes, reports, genealogy sheets, etc. LDS BUSINESS COLLEGE 70 North Main — EM 3-2765 Salt Lake City, Utah NEWLY REVISED THE NAKED COMMUNIST W. CLEON SKOUSEN -— DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find check ii i I ll ST money order I have an account. Please 5 charge. Amount enclosed $ 0 00 eeeeeeeee for (1) From Within These Walls [() The Naked Communist. NAM ececcecececscsecccenecceccccsseecersssscccccceccecssecsencsceeees ACAFeSS 0 cccceccceneceescecccecaceccceneceecceccceeeceeceececeeeseeces: 05 I aZone -State Residents of Utah include 214% sales tax. I 60 A NEW BOOK FROM ELDER RICHARD L. EVANS FROM WITHIN THESE WALLS This latest (Eighth) volume contains a new selection of the "Spoken Word" broadcasts from "The C