[Vol47 | March 1960 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: 186 The Relief Society Magazine in Durban, South Africa Muriel Wilson]
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 Turnip GREENS 3 Ibs. Turnip greens "2 tsp. Salt v2 c. Water 4 slices salt pork 1 tsp. Sugar Wash and drain the greens. Place in large kettle with the water, sugar, and salt. Drop in the pork and boil until tender. Serve immediately. Grits 1 Cc. Grits 1 tsp. Salt 4 c. Boiling water 1 tbsp. Butter Pour grits mto boiling salted water and stir until water returns to a boil. Lower the flame and let simmer slowly for one hour, stirring frequently. When ready to serve, add butter and beat well for a few minutes. BLACKBERRY COBBLER 2 cans (8% oz.) blackberries 1 recipe pastry topping 72 ¢. Sugar 1 egg white 1 tbsp. Butter or butter substitute sugar Combine blackberries, sugar, and shortening; heat until shortening is melted. Pour into eight inch square pan. Roll pastry dough on floured surface into a square slightly smaller than pan. Arrange on top of berries; cut steam vents. Brush topping with egg white; sprinkle with sugar. Bake at 400 degrees I', for twenty-five to thirty minutes. Yield four to five portions. Pastry Torpinc 1 c. Sifted flour 1 egg yolk dash of salt 2 tbsp. Water "% ¢. Butter or butter substitute Sift flour with salt, cut in shortening; add egg yolk and watcr; stir until dough is formed. Sweet Porato Pir 2 c. Sweet potatoes, boiled % c. Milk % stick butter "2 tsp. Nutmeg (or to suit taste) 6 egg yolks 6 egg whites (meringue) 1 c. Sugar (or less, to suit taste) sugar Boil vellow yams till tender, peel, mash, and put through a sieve, if they are stringy. While yams are hot, mash the butter in with them so it will melt. Beat egg yolks and sugar together and mix with the potatoes. Add milk and nutmeg, adding extra sugar, if desired, to taste. No other flavoring is used. Mix all together well and pour into uncooked pie shell which has been brushed with melted butter. Bake until filling is firm and crust brown. Add meringue made from egg whites and sugar. Return to the oven till topping is golden brown, or serve with whipped cream, instead of meringue. Sufficient for two pies. Bake at 350 degrees I'. For thirty-five to forty minutes. Hal Saamel AZALEA ERE, simply stated, is basic information to dispel the myths, to mform you concerning the whys and