[Vol47 | March 1960 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Wilson]
Hal Rumel GRAPE VINE IVY RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 plant get completcly dry at this time, flower buds may be damaged so severely they will never open. In bitter winter weather, move plants away from the window at night, if there is danger of frosting when the house temperature drops. The most successful window garden will be the one that is planned to suit the plants it includes in regard to light, temperature, and water. If you have a suitable south window, you can grow almost any house plant. Always use the most attractive containers you can find, and _preserve a polished look by regularly wiping foliage. The luxury look comes easily and quickly to your rooms when you invest in suitable plants of larger size. Or, if time is not important, you can start with young ones and enjoy them as they grow. VY prospers in bright light, but not direct sun; it must have a well-drained soil, and the soil must never be allowed to become severcly dry. Ivy is beautiful combined with geraniums, especially for kitchen decor. Grow ivy in water in a dark green vase that disguises the roots. Ivy is pretty in a_ basket allowing the ivy to trail over the handle. Wicker bread _ baskcts serve aS appropriate plant containers in the kitchen. The pickaback plant ranks with the hardier plants. A major attraction is its curious habit of putting out new plants at the base of old leaves, thus its popular name. Grow this plant in bright light and a moist soil. Grape ivy, another hardy plant, requires a light and well-drained soil, always allowing surface soil to WHYS, WHEREFORES, AND FUN WITH GREEN PLANTS 183 Hal Rumel pe ee eS PHILODENDRON PERTUSUM (Cut Leaf) become dry before adding water, it tolerates low light and humidity better than common ivies. Monstera philodendron is a favorite of decorators because of its sophisticated appearance. 'The several varieties of monstera require brighter light than philodendrons or the leaves will not split to the extent that they should. They require sufficient moisture to keep the soil moist but not wet. Philodendron dubia, the common variety of philodendron, needs light and humidity. Philodendrons on totem poles do much better if care is taken to moisten the moss stick at times. Trileaf wonder, a_ variegated green plant, is easy to grow in low light and a loamy soil. If you like small dramatic plants, try the peperomias. They like medium heat and careful attention given so as not to overwater. Peperomias come in plain green, variegated, or watermelon variety. Regardless of size, dracemos (dracaena), in general, thrive in damp soil and require at least medium light. If the leaves become brown, it is usually a sign of improper watering — too little or too much. 'There are a number of interesting species, and they have leaves that are long and_ broad, striped in white or yellow. The Boston fern wears spring's tender green all year long. As natives of tropical regions, ferns dislike cold. In wintertime set ferns back from the window so that the frond ends do not touch the cold glass. 184 Hal Rumel FICUS DECORA (Rubber Plant) They thrive best in a sixty-five degree temperature. Aspidistra grows where nothing else will. It is often called the castiron plant and grows best in an out-of-the-sun location. For appearance sake, clean the leaves of this plant often with a commercial solution or plain water, so that its somewhat leathery foliage will be at its glossy best. HE rubber plant will grow to tree size. It makes a handsome room decoration, and withstands neglect and lack of sunlight, but do not overwater this plant. Pandanus has a sword-like leaf and thrives in a warm indoor temperature. Water the pandanus moderately in summer and kcep it on the dry side in winter. Dieffenbachias flourish in locations receiving filtered light. These are luxuriant plants that catch and hold attention in any room setting. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 They grow best in a well-drained soil, rich in organic matter. They need filtered light to prosper. All cactus plants are succulent, which means they have the ability to store water, so they need little water. Succulent plants take on so many fascinating shapes and forms, and so many have dwarf, or small growth patterns, that they make ideal house plants. Heir sculptural appearance calls for unusual containcrs. Everyone loves flowering house plants. Their fresh blooms, somctimes fragrant, always colorful, catch and hold the eye of all who cnter the room. One can, if she plans ahead, have a variety in bloom all year. Perpetual bloomers are the begonias and African violets. Geraniums will reward you with ten long seasons of blooms. Cuttings rooted in the late summer bring fall and winter blooms, in addition to spring and summer flowcring. Hal Rumel DIEFFENBACHIA (Rudolph Roehrs) WHYS, WHEREFORES, AND FUN WITH GREEN PLANTS 185 Grow these house plants for the gifts of color and freshness they bring to your home. You can have the spring plants such as daffodils, hyacinths, and tulips many weeks ahead of time by a process known as "forcing" (which means to bring to bloom at earlier than normal date). The larger the bulb the more simple it is to force. The later the bulb blooms out of doors the harder it will be to force indoors successfully. Yclamen plants require a sunny spot and lots of water. Pour the water at edge of the pot and not into the plant crown. Poinsettias come in pink, white, and red, and these plants are easily damaged by chilling. Keep them always away from a draft. When warm weather comes, cut the stems back and set the plants out in the garden in a sunny location, then bring them indoors before frost. A bloom-laden azalea will keep its show for many weeks. Keep it in good light but in a fairly cool location. Water each day just enough so that it will require moisture the next day. Geranium plants need regular pruning to keep them growing in a bushy, pleasing shape. The stems cut off can then be rooted to give healthy new plants. 'Take cuttings three to five inches long just below a joint, plant about two inches deep in vermiculite or coarse sand. Keep cuttings in the shade until the roots begin to form, then move into the sun. When the roots are one and a half to two inches long, cuttings are ready to pot. Provide for good drainage. Pinching — encourages branching on a young plant. Hydrangeas require indirect light, wet soil, and prefer a cool room. As many plants are killed each year from "overcare" as die from neglect. Most plants need good light and thrive best (out of drafts) at temperatures of seventy to seventy-five degrees. Examine the soil each day and add water uniformly when the soil starts to dry out. 'The soil should be moist clear to the bottom of the container. Fertilize monthly with a commercial plant food. More and more decorators are using green plants as important decorative elements in furnishing a room. 'They choose large plants to punctuate a focal point or camouflage an architectural defect. Always select plants to the proper scale of your room and remember verdant plants give a home a touch of personality. Announcing the Special April Short Story Qssue HE April 1960 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with four outstanding stories being presented. Look for these stories in April: "Uncle Matt and the China Doll," by Sylvia Probst Young "To Die Before Thy Time," by Helen Bay Gibbons "Room in Her Heart," by Shirley Thulin "That Special Flavor," by Dorothy S. Romney. An Ounce of Precaution Mabel Harmer HE members of the Marshall family were enjoying their usual sound sleep one night when the father was awakened by the smell of smoke. After arousing his wife, he rushed into the next room and jerked the two eldest boys out of bed. He didn't take time to investigate whether or not there was any danger. He simply shouted, 'Fire! Scoot!" The lads grabbed bathrobes and scooted. He went across the hall, picked up Debbie and Dina, the six-yearold twins, and followed the boys outside. He knew that Mrs. Marshall had already escaped with the baby and two-year-old Jean. It had taken less than three minutes for all of the family to get out of the house. Only then did he go back inside to phone to the fire department. How was it that each one knew exactly what to do in case of such an emergency? It was because Mr. Marshall had taken the precaution of holding a fire drill the very day the family had moved into the new home. It was still so new that the blaze had started from paint cloths left too close to a radiator. Fortunately, the fire was confined to one room. Still more fortunate —due to that ounce of precaution— the family escaped safely. Almost every day, especially during the cold winter months, the newspapers carry headlines of death by fire. More often than not, the victims are children. Surely many of the deaths could be prevented. Page 186 What could be more simple than taking the family through a fie drill, showing them how to get out if the stairways, or other usual exits are cut off? Why not teach children such simple procedures as keeping their heads near the floor if a room is heavy with smoke, or, if possible, to put a wet towel over the nose and mouth to assist in breathing. One young woman who lost her life in an apartment house fire, could have been saved if she and her husband had felt the door to find out if it was hot, before opening it to let in the death-dealing smoke. They could both have escaped through the window. As it was, he lost hold of her hand in the darkness and only he reached the window alive. One more simple precaution. Everyone who is old enough should memorize the telephone numbcr of the fire department. Often one is too excited to look it up correctly. Sometimes there are no lights by which one can look it up. The least anyone can do is to have the number on a card above the phone, along with that of the police department and the family doctor. AST year there was a total of over 35,000 deaths on the highway. Next to this avenue as an exit from life, the home takes dubious second honors as a setting for accidental death. If adults choose to risk their lives by improper wiring, driving through the night when half asleep, or climbing on unsteady ladders, there isn't much anyone AN OUNCE OF PRECAUTION can do about it. But children are different. We should do everything in our power not only to protect them from danger, but also to teach them how to help protect themselves. One conscientious young mother in our neighborhood has trained her children to come home and ask permission before eating any candy that may be given to them. She conceived the idea so that she could keep track of how much they ate, and when, but the rule paid off in another way. Five-year-old Ann was playing out with friends when they found some "candy" in a garbage can. Why people will be so criminally careless as to put dangerous pills or poison out where youngsters can get hold of them is beyond comprehension, but it does happen. The other children urged Ann to eat the "candy" but, true to her training, she went home first to ask permission. The pills were labeled For adults only, to be taken sparingly. Had the child eaten them in any quantity, the result might have been disastrous. How many children have been killed or maimed by having firearms pointed at them in play? One such tragedy occurred on Christmas day with a weapon that had been given as a gift. As is usually the case, this gun was "unloaded." It is only common sense — although far too uncommonly exercised — to make sure that all firearms in the house are unloaded and are out of the reach of children. But one should go a step further than this and insist that, even in play, no child aims even a toy weapon at another child's head. 187 The dread of every parent is that a child may be molested by a sex pervert. It is not wise nor necessary to frighten a child unduly, but there are certain precautions that can and should be taken. Fortunately, many school officials are now taking the responsibility of teaching children how to avoid such dangerous encounters. First of all, a child should be warned never to get into an automobile with a stranger. Even going for a visit in the same neighborhood, it is a simple matter to have the child telephone and let mother know that she has arrived at her friend's house. Two small girls who lived in the suburbs had been instructed that they should never get into an automobile with anyone except friends of the family. When a man who lived in the same neighborhood, offered to drive them home from the end of the bus line, they accepted with provision, "First you must give us your telephone number, in case anything happens to us." The neighbor gravely wrote down his phone number, then drove them safely home. 'Their mother impressed the warning a bit more deeply for the future. HERE are certain danger spots besides automobiles that children should be warned about. Foremost among these are movie houses, rest rooms, and public parks. Recently, police dogs have been added to the force that patrols the parks of some cities. 'They are valuable in flushing out anyone who might be lurking in the shrubbery. When a movie is being shown that will attract a large audience of chil- 188 dren, the public safety department has a number of extra officers on hand. At this writing, the body of a Camp Fire girl has been found, ravished and slain, while selling candy. How easy it would have been for some man to have invited her to step inside the house while he made a purchase. A frend of mine said that after she had invited a Girl Scout indoors to buy her cookies, she warned the girl never to go inside another house. Almost every parent knows the anxiety and terror of having a child lost. In the great majority of cases children return home safely, even after an expedition into unknown streets; however, once in awhile they do not. As soon as he is able to do so a child should memorize his name and address. Even earlier, a simple precaution is to sew his name and address on a tape inside his clothing. Always he should be taught that the policeman is his friend. It is hoped that there is no one so benighted in these days as to frighten a child into good behavior by the threat of calling a policeman. While a dog may be man's best friend, a strange dog, on the other hand, may be a dangerous enemy. Every youngster should be cautioned against petting strange dogs. I shall never forget the agony I suffered when our three-year-old boy was attacked in the face by a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 strange dog. For some time we feared the sight in one eye might be gone. 'True, the dog was tied up and the child should not have gone near; but he didn't know that. We had failed to warn him that all dogs are not playmates. In some places the irrigation ditches and streams claim the lives of an appalling number of tiny victims every year. Increased watchfulness on the part of parents is the most important thing that can be done to lessen the number of these tragedies. But there are some precautions that can be taken with older children, such as_ teaching them to swim. Even in places where it is too far to swim to shore, a child who has learned to handle himself in water may be able to stav afloat and keep from getting panicky until help comes. The rudiments of artificial respiration should be learned, for many a life has been saved by the simple method of breathing into the patient's mouth. No one wants to turn a child into an "accident -chondriac," fearful that any move may send him to a hospital, but it is wise to teach safety rules persistently, one at a time, and parents should see that these rules are practiced. 'The rewards may be the saving of a life, and the life you save may be that of your own child. >< Tlorning Zata Sabin Bird songs waken me — sparrow or lark, Or maybe a robin or wren. Coolness, like gauze, lies over the town. Day is beginning again. Offerings of the Heart Frances C. Yost ARJORIE Martin tied the bow under tiny Julie's chin and said, '""There, the little sunbonnet Mommie made for you will keep those old freckles off Julie's smiling face." She patted her little daughter lovingly and added: "Have fun in the yard, Juhe darling, and don't put anything in your mouth." "Bye bye, Mommie," — Julie mouthed the words joyfully. Her little face wreathed in smiles under the sunbonnet. "Back soon!' She was gone out into the warm morning sunshine. "Julie talks very well for her age," Marjorie's mother-in-law said, as she picked up the dish towel to dry the dishes Marjorie had started washing. "Yes, Julie does talk nicely," Marjorie agrced. "Why, she won't be two years old until July, and already she can make her every want known. Since Dan fenced in the back yard so securely, do you think I make a mistake turning her out alone, Mother Martin?" "Why, I think she's all nght for a spell, but she bears watching. All children do." Mother Martin laughed a little. "I can watch her every movement while I wash the dishes here at the sink," Marjorie said. "Oh, oh, she's picking those nasty dandelions. It's just like her to cart them in the house, and want them stuck in a flower vase. Well, I'm not having the house overrun with those ugly weeds, as some doting mothers do! Pll nip bringing bouquets to mother before she starts." Marjorie quickly dried her hands and started for the door. "Just a minute, Marjorie. I think I should tell you about Emily," Mother Martin said gravely. "Who on earth is Emily?" "Temily is a little girl [ knew very well, long ago." Mother Martin kept drying dishes as she spoke, but her eyes had a faraway look. Emily didn't have a thing to give her mother, and she wanted so much to give her something nice, for Mother was always giving her something, or doing something for her. It was springtime, and the wild flowers were in bloom, and so Emily decided to gather a lovely bouquet of flowers for Mother, and give them with her love. Emily started gathering the flowers, but the wild flowers were scattered. Emily was not even aware of the time or energy she was using as she climbed over crags and rocks and even walked where the ground was slippery and muddy for a pretty flower to add to her tiny bouquet. The day wasn't overly hot, but it took a long time to find the flowers, and some of the first ones had wilted in her sweaty little hands. At last Emily had a nice little bouquet of flowers of many colors, and proudly she retraced her steps towards home. The walk, ordinarily, would have seemed long, but today Emily thought of the pretty smile on Mother's face when she would see the lovely little bouquet of wild flowers. In her excitement, Emily forgot Page 189 190 the mud on her feet, forgot to clean them on the mat. Instead, she rushed into the house calling, "See what I have!" "T see what you have, mud on your shoes!" Her mother expostulated. Mother came toward Emily, but she wasn't wearing her "'nice-tosee-you-smile.'"" Mother's face looked like the old cracked earthen bow] turned over. Then Mother spoke sharply: "Get those ugly weeds out of my house, and clean your feet before you come in. I've scrubbed and cleaned all day, and I'm tired!" MILY turned and ran from the house, still clutching the wild, wilted flowers in her hot, little hand. As she rushed toward the old woodshed, she felt tears splashing on her cheeks. She crept into the woodshed and shut the door tightly. Emily had built a little playhouse in the corner, where the wood had been used, but she wasn't in the mood for playing house now. She wasn't crying aloud as she sometimes did. She was sobbing, big, gasping sobs that she could not control, could not stop. Emily fell exhausted on the slivery floor, and sobs shook her body, and the tears kept splashing on her cheeks. Later, Emily laid out the flowers one by one on Daddy's greasy old work bench. Mother was right, they looked old now, but if the little flowers had a drink of water, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 they would look pretty. When she was all hot and tired, a drink of water made her look better, and feel better. 'The flowers were only thirsty and tired. 'They were not old and ugly, as Mother had said. Just thinking of mother and the flowers made Emily start to cry all over again. But this time she just cried silently, inwardly. She had so wanted to surprise Mother, give her a nice present. Make her eyes light up and her face smile and smile and smile all day. Mother Martin's story culminated when a childish little knock was heard on the back door. Marjorie went to open it. "Look, Mommie, flowers for you." Julie's face was wreathed with joy, as she extended a handful of dandelions to her mother. "Why, Julie, these are pretty as primroses. 'Thank you so much, my little darling." Marjorie stooped to kiss the tiny forehead under the little sunbonnet. 'Then she turned to Mother Martin. "Do you mind if I ask who was little Emily, of the generous heart?'' "I was christened Emily May. When I grew older I was just known as May," Mother Martin explained. Marjorie's voice had an almost reverent quality when she said: "Thank you, Mother Martin, for teaching me a very important lesson in life." <> (Dreams Celia Luce ie is more important that I help my child to dream and teach him how to make his own dreams come true than that I fulfill all his dreams for him.