[Vol47 | March 1960 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Houser]
[The American Red Cross and Its Campaign for Members and Funds Theodore V. Houser]

ition in which man can live and maintain good mental health. We have learned through centuries of expericnce that a commandment alone does not make a person love another. We _ have learned that if a person is filled with hate and anger and hostility, attempts to command and legislate kindness and mercy and love appear to have essentially failed. The development of such traits and characteristics will result from living in healthy conditions which nurture and promote feelings of love that spontaneously flow from within the individual. If sincere men and women the world over could unite in an earnest effort to supplant feelings of selfishness, hatred, suspicion, and greed, with feelings of kindness, mercy, justice, and service to others, then leaders would think more of men than of the success of a system, and they would thereby promote the peace and happiness of mankind. 'There is no road to universal peace which does not lead into the hearts of humanity The challenge and task of follow- 163 ing the pathway to peace obviously rest upon the shoulders of each of us. It will take all of us working diligently together to create a world of peace-loving people, to develop within ourselves the skill, the capacity, the desire to live harmoniously, creatively with one another, to love the Lord, to love oneself, to love one's neighbor, to love one's enemies, to create within our homes the kind of environment which will produce loving personalities in our children. This means we must search for self-understanding, for inner peace, contentment, serenity, while, at the same time, maintaining sufficient feelings of dissatisfaction that we have the propelling drive and urge to improve the life situation. We must realize that the power to love does not come full-grown into our lives. It does not come by mere admonition, nor by logical, verbal proof of its importance. To promote love among men requires that we do more than talk about it, that we actually promote situations and create atmospheres in which love will spontaneously flourish without being admonished to do so. It must form a very core of our lives as we attempt to live and practice a religion of love. Not by seeking the superficial things of life, but rather as love springs from the individual's heart will we find the peace of Christ. Bluebird Eva Willes Wangsgaard I tried to capture April weather, Spin song of fragrance lilacs bore. But a poet wearing a bright blue feather Sang all that I knew to sing and more. the Sowtheay, States iimias Preston R. Nibley Assistant Church Historian NE of the first missionaries to labor in the states which later were included in the Southern States Mission, was Wilford Woodruft who, as early as 1834, traveled through and held mectings in Arkansas, Tennessee, and Kentucky. Converts were baptized and several small branches of the Church were established. In 1839 Jedediah M. Grant began missionary work in Virginia. Other elders followed, but it was not until 1875 that the Southern States Mission was organized, with Henry G. Boyle as president. 'The States included in the new mission were Tennessee, Arkansas, Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi, and Virginia. As the work of the mission increased, a number of adjoining States were added, including Ohio, North and South Carolina, Kentucky, Maryland, 'Texas, Louisiana, and Florida. The headquarters of the Southern States Mission was first established in Nashville, Tennessee. It was later changed to Chattanooga, 'I'ennessee, then to Atlanta, Georgia. Presidents of the mission who served from the time of its organization until 1933 were: Henry G. Boyle, 1875-78; John Morgan, 1878-83; Brigham H. Roberts, 1883-84; William Spry, 1888-91; J. Golden Kimball, 1891-94; ¥ (ee wees ae Sr FAN Courtesy Atlanta Chamber of Commerce Submitted by Lucile W.