[Vol47 | March 1960 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Fiction | Title: A | Author: Pezoldt]
[A Quick Fade-Out Sylvia Pezoldt]

In addition to her own daughter, she has reared six otherwise homeless girls, and a grandson, who lived in her home for twelve years. She also provided for the education of the six foster daughters. Mrs. Carne is a gifted painter, specializing in landscapes, and floral and fruit subjects. Iicr work exemplifies much ability in design and the use of color. She has also made more than twelve hundred beautiful aprons, thirty-one quilts, six afghans, several crocheted bedspreads, many hooked and braided rugs, six crocheted dinner cloths, and has made the needle point covers for many chairs. Wer Church work has included service as counselor and as work meeting leader in her ward Relief Socicty. Shis J Know Mabel Jones Gabbott I have seen a burnished sunsct glow Then die, slowly, like famished embers, hushed And still; and felt the soft snow, as it brushed Against my hand, then watched it melt and go; I have seen the petals of the rose Drop one by one, their copper, gold, and rust Curled and crumbled into fragrant dust That pricks beneath boys' summer-barefoot toes. With each I grieve a little; I wonder why. Tomorrow's light will quicken with the dawn, The running snow will wake a new rose leaf; So, too, the sudden tender look, your shy Quick grin, your oft told words — that now seem gone — I shall know again. So why this grief? Page 196 The New Day CHAPTER 6 Hazel K. Todd Synopsis: Lynn Marlow, a dress designer in Chicago, who is engaged to David Talbot, returns to Springdale, her home town, to visit her Aunt Polly and to find out if she has really forgotten an eatly love for Johnny Spencer. Johnny had married a Southern girl and she had died, leaving two children. Lynn meets the children, and, finally, visits with Johnny, who is bitter and withdrawn. Lynn decides that, although she loves David, she must help Johnny to find himself again. She goes with the children to visit a turkcey's nest. Anxious for curious onlookers on her private domain as was Peter. She struck her snakelike head out and hissed her displeasure. "It's just because you're different," Peter explained. "She doesn't care when Lindy and me look at her." "I think we shouldn't bother her," Lynn suggested. "She might leave her nest and not come back." The nest was hidden in the rocks in the forked roots of an old juniper tree. As they turned to leave, Lindy fell down and cut her knee on a sharp rock. Lynn picked the sobbing child up in her arms. "Don't cry, Lindy dear,' she soothed, wiping the tears from her eyes with her handkerchief. "Let's get away where we won't bother that grudging old hen and then we can see what's happened to that poor unfortunate knee, that's always getting hurt." A safe distance from the turkey nest, Lynn sat down on a big rock T HE old turkey was not so and began wiping the dirt from the injured knee. 'There was blood on her dress and a deep cut in the little knee. "We'd better put something on it," Peter suggested, patting his sister's head. "Daddy always puts a bandaid on it when it bleeds." "I'm sure that would be a good idea," Lynn agreed. "Can you take her to the house and fix it up, Peter?" "Oh, I always get it all messed up. Youd better do it." Lynn had a frustrated, helpless feeling, as though she were being dragged into an inevitable pattern of events from which there would be no escape. It was too easy to love these children. Lindy was clinging onto her with her arms tight around her neck. And Peter was waiting expectantly. There was but one thing to do. She breathed a little sigh and started after Peter. In the house Lynn set the little girl on the cupboard by the sink and looked at the cut again. "I am afraid this is too big for a bandaid. Do you have some gauze?"' Peter brought her gauze and a tube of iodine. "Dad always puts this on when we hurt us, even if we cry." As soon as Lindy saw the iodine she began to cry again. "I don't want it! I don't want it!" she cried and started scooting across the cupboard. Lynn laid the tube down. "Let Page 197 198 your Daddy put some on when he comes home." In a few minutes she had the knee all wrapped up and Lindy had ceased her tears. Lynn hfted her gently to the floor. "I must go now." The cuckoo bird from the clock on the wall chirped once, and Lynn looked up, surprised to find it was 11:30. She hesitated. "Is your father coming home for dinner?" "No. But he left some sandwiches in the frig,' Peter said. Leaving two children alone at dinner time wasn't right. Lynn pondered thoughtfully a minute. Should she take them home to have dinner with Aunt Polly? 'That would antagonize Johnny, she was sure, and besides, she was only drawing the children closer to her. Peter was watching her closely. She couldn't stand here in this undecided manner. And then the idea came to her. It was_ farfetched and unreal, but she seized it quickly. "Peter," she said, opening cupboard doors until she had fished out a small pan, "take Lindy and run down by the turkey nest and pick some of the strawberries, will you? They would taste very good with the sandwiches." S soon as the children were gone, she went quickly to the telephone and began thumbing through the phone book, until her finger stopped at the hospital number. She reached for the receiver and then stopped. How could she hope for such a fantastic idea to work! For a second more she hesitated, and then she took the receivRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 er from the hook and repeated the number she had found. "I would like to speak to Miss MayRee Richins,' she said, and waited while they went to find her, almost wishing they would be unable to do so. But in a few minutes she heard the cheery "hello." "This is Lynn Marlow, MayRee," Lynn said, gulping to keep her voice steady. "Why, Lynn, I heard you were back in Springdale. It is nice of you to call." "I am calling about Johnny," Lynn said. There was a moment's silence. And then, "That is a strange thing for you to be calling me about, Lindy Marlow." "Oh, MayRee, please try to understand. I have no interest in Johnny er that is, 1 mean I am going to marry someone else."' She finished lamely, feeling that she had bungled the whole thing. "Well?" MayRee was still waiting for an explanation. "Aunt Polly told me you had tried to help Johnny, that you had both tried and he refused to be helped." "I am afraid, Lindy, you are the only one who could help Johnny." "Would you be willing to try once more? Does it mean anything to you, that you would try?" Again there was a hesitation and then MayRee said, "What do you want me to do?" "IT want you to come to his house and have dinner with his children." There was a gasp, and then MayRee said, "Johnny would annihilate me!" "Please give it a try, MayRce. Look, I have sent the children after THE NEW DAY strawberries. 'There are sandwiches in the frig. You can fix something to go with it. Tell them something happened and I had to go back to Aunt Polly's. Could you be here by the time they come back with the berries." "It's the craziest thing I ever heard of." "But you will do it?" "IT guess he can't do more than send me home." As she walked along through the clover to Aunt Polly's, Lynn felt strangely relieved, and yet, almost guilty toward the children who had so quickly come to trust her. Farther on across the meadow she turned to look back at the house, and saw the car stop at the picket gate. As she watched MayRee's trim figure step from the car, she remembered, with an odd sort of feeling, the few jealous pangs she had felt for this girl in those long ago years. She turned back again, with a half smile, and quickened her footsteps to Aunt Polly's. LL afternoon she debated with herself whether to call David or whether to wait to see what happened to MayRee. And then Johnny came. He stood at the door and demanded that she come with him. "Why, of course I will, Johnny," She said. 'I'm so glad you called." Aunt Polly came forward a little Shakily. "Johnny," she said, "It is so good to have you come. Please sit down a minute." But he didn't sit down. He just stood there in the door a hundred miles away, and waited. In the car he kept his eyes straight ahead on the road, and he made no movement toward her and 199 said no word. A half dozen times Lynn planned a way to begin, like "Johnny, you have such lovely children," or "Johnny, couldn't we just talk calmly?" or "Johnny, it is so good to see you again." But the chasm was too deep between them. She was sure anything she said would be the wrong thing. By the time he stopped the car before the drug store, she had given up saying anything. I'll just have to wait, she thought. She followed while he led her to their booth and they sat opposite each other. Mr. Jensen stared at them in astonishment and rubbed his chin nervously with his hand. "We want strawberry sodas," Johnny said calmly, "with pink straws." He looked sternly at Mr. Jensen who seemed to be petrified for the moment. "Did you hear?" Mr. Jensen jumped then. Sure, two strawberry sodas." Lynn looked at her soda thoughtfully. I may as well begin somewhere, she thought. "Johnny, it's almost like old times," she said, "I mean, drinking sodas like this." "Only it isn't like old times," he said bitterly, looking at her keenly. "Why, Johnny, I." She gazed into his strained face. "No, I guess it isn't, is it?" She dropped her eyes wearily into her lap. There is no way to reach him, she thought. He was leaning forward toward her across the table. A lock of his dark hair falling over his forehead. "It can never be like old times, can it, Lynn?" And suddenly she realized he was "Oh, 200 asking her to go back to the old relationship. She looked at him sadly. Her heart ached for him. "No, Johnny," she said, "it can never be just like old times." "Then why did you come back? Why did you come to my home?" "I came back — not of my own choosing — but because I had to know." He looked at her awhile then, almost in utter weariness. "Well, now that you know, I will thank you to leave me alone, you and MayRee and everyone else." "But Johnny, we would all like to help you. Your children, you can't do this to them." He had risen from the table. "Johnny," she said in a last effort to reach him. "Oh, don't you see, nothing is hopeless. 'True, we can never go back to the past. It wouldn't be what we wanted anyway. We must always go on. This is a new day with new promises, new." "Come on," he said, "I will take you home." She looked at him sadly. "No, Johnny, Mr. Jensen will take me home," she said. He turned then, and walked out into the spring evening. She looked at Mr. Jensen, standing helplessly before her. He shook his head sadly and fumbled with the napkin on the table. "It's no use," she said. And then, "Do you mind if I call David before we go?" "No, Lindy," he said. Wait here." He sat down at the table and drummed aimlessly on it with his fingers. "Tl just RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 T was wonderful to hear David's voice again. It seemed like half a lifetime since she had last heard it. And the eagerness with which he said her name brought new peace. "Oh, David," she said with tears suddenly coming, "I want so much for you to come and get me! Please leave tonight!" And then all the past heartaches and joys, all the years she had lived, all the problems she had experienced, came to her assistance and she was able to give to David the assurance of her love, pure and sweet in its entirety; save only one heartache which remained for the man she had been unable to free from bondage of the past. She found Aunt Polly waiting on the red couch. "I just called David," Lynn said. "I am going home tomorrow." Aunt Polly nodded her head slowly. "T — I think I will go to bed," Lynn said then. "I will need to get up early and pack." "Yes," Aunt Polly said, laying down her apron on the chair. Then she came over and kissed Lynn on the forehead as she used to do when she was a little girl. "It has been wonderful to have you even for a week." "But Aunt Polly, Pll come back often now." Aunt Polly was gone, then, leaving her standing with the tears falling softly down her cheeks. She picked up the checkered apron from the chair, held it to her face, wiped her tears on it, and then cried new ones quietly into its folds. 'Dear, dear Aunt Polly," she whispered. (To be concluded) Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Emma A. Hanks GULF STATES MISSION, LAREDO (TEXAS) BRANCH SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, November 1, 1959 Front row, left to right: Connie Mitchell, Secretary-Treasurer; Dee McBride, Barbata McCrae; Kay White, President. Back row, left to right: Joyce Box, accompanist; Barbara Jones, Second Counselor; Belle Fashender, First Counselor; Dorrine Hanley, director. Emma A. Hanks, President, Gulf States Mission Relief Society, reports: "The Singing Mothers of the Laredo Branch Relief Society sang two numbers for the November Relief Society Conference. All these women, except one, are wives of Air Force men. 'They work very hard and are to be commended for their efforts." Page 201 202 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 Photograph submitted by Ruth T. Oscarson SWEDISH MISSION, DISTRICT LEADERS WORKSHOP LUNCHEON, STOCKHOLM, Autumn 1959 Seated at the table, beginning at the lower left: Edith Nilsson, Stockholm District; Signe Gustavsson, Goteborg District; Polly Thelander, Sundsvall District; Signe Edlund, Jonkoping District; Linnea Wiklund, Gavle District; Ruth T. Oscarson, former President, Swedish Mission Relief Society; Karin Larsson, secretary to former President Oscarson. Gunnel Olausson, Norrkoping District; Sister Larsson, Malmo District; Gartrud Ekelund, Karlskrona District; Judith Lindberg, Lulea District. Sister Oscarson reports: "We met here in Stockholm ready to begin our meeting at nine o'clock in the morning, and held meetings all day, where we discussed and planned our work for the coming year. The luncheon was between meetings. Everyone enjoyed the meetings and they all feel that they gain a great deal by meeting toether." ' Sister Oscarson was released from her duties in the Swedish Mission shortly after this photograph was taken. The new Relief Society President is Ellen S. Omer. Photograph submitted by June R. Shepherd MONTPELIER STAKE (IDAHO) FASHION SHOW AND HANDWORK DISPLAY Front row, beginning eighth from the left: Louisa Stephens, a former Montpelier Stake Relief Socicty president; Gertrude Teuscher, First Counselor, Montpelier Stake NOTES FROM THE FIELD 203 Relief Society; June R. Shepherd, President; Utahna Anthony, Second Counselor. Sister Shepherd reports: "Under the direction of Utahna Anthony, Stake Work Director Counselor, and Evelyn Kunz, stake work meeting leader, all of the ward Relief Societies and one "home" Relief Society participated in one of the most colorful events on the season's calendar of the Montpelier Stake Relief Society.

'The occasion featured a fashion show and a display of handwork items made by members of the organization. "The skit 'Relief Society — Why,' a reading 'Stitching,' and special musical sclections introduced the fashion show. There were forty-two entries. Fach style was detailed as it was modeled. Styles were varied, distinctive, and expertly tailored, featuring everything to wear, from casuals to wedding dresses for the women, suits for the little master, and frilly fluffs in both single and sister sets for the dainty little misses. All types of handwork were on display: quilts, embroidery work, applique, tatting, crocheting, knitting, weaving, painting, ceramics, leather work, artificial flowers, foam rubber, plastic items, and a variety of Christmas ornaments. "At the conclusion of the festivities, refreshments were served from an attractively decorated table, featuring the Relief Society in blue and metallic gold. Approximately five hundred members were in attendance." Photograph submitted by Anna W. Bentley NORTHERN MEXICAN MISSION, MONTERREY DISTRICT VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, September 30, 1959 Front row, seated, left to right, five Mission Relief Society Board officers: Juana Vallejo, Monterrey District representative; Alfa Loya, Secretary-Treasurer; Carmen Vega, Second Counselor; Rula McClellan, First Counselor; Anna W. Bentley, President, Northern Mexican Mission Relief Society; Four Relief Society branch presidents: Maria Lackner, Rosa C. De Luna, Margarita R. Chavez, and Sara E. De Hoyos. Sister Bentley reports: "Enclosed is a picture of our Relief Society sisters from four branches in and near Monterrey. It was taken September 30, 1959, at the time of our District Visiting Teachers Convention. 'The more distant branches in the district held their conventions individually in their own branches. This was the first visiting teachers convention of the Monterrey District and was conducted by our mission board district representative Sister Juana Vallejo of Nuevo Repueblo. The spirit was beautiful among the sisters and genuine sisterhood was felt by all. Included in the program was a new song 'My Prayer for Today,' also a short drama depicting true compassionate service.... We love the Magazine and eagerly await its arrival each month. Many of our dear sisters read English enough to be on our mailing list." Books for the Church Pianist ( ) Church Pianist— Stults oo 1.50 ( ) Eighteen Hymn Transcriptions— Kohlmann 85 ( ) Famous Sacred Songs—Peery 1.25 ( ) Melodies For Church and Home—Shelley 1.00 ( ) More Concert Transcriptions of Favorite Hymns—Kohlmann.. 1.00 ( ) Piano Hymn Voluntaries—Lorenz 1.50 ( ) Piano Transcriptions of Your Favorite Hymns—Parsons 1.25 ( ) Preludes, Offertories, Postludes—Schaum...85 ( ) Preludes, Offertories, Postludes—Stickles.. 1.25 ( ) Sacred Piano Album for Home and Church—Gahm. 1.50 ( ) Sacred Piano Solos— Rettenberg 00 1.00 ( ) Sabbath Day Music— Randolph 0 0..-.. 1.50 ( ) Sunday Piano Music —Boston 00000 1.25 ( ) Tranquil Hours— Presser o 2222222eeeeee 1.50 ( ) Twenty-Four Voluntaries—Stickles - 1.50 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank I DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 1 15 E. Ist South! Salt Lake City 11, Utah I 1! Please send the music indicated above. I Cl On Approval (1 Charge [1 Money Enclosed! 1 I 1! I) 1! A> Z a. Q, as oO w 7 LTT TT 15 E. Ist South? Salt Lake City 11, Utah AQ Shades of Plastic Foam Foam 14x39" wide—l0 yards..$8.00 Foam 17x39" wide—1/ yard 30; Y% yard.45; 1 yard.90 Foam Strips, for pillow tops— SO 2 (6 (<r 10 Tote Bags, tiny size 00.000 20 Complete selection of bags, baskets, mats, doilies, to weave and decorate. Dacron Bats, 72"x90" 0..00 2.49 Greeting Cards, 30 card assort- 1661 =) 0 re 1.00 Ginghams, Dan River Checks, Reg. 1.19 yard oo. 19 Plastic Crystlettes 0.0.0 pkg..35 Granite Gems, colored pkg..25 "IDEA of the MONTH," by Elva M. Tingey, A new and exciting craft idea each month, complete with materials, and instructions. $1.00 All prices plus postage Exchange Idea Day at our store, April 5, 1960 Handicraft, Hobby Supplies Toys — Cards — Gifts TINGEY'S COUNTRY STORE '"'Handicraft Center of the West'' 3456 North State Highway 91 Lehi, Utah Phone PO 8-2852 Spring Tour Mesa, St. George and Los Angeles. Leaves on March 19, 1960. Hawaii Tour Tour leaving June 1960. Mexican Tour June 1960. Also student tour in June 1960. Visit Book of Mormon places. Guatemala Book of Mormon Archeological Sites. Tour leaving August 1960. Hill Cumorah Tour leaving July 1960. For itinerary write or phone: ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phone: EM 3-5229 Page 205: She Relief Society Mlagazine in Durban, South Africa Muriel Wilson IGEL came running in this morning with a large envelope in his hand. His little hands were shaking with impatience and excitement. "Look what the postman left today," he shouted at the top of his voice — as the door banged violently behind him. Malcolm looked up from his book with a pained expression on his face. "That's Mummy's Relief Society Magazine,' he said, as he returned to his book. The covers are so beautiful, we just had to open the envelope to have a pecp. Then Nigel was satisfed and went back to his road-making game in the garden, and I put the Magazine away to be read later, when my work was finished. I look forward to the arrival of The Relief Society Magazine each month. I would not like to miss any of the copies. I love the stories and the poetry. 'The advice and encouragement make me feel the troubles and trials of life are petty. I feel uplifted, and my testimony is strengthened. I feel refreshed and prepared to start anew to live the gospel to the best of my ability. I shall always remember my introduction to The Relief Society Magazine. We were investigators, and the elders had been holding cottage meetings at our home for months. At different times they brought along books for us to read. The Children's Friend, Improvement Era, and The Relief Society Magazine. We enjoyed reading Page 206 them, and the pictures were beautiful, but I didn't find much time to study them very closely. I was more interested in The Book of Mormon, The Doctrine and Covenants, and The Pearl of Great Price, and the pamphlets the elders left for us to read. However, for a month _ before Nigel was born, I had to go into the hospital for a complete rest on a strict diet. 'The elders brought me fresh copies of The Relief Society Magazine to read. It was then I discovered the refreshing and sincere stories and articles in the Magazine. With all day free and with a terrific appetite, I began to study the recipes — and how my mouth watered. From that time on I have never looked back and have been subscribing regularly to The Relief Society Magazine. I can thank The Relief Society Magazine also for my change of view with regard to Shakespeare. I always thought his plays were heavy and uninteresting. Maybe, being older, I appreciate his works more, but if it hadn't been that we were studying Shakespeare in the Relief Society literature course, I would never have had the experience of renewing my knowledge. I would like to think that every sister in the Church has her Relief Society Magazine regularly every month, so that we may all share in the joy of reading the stories and articles and delight in the beauty of the pictures therein, together.