[Vol47 | March 1960 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Fiction | Title: A | Author: Williams]
[A Peppermint-Stick Party Helen S. Williams]

As she rushed toward the old woodshed, she felt tears splashing on her cheeks. She crept into the woodshed and shut the door tightly. Emily had built a little playhouse in the corner, where the wood had been used, but she wasn't in the mood for playing house now. She wasn't crying aloud as she sometimes did. She was sobbing, big, gasping sobs that she could not control, could not stop. Emily fell exhausted on the slivery floor, and sobs shook her body, and the tears kept splashing on her cheeks. Later, Emily laid out the flowers one by one on Daddy's greasy old work bench. Mother was right, they looked old now, but if the little flowers had a drink of water, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1960 they would look pretty. When she was all hot and tired, a drink of water made her look better, and feel better. 'The flowers were only thirsty and tired. 'They were not old and ugly, as Mother had said. Just thinking of mother and the flowers made Emily start to cry all over again. But this time she just cried silently, inwardly. She had so wanted to surprise Mother, give her a nice present. Make her eyes light up and her face smile and smile and smile all day. Mother Martin's story culminated when a childish little knock was heard on the back door. Marjorie went to open it. "Look, Mommie, flowers for you." Julie's face was wreathed with joy, as she extended a handful of dandelions to her mother. "Why, Julie, these are pretty as primroses. 'Thank you so much, my little darling." Marjorie stooped to kiss the tiny forehead under the little sunbonnet. 'Then she turned to Mother Martin. "Do you mind if I ask who was little Emily, of the generous heart?'' "I was christened Emily May. When I grew older I was just known as May," Mother Martin explained. Marjorie's voice had an almost reverent quality when she said: "Thank you, Mother Martin, for teaching me a very important lesson in life." <> (Dreams Celia Luce ie is more important that I help my child to dream and teach him how to make his own dreams come true than that I fulfill all his dreams for him.