PATTY SESSIONS.

	The subject of this sketch, who, by the bye,
was one of the early pioneers of this valley,
was horn in Bethel, Oxford County, State of
Maine, February 7th, 1795, and is now there-
fore in her ninetieth year, and in the enjoy-
ment of excellent health, able to wait upon
herself, transact her own business and keep her
own accounts.  In many respects she is a very
remarkable woman.  Her parents were Enoch
Bartlett and Martha Ann Hall; she was the
first born of this marriage, though her father
had quite a number of children by a previous
marriage, the youngest twelve years old when
he brought home a young bride.  His first
wife had been dead three years.  The country
was entirely new, for she tells us when her
mother went home with her husband "they
rode forty miles by a spotted line on horse-
back; forty more where there was only a track,
and took all she had on the same horse."
	Patty, as she was called, learned to work
when very young, not only indoors, but out,
assisting her father, as he had but one son, and
he married and had a family of his own to
care for. The girls too were all well married,
except the youngest, by the time little Patty
was old enough to perform regular duty, and
as there was another young family coming on
there was plenty for all to do.  The older
children were all born in Massachusetts and
moved to Maine, seventy-five miles into the
wilderness.
	Patty was the oldest of nine children, four
sons and five daughters, and at that early day
there were no schools and neither of her parents
could either read or write; they knew their
letters, however, and so taught her the alpha-
bet.  Mr. Bartlett was a shoemaker, and his
wife a weaver, and both worked together, as
was quite common in those times, to make a
home and raise a family.  The first school Miss
Patty attended was kept in her father's shop,
and "the schoolmistress carried her in her arms
to school," shere she soon learned to read, and
being naturally bright, and, as the Yankees
term it, "smart," she soon acquired what was
in those days considered quite sufficient for
girls to know.
	Although Miss Patty had been a very obe-
dient, hard-working girl, and had listened at-
tentively to the instructions of her parents; was
honest, industrious, thrifty and economical, yet
she had a will of her own, as she manifested
when she fell in love and her parents disap-
proved of her choice.  She persisted in marry-
ing, much against their will; though they de-
clared if she did they would never give her
anything, and they were as good as their word
for they never gave her anything at all, al-
though, she says, "they gave their other child-
ren a good fit out." Yet in this instance, as in
many of a similar kind, it proved that years
afterwards, before her father died he confessed
her husband was the one he thought most of,
and said, "O Patty, you made a good choice,
better than I should have made for you."
	Patty Bartlett was married June 28, 1812,
to David Sessions, and went with him to his
father's, ten miles away, to a place called Ketch-
am.  Her husband's mother was a very fee-
ble woman, could scarcely walk a step without

[Column 2]
help, and it devolved upon her son's wife to
wait upon her, they lived in the fathers family
until the spring, the young wife making the house
and the husband worked with his father on the
farm and earned a cow and some cotton.  Mr.
Sessions made some trays to put milk in, the
wife made butter and sold to buy a pail to milk
in; the cotton she spun and made a bed tick
and some sheets; picked cat-tails and filled the
tick, so the young folks had a bed of their own.
Those were very primitive times, and it was not
an unusual thing for young people to marry
without household goods.  Mr. Sessions had
energy and ambition and took up land, put in
a crop and very soon built a house.
	"In the Spring we moved into our own
house," Mrs. Sessions in her journal says. "An
old acquaintance of mine told me she was go-
ing back to where she came from and wanted
me to buy her loom for four dollars.  Mr. Ses-
sions earned the money and purchased the
loom, and I soon had all the weaving I could
do fetched to me from ten to twelve miles."
Mrs. Sessions obtained quite a reputation as a
weaver both for good work and promptitude;
her work was always ready for her patrons at
the time specified.
	Shortly after Mrs. Sessions was married an
incident occurred which, as it had a bearing
upon her whole life, it seems proper to relate
here.  They lived ten miles in the woods and
were not near any physician.  One day a young
woman was taken suddenly ill, and sent for
Mother Sessions, who was in the habit of at-
tending obstetrical cases in the vicinity; she
was very feeble and had to be led, and before
she had time to go any distance, another mes-
senger came telling the young Mrs. Sessions to
run as quickly as she possibly could.  She hur-
ried on with all speed and when she arrived it
was thought the young woman was dying; Mrs.
Sessions, who was entirely unskilled in affairs
of the kind, but had abundant nerve force and
moral courage, took the child and put the mo-
ther in bed before Mother Sessions arrived; the
old lady showed her how to dress the baby,
which after doing she started homeward.  A
short time afterwards the doctor and some oth-
er help came, but all was over.  The doctor ex-
amined the mother and child to see that all
was right, and finding everything in a good
condition, he was anxious to see the young and
inexperienced woman who had so skillfully
performed the work.  The doctor called upon
her and congratulated her upon her ability,
and told her she must attend to that business,
not to have any fear, for she would prosper in
it, as it was a new country and there were many
about to move in, it would be neceseary to have
more help of this kind.  About four months
after she attended another young woman in her
confinement, and from that time she has fol-
lowed the profession of a midwife until within
a very recent date, when she felt that at her
age she was no longer to be depended upon.
	But to return to the story of the newly mar-
ried young people located in the backwoods of
Maine.  After they moved into their new house
Mr. Sessions began to build a large barn and
everything prospered with them.  The spring
following they made three or four cwt. of sugar,
which brought in money, so that they began to
be comfortable and contented.
	June the 15th, 1814, their first child was
born; they called him Peregrine; that year the
barn was finished.  However, wishing, I sup-
pose, to improve their circumstances or seek a
better locality, or both, the young people re-
moved to a place called Andover Surplus on
Bear River; the conveniences were not very
great, for Mrs. Sessions in her journal says, "we
moved into an old cabin where they had made
salt, and lived there until we built a new house,
which we moved into in the night, lest the old,
rickety cabin should fall down upon us."

To be Continued.


