EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have a few words to say about this remote
region where I am staying for a short time that
I wish to appear in the columns of our little
paper, the EXPONENT. First, it is a wild but
beautiful country, the atmosphere seems the
very breath of heaven; so clear, pure, cool and
invigorating, even in these dog days! The in-
habitants are so widely separated, that nothing
but love and joy are exhibited when they meet;
and I feel many could endure a close approxi-
mation and association and retain all their
good feelings, for the very spirit of the place
breathes of peace and good will. Freedom and
liberty reign supreme; God and conscience be-
ing the "powers that be."
	Sunday, August 3rd, 1884, a large meeting
was held in the new school house, Bishop B.
Haight, and Bros. Martindale and Grant being
on the stand, also the President, Bro. Durfee, and
Thos. O. King. There was excellent speaking
and teaching and it was mooted that a Sunday
School and Relief Society should be organized.
Names were presented for nomination, and 5
o'clock was named for re-assembling. During
recess 19 persons were baptized, and a large as-
sembly again convened at 5 o'clock, according
to appointment. Meeting opened with prayer
by Thos. O. King, speaking by the brethren on
the stand, then confirmation of the newly bap-
tized, followed by ordaining those selected to
officiate in the Sunday School, and setting the
sisters apart for their offices in the Relief So-
ciety. A sweet, humble and peaceful spirit
presided over all throughout the ceremonies.
	The Bishop then addressed the meeting in a
few words and called on some to express their
feelings; he was responded to by Bro. Durfee,
Cole, aud Thos. O. King. The Bishop then
called upon Sister H. T. King to express her
feelings, which she did out of the fulness of her
heart. Meeting was then dismissed, the bene-
diction pronounced by Thos. O. King. Bishop
Haight returned with us to the house of Bro.
King, where he stayed the night, leaving after
breakfast Monday morning. He is a very
kind, wise man, and is much beloved by the
whole settlement.
	On Thursday I attended the first Relief So-
ciety held in this region, Sister Mary Anne
Wake presiding, with her counselors, Sisters
Dennis Durfee and Anne Lowe. Teachers,
Sisters Dorcas King, Durfee, Graham, Ed-
wards and others.
	There was a sweet, even childlike spirit in
that first meeting! Each felt desirous to do her
part, yet felt her inefficiency to carry out the
desires of her heart; but every one must have
realized the Spirit of God was in that meeting
and that infant society; and hence we knew it
must be a success. Each one felt it had been
a time of refreshing. As one expressed herself
to me, "I feel so much better than I did when
I came."
	All were separately called upon to arise and
express their feelings, and every one arose at
last, though it was evidently the trial of their
life to arise and hear the sound of their own


voices; but all conquered themselves and felt
blessed in doing so.
	I have been received in this region of coun-
try with open hearts by all, and with open
arms by many. They said, "I have known
you so long by your writings."
	My visit has been a time of refreshing to me
which I much needed, and the only drawback
is that I live in my home so far away from such
a host of honest, loving spirits, entirely free
from the trammels of conventional society, yet
nothing wanting in that etiquette which con-
sists in endeavoring to make all happy in the
associations of daily life. I have sold ten dol-
dar's worth of my "Epic Poem" here, I could
have sold as many more could I have visited
the surroundings, but I was not strong enough
to take repeated long journeys, and the rail has
not yet reached this remote region nearer than
Kelton, so we have to bow as usual to the inev-
itable.
	On Monday, the 13th, I arrived home—sweet
home. As soon as I reached Main Street I felt
the increased heat of the atmosphere, but the
spirit of love and kindness met me on my ar-
rival, and with that life is ever joyous and
satisfactory.
