A TRIP TO THE MOUNTAINS.

	Hurry! hurry! first one parcel and then an-
other (for nothing must be forgotten), then we
will be off to spend the 24th of July in the 
mountains; babies dressed, wrapped and put in
the wagon, and at last everything is ready and
we are on the road.  Oh, how warm the sun
beats down upon us, and the dust, how it flies


in our faces, but soon we are at the mouth of
the canyon and now we begin to feel the cool
canyon breeze, and oh, how refreshing it is; how
we enjoy it, even the babies seem to appreciate
getting where it is cool.  But here we have one
disadvantage, the rocky roads, although they
are good canyon roads, yet rough enough to
shake one considerably; but still we enjoy it
all, the rough roads, the cool breeze and the
beautiful scenery.
	Here the road winds along a clear stream,
bordered with green grass and moss, with flow-
ers blooming here and there, with gigantic
rocks on either side of us looking as though
they were about to give way and fall upon us,
and finally, when horses and children are alike
tired, we camp; next we build a camp fire and
proceed to get supper, but, unlike some, we do
not fret over our complexions, so if the fire
heats and reddens our faces it does not inter-
fere with our pleasure as we hasten our sup-
per and retire.
	Awake with the sun, get breakfast and re-
sume our journey and about 10 o'clock, tired
and jaded, reach our destination, the saw and
shingle mills, situated in a beautiful spot in the
tops of the mountains, with four or five fami-
lies residing in small cabins, cooking for the
mill hands.  How beautiful every thing looks
around us, beautiful flowers, stately trees, war-
bling birds, and a babbling brook rushing over
rocks, winding around here and there, and
finally disappearing in the distance.
	After enjoying the scenery a short time, we
endeavor to erase some of the travel stains and
rest ourselves for the morrow.  As evening ap-
proached we found it quite cold, in fact shawls
were quite comfortable; some retired as soon as 
possible.
	At day break we were awakened by the sa-
lute of artillery and music by the brass band,
under the leadership of Bro. S. R. Jenks.  At
sunrise the stars and stripes were raised, with
music from the band, which sounded sweet, al-
though there was only a part of our band
there, those few were working at the mill and
happened to have their instruments with them.
As soon as possible we gathered togetehr and
prepared to cook dinner and all dine together,
the men preparing a shady place where we could
spread a table large enough for all to sit down.
We then partook of a hearty dinner; all seemed
to be full of sport and to enjoy themselves.  Af-
ter dinner we all proceeded to a large reservoir,
where they had a raft prepared and we all
enjoyed a ride on the water, both old and
young, large and small.  We were also enter-
tained with music form the band.  Those who
have heard sweet music on the water can imagine
how sweet and heavenly it sounded. There
were also a number of songs sung by the assem-
bly, one was very nice and was composed that
morning for the occasion by Josie E. Childs.
	After spending the day pleasantly we re-
turned to the houses and spent another cool
night in the mountains, and the next day re-
turned to our homes in the hot and dusty val-
ley, tired, hungry, and dusty, where we felt to
say with the Nens, oh, for a lodge in some vast
wilderness of ice cream and shade trees!
					AGGIE CHILDS.
	Orangeville, Emery Co., Aug. 4th.


Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton contributed an
able article to the September North American
Review on "The Need of Liberal Divorce laws."

	Know thy opportunity; prepare for it.  Break
stone, if it be thy business, for the chariot-
wheels of princes. You may be called to ride
before the sun sets.-- Providence Journal.

	There is the law of benefits between men:  the
one ought to forget at once what he has given,
and the other ought never to forget what he
has received.-- Seneca.


