SENIOR RETRENCHMENT MEETING.

	The ladies simi-monthy meeting was held in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly rooms on
Saturday, August 23rd, commencing at 2 p.m.,
President M. I. Horne presiding. After singing
prayer was offered by Mrs. S. S. Young, and after
singing again the minutes of the previous meet-
ing were read and approved, and also minutes
of the Primary Associations from the 16th, 11th,
21st and 12th Wards.
	Mrs. Horne expressed her gratitude and pleas-
ure to be able to meet with the sisters once more,
regretted there were no minutes from the Y. L.-
M. I. A. Said since meeting with the sisters
she had been traveling in the settlements, and
had attended a great number of meetings; had
been to Fish Lake to the conference of Y. M. M.
I. A. President Woodruff was there, and, to
her astonishment, gave out an appointment for
herself and Sister Richards to hold meeting.
She then referred to the massacre of the Elders
in Tennessee, and exhorted the sisters to faith-
fulness and diligence; spoke upon the political
situation of the country, and so on.
	Mrs. P. Woodruff was the next speaker; she
also alluded to the persecution the Elders had to
endure who went forth to preach the Gospel,
and the sorrow in the families of those who had
been recently shot in Tennessee, and to the
eventful times in which we live. Earnestly en-
treated all to prepare themselves to enter into
Temples and do the work for the dead; said it
was fifty years this month since she joined the
Church, and referred to some of the events of
that early time; told the sisters she was going
away for a little while to visit relatives in the
east, but would not forget them, and trusted
they would remember her, she hoped to return
in safety.
	Sister H. T. King made a few eloquent re-
marks upon the scenery and places she had visi-
ted in Idaho since she last met with the sisters,
and gave an account of the meetings held there,
of the good feeling among the people, and the
prosperity which had attended their labors in
that remote part of the country. She spoke of
her having been in this valley thirty years, and
had never called in a physician. Dwelt consider-
ably upon the gift of healing the sick by faith,
and said many other good things.
	Dr. Barney said while sitting there the whis-
perings of the Spirit to her were, "Who is on
the Lord’s side, who? Referred to the remarks
of Mrs. Horne to the children upon obedience,
and said the mothers should inculcate faith in
the children; spoke of the gifts of the Gospel,
and said many other good things
	Mrs. S. S. Young, Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs.
Young each spoke a few minutes, and then Mrs.
Horne put the following motion to the meeting:
That the sisters commission Sister Woodruff to
act as a representative of the women of Utah
whereever she may go, to speak in their behalf
and teach the principles of their religion, and ex-
pound doctrine to the people of the world as she
may have opportunity. The vote was unani-
mous. Singing, "May the grace of God our
Savior," Benediction by Mrs. Phebe Woodruff.


"A Woman's Rights Association has just
been formed in Christiana, the capital of Nor-
way. Its programme is to claim for the wom-
en all human rights in general. For married
women, property rights; equal wages for equal
work with men, and the ballot."


