MEMORIAL SERVICES.

	On Sunday, August 24th, as per previous an-
nouncement, memorial services were held in
the large Tabernacle in this city at the same
time that funeral rites were being performed for
the martyred Elders in Paradise and Kanarra,
whither the bodies had been taken to the re-
spective homes of the victims of the terrible
massacre, that took place August 10th, in Ten-
nessee. There was a vast congregation, and the
seats on the platform, occupied by the Priest-
hood, were well filled. The upper stand was oc-
cupied by Prest. Joseph F. Smith, Prest. W.
Woodruff and Patriarch John Smith. In the
next stand were the Presidency of this stake
and some of the Apostles; the next well filled
with Seventies, and at each end of the stand
were most exquisite floral emblems. The gates
ajar in most lovely white flowers with a real
white dove over the top of the gates. The other
was a broken column of magnificent white
flowers, artistically arranged, and symbolizing
the broken life in a most effective manner.
	On the communion table in front of the Bis-
hops who were administering the sacrament a
most unique design in florals. A band of purple
flowers, on which was wrought the initials of the
martyrs in white pansies; in the center was a
crystalized white cross, from the four corners
rose aloft four date palm branches, gracefully
bending and uniting in the center, on which
rested a crown of immortelles. Surrounding
the base of this significent emblem was a wide
band of carnations, and attached to the design
was the inscription, "Tribute to the memory of
the late lamented martyrs, Elders William S.
Berry and John H. Gibbs, who were slain for
the testimony of Jesus Christ, at Condor's Farm,
Lewis County, Tennessee, Sunday, August 10,
1834."
	The services opened with the hymn by the
choir, "Creation speaks with awful voice."
Prayer by Coun. D. H. Wells. Choir sang,
"Sleep thy last sleep."
	President Joseph F. Smith was the first
speaker, his remarks were rendered in the spirit
of meekness and wisdom; he referred touching-
ly to the mission of the Gospel, peace on earth
good will toward men.
	President A. M. Cannon made some very
pointed and suggestive remarks in regard to the
mournful occasion now being-commemorated.
	Elder John Morgan spoke next, alluding more
definitely to the circumstances of the occurance
than those who had preceeded him.
	The choir sang "The Resurrection Hymn."
	President Woodruff occupied a few moments
in expressing his feelings on the subject, and his
words seemed seasoned with the grace of the
Holy Spirit.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney, Elder T. B. Lewis and


Counselor C. W. Penrose, each occupied a few
minutes, speaking in a very impressive manner
upon the themes of the Gospel, its teachings,
and the results in all ages of the world.
   The choir sang, “Nearer, my God, to Thee."
Benediction by Apostle B. Young.


