EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE have received from the N. W. S. A., in
pamphlet form, a complete report of the Six-
teenth Annual Washington Convention held
March 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th; 1884, with reports
of the Forty-eight Congress. The book is edi-
ted by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B.
Anthony, and published at Rochester, N. Y. It
is a very carefully prepared and elaborate work
and contains much useful information on suf-
frage work, both in America and Europe, in the
speeches and letters that are given in full. Two
letters from Utah are given, one from Mrs. E.
B. Wells and one from Mrs. Annie Godbe.
	MRS. E. R. S. SMITH, President of the Relief
Society, has prepared a list of the names of all
the Stake and Ward Presidents of the Relief So-
ciety in the valleys of the mountains. It is
printed on sheets and a copy will be sent to the
President of each Ward as soon as practicable.
	THE Woman's Conference of this Stake of
Zion will be held on the 19th and 20th inst., in
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, commencing
at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.

[Column 2]
	THE Woman's Conference of Tooele Stake will
be held on the 13th and 14th inst. in Tooele.
Visitors from Salt Lake are expected to attend.

	SANPETE Stake Woman's Conference com-
menced on the 12th inst. at Fountain Green.
Sisters Eliza R. S. Smith and E. B. Wells of
this city were present, also Sister Minerva W.
Snow of St. George. They will hold some other
meetings in the settlements in that county.

	TWO new books recently issued from the Ju-
venile Instructor Office were laid upon our table
the other day, a favor which we very willingly
acknowledge. One is entitled, "Labors in the
Vineyard," and is the twelfth book of the Faith
Promoting Series, and is a very excellent little
work. The contents are: "My Experience in
England," by C. V. Spencer; "My Swiss Mis-
sion," by William Budge; "The Faith of the
Zunis," by Liewellyn Harris; "Sketch of a
Well-spent Life," by Harrison Burgess; "The
Lord's Blessings," by Amasa Potter; "Results of
Disobedience," by T. R. Daniels. These testi-
monies are well calculated to inspire faith in the
minds of the children and young people of Zion,
which is a very desirable object to be attained.
Price, 25 cts.
	The other little work is in a pamphlet form
and is the "Public Discussion of the Doctrines
of the Gospel of Jesus Christ," held in the Og-
den Tabernacle, May 8 and 9, 1884, between the
Rev. Richard Hartley, Pastor of the Baptist
Church in Ogden and representing the minis-
ters of the various Christian denominations in
the Territory, and Ben C. Rich, son of the late
Apostle Charles C. Rich, and an Elder of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
Price 20 cts.

	This discussion is one of the best things our
young people can read, and it should greatly en-
courage our young Elders to know that this
young, unlearned youth could, through the in-
spiration of the Holy Spirit which rested upon
him as a servant of God holding the Priesthood,
so readily bring forward such conclusive
evidence without hesitation, and to the aston-
ishment of those who had been engaged for
years in preaching the doctrines of the Latter-
day Saints.

	MISS N. VIRGINIA DONAGHE and her sister,
Miss Hallie R. Donaghe, from Colorada Springs
are spending a few days in Salt Lake City as a
sort of rest and for recreation, to take in the
points of interest, and see for themselves some-
thing of the people. They are stopping at the
Spencer House. Miss Donaghe was formerly
one of the editors of the "Daily Republic" at
Colorado Springs and has been connected with
other papers and is still engaged in journalism,
and will write some letters from Salt Lake City.
We have spent a very pleasant evening with
these young ladies, and found them very intelli-
gent and free from prejudice. They were for-
merly from Virginia.

	ON Tuesday we had an exceedingly pleasant
call from Mrs. Felix of Chicago, a very pleasant
and most interesting lady, a member of the N.
W. S. A. and Woman's Congress, also the La-
dies' Club of Chicago; she is thoroughly interested
in woman's work, in education and charitable
institutions. She had heard considerable of us
through the Woman's Congress and National
Woman's Suffrage Association, and felt that she
would like to call. She expressed herself much
pleased with the way in which we care for our
people who are in need of assistance, also with
the privileges which women enjoy in our com-
munity. She very cordially invited us to visit
her at her home and seemed as friendly as she
could possibly have been with a woman who
was not a Mormon.


