MUSIC.

 There is a great power in music! Among
the fine arts this has the strongest effect upon
the human character. No lover of music can
help but be moved by its influence, no matter
in what shape it comes, though it has its differ-
ent effects upon the human mind. Who has
not had his heart melted into tenderness and
the fountain of his tears broken up by some
touching appeal of melody? Even the savage
who will stand mute and dumb in gazing upon
the most beautiful painting or piece of archi-
tecture, may be famed or subdued by the over-
powering influence of music.


And at church, what will concentrate the
minds of the audience on God more than a
beautiful hymn or anthem?  What a grand ef-
fect martial music has upon the soldier; how
quick one martial strain will convert cowardice
to bravery?  The pale cheek glows with excite-
ment and desire for approaching combat; the
whole man is changed, and at the inspiring call
of fife and drum he boldly marches against the
foe. How it thrills the dancer till the weary
feet forget their weariness as they move to and
fro by its magic spell.
	What sound will have as great an effect as
the hoot of an owl when you are in a melan-
choly frame of mind, say, for instance, when
you are alone in the dusk of evening, when you
prefer your  company to that of any other,
then the hooting of the owl has a blending
with your own feelings, and any other sound at
that moment would grate upon your feelings!
This is not confined to mankind alone, the ani-
mal creation is worked upon by its powerful in-
fluence. The slimy reptile, the enemy of man,
is brought into submission by its charms.  The
howling, gnashing, roaring beast is subdued by
its power.  God ordained this one art to be a 
blessing, a comfort, caused it to penetrate every
fibre of every living thing; and why should we
not cultivate this one great charm?  We read
of angels singing sweet songs and playing
sweet strains upon their harps of gold around
the throne of God.  We all can feel how glor-
ious this must be.
	To God we owe this choice blessing, a bless-
ing that brings peace and love; and may we all
have the pleasure of touching the strings of
the golden harps in the heaven above.
						J. E. CHILDS.
	Manuscript Paper, The Home Writer, Y.L.
M.I.A., Orangeville, Emery Co.


