RUTH SAYERS.

	Sister Sayers was well known among the early
settlers in this city. Tall and erect in figure, a
countenance always beaming with human kind-
ness, charitable to the poor and ever ready to
comfort the disconsolate, she endeared herself
to her associates. She was a woman of brilliant
conversational powers and possessed a ready
fund of valuable information, especially upon
topics of interest to the Saints. She was never
tired of relating incidents of her Boston life nor
of dwelling upon Gospel themes and the days of
Joseph and Hyrum. She has passed to her rest
and joined those gone before whom she so rev-
erenced in life; her record here was that of a
brave and true Latter-day Saint. We cannot
mourn for such deaths as hers, it is only step-
ping from one sphere of usefulness to another.
Ruth Dagget Vose Sayers was born February
26, 1808, in Watertown, Mass. Her parents were
Mark and Sally Vose. She was baptized into
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in May, 1832, in the city of Boston. Dur-
ing the building of the Kirtland Temple her
aunt Polly Vose and herself were engaged in up-
holstering in Boston, they both felt it was right
and necessary to give liberally towards the erec-
tion of that edifice, and did so to the full ex-
tent of their means, continuing their donations
until the Prophet Joseph sent word to them, "It
is enough." The Elders of the Church in trav-
eling in the Eastern States were the recipients
of their unbounded liberality.
	Mrs. Sayers was married in her youth to Mr.
Edward Sayers, a thoroughly practical horticul-
turlat and florist, and though he was not a mem-


ber of the Church, yet he willingly joined his
fortune with hers and they reached Nauvoo to-
gether some time in the year 1841; they re-
mained there until after the martyrdom of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum,
when they returned to Boston, and remained in
that city until 1849, when they came to this
valley, locating first on the corner afterwards
known as the American Hotel Corner; the year
after they removed to the Twelfth Ward, where
they both resided during the remainder of their
lives. Mr. Sayers passed away July 17, 1861,
being in his sixtieth year. Miss Vose or Aunt
Polly as she was familiarly called came to Utah
in 1857. Mrs. Sayers traveled to Boston the year
previous for the purpose of bringing her aged
relative back with her. Aunt Polly died Dec-
ember 9, 1866, being then eighty-six years old.
She was the only blood relative of Sister Sayers
that joined the Church. She had one brother
only, no sister; this brother, who was her pride,
and of whom she was devotedly fond, was killed
by a band of Seminole Indians, led by Koo-
kooche, a chief under the celebrated Seminole
chief "Wild Cat" on the 15th day of June, 1839,
eleven miles from St. Augustine, State of Flori-
da. Two other men were killed at the same
time, one named Miller, a traveler like Mr.
Vose, the other man was a resident of St. Au-
gustine. They were buried on the following
Sunday in the St. Augustine Cemetery. Mr. T.
A. Lyne, the veteran actor now residing in Salt
Lake City, was there at the time with a thea-
trical company and assisted in the burial of the
bodies.
	Sister Sayers has remained a widow since the
death of her husband in 1861, and has lived a
very quiet and retired life, yet known to many
as a woman worthy to be classed among the no-
ble daughters of earth, simple in her tastes and
habits, honest, liberal, kind and just, faithful
and true, she passed calmly to her rest on the
morning of the 18th of August, 1884, in the
seventy-seventh year of her age. Peace to her
ashes.
	The funeral services over her remains were
held (by her request) in her own house, where a
few of her most cherished friends were assem-
bled, on the following day, August 19. She did
not wish to be kept after her death any longer
than was absolutely necessary. Bishop H. B.
Clawson conducted the services, the speakers
were those who had known her intimately, and
they spoke eloquently of her unbounded faith
and her perfect trust in the Gospel she had em-
braced and for the sake of which she had left
home, friends and kindred forever.
	In the Salt Lake City Cemetery can be seen
three plain stone slabs, side by side, bearing the
following inscriptions (her own choice), Edward
Sayers, Mary Vose, Ruth D. V. Sayers.


