BY M. ELIZABETH LITTLE.

Concluded.

	At that moment a dignified man of forty
entered the room. His raven locks and dark,
flashing eyes, his grand step and haughty mien,
contrasts forcibly with the fair, heart-broken
lady before him. He stands and gazes on his
wife with a curling lip for a moment. Then,
with a stern look and voice ejaculates, "Madam!"
With a half shriek she starts to her feet, and,
with outstretched hands and beseeching look
she cries, "O Arthur, where is my child? Give
her back to me!" I turn from the lady to the
husband and ah! I recognize him as the des-
troyer of the poor girl I saw in the street.
With the cold, sinister look and modulated
voice of the educated, hypocritical libertine,
he exclaims, "Madam, you have no child! Dare
not to call that shameless girl your daughter!
Speak not her name in my presence."
"Arthur torture me not by these heartless
words. Think of her youth and innocence."
"Madam, you forget yourself!" "No, Arthur,
it is you who forgets. You know how pure
and child-like she was before you brought that
libertine to our home. You know how fascin-
ating this man was, and how he fastened the
fangs of his treacherous wiles around, the
heart of our innocent child. How often
have I plead with you to have him discontinue
his visits here, but you pooh, poohed and said
he was a good fellow and a gentleman. O
Arthur, in pity tell me where my daughter is!"
"For once, madam, I will humble myself by
speaking of this innocent girl. I have engaged
one of your strong-minded women, a philan-
thropist as you would term her. I have given
her a sum of money to hide her shame, that I
may never see her more. Her name is Mrs.
S." "Arthur, dare me not too far. I am but
a weak woman, but I am a mother still." "I
tell you, madam, you have no child. Never
mention that wanton's name in my presence
again." "Inhuman father! how dare you call
that child a wanton? O man of profound eru-
dition, united with virtues par excellence, know,
then, that I am cognizant of your incongrui-
ties, and that your supposed virtues are dia-
metrically opposite to your real character.
Arthur, you have a mistress! I have known
it for years; and I have suffered the torments
of hell from your infidelity, but never before

[Column 2]
have I allowed the polluted name to pass my
lips. Aye! blush, hypocrite, for your wife's hu-
miliation." With a sneer he replied, "Nay,
madam, I did not blush; but as you are so wise
as to understand so well the incongruities of
your husband, we had better take our innocent
daughter and start for Salt Lake. You would
be a paragon of a first wife, and then my lady
need not blush for her husband's supposed
frailties." "Think not, sir. to intimidate me by
your sarcastic evasions. Neither do I coincide
with you in your ironical similitudes; I abhor
plurality, but better be in Salt Lake where
men acknowledge their wives and children
than be subject to the eternal torture of know-
ing of your husband's infidelity!" "My learned
lady, I will, at the next session of Congress,
propose you as a lady champion for the Mor-
mon people." "Better, sir, be the champion of a
people who follow in the ancient patriarchs foot-
steps than be associated with those who seduce the
innocent and then trample their victims under
their feet." "Cease your insinuations, madam,
or you leave my house and go with your fair
daughter." The lady starts to her feet, with
flashing eyes and distended nostrils, like a
lioness at bay, ready to spring at the destroyer
of her young, with her face ablaze with anger,
with one foot put forward and one arm raised
to heaven, as if to curse the smooth faced hypo-
crite before her. She stands for a moment
looking at her husband and the father of her
child. Perhaps some thought of her youthful
days, when all was bright and happy, the re-
membrance of the joy of her husband when
she presented her first and only child to him,
of the proud delight of the father and the
crowing of the babe when he would play bo-
peep with their darling, passed like a fleeting
sunbeam through her fevered brain. But it
only stayed the curse. Her arm drops motion-
less to her side; her countenance becomes livid;
she looks like a living corpse. Her husband's
face becomes as ghastly as her own, and his
frame trembles like an aspen leaf. At last a
voice issues from those frozen lips, low and
sepulchral, but with such woe and pathos that
it is enough to make angels weep for pity, and
send the cowering wretch before her to the
confines of the damned. "Thou guilded
sepulchre! I go to my daughter, and I pray the
Father of the innocent that the same grave
may enclose both mother and child. Never
will I see your face again. If the Lord, for
some wise purpose, prolongs our blighted lives,
we will seek some foreign shore, where in sor-
row and seclusion, we may find that peace
which has been denied us here. I curse you
not; let your own heart be its accuser." With
a yearning look of love and agony she glides
from the room.
	Quickly she reaches her chamber. She
takes a change of linen, her purse and casket
of jewels, and places them in a small valise,
dons a water proof cloak, a hat and veil, and
silently leaves the house, before her almost
paralyzed husband has time to think or move.
When he had recovered from the stupefaction
into which his wife's magnetism had thrown
him, he starts to his feet. In a paroxysm of
alarm he rushes from the room ex-
claiming, "She shall not go! I will not
be disgraced by affording a gossiping com-
munity matter for criticizing my domestic infe-
licities. I will confine her to her room to-
night. To-morrow take her to Europe." He
enters his wife's chamber, intending to enforce

[Column 3]
his tyrannical intentions. "Ah! she is gone!
Fool, to let her get the start of me! I will fol-
low her. No, that would proclaim to the
world my disgrace. I will let her go, and say she
and her daughter are gone to visit friends. She
has no relatives. Some fever shall take them
off. I will go to their mock funeral, and come
back a disconsolate widower. Let them go!
I cannot give up my reputation. I am confi-
dent my wife will keep her word." He sinks
into a chair and exclaims, "Heavens! how the
truth of her statements paralyzed me. What
devil told her of my misalliance! I thought I
was safe. Had I known my gentle wife had
such power of endurance, yet withal such a
strong mind and will, I would not have carried
measures with such a high hand. She nearly
took my breath with her indignant reproaches."
But it is past, and there let it rest."
	I follow the lady about a half a mile, to the
suburbs of the city, and with her hasten up
the steps of the cottage. The bell is answered
by a servant. The lady inquires for Mrs. S.
The servant answers, "she is very much en-
gaged; I am afraid she cannot see you." The
lady gives the servant her card and bids her
hasten with it to her mistress. We wait but a
minute in the sitting room, when Mrs. S. comes
rushing in. She takes the poor mother by the
hand and says, "O my dear lady I am so
thankful you are come! Your daughter has
just been delivered of a dead babe, and is in
great danger. The poor girl has been calling
for her mother, but I did not know where to
find you, or know that you would come if I
did."
	They hasten up the stairs and into a light,
airy chamber, where lay the dying girl. When
she sees her mother she cries, with outstretched
arms, "O ma, forgive your poor dying child!"
"My child! my baby! thank God I see you
again, but not dying! My darling, live to bless
your heart-broken mother!" "No, ma, it is
better so. I could not live and bear this dis-
grace. Lay my head on your breast, ma, as
you used to, and pray to our Father in Heaven
to forgive your poor sinful child. There, that
is nice, ma. How I wish we could both go to-
gether. Now lay me down on the pillow, put
your arm around me, your face by mine; kiss
me, ma. Now I will go to sleep. O Lord,
bless pa and forgive him, and please, Lord,
take ma with me!" The lady cannot speak for
she knows this is death, and a silent prayer as-
cends to heaven that the wish of her erring
and persecuted child may be gratified.
	When Mrs. S., who had left them, comes
back, they both lay apparently asleep, so calm
and tranquil do they appear. But it is the
sleep from which there is no awakening, until
the angel shall sound the trump, when all will
be judged according to the deeds done in the
body; when the wicked will be sent to everlast-
ing misery and the righteous to eternal life.


