HELEN AND VIRGINIA.
			[Continued.]

From him, for Helen's sake alone.
Then Helen weighed in her own soul
The honor, loyalty, in theirs;
	She knew they dearer held her peace
Than their own love, as yet untold,
	And she must bring them their release.

"A year has come and gone since she
Became one of our household band.
One of us? Yes, for never more
	Could life be just the same again,
When first I took her by the hand
	Our spirit﻿s mated, blended then.

"When first I looked in her gray eyes
And met their pure and steadfast truth,
The lips so firm, the brow so calm,
	Her manner gentle, full of grace
Beyond her circumstance' and youth,
	E'en when I loved the stranger's face.

"When winter came my heart could not
Deny her shelter, aye, and love!
Winter has passed, and now 'tis spring,
	And nature all around me wakes
And lifts its offering above--
	Only my soul delaying breaks

"The universal law of God,
Shall not my heart pour forth like spring
An offering to creation's God?
	Or shall I still delaying yield
But fruitless shade to those who cling
	Like I, to laws and hopes revealed?

"When travel worn and hungry, came
Our blessed Lord, where branching stood
The barren fig tree by the way,
	He cursed the tree that mocked His need;
Then, thou my soul that knoweth good
	From evil, this same lesson heed.

"And what is human love that we
Sould count it all, and prize it o'er
God's higher love our best reward?
	Were earth love all, 'twould bondage be,
And life a game of chance, no more--
	But knowledge raises, makes us free.

Shall I, when these brief years are past,
And higher spheres of life are won,
Repining count earth's pleasures o'er
	As misers count their shining gold?
No, I shall drop them one by one
	For joys more sweet an hundred fold.

"What shall it matter in that time
The trials we chafe o'er to-day?
Only if we were overcome,
	Or if we saw beneath disguise,
The tempter luring us this way,
	And won at last, by faith, the prize.

O life! so brief thy sweetest days,
So vain thy promises to all,
So frail the staff that thou dost lend;
	Thou art but token of the goal
To lead us where no more shall fall
	From reach the hopes that guide the soul."

There came at last to Helen's heart
The time to speak.  The warm, bright day
Was nearly gone, and Helen's dear
	And only sister say with them,
And spoke in musing absent way,
	Gazing down toward her garment's hem,

"Dear Helen, have you chance to think
How swift the year has passed away
Since you were in Virginia here?
	Supposed you let her come to me
As long as she should choose to stay;
	Perhaps a change might pleasant be.

Looking not in Virginia's face
To not its sudden, pained suprise
Helen quick answered, for her heart
	Knew well how deep her words would fall;
"Sister, I think a change unwise,
	There's pleasure here enough for all."

Virginia softly left the room,
And Helen's sister in amaze
Turned in her chair with searching look.
	A thought stole slowly o'er her mind, 
But naught in Helen's quiet gaze
	Confirmed the vision scarce defined.

"Dear Helen, have you thought what weight
And meaning your few words might bear
To this young girl?" Then Helen paled,
	But answered her with steady tome,
"Yes, sister, I am well aware;
	For many months my heart has known

"Their fullest import; I have come
To where the path at last divides,
And I must choose the path of test,
	Or turn aside renouncing all.
My God supports, my heart decides
	To follow where His voice doth call."


[Column 1]
