		SANPETE STAKE.
	Quarterly Conference of the R. S., Y. L. M.
I. A. and Primary held at Gunnison, Prest. M.
A. P. Hyde presiding. Singing, "Let Zion in
her beauty rise;Prayer by Bishop Bartholomew.
Singing, “Sweet is the work." Minutes and
reports read and approved.
	Counselor Sarah Peterson said that in listen-
ing to the reports, it showed that we were a
united people, and it was our duty to do all we
could for the upbuilding of the kingdom of
God.
	Prest. M. A. P. Hyde felt thankful in meet-
ing again in conference. It was one year ago
since she was in the Hospital and the surgeons
gave her no encouragement whatever, but she
trusted in a higher power, and was now able to
walk without aid. Rejoiced in hearing the
good counsel given to-day; hoped all would ob-
serve family prayer, for it was our soul's salva-
tion.
	Sister Rebecca Wareham spoke on silk cul-
ture; thought Utah would yet be a great silk
growing country. Advised the sisters to perse-
vere and not feel like giving it up. Asked the
blessing of heaven to rest upon each and every
one, and upon our children. Felt that heaven
would be incomplete without them. Felt
thankful when Sister Hyde was speaking to see
her so well again, for she has so much faith in
the power of God, etc.
	Verbal reports were given by the presidents
of their respective wards. Singing, prayer,
conference adjourned till 2 p.m.
	2 p.m. Opening exercises as usual. Sister
Jane C. Snow said that at the time of Joseph
Smith's martyrdom in Nauvoo she was follow-
ing behind a team. There was thunder and
lightning and intense darkness, and all nature
groaned, for he was a true Prophet of God.
	Bishop Madsen spoke with much kindness to
the sisters.
	Brother Schofield of Spring City said the

[Column 3]

sisters were nurses unto the sick,and wished he
could say doctors as well, instead of sending
for some professed doctor to administer deadly
poison unto them. Prayed the blessings of
God to rest upon the sisters and all those who
have the welfare of Zion at heart.
	Singing by the Congregation, "The Spirit of
God." Benediction. Conference adjourned to
meet at Fountain Green, September 12th and
13th, 1884.
			MARY HYDE, Secretary,
		NORA ROBINSON, Asst. Secretary.


