MRS. LOCKWOOD'S NOMINATION.

     The following telegraphic dispatch speaks for
itself; and opens up a new phase of the presiden-
tial campaign:

     Washington, 4.--Mrs. Lockwood has written a
letter formally accepting the nomination as the
candidate of the Woman's National Rights par-
ty in California for the office of President of the
United States.
	Washington, 4.-Mrs. Lockwood says her an-
ti-monopoly and civil service policy "is funny,"
and that her Indian policy is "good, sound sense,
I make a bid for all voters. I wish German,
temperance, monopolists, anti-monopolists,capi-
talists, and laborers. I did not know, she said, 
"how to get around the Germans, because I'm
temperance; so I said that due-consideration will
be given to honest, industrious, home loving
Germans." Mrs. Lockwood's letter from the
Western women says that she was selected for
President because Elizabeth Cady Stanton was
"too old," Susan B. Anthony "too much of a
spinster," Mary A. Livermore "too opposed to
certain classes," and Lucy Stone "too narrow."
The new candidate to-night wrote a letter to her
western friends asking about the Vice Presiden-
cy, and saying it was an important and serious
question.

     No doubt Mrs. Lockwood is in many, perhaps
most respects quite as capable of occupying the
honored position of the Chief Executive of the
nation, as many of those who have figured in
that capacity. She is a woman of great ability
and her brain is as clear and her reasoning as
logical as that of a man, she talks not only as
fast, but as well, her language is as good, and she
hits the nail on the head quite as often, and hits
as hard; she is brave and fearless, but she is a 
woman, and that any woman should aspire to
the position would be sufficient to condemn her
in the estimation of the masses of the people.
Yet they are never weary of extolling Queen
Victoria, and even go as far back as Elizabeth
of England for an example of woman's great-
ness. Then why not a superior American wo-
man, one manifestly just as capable of holding
the reins of powers as Victoria.
     One would say, perhaps, Queens are born to
them, it is the royal blood; but the blood of free-
dom is inherent in the veins of every true citi-
zen of the Republic, whether man or woman,
and though greatness may not be thrust upon
one as it is upon the English nobility, yet why
should not one attain to eminence, even though
she be a woman, by diligence in studying the
questions of the day, the needs of the govern-
ment, the best interests of the great common-
wealth, and political economy and policies gen-
erally. Although the nomination may not cre-
ate any stirring sensation at the present time,

yet it will have its bearing upon the future, and
will awaken thoughts that might otherwise have
lain dormant.
	Mrs. Lockwood shall have our best wishes for
her success as a nominee for President, and we
have no doubt as to her ability to preside over
the affairs of the nation.  She is fearless for
what she deems right, and valiant for justice
and will maintain her position on any matter of
importance with quite as much independence of
character as any man.  Her Washington life
has initiated her into many knotty points in the
political issues now pending in Congress and
she is, by means of her intuitive tact and grand
opportunities, pretty well acquanted with
the general business of the departments of
State.  In her manner she has the appearance
of a military officer of high rank.  She is cer-
tainly a woman of superior endowments and at-
tainments, and if a woman were eligivle to be
President of the United States, there could be
no good reason why it should not be Belva A.
Lockwood.
	At any rate it is something to record the nom-
ination of a woman for a position that has been
always filled by a man.  But times and things
are changing and woman's hour is near, and
Mrs. Lockwood does but anticipate, like some
others, living too near the future; she feels the
spirit of progress that is revolutionizing the old
and breaking in pieces the iron rules of tradition
and crumbling to atoms the theories of states-
men of olden times.  A new era is being ush-
ered in and women are born with hearts as large
and aims as lofty, and courage as undaunted as
men--women who do their own thinking and
who are not content to sit and dream and wait
for the good time coming, but who will them-
selves open up the way for the advancement of
others and thrust the sickle into the field of rip-
ened grain.  They may be called innovators
and extremests, but, nevertheles, they will stand
out grandly in the future and be applauded as
benefactors of the human race, for what lifts
woman elevates man, for is she not the mother
of mankind?  Mrs. Lockwood's nomination
will, we ardently hope, call out expressions of
sentiment and opinions upon the woman suf-
frage question, that will eventually result in
great good to the cause and enlighten a class of
people who "sit in gross darkness" on this very
important subject, one which in its bearing con-
nects itself materially with that of many vital-
matters, that stem up the tide of human pro-
gress and advancement.


[Column 1]
