MA SMOOT.

	Yesterday (September 1st) at 20 minutes past
5 o'clock p m., Ma Smoot passed away from
earth. She was born on the 16th of April, 1809,
in Chester District, South Carolina. Her father
was a revolutionary soldier and her grandfather
Hunter was an officer of high rank during the
country's struggle for freedom. Her brothers
served an honorable term in the war of 1812.
	When she was eighteen years of age she was
married to Wm. Atkinson, and a year afterwards
a son was born to her. Widowed soon after the
birth of her child, she removed to Paris, Henry
Co., Tenn. Here she heard the sound of the
Gospel, and was baptised by Warren Parrish on
the 5th of Nov. 1834. In May, 1837, she went
with her child up to Far West, traveling in El
ders Sherwood and Smoot's company. On the
11th of Nov., 1838, she was married to A. O.
Smoot, while Far West was surrounded and the
people made prisoners of war. Driven with the
body of the Saints from that place they at last
reached Ambrosia, where they were counseled
to remain. 
	Elder Smoot, during the next two or three
years, fulfilled three missions to Tennessee and
Alabama, on two of them being accompanied
by his wife. The couple had removed to Nau-
voo, and although Elder Smoot was absent on a
mission, the family were there when the awful
martyrdom of the Prophet and Patriarch oc-
curred.
	When the cry, "Westward, O Zion," rang
around Israel, Elder Smoot was among the first
who were ready to start. He was appointed
captain over 120 wagons, in the company of 660
wagons that followed the Pioneers. Daniel
Spencer's being the first. They entered Salt
Lake Valley on the 24th of September, 1847.
	Among the first of those noble men who re-
ceived and obeyed the law of celestial marriage
was Elder A. O. Smoot, and as Ma asid a short
time before her death, "I knew it was right from
the first. I went into it with a willing heart. I
have never doubted it, never fought it. I have
lived it, I shall die it." This is the key to her
whole noble character. Too mortal not to err,
she was too consci[--]tions to remain in the

[Column 2]
wrong. Forgiving to a fault, devoted to her
husband's whole family, and revered and hon-
ored by them, she was to all, family and friends,
"Ma Smoot." Her character was full of a rug-
ged simplicity, a proud firmness, and a woman-
ly submission to God and her husband.
	She was the first President of the 20th Ward
Relief Society, and when she removed to Provo
in Oct., 1872, she was sadly missed by her com-
panions and friends in the city. She occupied
the position of President of the Silk Association
in this Stake, until she felt obliged by her other
duties to resign. In 1878, when the Stake or-
ganization was completed she was chosen as
Stake President of this (Utah) Stake. With
what loving self-sacrifice and womanly dignity
she filled this position until her death, only the
weeping hearts of the sisters throughout this
Stake can testify. She assisted in the organiza
tion of the Y. L. M. I. A. and Primary Asso-
ciations of this whole Stake. 
	On the 9th of May, 1883, she was prostrated
by paralysis. Her life, which had been so ac-
tive, so useful, was suddenly closed in the vise-
like grasp of palsy, since which time, those to
whom she has so fondly ministered during her
life, have gladly returned a few of her kind-
nesses. During the winter her health seemed
to improve and she recovered her speech to a
great extent and was able to ride out some. As
spring deepened she seemed to fade away, and
about six weeks ago she received another stroke
Since then she has been confined to her bed,
and has lost the use of her left side, as well as
her speech. Yesterday she seemed brighter,
and was conscious to the last, kissed every one
of the family and friends around her good-bye,
and at 4 o'clock p.m. the room was cleared.
Turning over then, when all was still, the brave,
pure spirit peacefully bade good-bye to its earth
ly tabernacle and passed to eternity.
	Although we miss her, we can but feel a deep,
solemn joy that one so nobly worthy has gone to
her sure reward.					HOMESPUN.


