A SABBATH IN TENNESSEE.

     The quiet, still Sunday air, in a log cabin in
the State of Tennessee, was filled with the
sweet strains of sacred music. A few were
gathering together preparatory to divine wor-
ship. The hearts of those in that humble
dwelling were filled with peace and love to-
wards each other, and towards the whole hu-
man race.
    Those were there who had left their pleasant
homes, their wives and children, sisters and
brothers, fathers and mothers and friends dear
to them, in the vales of the rugged mountain
tops of Utah, to preach life and salvation to
those who sat in darkness, that know not God,
but who must hear of the truth of the Gospel.
So then had they come bringing glad tidings
of great joy, words that the Lord himself had
given-- that a new dispensation was opened.
They preached faith, repentance, and baptism
for the remission of sins, the laying on of 
hands that they might receive the Holy Ghost,
as they did anciently. They laid the plan of
salvation before the people; they could choose
for themselves. If those they preached to had
faith, repented of their sins and were baptized
by one holding authority from God, handed
down by John the Baptist, then had they en-
tered by the only door, and were on the straight
and narrow way that leads to life eternal.
Then angels rejoiced that some of the children
of mortals had obeyed the truth, while Satan
and his emissaries raged that their power and
influence were diminishing, and that more had
been snatched from their evil clutches. Seek-
ing those that listed the evil one to obey, they
stirred up their minds to hatred and envy, and
planted therein the foul, dark thought of mur-
der. Painting up the characters of these inno-
cent men with the deepest colors of iniquity,
they transformed the peaceful into the troubled
and the virtuous into the abominable. Such-
was their power. Their priests denounced
them and by every art, themselves misinformed,
strove to impart to their hearers, by quotations
from vile productions, their hatred against the

[column 2]
quiet, self-sacrificing missionaries of the Latter-
day Saints.
    The hymn was sung by the friends gathered
together in that log cabin; the last sweet note
was sounded. A missionary had taken up the
sacred Bible, when a murderous mob in furious
hate rushed to the gate. One came in, unslung
a shot gun from the wall and shot the unoffend-
ing missionary under the arm. He clutched the
wound, fell against the bed and died. No
word escapted his lips; he died a martyr to the
cause of truth.
    With demoniac rage another of the mob
took aim at another missionary, and while his
comrade grasped the rifle to keep it from
deadly execution, he fell himself to the floor,
shot by the infuriated mob, and died without a
struggle. A youth was the next fictim, his
only crime a belief in the principles of salva-
tion and befriending the Saints.
    At his fall his warm-hearted, impulsive
brother shot the murderer. "I'll have revenge,"
was heard, and young Hudson fell mortally
wounded.
    As if this work of death was not enough to
satisfy the insatiate spirit of murder, the mob
fired a volley through the window, which hit
the mother of the boys and entered the dead
body of Elder William S. Berry.
     They left, and anguish for their cruel be-
reavement and care for the wounded, occupied
those that were still left alive from the awful
massacre. One missionary alone escaped, by
fleeing to the protection of the woods.
    This dark deed was in a land of liberty, in
a time of peace, in an enlightened age, in a
nation that boasts its freedom, and invites the
inhabitants of other climes to dwell in this far-
famed land of peace. How has liberty fallen?
Mourn ye people of the nation for the trans-
gression of your laws, for the rampant spirit
of murder that stains your fair land with the
blood of innocence, that will assuredly cry un-
to heaven against the participants, and those
that appluad the act. Mourn for the trouble
that will befall you, mourn for the desolation
that awaits you, by earthquakes, lightnings,
tornadoes and pestilence, unless you turn and
repent. Mourn for the evil days that are com-
ing. "Vengeance is mine, and I will repay,"
saith the Lord, and His words are sure.
    We mourn with the widows, the fatherless,
the brothers and sisters, the parents and the
aged mother, who loved the martyred ones.
    They have sealed their testimonies with their
blood. Their exaltation is sure. A glorious
reward will be theirs, and a martyr's crown will
they wear. They are where no power can
hurt them now.
