EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking some of your readers might be in-
terested in a brief sketch of our recent trip to
the volcano of Kelauea, it is with a degree of
pleasure that I take my pen to write you a few
lines: it is also with a degree of timidity, realiz-
ing that while I have an abundance of material
from which to write an interesting communica-
tion, my descriptive powers are unequal to the
self-imposed task, and will fail, I fear, to give
your readers any idea of the wonders and grand-
eur of a sight of this world-renowned volcano.
	Sister Young and myself left Laie with Presi-
dent Partridge on the morning of the 5th of
July, Saturday, for Honolulu, and were there
met by Brother M. B. Young, who had come
from Kauai to go with us; we met with the
Saints of the Honolulu Branch Sunday morn-
ing and with the Relief Society in the afternoon.
It was our expectation to sail on Tuesday, but
learned on Monday that time of the vessel's sail
ing had been changed, and it would sail that
afternoon at four, the usual hour, so we made a
few hasty preparatians and were ready at the
time appointed. For myself, I went on board
with a feeling of fear and an awful dread of
sickness, not knowing that I would be able to
stand the trip, not having been in the best of
health lately, and it has always been considered
a hard journey for ladies to undertake, but my
very great desire to see this wonder of nature
overcame my fears and induced me to make
the trial. Were it not for the sea-sickness, the
traveling by water would be most enjoyable, as
the vessel sails close to the shore of the different
Islands, one can enjoy the beautiful scenes and
many places of historical interest are pointed
out as we sail along; but we were not out of

[Column 2]
sight of the Island of Oahu, before beautiful
scenery lost its charms and history its interest
for me, and I was obliged to call for a mattress
and retire for the night; still, I was only comfort-
ably sick, as President Partridge calls if, not
nearly so bad as I had been before.
	When morning came the sea was very rough,
and the steward was obliged to delay breakfast
until the sea quieted down a little. The vessel
was now sailing close by the Island of Hawaii
on the Kona side, and we were much interested
in the different landings with the scraps of his-
tory we could get. The first place at which we
stopped was Kailua; at this little place the first
Calvanistic missionaries landed in the year 1820,
President Partridge's aunt and her husband be-
ing among the number. An old stone church
stands on an eminence near the beach, probably
the first one built on the Islands. An old mis-
sion house stands near the church, also a resi-
dence belonging to Queen Emma. On this side
of the Island the mountains slope from the sea-
shore, the whole surface of the country showing
plainly the effects of the work of the volcano.
Up in the very tops of the mountains houses
were built, and occasionally on the mountain
sides; and on looking at the scattered houses I
thought of the travels of the Elders going
around from place to place hunting the people
out from the tops of the mountains and the
rough places, and trying to awaken in their dull
minds an interest in something pertaining to
their spiritual welfare.
	Wednesday morning found us at Punaluu.
Here our voyage on the sea was to end for the
present, and we were thankful enough to step
on land again. By previous arrangement we
were to meet two of the Elders at this place,
Bro F. M. Marchent and V. R. Miller, with
horses for us to ride up to Makaka, a place about
three miles distant; but being one day sooner
than we expected they failed to meet us. We
had some difficulty in finding the place, but fin-
ally succeeded in doing so, and found the broth-
ren at the house of a native, counselor to the
president of the branch. We were hospitably re-
ceived and treated with great kindness and re-
spect. Horses were procured for us and we
started for the volcano at three next morning,
Brothers Marchent and Miller accompanying
us. We enjoyed our ride on land much better
than on the water, and the light of the volcano
seen at a distance increased our anxiety to get
there as soon as possible. We rode along some
ten or twelve miles over grassy hills with trees
and shrubs growing thriftily; then we came to
the lava bed, and were obliged to travel more
slowly, and we began to realize that we were in
the vicinity of a volcano, although we had yet
ten or twelve miles to go. The remainder of
our ride was over the roughest of roads, where
the lava had flowed and cooled in every conceiv-
able shape and form, our horses being obliged to
pick their way carefully. Still the road is a very
good one for that country, much better than we
expected to find.
	A few minutes past twelve we came in sight
of the volcano house and the volcano. As we
neared the house steam and smoke could be
seen issuing from cracks and holes in the ground,
and it was a wild looking place indeed, with the
smoking, blackened mounds two or three miles
away, and while viewing this scene it seemed
almost as if I had wandered away from this
earth, where desolation and the powers
of destruction reign supreme. One thing,
and one only, met our view which ap-
peared fresh and homelike, this was a hedge
of rosebushes, full of lovely, sweet-scented
roses, reminding us of early days at home,
where the fragrant wild roses grew in abun-
dance and beauty. We were soon seated


[Column 1]
by the fire taking the rest we were so much
in need of, as we had a walk of five or six
miles before us.
	After an early dinner the guide informed us
that he was ready to accompany us, and we were
immediately on hand, feeling quite fresh, and
started out in high spirits. The first half mile we
go down a pall or very steep hill into the crater,
the sides being covered with a heavy growth of
grasses and beautifully seeded ferns. Nearly at
the foot of this hill we came suddenly upon a
lone tombstone, which our guide informed us
marked the grave of a young man who went
down to the lake, and being in poor health,
dropped dead at this place when return-
ing. Across the bottom of the crater we
walked about three miles, crossing lava
that had been thrown up about three
weeks prevous to our visit, and from the
crevices of which the hot gas and sulphurous
steam and smoke was still rising. We first visi-
ted the old lake called Halemaumau, which was
not very active, and only spouted up in places,
occasionally throwing the lava several feet into
the air and again dying down. There was a look
of disappointment plainly visible on the faces of
some of our party. After watching this for
a short time the guide proposed taking us to the
"New Lake." We readily consented, following
carefully as he led the way, sometimes over
deep cracks, from which puffs of hot air would
come up into our faces, nearly choking us, while
the rocks felt uncomfortably warm to our feet;
but we followed our guide closely, occasionally
casting anxious glances towards him and hardly
able to suppress a slight scream, as our feet would
break through the thin outer crust and sink
several inches into the cinders beneath. At one
place the gases were so strong that it was im-
possible to breathe freely, and we hurried along
feeling as though we would suffocate before we
could draw a free breath, and were just in time
to hear the guide advise us not to walk too close-
ly together as it was a recent flow over which
we were passing, and pointed to a hole several
feet deep where some tourists had broken
through the day before.
	When we reached the New Lake it was throw-
ing up the molten lava in three or four places,
and its activity seemed to increase. We stood
in almost speechless amazement feasting our
eyes on the sublime spectacle before us. Forgot-
ten were our blistered feet, our weary and ach-
ing limbs, every other feeling being swallowed
up in admiration and wonder. Our speech soon
returned, however, and I remember Sister
Young catching me by the arm and exclaiming,
"Oh! look there, Sister Partridge." And at the
same time I was trying to direct her attention
to some grand display on the other side of the
lake, and so it was with all, each with his or her
gaze fixed on some particular point of interest.
	I wish it were in my power to describe one
tenth part of what we saw; could I do this I
think your readers would be repaid for following
my tiresome account of our little journey.
	As we looked over the lake sometimes it ap-
peared perfectly smooth and black, and then we
would be startled by a jet of flame shooting high
up in the air. This lava is a very peculiar color,
being something the color of blood, with a de-
cided tinge of orange in it, and thickish looking
at times. Lines of fire will be seen running
in every direction over the black surface like
flashes of vivid lightning; these will remain a
few minutes, perhaps, during which time a con-
tinual rising and falling of the liquid lava under
the crust is visible, making the lines of fire
wider and wider, until all is broken up. The
black blocks of cooled lava will be raised up at
one side or corner until they are tipped over into
the boiling lava underneath, and are greedily de

[Column 2]
voured by the fiery elements, and melted again.
At the same time other places will be foaming
and fretting, hissing and blubbering, throwing
the fiery spray high into the air, until you begin
to wonder whether you are at a safe distance or
not. In another part, not far from where we
stood, was a circle of blaze perhaps twenty yards
in circumference, while in the center the crust
was black and hard; and thus it continues,never
appearing twice alike. We were favored with
one view more grandly sublime than all the rest.
While the different changes were taking place
the whole mass seemed to be stirred up from be-
neath, bursting all bound foamed up, spread and
ran in every direction one seething, throbbing
mass of boiling lava, looking for a few minutes
as if it would rise above the banks and flow over;
but after this grand convulsion it gradually set-
tled down again, its surface becoming black as
before.
	Our guide now reminded us that it was past
eight o'clock, and would probably be twelve be-
fore we would again reach the house, thinking,
I suppose, that we would travel more slowly
going back than we did on coming down; but in
this he was mistaken, for although we were loth
to leave so grand a sight, and looked back many
times, and by the flashes of light we saw, im-
agined what a grand display of fireworks was
going on at the lakes, with none to witness the
display, yet we thought somewhat anxiously of
the morrow, and wondered how we would feel
in the morning after such a short night's rest.
We were not slow in retracing our steps until
we came to the Pall; this was the hardest tug
of all, but we succeeded in reaching the house
by half past nine o’clock, and were soon shiver-
ing in bed, but after getting warm slept com-
fortably until five in the morning,when we were
aroused from our slumbers to prepare for an-
other hard day's journey, a ride of twenty-five
miles on horseback. Much depended on our
getting an early start, but the host could not be
prevailed upon to give us breakfast earlier than
six, but we had everything in readiness so that
we could start as soon as breakfast was over, and
half past six found us on our horses and bidding
good bye forever to the volcano and its surround-
ings. Our horses were shivering with cold, and
looked as if they had been poorly fed. The rays
of the rising sun were welcomed by all as they
tinged with golden hues the lofty summit of
Mauna Loa, and caused to glisten the snow cap-
ped peak of Mauna Kea in the distance, which
rises to a height of 13,805 feet, Mauna Loa be-
ing but little inferior, being 13,600 feet above
the sea.
	We stopped at the house of our native friends
a couple of hours for rest and dinner. After
taking leave of Bro. Marchent and the natives,
Bro. Miller going with us to return the horses,
we started for the beach, and only arrived in
time as the last boat was just ready to push off.
	The sea was fearfully rough, the breakers
coming with such force as to shake the platform
upon which we were standing,and sounding like
the report of a cannon as they dashed against
the rock. One boat came very near being
swamped, and it certainly did look dangerous,
but we breathed a silent prayer for protection to
Him who holds the winds and waves in the
hollow of His hand, and stepped into the little
boat without fear, and were conveyed on board
the steamer.
	On our way back we stopped at Wailuku, on
the Island of Maui, and spent a few days very
pleasantly with our sister Kapukini, meeting
with the Relief Society of the place of which
she is the President. We left Maui Saturday
19th, and arrived safely at Honolulu the same
day; left Honolulu for Laie Tuesday; arrived the
same day well satisfied with our journey.

[Column 3]
	Praying that the blessing of heaven may at-
tend you and all those who are laboring for the
cause of Zion, I remain,
		Your sister in the Gospel of Christ,
