R S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS
		MILLARD STAKE
	The Presidencies of R. S., Y. L. M. and P.
A., in connection with Sisters Horne, Taylor
and Felt, with whom previous arrangements
had been made, effected a visit through Mil-
lard Stake in the interest of the above associa-
tions.
	Sister Horne and company arrived at Leam-
ington June 11th at 2 p.m.; were welcomed by
President Elizabeth Yates, Counselor Lorinda
Thompson, and the good people of Leaming-
ton. Met with the Relief Society and Y. L.
M. I. A. at 4 p.m., which was well attended.
	The following morning Sister Felt met with
the children and organized them into a Pri-
mary Association. They then proceeded to
Oak Creek, where they were joined by Coun-
selor Martha J. Robison, E. R. Robison, Stake
President of Y. L. M. I. A., C. Henry, Secre-
tary, and D. Olsen, Stake President of Pri-
mary Association. The Relief Society and Y.
L. convened at 4 p.m. A spirit of union pre-
vailed; although apparently strangers, all felt
the congenial influence characteristic of the
true Latter-day Saint. The Primary held
meeting at 10 a.m. the following morning,
showing results of good training and able man-
agement.
	At close of meeting, our conveyance being
in waiting, we were soon en route for Desert,
a distance of eighteen miles. The diversified
country, covered with flowers and shrubbery,
somewhat lessened the distance, and in due
time we reached Deseret. The citizens were
laboring under considerable excitement secur-
ing the dam, which loss would insure a failure
of crops, also thousands of dollars already ex-
pended; notwithstanding the unpleasantness of
the occasion, we were welcomed by the warm-
hearted people.
	By previous appointment the Relief Society
convened at 10 a.m., Primary Association at 2
p.m., Y. L. at 4. A full house and a very ex-
cellent and enjoyable time ensued. The Spirit
of God, as many testified, was manifested, the
children performing their part with zest and
good will,  which was truly gratifying. To
meet appointments we were en route at 8 a.m.
the following morning for Kanosh, a distance
of fifty-five miles. The good roads, pleasant
weather and extensive scenery, greatly relieved
the monotonous and tiresome journey. Passing
through Holden, Fillmore and Meadow, ar-
rived at Kanosh at early even. The same fa-
miliar greeting was accorded. The following
day three meetings were held, which were
largely attended, each organization being well
represented, showing a feeling of unity exist-
ing among the people; much valuable instruc-
tion imparted by the sisters. Next morning
returned to Meadow, meeting a similar wel-
come; held three meetings as before, each or-
ganization being well sustained with compe-
tent officers; the instructions were excellent.
After the close of meeting we traveled eight
miles; reached Fillmore at 8 p.m. According
to appointment three meetings were held the
following day successively, Relief Society at 10
a.m., Primary at 2 p.m. and Y. L. 4 p.m.
	The President, L. Robison, of the Y.L. hav-
ing resigned on account of poor health, Sisters
E.S. Taylor and B. A. Robison effected a re-
organization. Meeting was largely attended,
and much of the Spirit of the Lord was felt.
	Sister Horne spoke very plainly upon the
principles of the Gospel; the position of women,
expounding Scripture to verify her remarks.
	Sisters Taylor, Felt and Yates and others
followed in the same humble, instructive way,
that sent a warmth to the heart of every true
Latter-day Saint present and a resolve to en-
deavor to seek more diligently the Kingdom of
God.
	Next morning proceeded to Holden; held
three meetings in their order; each organiza-
tion manifesting an active, lively interest, and
sustained by efficient officers.
	Left Holden the following morning for
Scipio, a distance of fifteen miles. Meetings
held as previously appointed, a good represen-
tation of each association being present; in-
structions filled with the Spirit of God sent
comfort and rejoicing to the hearts of the lis-
teners.
	The tour of the Stake being completed, Sis-
ters Horne, Taylor and Felt took their depar-
ture the following morning for Juab. Many
thanks, dear Sisters, for freely devoting time
to preform so arduous a task. The good re-
sults will long be felt, for no missionary labor
has ever been more effective of good; a bright
future is the recompense, for their works will
follow after.
	Much credit is due also to the Prest. of the
Stake and the Bishops of the various wards for
so kindly assisting us in the discharge of our
duties.
		ELIZABETH YATES, President,
		DELILAH K. OLSEN, Secretary.
	Statistical and financial report given at our
last conference is as follows:
	Officers, 116; Members, 527; Meetings held,
71; Average attendance, 153; WOMAN'S EXPO-
NENT, 44.
	On hand at date of last report, Cash, $225.-
61; Property, $2696.04; Wheat, 1295 3/4 bushels;
Received, cash $198.85; Property $67.91 1/2;
Wheat, 112 3/4 bushels; Disbursed cash 38.82 1/2;
Property, 12.35; Emigration cash, $6.05; Tem-
ple cash, $8.75; Deseret Hospital, $12.00;
Home industries, $35.45; Property, $24.00;
Missionaries, $8.50; Building, $82.85; Property,
$12.50. On hand, Cash, $187.73; Property,
$2663.73 1/2; Wheat, 1373,5-60 bushels.

