SOCIETY.

	Being very frequently receiving letters of in-
quiry relative to duties, practices, privileges,
etc., of officers and members of the Relief So-
ciety, and being unable to devote sufficient
time to answer individually, we gladly accept
the privilege extended by Mrs. Wells to respond
in general manner through the columns of the
EXPONENT.
	"Should a president of teachers be appointed
in each branch?"
	It is better for small branches not to appoint a
president. In those, the teachers should report
in the general meetings, and keep no separate
minutes. In every branch the president of the
organization virtually presides over the teachers;
and presidents of teachers are needed only in
those branches where there is such accumula-
tion of work as to render it necessary to relieve
the presiding board.
	"Should the teachers' minutes be read in the
general meetings?"
	All members who attend meeting should be
made acquainted with and have a voice in all
business transactions of importance in both de-
partments. No "change has been made" in
this respect.
	"Is it right for the sisters to raffle?"
	We say emphatically, No! Raffle is only a
modified name of gamble. President Brigham
Young once said to me, "Tell the sisters not to
raffle; if the mothers raffle, their children will
gamble. Raffling is gambling."
	Some say, "What shall we do? We have
quilts on hand-we cannot sell them, and we
need the means to supply our treasury, which
we can obtain by raffling, for the benefit of the
poor." Rather let the quilts rot on the shelves
than adopt the old adage: "The end will sancti-
fy the means." As Latter-day Saints, we can-
not afford to sacrifice moral principle to financial
gain.
	Let us investigate the subject-Supposing an
article, quilt or other property, is put up for raf-
fle: twenty persons donate 25 cents each; all
hope to draw the prize, and only one wins,
while nineteen who have each contributed as
much as the successful one, gain nothing but
disappointment, which is almost certain to
arouse feelings of jealousy to a greater or less
extent.
	Why not all donate 25 cents each to replenish
the treasury, as well as to run the chances and
only one succeed? And then by mutual consent
donating the article or articles in question to
some charitable purpose, they prevent the cause
of jealousy and dissension-the same amount
will go to the treasury and no unworthy exam-
ple and no sacrifice of principle will stain their
record.
	"Should members of the Relief Society go to
the Bishops for counsel?"
	The Relief Society is designed to be a self-
governing organization to relieve the Bishops as
well as to relieve the poor, to deal with its mem-
bers, correct abuses, etc. If difficulties arise be-
tween members of a branch which they cannot
settle between the members themselves, sided
by the teachers, instead of troubling the Bishop,
the matter should be referred to their president
and her counselors. If the branch board cannot
decide satisfactorily, an appeal to the stake
board is next in order; if that fails to settle the
question, the next step brings it before the gen-
eral board, from which the only resort is to the
Priesthood; but, if possible, we should relieve
the Bishops instead of adding to their multitu-
dinous labors.
	"Is it necessary for sisters to be set apart to
officiate in the sacred ordinances of washing

[Column 2]
anointing, and laying on of hands in administer-
ing to the sick?"
	It certainly is not. Any and all sisters who
honor their holy endowments, not only have
the right, but should feel it a duty, whenever
called upon to administer to our sisters in these
ordinances, which God has graciously commit-
ted to His daughters as well as to His sons; and
we testify that when administered and received
in faith and humility they are accompanied
with all mighty power.
	Inasmuch as God our Father has revealed
these sacred ordinances and committed them to
His Saints, it is not only our privilege but our
imperative duty to apply them for the relief of
human suffering. We think we may safely say
thousands can testify that God has sanctioned
the administration of these ordinances by our
sisters with the manifestations of His healing
influence.
	"What age is most suitable for young lady of-
ficers?"
	The young should fill all official positions in
the Young Ladies' branch (ward) Associations.
No matter how unequal they feel to the situa-
tion, if they possess sufficient energy of charac-
ter and the true spirit of the Gospel, trust in
God, they will be sure to succeed.
					E. R. SNOW SMITH.
	Salt Lake City, September 12th., 1884.


[Column 1]
