HELEN AND VIRGINIA.

[Continued.]

So gently passed the summer by,
And then the autumn tints appeared,
Ere they had noted time and change.
	Then once (as softly as in dreams
The skies are darkened and are cleared)
	Helen discerned, like palest gleams

Of coming dawn, a silent truth;
Aye, she was first to note the guest
That entered in their blessed group;
	And, like a waft of cooler air,
It wrapt her 'round; it thrilled her breast—
	Her heart received and hid it there.

For, as from reverie, she raised
Her eyes in silence to his face,
His own in deepest thought were fixed
	On fair Virginia's as she bent
Above her book. Purity, grace,
	Wrapt her with beauty. She intent

Upon the page, knew not his gaze,
Nor of the eyes that watched them both.
And Helen closed her eyes and thought;
	Ah, new and strange they crowded in;
Conflicting thoughts of sudden growth,
	Each strong the victory to win.

"Oh, hath my heart not borne its share
Of hidden wounds and scars revealed;
What o'erlooked error in my past
	Lies unrepented, unforgiven,
That I must yet in penance yield
	Fresh griefs of heart to answer heaven?

"Can I blame her? Oh, no, her heart
Is yet unconscious; I alone
Have read the future; even he
	Looked on her as one scarce awake
To his thoughts' import; all unknown
	This vine hath taken root, to break

Its tender tendrils from their hold
Were cruelty. If in the past
She hath been worthy of our love
	Who brought her here, with welcome, too,
How can mine be the heart to cast
	Her forth to battle life anew?

"Perchance God led her here and 'tis
His holy message that I meet;
And shall my lips a faith profess
	And yet my strength prove weak and faint?
Father, lead Thou my trembling feet
	Along the path marked for a Saint."

A child's voice called "Virginia," then
The spell was broken, and she went
Out from the room with answ'ring smile.
	Then woke he from his reverie,
"Helen"—his face bore love's content—
	"Dearest of all on earth to me."

She knew he meant the words, and knew
What he had still to learn as well,
That he would love another yet
	With love as fond and just as true;
Within, the Gospel's sacred spell
	His course would shape itself to view.

" 'Tis mine to wait while God unfolds
His purposes as we're prepared,
Nor selfish, coward self must rise
	To thwart or check another's need—
The trials this young girl hath shared
	Justice demands in word and deed."

Thus Helen searched her heart alone,
And winter near and nearer drew.
Then the good Elder wrote to say
	If Helen thought it well, he'd send	
For her fair guest to spend a few
	Months with her missionary friend.

"Was this temptation? Here was chance
To clear her path for once and all."
And while she held the letter still,
	Softly came down the first cold snow;
She watched it hasten, watched it fall,
	And something in her heart said "No,"

"Shall I, when skies are cheerless, cold,
And winds call forth the rising storm,
Send forth like one cast out adrift,
	This frail young girl on this poor plea?
Her place is by my fireside warm,
	Her life lot better here with me."

[Column 2]
She watched him often and she saw
The thoughts that grew within his mind;
She knew his love for her would fain
	Repress the love Virginia woke;
And looking on their boy, defined
	The thought the father never spoke.

So winter passed and spring drew near,
And plainer grew to Helen's eyes
The truth he not e'en yet had named.
	She knew that now Virginia's heart
Had wakened and had recognized
	His love, yet waited, kept apart.


[Column 1]
