BY HELEN MAR-WHITNEY.
(Continued.)

	Colonel Kane, as before stated, was convales-
cent. The only cause of his sending to Fort
Leavenworth for a physician was his anxiety
for his Mormon friends, fearing that a relapse
might take him off, and his death might be
laid to their charge. He came among us with
the intention of learning the facts concerning
the strange people who had been so terribly
persecuted, and were now exiles from their
homes, and the spots doubly sacred—the rest-
ing place of their dear ones, and after all the
sorrows and suffering endured at the hands of
the government, they had willingly responded
to the first call.
	Thus was explained the act of his standing
eaves-dropping by the side of our tent, on his
first arrival at the camp. There was nothing
that seemed to escape his notice. The little
children who came around Brother Jede-
diah's tent, where he was nursed during his
sickness, were objects of interest. One of
Mother Whitney's little ones, a beautiful, fair,
curly haired boy, who was just recovering from
a severe illness, was one that attracted his at-
tention. As he was only a few rods from us
the child was often seen at the tent door where
he lay, or as he sat under the bower outside.
	The next spring there came to his friends
numerous and various tokens of remembrance.
Among them was a box containing fishing
tackle, etc., which was sent to the little fair-
haired Whitney boy; also the old nurse who
was living in Bishop Whitney's family—Aunt
Sabry Granger—was remembered to a large
box of superior black tea. As she parted
with a portion of it, my mother purchased a
few pounds, and I, being among the invalids,
was daily treated to this delicious beverage.
None were forgotten who had made his ac-
quaintance, or done him the slightest favor.
The presents, though, did not arrive till after
the pioneers had left.
	I take the following extracts from Colonel
Kane's Historical Discourse, delivered March
26th, 1850, as he gives the most interesting and
accurate description of what he termed the
"Tabernacle camps:"
	"The character of their everyday life, its
routine and conduct, alone offered any exclu-
sive or marked peculiarity. Their romantic
devotional observances, and their admirable
concert of purpose and action, met the eye at
once. After these the stranger was most
struck, perhaps, by the strict order of march,
the unconfused closing up to meet attack, the
skillful securing of the cattle upon the halt,
the system with which the watches were set at
night to guard them and the lines of the corral
—with other similar circumstances indicative
of the maintenance of a high state of disci-
pline.		*		*		*		*
The most striking feature, however, of the
Mormon emigration was, undoubtedly, their
formation of the Tabernacle camps and tem-
porary stakes or settlements, which renewed in
the sleeping solitudes, everywhere along their
road, the cheering signs of intelligent and
hopeful life.
	"I will make this remark plainer by des-
cribing to you one of these camps, with the
daily routing of its inhabitants. I select, at
random, for my purpose, a large camp upon
the delta between Nebraska and Missouri, in
the Territory disputed between the Omaha and
Otto and Missouri Indians. It remained
pitched here for nearly two months, during
which time I resided in it.		*		*
	"The wagons, as they arrived, took their posi-
tions along its four sides in double rows, so as
to leave a roomy street or passage way between
them. The tents were disposed also in rows at

[Column 2]
intervals between the wagons. The cattle
were folded in high fenced yards outside; the
quadrangle inside was left vacant for the
sake of ventilation, and the streets covered in
with leafy arbor work, and kept scrupulously
clean, formed a shaded cloister walk. This
was the place of exercise for slowly recovering
invalids, the day-home of the infants, and the
evening promenade of all.
	"From the first foundation of the camp all
its inhabitants were constantly and laboriously
occupied. Many of them were highly edu-
cated mechanics, and seemed only to need a
day's anticipated rest to engate them at the
forge, loom, or turning lathe, upon some need-
ed chore of work.	*	*	*	I have
had a piece of cloth, the wool of which was
sheared, and dyed, and spun and woven during
a progress of over three hundred miles.
	The chiefs were seldom without some curi-
ous affair on hand to settle with the restless
Indians; while the immense labor and respon-
sibility of the conduct of their unwieldly mov-
ing army, and the commissariat of its hun-
dreds of famishing poor also devolved upon
them. They had good men they called Bishops,
whose special office it was to look up the cases
of extremest suffering, and their relief parties
were out night and day to scour over every
trail.		*		*		*		*		*
	"A strong trait of the Mormons was their
kindness to their brute dependents, and particu-
laraly to their beasts of draught. They gave
them the holiday of the Sabbath whenever it
came round. I believe they would have
washed them with old wine after the example
of the emigrant Carthaginians, had they had
any.	*	*	The great mass of these pilgrims of
the desert were made up of poor folks, who had
fled in destitution from Nauvoo and been re-
fused a resting place by the people of Iowa.
	"It is difficult to fully understand the state
of helplessness in which some of these would
arrive after accomplishing a journey of such
extent, under circumstances of so much priva-
tion and peril.		*		*		*		*
	"Beside the common duty of guiding and as-
sisting these unfortunates, the companies in the
van united in providing the highway for the
entire body of emigrants. The Mormons
have laid out for themselves a road through
the Indian Territory, over four hundred
leagues in length, with substantial, well built
bridges, fit for the passage of heavy artillery,
over all the streams except a few great rivers,
where they have established permanent ferries.
The nearest unfinished bridging to the Papillon
camp was that of the "Conne a Cerf," or Elk
Horn, a tributary of the Platte, distant, may-
be, a couple of hours' march. Here, in what
seemed to be an incredibly short space of
time, there rose the seven great piers and abut-
ments of a bridge, such as might challenge
honors for the entire public-spirited population
of Lower Virginia. The party detailed to the
task worked in the broiling sun, in water be-
yond depth, and up to their necks, as if en-
gaged in the perpetration of some pointed and
delightful practical joke. The chief sport lay
in floating along with the logs, cut from the
overhanging timber up the stream, guiding
them til they reached their destination, and
then plunging them under water in the precise
spot where they were to be secured. This the
laughing engineers would execute with the
agility of happy diving ducks."


