CORRESPONDENCE.

MESA CITY, A. T. August 18th, 1884.

	Many times have I thought I would send
you a few notes concerning our home in the
sunny south, and as many times has that thief,
procrastination, got the better of my good reso-
lutions.
	We do not wish to feel nor to be thought out
of the world, if we are a long way off from our
northern friends, but wish to represent our-
selves among the rest of our brothers and sis-
ters. Ambition seems to be a thing of the
past, owing to the languid feeling produced by
the extreme heat of the past two months; for
all that the season has been unusually healthy
so far.
	Our Relief Society is in a good condition, the
only complaint being they cannot find enough
to do. The M. I. and Primary Associations
are discontinued during the warm weather.
Work will soon be recommenced on the Relief
Society Hall, which is now up to the square,
and is sixty-five feet long, by twenty-five wide.
The building will be ready for occupation
early this fall, and will be used for a dancing
hall and theatricals, as well as its original use
as a meeting house for the several associa-
tions. There is a general complaint of hard
times, but no worse here than elsewhere.
	We have just received the news of the mas-
sacre of four of our Mormon Elders in Tennes-
see, which has created a feeling of horror and
consternation in our community. Surely the
world is rapidly ripening in iniquity.
	The fruit is just perfect this season. It is
the verdict of all who know, that they never
saw finer fruit in California than is grown
here.
	A company will start north in a week or two
to attend October Conference, also to do some
work in the Temple at St. George.
	A board of directors has been chosen, and
subscriptions obtained for the establishment of
a co-operative mercantile institution, which,


before long, will, doubtless, be in a flourishing
condition. The EXPONENT, as ever, is a wel-
come visitor. Wishing you every success, I
subscribe myself,
			Very truly your sister,
