TRAVELS BEYOND THE MISSISSIPPI.
		BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
				(Continued.)
	President Young and company did not over-
take us till Thursday, the 6th.  Father en-
camped the day before near a spring at the
head of a ravine with some timber near by--
having traveled but thirteen miles in two days
On the second day we were joined by Colonel,


[Column 1]
Kane who, Horace wrote, "had been to Grand
Island, where he received a letter from Presi-
dent Young informing him that the brethren
had given up the idea of moving up that way,
so he thought he would return. There is a
mound in the vicinity, about 1/4 of a mile off,
which Bro. Kimball and Col. Kane have no-
ticed in a short ramble which they took last
evening; and the Col. expressed a desire that
some of the men should take spades in the
morning and see what could be found by exam-
ing it."
	President Young, my father and others rode
ahead on the 6th to make a survey of the coun-
try to see if they could find some good place to
stop, and visited some springs a mile or two
from camp.
	Horace continues; "Some of the boys to-day
dug into the before mentioned mound, where
they found the "skeleton form" of an Indian,
apparently having been buried for some time;
they also found with it quite a quantity of
beads, brass, trinkets, etc., which formerly in
life adorned his person. Col. Kane has care-
fully wrapt up the bones and the cranium,
which he intends taking with him to Philadel-
phia for the inspection of some professional
friend of his, who is versed in the science of
craniology. The boys received $2.00 divided
among them for their services.	*	*	*
Father and mother are gaining rapidly."
	"Friday, 7th.	*	A council was held
to-day in Brother Jedediah Grant's tent - the
result was, that we are to remain where we are,
as a no more commodious place can be found,
and form in a hollow square		*		*
Twelve men chosen by the Council as a
committee to act for and make arrangements
in behalf of the camp, who are to see executed
the order of the Council - make arrangements
for the winter, etc. John Davenport took two
yoke of oxen and went back to the big springs,
our former camping place, after Brother Clay-
ton."
	"Saturday, 8th. Still warm and sultry. To-
day the wagons were arranged as contemplated
in the form of a hollow square - this brought
us further on the hill, and a considerable great-
er distance from water.		*	*	Father
and Bro. Kimball's companies occupy one end
entire of the square - to-day the teams were
engaged in hauling trees to make a bowery the
whole length of our wagons, which we worked
at till past eleven o'clock at night. and nearly
completed it. Trees were also drawn for the
purpose of building a bower in the centre of
the square. They also intend fencing in the
camp so that the cattle cannot get outside.
There was a lamb run over by one of our wagons
while moving to-day, and broke his leg - this
is the second time within a week we have been
indebted to accident for fresh meat."
	Sunday, 9th. Brother Kimball called his
family together to hold a private family meet-
ing, a number of others however attended.
Brother Kimball spoke at some length, and
was followed by father and Jedediah M. Grant.
*	*	The sacrament was administered
and the meeting dismissed. Council meeting
was held and Brigham spoke at some length
concerning the twelve men who were chosen to
form a Church Council, and were to act as city
council, also High Council to the Church. Fa-
ther Cutler was appointed president thereof by
a unanimous vote; Samuel Russell, clerk; and
Horace S. Eldridge, marshal. President
Young named our place "Cutler's Park." The
clerk then read a letter written to President
Polk - vote unanimous for it to be sent - the
expediency of remaining in a large camp was
spoken of as affording less chance for the na-
tives to rob and plunder from us - also the pro-
priety of securing the permission of the Lam-
anite chief before cutting their timber. Col.
Kane is quite sick and moved a little way on-
to the prairie by himself."

[Column 2]
	Monday, 10th.		*	This morning
some of the people constituting this end of the
camp and those immediately belonging to Bro.
Kimball's family were called together for the
purpose of making arrangements about cutting
hay for the winter. The calculations are made
to cut 800 tons, which divided among the
sixty-four men, when counted, made 12 1/2 tons
apiece. There were also estimated 350 head of
cattle, 31 horses and mules, and 48 sheep. To-
day we busied ourselves in completing the
fence on this end of the ground and in finish-
ing the bowery.	*	*	*	Col. Kane
was brought again into camp last evening very
ill indeed; he was taken to Bro. Grant's tent.
*	*	Forty wagons (including Bros. Her-
riman's and Peck's families, who went on to
the Elk Horn some time ago), came up while
here."
	On the 14th some of the brethren went to
cutting and drawing house logs, and one or two
commenced digging a well. In two days they
had dug to the depth of twenty-eight feet with-
out finding water. They also commenced
building a house for the purpose of storing
away provisions and other things, that they
might have the use of the wagons to haul hay
with, etc.
	Horace continues:  "A council of a number
of the Twelve and the authorities of the
Church was held at father's tent this evening
respecting our arrangements for the winter,
etc. Twenty-five men were lately appointed
to stand on guard night and day to keep the
cattle out of the woods, that they may not get
into the pea vines, which we depend upon con-
siderably for our cattle this winter."
	"Wednesday, 12th. Cool and pleasant--
the people collected between this and Brigham's
camp to receive letters from their friends in
the army. Our camp as well as Brigham's is
now completely fenced in."
	He again speaks of Col. Kane's sickness and
of him sending to Fort Leavenworth after a
physician of his acquaintance. On the even-
ing of the 13th he wrote:
	"A meeting was called in the centre of the
square, where captains and foremen were chos-
en for the purpose of superintending the cut-
ting of hay. There were the names of sixteen
companies or parties read over. Bro. K.'s and
father's companies constituting the 1st division
of the whole camp of Israel. A report of the
council was then read by Bro. Grant, request-
ing the people to turn out en masse to-morrow
morning, gather in all their cattle, yoke them,
let them remain in their yokes until further or-
ders, meanwhile furnish them with new cut
grass; also to sharpen their scythes and axes,
and hold themselves in readiness to commence
the work of haying. These orders were car-
ried out the next morning - hunting, yoking
and confining their cattle in yards, etc."	*	*
	"Sunday there were meetings held in the
woods about a mile and a half from camp.
Porter arrived this evening after an absence of
four or five months - ten days from Nauvoo.
He was lately liberated at Galena, no one ap-
pearing against  him to get repaired when
he last left us. Brought also a number of "Ea-
gles" issued July 31st, and letters.		*	*
In the paper is announced the death of its late
editor, Dr. Wm. E. Matlock, of whom the
obituary article speaks in the highest and most
praiseworthy terms."
	"Monday, 17.	*	Myself and three others
engaged in digging the well, but yet no water.
*	*	The physician who was sent for by
Col. Kane arrived from Leavenworth this af-
ternoon in company with Mr. Fleming, who
lives at the village below. The doctor said that
his patient was recovering rapidly. The two
gentlemen came to my tent this evening, when
we sent for Bros. Wm. Pitt, James Hutchinson
and James Smithers, who brought their in-

[Column 3]
struments and entertained us until 11 o'clock
with a variety of charming music. The doc-
tor said it was the best music he had heard in
this country."
	I remember many of the incidents mentioned
above, particularly the musical entertainment
at our tent. The first time we met Col. Kane
was on the 5th of August, just after our wag-
ons were formed in a circle so as to make an
enclosure for horses. The meeting was some-
what peculiar.
	My sister-in-law and I being more than weary
that day with the sun beating down and not a
shade of any kind to screen us from its scorch-
ing rays, we were considerably out of sorts,
and were just giving expression to some of our
thoughts and feelings, in consequence of the
unpleasant circumstances to which we were
subjected, through the heartlessness of those
who were allowed to wrong and oppress the
weak, etc., and wondering when these trials
would cease or where our lots were to be cast,
etc. We were going on in this strain while
washing the dust from our hands and faces
preparatory to getting dinner. But our con-
version came to a sudden stop, for as I went
to the tent door to dash out some water, who
should I see but a young stranger standing in
a listening attitude by the side of his carriage,
which stood hardly a yard away from our tent.
He looked up as I threw out the water, and I
felt my cheeks crimson as our eyes met; and I
made a hasty retreat, wondering who he was
and what we had said that he could take ad-
vantage of, if so disposed. Neither of us were
aware of the Col.'s arrival in camp, and this
young man looked a mere stripling, being deli-
cate in form as well as features. But we soon
learned who he was. He came, as it were, like
an angel of mercy, and one whom the Lord, no
doubt, raised up to act as a mediator in behalf
of a homeless and afflicted people.
	In the trouble of 1858, called the Mormon
Rebellion," but more correctly "Buchanan's
Blunder," Col. Kane appeared again as an
ambassador, though he was then in feeble
health and worn down with travel. At the
conclusion of Governor Young's remarks in
their council, he said, "Friend Thomas, the
Lord sent you here and He will not let you
die - no, you cannot die till your work is done.
I want to have your name live to all eternity.
You have done a great work, and you will do
a greater work still." Afterwards when asked
by Elder Staines why he wished to be intro-
duced as Dr. Osborne, he replied, "My dear
friend, I was once treated so kindly at Winter
Quarters that I am sensitive over its memories.
I knew you to be a good people then, but
since I have heard so many hard things about
you, that I thought I would like to convince
myself whether or not the people possessed the
same humane and hospitable spirit that I found
in them once. I thought, if I go to any of
my great friends of Winter Quarters, they
will treat me as Thomas L. Kane, with a re-
membrance of some services which I may have
rendered them. So I requested to be sent to
some stranger's house as 'Dr. Osborne,' that I
might know how the Mormon people would
treat a stranger at such a moment as this, with-
out knowing whether I might not turn out to
be either an enemy or a spy. And now, Mr.
Staines, I want to know if you could have
treated Thomas L. Kane better than you have
treated Dr. Osborne?"
	"No, Col.," he replied, "I could not." "And
thus, my friend," added Dr. Osborne, "I have
proved that the Mormons will treat the stran-
ger in Salt Lake City, as they once did Thom-
as L. Kane at Winter Quarters."


