EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I trust you will pardon my presumption in ad-
dressing you, with whom I have not the pleasure
of the slightest acquaintance, but I feel as
though the principles of our holy religion, which
we have espoused, bring us near and make us
one in Christ Jesus.
	As I am getting old and feeble I cannot ex-
pect to remain very long in this probation, and
I feel anxious to bear my testimony to the truth
of the everlasting Gospel, as we have received
it in these last days.
	My age is seventy-four—a period in life when
many, very many of our aged brethren and sis-
ters are leaving us; but few now survive with
whom I was early associated in this Kingdom.
I will mention the honored names of a few sis-
ters who now remain. Sister Eliza R. Snow
Smith, Zina D. H. Young, Presendia L. Kim-
ball, Bathsheba W. Smith, Phoebe Woodruff,
and a few others.
	I joined this Church late in the fall of 1831. I
was then in Vermont visiting some sisters and
other relatives who lived there—myself and sis-
ters and their husbands joined the Church, and
the next season we went home to Connecticut,
New Haven Co., taking along with us Orson
Pratt and Lyman E. Johnson. They preached
the fulness of the Gospel there, and baptized
nearly all my father's family. This is some
fifty three years ago, during which time I have
never doubted the truth of this work for a mo-
ment, my experience in this cause having fur-
nished me with many living testimonies to the
truth.
	I went to Kirtland in the summer of 37, was
there when the Temple was finished and dedi-
cated, and became intimately acquainted with
all the Smith family, who were all very kind to
me. I am quite sure a better family never lived
on earth. I know that Joseph Smith was an in-
spired prophet of God, as I was personally ac-
quainted with him and often listened to his di-
vine teachings.
	In the summer of 1835 I was married to the
late Harrison Burgess, with whom I lived forty-
eight years, but he, too, is gone, and I am now,
as it were, left alone. My husband took a second
wife in 1846, by whom he had eleven children,
all living but three, and all have families. We
lived in friendship and love, each one striving to
do our part to fulfill the sacred obligations we
were under to each other in the new and ever-
lasting covenant. As our family increased it
was always my pleasure to receive each one as
they came into our family circle and to do all in
my power for their comfort.
	It has fallen to my lot to survive my husband
and his other wife, as she died a few months be-
fore he passed away. This sudden bereavement
has left me very lonely, as I have no children of
my own on whom to lean for comfort and sup-
port in my declining years; but I hope soon to
join them in a better world than this. I hope
and trust I have not lived quite in vain, as I
have had the privilege of doing the work for
many of my kindred dead. In this I rejoice ex-
ceedingly.
	I am a firm believer in the principle of plural-
ity of wives, or celestial marriage, as it has been
revealed to us in these last days through the
Prophet Joseph Smith, as well as the testimony
and practice of it by the ancient people of God
in former times. It is a principle in which I re-
joice more than in any other which has been re-
vealed from the heavens, and it has ever been a
wonder to me how people can despise and hate a
principle fraught with so much comfort and
happiness, as this surely must be, to those who
have had to lay their loved ones in the cold and

[Column 2]
silent grave. How cheering, then, to know that
through the sealing power of the holy Priest-
hood our union can be made eternal, and we can
have and enjoy each other's society beyond the
grave. Perhaps I should never have been as
firm a believer in these things as I am if it had
not been shown to me by the spirit and power
of God at an early day, of which I will bear my
testimony:
	I was somewhat troubled in my mind, and as
I was pondering this doctrine, the Spirit of God
rested down upon me and a visible change
seemed to pass over my whole system. My
mind became enlightened so that I could see
and comprehend the principles of eternity, and
in this way I was enabled to see and understand
the sacred and holy principle of sealing, or in
other words, the new and everlasting covenant,
in which I have ever since rejoiced. I have not
language to describe the purity, beauty and
glory which I then saw in every feature of it. I
have ever since looked upon it as one of the
grand pillars on which the salvation and exalta-
tion of the sons and daughters of Adam is rest-
ing, and I would here say to the young and ris-
ing generation, beware how you treat this sub-
ject, lightly or with contempt, as I think it
never fails to bring a punishment on all such
who indulge in it.
	We have a Relief Society, also the Mutual Im-
provement and Primary Associations, in our
little town, all endeavoring to act a good part in
this kingdom. I myself am trying to be faith-
ful in all things, that I may finish up the bal-
ance of my days with honor to myself and the
cause in which I am engaged.
	Wishing you and your valuable paper success
and prosperity, I am,
		Truly your friend and sister,
					SOPHIA M. BURGESS.
	Pine Valley, Washington Co., August 8, 1884.


[Column 1]
