SERMONS AND WRITINGS OF THE
PROPHET JOSEPH.
HIS TEACHINGS TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
				______

	This is a charitable Society, and according to
your natures; it is natural for females to have
feelings of charity and benevolence.  You are
now placed in a situation in which you can act
according to these sympathies which God has
planted in your bosoms.  If you live up to these
principles, how great and glorious will be your
reward in the celestial kingdom!  If you live up
to your privileges, the angels cannot be re-
strained from being your associates.  Females,
if they are pure and innocent, can come into
the presence of God; for what is more pleasing
to God than innocence?  You must be innocent,
or you cannot come up before God; if we would
come before God, we must keep ourselves pure,
as He is pure.  The devil has great power to de-
ceive; he will so transform things as to make
one gape at those who are doing the will of God.
You need not be teasing your husbands because
of their deeds, but let the weight of your inno-
cence, kindness and affection be felt, which is
more mighty than a millstone hung around the
neck; not war, not jangle, not contradiction, or
dispute, but meekness, love, purity—-these are
the things that should magnify you in the eyes
of all good men.  Sin must be brought to
light, iniquity must be purged out from the midst
of the Saints; then the veil will be rent, and
the blessings of heaven will flow down—they
will roll down like the Mississippi river.
 If this Society listen to the counsel of the Al-
mighty, through the heads of the Church, they
shall have power to command queens in their
midst.  I now deliver it as a prophecy, if the in-
habitants of this State, with the people of the
surrounding country, will turn unto the Lord
with all their hearts, ten years will not roll
round before the kings and queens of the earth
will come unto Zion, and pay their respects to
the leaders of this people; they shall come with
their millions, and shall contribute of their
abundance for the relief of the poor, and the
building up and beautifying of Zion.  After this
instruction, you will be responsible for your own
sins; it is a desirable honor that you should so
walk before our Heavenly Father as to save
yourselves; we are all responsible to God for the
manner we improve the light and wisdom given
by our Lord to enable us to save ourselves.
“President Smith continued reading from the
above mentioned chapter, and to give instruc-
tions respecting the order of God, as established
in the Church, saying every one should aspire
only to magnify his own office and calling.  He
then commenced reading the 13th chapter-
"Though I speak with the tongues of men and
angels, and have not charity, I am become as
sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal;” and said,
don’t be limited in your views with regard to
your neighbor's virtues, but beware of self-
righteousness, and be limited in the estimate of
your own virtues, and not think yourselves more
righteous than others; you must enlarge your
souls towards each other, if you would do like
Jesus, and carry your fellow-creatures to Abra-
ham’s bosom.  He said he had manifested long-
suffering and forbearance and patience towards
the Church, and also to his enemies; we must
bear with each other’s failings, as an indulgent
parent bears with the foibles of his children.
He then read the second verse—“Though I
have the gift of prophecy, and understand all
mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I
have all faith,so that I could remove mountains,
and have not charity, I am nothing.” He then
said, though a man should become mighty, do
great things, overturn mountains, perform
mighty works, and should then turn from his
high station to do evil, to cat and drink with the
drunken, all his former deeds would not save
him, but he would go to destruction!  As you
increase in innocence and virtue, as you increase
in goodness, let your hearts expand, let them be
enlarged towards others; you must be long-suf-
fering, and bear with, the faults and errors of
mankind.
 How precious are the souls of men!  The fe-
male part of the community are apt to be con-
tracted in their views.  You must not be con-
tracted, but you must be liberal in your feelings.
Let this Society teach women how to behave
toward their husbands, to treat them with mild-
ness and affection.  When a man is borne down
with trouble, when he is perplexed with care
and difficulty, if he can meet a smile instead of
an argument or murmur—if he can meet with
mildness, it will calm down his soul and soothe
his feelings; when the mind is going to despair,
it needs a solace of affection and kindness.
	You will receive instruction through the order
of the Priesthood which God has established,
through the medium of those appointed to lead,
guide and direct the affairs of the Church in
this last dispensation; and I now turn the key
in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and
this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and in-
telligence shall flow down from this time hence-
forth; this is the beginning of better days to the
poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice
and pour forth blessings on your heads.
	When you go home, never give a cross or un-
kind word to your husbands, but let kindness,
charity and love crown your works henceforth
don’t envy the finery and fleeting show of sin-
ners, for they are in a miserable situation; but
as far as you can, have mercy on them, for in a
short time God will destroy them, if they will
not repent and turn unto Him.  Let your la-
bors be mostly confined to those around, in the
circle of your own acquaintance, as far as knowl-
edge is concerned, it may extend to all the
world; but your administrations should be con-
fined to the circle of your immediate acquaint-
ance, and more especially to the members of the
Relief Society.  Those ordained to preside over
and lead, are authorized to appoint the different
officers, as the circumstances shall require.
If any have a matter to reveal, let it be in
your own tongue; do not indulge too much in
the exercise of the gift of tongues, or the devil
will take advantage of the innocent and unwary.
You may speak in tongues for your own comfort,
but I lay this down for a rule, that if anything
is taught by the gift of tongues, it is not to be
received for doctrine.  President Smith then
gave instructions respecting the propriety of fe-
males administering to the sick by the prayer
of faith, the laying on of hands, or the anoint-
ing with oil; and said it was according to revela-
tion that the sick should be nursed with herbs
and mild food, and not by the hand of an enemy.
Who are better qualified to administer than our
faithful and zealous sisters, whose hearts are full
of faith, tenderness, sympathy and compassion?
No one.  Said he was never placed in similar
circumstances before, and never had given the
same instruction; and closed his instructions by
expressing his heartfelt satisfaction in improving
this opportunity.
 The Spirit of the Lord was poured out in a
very powerful manner, never to be forgotton by
those present on this interesting occasion.


