EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Some few weeks since we were favored with
a visit from our beloved sister, Presendia L.
Kimball. A meeting of the Relief Society
was called, and some excellent instructions
were imparted.
	Synopsis of the minutes of the meeting held
July 25th, 1884. After the opening exercises
President Julia Lindsay and her counselor,
Elizabeth Collins, made a few remarks in a
very humble and appreciative spirit, praying
the Spirit to be with us to help us onward,
that we might be fitted for our lives here and
hereafter, after which Sister Presendia L. Kim-
ball was introduced to the sisters.
	Said she felt pleased to meet with the Relief
Society in Paris once more; told us she had
been in the Church forty-eight years, and
would not give her experience for all the gold
on the earth. "Joseph Smith stands at the
head of this dispensation and will be the first
to be resurrected." Spoke upon the principle
of plural marriage, exhorted the sisters to be
kind and charitable. Her calling had been to
help the poor, attend the sick and lay out the
dead; she had been among the richest and the
poorest of the Saints. Regretted not having
kept a history of her experience. She enjoyed
working in the Temple, it seemed as though
spirits of the good were there, and a halo of
love and comfort filled the Temple.
	Sister Kimball said the Relief Society was
first organized by Joseph Smith through a rev-
elation from God. His wife Emma was chosen
President. Emma was good to the poor, and
had many good qualities, and still she was suf-
fered to go astray, the speaker knew not why,
unless it was because she was of Judah, and it
was not time for that people to accept the Gos-
pel. Joseph was of Ephraim. Exhorted the
sisters not to speak evil of one another; should


never speak evil of any principle of their re-
ligion; much depends upon mothers in rearing
their children; they should never keep them
from Sunday Schools, nor any of their meet-
ings, but regard them as gifts from God and
train them to become good and noble. Said
we should store up grain, for the judgments of
God were coming upon the earth, and we must
be prepared if we would become saviors upon
Mt. Zion. Thought we should make our own
fashions and not follow those coming from Lon-
don, Paris and from Babylon. She knew the
trial of living with an apostate husband, her
first husband apostatized and took her eldest
son with him, but she had one son she thought
a gift from God. "We must put our trust in
God. When a woman enters into the celes-
tial order of marriage she takes the first step
toward redemption from the fall." Hoped we
would all meet behind the veil.
	Sister Margret Innes thought it a feast to
listen to the voice of her sisters; she felt encour-
aged and more determined to press forward.
	Brother Lindsay spoke for a short time, said
every one would have to work out their own
salvation. Prayed that Sister Kimball might
have strength to perform her labors.
	Prest. Julia Lindsay felt thankful to her
Heavenly Father and to the sisters for the good
meeting we had enjoyed. Wanted the Primary
Associations to meet with us at 3 o'clock; would
like the children to be prepared with a few
songs and recitations, so that Sister Kimball
could see how they were progressing. Hoped
the mothers would all meet with them. Was
looking forward to a reunion of all the socie-
ties of the Stake when the new tabernacle
would be finished. Prayed God to bless them
all.
	Meeting was adjourned sine die. Singing
and benediction.
			JULIA P. LINDSAY, President,
			ELLA RICH, Ass't Sec.


