[Vol49 | October 1962 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Fiction | Title: A Time | Author: Walkenhorst]
A time for GIVING May Walkenhorst Christmas is a time for giving — not only of gifts, but of oneself. And what better way to express the thoughtfulness and spirit of the season than by giving a gift you took the time and effort to make or decorate by hand? In addition to handmade gifts having more meaning than commercial gifts, handmade articles can be economical as well. The cost of materials is small, and you may find most of the necessary items already on hand. For the Golfer Create your own "Golfie the Gloworm." 'The fun with this one is in the packaging of golf balls. The price will depend on how much you choose to pay for the balls. Stuff a white sock with six golf balls, tying the sock between each ball with wool yarn. Insert tees for legs; tie a ribbon to make the neck; use gummed stars for eyes above a glued-on paper mouth; and glittered pipe cleaners for feelers. 741 742 For a Child's Desk Use a small empty jar for creating a paper-weight snowstorm. Set a small plastic figure from the variety store in a mound of plaster of Paris the size of the jar neck. Glue the set plaster figure to a washer cut from an old inner tube the size of the inside of the jar lid. Fill the jar with water, adding one teaspoon of moth flakes. Insert the figure and screw the lid on tightly. Edge the lid with decorative tape. Cost, about fifty cents. Knitting Bag for a Doll Any little girl with a small "teenage' doll would love to have a miniature knitting bag which can be made for no cost at all, provided you saved the plastic container from the last tooth brush you bought. Using a razor blade, carefully cut the container down to 2!/" in height. Work a hole in each side with a hot needle or an ice pick for attaching a yarn handle. Roll up three tiny balls of yarn, tucking the ends under securely. Push two nails with small heads through the yarn balls to represent knitting needles, and place in the "bag." Replace the plastic cap, and stand by to watch a delighted face on Christmas day. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 A TIME FOR GIVING 743 For a Convalescent Child Ww uy Cover a blank notebook with of brightly colored paper, bound with F decorative tape, giving the front a I B personal inscription to start young "wheels" in motion. Cost, less I & than fifty cents. I - STRATE For Little Learners Trace around a child's_ hand, allowing extra width for the thumb. Use this pattern to trace and cut four pieces of felt for "Stop" and "Go" mittens. Apply green letters for "Go" to one piece, and red letters for "Stop" to an opposite piece. Join the pieces together on the machine or by hand using the blanket stitch. 'These help a young child to learn the traffic signals and colors. Cost, about fifty cents. A Bib for a Boy Many instructions are given for making bibs for girl babies, but here's a bib idea just for boys: Cut a "V" in the center of the top and bottom of a washcloth or piece of terry toweling. Bind the edges with bias tape, and machine applique a folded strip down the front, extending on each side for ties. Stitch unfolded strips 114" long on each side for "pockets," and decorate the vest front with small buttons. Cost, about fifty cents.