[Vol49 | October 1962 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Patterns | Author: Smith]
Patterns of Family Life and Organization Lucile Dimond Smith "Utah Mother" of 1962 ia2 THE CALVIN S. SMITH FAMILY Front row seated, left to nght: Claudia Smith; Maurine Smith; Kathleen Smith. Second row seated, left to nght: Elizabeth Smith Wrathall; Mary Taylor Smith; Calvin S. Smith; Lucile D. Smith; Susan Miller, granddaughter; Helen Smith Rabe. Back row standing, left to right: Lucile Smith Hutchings; Nora Smith Grover; Virginia Smith Scharffs; Margaret Smith Miller; Calvin Smith, Jr.; Wayne Smith. James Dimond Smith and Mary Smith, deceased, are not in the picture. Picture taken about six years ago. A pattern for a dress. It is a design, a way or mode of life one selects to achieve a goal or an objective. What one wants out of life, what one values for himself and his family, and how much one is willing to sacrifice for his objective, determine the pattern or design for family life he will choose. What is God's purpose in creating man? Dzifferent nations, different cultures, and religions show a marked divergence in their outlook on life and _ life's purposes. What constitutes the good life? ' pattern for family living is like Primitive peoples are said to be kindly and indulgent with their children. National patterns among the poor and the middle classes in some nations are strict, authoritarian, and harsh. 'They exploit the children. One nation rejects the family altogether as a means of survival. Choosing a pattern of living is a very complex problem. In choosing a pattern for my family, I was greatly influenced by the family living in the home of my parents. They were sincere, honest, industrious Latter-day Saints. My father was a 723 724 convert to the Church, an immigrant from England, and the first bishop of Bennion Ward. My mother was the daughter of a pioneer of 1847, and the first president of Uintah Stake Relief Society. My father's home and the pattern of family life were based on the Church principles of love and service. My parents extended themselves, with their limited resources, to give us every advantage of religious training and education. We were a healthy, happy, integrated group. We were given consideration and respect. We loved each other, worked, and co-operated _together to make the most of our resources. In being mother to my family, I have had in mind the fulfillment of what I conceived to be woman's noblest and most important function — having a family and rearing the members of it so that each individual in it could find the greatest happiness and _ satisfaction possible out of life, and render the best service of which he was capable. It is my belief that woman finds her greatest joy and reward, and _performs her most useful services to God, her children, and her community in rearing a healthy family of trained, useful citizens who find joy and happiness in life and in service to their fellow men. The mother is the "fountain of life." It is she who is the most important teacher, the example, the stimulator for good, the protector against evil and dissension, and the guardian of peace. It is she who must be responsive to the divine purposes of God, and_ transplant them into the daily living of all her family. It is she who must seek to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 understand and interpret the good from former times, and the worthy and enduring trends of the changing present. She must be responsive to the moral and ethical impulses of society, whether represented by the Church, the schools, or by society in general. The mothers and fathers should be the major line of defense in keeping the atmosphere of the home and of society in conformity with accepted standards of nght and wrong. HE unwritten code and the family pattern for training our children seem to be: 1. Our children are God's gift to us. 'They give purpose and meaning to life. We accepted the responsibility for rearing our children, educating them, and find our greatest source of joy and happiness in working for and with them. It has been my major responsibility. 2. I have tried to be patient and understanding with my children in order to keep the lines of communication open between them and me. Anger, corporal punishment, condemnation, harsh criticism, tend to close the lines of communication between parents and children, and prevent empathy and understanding. I recall with resentment instances of unmerited and what I thought unjust punishment and criticism i my own life. I have tried to establish a permissive environment for our children, where they would feel free to express their feelings, where they could democratically experiment, share, evaluate, and grow. This was a major challenge. With all my getting, I have tried to gain understanding of them. 3. We have tried not to kill the PATTERNS OF FAMILY LIFE AND ORGANIZATION child's interest by negation and evasion. The children have all wanted to help. We have encouraged them by giving them opportunity and by patiently teaching them how to perform household tasks most efficiently. If, with patience, persistence, and love, you can put a premium on individual development, it pays a thousandfold. Sometimes it seems so much easier to do the task than to teach the child how to do it. I shall never forget Calvin sitting by the fire trying to lace his shoes, with the tearful lament: "You always give me the hard things to do." We tend to forget the difficulties we had in learning to do things when we were small children. 4. We have tried to set a pattern of orderliness in the home. To teach children cleanliness and orderliness is one of the difficult things to do. Parents who succeed in this are the envy of all their neighbors. Some children must be reminded continuously to hang up their clothes, to polish their shoes, to make their beds, and clean the bathroom facillties after they have used them. Sometimes all it requires is a visit to the home of a careless acquaintance, and, by comparison, they feel the need of maintaining the family tradition of cleanliness and order. Personally, I have been grateful many times for the opportunity to co-operate with the schools in teaching the girls better home management by planning to redecorate their bedrooms, closets, or in the installation of the newer devices for hanging clothes, caring for shoes, and various storage items. Girls like projects. Every child needs a dresser and 75 a clothes closet, if possible, especially in the demanding adolescent period. For the boys we bought a small pants presser, particularly for use in their pre-professional days when clothes were at a premium but had to be kept neat and clean. The presser was used every day. It was also a boon to the pleated-skirt girl, who could not throw her skirt into discard because it needed a pressing. Once I watched with sadness the collapse of a fine family. The father had a keen sense of orderliness. For years he poured his wages into new furniture and new clothes for his children. But the odds were against him. 'The buttons were never sewed back on. Stitches that had become loosened were never repaired. The beds and overstuffed furniture were mere trampolines. Then he became discouraged. When all members of a family participate in planning and beautifying the home, assuming responsibility for decorating, painting, and cleaning their rooms, one of the problems of accepting and carrying responsibility is on its way to a solution. 5. I have not injected myself into childish disputes. It seemed better for the children to settle their own disputes. I did not want to be a referee. Intrusion was necessary only to prevent injury or domineering. 6. We do not overprotect our children. I would hesitate asking special favors for them, from the school or the Church. I would rather expect them to stand on their own feet. We have not encouraged belligerency. It is better to promote a spirit of sharing, of give and take. 726 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 7. I have tried to find constructive, useful tasks to keep the children growing; to expose them to good books and music, to supply them with attractive, appropriate recreation at home. Our home has been available to their friends. I have tried to lead the way, to encourage, to motivate, to provide incentive, to recognize their needs, and to cooperate in providing for the needs. I have hoped they would find pleasure in their tasks. When we all worked together at a job to be done, I think they, as well as I, have found real happiness. We all worked in the fields together. How to keep the children busy was of constant concern. I have struggled in my mind over and over as I have said The Lord's Prayer, "Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil,' and tried to make an interpretation for the benefit of my children. It seemed especially important when companions whom we knew did not have a good background, would gravitate, day after day, to our home. One would fear they might undo all the patient efforts of years of training. So the children said I "invented" work — music to be practiced, books to be read. The boys oiled the machinery so many times it was almost bathed in oil. They constructed cars out of discarded motors. (That took considerable time, and brought a bevy of little boys.) We cut down trees for the winter firewood. A lathe and jigsaw in the basement made furniture and playthings for the smaller children, and provided hours of recreation in cutting molds and patterns. My husband accumulated a fair-sized library of plans for children's projects: boats, kites, mechanical toys, furniture. This library was kept in the working area. The boys made their own play equipment: a Ferris wheel, teeters, tricky bars, swings — some on pulleys that extended the length of the yard — sand boxes, and dog houses. 8. I wanted my children to learn to play one or more musical insttuments. I set a schedule, often at five in the morning, and until late evening. Scarcely a day passed that I did not practice with some of them. Stringed instruments are so difficult to learn by oneself, so I studied the violin to help them. They have all co-operated with me. I noticed that if I played music, a rhythmic tune or melody, and left the music open on the piano, that, one by one, the children would try it out and soon learn it. 'They liked melody. Eventually, they would want to play it better than I. Music, to be enjoyed, cannot be a static thing. It is movement, joy, exuberance. 'That is one reason I have wanted each child to be a part of an orchestra or choir. I am amazed at the superior musical training young people are receiving in the schools. If they will only qualify, they will have one more anchor for rich, purposeful living. G. We have made regular attendance at school important. There has been little or no truancy on the part of our children. 10. "When I grow up, I want to be just like Papa." So said a small boy of our group. When questioned what he had in mind, he said, "Papa never wastes a minute." 'Truly the eyes of our children are always evaluating. 'They will be our judges now and later. We have tried to be forthright and honest — no idle PATTERNS OF FAMILY LIFE AND ORGANIZATION 727 promises or threats, and no evasions. Integrity and honesty and truthfulness are important. Our children and we must face the realities of life. We have tricd to treat each child fairly, and to deal justly with them, and to encourage them to be just with one another. 11. I have led the way; I have tried to set the example. I have not forced the children to accompany me to church. 'They have usually followed because they have found friendship and companionship there. Love and persuasion — not with a strap or a stick, not with coercion, but by patient insistence and firmness — have usually won out. A mother should not be too sure of herself; she must keep flexible. She should listen to her children. She may be wrong like the little boy's mother, when he said, "If my mother says it is so, it is so, even if it isn't so." The child may be right. Unjust punishment leads to resentment, and blocks communication and understanding. THEN I decided to make homemaking a life's work and profession, my husband concurring, I had some advantages. We were able to select a home site with enough area for home, garden, and domestic animals, and possibility for expansion. In the absence of zoning laws, we could finish our home as money permitted. We have kept to the policy of staying out of debt. Our home has never had a mortgage, although it has taken twenty years to build, on a_ pay-as-you-go basis. Thus we could put a major emphasis on education for husband and children. Both boys and girls were encouraged to select their vocations as early as possible, with the help of intelligence, aptitude, and interest tests, in order that high school and college time might not be wasted in a trial and error selection of vocational objectives. Each of our children has learned to milk cows, care for chickens, run a tractor, to plow, harrow, and cultivate before he learned to drive a car. 'They have hauled hay, combined grain, and irrigated. Each girl has learned from experts to cook and to make her own clothing. Through 4-H clubs and woolgrowers contests, they have had opportunity to win firsts and grand championships in clothing at county and State fairs. Each child has learned to play one or more musical instruments. All the children use the typewriter, and have had some traming in bookkeeping and_accounting. 'They have gone to political meetings and participated in political campaigns. We were greatly blessed in that our children have been normal physically and mentally. We do not wish to give the impression § that they were all little angels and never got into any mischief. 'They did as all normal children do. They learned to swim in the dirty waters of the canals. 'They played with the neighborhood children. Wayne and his friend shot the neighbor's ducks. He traded two fine turkeys for some hair oil, with a salesman who convinced him he was going bald. Elizabeth spent two years in bed with theumatic fever. Experiences such as these have made life exciting and uncertain. And so it has been a busy life, trying to fill every minute with 728 Church, school, and civic services, when needed. All the children are grown now. Claudia graduated from high school this year with honors. She is still with us. The others have graduated into responsibilities of their own. We have occasional family reunions with the children and grandchildren. We rejoice in the family solidarity, their interest in each other, and their friendship. So far they have shown no disposition to depart from the way in which they were brought up. Sorrow and tragedy have come into our lives, but there has been an acceptance of the inevitable, and no vain, useless lamenting. As far as we know, there is no truer, finer, more satisfying purpose in life than that accepted by the Church as revelation from God: Man is that he may have joy in abundant living, here and hereafter. Co-operation, service, industry, integrity, frugality, compassion, and neighborliness beget love and are the elements of happy living. In our family there has been a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 unity of purpose. Differences in patterns of family living have been talked over together, with the same goal in mind. For example, we have been unable to provide a weekly or monthly allowance for each child, as we should have liked, but we have allocated the income so as to satisfy the most important needs of each child. Where wages would have been paid for farm and other work, the children have been reimbursed. What a child earned was his own to use as he desired. One cannot have financial maturity or security unless one has a chance to handle money of his own. The gospel objectives of life have been our goals. The patterns of family life we have chosen, often after trial and error and study, have been designed or selected to achieve the gospel goal of joy in life for us and our children. 'The happiness and joy in life our children achieve, and the measure of their service and usefulness in their communities, are the criteria of our success. Cloud Cover Betty G. Spencer (I ee day was gloomy! Clouds covered the lofty mountains that were usually framed by my picture window. Yet, even though I could not see the tops that dreary morning, I knew those granite sentinels were there. That morning was a simile to life. Often, we find life's issues obscured by clouds of our own making. When we fail to do our best or evade our responsibilities, excusing ourselves with flimsy, contrived reasons to justify our actions, we are covering the truth with clouds. Beneath the clouds the truth remains—ready, waiting, to guide us in righteousness. Just as the sun's warm rays dispel the clouds on the mountains, our willingness to accept the truths of life, will sweep away the clouds which have hidden the truths from our view. Permanent Home Norma Dee Ryan "We moved into our house when we were first married and have lived there ever since." Hearing these words expressed at various times has, in the past, filled me with much envy, for due to my husband's military service and, subsequently, his occupation as a commercial pilot, we have had to move many times. To hear an acquaintance relate the history of a certain tree planted in her yard several years ago, or to have pointed out to me the thmill a friend has had in remodeling or adding to a beloved home, has been disheartening to me, when I can barely recall some of the apartments and houses we have lived in across the country. This thing that I envied for so long is a feeling of permanence, and I used to think that the only way to find it would be to stay in one spot, one home. 'Then one day I realized that all along I had been enjoying another kind of permanence which is stronger and more stable than any home. And that is the Church. When moving to a new location you must adjust to the climate, the housing, the schools, but when you go to Church, whether it be a large chapel or a small branch of a few members meeting in a rented hall, you are immediately at home. There is no adjustment to be made here! This is the same Church you have always known, the same teachings, and the same procedures. It is the one, steady, dependable "holdingon-place," while you feel your way into your new surroundings. S the mother in your family you can attend Relief Society, where you will feel welcome at once, for the women there will always seem the same as those you have known all your life. Here you continue, without interruption, the course you were following in your previous ward. 'The strength you derive from these associations and the lessons presented in Relief Society, will equip you better emotionally to be able to help the rest of your family make adjustments to their new environment. The best antidote for any homesickness or instability you may feel is to plunge immediately into the Church work that is familiar to you. I may never have a chance to return to Big Spring, Texas, to see if the flowers I planted survived the dust storms, and I know that at least one house we have lived in has been torn down, but the association I had with other Church members and the testimonies I remember which helped strengthen my own, are more valuable to me than any flowers. Our nomadic life may come to a halt, and we may yet be able to watch the small trees we plant grow into big ones, which will be wonderful, of course, but I am glad to know, should we have to move again, that for a sense of belonging, a feeling of permanence, we can always depend on the true, reliable permanent Church. 729 'The Spirit of Thanksgiving Helen H. 66 HERE," Cleta said aloud, I sticking the' last chrysanthemum in the vase, "they may not look florist quality, but they are decorative." Lucky, at least a few stragglers stood the ordeal, she thought, of these crisp November nights. She moved to the window and watched the big fleecy snowflakes swirl to the sidewalk, then melt away. This would be the first Thanksgiving she and the children would be alone. It had always been such a special day in the family. Kent had felt that they should spend the day filled with the traditions and lore of that first 'Thanksgiving, and she had agreed. "It helps the children appreciate their great heritage," he had often said, "and reminds us all to give thanks for our blessings." 730 Trutton Her thoughts were interrupted by her young son Danny as he came dashing into 'the room carrying his snowsuit. "Mommy, help me put this on. I can't do it alone." She turned from the window and took the coat. "Of course, dear." "It's too little," he said, as she tugged to get his arm into the tight sleeve. "I know, but it will have to do this year. We'll manage it somehow." "Why?" he asked. "Well, it's quite simple. Haven't the money to buy you another one. Come on, darling." She gave him a slight shove after zipping the suit. "We have shopping to do, and I want to stop by and pay Mrs. Larson." "You had better hurry," he yelled We to his two sisters in the next room, "Mommy and I are both ready." "So are we." Dawn and Heather appeared in the doorway, with Dawn, as usual, the spokesman for both of them. "We've been ready longer than you." Cleta managed a smile in spite of the loneliness that had clung to her all morning, as she reached down and took Danny's hand. "You really do look rather 'poured into that suit, but you look precious." "What's precious?" he asked seriously. She squeezed his hand. "That I love you. Come on, let's go. Our insurance check will be here today. We have things to do." All the way to town, she listened to the girls in the back seat chatter about their plans. "We will do the same things as always, wont we, Mother?" Dawn asked, "I mean the big dinner and program?" "Of course,' Cleta always." said, "as ENT would want it that way, she knew that. I'll read the same story, she thought, of that first Thanksgiving. Danny will stop me often to ask questions and add his 'deas about the friendly Indians who had joined in that first gathering. Dawn and Heather had asked the same questions when they were four and a half. Then the story would be over, and everyone would take a turn telling what they were especially thankful for — and, in the past, Kent had closed the little program by reading Psalm 100 from the Bible. "Daddy won't be home for 73) 732 Thanksgiving?" Danny asked, looking up at her. "Will he?" "No, dear," she answered. "Tl miss him." "Danny!" Heather leaned over the seat, and took his arm. "Be quiet." They were at the post office now. Cleta stopped the car, and slipped an arm around her young son. "We'll all miss him, Danny, but we'll have the best Thanksgiving we can. And, in the meantime, you stay here with the girls. I'll be ght back." "All right, Mommy," he said. "I won't move." She reached in her purse for the key to her box, and walked quickly up to number 218. But even before she stuck her hand in the box, she could see it was empty. "That can't be," she said aloud. "It's always here." Cleta hurried to the window and spoke to the man at the general delivery department. "Is the mail on time?" "Yes, Ma'am," he said, without looking up. "It has all been boxed." "I was just thinking, my letter might be mislaid, or placed in the wrong box." She tried to appear calm. "It's always here on this date." He raised his head and looked at her. "Not likely, Ma'am." "Are the trains running behind schedule?" she tried again. "I guess so, back East. Been some bad storms according to the papers." She thanked him and left. There was no need going to the grocery store now. She had no money for extra groceries. At the door, she paused, watching a group of youngsters along the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 street tossing the snowballs at one another. 'They were having such fun. Dawn, Heather, and Danny were enjoying themselves from the safety of the car. "Oh, Kent, what shall I do?" she breathed softly. EATHER came running to meet her when she started down the steps of the post office. "Ts anything wrong, Mother?" she asked anxiously. Cleta didn't answer until they were both settled back in the car, and then she said as calmly as she could, "Our insurance check didn't come, children." "Why?" Danny asked. "The check comes from Philadelphia. Trains are running behind because of bad storms," she said. "What will we do, Mother?" Dawn asked. "Do?" she said, and then she remembered the ten dollars she hadn't given to Mrs. Larson yet. If she used it today, and paid her when the insurance check came, the children wouldn't be disappointed. It was just too much to dampen their expectations by telling them there would be no big Thanksgiving dinner. Only — she had _ promised Mrs. Larson she would pay her today. "Can we still have the story, Mommy?" Danny scooted over against her when she started the car. "Can we, Mommy?" Wies, dear." "Who will read Daddy's part?" Heather asked quietly. "I know part of it." "We'll see," Cleta answered absentmindedly, "'later." THE SPIRIT OF THANKSGIVING If she asked Mrs. Larson if she minded waiting until her check came, naturally she would insist on waiting, even if she needed the money badly. Mrs. Larson was like that. She was elderly, and had very little to live on. Still the children.... Decisions, decisions, how she wished Kent were here. He always knew the right thing to do. They were nearing Mrs. Larson's little cottage now; she slowed down, and then suddenly stopped the car. "Tl only be a minute," she said, climbing out before she had a chance to change her mind. "We owe Mrs. Larson, and I think we should pay her — even if it means no turkey dinner tomorrow. Don't you think?" The children looked at her but. Said nothing, not even Danny. Quickly she left the car and walked up the steps and rang the doorbell. Mrs. Larson answered the door, smiling broadly. "Hello, Mrs. 'Thornson. Come in." "I brought the ten dollars I owe you." "Thank you, dear. I have my bag all packed. When you said you would bring the money over, I called my son and told him that I could come and spend Thanksgiving with his family." "Oh, that's wonderful. And you were counting on this?" she asked, handing Mrs. Larson the money. Eres." "Well, ''m certainly glad I didn't forget to come by," she said with relief. "Have a good trip. Now I must run." 733 "Goodbye, Mrs. Thornson, and thanks so much." Snow was sifting silently down from the sky as she walked slowly back to the car. She was so thankful she had paid Mrs. Larson. But now she must face the children. They would be brokenhearted. She didn't blame them. She had failed them on this first Thanksgiving without Kent. "Heather really can say part of Psalm 100,' Dawn called out when she neared the car. "Want to hear it, Mother?" "Very much," she said, fighting back tears. "I'm listening." "I know this part," Heather said quietly. "Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise: be thankful unto him, and bless his name." "Wonderful!" Cleta said. "Then you most certainly may do Daddy's part." She hesitated, looking from one to the other. Weren't they going to complain? She waited. The children were still making plans. Finally she said, "You don't mind the delay in our Thanksgiving dinner?" Serious Heather wrapped her arms around Cleta's neck. "No, Mother," she said. "You and Daddy always said that wasn't the important part of Thanksgiving. Didn't you?" Cleta's heart was too full to speak for several moments. When she could control her emotions, she said, "You really do understand the true spirit of Thanksgiving. Our precious little family — Daddy would be so proud of you, and so am I." Sixty Years Ago nn Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, October 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or ALL NATIONS" INTERESTING VISITS AND MEETINGS — Colonia Juarez, Mexico: Early Thursday morning, June 27, Brother Edward Eyring, home missionary, President Mary B. Eyring and Eunice S. Harris, in the interest of the Relief Society, and Caroline Eyring, first counselor in the Primary, left their homes in Colonia Juarez, to visit the colonies in the mountains. A pleasant journey of about eight miles brought us to the mouth of the canyon, where the change of scenery, combined with the cool atmosphere made the ascent of the mountain indeed pleasant.... We had a magnificent view of the beautiful valley 1520 feet below... And as far as the eye could see rolling hills interlaced with canyon gorges and covered with a forest of pine, oak, and juniper.... We continued our journey through the most sublime mountain scenery to Pacheco.... We met with the Relief Society, then continued our journey to Garcia... And met with the Relief Society.... Early Saturday morning we resumed our journey to Chuichupa, located in an open valley forty miles south of Garcia. On Sunday we met in a special meeting with the Relief Society and Primary.... — Mary B. Eyring UTAH WOMAN'S PRESS CLUB: Still all the beautiful things have not been written, the world of thought opens wider and wider as we advance step by step and behold the wonders contained therein. Then, my comrades of that world, press on and on Come Inspiration, flame divine, My thoughts attune, thy fervor lend, Unveil the past, o'er the future shine, Ah! Memory come, be thou my friend.... — Lydia D. Alder A WORK OF ART: By courtesy of Miss Ada Patterson we have received the new book... Entitled "By the Stage Door."... There is a great deal of character study in the work, it is a book to make one think deeply. It might easily be called a psychological study.... The language is delicate and refined and one need not be afraid to trust the reading of it to an innocent, inexperienced girl, in fact, the book is good enough, in language and sentiment, and sufficiently beautiful in outward appearance to be placed on the drawing room table in any home, be it cottage or palatial mansion. — Book Review A WOMAN MISSIONARY — in the Society Islands — 1850: The king is a very friendly man, agreeable in conversation. Is pleased with the American elders because of their industrious habits. He prides himself in doing more work than any other native man. He is subject in his official capacity to the French Governor. On the 27th we attended the morning service in the House of Prayer. After the close Hoatan, our fatherly chief, addressed the people.... The sea abounds with luxuries, and the land teems with good things.... The north star we cannot see, the grand cross is in the firmament over us. To the same God we pray and invoke blessings... - — Mrs.