[Vol49 | October 1962 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Fiction | Title: Two | Author: Ashby]
TWO HANDY GIFTS FOR CHRISTMAS Sb 2 > FF eS™ Pr Srvg? Grain To make the candy cane motif: 1. Stitch the ends of the red and white rickrack together and _ interlock them together all along by putting one point over the other, similar to braiding, only with two strands. Catch the other ends with stitches, and press. 2. Cut a 20" strip of this interlocked rickrack to use for the candy 7 — ", oe ee eee ee 749 To make bag: 1. Cut two rectangles of the cloth, both measuring 18" by 14". 2. Cut two handles from the cloth 14" by 314". Fold the long way and press to triple thickness. Now stitch securely along the edges. 3. Apply the candy cane design (directions for making candy canes are given below) on one piece of sailcloth. 4. With right sides together, stitch the seams at long sides and lower edge. Invert and press. 5. Fold and press under 2" for the top hem. Stitch. 6. Center and pin the handle ends to the wrong side of the front and back hem 3" below the edge of the bag. Firmly stitch the ends to the bag and then stitch again at the top edge of the bag. Wwe wwe wwe we cane. Form the cane-shape diagonally onto one piece of the sailcloth and stitch in place, folding the raw edges under. Stitch the remaining interlocked rickrack onto the i inner edge of the top hem of the bag so that only the points of the rickrack show. 4. Tack the satin bow and a tiny bell where indicated on candy cane. Out of the Wilderness CHAPTER 4 Shirley Thulin Synopsis: Marian Morgan, a widow and mother of six children, has come with her family to their mining property in Montana, planning to oversee the assessment work which must be done to hold the property. In the mountain wilderness Marian meets Jake Hadley, the owner of an adjacent property, whose motives she mistrusts. ARIAN put the bucket of M water down. Her fingers were suddenly too weak to hold onto the handle. Jake picked it up and started towards the cabin with the long strides of a confident man. For a minute she could not follow him, then, knowing there was nothing else to do, she turned and made one foot go in front of the other. At the cabin door Jake stood waiting for her, looking at her, and she felt uncomfortable, like a schoolgirl caught by the football captain with her hair amiss. "Sure is a lot to be done around here," Jake told her, not seeming to notice her embarrassment, and yet at the same time enjoying it. "Yes, but Jim and I." "IT have a full crew at my mine this year. 'That gives me some spare time." Jake was a big man and now he was in the doorway. Marian could not get past to open the door. She had to stand there, 7150 not knowing what to do. She had felt this way once before, when she was in a play at school, and the leading boy wouldn't give her the right cues. "Maybe I could come and help out some each day. You would be surprised what a little paint and fixing can do to a place like this." "Yes, I suppose so, but we hadn't planned." "Oh, should I take this in?" he indicated the water bucket, and she knew he had timed his question to interrupt her objections. Jim looked up from the table where he had been working all morning, making lists and planning. At the sight of Jake, he got up and took the bucket. He didn't say anything. He just looked at his mother and then at Jake and set the bucket on the drainboard. "Howdy, son," Jake said, "I was just telling your mother how much there is to be done around here. Why, the work on the cabin alone would cost quite a bit, and take a lot of time, not to mention the work on that old worthless mine." "Yes, we know," Jim said, "we plan." "T bet if you were to add up all the cost of the improvements that need to be done around here, and OUT OF THE WILDERNESS the cost of the labor it would take, you would be going way in the hole each year. Now, I'd suggest you let me help you." "We don't need any help." Jim was suddenly like a young cil trying to protect what was his. "Now, wait a minute, son. There's no use to get all upset." Jake had a half-smile on his face. It was as though he were enjoying Jim's upset. "I only want to help you." "T told you we don't need any help." Jim's words were measured. "We can get along just fine." ARIAN could see that Jim was angered. "Just what is it that you want, Mr. Hadley?" she asked. Jake's grin disappeared at the unexpected firmness in Marian's voice. "Well, I thought you might consider selling out. I'm prepared to give you a good deal, and you'd be wise to accept." Marian thought of the leaky roof, the ugly black stove, Sue's frightened screams at the sight of a little animal. She thought of the bare floors and the old scrubboard. "Well, we hadn't thought about it, but maybe." "Mom! You wouldn't. You just wouldn't!"' "Don't decide just yet." Jake looked at Jim and then back at Marian. "I never did believe in hasty decisions. I'll come back in a week or two." Jake left then, and there was silence between mother and son. Jim stood at the doorway with bent shoulders and Marian sat down near the table. Then Jim said, "Mom, you really hate this place, don't you?" His 751 words were like something he didn't want to say but had to. "No, dear, I don't hate it, exactly," Marian spoke slowly. She wanted to tell him how she truly felt and didn't know how. "It's more that I just don't understand the cabin, the forest.... I'm just not at home here." "Mom, please don't sell. Keep it for... For when I grow up. I want to have it always. Please, Mom. You won't have to come back ever again. I'll take care of it from now on." "We'll see, son. Now, tell me what all this is." She picked up one of the papers he had been working on. "Dad told me that each year we have to do $150 worth of improvements for each claim we have. I am figuring out how much money I'm going to have to charge myself per hour to add up to the right amount." "Charge yourself?" "Yes, you see, I won't really collect any money. 'That's how Dad and I did before. You just estimate how much your time is worth. If you had to hire the help, that is " He stopped, not being able to find the words to explain. "I think I understand." Marian felt his need for understanding. "You are sort of making a bid on the job, but instead of hiring anyone, you do the work for yourself, is that it?" Jim looked relieved. "Yes, and I have to figure how long each job is going to take me to make it come to the nght amount." "What jobs are you planning to do, Jim?" "Tll have to dig a shallow ditch along the railway back into the mine 7152 so that the water can drain out. That's one of the things we've had to do each year, so I know how. Then [ll have to fill in all the chuck holes in the road that leads to the mine from the cabin. They are pretty bad this year. That will take quite awhile." "But, I don't see how digging along a track that no mine cars are going to go on, and filling in chuck holes on a road that no automobile will travel on, is going to accomplish anything,' Marian told him. "Mom," Jim began, then whatever he was going to say, he decided against it and began anew. "'Let's just say that it's sort of the rules. Anything you do to improve the mine, keeps your lease for you." His voice was patient, as though he were explaining something to a child. ARIAN looked at her halfgrown son in a new light. She could see that he knew what he must do, and just as she had let David make plans, she must now let Jim. It was a comfortable feeling, having an almost-grown son, and she smiled to herself as he went on telling her of the way he was going to haul dirt with the wheelbarrow to fill in the pit holes, and what a job it would be to cut down some small trees for replacing some of the badly rotted timber in the mine. He ended his explanation with a faraway look. "Someday I'll be able to go deep into the mine as far as Dad did, and make a lot more repairs. Maybe next year." "Jim, the mine isn't any good any more, is it?" "No ore has been taken out for a long time. Costs too much to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 ship it. It used to be one of the richest mines around here, but shipping costs went up. Dad told me that if somcone ever builds a mill close, it could pay again." "Then why did your father want to keep it? Why do you?" "It isn't only the mine, mother. It's the land. Its." His words ended, but in his eyes, the dream continued. Marian knew what he was feeling and how deep the feeling was within him. She hadn't known in time for David, but she was thankful that she did know for Jim. Marian got up and looked out of the window to check on the children. They were still playing near the cabin. They had been all morning, and now besides little colorful rocks, their collection included pine cones and snail shells from along the bank of the small stream. Marian was glad that Sue no longer felt the need for the protection the cabin afforded. She seemed almost as much at home outside as did the bovs. Jim was busy writing more figures, so Marian got out her cookbook and turned to her grandmothers bread recipe. 'The batch she made long years ago had not turned out well, and she had given it up. But now there wasn't a grocery store handy on the corner, and she knew she had to learn. We can't eat baking-powder biscuits the rest of the summer, she told herself. "Mom, do you suppose Ted and Jed could help me?" Jim looked up from the table. "I think they could. They're ten, and pretty husky." A smile spread over Jim's face. OUT OF THE WILDERNESS "T used to help Dad plenty when I was ten. I could handle a shovel fairly well, and could help smooth and tramp down the dirt on the road. I dragged trees to the mine and." He picked up his pencil and made a new row of figures. "There, that ought to do it," he said and folded the papers. "Pll go to the mine this afternoon and look things over, and then tomorrow I['ll get a good early start on my work." "What about the roof?" Marian was reluctant to mention it, but she didn't want to go through another rainstorm without its being fixed. "Oh, yes, I almost forgot.." "Are you sure you can do it?" "Yes, I helped Dad with the woodshed." ARIAN stirred and measured and smiled to herself as she thought how like a man it was to tarpaper an old shed first and let the house go. And in so thinking, a feeling of loneliness for her husband filled her. She stirred faster and tried to see the words on the page, but they were dancing through her tears. Jim went out, and Marian knew that more than the wilderness of her surroundings, or fear of the unknown, she would have trouble conquering loneliness of heart, and the wilderness of her soul. Marian gave the fresh dough a final pat and covered it with a clean cloth. She went out into the dooryard and watched the children. Her eyes swept across the stretch of blue sky circled by giant green pines. She looked at the road which led to the mine, and it seemed to beckon her, but she could not follow. The mine had somehow been an enemy 7153 all these years. Maybe tomorrow she could follow the short road and make the mine her friend, but not today. Today, she would make some hot suds in an old bucket and scrub the bare boards clean with a_ sturdy brush. She would find the hammer and nails in the shed and try to fix the loose boards along the wall and in the floor. She would wash the windows and have Sue shine them with bits of torn newspapers, and she would look for some wire or rope to make a clothesline between two trees. Marian went into the shed and hunted for nails and wire with a warty eye. She remembered the spiders she had encountered in the shed as a bride. Picking up boxes, and looking in old crocks, she happened to find a large shoebox filled with seeds. There were packages of carrots, peas, radishes, and lettuce. "Jed," Marian stepped outside the shed, "look, I've found some seeds. Would you and Ted run up to the mine and tell Jim to bring the shovel when he comes? We're going to plant a garden!" The twins hurried along. 'They enjoyed being near the mine and were glad for an excuse to go there. "Mommy, what's a garden?" Jill asked. "Oh, don't you know anything, jill?" 'Tommy said. "A garden is a field with cows and horses and hay in it, like at Grandma's." "Not that kind of a garden," Sue corrected, "ours will have... What will ours have, Mom?" "See? Carrots, peas, lettuce. 1 found them in the shed." "I don't like peas and carrots." Tommy screwed up his nose. 7154 "You'll like these, fresh from our own garden." "T like cows and horses," said Jill. Marian laughed and hugged her baby close to her. She was so glad for the prospect of a new project, especially a garden to tend. "Here comes Jim already," pointed Sue. "And he's got something." ARIAN looked. Jim and the twins were just coming out of the wooded area, into the clearing. Jim was holding something—an animal, with long legs.. Jed and Ted were having a hard time keeping up with Jim's long strides. He was very disturbed, and for a moment Marian was frightened, then as he neared her, her fears turned to compassion. "What is it?" "A fawn, Mother. Just a little fellow, left to die." Jim stooped and tenderly laid the bewildered little animal down on a grassy spot near the shed. "Left to die?" Marian knelt with Jim, and so did the children, all but Sue, who kept a little distance away. "Mom, how could anyone...?" Marian looked at Jim. His mouth was drawn in a hard line and his face muscles were tightening. "How could anyone do what, son?" "Someone killed the mother deer and left the fawn to go it on his? Own. "Killed his mother?" 'Tommy asked, his big blue eyes wide. "Maybe they didn't know about the fawn," Marian said. "Maybe they didn't kill her, maybe she just got sick and died," Ted suggested. "Maybe he's an orphan," Jed said. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 "Yes, an orphan," peated. "He's an orphan, all right." Jim rubbed the deer's head and then patted him on the side. "Jim, what makes you think someone killed the deer?" "T found the fawn first, and then could see where something had been dragged through the brush to a big tree. And there at the bottom of the trunk, were the feet and part of the hide where they had cleaned her." "Maybe someone was lost and hungry. They might have had to do it, Jim." "No. 'Those miners do this all the time — shoot them out of season. I heard Dad talking about it. We found one once. It was on our property that time, too." Jim's eyes Tommy re narrowed. "Now I know where I saw Jake before. Dad was talking to him... Telling him it was wrong." Marian put her hand on Jim's shoulder. "Don't, Jim. Don't feel so strongly about it. You're not sure Jake did it. Maybe it was someone else." Jim pulled himself from her. "Stay close to him, so he won't get up and run. I'm going to see what I can find to make a pen with." "Mommy, is that a horse or a cow?" Jill asked. "It's a baby deer, sweetie. What shall we name him?" And while the children were suggesting one name after another, Marian's heart went out to Jim. He is so intense, she thought, and so lacking in judgment. I dare not think of what may happen if Jake comes back here again. (To be continued) New Desian Lucille R. Perry October's air has disciplined the vine Whose restless march entwined the porch in green; Shorter days have shaped the new design Of arrowed flocks, and time, caught in between The sweet and somber seasons, join the two In wedded beauty — a rose unwilted grows Beside the border of chrysanthemum. Like a wind-twirled prism, earth delights In tawny color, while westward evening comes With deep blue mists foretelling winter nights. 15 Part VI — "Bid Them Farewell" (Conclusion) Ilene H. Kingsbury 1 7 OW, the emigrant was con- ~\ cerned with only the immediate past of Uncle David. This was a past of victory for her brother whose songs echoed the Merthyr hills, filled the gentle valleys of Wales and sent reverberations straight to the great national song fest called an Eisteddfod. His mother's dream had come true. His medals of honor lined the mantel for all to see. Look closely. The one attached to a gold chain had the picture of the Queen on one side. On the reverse was a wreath, a motto, a date, a name. One summet's day the "Swedish Nightingale" Jenny Lind had unclasped_ that chain from around her neck and, in the seeing of thousands, placed it about the neck of Uncle David. He had fairly won this treasure from the wor]d-loved voice of song. When he made his way home up the Cardiff Valley to Merthyr, his kindred and friends met him afar off. They mingled their voices with his. They knew joy. In a sort of ceremony the medallion had been passed from one admiring hand to another. 'Then, with near reverence, it was placed 156 among other wonderful honors. When the emigrant mother and her five children viewed this memento for the last time, they all wondered what would become of it after Uncle David no longer could catch the gleam from its surface. At this point in the story the emigrant unloosed the drawstrings of her little velvet bag and unfolded a white silk handkerchief most carefully. 'There, before their very eyes, reposed Uncle David's chain and medal! All hands reached to caress it. All eyes feasted on its beauty. All hearts wondered just how it was that their mother could now quite magically produce the very item they believed back across the great Atlantic. They all smiled and hummed as she explained that at the last minute Uncle David had very secretly pressed it into her hands. To cover its beautiful presence he had drawn his handkerchief from his pocket and swaddled it carefully in silken folds. He had exacted a promise from his sister to keep it as a remembrance and perhaps, in some far-off place, award it to a sweet-voiced niece or nephew. She had promised. HAND TO THE PLOW "I want to wear it!' demanded little Sannie. Her mother quickly slipped the chain about the little neck, and Sannie instantly became a beautiful singing princess who was loved by all the world. 'The problem then became how to get the chain off of her. The mother decided to let Sannie wear it at least until sunset. At that moment David, the namesake of Uncle David, said that, well, if he couldn't sing very well, at least his was not a bad voice, and perhaps he should have it. The brothers and sisters laughed at him. His looks of misery startled them. How else could they know that he had yearned for that piece of honor from the moment Uncle David had placed it on the mantel? Mothers are masters of compromise. 'The emigrant now made a most unusual one. She leaned forward, released the special spring that held the medal to the chain and, with a quick thrust, laid it in the palm of David's hand. He was as speechless as the rest. "That's it!" she said. William blinked incredulously. Eddie felt called on to remark that the thing looked like a common old shilling piece to him, which in America was worth about twenty-four and a third cents. It couldn't be so great, then, could it? [AvID flipped the gold piece from side to side. He ran his thumbnail along the minted wreath, he wet his forefinger and pressed it against the raised surface. How it gleamed! How it beckoned the glance to stay and admire. He tossed it from one hand to the other, he 757 pretended to make it disappear, which frightened his mother. He became quite adept at spinning it on the arm of the pew seat. But games and stories and gifts were not the entire order of that war-torn afternoon. 'The writhing train lurched, shuddered, and Shrieked. It shunted itself to a sidetrack. 'The boys tried to ascertain the cause of such a commotion. Their secret hopes had at last been realized — they were in the war! Great logs had been thrown across the track just ahead. The repairmen had ceased to try to remove them. Instead, they had come running toward the train yelling of disaster and waving hats and shovels. The only fortunate aspect was that the siding was near, and a temporary refuge could be claimed. Eddie and William jumped off the still moving car and ran forward to the engine. David sat down again with disdain for such trivial excitement, for wasn't he now the owner of a gold piece that money could not buy? A noise resembling a wail, a moan, a cry of distress was heard coming from outside. The roll of a drum officially announced the approach of army men who had power to capture, impress, or conscript soldiers for their cause. The word was screamed from car to car that soon every man and boy who could carry a gun would be dragged away. 'Terror swept every soul. A cringing of size was apparent in each traveler. A prayer ascended for preservation from this bloody conflict. Each mother feared the day when she could no longer say her son stood 758 beside her, but was a memory of this day of horror. The emigrant now remembered every word the station agent had said about this thing called conscription. 'This forced enlistment was a part of every war, she knew that, but this was so newly her country and thus not quite the part of her that Wales had been, that she was not ready to spill the blood of herself and children that it might endure. Loyalty she knew. Honor she had lived for. But give them a chance of decision, a moment to stride about these ways, a day in which to become a part of their new land. LREADY the mother had lost sight of two of her boys. Heaven help them now. In haste she tore off her shawl and tall black hat and draped them around the head and shoulders of David. His little sisters began to laugh at the sight of their handsome brother looking all of a sudden like an old woman. He was about to shove them to silence and toss off this feminine disguise when some men of uncouth looks entered the car. The emigrant glanced in panic at the two girls now huddled in a far corner of their little sanctuary. Quickly she sat down beside David and gently turned his shoulders with her own so his face was averted from the aisle. Inexorably stomped the recruiters. They dragged a youth from the arms of his dear ones. He was no longer a traveler, an emigrant, a free man. He was a soldier in a war. As the men approached David they seemed to suspect that here was an odd creature. But then, one couldn't always tell about these RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 foreigners. Didn't they? One of the Southerners tried to peer beneath the brim of the hat. In doing this his eyes caught a gleam of gold. He snatched at David's hand. Wasn't money better than a taw boy who probably couldn't speak English and might run away from camp when the back was turned? 'The four travelers involved were paralyzed with fear. Pray now little mother. This is the most crucial moment of your days. The man suddenly dropped the hand that held the medal and tainted the air with an oath. He straightened up, twisted himself about so as to extricate himself from the property of these queer people, and stumbled toward his companion. No breath was drawn. Only hearts burst with fright. This man, then, waved his arms and in excited phrases fairly yelled his displeasure. "See that piece of money? 'That's the kind English sailors give to boys they want to spirit away to the sea! First they get these boys dead drunk, then they put a shilling in their hands as the sign that they now belong to the Queen's navy. When the boys get to know anything, and see the com in theit hand, then they know that they have to go to sea. Conscription, they call it. Say, now, I never thought that the Union boys were putting this trick to practice. If they have been through this train, they must be hiding near in the hills. Get out of here!" The two soldiers hunched their shoulders and quickly sidled out of the car. They forgot to take with them the lad they had already captured! Dressed awfully funny, HAND TO THE PLOW THE emigrant mother had always believed in miracles. Here, indeed, was one right under her very nose. David brushed aside the hat, then leaned over and placed it on his mother's head. At the same moment he kissed her on the cheek. He folded the shawl and laid it on her lap. Then, with a grin of inner satisfaction, that of knowing all the time how things would turn out, he tossed Uncle David's present from Jenny Lind high in the air and caught it with a swoop of his hand. The little girls laughed at this sign of confidence. The mother said nothing. The noise outside the train was as loud as when the warning was raised, but now it took on the nature of spectators at a parade who cheer the floats and the horses and the marshal of the day and generally feel that this is a jubilee. However, as the emigrant counted her children, she knew that her two other boys were nowhere to be seen. She got a wider view of how the land lay by looking up and down the tracks on each side of the train. She could not recognize them among the throng of workers and travelers. She noticed that each person had a feeling of questioning, a thought of wondering why the men had left so suddenly — and that without taking a single conscript with them. Funny people, those from the South. The emigrant became frantic for the whereabouts of William and Eddie. She ran to the engine end of the train, all the while searching for a clue to their whereabouts. Her strength was about gone by now, and she thought to sit down 159 on a railroad tie that was part of the usual supply along the tracks. As she did so she heard her name called. As she looked up she just could not believe what she saw. There was William standing on a part of the engine, the sort of running boards kind of platform near the huge boiler. He looked like a worker for the railroad, for on his head he wore a tight fitting cap with a little visor front. In his hand he held a small bucket of grease. He called down to her. "Mother! See, I am a tallowpot!" If he had said he was a man from Mars she would not have been more astonished. He took a flying leap from the side of the hot boiler and landed almost at her feet. "See what I have been doing! Just as I got to the front of the train the troops came riding up. I didn't know what to do or where to hide. The man in the cab window called to me, put his hat on my head, and this tallowpot in my hand, and said to climb on the engine and pretend I worked for him. As I poured tallow into the steam chest where all the valves were, I thought I would be burned alive. 'The rail man ordered me to be a little more careful or we would all be on fire. As the troops rode by they thought I was a real tallowpot and didn't stop to take me to the war." A flash of thought shook the emigrant. If only one could have enough hats handy, one could work a miracle with each of them. How sacrilegious a thought. But now was no time to straighten out such a tricky thought. She stood up and walked back to her part of the train. She glanced quickly about, search- 760 ing for Eddie. All of a sudden there he was running toward het. He put his arm about her shoulder. "Mother, guess what happened?" She could not reply. "T lost William just as the soldiers came riding in so I crawled under the logs that had been covering the track. 'The horses jumped right over me once, and I thought it was judgment day at last. After they rode away I wiggled out, and here I am." A mother certainly has a lot to endure, thought this one, whose three sons were still hers, whose lives she could guard and guide and take on to the valley. Do not wait for nightfall for silence to pray, do [- C =~ ol ~~ JIU RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 not wait for silence and calm, do not wait to say that word of gratitude for prayers answered by miracle. The journey continued when the logs were removed and the soldiers were no longer a menace. As the wheels rolled and the smoke of the wood burner up front became as a mantle over the top of the train, the mother thought that the war and the Bend and the ocean were better left in the past. For now she faced the West, and there was no turning back. She gathered her children around her as twilight descended and the evening enclosed them under the watchcare of the Lord. Teaaltealy=\a C a P ws I JONG Viola Ashton Candland October, let me savor Your mellow, ripened days Of Indian summer flavor, Before cold winter flays All nature with its icy whip. October, your elixir is sweet upon my lip. October, let me gather A beautiful bouquet. Too soon the frosty weather Lays waste your fine array Of autumn-clad chrysanthemums. October, hold them tenderly until November comes. October, let me glean from you Tranquility in age; Let Indian summer's warmth imbue Me with the faith to gauge The waning-season's worth. October, let me hoard your wealth Against the winter's dearth.