[Vol49 | October 1962 | Sequence: 10 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
[Editorial: The Wages of Indulgence Marianne C. Sharp]
Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Repor:; change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. TS Gospel Restoration - Part of the Eternal Plan Elder Mark E. Petersen Of the Council of the Twelve his presence before the world was formed. The earth was created as a home for us. Adam and Eve were sent here first, and through them we, the rest of the human race, were destined to be born. The purpose of our coming into mortality was to obtain flesh and bone bodies, so essential to our progress, and to be placed here in a probationary life in which we could prove our worthiness to come back into our Father's presence, for it was his desire that we develop and become like unto him. In order to have Adam and Eve and their children clearly understand their relationship to the Almighty, it was necessary that God appear to them and talk with them face to face, so that they could see him, hear him, and know him. They were commanded to worship him, and to make their worship intelligent, they were permitted to see and talk with him. It is interesting to note that God even appeared to the first murderer, Cain, and talked with him face to face after his crime. Not even Cain and his children — banished as they were into the land of Nod — would have any excuse for not serving God, for the Lord did appear to and talk with Cain. 716 \ S children of God we lived in As the human race began to grow, Satan came among them, and sowed seeds of disbelief. He taught them to love darkness better than light, and as he did so an apostasy from the truth developed. Many fought against God. Always there was the faithful group, but many drifted away into error and sin. The apostasy developed so fast and so far that in the days of Enoch the Lord called him to bring the people back from their disobedience. So evil were they that they attempted to slay Enoch, but the Lord protected him. The Lord was determined to save his people if they would only listen to him But many of them, having fallen away so far, had lost their true knowledge of God. 'Therefore, that knowledge had to be restored once again, and so God appeared to and walked and talked with his servant Enoch. It was a new revelation of God in that day. It was another attempt of the Lord to call his people back to the way of truth. Angels were sent to help him as part of this new revelation of God in his day. Enoch told the people of this new appearance of the Lord. Said he: "I saw the Lord and he stood before my face, and he talked with GOSPEL RESTORATION me even as a man talketh one with another, face to face." As a result of his labors, a great conversion took place among the honest in heart, all of whom were gathered together into the city of Enoch and were called Zion, the pure in heart. But there were many who rebelled and continued in their apostasy. Enoch wept for them, and the heavens wept. When Enoch and his city were taken into heaven, only a few faithful were left remaining on the earth. The apostasy continued until the time of Noah. Again, the Lord attempted to call his people back, once again by a personal revelation of himself. Just as he had appeared to Adam, to Seth, to Cain, to Enoch, so he now appeared to Noah and walked and talked with him, in what was a new revelation of God for that day. Mankind could not have excuse, for God _ personally came to earth and made himself known. It was another attempt to stave off further apostasy, and to bring the people back to the knowledge of God. But the people still rebelled. The Lord gave them 120 years in which to repent, but they would not. Noah preached with power, but they resisted him. "There were giants in the earth in those days," and they sought Noah to take away his life, and the Lord warned that "My spirit shall not always strive with man." "And it came to pass that Noah continued his preaching unto the people, saying: Hearken, and give heed to my words; Believe and trepent of your sins and be baptized 717 in the name of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, even as our fathers, and ye shall receive the Holy Ghost, that ye may have all things made manifest; and if ye do not this, the floods will come in upon you." But the scripture says "they hearkened not," and Noah's "heart was pained that the Lord had made man on the earth." So great was the apostasy that "The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was cortupt; for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth." So came the flood, and Noah and his family — eight souls — were saved, together with the living creatures they had taken with them into the ark. But the Lord was not to give up. He was ready to start a new dispensation on the earth with Noah and his family. To make certain that they understood the gospel, and knew God, the Lord appeared, and walked and talked with Noah, and gave him commandments. Again, the Lord was granting unto man a new revelation of himself as a means of convincing them of the truth of the gospel. But it was not long until sin again overcame much of the righteousness of Noah's family. As new generations came, they, too, drifted away; they, too, began to apostatize. This new apostasy continued to the days of Abraham, who, in speaking of his own family said, "My fathers having turned from their righteousness and from the holy commandments which the Lord their God had given unto them, un- 718 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 to the worshiping of the gods of the heathen, utterly refused to hearken to my voice." Abraham's own father was an idolator. But the Lord appeared to Abraham in that time of idolatry, giving to him the true knowledge of the living God, despite the apostasy even in Abraham's own family. God walked and talked with Abraham, as he did also with his son Isaac and with Jacob. Evidently there were few faithful believers in the day of Jacob, for when he and his family went to Egypt to avoid the consequences of the famine, there were but "three score and ten" to go. The Israelites multiplied rapidly in Egypt, and by the time they had spent 400 years in that land they were numerous. But 400 years in Egypt — a land of idolatry — took their toll in a loss of faith among the Israelites, who began to follow the ways of their captors. Israel began to apostatize again. Many of them adopted the ways and the religion of the Egyptians and departed from the true faith. The Lord had a great destiny for Israel, but he could not work it out with them in a state of apostasy. So he raised up Moses to bring them out of Egypt, and lead them to the promised land. God knew how far they had departed from the truth, and endeavored to bring them back. As was the case with earlier similar apostasies, only a restoration of the truth would overcome error. So God gave to Israel of that day another — and to them a new — revelation of himself. Moses walked and talked with him. Seventy of the elders of Israel went into the mount where they beheld the Lord in person, and even ate and drank in his presence. They could testify of him to the rest of the people. The Ten Commandments were given. 'The mighty sequence on Mt. Sinai took place, much to the fright of the faithless and unbelieving, and finally the law was given. It all was a new revelation of God to these wayward people. It was another attempt of the Lord to save them, and he provided this new revelation as the means of doing so. Time went on. As the Israelites entered the promised land they pledged their allegiance to the Lord, and for a time kept his commandments. But again apostasy developed among them. Many were faithful, but many were not. Prophets arose among them, such as Elijah, Elisha, and Jeremiah, in the midst of apostasy, warning them of destruction if they would not repent. Captivity came to them as a result of their rebellion against God and his prophets, some of whom they killed, others they put in prison. Part of the apostasy was a changing of the law of the Lord in that day on the part of the learned among them. This led the people farther than ever from the Lord. Y the time of John the Baptist, they had drifted far, and he endeavored by his preaching to draw them back to the Lord. Again but few responded. When Jesus came he opened the dispensation of the meridian of time. As Paul expressed it: "God, GOSPEL RESTORATION who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in times past unto the fathers by the prophets, hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son." It was another new revelation of God, for Jesus, as Paul explained, was the "brightness of his [the Father's] glory, and the express image of his person." Truly the coming of Christ was a new revelation of God to the people of that day, and it was an effort of the Almighty to once again draw his people away from apostasy and sin, and back to the true work of God. Jesus preached throughout' Palestine for three years. 'Throngs followed him. At one time he fed five thousand, at another time four thousand. But apostasy took place even in his own day. Early in his ministry, as recorded in the sixth chapter of John, a great falling away took place, so great that he turned to the twelve and asked if they, too, would leave him. Then it was that Peter replied for the group and said, "Lord, to whom Shall we go? Thou hast the words of eternal life." When the arrest and crucifixion came, the Lord's few followers were scattered. Most of them fled. Even Peter denied him. A mere handful were present at the time of the resurrection, and when the day of Pentecost came, only 120 — of all the thousands who had followed him — assembled. Filled with the Holy Ghost, and with the power of the revelation of God which had been provided through the life and ministry, death and resurrection of the Savior, the 719 Twelve carried on the ministry against great odds. At last apostasy came again, led by bitter persecutions and encouraged by the Greek philosophers who confused the people in doctrine, by the sins of the people themselves, and the loss of divine authority in the clergy. This went from error to error, until there was great disputation and contention in the Church. Constantine tried to correct it, but failed. Finally, it was he who decided upon the mistaken notion of God which was handed down for years to come. When the Protestant reformation came, new churches were formed, new doctrines were advanced, and the apostasy grew. But the Lord loved his modern children as well as he had loved his ancient ones, and he determined to save them from the darkness of spiritual bondage. Again, there was only one way to pierce the gloom and to correct the false notions of God and religion so widespread among the people, and that was to give a new revelation of himself to man. There was much to do before the second coming of Christ. The way must be prepared. The true Church must be brought back among men, with the divine Priesthood to conduct its affairs. S the Lord raised up Moses for his day, and Abraham for his, so he raised up a new Prophet in modern times to begin his work. He prepared his mind and led him into spiritual paths. He inspired a little boy whom he had sent unto the earth with a great 720 mission. 'The boy was confused, as was his family, when they listened to the contending preachers of the day. They did not know which church was right. This boy, Joseph Smith, was guided by the Lord to read in James: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God." This Joseph determined to do. Going into the woods near his home, he knelt in humble prayer, asking for guidance. Which church should he join? In answer to his prayer, the Father and the Son, God the Eternal Father, and Jesus Christ the Savior, appeared to him there in western New York, and gave him direction. It was no dream. It was not even a vision in the usually accepted definition of the term. It Was a Great Reality. God came down from heaven and appeared here in the United States in modern times to a modern boy. So likewise did the Savior, Jesus Christ. It was as real as the appearance of God to Moses, and for the same purpose. It was a new revelation of God to man — given as a means of bringing salvation to those who would follow the Lord in sincerity and truth. As was the case in Moses' day, so in our day, this new revelation did not end with one appearance. It included setting up an organization through which God could do his work. As the Lord established his laws and practices and his Church organization in the days of Moses, as he did likewise in the days of Peter and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 Paul, so in our day this new revelation of God included setting up his Church on earth again. It was part of the great divine plan. This modern appearance of the Lord was not merely in answer to the prayer of a little boy seeking guidance. That prayer was the immediate act which God used to open his new and modern dispensation, fulfilling the predictions of the prophets of old. This dispensation is different from all previous dispensations which had been given to combat apostasy throughout the history of the world. It is different in that all others ended in one form of apostasy or another. This one will not end in apostasy. This new dispensation will continue on until the coming of Christ. The gospel will not be taken away from those who now are its custodians, nor will it be given to another people. It will remain on the earth and grow — even, as the prophet saw — until it fills the whole earth. This is the last dispensation, the last time because it is in the last days, preliminary to the coming of the Savior. The testimony of this dispensation is the same as all others before it — God lives, he is our Father; Jesus is the Christ; he is our Savior; his Church is upon the earth, and only through it can salvation come, "for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved.". == » Autumn Paaeant a. J - ~ Evelyn Fyjeldsted Yellow leaves are turning somersaults, Across the lawn and down the walk. Shadow silhouettes move listlessly, With the gentle rhythm of the wind. Like a stately ship at sea, The grey hawk aerials his course, With graceful might he disappears, Upon the waves of sun-streaked clouds. A banished little moon design — A dandelion too late — alone, Is hiding from the changing winds, A refugee of golden light. The chorus in the tree is gone. One small note drifts through the sleepy calm, A lonely sound and hesitant As a dry weed shaken by the wind. The reassurance of the hopes, Disclosed in autumn's pageant ways, Is challenging to unbelief, Although these witnesses are brief. The Joy of Working Caroline Eyring Miner "yD rather work at chemistry than eat. I really feel guilty about taking money for a job I love to do so well!" I have heard my famous scientist brother Henry make this statement many times. Fortunate indeed is the person who has found work to do that he loves. The greater part of our lives is spent in work, and if we have enthusiasm for it, and would rather do it than eat, we are going to live happy lives. The chances are also that we are going to live successful lives, for we do well the things we like to do. My father loved horses and cattle. To ride the range in the lush pasture land of Old Mexico, where the grass was tall and beautiful, was never work in any sense of burden to him. He loved horses and cared for them and rode until he was past eighty. Making cheese at the mountain ranch on the Tanejo River was a sheer delight. My mother's hands were never idle. She braided rag rugs, darned stockings, knitted lace, or did some useful work almost every minute of her so-called leisure hours. "Life is joy when your work is well done, so pitch in, sons," said an old poem I learned as a child. The world of work is an adventure, if our minds are set to make it so. 72I Calvin Smith; Lucile Dimond Smith, holding baby Wayne Smith; Mary Smith. Picture taken about thirty-five years ago.