[Vol49 | October 1962 | Sequence: 11 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Parker]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker]
oteV 
FROM  THE  FIELD 
General  Secretaiy-Treasurer  Hulda  Parker 
All  material  submitted  for  publication  in  this  department  should  be  sent  through 
stake  and  mission  Relief  Society  presidents.  See  regulations  governing  the  submittal  of 
material  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  in  the  Magazine  for  January  1958,  page  47,  and 
in  the  Relief  Society  Handbook  of  Instructions. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  ACTIVITIES 
Central  Atlantic  States  Mission,  Danville  (Virginia)  Branch 
Anniversary  Program,  March  17,  1962 
Left  to  right:  Elsie  Yarbrough,  President;  Myrtle  Morris;  Grace  Martin;  Pauline 
Walker;  Beulah  Doss;  Virginia  Hinton;  Ora  Garner;  Lucy  Lowe;  Ella  Rader;  Minnie 
Compton;  Hattie  Overstreet. 
Catharine  W.  Aposhian,  President,  Central  Atlantic  States  Relief  Society,  reports: 
''The  Relief  Society  of  the  Danville  Branch  had  a  special  program  on  March  17,  1962, 
in  honor  of  the  birthday  of  Relief  Society.  It  was  a  special  occasion  for  the  small 
branch,  with  a  larger  than  usual  number  in  attendance.  An  account  of  the  organiza- 
tion of  Relief  Society  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  given  by  Elsie  Yarbrough. 
Also  included  in  the  program  was  the  reading  of  some  beautiful  poetry  by  Pauline 
Walker.  There  were  also  some  special  musical  numbers.  The  color  scheme  of  blue 
and  gold,  Relief  Society  colors,  was  used  in  the  decorations  and  refreshments." 
762

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
763 
Weiser  Stake  (Idaho)  Singing  Mothers  Present  Music  for 
Weiser-Nyssa  Stake  Relief  Society  Convention 
April  24,   1962 
Seated  on  the  stand,  left  to  right:  Marion  Mathewson,  President,  Nyssa  Stake 
Relief  Society;  Irene  H.  Baxter,  President,  Weiser  Stake  Relief  Society;  Elder  Evern  O. 
Youngberg,  President,  Weiser  Stake;  Elder  Dehlin  A.  Erickson,  President,  Nyssa  Stake; 
Irene  B.  Woodford  and  Irene  C.  Lloyd,  of  the  General  Board  of  Relief  Society. 
Standing  at  the  left  of  the  chorus:  Pauline  Jensen,  chorister,  Weiser  Stake  Relief 
Society;  Jeanette  Thomock,  organist. 
Sevier  Stake  (Utah)  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  Present  Music 
for  Stake  Conference,  March    18,   1962 
Seated,  front  center,  in  dark  dress:  Betty  Erickson,  chorister;  Marilyn  Madsen, 
organist,  seated  at  the  right  of  Sister  Erickson. 
Madge  G.  Parks,  President,  Sevier  Stake  Rehef  Society,  reports:  "Our  stake  Sing- 
ing Mothers  chorus  numbered  ninety-four,  although  some  of  the  sisters  were  unable 
to  be  present  when  the  picture  was  taken.  This  group  is  newly  organized,  and  we 
were  proud  and  thrilled  at  their  performance  in  rendering  four  beautiful  songs,  which 
added  much  to  the  spirit  of  the  conference.  We  love  and  appreciate  these  sisters  for 
their  service.  Many  hours  were  spent  in  practice  in  preparation  for  stake  conference 
and  other  occasions.  Much  credit  goes  to  our  stake  chorister  and  organist  for  their 
untiring  efforts  in  bringing  this  group  together."