[Vol49 | October 1962 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Lesson | Title: Work | Author: Cutler]
WORK MEETING (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 4 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well Organized (Part IV) Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, January 1963 Objective: To show that decision-making is the heart of good management. Socio-drama will be the feature in this lesson. It is a dramatization which' gives the actors a chance to put themselves in the place of those facing a problem and allows them to feel, to behave, and to talk as they would were the problem their own. 'The audience has the advantage of seeing how different people act in various situations, of hearing what they would say, of reacting to the feelings expressed by the actors. Spontaneity and sincerity are the keynote. Actors are volunteers who are willing to try out how they would react in a given situation. Action and dialogue are unrehearsed. No lines are memorized. Each person plays her role, she says what she feels, and she acts as she feels the character would act under the circumstances. Neither scenery nor costumes are used. The leader describes the setting and the actors take the audience with them In imagination by pantomime and dialogue. The family problem to be acted out is making a decision about I whether Susan (the teenage daughter) should have money to buy a party dress and go on a date. After the cast of Relief Society sisters speaking as a father, mother, an eighteen-year-old son, a fifteen-yearold daughter, and a twelve-year-old son, has volunteered, the leader spends a few minutes with them to agree on the approach and solution to the problem. She then describes the setting to the audience and the play is on with each Relief Society deciding the outcome of the discussion. (In the interest of time, selection of participants and direction by class leader could be just prior to discussion period. (These participants should all be Relief Society sisters. ) A Latter-day Saint family is well organized to make decisions. 'The father, holding the Priesthood, the mother, whose responsibility is homemaking, and the children old enough to express ideas and opinions, form a decision-making team. Relatives or others living in the home may assist in making choices if requested to do so. Since decision-making is the heart of management, it is essential that great skill be developed in making wise choices. Training for decision-making begins in the cradle when a rattle is favored over a doll. As soon as the child knows the difference between 771 778 a penny and a nickel, he should be allowed to have a few pennies and nickels with which to make some choices. In the beginning, he will prefer an ice-cream cone today, rather than a toy at the end of the week. His span of interest is very short. By the time he is a scout, he should be able to look ahead in order to save money to buy his scout uniform instead of squandering his money on ice-cream cones. At an early age, he should be able to plan for some savings for his mission, instead of spending it all on clothing. And, later on, he will look forward to the training he needs for his lifetime work and grasp every opportunity to further that goal. He will not suffer from the impulse to buy any and everything he sees, but will be looking ahead to the time when he will be an owner of a home and the head of a household. In the same way, decisions are made about the use of time, the use of energy, and other resources. During the training period, there is a culling out of undesirable choices, and decisions become easier to make. Family members become more mature as they look into the future and make decisions today that will make a stronger tomorTOW. Training in decision-making pays off when small decisions can be made wisely by individual family members, and only major ones need be brought up for consideration by the family team. It is necessary to have an easy atmosphere for making decisions. 'They might be made around a table, where the facts of the case are brought out. There is RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 some pondering and weighing of alternate choices, and the best way is finally decided upon. Or there may be a regular time for the making of decisions, such as the family hour. Whatever the system, every family member should have an opportunity to bring up a problem for consideration, and there should be a full and frank examination of all the facts in the case. 'There should be a weighing of the merits of various choices and consideration given to the personal feelings of family members, A compromise might be the answer rather than a yes or no, but once the decision has been made, there is an obligation by members of the family to support that decision and carry it through. Decision-making is done with minds, not with hands; it is based largely on values that are held important and upon worthwhile goals. The experience of helping to make decisions develops faith, courage, and understanding — and most of all, the ability to think and act. These are the qualities which translate dead knowledge into living wisdom. 'They are what make our guesses turn out right. Questions for Discussion 1. If a person who has never been trained in decision-making, marries, what are some of the mistakes she is likely to make? 2. A young husband has a hobby of taking pictures. He spends considerable money for equipment without discussing it with his wife, and she feels the money could be better spent for the family. How can this problem be solved? 3. Review the essentials for good home management and report progress made in developing the attributes and _ skills needed. LITERATURE e America's Literature The New Birth of Freedom Lesson 36 — Oliver Wendell Holmes, Amiable Amateur Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 463-471) For Third Meeting, January 1963 Objective: To enrich our understanding and enjoyment of Holmes' wit and poetry by acknowledging the issues of his time which he represented. Holmes the Man Oliver Wendell Holmes was born near Harvard Yard in Cambridge in 1809, just 100 years after Dr. Samuel Johnson, his neo-classical ideal whom he revered so _ highly that he reread his works each year. His father, Abiel Holmes, was pastor of the First Church in Cambridge for thirty-seven years, and a prominent historian of Puritan New England. Although his father's rigidity and coldness contributed in large measure to Oliver's later repudiation of religious creed and the Calvinistic definition of man as a depraved animal, he never lost his belief in a benevolent Deity. His mother was a smiling, cheerful soul whose outlook was far removed, indeed, from that of her older husband. In 1840, Oliver married Amelia Lee Jackson, a woman with a fine mind and of unusual charm. After graduating from Harvard in his twentieth year he studied for the law, but to him, it was so dry and boring that for relief he wrote the poem "Old Ironsides" which aroused sufficient public indignation to save the American Revolutionary War frigate The Constitution from being destroyed. He studied medicine in Paris for two years just as vital medical discoveries were being made, and returned home after extensive touring in Europe to become the "whip which drove back the objectors and_allowed the modern scientific concept of medicine to gain entrance." Most abhorrent to the young doctor was the old idea that God caused sickness in corruptible men as punishment for their sins — sin itself being regarded as an inescapable mortal frailty resulting from Eve's yielding to temptation. The more Holmes studied science the more he found God's benevolent handiwork in men and nature. For him science was "piecemeal revelation" of God's truth. "There is no conflict between science and _ religion; science represents the thought of God discovered by man." For Holmes, God and nature could never be separated. When a wound healed "God's presence and power and knowledge are there healing it." Educated, intelligent, cultured Hi) 780 through travel and a proud and dominant family tradition, he was well aware of the great transitions his age must face. As a most beloved teacher at Harvard Medical School for thirty-five years, he exalted his faith in the scientific method and in the reality of that which is knowable through the senses, almost to the level of a religion. But as poet he played, dashing off witty puns in conversation and formal speeches, both rhymed and in prose, to amuse himself and his many warm friends. And, if in his Boston, the "statehouse is the hub of the solar system," then Boston's great public halls and the homes of his friends were the revolving planets which carried him sparkling through the brilliant social whirl which he loved and esteemed so highly. Each year from 1851 to 1889 he carefully wrote verses for the annual reunion of the Harvard class of '29 and he won several prizes for his publication of medical papers. He also wrote three "medicated" novels: Elsie Venner, The Guardian Angel, and A Mortal Antipathy, none of them distinguished. They were written to popularize his psychological and environmental theories. But as for his verse, he spoke truly when he wrote: I'm a florist in verse, and what would people say If I came to a banquet without my bouquet? The immediate nation-wide popularity of his "Autocrat of the Breakfast Table," first appearing as articles in the new Atlantic Monthly, intensified Holmes' local popuRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 A Perry Picture OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES larity as toastmaster and conversationalist. Socially and culturally he was dominated by Dr. Johnson's neoclassical values: gentlemanliness, order, balance, wit, quality, and breeding. Strongly — resembling Cooper, he felt himself merely exercising his democratic rights of choice when he said, "I go politically for equality... And socially for the quality." While he felt it might be all right to "admire a selfmade man whittled into shape with his own jackknife, other things being equal, I prefer a man of family." By "family" he meant "those who had pluck and audacious self-esteem, with good grounds for it.' And "good grounds" were produced by the environment familiar to Boston's wealthy class: high society, distinguished ancestry, family portraits, a library, silver, and a tme residence. He loved these rewards of financial and social success. In summary, his Boston, LESSON DEPARTMENT with art, music, literature, education, good talk, and comfortable traditions, he loved; the new Boston, with immigrant Italians and Irish laborers, he could never understand. Professor Holmes Dr. Holmes gave the name anesthesia to the loss of consciousness induced by drugs, as used for the first time by Dr. Morton in 1846 at the Boston General Hospital. Holmes is also generally credited with proving, in his medical writings on puerperal or childbed fever, that the disease is contagious, and is transmitted by doctors and facilities im unsanitary hospitals throughout the world. His true love in medicine, however, was the teaching of human anatomy for more than thirty-five years to Harvard medical students. Possibly the best-loved teacher Harvard ever had, Dr. Holines began lecturing at the last hour of the day to three hundred weary, semi-asphyxiated students! Even in the late afternoon, his entrance into the classroom was greeted with much applause. His lectures were illuminated by vivid description, apt comparisons, and anecdotes to illustrate the salient points of his lectures. His poetic imagination created a brilliant glow that enlivened the factual material which he presented. Yet he was precise and authentic in all his statements, exemplifying a complete mastery of imagery as well as acCuracy in describing minute details. All the virtues claimed for Holmes by his former students are exemplified in his method of ex- 781 plaining the constituents of the body: clear, organized, vibrant with words which enhance rather than blur his main purpose. Following are the opening lines of a lecture on anatomy: Take one of these boiled eggs, which has been ravished from a_ brilliant possible future, and instead of sacrificing it to a common appetite, devote it to the nobler hunger for knowledge ("Pages From an Old Volume of Life," Holme's Works, Vol. III, page 187). Holmes' Writings Save for his early crusading burst of indignation "Old Ironsides," Holmes wrote solely in a_ gentle satiric vein for the pleasure it gave to himself and others. So successful was he that his amiable contribution to our culture will never be forgotten. But great literature grows only out of sustained moral earnestness, the noble quality so richly abundant in the New England tradition as in his son Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., one of the greatest jurists and liberals the United States has produced. In his own life, with insignificant exceptions, Holmes reserved his moral intensity for his professional scientific pursuits. Here lay what he felt to be his true challenge; here therefore he placed the full weight of his mature mind. In writing The Autocrat of the Breakfast-Table followed by The Professor at the Breakfast-Table and The Poet at the BreakfastTable, Holmes used the plan of rambling monologue touching on any topic that came to his mind. This literary form was admirably adapted to his temperament and powers. By combining the tech- 782 niques of prose-fiction, essay, drama, poetry, and light verse, he was able to sketch character, present his favorite ideas, tell stories, satirize stupidity, and praise Boston, at the same time remaining warm and kind. It is in this series of writings that we find some of his best-known humorous and serious poetry. Both as "autocrat" and as poet, Holmes wrote for the large family party which was Boston society — he named them the Brahmins, or untouchables, and was proud to be included in his own definition. Passionately he loved them; cleverly he entertained them, using most frequently in his verse the neoclassical tool of satire. First he satirizes all reformers and idealists, particularly the Miullerites who had long predicted that the millennium would be ushered in during 1875. In the poem "LatterDay Warnings" he depicts mortal foibles still to be overcome. (See text, page 465.) LATTER-DAY WARNINGS When legislators keep the law, When banks dispense with bolts and locks, When berries — whortle, rasp, and straw— Grow bigger downwards through the box. When one that hath a horse on sale Shall bring his merit to the proof, Without a lie for every nail That holds the iron on the hoof, — When in the usual place for rips Our gloves are stitched with special care, And guarded well the whalebone tips Where first umbrellas need repair. Till then let Cumming blaze away, And Miller's saints blow up the globe; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 But when you see that blessed day, Then order your ascension robe! The "One-Hoss-Shay," which satirizes the rotting away of the oldtime Calvinism which Holmes spent his life opposing, is so filled with delight-in-words and boyish pranks that it is difficult to believe that he is at all serious. (See text, pp. 468- 469.) Holmes is aware of fair play, for he satirizes himself, too, or at least his vast enjoyment of what we now call "creature comforts." His "Contentment" (text, page 470) lists his minimum essentials: a_ plain brownstone mansion, a three-course dinner rather than ten, topped with vanilla-ice. As for titles, he can squeeze by with two simple ones: Governor and Ambassador. Books? Fifty, bound in red morocco, while a span of easy-gaited horses, rather than fast, showy pacers, will fill his need.... I care not much for gold or land; — Give me a mortgage here and there, — Some good bank-stock, — some note of hand, Or trifling railroad share; — I only ask that Fortune send A little more than I shall spend. Jewels are baubles; 'tis a sin To care for such unfruitful things; — One good-sized diamond in a pin, — Some, not so large, in rings, — A ruby and a pearl, or so, Will do for me; — I laugh at show. Among other well-remembered poems written by Holmes are "Dorothy QO," "The Organ Blower," "The Last Leaf," and, for sheer amusement, "Aunt Tabitha," "The Height of the Ridiculous," and "The Stethoscope Song." But it is in "The Living Temple" which he LESSON DEPARTMENT wrote aS vigorous protest against Puritanical attitude toward the body as a corrupt vessel, as well as in "The Chambered Nautilus" that Holmes most nearly approaches greatness. THE LIVING TEMPLE* Not in the world of light alone, here God has built his blazing throne, Nor yet alone in earth below, With belted seas that come and go, And endless isles of sunlit green, Is all thy Maker's glory seen: Look in upon the wondrous frame, — Eternal wisdom still the same! The smooth, soft air with pulse-hke waves Flows murmuring through its hidden caves, Whose streams of brightening purple rush Fired with a new and livelier blush, While all their burden of decay The ebbing current steals away, And red with Nature's flame they start From the warm fountains of the heart. No rest that throbbing slave may ask, Forever quivering o'er his task, While far and wide a crimson jet Leaps forth to fill the woven net Which in unnumbered crossing tides The flood of burning life divides, Then, kindling each decaying part, Creeps back to find the throbbing heart. See how yon beam of seeming white Is braided out of seven-hued light, Yet in those lucid globes no ray By any chance shall break astray. Hark how the rolling surge of sound, Arches and spirals circling round, Wakes the hushed spirit through thine ear With music it is heaven to hear. Then mark the cloven sphere that holds All thought in its mysterious folds; That feels sensation's faintest thrill, And flashes forth the sovereign will; Think on the stormy world that dwells Locked. In its dim and clustering cells! The lightning gleams of power it sheds Along its hollow glassy threads! 783 O Father! Grant thy love divine To make these mystic temples thine! When wasting age and wearying strife Have sapped the leaning walls of life, When darkness gathers over all, And the last tottering pillars fall, Take the poor dust thy mercy warms, And mold it into heavenly forms- — The Poetical Works of Oliver Wendell Holmes, (Vol. I, pp. 252-254). (*Note this word picture of his aesthetic interpretation of the human body, as each verse elucidates a part of it, 1..: verse 1, the body whole; verse 2, lungs and circulation; verse 3, heart; verse 4, eyes and ears; verse 5, brain.) Similar to "The Living Temple," "The Chambered Nautilus" concludes in spiritual hope and _ nobleness. (See text, pp. 466-467. ) THE CHAMBERED NAUTILUS This is the ship of pearl, which, poets feign, Sails the unshadowed main, — The venturous bark that flings On the sweet summer wind its purpled wings In gulfs enchanted, where the siren sings, And coral reefs lie bare, Where the cold sea-maids rise to sun their streaming hair. Its webs of living gauze no more unfurl; Wrecked is the ship of pear!! And every chambered cell, Where its dim dreaming life was wont to dwell, As the frail tenant shaped his growing shell, Before thee lies revealed, — Its irised ceiling rent, its sunless crypt unsealed! Year after year beheld the silent toil That spread his lustrous coil; Still, as the spiral grew, IIe left the past year's dwelling for the new, Stole with soft step its shining archway through, Built up its idle door, 784 Stretched in his last-found home, and knew the old no more. Thanks for the heavenly message brought by thee, Child of the wandering sea, Cast from her lap, forlorn! From thy dead lips a clearer note is born Than ever Triton blew front wreathed horn! While on mine ear it rings, Through the deep caves of thought I hear a voice that sings: — Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul, As the swift seasons roll! Leave thy low-vaulted past! Let each new temple, nobler than the last, Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast, Till thou at length art free, Leaving thine outgrown shell by life's unresting sea! A versatile, alert, man-about-town Bostonian, Oliver Wendell Holmes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 exhibits narrowness and_ prejudices which amply prove his humanity and mortality. Like Lowell, Holmes, for every reason was destined for greatness, yet he avoided it successfully. But nothing conceals his zest for learning, quality, culture, and literary excellence, whether it be to embody his observations on his contemporary world, to chide the local mutual admiration societies for taking themselves too seriously, or to share his faiths and fears in his city's future. He lived richly and well. For his wit, sparkle, and wisdom we are again his debtors. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Discuss Holmes' basic beliefs, both in science and religion. 2. Has this lesson increased your appreciation for Holmes as a man; as a writer; as a teacher; as a man of versatile abilities? If so, why? I SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Foundation of Church Government Lesson 3 — Divine Law and Human Welfare (Continued) Elder Ariel S. Ballit For Fourth Meeting, January 1963 Objective: To establish the importance of system and order in Church government. [NX the preceding lesson, it was noted that divine law provides the direction by which man can develop his full talents, realize the purpose of his creation, and, at the same time, receive the fulness of joy in living. This combination can only be accomplished by man's LESSON DEPARTMENT exercise of his free agency. Choice, not force, is the important principle. President McKay says that, "Next to the bestowal of life itself, the right to direct that life is God's greatest gift to man" (Improvement Era, February 1962, page 86). In the present lesson consideration is given to system and order in the design of the Lord as it refers to human welfare. God is exacting in his dealings with man. "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated" (D & C 130:20-21). God deals in truths that are unfailing. 'This is evident in the order of the universe and the regularity of the physical laws governing the earth and life upon it. "Mine House Is a House of Order' "Behold, mine house is a house of order, saith the Lord God, and not a house of confusion. Will I accept of an offering, saith the Lord, that is not made in my name?