[Vol49 | October 1962 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Fiction | Title: Dorthea]
Dorthea Strom Knits Sweaters For Missionaries has many talents, but she js most knitting sweaters. She has made many of the handwork crafts an expert in other handicraft, pillows, quilting, and making nd teaches other women her beloved among her associates and rememes she has served and befriended. General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field' in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Central Atlantic States Mission, Danville (Virginia) Branch Anniversary Program, March 17, 1962 Left to right: Elsie Yarbrough, President; Myrtle Morris; Grace Martin; Pauline Walker; Beulah Doss; Virginia Hinton; Ora Garner; Lucy Lowe; Ella Rader; Minnie Compton; Hattie Overstreet. Catharine W. Aposhian, President, Central Atlantic States Relief Society, reports: "The Relief Society of the Danville Branch had a special program on March 17, 1962, in honor of the birthday of Relief Society. It was a special occasion for the small branch, with a larger than usual number in attendance. An account of the organization of Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith was given by Elsie Yarbrough. Also included in the program was the reading of some beautiful poetry by Pauline Walker. There were also some special musical numbers. The color scheme of blue and gold, Relief Society colors, was used in the decorations and refreshments." 762 NOTES FROM THe FIELD 763 Weiser Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present Music for Weiser-Nyssa Stake Relief Society Convention April 24, 1962 Seated on the stand, left to right: Marion Mathewson, President, Nyssa Stake Relief Society; Irene H. Baxter, President, Weiser Stake Relief Society; Elder Evern O. Youngberg, President, Weiser Stake; Elder Dehlin A. Erickson, President, Nyssa Stake; Irene B. Woodford and Irene C. Lloyd, of the General Board of Relief Society. Standing at the left of the chorus: Pauline Jensen, chorister, Weiser Stake Relief Society; Jeanette Thornock, organist. Sevier Stake (Utah) Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music 190 for Stake Conference, March 18, 1962 Seated, front center, in dark dress: Betty Erickson, chorister; Marilyn Madsen, organist, seated at the right of Sister Erickson. Madge G. Parks, President, Sevier Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our stake Singing Mothers chorus numbered ninety-four, although some of the sisters were unable to be present when the picture was taken. This group is newly organized, and we were proud and thrilled at their performance in rendering four beautiful songs, which added much to the spirit of the conference. We love and appreciate these sisters for their service. Many hours were spent in practice in preparation for stake conference and other occasions. Much credit goes to our stake chorister and organist for their untiring efforts in bringing this group together." I I I 164 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 St. George Stake (Utah), St. George Second Ward Relief Society Presidents Honored at Birthday Social, March 1962 Front row, seated left to right: Rosilla B. Porter; Paula Mathis; Hazel Bradshaw; Zetta W. Stucki; Hannah Wells. Back row, standing left to right: Marie Booth; Louise Englestead; Barbara Hunt; Bertha Weaver; Nola Jones. Violet C. Esplin, President, St. George Stake Relief Society, reports: 'All ten Relief Society presidents of St. George Second Ward attended the social, representing thirty years of service. ''o commemorate these years of service, a skit written b Cleo Gentry, pointed up special and amusing incidents in the work of each of the former presidents. Each sister was given an appropriate gift in commemoration of her services." New Orleans Stake (Louisiana) Honors Visiting Teachers at Social January 15, 1962 Seated, left to right, honored visiting teachers: Grace Nicol; Mary Brian; Anna Westbrook; Iris James; Myrtle Bankston; Lena Brian; Lula Smith; Irene Crawford. Standing, left to mght: Gloria Phillips, stake Magazine representative; Mollie Brady, stake Secretary-Treasurer; Cleora Williams, stake Second Counselor; Lea Larson, stake President; Florence Chapman, Stake First Counselor; Fern Wakefield, garment representative; Dolores Brian, stake visiting teacher message leader; Mary Nelson, stake literature leader; Joyce Grigg, stake chorister. Sister Larson reports: '"'A social honoring all visiting teachers in New Orleans Stake was held in the Baton Rouge Ward Chapel. 'This area covers most of the southern half of Louisiana. Visiting teachers with over fifteen years of service were presented corsages which had all been handmade by Second Counselor Cleora Williams. Record cold weather conditions throughout the State failed to daunt seventy-two sisters from attending this social, the first of its kind since the stake was organized in 1955. A luncheon, featuring seafood gumbo, was served, and the theme 'messengers of love and service' was carried out in the table decorations, as well as in the program which followed the luncheon. It was a rewarding day for all attending." East Long Beach Stake (California) Inter-Faith Social May 25. 1962 At the right: Gladys Phillips, theology class leader. Melva Orgill, President, East Long Beach Stake Relief Society, reports: "A very lovely inter-faith social was held May 25, 1962. A program designed to explain the history, purposes, and activities of Relief Society through words and music, was well accepted by those in attendance. The adjoining hall was then opened to allow the group to view closely and leisurely demonstrations and displays of all phases of the Relief Society program: the educational program, the homemaking program, the recreational program, the Welfare program, and other activities. Light refreshments were served, as well as samples of bread, candies, relishes, and other foods distributed from the demonstrations. This social was felt to be a most successful activity, with many women joining their hands and hearts to show nonmember friends the greatness of Relief Society. The picture represents the theology display." — -_ 11% SBS ea am < ain! 'wp aware, ee wee & ae — mgs ve neat ban vin ton ater 088 SE gots ph ye gee ae s Ate we eax be te 2% 24 % is. * Bs "3: Hite Fiare ' alla nae ian kp, Wa "s; a A RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 767 South Carolina Stake Relief Society Celebrates the Anniversary of Relief Society, March 17, 1962 Left to mnght: stake board members Fannie Thornton, Sylvia Bass, Carolyn Hurren, Bernice Kneece and Alice Voyles; Lottie P. Joyner, First Counselor, South Carolina Stake Relief Society; Elder Benjamin W. Wilkerson, President, South Carolina Stake; Harriet W. Capps, President, South Carolina Stake Relief Society; Malcolm B. Fagan, Second Counselor; Nellie Opie, Melba Ross, Donna Jensen; Geraldine D. Petty, Secretary-T reasurer. Sister Capps reports: "The South Carolina Stake Relief Society celebrated the 120th birthday of Relief Society on March 17, 1962. Refreshments were served before leadership meeting began. Members of the stake board were attired in costumes, similar to those worn by the sisters of the first Relief Society in 1842." Palmyra Stake (Utah), Spanish Fork Sixth Ward Relief Society Presents "The Relief Society Memory Book," March 20, 1962 Left side, seated, left to mght: Ann Leek, as Emma Smith; Effie Sorensen, as Clarissa Williams; May Christopherson, as Emmeline B. Wells. Left side, standing, left to right: Edith Ludlow, as Eliza R. Snow; Flora Belle Davis, as Zina D. H. Young; Delores Nelson, ward chorister; Luana Clark, ward organist; Vera Jenkins, as Bathsheba W. Smith. I Right side, seated, left to night: Jennie Dart, as Amy Brown Lyman; Lula Hermenson, as Belle S. Spafford; Dora Stewart, as Louise Y. Robison. Right side, standing, left to mght: Kay Lowe, director; Helen Olsen, narrator; Zelma Hair, President, Sixth Ward Relief Society; Blanche Bradford, First Counselor; Emma Hancock, Second Counselor; Ruth Hancock, Secretary-Treasurer. Bernice S. Swenson, President, Palmyra Stake Relief Society, reports: 'This was one of the best and most exciting Seventeenth of March affairs we have ever had. To see so many of the older women participating and happy over the event was a great thrill to us, and we sincerely feel that there is no better way to learn of the lives of great women in our Church and in Relief Society, and to enjoy each other's association, than by accomplishing such a presentation. The nine general presidents of Relief Society were represented in an oval opening of the album. Special tributes were given to the Sixth Ward Relief Society presidency. The play was written by Virginia D. Clark, with revision and additions by Marianne C. Sharp and Alberta H. Christensen, and directed by Kay Lowe. Small portraits of each president were placed in silver frames and given to each sister present." South Davis Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions Stake Relief Society President Ilene S. Bagley stands first on the right in the second row, as a member of the chorus. Standing in front: Blanche J. Ellis, Education Counselor, who was the author of the continuity and one of the narrators for the May 4th concert; Maurine M. Haycock, Work Director Counselor, who acted as publicity chairman for the concert; Gladys C. Van de Merwe, narrator; Mona M. Jensen, stake chorister; Inez C. Tanner, stake Organist, seated at the piano. Sister Bagley reports: "The South Davis Stake Singing Mothers chorus of sixty voices began rehearsing in February 1962, in preparation for stake conference, which was held in March, and for a concert held on May 4th, as well as for the two-stake Relief Society convention held in conjunction with Bountiful South Stake. Twelve numbers were learned by the group and artfully presented on these occasions. The concert was the musical highlight of the year in the stake. It is hoped that this will become an annual affair. Each of the stake board members was given an individual assignment concerning the concert, and all were co-partners in its success." 768 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 Seattle Stake (Washington) Singing Mothers Present Music for Many Occasions Front row, left to right: Stake Relief Society President Phyllis Unbedacht; Ella Glick, organist; six ward choristers who assisted in training the Singing Mothers; Jacquelin Holt, stake chorister; Grace Collette and Cemoria Frankman, Counselors, Seattle Stake Relief Society. Sister Unbedacht reports: "We are having a fine year for our stake Singing Mothers, who sang for our visiting teachers convention on February 7th; our Relief Society convention on May 11th; for the morning session of stake conference on May 20th; and on May 3ist presented a concert at the stake center for the member. Ship and their friends. The bishops of the wards have also been using the ward groups in their meetings. We are indeed grateful for having these experiences." EES Glendale Stake (California) Inter-Faith Social April 27, 1962 Left to right: Leah F randsen, Education Counselor, Glendale Stake Relief Society; Mae Warrington of the First Congressional Church; Florence Dalton, Work Director Counselor, Glendale Stake Relief Society; Jesse M. Koeslen, First Methodist Church; Ellen Werisk, First Covenant Church; Edna Beal, President, Glendale Stake Relief Society; Mrs. Simonds, First Lutheran Church. Sister Beal reports: "We felt very happy with the outcome of our inter-faith social. We had some 350 women in attendance of whom 250 were women of other faiths. Nineteen different faiths were represented We felt that this social was a great missionary help. We also had Priesthood members in attendance to answer questions." THEOLOGY e The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 44 — Rewards of Keeping the Commandments Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 59:15-24) For First Meeting, January 1963 Objective: To learn the promises of the Lord for the faithful who keep his command. Ments. Introduction N last month's lesson we learned that on the day the Prophet Joseph Smith attended the funeral of Polly Knight, the Lord gave a most important revelation for the comfort of the saints. It was a message of hope concerning the future life where the deceased continue to find joy in activity. The saints also learned that they would be blessed with commandments received by revelation through the Prophet. One Of these commandments was the proper observance of the Lord's day of rest. Eight positive requirements of Sabbath day observance were enumerated in the lesson. An official statement by the First Presidency was also given concerning violation of the Sabbath. (Lesson 43, Relief Society Magazine, September 1962.) "Inasmuch As Ye Do These Things With Thanksgiving" If we follow the commandment concerning the Sabbath day and are faithful in keeping the other commandments, our harvest will be rich. But what is expected of the member as he obeys God's will? Gratitude, yes, as we learned from verse 7 of Section 59. Then what? As a member follows the commandments in keeping the Sabbath day holy, joy is received, and rich blessings are promised. (SeeD & C 59:15-19.) Keeping the commandments brings the favor of heaven. In the foregoing verses there is stated the purpose for which the things of the earth — food, clothing, and shelter — are provided, to strengthen one physically and spiritually. Implicit in these verses is the same thought expressed in an earlier revelation. All Jaws and commandments thought of as temporal are spiritual. (Ibid., 29:34-35.) The important fact is that the bounties of the earth are for all men 769 770 (Ibid., 49:19), but not in excess. An equitable distribution of the products of the earth is the ideal. Those who receive more of these materials are not only to use judgment in their use, but also to see that advantage is not taken of their fellow men. And it pleaseth God that he hath given all these things unto man; for unto this end were they made to be used, with judgment, not to excess, neither by extortion (Ibid., 59:20). Moderation and honesty are to guide man's use of God's creations provided for man's sojourn on the earth. Riches are to be used for the benefit of man. (Ibid., 49:20; Jacob 2:18-19.) President David O. McKay has emphasized that life should not be centered on wealth. (Gospel Ideals, page 393.) President Heber J. Grant has pointed out that riches in themselves may be blessings if used in the way the Lord intended. (Gospel Standards, page 108. ) Man's Offenses God's wrath is kindled against those who disregard his commandments when they know his will. His wrath or anger will be demonstrated at his coming in power to the world. (D & C 1:9-10.) The wicked will feel his wrath because they have brought his displeasure upon themselves due to violation of law. (Ibid., 124:48.) 'The demands of justice will be met by all those who remain unrepentant. (3 Nephi 28:34-35.) When the Lord stated the temporal blessings received by the faithful who obey the Sabbath, he expressed a truth which emphasizes RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 the necessity of man's full acceptance of God's sovereignty and his dependence upon the Creator. It is: And in nothing doth man offend God, or against none is his wrath kindled, save those who confess not his hand in all things, and obey not his commandments (D & C 59:21). Is man to acknowledge the earth and the things of the earth for his benefit as coming from the Father in heaven? President Joseph F. Smith taught that man _ should acknowledge all truth from God. (Gospel Doctrine, gth edition, pp. 5-6.) For one who has felt the divine goodness of God, as did King Benjamin the Nephite, of the Book of Mormon, the answer must be yes. He labored to serve his subjects, for which they expressed gratitude. Using this as an opportunity to show wherein the Nephites were to thank their heavenly King, he said that if men should serve God with all their hearts, they would still be unprofitable servants. (Mosiah 2:20-21.) To acknowledge the Lord as the Creator who has given man life and provided the bounties of the earth for his benefit does not seem to be for many a part of present-day belief and practice. We should as Latter-day Saints learn a lesson from the Nephites. When the bounteous blessings of the earth are received, we are to be stewards over them, realizing that they are given to us by the Lord. A lesson that we should learn is that pride was the downfall of the Nephite nation. (Ibid., 38:39.) Obey His Commandments The Nephites were given specific LESSON DEPARTMENT promises that if they did keep the commandments they would prosper in the land. (I Nephi 4:14; 2 Nephi 1:20; 3 Nephi 5:22.) This same promise is given to the saints of the latter days. (2 Nephi 10:19; D& C 10:49-51.) Although one acknowledges the hand of the Lord in the blessings of life, he is still not completely acceptable to God unless he keeps his commandments. The keeping of the commandments is based upon faith in the Lord Jesus as the Savior and Redeemer. The strength of one's motivation to keep the commandments is determined, in large measure, by his attitude toward the Savior and the Father. Are we dependent upon them for life, for the opportunity to use earth's resources as stewards? Do we genuinely believe that we should give thanks to the Lord for these blessings? Is there a direct relationship between one's keeping the commandments and one's temporal and Spiritual welfare? According to the prophets, as shown above, those who do not show their gratitude by keeping the commandments offend God and against them his wrath is kindled. (D & C 59:21.) The time will come when all men will confess that God is sovereign, and they will acknowledge him as the Giver of life with its opportunities for proving oneself a true disciple. A Great Truth One of the outstanding truths given in sacred literature concludes Section 59. That all believers might know the pathway to successful living, the Lord revealed: But learn that he who doeth the works of righteousness shall receive his reward, 77 even peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come. I, the Lord, have spoken it, and the Spirit beareth record. Amen (D & C 59:23-24). This truth expresses the most important promise the Father can give to any of his children. The greatest measure of salvation attainable is eternal life. When one thinks of rewards as blessings from the Father, one should remember that the Lord favors those who keep his commandments. (I Nephi 17:35.) Specifying "Works of Righteousness" What are the works of righteousness required of one to receive the rewards mentioned in the text quoted above (D & C 59:23)? One might summarize the answer by saying, "Keep the commandments!" But we don't always gain our objective by such a general statement. When the prophets by inspiration tell the people that they should keep the commandments, it is assumed that the saints are acquainted with the commandments. Not all of us are sufficient readers of the scriptures and the works of the living prophets to have specific knowledge of the Lord's will. It seems necessary, therefore, that we speak with some detail about the works of righteousness. Perhaps this restatement may serve as a review for many, and to others it may bring a greater understanding. For all it should be an opportunity for taking inventory of one's own status before God. Appropriate to this thought is the admonition that the member of the Church should 772 learn his duty in all diligence. (Ibid., 107:99. ) Without considering the following suggestions of works of righteousness as complete or of their importance in the order in which they are given, let us consider some significant items. Seeking Perfection One of the first steps toward righteousness in the sight of the Lord is to accept baptism in his kingdom. (Matt. 3:15; 2 Ne. 31:5-10.) Having taken this step, an important work of righteousness for the member of the Church would be to continually have in mind the objective of life; that is, to strive for perfection. (Matt. 5:48; 3 Ne. 12:48.) 'The genuine desire for perfection suggests that the member will rid himself of all ungodliness. (Moroni 10:32.) The most successful method of accomplishing this goal is to love the Lord with all one's heart, might, mind, and strength. (D & C 59:5.) Develop a love for Christ that "worketh by faith." Such love will engender the same emotion toward all men, but, intrinsically, it must come in the realization of one's dependence upon Christ for all things, for what he has done in behalf of the individual through his redeeming sacrifice. (2 Ne. 31:18-20.) A second great step toward righteousness is to help perfect the lives of the members. In the process of working out one's salvation, interest in others is a necessary part. Instructing others in the gospel contributes to perfecting the life of the teacher as well as of the person taught. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 Missionary Work — Righteousness What other responsibilities come to a member of the Church in his acceptance of Christ? If one answers this question in terms of the purposes of the Church, the missionary program stands out foremost. The individual member has the responsibility, a work of righteousness, to teach the gospel. If this is not performed, the salvation of our fellow men is upon our heads. (D & C 88:81-82.) In addition to the formal missionary program to which one may be called, there are other opportunities for the member. Referring names of non-member friends to stake and foreign missionaries, as well as discussing the gospel with nonmembers is one way. The keeping of a missionary in the field or contributing with others to the maintenance of a missionary is another way. By teaching the gospel in the auxiliary organizations of the Church, one may have an opportunity to perform missionary service. If the teacher, however, is to make a "convert" his attitude must be that of the missionary. Elder Mark E. Petersen has pointed out the need for conversion of members of the Church, as follows: Conversion is all-important in the classroom. Each member of the Church must be thoroughly converted. But conversion is dependent on good teaching, and good teaching must include good doctrine. Good doctrine may be found in the official sources of the Church, and from such sources we should obtain it. Conversion is so important to the whole future life of an individual that all care must be taken to have him converted to correct doctrine and practice and not to mistaken views of some persons, no matter how sincere (Your Faith and You, page 40). LESSON DEPARTMENT Labor for the Dead The responsibility of the Church to provide the facilities for the members to discharge their own responsibility to their kindred dead, is a work of righteousness. 'This activity is one of the most direct ways to participate in the salvation of others. One may be a "savior" of the living, but he may also become the "savior" of countless dead. This work of righteousness includes the genealogical research as well as temple service, where possible. Service to Others Every principle of the gospel lived, every Church activity engaged in, serves as an example for others. This kina of service cannot be overemphasized, for "when ye are in the service of your fellow beings ye are only in the service of your God" (Mosiah 2:17). One provides for continued works of righteousness through the Church organization by contributions of material means in the form of tithing, fast offerings, ward or branch budget, building fund, and other assessments. In a practical sense, if there is a work of righteousness that contributes to the service of others, it is the giving of one's own self in terms of such contributions. Participation in worthy Church projects for the advancement of others, such as Welfare projects by the Priesthood members and _ the Relief Society members stands high among the works of righteousness. This is the organizational way that a member may, in part, retain a remission of his sins from day to day — by imparting of his substance to the needy. (Mosiah 4:26-27.) 773 Obey Leadership With the Church as the divine institution through which the foregoing purposes for man may be realized, it is evident that full confidence is to be shown in the counsel given by those who preside over us. Continuous revelation is_received that the member may reach perfection by obedience to the Lord's will through his servants. There is salvation in no other way. Fveryday Religion The works of righteousness are to be shown forth on all days and not only on the Sabbath. (D & C 59:11.) In the words of President Joseph F. Smith, we learn:.. For I want to tell you that the religion of Christ is not a Sunday rehgion; it is not a momentary religion; it is a religion that never ends; and _ it requires duties of its devotees on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and all of the days of the week just as sincerely, just as strongly, as it does on the Sabbath day (Gospel Doctrine, gth edition, page 394). Rewards of Righteousness The first reward of righteousness given in our text (D & C 59:23) is peace in this world. Certainly this peace does not mean that war will end before the second coming of Christ. (Ibid., 1:35; 87:6; 97:22- 23.) Peace as a reward to the righteous may be enjoyed always regardless of the turmoil, strife, and tribulations in the world. It is a peace of mind, a sense of security, a settled conviction, a joy to the soul, which comes only through the Holy Ghost because works of righteousness have and are being performed. (Smiru, Joseru F.: 774 Gospel Doctrine, gth edition, pp 126-127; Lesson 38, Relief Society Magazine, December 1961.) Isaiah expressed it as a "quietness and assurance forever" (Isaiah 32:17). The second reward of righteousness and the greatest gift to be conferred by the Father upon his children is eternal life. (D & C 14:7.) The quality of living forever is possessed by the eternal spirit of man, but to live forever as a soul, that is, with the spirit and body united, through the resurrection, is known as immortality. (Ibid 88:14- 16.) Immortality is received by all of the earth's inhabitants, but eternal life is reserved for those who become like God. (Ibid., 29:43; Moses 1:39.) Eternal life or exaltation is to live in God's presence, to become like him, with the powers of spirit procreation. (Ibid., 132:15-17, 19-22.) What greater blessings may one have than the assurance of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1962 well-being in this life and eternal life in the world to come? The text for this lesson comes from the revelation on the Sabbath day. Rewards for Sabbath observance are numerous, but these blessings come not because of Sabbathkeeping alone but also by keeping the other commandments. 'Thus, the Lord declared that his people I are to acknowledge his hand in all things and to keep the commandments, and the rewards will be peace of mind in this world and eternal life in the world to come. Questions for Discussion 1. Is acknowledging the hand of the Lord in all things sufficient to bring forth his blessings? 2. Discuss: One must love Jesus Christ with all his heart to win exaltation. 3. How may one give of himself in being of service to others? 4. Discuss: What are some _ rewards of keeping the commandments of God?