[Vol49 | October 1962 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social]
[Social Science — Divine Law and Human Welfare (Continued) Ariel S. BalUf 784]
Presidents  Honored  at  Birthday  Social,  March   1962 
Front  row,  seated  left  to  right:  Rosilla  B.  Porter;  Paula  Mathis;  Hazel  Bradshaw; 
Zetta  W.  Stucki;  Hannah  Wells. 
Back  row,  standing  left  to  right:  Marie  Booth;  Louise  Englestead;  Barbara  Hunt; 
Bertha  Weaver;  Nola  Jones. 
Violet  C.  Esplin,  President,  St.  George  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports:  "All  ten 
Relief  Society  presidents  of  St.  George  Second  Ward  attended  the  social,  represent- 
ing thirty  years  of  service.  To  commemorate  these  years  of  service,  a  skit  written  by 
Cleo  Gentry,  pointed  up  special  and  amusing  incidents  in  the  work  of  each  of  the 
former  presidents.  Each  sister  was  given  an  appropriate  gift  in  commemoration  of 
her  services." 
New  Orleans  Stake  (Louisiana)  Honors  Visiting  Teachers  at  Social 
January  15,  1962 
Seated,  left  to  right,  honored  visiting  teachers:  Grace  Nicol;  Mary  Brian;  Anna 
Westbrook;  Iris  James;  Myrtle  Bankston;  Lena  Brian;  Lula  Smith;  Irene  Crawford. 
Standing,  left  to  right:  Gloria  Phillips,  stake  Magazine  representative;  MoHie 
Brady,  stake  Secretary-Treasurer;  Cleora  Williams,  stake  Second  Counselor;  Lea  Larson, 
stake  President;  Florence  Chapman,  Stake  First  Counselor;  Fern  Wakefield,  garment 
representative;  Dolores  Brian,  stake  visiting  teacher  message  leader;  Mary  Nelson,  stake 
literature  leader;  Joyce  Grigg,  stake  chorister. 
Sister  Larson  reports:  "A  social  honoring  all  visiting  teachers  in  New  Orleans 
Stake  was  held  in  the  Baton  Rouge  Ward  Chapel.  This  area  covers  most  of  the 
southern  half  of  Louisiana.  Visiting  teachers  with  over  fifteen  years  of  service  were 
presented  corsages  which  had  all  been  handmade  by  Second  Counselor  Cleora  Williams. 
Record  cold  weather  conditions  throughout  the  State  failed  to  daunt  seventy-two  sisters 
from  attending  this  social,  the  first  of  its  kind  since  the  stake  was  organized  in  1955. 
A  luncheon,  featuring  seafood  gumbo,  was  served,  and  the  theme  'messengers  of  love 
and  service'  was  carried  out  in  the  table  decorations,  as  well  as  in  the  program  which 
followed  the  luncheon.     It  was  a  rewarding  day  for  all  attending." 
East  Long  Beach  Stake  (California)  Inter-Faith  Social 
May  25,   1962 
At  the  right:  Gladys  Phillips,  theology  class  leader. 
Melva  Orgill,  President,  East  Long  Beach  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports:  "A  very 
lovely  inter-faith  social  was  held  May  25,  1962.  A  program  designed  to  explain  the 
history,  purposes,  and  activities  of  Relief  Society  through  words  and  music,  was  well 
accepted  by  those  in  attendance.  The  adjoining  hall  was  then  opened  to  allow  the 
group  to  view  closely  and  leisurely  demonstrations  and  displays  of  all  phases  of  the 
Relief  Society  program:  the  educational  program,  the  homemaking  program,  the  recrea- 
tional program,  the  Welfare  program,  and  other  activities.  Light  refreshments  were 
served,  as  well  as  samples  of  bread,  candies,  relishes,  and  other  foods  distributed  from 
the  demonstrations.  This  social  was  felt  to  be  a  most  successful  activity,  with  many 
women  joining  their  hands  and  hearts  to  show  nonmember  friends  the  greatness  of 
Relief  Society.     The  picture  represents  the  theology  display."

766 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— OCTOIER  1962

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD  767 
South  Carolina  Stake  Relief  Society  Celebrates  the  Anniversary 
of  Relief  Society,  March  17,  1962 
Left  to  right:  stake  board  members  Fannie  Thornton,  Sylvia  Bass,  Carolyn  Hurren, 
Bernice  Kneece  and  Alice  Voyles;  Lottie  P.  Joyner,  First  Counselor,  South  Carolina 
Stake  Relief  Society;  Elder  Benjamin  W.  Wilkerson,  President,  South  Carolina  Stake; 
Harriet  W.  Capps,  President,  South  Carolina  Stake  Relief  Society;  Malcolm  B.  Fagan, 
Second  Counselor;  Nellie  Opie,  Melba  Ross,  Donna  Jensen;  Geraldine  D.  Petty, 
Secretary-Treasurer. 
Sister  Capps  reports:  "The  South  Carolina  Stake  Relief  Society  celebrated  the  120th 
birthday  of  Relief  Society  on  March  17,  1962.  Refreshments  were  served  before 
leadership  meeting  began.  Members  of  the  stake  board  were  attired  in  costumes, 
similar  to  those  worn  by  the  sisters  of  the  first  Relief  Society  in   1842." 
Palmyra  Stake  (Utah),  Spanish  Fork  Sixth  Ward  Relief  Society 
Presents  "The  Relief  Society  Memory  Book/'  March  20,  1962 
Left  side,  seated,  left  to  right:  Ann  Leek,  as  Emma  Smith;  Effie  Sorensen,  as 
Clarissa  Williams;  May  Christopherson,  as  Emmeline  B.  Wells. 
Left  side,  standing,  left  to  right:  Edith  Ludlow,  as  Ehza  R.  Snow;  Flora  Belle 
Davis,  as  Zina  D.  H.  Young;  Delores  Nelson,  ward  chorister;  Luana  Clark,  ward  organ- 
ist; Vera  Jenkins,  as  Bathsheba  W.  Smith. 
Right  side,  seated,  left  to  right:  Jennie  Dart,  as  Amy  Brown  Lyman;  Lula  Hermen- 
son,  as  Belle  S.  Spafford;  Dora  Stewart,  as  Louise  Y.  Robison. 
Right  side,  standing,  left  to  right:  Kay  Lowe,  director;  Helen  Olsen,  narrator; 
Zelma  Hair,  President,  Sixth  Ward  Relief  Society;  Blanche  Bradford,  First  Counselor; 
Emma  Hancock,  Second  Counselor;  Ruth  Hancock,  Secretary-Treasurer. 
Bernice  S.  Swenson,  President,  Palmyra  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports:  "This  was 
one  of  the  best  and  most  exciting  Seventeenth  of  March  affairs  we  have  ever  had. 
To  see  so  many  of  the  older  women  participating  and  happy  over  the  event  was  a 
great  thrill  to  us,  and  we  sincerely  feel  that  there  is  no  better  way  to  learn  of  the  lives 
of  great  women  in  our  Church  and  in  Relief  Society,  and  to  enjoy  each  other's 
association,  than  by  accomplishing  such  a  presentation.  The  nine  general  presidents 
of  Relief  Society  were  represented  in  an  oval  opening  of  the  album.  Special  tributes 
were  given  to  the  Sixth  Ward  Relief  Society  presidency.  The  play  was  written  by 
Virginia  D.  Clark,  with  revision  and  additions  by  Marianne  C.  Sharp  and  Alberta  H. 
Christensen,  and  directed  by  Kay  Lowe.  Small  portraits  of  each  president  were 
placed  in  silver  frames  and  given  to  each  sister  present." 
South  Davis  Stake  (Utah)  Singing  Mothers  Present  Music  for 
Many  Occasions 
Stake  Relief  Society  President  Ilene  S.  Bagley  stands  first  on  the  right  in  the  second 
row,  as  a  member  of  the  chorus. 
Standing  in  front:  Blanche  J.  Ellis,  Education  Counselor,  who  was  the  author  of 
the  continuity  and  one  of  the  narrators  for  the  May  4th  concert;  Maurine  M.  Haycock, 
Work  Director  Counselor,  who  acted  as  publicity  chairman  for  the  concert;  Gladys 
C.  Van  de  Merwe,  narrator;  Mona  M.  Jensen,  stake  chorister;  Inez  C.  Tanner,  stake 
organist,  seated  at  the  piano. 
Sister  Bagley  reports:  "The  South  Davis  Stake  Singing  Mothers  chorus  of  sixty 
voices  began  rehearsing  in  February  1962,  in  preparation  for  stake  conference,  which 
was  held  in  March,  and  for  a  concert  held  on  May  4th,  as  well  as  for  the  two-stake 
Relief  Society  convention  held  in  conjunction  with  Bountiful  South  Stake.  Twelve 
numbers  were  learned  by  the  group  and  artfully  presented  on  these  occasions.  The 
concert  was  the  musical  highlight  of  the  year  in  the  stake.  It  is  hoped  that  this  will 
become  an  annual  affair.  Each  of  the  stake  board  members  was  given  an  individual 
assignment  concerning  the  concert,  and  all  were  co-partners  in  its  success."