[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | Unknown | Issue: 5 | Title: NEVER ALONE | Author: Unknown]

NEVER ALONE
We are never alone among Saints who are
	true,
Who’ve sincerely accepted “the Covenant
	New;”
Relationship tender and near we can claim
Because we have taken upon us His name.
For He, our Redeemer, when here upon earth,
Once was told she would see Him who gave to
	Him birth;
He wondrously answered—Oh, blest be His
	grace!—
Words whose comfort and promise time ne’er
	shall efface:
“He that now doeth my own Father’s will,
The same is my brother, the law to fulfill;
My mother and sisters also are they”—
For the soul’s sure contentment what more
	could he say!
If we keep His sayings He’ll own us and bless;
We’re His sisters and mothers, we cannot be
	less;
Oh, blessed relation to Him, our great King!
With hearts full of gladness His praises we’ll
	sing.
No title e’er given to beings of earth
Could mean the great splendor, the beauty
	and worth,
Of that divine kinship which He thus declared
With those who are worthy for “mansions pre-
	pared.”
Look up, sister, brother, be glad and rejoice,
For He hath made plain by His own precious
	voice,
That we are all kindred—then why feel alone,
Since we hope soon to meet Him and kneel at
	His throne!
					—Mary A. Freeze.


[Column 1]
			OPPORTUNITY.
	[Paper read at recent meeting of Utah Wom-
an’s Press Club by Mrs. Amanda M. Done.]
	I like the common symbol of the New
Year, the pure, fresh, joyous, hopeful babe,
with infinite possibilities, unbounded hopes,
and countless opportunities. It is a symbol
of the fact that with the New Year every
one is born again; the dead past is buried;
and the future with its endless vista of hope,
is once more opened to us. The babe is the
fitting emblem of the New Year and its
opportunities.
	It seems appropriate to make Opportunity
our watchword for the year just opening,
and for every future year. It is the birth of
opportunity that the New Year symbolizes.
it means the immortality of the soul. That
soul alone is dead that has no hope of a new
and potent opportunity. As the meaning of
the second death is a cessation of progress,
so the meaning of eternal life is endless op-
portunity to advance. The death we need to
fear is stagnation. The soul can never die
that seizes potent time, and makes present
opportunity the means of unending future
advancement.
	I know of no poem in the language more
hopeless, more resonant of buried possibil-
ities and departed hopes, than the oft quoted
one by J. J. Ingalls, entitled, “Opportunity.’’
For the sake of the demonstration of my
point, I will quote it:
Master of human destinies am I,
Fame, love and fortune on my footsteps wait.
Cities and fields I walk; I penetrate
Deserts and seas remote, and passing by
Hovel, and mart, and palace— soon or late
I knock unbidden once at every gate!
If sleeping, wake—if feasting, rise before
I turn away. It is the hour of fate,
And they who follow me reach every state
Mortals desire, and conquer every foe
Save death; but those who doubt or hesitate;
Condemned to failure, penury and woe,
Seek me in vain and uselessly implore—
I answer not, and I return no more.
	By way of contrast, and to give further
demonstration of the thought I wish to con-
vey, I will quote a poem written in answer
to the one-just given, by one of our western
writers, Walter Malone. Opportunity is
represented as saying,
They do me wrong who say I come no more
	When once I knock and fail to find you in;
For every day I stand outside your door,
	And bid you wake, and rise to fight and win.
Wait not for precious chances past away;
	Weep not for golden ages on the wane!
Each night I burn the records of the day;
	At sunrise every soul is born again.
Laugh like a boy at splendors that have sped,
	To vanished joys be blind and deaf and
		dumb;
My judgments seal the dead past with its dead,
	But never bind a moment yet to come.
Though deep in mire, wring not your hands
	and weep;
I lend my arm to all who say, “I can!”
No shamefaced outcast ever sank so deep
	But yet might rise and be again a man!
Dost thou behold thy lost youth all aghast?
	Dost reel from righteous retribution’s blow?
Then turn from blotted archives of the past
	And find the future’s pages white as snow.
Art thou a mourner? Rouse thee from thy
	spell;
Art thou a sinner? Sins may be forgiven;

[Column 2]
Each morning gives thee wings to flee from
	hell,
Each night a star to guide thy feet to
	heaven.
The sublime line of the poem,
	“At sunrise every soul is born again,”
is the embodiment of hope and real oppor-
tunity. It gives to the struggling individual
a new lease of hope and life; and relegates
to oblivion the idea that an opportunity
missed spells hopelessness and despair. We
live too much in the past. The dead issues
of the past have too much of our attention
and our life. The thought that goes back-
ward except for momentary retrospect, to
gain a new and more substantial grasp on
the future, is a thought wasted, or worse
than wasted. The thought that dwells on
the present and projects itself into the fu-
ture, is the thought that is pregnant with
great hope and future possibility, that gives
birth to deeds of courage and strength and
sublime accomplishment.
	Our opportunities are countless and of
infinite variety. The giving of a cup of cold
water to a little child, is a priceless oppor-
tunity; and one that shall in no wise lose its
reward. The giving of a hopeful look and
a cheering word to one that thirsts for en-
couragement, is a blessed opportunity that
offers itself recurrently every day. The
lifting up of the hopeful, cheerful counte-
nance, to beam on the saddened face of sor-
row and bereavement, is one of our precious
opportunities. Not the giving alone to those
who may return the gift with interest; but
the giving of sunshine and greeting and
joyousness and hopefulness to the souls that
sink in poverty and hide in obscurity, and
pine away for just the visit or the word
with which more fortunate souls are sur-
feited.


