[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | Unknown | Issue: 5 | Title: RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS. | Author: Ida Rogers, on religion in the home, was]

	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		BENSON STAKE.
	The Benson Stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held in Richmond Nov. 9, 1911.
President Rebecca Rawlins presided, and
welcomed all present and hoped the Spirit of
the Lord would be in our midst during our
conference. Reports from the different
wards were then heard. A paper written
by Ida Rogers, on religion in the home, was
read by Maud Roskelley.
	Sister Susa Y. Gates, of the General
Board, spoke of the work the sisters have
to do and the work they are doing. We
must face the storm in order to do our
duty; spoke of Temple work; we must learn
to estimate time that we may attend to our
spiritual duties.
	Sister Edna May Davis, of the General
Board, spoke of the need of being prayer-
ful in order to perform our duties. We must
strive to have patience with our children and
especially the wayward ones.
	Afternoon Session.—After the opening
exercises Sister Mary J. Harrison made a
few opening remarks hoping we would have
an enjoyable time together. A very able
paper was given by Hannah Larson on
“Temple Work.” A song was nicely ren-
dered by Sister Isabella Holladay and chor-
us, after which Linnie Fisher of Oxford
recited a piece entitled, “The Old Home.”
	Sister Edna May Davis spoke of simplic-
ity in dress when entering the Temple—that
we should pay more attention to dressing
the mind than to dressing the body.
	Sister Susa Y. Gates spoke of the neces-
sity of teaching our children to read, more
especially to read the Bible. She asked the
mothers to read to their little ones that they
might form the habit; also to teach our chil-
dren to pray—to pray with our boys, so that
when they grow older they will benefit by it.
	Brother Samuel Roskelley urged the sis-
ters to put into practice what they had
heard; after which the benediction was of-
fered by August S. Schow.
				OLIVE HARRIS, Sec.
		LIBERTY STAKE.
	The semi-annual conference of Liberty
Stake Relief Society was held in the Ninth
Ward meeting house, Dec. 14, 1911, Coun-
selor Zurviah G. Eardley presiding, Presi-
dent Anna S. Musser being excused on ac-
count of being in quarantine. After the
opening exercises, the roll was called, each
ward being represented. Sister Eva M.
James then favored us with a solo, and the
Tenth, Thirty-third, Liberty and Emigra-
tion Wards were reported to be progressing
favorably and in the line of their duty.
Sister Lillian Malquist rendered a piano
solo.
	Sister Alice M. Horne of the General
Board addressed the conference, giving
good instructions, speaking words of en-
couragement, and urged all present to sub-
scribe for the Woman’s Exponent.
	The solo entitled “Sometime, Some-
where,” was rendered by Sister Eva James,
after which Elders C. W. Symons and T.
H. Woolley of the High Council spoke to us
for a short time, stating their interest in
Relief Society work, the influence for good
derived from it, encouraged us to seek in-
spiration from our Heavenly Father, and
expressed their desire to render what as-
sistance they could for the cause.

[Column 2]
	Sister Elizabeth Crismon of the General
Board addressed us for a short time.
	Counselor Mary Hodgson spoke on the
Christmas spirit and encouraged us to be
cheerful givers.
	After the closing exercises conference ad-
journed until 2 o’clock. During the noon
recess, lunch was served to all present.
	Confernece reconvened at 2 o’clock.
After the opening exercises, and a solo en-
titled “Jerusalem,” by Sister Nellie Scon-
berg, Counselor Z. G. Eardley gave greeting
and welcomed all present, afterwards intro-
ducing Elder LeGrand Young, who lec-
tured to us on the “Advancement of Wom-
en,” which was instructive and much en-
joyed. A letter was read from the General
Board concerning the storing of wheat, also
one about Richie’s Primer of Sanitation.
	Elder C. W. Symons spoke to us on the
organization of the Relief Society and its
early history, and asked the blessings of
God on all our efforts.
	Counselor Eardley made a few closing
remarks, thanking all who had helped to
make our conference a success. After a
solo by Sister Eva James entitled “God be
with us till we meet again,” benediction
was pronounced by Sister Vilate Barrows.
Adjourned for six months.
				LIZZIE ROBBINS, Sec.
		ONEIDA STAKE.
	Conference of the Oneida Stake Relief
Society, Nov. 12, 1911, President Louisa B.
Benson presiding. There were present Susa
Y. Gates and Edna May Davis of the Gen-
eral Board, Stake President Jos. S. Geddes,
Counselor James Johnson, members of the
High Council, and other leading brethren.
After opening exercises, Counselor Hannah
Mickleson made an address of welcome.
The roll call showed eleven members of the
Stake Board present, and nine societies rep-
resented. The treasurer’s report was read
and approved. The Societies of Preston
Third Ward, Fairview and Oxford were re-
ported as in satisfactory condition, the
teachers working earnestly, the mothers’
work doing much good, etc.; after which
Sister Susa Young Gates spoke as follows:
	“When we do our duty under adverse
circumstances it helps to strengthen our
character. The strongest men and women
among us have been brought up through ad-
versity. You have one condition here not
found elsewhere, that is, the young moth-
ers are members and workers. This is as
it should be. The Y. L. M. I. A. is a step-
ping stone to the Relief Society. Every
branch of our work in the home, or in any
and every walk of life should be founded on
the stone of the Gospel of Christ. Mothers,
bring up your children on the diet of the
Scriptures. Feeding the poor, visiting the
sick, clothing the naked, etc., are good, but
not enough for Latter-day Saints. We must
live our religion. As women of Zion we
must honor our husbands if we would bring
up our children in the path of the Gospel.
The Relief Society is the only auxiliary or-
ganization that came under the direct super-
vision of the Prophet Joseph Smith.” (The
speaker read Section 25 of the Doctrine and
Covenants, a revelation given to Emma
Smith.) “You Relief Society officers must
work in harmony with your Bishop, as the
Priesthood is the head; it is the power dele-
gated by God for the government of His
Church, and we must honor His Priest-
hood.”

[Column 3]
	Piano solo, by Letitia Pauli.
	Edna May Davis made a few remarks on
proper dress.
	Benediction by Dora Geddes.
	At the afternoon session, the stake choir
furnished the singing, and three more ward
Societies were represented.
	President Louisa B. Benson reported the
Societies of the stake as being in a very en-
couraging condition; spoke on the necessity
of teachers being prompt in visiting; and
asked the husbands to assist their wives to
come to the Relief Society meetings.
	Piano solo, by Letitia Pauli.
	A paper, “Synopsis of Mothers’ Work,”
was read by Secretary Phebe A. M. McNeil.
	Duet by Leonard and Mabel Moore.
	Sister Edna May Davis spoke as follows:
	“It is truth that counts, and I desire to
speak nothing but truth to you. One lesson
we should learn is to do good, not from a
desire for reward but from a love of truth
and righteousness. Today is the day to pre-
pare to meet the Lamb. The vanity of the
world and love of dress are leading many
of our young people astray. Parents should
teach their children the importance of go-
ing to the Temple to be married and thus
start life right. Tight short skirts, with low
neck and short sleeves do not betoken a
modest girl and should never be worn. Mod-
esty is a better adornment than jewels. We
make a serious mistake when we clothe the
body and neglect the mind—the spirit part
of us.”
	The next speaker, Sister Susa Young 
Gates, said:
	“My father (President Young) used to
say ‘Praying will make a man stop sinning,
and sinning will stop a man from praying.'
Life is so short—it is but a span between
the life before and the life to come, that we
have no time to spend in club work. Every
thought, every action of our life should be
to progress in the truth and sowing germs of
eternal truth in the minds of those whom we
meet. Real intelligence is the knowledge of
God and the gospel of Jesus Christ. When
we do not pay an honest tithing we rob our-
selves.” Spoke of Temple work and the
blessings we enjoy in being privileged to
work therein for the redemption of our
dead. “May the Lord help us to be Latter-
day Saints in very deed, and to be true ear-
nest Relief Society workers.”
	Choir sang an anthem, and the benedic-
tion was pronounced by President Jos. S.
Geddes.
		PHEBE A. M. MCNEIL, Sec’y.


