[WomansExponent | Vol40 | 1911 | Unknown | Issue: 5 | Title: ANOTHER WARD PRESIDENT PASSES | Author: Unknown]

ANOTHER WARD PRESIDENT PASSES
				ON.
	Just before the Christmas-tide we laid
away our beloved President, Elizabeth J.
Davis in a profusion of roses and carna-
tions. All the earth was covered with a
soft mantle of snow. The day was beauti-
ful, and the fragrant flowers seemed typical
of the life of this noble woman, which had
been pure and beautiful, full of the “charity
that never faileth.” Sister Elizabeth has
indeed been a Mother in Israel. Her kind,
inspirational voice, sweet smile and cheerful
disposition won all hearts. When she
crossed the threshold of the distressed she
seemed to know intuitively what was
needed, and how assistance might be of-
fered without offense to the most sensitive.
	She was a promoter of harmony and be-
came a power for good wherever her hands
touched. It was her privilege to be asso-
ciated in Relief Society work with both
Maria and Elizabeth Nebeker and with Ra-
chel Whipple. She also labored under M.
Isabella Horne, Clarissa S. Williams and
Harriet B. Harker, in the Salt Lake Stake,
and has been recognized as a type of the
best ward Relief Society President.
	Sister Davis, whose end, without doubt,
was hastened by her overweening care for
the poor and distressed, was taken while in
full possession of her power and ability in
a very active service. A few days longer
would have brought her fifty-ninth birthday,
for she was born Dec. 23.
	Her native land was England, where she
was baptized in 1866, and six years later
came to “Zion.” In 1874 she was married
to James B. Davis, in this city. Her hus-
band, one daughter, and three sons survive
her. She had buried three children during
her life.
	Her only daughter, Elizabeth, was called
to hasten home from her wedding tour in
California, and though she made every ef-

[Column 2]
fort to reach her mother’s side before death
came, she was too late.
	Elizabeth J. Davis was devoted to her
husband, home and children, as well as to
the Relief Society of the Twenty-second
ward, in which capacity she labored over
twenty years. The members of the ward
feel in her taking off a personal loss. The
ward meetinghouse was therefore filled to
overflowing at her funeral, and loving trib-
utes were paid to her memory by Bishop
Alfred Solomon and others. A powerful
discourse was delivered by Judge Booth of
Provo. Bishop Alvin Beesley gave a touch-
ing expression of his great appreciation of
the life and works of the deceased in be-
half of the distressed, and urged the mem-
bers of the ward to emulate her generosity
and interest in the feeble, sick, and poor. Mrs.
Alice Merrill Horne represented the Gen-
eral Board of Relief Society and the Twen-
ty-second ward organization and Mrs. Net-
tie D. Bradford spoke for the stake offi-
cers. The music was choice and touching.
Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley sang “Ave
Maria” and Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward
rendered, “I know that My Redeemer
Lives.” Bishop Alvin Beesley acted as ac-
companist.
	The Relief Society officers had charge
of the funeral services. 
		MARTHA J. WILLEY, Secretary.


