Some Run By Lena B. Price
"Sunrise! What a glorious morning for a sail!" cried Nell, as she gazed across the lake. It was five o'clock, the night had been unusually sultry and the two little sons, one two and a half years old, the other six months, had been fretful but were now sleeping peacefully. After thinking a moment Frank Blake turned to his wife and said, "I'll tell you what let's do, let's slip into our bathing suits and have a plunge in the lake for about ten minutes. Then while you get breakfast and put up a lunch, I'll bring the boat around to the pier, and we'll run over to Syracuse. The grapes should be ready by now in the Adams' orchard; we can do our shopping, visit with Will and Ida for an hour and start home about four-thirty. How will that be for an outing?"
"Glorious!" said Nell, as she grabbed her suit from the line and dashed into the house to put it on.
Frank Blake and his wife had taken up a homestead on Antelope Island, one of the largest islands in the Great Salt Lake, and this was their first summer there. Their little cottage was built on a level plateau that rose gradually from the white sandy beach. A large fresh-water spring furnished the culinary water. As they swam in invigorating abandon, Frank said, "The wind is exactly right for the trip and we should cross in forty-five minutes. Cook a good breakfast, Nell, these morning swims give a fellow a huge appetite."
"All right," she replied. "I'll race you to the house and start it at once," and she sped up the beach only to be overtaken, as she knew she would be. With their arms around each other they reached the house.
In less than an hour everything was ready. The boat which had been freshly painted, with her gleaming mainsail and jib looked like a beautiful swan in the early sunshine. She was a comfortable, staunch little craft built especially for salt water with a broader beam than fresh water vessels. When Nell and the babies were settled the mainsail was raised and caught the breeze, and the boat glided out of the bay. As she cleared the point Harry cried, "See Daddy, there's another boat." They looked, and in the cove adjoining their own bay was the "Night Hawk," a small lake steamer owned by an Investment Company. They had evidently come during the night to get fresh water from the spring and were getting up steam to continue their trip. "If I mistake not," said Frank, "we will land before they get started. Let's show them a thing or two in fast sailing. I didn't intend to use the jib, but we will put 'Louise' through her paces." Eagerly Nell watched the steamer for signs of its starting. In the clear atmosphere every movement of the men on board could be seen for many miles. To be absolutely sure, however, she got the glasses Frank kept in a locker and watched so intently she could see them raising the anchor. "How about it, Nell, have they started?" asked Frank.
"No, but they are all ready," she answered.
"All right, come and take the tiller while I lower the sail. We're across! Some run, I'll say!" and he laughed happily. How he did love the sport! Nell's sparkling eyes and glowing cheeks told how she too had enjoyed the excitement.
A short walk brought them to the orchard and grape vineyard. The early peaches and pears were ripe and grapes hung in heavy bunches from the vines. "Nell, can you think of anything the city has to offer that compares with what we have enjoyed this morning? Our joy in the beauty around us, the ever changing lake, the sunrise and sunsets that are not surpassed anywhere in the world, our morning swims before breakfast, that glorious sail across the lake and now this Eden where we are invited to partake of all the fruit we desire without restriction." A loving glance and a happy sigh was all the answer needed.
Leaving a basket to be filled upon their return, they walked to the store and purchased their needed supplies then called on their friends, Will and Ida Benson, who also had lived on the island but had come to Syracuse where the children could attend school. How time flies when kindred spirits meet! Dinner was over and it was time to start back. As they stepped outside they could feel a subtle change in the air. Nell glanced apprehensively at her husband's face. He gave her a reassuring smile and said, "We may have a bit of a blow before we reach home; the wind is not in our favor as it was this morning."
When they arrived at the orchard they saw Mr. Adams coming toward them. He had filled their basket and tied a cloth securely over the precious fruit to keep it in place. As he neared them Nell could read anxiety written upon his kindly face. "Better come to the house and stay with us tonight, Frank. I don't like the looks of the sky yonder."
"We may have a bit of a blow," answered Frank, "but I am sure we'll make it all right."
"Then take good care of those kiddies, and God be with you," said Mr. Adams as he shook their hands in parting.
They could see that the waves were running high and covered with white caps, but Nell knew her husband's skill with boats and had absolute confidence in his ability to pilot their little craft into their own harbor. "I'll reef the sail before we start," he said, "and you get the quilts from the locker to make yourself and the youngsters as comfortable as possible. Use the center board as a brace for your feet in case she pitches badly. We will have to tack the whole way across, which will mean a distance of nearly forty-five miles, instead of fifteen." In spite of herself an unreasoning fear was gripping Nell's heart. The sun was no longer visible, black clouds were being driven across the sky, the waves struck the tiny craft with sledge hammer blows as she zigzagged her way across the Jake. Suddenly it seemed as though the heavens were torn asunder, as a flash of lightning crashed across the sky and roll after roll of thunder deadened the roar of the waves. Nell felt in the locker for a light rope which she knew Frank always carried. Then she tied one end around Harry's body, using the rest to tie herself and the baby. No matter what happened, if it were to be the end, her babies must be found with her. It was now so dark she could no 254 longer see her husband's face or hear his encouraging voice above the sound of the waves. She only knew they were voing like mad through the blackness of the night. "If only the rain holds off," prayed Nell, "we will reach home sometime, but if it comes, heaven help us for we have no protection,' and a great sob shook her. She knew the meaning of rain under those conditions. It came as a cloudburst and required strong men to bale the water out of the boat, it fell so fast. She had lived through one such storm and been saved only by a miracle. Just then, through a rift in the clouds, the moon shone full for a moment then all was dark again, but it was long enough for Frank to see the outline of the island, and he shouted the glad news to her, "We'll be home in half an hour." Was it in answer to her prayer, that moment of light in which she could see his face and hear his comforting voice? Be that as it may, the anguish passed and she lowered her head on her baby's curls and gave way to the tears of thanksgiving that need no longer be restrained. True to his estimate Frank beached the boat within a rod of his own pier. Nell slipped the rope from the sleeping babies and her own body, straightened her cramped limbs, and with baby Noel in her arms, followed Frank, with Harry and the basket of fruit, up the shore to the house—or what was left of it. The kitchen had been unroofed and the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE south wall partly blown in, but the living room and bed room were intact. That was enough. She tucked the babies in their beds and prepared for her own. "Look at the clock,- Nell," said Frank, "just three a. M." She blew out the light, and as she drifted off to sleep she heard Frank say, "Some Run!". HIS story was the writer's own experience. The six-months-old baby mentioned, lived to bring honor to his native State, Utah. Noel Davis was born and reared in Salt Lake City. He graduated from the L. D. S. University in 1910, and then obtained an appointment to the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland, from which school he was a graduate. During the World War he made a brilliant naval record. At the close of the war, Commander Davis was placed on the reserve list, while he attended Harvard law school, specializing in aviation law. After his graduation he wrote several books on aerodynamics which are now being used by navy pilots. He was killed when his plane, "The American Legion," crashed at Langly Field while testing it for a non-stop flight from New York to Paris. A landing field has since been named in his honor. When Colonel Charles A. Lindbergh flew over the home of Noel's mother in Oakley, Idaho, he dropped a greeting in honor of her illustrious son.