Women's Opinions ary issue, the Ladies' Home Journal is reporting a new nation-wide survey on what the women of America think about marriage, divorce, birth control, money, war, strikes, and other human problems. Thirty-seven million women have been interviewed, representing Bey issue, ? with the Februall classes, degrees of education, and religious beliefs, in an effort to get a scientific cross section of women's opinions. The answers have been tabulated with precision. The Journal states that this is the first time that an effort has been made to measure the opinion of American women on social and human relationship EDITORIALS problems. The opinions regarding the various problems are to be released monthly.. The February issue dealt with marriage and divorce and revealed some interesting and challenging ideas. Sixty-nine per cent of the women believe in divorce, with the highest income groups showing the highest percentage. Ninety-four per cent believe in uniform divorce laws. The survey shows that women believe money to be the chief cause of friction in marriage. Many traditionally accepted theories about marital friction are refuted. Kindness and consideration, the ability to provide, and faithfulness are listed as the most essential qualifications of a husband. A wife should be first a good homemaker, with a good disposition, kindness and _ consideration next in line. The answers on the problem of birth control show that a majority of the women believe in having children. Ninety-eight per cent of the mothers said they are glad they have children; 40 per cent said they wish they had more than they have. Opinions regarding money are interesting. Thirty dollars a week 277 is considered enough, in the average community, on which to start married life; expenditures for the wife's clothes are considered the chief cause of financial discord in the home; money should be controlled by neither husband nor wife, but by both. Of special interest are the opinions on installment buying. The articles are interesting and the answers given important. The very fact that the Journal is undertaking such a survey shows that women's opinions are being recognized. The thinking of women today will profoundly influence the laws of tomorrow, There are many laws definitely affecting home and family life with which women are dissatisfied and which women today are qualified to improve. Women banded together are a force for right. Parents and schools may well be awakened to their responsibilities in placing greater emphasis upon homemaking, particularly the financial aspects. Women profoundly influence the boys and girls of the nation as they grow to maturity. Much depends upon what women are thinking. Martha Horne Tingey A we have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially unto them who are of the household of faith."?Gal. 6:10. Forty-nine years in the general presidency of the Y. W. M. I. A. Provided Sister Martha Horne Tingey abundant opportunity to do good, especially to the girls and women of the Church. That these opportunities were utilized to the fullest, thousands can bear testimony. Called to act as counselor to Sister Elmina S. Taylor, the first general president of Y. W. M. I. A., when but twenty-three years of age, Sister Tingey served with love and efficiency until ill health made it necessary for her to retire as President in 1929. During her presidency the Y. W. M. I. A. Grew in membership and increased in interest and activity. Traveling throughout the stakes she has made many friends who hold her in fond remembrance. Her passing March 11, 1938, leaves a Latter-day Saint sisterhood grateful for a life faithfully and effectively lived.