The Philosophy of Faith By Elder Stephen L. Richards
Before discussing the acquisition and retention of the philosophy of faith, I should like to mention some of its attributes, or more specifically the characteristics with which it invests those who subscribe to it.
In the first place, in direct contrast to the philosophy of self-sufficiency, which is the philosophy of the world, faith brings to a man humility—not servility, but a modest, unpretentious, submissive attitude which makes him conscious of and amenable to powers and forces higher and more potential than himself.
There is in my estimation no good reason why this philosophy of humility and faith should in any way detract from man's intelligence. The recognition of power higher than man himself does not in any sense debase him. If in his faith he ascribes beneficence and high purpose to the power which is superior to himself he envisions a higher destiny and nobler attributes for his kind and is stimulated and encouraged in the struggle of existence. He has confidence in the justice of eternal and unchanging law, which is not subject to the caprice and fitful will of men. So to the rich or poor, the high or lowly, the successful and those who fail, the philosophy of faith brings stability, poise, composure, hope, and enduring satisfaction. It is a vital and priceless acquisition. It is not always easy to attain.
What are the ways of securing faith? I admit that difficulties are to be encountered because a man cannot really know what faith is until he has experienced it, nor can he really experience it without recognizing it for what it is.
Now I propose as an important first step in acquiring faith, particularly by those of little maturity in the thinking process, a recognition of the difference between the realm of faith and spirit on the one hand, and mind and matter on the other. It is always desirable, I believe, to bear in mind this distinction. It is particularly important to those of limited years or experience, who may be having some difficulty in their thinking, in making certain adjustments and reconciliations.
Let me cite an example: A young man raised in a household of faith has always been taught to pray. He has assumed and felt, probably without much thinking about it, that there is a superior power to hear and answer his prayers. This young man goes to college. Among his studies he perhaps pursues some of the sciences. One day, perhaps in a purely casual way, someone asks him, "Do you pray?" It may be a classmate, or even a teacher. "Why certainly," he replies. "Why shouldn't I?" "To whom do you pray?" is the next question. "Why, to God, of course." "Where is your God? What is He like? Have you ever seen Him? How do you know He exists?"
Well, these questions he can not so easily answer. He pauses for reply, and in that pause an avalanche of new thoughts and novel sensations almost overwhelm him, and very likely in real confusion this young man says to himself, "How do I know? What do I really know?"
In his study of the sciences he has learned something of the scientific process. He knows that everything must be demonstrated before conclusions can legitimately be reached, and he knows that the demonstrations required are those that are tangible and susceptible of very definite and positive human proof. He has had an introduction into the realm of reason, and for the moment at least the methods of that realm dominate his intelligence and his senses.
How fortunate is this young man, if, after the first rush of those perplexing thoughts, it occurs to him that there is a wide difference between the province of science and reason on the one hand and that of the spiritual and feeling on the other. Now, fully aware of this difference, he replies to his inquisitors, "Why yes, I know that God lives. I do not know where He is, I have never seen him, but I am perfectly satisfied that He exists, and this I know through my faith. I don't ask for the same kind of proof and demonstration that are required in the sciences. I am not dealing with similar matters. My faith is a matter of feeling and inward conviction. I know that there is a divine world as well as I know that I love my mother. These are matters of feeling. My soul is satisfied. That is all I ask."
Now I would not have you think that the young man of my illustration could not have brought to the support of his conviction many persuasive and convincing arguments. He might have asked his inquirers to account for the universe with its illimitable manifestations of law and order without the dominance of a master mind. He might have brought to his aid the records of sacred and profane history, the universal prevalence of the idea of Deity among all nations and people, the incomparable achievements of mankind as distinguished from all other forms of animal life, and many other pertinent things.
As for the next step in the acquisition of faith and testimony, the fanciful critic or any other like him can find out, if he will, whether or not the testimony is true. This way may seem paradoxical. It is this: one may secure faith by doing the things that he would do and being the kind of a person that he would be if he had faith. In other words, he must repose enough confidence at the beginning of his inquiry in spiritual realities to enable him in faith to undertake spiritual exercise and endeavor. It is not enough that he try merely the form of spiritual exercise as an experiment. He must be truly humble. He will have to forsake the philosophy of self-sufficiency. He must seek believing, praying, and hoping that he will find. No such sincere, prayerful effort will go unrequited—that is the very constitution of the philosophy of faith.
Spiritual exercise may be of either a public or private nature. All open participation in religious and Church activities is calculated to strengthen spiritual powers. Such participation is highly desirable and not infrequently is it regarded as the chief factor in the culmination of a firm testimony. It is, however, with reference to private spiritual exercise that I feel a very deep concern. Thinking processes in all institutions of higher learning, frequently undergo very radical changes, not always because professors or instructors intentionally promote such changes, but because the exposure of the mind to new concepts, new principles and methods very frequently brings reactions and complexes that are altogether unbidden by either student or teacher. I know that this is true because I have had such experiences myself.
Sometimes thoughts are like unruly children—difficult to control. I have persuaded myself, however, that they can be disciplined, and often they must be if we are to preserve our faith. Let me illustrate again with a fanciful character. He may be a student or even a professor, because, after all, good professors are always students. This academic man begins to ponder. He has studied and he has done a good deal of scientific thinking. He comes on to a number of perplexing questions with apparent incompatibility between his former conceptions of faith and the new things which he learns. What about the age of the earth? Was Adam really the first man? In the light of what he has learned can he still believe in the miracles as reported in the scriptures, and coming down to later days, can the story of the Prophet Joseph Smith be true? Was he really visited by heavenly beings? Did he translate the Book of Mormon by the power of the Lord? Was the holy Priesthood actually bestowed by divine messengers?
It is while he is contemplating such things, even though he is loath to let go of his once simple faith, that his thoughts spring up unbidden, almost belligerently, to fight down his erstwhile convictions. They heckle him and they challenge him. "What do you know? How much proof have you?" they say. "Why don't you acknowledge, in the face of what you have learned, that you have been the victim of a delusion?" And he says to himself in answer to these taunts, "I do want to be intellectually honest; I want to be true to myself."
Now here is where I want to break into this conversation with himself. I want to ask this scholar—who has a thinking complex of the kind which I have mentioned, this question, when he says, "I want to be true to myself:" "What part of yourself is it to which you want to be true? Is it your spiritual self or this new man of science? Is it that fellow who was yourself throughout your boyhood and your youth; whom your mother and father nurtured so carefully and loved so much; who was so confident in the goodness of things and so happy in his confidence; whose pure faith held such high promise for his people and those who loved him?"
Now if this is the part of yourself to whom you wish to be true, I think I can tell you what to do. Just say to those skeptical, disturbing, rebellious thoughts, "I propose to stay with my faith, with the faith of my people. I know that happiness and contentment are there, and I forbid you, agnostic, doubting thoughts, to destroy the house of my faith. I acknowledge that I do not understand the processes of creation, but I accept the fact of it. I grant that I cannot explain the miracles of the Bible and I do not attempt to do so, but I accept God's word. I wasn't with Joseph, but I believe him. My faith did not come to me through science and I will not permit science to destroy it. When I change my mind about God and His work, only the inspiration of God will change it."
You may think all this evasive. I urge you to try it before deciding. I am proud of science and reason and their marvelous development as I think I should be. I love education. It is the promise of universal peace and progress. In the presence of a master mind, penetrating, logical, and luminous, I stand with admiration that almost approaches reverence. I want to think, I want everyone to think, for thinking is the better part of study. I believe, however, our thoughts may be disciplined without stultification of our intelligences and with infinite peace and happiness to ourselves.
In conclusion, I issue another caution with a promise. I believe that an observance of it will be more potential than anything I have mentioned in the preservation of your faith. It is this: Never depart from the teachings of the Church; keep every commandment—do not be persuaded that you can violate any one with impunity; honor God—and I promise you, you will never lose your faith in Him.—Reprint from Millennial Star.