RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Personality By Elsie C. Carroll
She is beautiful. She is brilliant. She is efficient. She is clever. She has a wonderful personality. Perhaps any of the above tributes would be music to a woman's ears. But to a great many, the last would be most highly prized. At a convention of the American Association of Psychologists, considerable attention was given to the subject of personality. Such questions were considered as: What is personality? Of what characteristics is it composed? What relation does it bear to mental hygiene, to social adjustments? How is it related to crime, to success, to happiness, and how can it be cultivated? A number of interesting papers were given reporting various studies in this complex field. One study of special significance aimed to determine what characteristics, or traits, make up a pleasing personality. Over a period of several years this study has been in progress at the Horace Mann school in Teachers' College at Columbia University. The professor who gave the report took the high school girls of this institution as a group for study. He chose them, because they were girls from well-to-do families, who had more than average opportunities for cultural contacts and training. In other words, they were girls who should have a lot of personality according to popular understanding. These girls were asked at different intervals during the period of the study to list the members of their group according to the best or most pleasing personalities. The teachers of these girls made similar lists. The girls and teachers also listed what they considered the particular traits which contributed to the pleasingness or charm of each girl's personality. Another part of the procedure was to obtain from each girl and each teacher a list of the names of five persons, other than relatives, most loved or liked, and a summary of the characteristics which drew forth that love. The psychologist found that the girls and their teachers listed forty-six personality traits, which fell into eight groups. According to the judgments of these persons, a girl has a pleasing personality if she has one or more of the following classes of traits: 1. If she is entertaining, that is, interesting, amusing, original, etc. 2. If she is brilliant, having competence, wit, a sense of humor. 3. If she has culture, under which were included talents, accomplishments, broad interests, etc. 4. If she is just, fair in her dealings with others, has good judgment, is idealistic, broad-minded. 5. If she is attractive, pretty, athletic, endowed with or accomplished in the social graces. 6. If she is a good-fellow, possessing naturalness, frankness, generosity, good-sportsmanship. 7. If she is a good neighbor, dependable, loyal, tolerant, unselfish. 8. If she is diplomatic, that is, tactful, adaptable, has a pleasing voice, etc. The traits which both the teachers and the girls listed first and most frequently were: "interesting conversationalists," "wide range of interests," "sincere," "adaptable," "dependable." This study, conducted in a more or less scientific manner, reveals what all of us from our own observation and experience already know. We all react just as these girls and these teachers did to persons having the traits they listed.
More vitally important than knowing what qualities make up a pleasing personality, is the problem of improving one's own personality. The first step in an effort to improve is the desire to do so. The next is an analysis of our own characteristics in order to determine our short-comings. The next step is to set up an ideal toward which to build. Every great achievement in the physical, the intellectual, or the spiritual world begins first as a dream, an ideal, a goal. Such studies as the one cited above help to give us a pattern. For instance, I may discover that I am not an interesting conversationalist. How can I help myself in this direction? I may read more, observe more carefully, meditate over what I have read or seen or experienced in order to have more things to talk about. I can practice telling my family and my friends what I have read, observed, or thought, trying to be as truthful and as graphic as possible.
A girl who went to live in a dormitory of one of the large universities of our country, realized that she could not compete with the others there in personal attractiveness, in dress, or in cultural background. She made up her mind, however, that she could become the most interesting conversationalist of the group, and set about to achieve that goal. She kept her senses alert. Instead of being satisfied, as most of us are, with seeing and hearing things in a blurred sort of way, she looked and listened until she saw and heard clearly, being able to make fine distinctions in colors, shapes, and sounds. When she went down town, or even across the campus, she was constantly on the lookout for something new, something unusual?and she always found it. It might be a humorous situation, or a tragic one, an odd or unusual character, a new tint in the sky at sunset, a spray of leaves or a flower. Whatever it was, she carried its impression vividly in her mind and shared it with her companions. It was not long until she found herself the most popular girl in the dormitory. The students and even the teachers, made it a point to be on hand wherever this girl was because she always had something interesting to talk about. As with this accomplishment, so with the others. We learn to do by doing, and we learn to be by being. We can become more attractive by consciously taking better care of our health, by giving more attention to our bodies and our clothing. We can cultivate good-fellowship by conscientious efforts to be natural and sincere under all circumstances, by practicing generosity. We can become better neighbors by seeking opportunities to develop loyalty, tolerance, unselfishness, and dependability. Gradually we may become more pleasing in personality by striving to do the things we admire in others and by trying to be the kind of person we like our friends to be.