(To be continued) Our Easter Customs By Dorothy Nell Mair THEN the last blizzard of winter has vanished and the cold winds cease their eerie whistling in the chimney, spring has come. With the springtime comes the Easter season, and the resurrection of things that are good and beautiful. As Christ rose from the darkness of the tomb, so rise the plants from the sleeping darkness of the earth to carpet the barren ground with green grass and embroider it with flowers. At Eastertide we cast off the old and worn-out things and accept the vigorous new ones. It is the season of renewed hopes and spiritual happiness, when life begins again. Mankind, in a joyous state of mind, must celebrate such a season. Since antiquity Easter has been observed in various ways and with various symbols, not all of them having origin in the age of Christianity. Just why we celebrate Easter has even been disputed by some historians. The Christian world generally accepts it to be in commemoration of the Resurrection of Christ, but some authorities tell us that it is an old Saxon custom celebrating the festival of the Saxon goddess, Eastre, who was honored each spring. The word Easter comes from the Saxon word oster, meaning "to rise." In the spring all plant life arises. Nature awakens from the winter's slumber and growing things appear upon the earth. Likewise mankind's spirit arises, too, with hopefulness. He must express this happiness, and he does so, with festivals that are both gay and religious. WHEN we think of Easter, we think of the longiflorum lilium, or Easter lily. Its waxen whiteness signifies purity; its fragrance is refreshing. How much one of these beautiful potted lilies add to a room when it graces a mantel, a window seat, a draped corner, or an end table beside a cozy chair. Lilies were the flowers of the ancients, and no others have had their beauty extolled in prose and poetry quite as much. They are the Biblical flowers; the white ones symbolic of purity, consecrated to the Virgin Mary. It is believed, however, that the lilies mentioned in the Bible were not true liliums, but true lilies were known to the ancients. The appearance of lily designs upon pottery proves that. Also, there are a number of flowers termed lily which are not true lilies—the Lily of the Valley being one, although in church history this dainty little flower is symbolic of the Virgin's tears. There are many varieties of liliums, aside from the Easter lily. When colonization of North America began lilies were found growing in the woods and meadows. The bulbs were shipped back to England where cultivation has been going on for three centuries. It has been only within the last seventy-five years that they have been cultivated on this continent. Some of the largest lily blooms ever grown are now extinct and their cultivation lost to the world. The longiflorum or Easter lily, as we call it, is not a native of North America, but an imported bulb OUR EASTER CUSTOMS from Japan, extensively cultivated by our American florists. This is the variety grown in pots by the thousands to meet the trade of the Easter season, and everyone loves this fragrant flower. NOTHER symbol of this new life which begins at the Easter season is our Easter egg. We trace this custom back to the Persians who celebrated the beginning of the new year in the springtime and presented each other with an egg, believing that within the egg * was the secret of life. The "Festival of the Eggs" each spring was preserved by the Christian world when the calendar was changed and the new year moved up to January first. Symbolizing new life and a resurrection of things dormant, it fitted into the celebration of the Easter season. The custom of coloring the eggs is exceedingly ancient and was done by the Jews at the Passover time. The early Christian custom' was to decorate the eggs with red, to represent the blood of Christ. Even the downy yellow chick has his place in our Easter symbols. His breaking through the hard shell and entering into the world as a thing alive is suggestive of Christ's victory over the tomb and his again walking about upon the earth until the Ascension. The Easter rabbit comes into our observance of the season through an old superstition, believed to be of Teutonic origin, which says that rabbits laid eggs on Easter Eve. Es 233 JP until the fourth century the celebration of Easter consisted of simple church ceremonies. Then came Constantine, of Rome, the lover of pomp and display, who made the festival one of extravagance. He it was who appeared in church on Easter morning attired in his richest and newest robes. Others, not to be outdone, began dressing up to keep the occasion. Each year more people appeared in church attired in modish dress, until the fashion to look one's best on Easter morning became a universal practice. But there is more behind the desire to wear new clothes on Easter morning, than just to satisfy the vanity of being well-dressed. After the long dreary days of winter when daylight is all too short, and we are compelled to spend a good share of the twenty-four hours in darkness, each soul is clamoring for a release. Eagerly we await the springtime, the lengthening of the daylight, and we grasp for a new and better chance to reestablish our physical resources. We discard our old bundlesome wearing apparel much as we put aside old heartaches and unpleasant experiences of the year before. We don fresh new clothes with the same joy and eagerness with which we herald the good and beautiful growing things of the Easter season. Our new clothes are nothing more than a material manifestation of the happiness within the heart, and the custom now has an established place in the celebration of our Easter festival.