LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - President AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - First Counselor KATE M. BARKER - - - - Second Counselor JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer
Jennie B. Knight Nettie D. Bradford Emma A. Empey Ida P. Beal Annie Wells Cannon Marcia K. Howells Lalene H. Hart Emeline Y. Nebeker Cora L. Bennion Janet M. Thompson Amy Whipple Evans Belle S. Spafford Rosannah C. Irvine Youna Durrant Sorensen Vivian R. McConkie Leda T. Jensen Beatrice F. Stevens Rae B. Barker Nellie O. Parker
 
 


THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Vol. XXV APRIL, 1938 No. 4
Editorials Growth and Leadership A WORTHY program coupled with able leadership generally assures growth and continued existence to an organization. The great church to which you and I belong, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, offers a perfect program of life and salvation to its membership, one that assures peace, comfort, strength and security. Its leadership has always been without peer. On April 6, the Church will be 108 years of age. From a very small membership it has grown until today its membership approaches 800,000 in number, living in all parts of the world. There are 121 established stakes, 1,104 wards, and 32 missions. The vitality and phenomenal growth of the Church lies in its divine origin and inspired leadership. Apostle Orson F. Whitney says, "Mormonism is strong because God is its author? the engineer directing its course, and all the might of Omnipotence is behind it, impelling it on to its destiny." Joseph Smith, Jr., the prophet, seer, and revelator, through whom was restored to earth the Gospel of Jesus Christ in the nineteenth century, founded a religious organization which has made his name known among most of the civilized nations. The marvelous enlargement of the work under the six inspired and intelligent leaders who have followed the Prophet Joseph has increased the faith of the members in the organization itself and in the things for which it stands. Brigham Young, the second leader was made president, December 24, 1847. Known as an "Empire Founder" it has been said of him. "He was for daring a Cromwell, for executive force a Moses." George Q. Cannon at the time of President Young's death said of him, "From the organization of the Church, and the construction of Temples, the building of Tabernacles; from the creation of a provisional state government and a Ter- 276 ritorial government, down to the smallest matter of directing the. Making of the seats upon which we sit this day; upon all these things as well as upon the settlements of the Territory, the impress of his genius is apparent." With the passing of President Young a new leader was raised up. October 10, 1880, John Taylor was made president. President Taylor possessed a spirituality and a veneration for God and truth so great that few men in this world have equaled him in the possession of such qualities. Following the death of President Taylor, Wilford Woodruff was sustained April 7, 1889, to lead in the task of building on earth "the Kingdom of God." Never was a leader more loved by his people than he. Loved by his own and respected by the nation, thus he advanced the work of the Church. Lorenzo Snow, the fifth president, was sustained Sept. 13, 1898. There is not to be found a more interesting or inspired man. Placidity of mind, even in the midst of trouble and danger was characteristic of this great leader. He was a natural financier, and at the same time a spiritually-minded man, of literary tastes and poetic temperament; a broad-minded and charitable man. His administration, though short, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was one of the most notable in the history of the Church because of the improvement in the temporal as well as spiritual condition. Joseph F. Smith followed President Snow, October 17, 1901, a friend of the people, easily approached, a wise counselor, and a man of broad views. Inured to hardships, patient in trial, God-fearing, selfsacrificing, full of love for the human race, powerful in spiritual, mental and physical strength he carried forward the work of the Lord as ably as any who had gone before. November 23, 1918, Heber J. Grant became president of the Church, than whom there has. Been no more zealous leader. Self-effort and force of determination are outstanding character qualities of this great man. An eminent business man, a courageous and powerful spiritual and religious leader, he is today revered by thousands the world over. The Church has always known courageous, tireless, inspired leadership, men who have given their all to the establishment of the Gospel upon the earth in this day. The Latter-day Saint Church has the truth. As long as its members seek after the truth, following the teachings and counsel of those chosen to lead, the Church will continue to grow and bring unbounded blessings to its thousands of members.