UNSEALED By Della Adams Leitner
The women came at sunrise to the tomb, Bearing a last love-offering to Him, Sweet spices for his burial. The gloom Of night was past but oh their eyes were dim. They neared the place with hearts distressed and torn, "For who will roll away the stone for us?" they said. "Its mass and weight our puny strength would scorn, And keep us from our dear beloved dead." But yet they kept on bravely through the dawn To bring oblations, striving doubts to still. O Faith that will not yield but presses on, Your power unseen God's miracles fulfill. And when they looked the stone was rolled away. Grief-stricken hearts all down the passing years Have found the dreaded stone of their dismay Removed by faith that falters not at fears.

Those Deceptive Days By Harrison R. Merrill
Who is there among us who has not sprung from bed on some glorious morning and shouted to the listening world: "This is the day! I am an armed knight; this day I shall joust for the things I love. This day shall I achieve!" And how many of us have not, at least upon some evenings, crept back into our sheets knowing that we have been beguiled into allowing another golden span of life pass without carrying out that determination?
Ralph Waldo Emerson evidently during his lifetime had such experiences, for among the gems which he left us is there not a little jewel called "Days?" I shall quote it:
DAYS
Daughters of Time, the hypocritic Days, Muffled and dumb like barefoot dervishes, And marching single in an endless file, Bring diadems and fagots in their hands. To each they offer gifts after his will, Bread, kingdoms, stars, and sky that holds them all. I, in my pleached garden, watched the pomp, Forgot my morning wishes, hastily Took a few herbs and apples, and the Day Turned and departed silent. I, too late, Under her solemn fillet saw the scorn.
Before I press forward with my theme I should like to say that the poet's lines present some intriguing pictures. There is that line "muffled and dumb like barefoot dervishes, and marching single in an endless file." What a "file" a man or woman of sixty or seventy or eighty has seen! A pageant of white-robed, half-veiled figures extending from 1878, 1868, or 1858 to the present time—21,900 or 25,550, or 29,200 Days—in a seemingly endless row. And each with its diadem or fagot in Her hand ready to bestow a blessing or a curse. Every man of sixty has been given 21,900 opportunities to achieve, not counting the extra days for leap years.
"To each"—these Days—"offered gifts after his will, bread, kingdoms, stars, and even the sky that holds them all." Many of us find the Days too laden with good things. We snatch at this and that as they pass and come to the close of a long life rather empty-handed. Many actually, after all of their chances, have so many worthless and worse than worthless commodities in their possession that we wonder if they are wealthier or poorer than when they began their selections.
Emerson's closing lines are poignant. He says "I, in my pleached garden (blossom-woven, flower-bedecked, perfumed) watched the pomp"—those lovely, golden, soothing, deceptive Days—"forgot my morning wishes." And how very easy that is, especially on a pleasant day. That probably accounts for the fact that the world's great achievements have been made in the temperate zones where not all of the Days are so seductive. The Day, being about to leave, says Emerson "I hastily took a few herbs and apples"—a sort of snatch-grab at sunset—"and the Day turned and departed silent." She said not a word; she couldn't, being dumb. But he continues, "I, too late, under her solemn fillet (coquettish and lacy cap) saw the scorn." There was the Day, ready to bestow "bread, kingdoms, stars, and even the sky that holds them all"—and he took a few herbs and apples. No wonder her lips curled with scorn! He, whose morning wishes had swept the stars, became so enamored of the Day that he forgot those great things he planned to do and wasted his opportunity upon comparatively worthless things. [It seems that most of us lack vision or long view. We are so nearsighted that we cannot see beyond the Day which stands silent before us. The things we choose from each Day's store too often are not related to the ones we took yesterday or the ones we shall take tomorrow. We come at the end of a long procession of Days, after each has left her Gifts, and find that we have a heterogenous mass of material, unrelated, often in its isolation worthless or even worse than worthless. The other day I read a story of Frank A. Munsey, the publisher. It seems that a generation ago he went down to New York City to see the world's fair. In one place a huge new newspaper press had been set up to make known to the visitors what the new press would do. Munsey, a callow youth, stood watching the marvel run. He saw the papers in thousands turned from the great perfecting machine, ready to be distributed to the readers. He stood there a moment, and I fancy he got a long view. He saw that magnificent procession of Days bearing down upon him. Jn the confidence of youth, he turned to a companion RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and said: "Some day I am going 'to own that paper." Now it chanced that the paper of which he spoke was one of the great New York dailies, worth a mint of money, especially did it seem so at that time and Munsey had less than ten dollars. Now you might say that he had merely voiced a youthful wish. Not so. He made a prophecy, for his wish came true. How did he do it? I don't know exactly, but I fancy he did something like this: He said to himself, "Now how shall I go about getting hold of that paper?' He knew of that procession of Days with gifts in their hands. He must have begun 'that very next morning thinking of the things he must do in order to become the editor or owner of a great paper. When that next Day presented Herself before him with gifts in Her hands, he must have looked them over rather carefully. He probably passed by the glistening baubles which gleamed brightly in the sunlight. He must have dug down to those solid, worthwhile things which could be used in building a career. The Day must have smiled hopefully as She turned away, for here was one who was discriminating. On the next Day, he no doubt selected from among the gifts those that would add meaning to his already accumulating store. I haven't looked the matter up to see how many Days brought their gifts to this lad, before his dream had come true. There was probably quite a procession. Success stories like that of Munsey's could be multiplied indefinitely. All of them teach the one important lesson that purpose is the string upon which we must thread the gifts which the Days bring us. Without that unifying purpose, the THOSE DECEPTIVE DAYS materials we gather may be comparatively worthless when it comes to building a life structure we call great. Many a person has begun upon an Edifice, has selected wisely for a few days, but has lacked the stamina to keep up his selection. The deceptive Days offer so many tempting things, and man is so shortsighted, that many a person with nearly all the qualities of greatness in him has fallen short. I suppose the Master was thinking of this daily offering from the Days when He told that story of the talents. That chap with the one talent was a moron. He had no continuity in his thinking or his selection. That chap with five had purpose. He looked at his wares on hand and said to himself: 'Now, there will be a procession of Days along here with gifts for me. What am I to select that will add to my store?" That was a wise act. Wise acts usually bring their reward. HIS article, however, isnot intended to be discouraging. Many of us have difficulty in dreaming fine dreams. Greatness seems so remote that we sense our futility. We must remember, when such hours come, that the Master seemed to think that the contributions of ordinary people, if they were sincere and progressive in their ideals, were worthwhile. The housewife in her own home and in the rearing of her children may find an important and enthralling life's work. We all know of Abraham Lincoln's tribute to his mother: "All that I am I owe to my angel mother." Nancy Hanks, the unknown young woman who lived in the wild forest, because she made a contribution that has astonished the world. How genuine she must have been; how true to her ideals, to impress herself so firmly upon the life of her He immortalized - 225 son before he was nine years old. I wish we knew just what gifts Nancy Hanks accepted from those deceptive Days. Of course the Days which brought their gifts to her were not so laden with worthless baubles as our own, but there is no doubt that she had some choices and there seems to be no doubt that she chose well. The Master settled that with the simple question: "Do men gather figs from thistles, or grapes from thorns?" Since Emerson wrote the poem I have quoted, the Days have certainly loaded up their baskets with tempting bits—movies, radios, bridge and autos, and more and finer foods and gaudy clothing and tinsel and show. Few things are bad in themselves, fortunately, they only become bad when they interfere with our serious selections. When one has the inspiration of the Lord upon him and is ready to achieve greatly, it is so easy to lose the moment by turning aside to the movie or by snapping on that ever-present and ever-inviting radio. "Muffled and dumb like barefoot dervishes" the Days stand with their gifts held out. Each stays but her allotted time no matter what we choose. Like peanut and popcorn vendors, the Days distribute their wares and then move on to the "granary of the years." THE point of this article then is that all of us know there is a procession of Days out there in the future loading the baskets for us. Just how many there are, we do not know, but we know they will be along one after the other so long as our life-sands run. It is the part of wisdom to know what we are going to take from them and then so to fortify our souls that when we have decided to take bricks we cannot be 226 deceived into taking baubles for Christmas trees or tinsel for show. We know that all of those Days will be distributors. They will leave something with us either for our good or for our harm. If all our dreams and ambitions were like infants and if we could see their frail dead bodies as we abandon them one by one, the sight would blast our eyes. Life is interesting. Fortunately, we can live every moment. We may not be remembered, but being remembered is not the purpose of existence. Being is the chief purpose —being as fully, as completely, as enjoyably as we can. Emerson again expressed it fairly well in the latter part of his exquisite little poem: THE RHODORA Rhodora, if the sages ask thee why This charm is wasted on the earth and sky. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Tell them, dear, that if eyes were made for seeing, Then Beauty is its own excuse for being: Why wert thou there, O’rival of the rose! I never thought to ask, I never knew; But, in my simple ignorance, suppose The self-same Power that brought me here, brought you. BE assured, then, that the Days will offer you, my friend, many beautiful things. Take all you can hold successfully, but take with reason and purpose—not because some offering has tempted you. I wish I could follow that advice myself. I cannot, of course, but perhaps I can make my choices from a hundred or a thousand Days look more or less consecutive—purposeful. I trust you can do that also.