The Fountain of Youth—Recreation Loren H. Basler, Supervisor of Recreation—Idaho while recreation for mature women, my thoughts immediately fly to a woman whom I admire and love very much, my mother. Born into a normal American home, with the average amount of education, she raised a family of four children, under the handicap of a very modest financial budget. The things I remember about her are not the long hours she spent washing, mending, cooking and dishwashing, but the time she managed to work into her time budget in order that she could do some of the things she liked and desired to do. I remember the plans she made for her own recreation, the art, the music and the dramatic lessons she took, the little trips she managed, the hats she made, the home decorating which she planned and executed, the parties and socials she arranged. This mother of mine planned her twenty-four hours so that she not only had time for her own rest and relaxation periods, but she also had a lot of pleasure planning recreation for both her family and community. How well I remember the family and neighborhood "sings" we had as we sat in front of the big fireplace, popping corn and shining apples which would later be eaten with fudge; the birthday cakes, candles and parties; the little family orchestra, the pony, dogs, sleds, bicycles, and swings which were somehow I. Thinking of wholesome, worth provided for out of her meager - funds; the group socials of quiet, pen and pencil and co-recreational games she planned, the picnics, camping and outing trips; the thrilling joy she got from entertaining a group with her songs and dramatic readings. She is still alive and happy in her joyous life adventure, at this present minute off on a recreational trip, entertaining others, going surf bathing, singing her songs, getting her recreation by being happy and making others play —''a seventy-year-old adolescent." Because I have known this woman who has always lived recreation I have the courage to attempt to discuss the subject of recreation for mature women. HAVE yet to find a woman who thinks of herself as old—rather she thinks, if she considers the question at all, of herself as a girl. She has the same instinctive desires for fun, play, mental and social activi- - ties as she had in her childhood. The specific activities in which she participates should be carefully selected and tactfully presented, as she is still as shy and self-conscious about anything new as an eight-year-old. Activities must be presented which are recreational and too easy rather than those which involve fine techniques and savor of work rather than play. We can divide the kinds of recreation in which women of mature years are interested into five main divisions. Figure No. 1 shows these five phases of recreation and the relative value of each, according to the interest of mature women. Joseph Lee, formerly of the National Recreation Association of America, says: "The impulse to play is universal." Physical activities do not play as prominent a part in the recreation program for women as they do in the program for 236 Figure No. 1 youth. The specific physical activities for mature women should be carefully planned for recreational and health values. Any event which endangers health or physical fitness should be excluded from the women's program. Women are more interested in having fun by means of stunts, novelty races, non-intricate dances and games using large, free movements rather than in competing with other women in skill types of games and sports. Activities involving very little running should be used. THE physical kinds of recreation are divided into fields. First, the individual and dual events. Below is suggested a list of these activities. INDIVIDUAL AND DUAL PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES FOR WOMEN 1. Novelty Races and Contests. A. Egg and spoon race b. Lighted candle race c. With partner, one walk forward one walk backward and return race. Nail driving contest. Needle threading contest. Feather on paper plate race. Suitcase race. Potato race DQ rho RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE i. Balloon blowing contest j. Various water races and stunts k. Clothes pin race 1. Bean bag contests m. Walking forward, backward and sidewise races n. Imitative walk races o. Various types of ball throwing contests. Dual Games.. Archery. Bowling. Croquet. Shuffleboard. Horseshoes. Tennis. Golf. Archery golf badminton. Table tennis F. Paddle tennis. Tin can bowling m. Curling n. Bounce ball o. Clock golf — No one woman should attempt to participate in them all, rather she should select a few which would give her the most immediate enjoyment and satisfaction. "THE next list suggests some of the activities of the second type, group events. Women are, by nature, social; they prefer to be with congenial people when they play. Group events, when participated in with good companions, give joyous, healthful exercise, are not dangerous and are suited in every way to women, if well supervised. Many women like to join a group for reducing exercises but will stay with the group and the activity only as long as they are having a good time. GROUP PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES FOR WOMEN outings summer camps aquatics coasting skating horseback riding. Roller skating folk dancing old-time dances mSg mo BO op THE FOUNTAIN OF YOUTH j. Tap dancing k, social dancing 1. Gymnasium class m. Low organized games reducing exercises relays. Game skills volley ball walking "THE best known phase of recreation for women of mature age comes through creative activitfes. If they enter into these creative arts, free from strain, under no compulsion and utterly relaxed, they will get much joy and satisfaction from them. A list of crafts, music and dramatic activities which women really enjoy follows: rapos CREATIVE ACTIVITIES FOR WOMEN Crafts. Plain sewing. Fancy sewing hook and braided rugs. Quilting cooking. Gardening. Raising pets. Metal work leather work flowers. Silhouettes painting, drawing m. Sculpturing n. China painting o. Home decorating Music a. Music appreciation club. Orchestra string band. Chorus. Singing mothers group. Choral or choir group. Kitchen band. Music contest minstrels. J. Group singing Dramatics a. Tableaux b. Living statues c. Shadow plays 237. Vaudeville shows. Costuming amateur hours. Pageants h. Festivals i. Stunts j. Pantomime k. Playlets 1. One-act plays m. Marionettes n. Play writing o. Dramatic contests rho F all types of recreation, crafts give women the greatest thrill, satisfaction and feeling of success, for the smallest amount of effort. Hand skill and dexterity is the one basic skill that nearly every woman developed in her girlhood. She may not have learned to sing, dance, play active games or act, but she did learn to use her hands. In directing these activities it will be necessary for the leader to learn the background, skills and interests of the women in a given group and see that the unskilled woman starts with the simplest project and provide the most difficult crafts for the clever ones. In Oregon lives a woman whom I know very well. Her children are grown, she has always been an extremely busy individual, managing a splendid home and also finding time to care for a small needlecraft business. She has given up her business and at the present time would probably be a restless, unhappy, listless woman if she had not gone back to the craft she first learned as a small girl in a little old log house on a Canadian prairie. For the past several years this woman has made exquisite hooked rugs. She cuts, dyes and prepares her own material, designs her patterns, plans the colors and even makes the frames. The value of these rugs could not be estimated in dollars and cents. Year after year they take blue ribbons at the Oregon State Fair. The real 238 value lies, not in the rugs, but in the happiness and satisfaction which comes from having successfully made some beautiful object. NEARLY every woman has a small amount of fundamental skill and plenty of love, for music. Under wise leadership she may have joyous success in some artistic musical group. Even if a woman has had very little training, or none, she has, deep down within her, a real love of self-expression through music. Start with simple types of musical groups and lead from these into more difficult, really artistic achievements. Once a woman tastes the thrill of success, the joy of group endeavor, she will always enter these musical activities and find, therein, recreation; relief from strain and the spiritual uplift she needs to help her through the routine and monotonous drudgery which is so often her lot.
In the soul of nearly every woman lies the desire to be an actress. We find that many women like a means of self-expression through some form of dramatics. This can be accomplished in some recreation center, church or other organization. At the present time a play is being coached at one of the recreation centers in Idaho, in which six women, all sixty years of age or older, are playing the major parts.
Another phase of recreation, suitable for mature women, and a kind in which she gets relief from strain, worry and pent-up emotions, due to household drudgery, is social recreation. The next list suggests some of the forms of social life in which women get relaxation and enjoyment. Many women enter into clubs with such a serious purpose and under such a mental strain that it is leisure unwisely spent. Others enter into service and welfare work so earnestly that they need relief activities and socializers even during serious meetings and conventions.
SOCIAL ACTIVITIES FOR WOMEN. a. Finger and hand games. b. Coordination stunts. c. Circle mixer games. d. Progressive stunt parties e. Early American folk dances. f. Action and stunt songs. g. Quiet games. h. Observation games and contests i. World alertness games j. Pen and pencil games k. Social dance mixers l. Mental games m. Table games
Women, with their husbands and friends, can get a whole lot of nonsensical enjoyment out of social dance mixers and learning some of the Early American Folk and simple Square Dances.
Mental recreation is probably more important for matrons than any other group for which recreation programs are organized. Women are not so eager for strenuous physical activities; they realize that they need to overcome the handicap of time lost because of family duties, and also to improve their education. Those of us who are working with community and state recreation programs know that it is the mature women to whom we look in order to get the help needed in organizing, planning and developing a free, democratic, tax-supported recreation project, because these are the women who are eager to give time and effort to those things which are worth while. Women of middle or later years find their greatest joy in helping others secure health and happiness. Especially are they willing to help those who are poor or in need. They make wonderful volunteer workers on recreation programs.
A modern mother should realize that rest and pleasure are no longer considered stolen but are legitimate and necessary. She should, therefore, prepare a daily and weekly time budget which shall include time for planned leisure. She should use this planned leisure so that rest, relaxation and refreshment will come, hand in hand with healthful, stimulating, wholesome fun.
Dr. Hugh Woodward, of Utah, makes this statement: "Recreation comprises all those activities which deliver to the individual an immediate cash value in satisfaction."
Women have or can arrange to have leisure. Leisure time should not be spent in a motion picture theater, before a radio or in reading poor literature. All women wish to enrich their lives, develop poise, personality and character. If they become an active participator, self-development will result.
In conclusion, check yourself against the following list of questions. If you can answer "yes" to most of them you are probably wholesomely adjusted and a healthy, respected member of society.
1. Can you sing a song from memory?
2. Can you repeat a poem or a passage of prose?
3. Do you know how to play a table game, a quiet game, an active game?
4. Are you skilled in one sport?
5. Do you know something about one phase of nature?
6. Can you do well some type of handcraft?
7. Do you have a hobby?
8. Can you guide a group in some worth while recreational activity?