Outside Interests By Sara O. Moss side her husband, as she always did in spring and summer, showing him a new-blown rose here and there, or the pansy bed and the bleeding hearts. This little walk around the lawns had become quite a habit with the Fenstones prior to Thomas entering his high powered car and driving away to his business each morning. "Well! Said Patricia, stopping suddenly to stare at a moving van pulling into the driveway of the vacant cottage across the street. "I'll bet it's another big family! It certainly is Thomas! See that baby buggy they're unloading, and the tricycle and the wagon!" Thomas laughed heartily as he hurried to his car. "I'm late," he said. "Don't worry too much about the kids that family might not have." But Patricia did worry. The last family that had lived there, and had moved because the payments on the house were too high for a meagre income, had had boys. Lots of boys who ganged and played street games, like baseball and run sheep. Sometimes the big rough feet had tramped among Patricia's flowers to retrieye a stray ball. Once a window was broken, and often the young tikes hid in the expensive shrubs surrounding the Fenstone grounds. Boys were awful! A small car drove up to the cottage too, and as Patricia had surmised, quite a drove of youngsters tumbled out. "Thank goodness there's some girls,' said Patricia, hidden from view by her dense shrubs. "They're little too. Oh, there's a good sized one though, and there's a boy. Let's see, there?s two, three, four, five, six. That poor woman! I do hope she keeps them home." THE new family went about the usual tasks which moving involves, and after some days of strenuous labor, the cottage attained a livable appearance. The family seemed to settle themselves in the new surroundings without bother or trouble to anyone, nor did they find any excuses to call upon their neighbors, who lived in the expensive homes along the block. The windows of the little house were washed until they shone, and pretty curtains and potted plants adorned them. The screened porch too, looked inviting, with its bright rugs, wicker and pillows. "She must be quite a homemaker," Patricia told her husband one morning, as they walked over their grounds. "That house has never looked so clean, or so homelike before. But still, it will always be an eyesore in the neighborhood. It's so old-fashioned and the families that move in and out never seem to have enough money to buy paint. I wish it wasn't there." But Thomas cared little and gave no thought to the cottage, although Patricia's comments on her neighbors amused him greatly, but so long as the people didn't bother him, it did not matter whether the occupants of the shabby house painted it, or whether they had ten children or none. AFTER an interval of ten days, Patricia called on her new neighbors and found Mrs. Wesley to be a retiring little woman, but a charming one too. Her home was 280 orderly and neat and her inexpensive furnishings tastefully arranged to meet the requirements of her six children. Patricia found also, that Mrs. Wesley had no social aspirations in the neighborhood, and seemed perfectly content with life as she lived it?busy, healthy, and happy. "Poor thing!" thought Patricia. "One wouldn't think life could be worth living. No outside interests of any kind. I think I should go mad!" Still it was quite nice here. The cooling drink served by the oldest girl, who was twelve, was a lovely gesture of hospitality. Patricia was afraid she was going to like Mrs. Wesley and her family in spite of herself, and her prejudice of the little old cottage had eased into indifference for the present. "Well I must run along now," said Patricia. "I have so much to do today. I am serving on the committee of Conservation of National Resources, and we expect to have several meetings in the near future. I am busy getting material and speakers." "How interesting!" said Mrs. Wesley. "I have a sister, Nell, who does that very thing." But Patricia was moving along, feeling important as a public-spirited woman who was in a position to entertain even celebrities in her home because she was rich, because she had leisure. There was never anything she really enjoyed so much as having her picture snapped at the airport, meeting important figures who stepped from the planes.
So the late summer passed into autumn days, the two women having had few visits, probably because each was so busy; probably too, because their interests were so varied and far apart. Patricia was grateful that Mrs. Wesley had kept her children home. Still she had enjoyed those two little tykes who sometimes toddled across the street to her lawns. Such talkers! And that oldest girl was charming! One day in late autumn, Patricia was ringing Mrs. Wesley's doorbell. "Oh, Mrs. Fenstone! Such a surprise! Do come in." But Patricia had no time today. "I'm sorry I can't stay Mrs. Wesley, I'm so rushed. We're having our big meeting on Conservation tonight at the auditorium, and we're having a famous speaker from Washington, D. C. I shall probably be expected to meet her, and most likely have her to dinner." Patricia was out of breath, but she felt so important. Rather fun to let people know what prestige you held in the community. Then seeing Mrs. Wesley's tired face and work-worn hands, she said, "Perhaps you would like to come. I think you would enjoy it, you have to stay in so much." She was really sincere, for she liked Mrs. Wesley. Mrs. Wesley considered. "I'll see. Perhaps I can leave the babies with my husband." Patricia smiled warmly, and started down the steps, all but forgetting her errand. "Oh, I nearly forgot. I have a telephone message for you from your sister. She said it was Nell calling. She asked me to let you know she was in town and would be right out." Mrs. Wesley was taken aback, but happily surprised. "Oh not really! I can hardly believe it. I haven't seen Nell for two years! I'm sorry you had to bother though, Mrs. Fenstone. I wish we could afford a telephone, but you know how it is when the children are small.... To think Nell is here.... I'll have to change this dress if she's coming right out...." Patricia was glad to see her little neighbor so happy. She surely needed something to brighten her drab existence. Then she remembered her many duties for the day, and started down the path against the autumn wind with a hurried, "Try to come, Mrs. Wesley." It was then Mrs. Wesley thought of something. "Mrs. Fenstone," she called, "Nell must be...." But Patricia was half way home and did not hear her, so intent was she on meeting the famous Washington speaker, Mrs. Cowels. As she ran along to her home, she hoped the woman would arrive by plane. A plane made such a smart setting for a snapshot.
The auditorium was filled to capacity and Patricia, as chairman, looked regal, as she sat behind the banks of potted plants, lending charm and beauty to the affair. She was a little nervous though. The speaker had not arrived, only a message had come saying she would be on time. Patricia hoped so. An intelligent audience waited patiently for the meeting to begin. Then Patricia saw Mrs. Wesley enter the door. She did get here after all! Little home body! She's probably wondering what this is all about. But who is that distinguished looking woman with her? They look alike. Why that must be Nellie. They're coming right up in front, too. Well of all things! It's Mrs. Cowels! Patricia hardly heard what the woman said all evening. She was thinking of the little old cottage, the cottage she had said was such an "eye-sore" among the lovely homes along the block, yet it had welcomed the woman speaking; a woman who was known from coast to coast, and a woman whom Patricia had so urgently hoped to "cultivate." Mrs. Cowels was holding the audience spell-bound. "We talk about conservation. We plead with an adult public to build up the defenses we've torn down; defenses which will take three hundred years to rebuild. But it's our children to whom we must turn...."
Patricia felt lonely among all those people. She wanted to be home with all her beautiful surroundings and with Thomas. But home was sometimes lonely, too, with just Thomas. It was so quiet and so still. There should have been more in so large a house. What was the use? Her thoughts raced through her brain, commanding her, defending her, upbraiding her. She hadn't been fair with humanity, with the Wesleys, and with the cottage. She had been a poor neighbor. She could have tended those little tots once in a while. She could have loaned the oldest girl some books, and given all Mrs. Wesley's children the use of the beautiful pool in her back yard through the hot summer days. She had been striving for public acclaim, for praise and honor from the activities she called "outside interests," and had pitied Mrs. Wesley for having so little, yet now Patricia realized she had everything worth while. Patricia felt suddenly very tired, as the meeting dragged through to the end. She thanked the speaker, the committee and the audience. Out of courtesy she asked Mrs. Cowels and Mrs. Wesley if she could drive them home. To her surprise they accepted gratefully. When Patricia stopped at the cottage to let her occupants out, Mrs. Wesley graciously asked her in. "Run over and get your husband, and we'll have a bite of lunch. I know you and Nellie will have so much to talk about. Our husbands can at least talk cars and fishing." Patricia laughed, but said humbly, "You're so sweet Mrs. Wesley. You don't know what it means to me." Mrs. Wesley never did know, quite, what it had all meant to a new Patricia.