In The Ring With Father Time By H. C. Mortensen, General Manager of the Deseret Gymnasium
All the world's a Prize Ring, and all the men in the world are Prize Fighters. From the moment the doctor announces, "It's a boy," until the last round, you are in the ring and your opponent is the world's undisputed champion, Old Father Time. You have accepted no challenge, signed no contract nor agreed to any purse. You have set no place for the fight, posted no guarantee for your appearance, nor have you received permission from any state or commission to stage the fight. No matter how peaceful or law abiding you may be, how much you mind your own business, whether you like to fight or not, you are in the squared ring, giving or taking punches, with a scowl or a smile—for this is the Battle of the Centuries—every man's battle for life.
Your chief concern is to stay in the ring as long as you can, make the best showing you can—win, lose or draw. Most fights with Father Time last from forty to seventy rounds. Sometimes one goes to eighty, rarely to ninety, and only one in a million goes to one hundred. The number of rounds you stay in the ring and your condition when you come out, depends on the equipment nature provided you with, the care you take of that equipment, how well you live up to the rules of the game and your determination to succeed.
If your waist line out-runs the rest of your body and your wind fails, you had better consult your trainer, for these are red flags of warning. If your appetite fails and you don't listen eagerly for the dinner bell, you had better consult your doctor who will, no doubt, prescribe a more suitable diet and a necessary daily dozen. If your joints creak and you limp and groan with "rheumatiz" something has probably gone wrong with your blood and you need medical attention. If you are dull and lifeless, can't get your work done, don't have that sparkle in your eye and the glow of health on your cheek, you are neglecting that most important thing in your life, and for which there is no substitute—your good health—and the big fight will be very short.
Most men are completely deceived as to the ability, condition and skill of Father Time. He is invariably pictured, and believed by many to be, an old, thin, weak man, with a long, gray beard and sunken eyes—the picture of age and decrepitude. However, when you face him, you will find that he is a rugged, strong athlete, six feet six, weighing over two hundred pounds, with keen eyes, boxing skill, marvelous endurance and a real fighting heart. He never breaks training and is always in fighting condition. His habits are regular, he never neglects his diet nor misses his daily workouts. He needs no manager, no press agent, no sparring partners, no doctors, no trainers; he never loafs, rests nor rusts; but he is on the job at the same old stand every day in the year.
The strange thing about all of Father's matches is that he does not seem particularly eager to end the fight quickly, but is willing to let you stay in for a good long bout, especially if you put up any kind of a fight. But if you are weak, out of condition, sickly, careless or untrained he will soon put you out. Long experience has taught him all the tricks and fine points of the game. He is a good boxer, has a good knockout punch in both fists, is fast, aggressive, and knows just when to finish the job.
From the eighteenth to the thirtieth round you are sure you will win the fight. You have all the confidence in the world, need no advice, consult no manager, doctor or trainer, care nothing for training rules and are cocksure he can be knocked out in any round. There's blood in your eye and you are out for a kill as you rush in with wild swings, right crosses, upper cuts and a great assortment of haymakers, any one of which should end the battle. But somehow the "old fellow" weathers the storm, blocks the haymakers, ducks the swings, absorbs all you can land, hands back a few good punches on the jaw, a stiff poke on the nose, and generally seems to be as fresh and strong as he was in the first round, while you find yourself stalling and clinching and trying to hold on until the bell. A lot of cocksureness has gone at the end of that thirtieth round.
As the fortieth round progresses the old man seems to detect your weak points. He knows you have been smoking. He forces the fighting, keeps you running around the ring, and with your wind gone, soon has you over the ropes. You have been drinking, have no vitality and are in poor condition generally. He quickly drives you to the ropes with lefts and rights, and all that saves you from a knockout is the gong. That was an easy round for him but a tough one for you. You have been staying out late nights, breaking training rules, neglecting diet, sleep and rest. He seems to look right through you and sees these weaknesses. Knowing his own strength and fitness he goes merrily into the next round with complete confidence, soon has you groggy and then on your knees for the count of nine—and the bell saves you again.
When you reach the fiftieth round you begin to wonder whether or not you are ever going to put him out. You don't seem to have quite the confidence in yourself and your punches. Your wind is not as good as it was a few rounds back, your legs wobble and your muscles do not respond with the same speed. Your eyesight is not so good and there is not the same coordination between brain and muscle. Generally speaking you are somewhat on the fence. But you have not yet given up and are sure you will still be able to land that knockout. But the old fellow guards against that surprise and stalls it off with his usual perfect defense.
By the sixtieth round you begin to feel that if you can manage to stay in the ring and on your feet you will be doing pretty well. You are perfectly content to take it easy, you do not force the fighting. You are slow to leave your corner, do a lot of sparring, stalling and clinching. You cast appealing eyes toward the referee and quite often call for a foul. You drop to your knees and wait for the count of nine every time he lands. You protest that he hit below the belt; but the referee orders the fight to go on. The master boxer just waits and smiles. He knows the end is very near. You are glad to get into your corner at the end of this round.
With the aid of trainers and seconds you shuffle out for the seventieth round. You would like to stay on your feet this round as he might drop his guard and your chance to put one over might come. You do not feel like matching punches and are beginning to have greater respect for the man in the other corner. You realize more than ever that your training has been irregular, your condition bad. Instead of being in the pink of condition you have been pitifully weak and stale—in fact the old man seems to pity you and hesitates to finish the job. However, the bell sounds, you are in the middle of the ring, the crowd yells for a finish. When consciousness returns the fight is over, you are in an ambulance on the road to the hospital with the hearse following close behind.
After the last round Father Time jumped over the ropes and into his dressing room with hardly a scratch. A shower, a quick rubdown and he is ready to take on the next challenger. He looks as if he had just come in from a short run in the country. His eyes sparkle, his cheeks are red and he shows every evidence of perfect condition. When asked how he maintains such marvelous condition he says that he lives simply, keeps close to nature, eats wholesome food only, does not use tobacco, does not drink liquor, tea or coffee, keeps regular working and sleeping hours and has no worries. He declares that he is ready for the ring and waiting to take on all comers.
With John Citizen there is a different story. With great difficulty the doctors revived him. He was completely down and out. His face was battered and bruised, one eye closed, lips cut and swollen, miserable defeat written all over his face. He readily conceded that Time was a better man and said no one could stand against such strength and endurance. He had not employed the same methods of training and was not in the same condition as Father Time. He might have been more consistent in his training and mode of living so that he could have made a better showing and put up a better fight. He warned all challengers for the world's championship to profit by his experience and keep mentally awake and physically fit, for, said he: "the race is not to the swift nor the battle to the strong but he that endures to the end."