Notes From The Field By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
Eastern States Mission
Prior to the creation of the New England Mission a survey was made of the Eastern States Mission by Relief Society Mission President Grace S. Colton. Every branch from Boston to Washington, D. C., was included. This survey showed a fine field of labor prepared for Sister Eyring and Sister Evans. The broad scope of Relief Society was revealed. In some localities there were Visiting Teachers. The excellent work of the Class Leaders had increased the membership and been the means of accomplishing good missionary work. Some branches had made the enviable record of one hundred per cent annual dues paid for two years. People generously responded to the Relief Society Special Activity project and donated supplies and cash. The spirit of cooperation was expressed in sewing for Red Cross. Though many of the organizations were small, the attendance was regular. Music played quite a part and groups of Singing Mothers were organized. The Scripture reading project was conducted most enthusiastically. The Magazine subscriptions were carried to new high levels. The President urged all the branches to write the history of their work and bring their records up to date. The office is in receipt of the Eastern Ensign for February, 1938. This is a report of the Eastern States Mission with all the auxiliary work now in operation. The Relief Society is happy to acknowledge the excellent resume of its work under Relief Society President Priscilla L. Evans. The statistical report shows that all departments of the organization are in operation and the success of the work for the last year greatly in excess of the previous one.
Eliza Tillery
Nell C. Alleman, Relief Society President of the Baltimore, Maryland, Branch, reports the following: "The members of the Baltimore, Maryland Branch of the Relief Society are proud to have on the active roll Sister Eliza Tillery, shown in the picture holding a birthday cake presented to her at a party held in her honor on her ninety-third birthday, October 26. One of the leading broadcasting stations in the state, WFBR, announced her birthday three different times, and sent her flowers for being awarded the title that day of 'Captain of the Old Guard.'
"Sister Tillery, still remarkably strong of body and keen of mind, tells, with a twinkle in her eyes, of the progress of the Church in Baltimore, of the missionaries who have come and gone, and of interesting events in the history of the country back to pre-Civil War times in Maryland.
"Sister Tillery reads eagerly without glasses each issue of the Relief Society Magazine."
Logan Stake
The President of Logan Stake reports increased interest in all phases of Relief Society work. This includes attendance at meetings and all forms of activity. The following account of a project carried out in one of the smaller wards gives an example of the frugality and thrift of the women. To start the project an apron sale was held and from the proceeds, which the women reinvested, many things were accomplished. Magazine subscriptions were paid for, articles of clothing were reconditioned and sold, garden supplies were purchased, and materials for binding the Magazine, which was taught in the Work and Business meetings, were sold at a profit. Much good was accomplished and a tidy sum realized from the original investment.
Beaver Stake
In this Stake the Singing Mothers have been very active and their influence is felt in stimulating interest in Relief Society. The picture below is the cast of a group from the Milford Ward who presented the beautiful cantata "Bethlehem," during the last mid-winter holidays.
Raft River Stake
From the President of the Raft River Stake Relief Society word comes that the organization is enjoying its work very much and has started the year with fine hopes for a most successful season. The ward conferences have been held and the great objective has been to offer in these meetings a program that would improve the regular weekly meetings. A part of the program was a model Work and Business meeting and demonstration. It was greatly appreciated, especially by the Priesthood members, and was a concrete example of what Relief Society is doing. The wards have each been asked to conduct in turn an ideal Work and Business meeting in this department at Union Meeting. Every ward has exhibited finished work and is greatly interested in the new feature. The activity in the field of child health was very successful. Last summer the Relief Society arranged with local doctors to give physical examinations to the pre-school and school children. About 100 responded and had tonsils removed and other corrective work done. Those in the other wards came to Malta because the equipment was there and it was possible for them to return home in the evening. This two-day clinic was a great success and was a means of rendering much greatly needed service. A suitable home was used as a hospital and supplied with the equipment necessary. Since this time, a health unit has been organized consisting of Relief Society workers, with fine cooperation from the Parent-Teacher Association. Work is done under the supervision of the County nurses. After school started in the fall, a dental clinic was arranged for everyone needing help. This, too, was very satisfactory. The women and the County nurses give their time and service.
North Weber Stake
From this progressive Stake comes the following interesting account of some of the outstanding events of the Relief Society year's accomplishment: "Our most outstanding events of 1937 were the Field Day and the Christmas Pageant.
"The purpose of the Field Day was to demonstrate what had been accomplished by the Work and Business Department. Each of the fourteen wards of the Stake arranged a dinner table symbolic of a chosen subject, with arrangements, decorations, and menu, all conforming with the motif represented. They were judged on the following points: conformity, 20 points; neatness, 20 points; artistic arrangements, 20 points; color harmony, 20 points; general effect, 20 points.
"The West Weber Ward, under the direction of Sister Charlotte Green, chose the theme, 'Let Thy Light So Shine.' A miniature lighthouse formed the centerpiece. This ward tied for first place with the Slaterville Ward which used a Japanese motif. Wilson Ward, with a patriotic theme, and Marriott Ward, with an Hawaiian setting, were awarded second places. Third places were awarded to Harrisville Ward, with a Southern motif, and to Ogden Fifteenth Ward, with a Hobo Jungle Town idea. Honorable mention was made of Ogden Tenth Ward's Bridal Luncheon, and Ogden Third Ward's Blue and Gold display.
"The afternoon's activities were under the supervision of Stake President, Julia E. Parry, and the contest was directed by Erica L. Soderberg, Work and Business director.
"On the evening of December 29, 'The Life of Christ,' a pageant written and directed by Laura Moench Jenkins, was presented in the Weber County High School Auditorium. Scenes from the ministry of the Savior were portrayed in tableaux. Some of them were, 'The Babe of Bethlehem,' 'Jesus in the Temple,' 'The Beatitudes,' 'Jesus Blesses Little Children,' 'The Ten Virgins,' and 'Mary, Mother of Jesus, at the Cross.'
"The music was under the direction of Stake Chorister, Eliza M. Kerr, and Stake Organist, Julia A. Bingham. The text was read by Hulvia Upton."
Education is a controlling grace to the young, consolation to the old, wealth to the poor, and ornament to the rich.—Diogenes.
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS
THE GENERAL BOARD