Children's Reading By Florence Ivins Hyde No. IV—Romantic Period
"Could we give but one gift to every child, We should choose the love of books." —William Fredrick Bigelow.*
In the previous talks of this series we have attempted to discuss, briefly, the various interests of childhood in their relation to habits of reading and have given a few suggestions which might help to meet the demands of the periods up to 12 or 14. At about this time, a new type of thing must be supplied. The rougher instincts begin to soften and romance and sentiments begin to develop. Your daughter no longer wants to be a tom-boy and your son begins to take pride in his personal appearance. The crucial point in the guidance of children's reading during any period of life, lies in having certain books at hand at the psychological moment. For instance, it is a fatal thing to delay the first reading of Alice in Wonderland, to the reasoning years. Although the humor of the story cannot be appreciated until adulthood is reached, its imaginative value has made it a children's classic.
At this period the interest in physical prowess which has dominated your child makes place for stories of fiery idealism in which knights risk limb and life in loyalty to principle or in defense of some fair lady. At about 14, children begin to enjoy love stories and should have them. Some girls suffer real love sickness. This is Ellen Key's remedy. She says, "Boys will be attracted to girls. The thing to do is to satisfy this craving by giving love stories that are pure in tone and high in ideal, to make this feeling an elevating one rather than a debasing one." We can do this by tactfully leading them to delightful, wholesome stories, recent as well as old.
To guide their reading successfully, parents must get their point of view. At the period from 13 to 16 they will read what is interesting, not to you or me, but to them. More than ever before they want to select their own books. This is the time to place before them a variety of good things from which to choose.
At this age fiction seems to sway all else, but there are other books which will stand up against this overwhelming urge. Boys and girls alike show a tremendous interest in themselves and will welcome such books as "Making the Most of Your Looks," by Dorothy Stote; "Being a Friend," by Bertha Conde, for girls; "The High School Boy and His Problems," by T. A. Clarke; "Keeping in Condition," by H. H. Moore, for boys. At this age, too, they begin to want to know how to be successful. This is the function of biography. It is the moral element in history and serves two purposes. John Muir's story of his boyhood and youth, for boys, or Mary Austin's "Promised Land" for girls, are two of many that we may suggest.
Books of travel and adventure will also stand up against this fiction urge. The point is to get books with both action and adventure rather than books that are merely descriptive. Every boy will like Byrd's "Skyward" and most girls will be thrilled with the Japanese story of "The Daughter of a Samurai," by Sugimoto. Joseph Altsheler has now taken the place of Cooper. He takes the American boy into the wilderness making him realize his heritage in the history of his country. His appeal lies in three points—his deep love of nature, his ability to select subjects of human interest and a natural gift for story-telling. His stories may awaken an interest in Kipling, Stevenson, Dumas, Poe and Bret Harte.
Never forbid a book you think is not fit for your daughter to read. Psychologists tell us this is the surest way to create a desire for it. Take a chance on her not coming in contact with it and if she does, poke fun, with her, at its absurdity. Positive advice is so much better than negative! Call attention to a book you desire her to read by saying, "That is a fine story," rather than by saying, "Don't" of a bad book. As mothers, we become over zealous in our efforts to keep our children innocent. The point to bear in mind may be that if the atmosphere of the book is natural, moral and healthy it is wisdom to let a girl read of both the good and bad in the world, thus preventing the development of a morbid curiosity.
Lucile Fargo, a woman librarian and a student of children's tastes, says, "All you need to be sure of in fiction is that the story you give your boy or girl is well written, that it is true to life, and that it does not make crime attractive or immorality desirable."
It is possible to give the right thing even in this age when so many "popular" novels are flooding the market. A few shelves of books well chosen will be far more likely to give our young people the right start toward life and art than an expensive piece of furniture. Let us not begrudge the time this study will take. Mothers will then be doing a far more important thing than dusting furniture. Our sons and daughters are going to get their thrills somewhere. The real problem is to find out the sort they demand and feed them with the truth.
Books To Own "The Correct Thing," W. A. Stevens—etiquette for boys. "It's More Fun When You Know the Rules," Beatrice Pierce—for girls.