Hospitality Dr. Rose H. Widtsoe Department of Home Economics, University of Utah SPRINGTIME is here. The air has been thoroughly washed and is filled with that peculiar odor that comes only in the early spring. Nature is giving the great out-of-doors its spring cleaning preparatory to putting on its fresh, green garb. Crocuses, daffodils, hyacinths and many other early spring flowers are adding variety of color and perfume. The inside of our homes are likewise undergoing a change, the grimy walls and soiled window hangings are giving way to clean walls and freshened hangings. Rugs have been cleaned, floors, woodwork and furniture have been polished. Everything is clean and orderly. Instinctively at this time of year we think of our friends, and in our thoughts, crystallizes a desire to do something for them. The spirit of hospitality is in the air. Hospitality is so much a part of human nature that it seems to be instinctive. It came very early into the life of mankind. The spirit of giving was its chief characteristic. Throughout the ages it has mattered not whether it took the form of an elaborate, expensive feast given by tribal chiefs, the formal European dinner in honor of nobility, our elaborate occasional banquets such as characterize our Thanksgiving and Christmas dinners, or the sharing of whatever one has under the most humble conditions. There is no doubt but that the spirit of hospitality, entering into the darkness and confusion of early times and continuing to the present, has made its contribution to the development of civilization. "THROUGH the generations of the development of hospitality it has had as its central theme —sharing food. Later it came to include shelter. Breaking bread together under the roof of. One's own home has long since been a symbol of friendship. With the coming of Christ, great changes in the form of hospitality took place. Through His teachings of simplicity, kindliness and generosity, the extravagant, costly entertainments characteristic of the Greeks and Romans, gave way to the simple feast of the loaves and the fishes, the sharing of what-so-ever one had with those who had not. A splendid example of simple but wholesome hospitality has been set for us by the early Pilgrim Fathers, by the men and women who blazed the traiis on our many frontiers, by our pioneers who were held together by bonds of friendship and adversity. In modern life hospitality still plays an important role. It has assumed a variety of forms, but its chief characteristic is still closely connected with the sharing of food. The form of food service is immaterial, the spirit of giving is the main consideration. HE art of home-making has made wonderful progress in every detail. The home owner is taking greater pride in the kind of house, its setting, and its interior and exterior decorations. 256 Tandscape gardening and improvement of grounds has never before received so much consideration. With hospitality in the private home has come pride in doing whatever is done, on a higher standard than ever before. Since much of our home hospitality has assumed the form of luncheon or dinner service, the desire to do this well, to conform to conventions in so far as it is practical, has become very pronounced. In an effort to assist those who have this desire and who are not familiar with many of the accepted conventions the author has drawn heavily upon these rules of table service, particularly as compiled by society's outstanding authority, Emily Post. Happily the modern trend is still further towards simplicity. The strictly formal dinner service has its place in society, but the occasions for such service are becoming fewer and fewer. The spirit of hospitality, the friendliness and charm may characterize the entertainment no matter how elaborate or how humble it may be. Types of Dinner Service. THERE are three distinct classifications of table service which automatically place the dinner service in its proper place. First, the strictly formal or European service in which every detail is studied, from the selection of the guest list, to be sure that all will be congenial, through the thoughtful selection of a suitable menu, the faultless laying of the table, the skillful service of the food, and last but not least, a charming hostess who has perfect poise, tact, understanding and graceful manners. The second or semi-formal dinner, spoken of as RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the American service, permits many modifications of the formal service. It may be very formal or it can be adapted to whatever is practical and sensible in terms of the family's particular circumstances. The third type of service or the family style is without the help of a waitress, where everything is served by the hostess at the table. A consideration of the formal service will give one a foundation upon which to build and to modify according to one's facilities. While this service is not so generally used, it serves as a model in most details. Formal Dinner Service. The Guest List. HE responsibility of every hostess is to bring together only people who are congenial. The finest type of entertainment may be spoiled by discordant spirits. The number of guests should be limited to conveniences of space and equipment. Custom no longer requires written dinner invitations, except the strictly formal ceremonious dinners. Telephone invitations are perfectly in order. If at the last moment one or more of the guests has been under the necessity of sending regrets, which may be done by telephone, it is permissible to telephone an intimate friend and ask if she will do you a favor by filling a place at dinner. In this case the hostess does the telephoning herself. The friend is rather bound by good manners to accept if possible. The Menu. HE menu is thoughtfully prepared to preserve balance, palatability and ease of service. No season of the year offers greater possibilities than springtime. HOSPITALITY Such a variety of fresh, green growing things, vegetables and fruits galore from our neighboring more tropical states; spring fries, spring lamb with its mint sauce and fresh green peas! Now that society has decreed that an accepted menu today must under no circumstances include more than four or five courses, it is an easy matter to decide upon a variety of menus that will be attractive. A five course dinner will include: 1. A fruit cocktail or a soup. 2. Fish or Entree. 3. Roast or other meat. 4. Salad. 5. Dessert. If a hostess wishes to serve both a fruit cocktail and a soup she may omit the fish or entree. A four course dinner would also omit the entree. The fruit cocktail may be almost any combination of fresh or canned fruits. The soup will be clear, either a bouillon or consomme, never a rich heavy soup for a course dinner. The meat will usually be roast spring lamb boned and rolled or a crown roast of lamb, boned capon, or fillet mignon. Highly flavored or unusual meats should not be served at a company dinner. Two vegetables not including potatoes are desirable. New peas, buttered beets, string beans cut in thin slices and cooked uncovered, and carrots are among the favorites. Potatoes may or may not be served, but if served, pains should be taken to prepare them in an attractive manner. The common potato has many possibilities. The salad course lends itself to an unlimited choice, it must however not be a heavy salad after a meat course. Relish vegetables such as lettuce, watercress, raw spinach, green peppers, etc., 257 accompanied with fresh tomatoes, cooked string beans, raw fresh peas, pickled beets, grated carrots, or any of the fresh raw or canned fruits make delicious salads. A French dressing is more appropriate for such a salad than mayonnaise. Frozen desserts are always in good taste for a dinner service and should be served without accompaniment unless it be a small service of sponge or angel cake or a wafer. Pie is not considered an appropriate dessert for a formal dinner. Setting the Table. EMILY POST says that the one unbreakable rule in table setting is that everything on the table must be geometrically spaced, the table must be set straight, the silence cloth must be smooth, the tablecloth, if of white damask, will be laid with the middle crease in a straight unwavering line down the center of the table. If the cloth is of lace or embroidery see that it is put on straight and is right side up. As to the propriety of using lace or embroidery tablecloths for a dinner service, the best authority says that in a lowceilinged, beautifully decorated room with a highly polished table, they may be used. The tablecloth of white damask, however, is always in good taste for a formal dinner. Next in order is the centerpiece, usually a flower arrangement or it may be fruit or an ornament of silver, glass or china which needs no flowers. Whatever the centerpiece, it must be in the exact center of the table and low enough so as not to obstruct the view from one end of the table to the other. The places are set at least two feet from plate center to plate center. One must allow 258 sufficient elbow room and also room so that dishes may be passed without danger of spilling food. The service plates which are always used with a formal service, are equally spaced around the table. The silver is then placed in the order in which it is to be used. The salad fork is placed on the left of each plate and nearest to it with the handle towards the edge of the table and prongs up; the meat fork is placed next, then the fish or entree fork if one is needed. On the right of the plate and nearest to it is the steel-bladed meat knife, then the silver fish knife if one is needed, and then the soup spoon and next the oyster fork or grapefruit spoon. Not more than three forks and three knives should ever be placed on the table at one time. Emily Post says that tarnished silver should never be used; that it is just as poor taste to use dull, tarnished silver as it is to use a wrinkled table-cloth. Additional silver is put on the table just preceding the course with which it is to be used. The water glass which is a goblet or tumbler is placed directly above the knives, at the right of the plate. If other glasses are needed they are placed at the right of the water glass running obliquely towards the edge of the table. Dinner napkins are folded square and laid flat in the service plate. If the napkin is very large the sides of the square fold may be tucked under. Napkins are placed at the left side of the plate only in semi-formal dinners when there is limited service and it is necessary to put food on the table. Bread should not be put in the napkin as was formerly done. Bread and butter plates are never put on a formal dinner table. The place cards should be put on the napkin in the center of the plate. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE If candlesticks are to be used there should be four placed at the four corners about half-way between the edge and the center of the table, or two candelabra may be used, placed at either end halfway between the end of the table and the centerpiece. If the candles are used without shades, which is the accepted style at present, the candlesticks or candelabra should be tall, carrying candles tall enough to carry the flame above the eyes of the guests. Dishes, bowls or ornaments are placed at the corners of the table hetween the candlesticks and centerpiece. Such dishes may hold'candy, fruit or fancy cakes. Salted nuts do not belong in any dishes which remain on the table after it is crumbed. Properly nuts are put on the table either in two larger dishes or in small individual containers at each place. These are always removed with the salt and pepper pots after the salad course. The expression from "soup 'to nuts" does not apply to a formal dinner. The custom of serving ntits and raisins after the dessert applies only to an informal dinner. If the table is very large and appears rather bare, flowers in smaller vases may be used in addition to the center piece. Pepper pots and salt cellars should be put at every other place. Olives and celery are passed by the waitress during the soup course. Pickles have no place in a correct formal dinner menu. Announcing the Dinner. WHEN all is in readiness, the food ready to be served, the candles lighted, the waitress goes up to the hostess or catches her eye and says quietly, "Dinner is served." The place cards being on the table, the hostess does not direct HOSPITALITY her guests where to sit. Ina semi-formal service the hostess stands at her place and directs the seating by saying, "Mrs. Brown, will you sit at the right of the host, etc." When the guests enter the dining room for a formal dinner, the host will seat the guest of honor, if it is a woman, at his right and in like manner each gentleman will hold the chair of the lady on his right. The gentleman of honor will be seated at the right of the hostess. Correct Service of a Formal Dinner. IN every strictly formal dinner service, whether there are few or many being served, the routine is the same. In such a service no food is ever placed on the table, except ornamental dishes of fruit and candy. The meat is carved in the kitchen, vegetables are passed and returned to the side-table. From the setting of the table until it is cleared for dessert, a service plate must remain at each place. The relish course which may be oysters or clams are served on a small plate which is placed on the service plate. The plate holding the fish or fruit cocktail served in stemmed glasses, is placed on the service plate. At the end of such courses the small plate is removed leaving the service plate in place. The soup is served in the same manner except that when this course is removed the service plate is removed with the soup plate and a hot plate is immediately exchanged for the two taken away. The dessert plate is placed directly on the tablecloth or on a china plate. The order of service decrees that the hostess shall be served first but Emily Post says this is extremely rude. However, the lady at the foot of the table is 259 served first and the dishes are passed to the right. With a second service the lady at the host's right is served first and the service proceeds to the right. As soon as the guests are seated and the first course is in place, the waitress goes to the right of each guest and fills the water glasses leaving them in their position at the point of the knife and using a folded napkin to catch the drop. As soon as the soup is served, the rolls are served from a basket. The old fashioned silver cake basket is ideal or a shallow wicker basket may be used. A napkin is placed in the bread container with the corners brought up over the rolls. A guest helps himself, laying the roll on the tablecloth. Bread and butter plates are never used at a formal dinner. Rolls should be passed frequently and the water glasses kept filled. All dishes are presented to the guests, held flat on the waitress's left hand—hot dishes require a folded napkin under them. A heavy meat platter is held in the left hand and steadied with the right hand. Each dish is supplied with the necessary serving silver. Usually this is a serv- - ing spoon and a fork. It may, however, be only a spoon. A second helping is never offered at a strictly formal dinner, so the serving dishes are taken directly to the kitchen after they are passed. The serving table is a half way station between the dining table and the kitchen. It holds extra cold plates, extra silver, the dessert plates, and the finger bowls. At all dinners, formal or otherwise, the table is cleared for dessert. The salad plates, salt and pepper dishes, unused silver and nut dishes are taken off on a tray—without a doily—and the crumbs are brushed off each place at the table with 260 a folded napkin into a tray or plate held under the edge of the table. A frozen dessert—ice cream—is the most popular American dessert. The glass plate for the ice cream, is placed on a china plate, with or without a doily between them. The glass finger bowl to match is brought in on the glass plate with the dessert spoon and fork on either side. The finger bowl is less than half filled with cold water. The guest lifts the finger bowl off and sets it just in front of his plate. The ice cream is served on the glass plate, after which the glass plate is removed and the china one left in place. The finger bowl may have a few violets or other small flowers put in. It; but never a piece of lemon. There should be a waitress for every six persons served and a complete service for each waitress, otherwise food gets cold before all the guests are served. Dishes are never passed from hand to hand at a formal dinner. People may pass nuts or sweets near by but not circling the table. At the end of the dinner, when everyone is finished eating, the hostess rises and the guests quickly follow. Ig is a gross social error to be late to a dinner engagement. After waiting twenty minutes past the announced dinner hour, the dinner is served. When the late guest arrives he goes up to the hostess and apologizes for being late. The hostess remains seated and the guest merely shakes hands quickly in order that all the men at the table need not rise. The late comer starts with the course that is being served. The Semi-Formal or American Service. THE one detail that distinguishes the formal from the semiformal American service is that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE there is no carving by the host at the table or serving by the hostess. In the American service the host carves at the table. In the formal service the carving is done in the kitchen, the meat is arranged on a platter and passed by the waitress to the left of each person who helps himself. In the American Service the meat is placed on a platter and set directly in front of the host who carves and serves the hot plate that is placed before him by the waitress. The waitress takes up the plate with the right hand, immediately replacing it with a hot plate with the left hand; she then goes to the one who is to be served as designated by the host, picking up the service plate or used plate and placing the served plate in its place. She then goes to the side table and leaves the soiled plate, getting a fresh hot plate, returning to the host and repeating the procedure until all are served. This service is usually simplified by putting the stack of hot plates in front of the host and the waitress lifts each plate as it is served and takes it to the person designated. When all have been served she passes the vegetables. The soup and entree are served by the waitress. The water glasses are filled on the table and bread, relishes, etc., are passed by the waitress. This service may be still further simplified by placing the soup tureen and stack of soup plates in front of the hostess. The waitress carries the service to each person in turn. The water is on the table, and the bread and butter on each bread and butter plate before the guests are seated. The maid removes the soup course two plates at a time, stacks them quietly on the serving table and then removes the tureen. She brings in the stack of hot dinner plates and sets them in front of the host who serves the plate with meat, stuffing, gravy, etc., and hands it either to the right or left and it is passed on to the person designated. No service plates are used with this service. Meantime the waitress brings in the vegetables and passes to the left of each person who has been served with meat. She also serves bread and keeps the water glasses filled. The salad and dessert are served by the hostess and passed by the waitress.
HOSPITALITY
The American Service Table Setting.
The table cover may be what you please, damask, tablerunners or doilies with candlesticks or candelabra for evening light. The placing of the silver is the same as in the formal service. The service plate is used in the informal service only when it is to be used to set another service on. Otherwise each place is left plateless when the courses are removed.
Luncheon Service.
The table is laid in much the same way as for a dinner with a few exceptions. Candles have no place on a luncheon or breakfast table unless they are really needed for light. The table cover is of lace, embroidery, or colored damask. Doilies, mats, or runners may be used. The decorations may be the same as for a dinner. If the luncheon is formal, service plates are used. The silver is the same as for dinner. The napkin is smaller than the dinner napkin and is folded in a square and laid on the service plate. When service plates are not used it may be placed on the table at the left of the place. The bread and butter plate is used at a luncheon. It is put at the left of each place just above the fork. Butter may be put on the plate before the meal is served, or it may be passed. Hot breads are an important feature of luncheons. These hot breads are passed by the waitress as often as they are needed. Bread and butter plates are removed just before the dessert is served, also the salt and pepper dishes. The formal luncheon service is exactly the same as a formal dinner. The carving is done in the kitchen and no food is placed on the table except ornamental dishes, of fruit and candy. The table is cleared and crumbed before the dessert. The luncheon menu is seldom more than four courses which consist of fruit or soup in cups, a light entree of eggs or shell fish, meat and vegetables, salad and dessert. The soup must always be served in a cup, preferably a two-handled cup and it may be eaten with a teaspoon or bouillon spoon, or drunk from the cup. The soup must always be a light soup such as chicken or clam broth with a spoon of whipped cream on top, or strained chicken, or tomato broth. An informal luncheon may cut out one course and simpler dishes may be served. A luncheon should always include one hot dish. There are many other food services that are attractive such as buffet suppers, breakfasts, and teas, but space will not permit further discussion.
The selection, preparation and service of food is a big responsibility which cannot be left to tradition. It requires painstaking effort in the fields of Science and Art together with experience in developing the necessary skills, to fully meet this responsibility. A woman can possess no finer accomplishment than to be able to select food which will insure adequate nutrition, cook it in such a manner as to preserve its nutritive value and increase its palatability and its digestion and to serve it attractively. If this can be successfully done for one's family, it can be done with ease and grace for one's friends.