
VOL. XVIII FEBRUARY, 1931 No. 2 EDITORIAL An Endless Quest knowledge, a ceaseless striving to attain to higher and better things. While childhood is the time of most rapid development and while the acquisitive powers become less active with the oncoming years, the normal individual learns from the cradle to the grave. Indeed one of life's greatest boons is the opportunity it offers for learning. It is unfortunate that most of us do not seize the opportunities offered and make the most of them as we should. History's pages are replete with illustrations of those who under untoward circumstances have forged ahead and reached the heights. Michael Angelo, when old and blind, groped his way into the gallery of the Vatican. After feeling the torso of Phidias he said, | IFE is an endless quest for "Great is this marble, greater still the hand that carved it; greatest of all the God who fashioned the sculptor. I still learn. I still learn." ODAY we are surrounded with a wealth of books. Lincoln would walk miles to borrow a treasured volume and pore over it by the light of a pine knot. Darwin, working under conditions that would make most people feel helpless invalids, produced works that have been treasured ever since. Helen Keller, deaf, dumb, and blind, has attained scholarship away beyond what most wunhandicapped have reached. Elizabeth Barrett Browning wrote very fine poetry while suffering intense physical pain. Louisa M. Allcott wrote charming stories, spite of arduous toil and privation. EDITORIAL Milton's blindness precluded outside interests and he devoted his talent to writing his immortal "Paradise Lost." Bunyan, incarcerated in prison, wrote his ''Pilgrim's Progress." Most of us only touch the outskirts of our possibilities. The handicapped ones who have reached such great heights and have rendered such signal service in spite of their handicaps show how much more those with their senses and faculties unimpaired should accomplish. Einstein says, "The man who Lil leads the most successful lite is he who keeps on learning the longest ?the man for whom every experience is a new building stone. I do not refer to the mere gathering of information, but to the ability to take to oneself knowledge and experience and to use them. That man is always enlarging his universe." Happy are they who go steadily forward, learning here a little, there a little, who comprehend today what was hidden yesterday, who are ever enlarging their universe. The Indian WE believe no people have cause for such deep and sincere interest in the Indians as do the Latter-day Saints for they know whence they came, why they are in the condition they are in at the present time, and that they are in the future to become a "white and delightsome people." We present in this number several articles dealing with the Indian, and hope that our readers will interest themselves in the red man and do what they can to further his welfare. We believe the near future will show many remarkable finds by archaeologists who are delving in ruins on the American continent. We suggest that it would be wise to clip reports from newspapers and magazines and file them for future use. Cee men outstanding in public life today have Indian blood in their veins. Two notable examples are Vice President Curtis, and Will Rogers. The latter is one of the most widely read writers in the United States. Daily he has a few lines in the newspapers that command the attention of the reading public. He takes up things that are uppermost in the minds of people, and "hits the nail on the head.'' We give the following excerpt to show his, philosophy and his style: "Everybody is saying that the trouble with the country is that people are saving instead of spending. Well, if that's a vice, then I am Einstein. Since when did saving become a national calamity? I know it's terrible for a non-authority like me to tell you to go contrary to expert advice, but I am telling you if you got a dollar to soak it away, put it in a savings bank, bury it, do anything but spend it. Spending when we didn't have it put us where we are today. "Saving when we have got it will get us back to where we was before we went cuckoo. "Yours, "Will Rogers." A GROUP OF LAMANITE SISTERS, LOS ANGELES BRANCH, MEXICAN MISSION Elder Anton Cannon, at right, back row; Elder Huber, at left, front row; Mrs. Foley, center, back row. Response of the Lamanite Sisters To Poem by Mrs. Ellen L. Jakeman, Relief Society Magazine, Vol. XV, jpage 160 By S. T. Brimhall Foley We are daughters of Laman, returning with gladness, Our long tresses braided, unbarbered, unshorn.. We have thrown off the mantle of sorrow and sadness And rejoice that the Day of our freedom is born. We have waited, for ages the "White Man's appearance," But now from the Heavens we know He has come; His Gospel rewards all our suffering and patience; Its Heralds, anointed, are bringing us home. His Spirit has fallen upon us with blessings, Our souls are rejoicing in gladness and song; We know that its power has transformed our beings? Against all temptation is making us strong. We love that sweet promise once made to our fathers,? Lo! Lo! The Remnant of Joseph returns to the fold! For this Day the archives were laden with treasures, And histories of nations were penciled on gold. We cherish the Record that comes from Cumorah, Untangling the thread of our lineage and kin; We love the great names, the good words, of those writers, And hope that salvation: with them we shall win. The kings and the queens each appointed by Heaven, Are watching our footsteps and teaching us grace; With theirs in the temples our voices are ringing That truth has come forth to enlighten our race. We are daughters of Laman,. Returning with gladness, Our long tresses braided, unbarbered, unshorn; We are singing hosanna while reaping the blessings Predicted by prophets since Time's early morn. We rejoice that our fathers were children of Jacob And wrote all their' doings on tablets of gold? That the great Day has come for the feast of the righteous, When the children of Lehi may dine with the fold.
