Notes to the Field Suggestions for the Seventeenth of March Celebration ACH year as our anniversary approaches, the requests begin to come into the office for suitable material to be used in programs for the 17th of March. We have the following references for anniversary programs: "First Minutes of Relief Society," January Magazine, 1915, page 20; "Instructions of the Prophet Given at Nauvoo,' March Magazine, 1915, page 91; "Object, Aims and Brief History of Relief Society,' March Magazine, 1915, page 111; "Sketches of the First Five General Presidents," March Magazine, 1920, page 127; "Sketch of President Clarissa S. Williams," July Maga— gine, 1921, page 378; "Story of the Organization,' March Magazine, 1919, page 127; "Our Anniversary," March Magazine, 1921, page 137; "Relief Society Teaching," December Magazine, 1916, page 668; "National Woman's Relief Society, 1842-1925", March 1925, page 115; "Historical Events in the Relief Society," August, 1927, page 389; "Sketch of President Louise Y. Robison," January Magazine, 1929, page 3.. It is suggested, with this material, that many of the sisters have, in their local communities, most dramatic events that would make excellent material for programs, and we feel that it is altogether fitting and proper that the pioneer sisters be honored in this way, and their deeds and their struggles recalled by their descendants. We therefore suggest to our organizations everywhere to look into their own community history, and present some of the outstanding events in the lives of pioneers. So many interesting happenings in the gathering of the wheat, or the settlement of the various communities, the organization of the Relief Society, and all those things that have gone to make up the story of our great organization, afford excellent material for programs. It is quite in keeping with the spirit of the day that we use this and some of the finest plays produced are the folk stories of pioneer days, the settlement of the West, and the great achievements of our fathers and mothers. THE first organization of the Relief Society might be dramatized. The one-act play, "Careers" by Linda S. Fletcher, which appears on page 80 of this number of the Magazine, is suitable for an annual day entertainment. Te question as to new songs for special occasions is one not always easily answered. In the new psalmody or "Latter-day Saints Hymns", is found a beautiful hymn particularly fitting to be sung on the 17th of March. It is number 377 "Oh, Blest was the Day When the Prophet and Seer." It speaks of the organization of the Relief Society in this dispensation by the Prophet and Seer, and also what would be expected of the Daughters of Zion. The words are by Sister Emily H. Woodmansee, one of the early writers of the Church. From her pen has come some of the choicest verses which have been set to music. Our beloved Brother Evan Stephens composed the music. This would be a splendid congregational song and could easily be learned by the 17th of March. Try it.. Notes from the Field Reorganizations: SINCE last October Conference S the following stakes have reported a reorganization in their Relief Society. Cache stake, Mrs. Lizzie B. Owen, released, Mrs. Lula Y. Smith, appointed president; Oneida stake, Mrs. Nellie P. Head, released, Mrs. Anna R. Hawkes, appointed president; Taylor stake, Mrs. Georgina O'Brien, released, Mrs. Julia E. Ririe, appointed president; Union stake, Mrs. Evelyn R. Lyman, released, Mrs. Josephine Hanks, appointed president. We extend our greetings to the new presidents, and pray for the blessings of the Lord upon them in the duties they have assumed. In the retirement of these sisters from office, the General Board, as well as all the sisters of the organization, acknowledge a great debt of gratitude to them for their untiring service in the cause. Their zeal for the work, their intelligent grasp of the scope of Relief Society and its full message, their sympathetic understanding of the spirit of their calling, made them real leaders from whom the general organization always received the heartiest cooperation, and their stakes took rank among the most forward-looking in the whole Relief Society organization. We are grateful to them for their services in the past, and our love and our prayers for their future health and happiness accompany them. Hyrum Stake: 6 ae picture is of a cast who very successfully presented the comic drama "Sewing for the Heathens." It was an entertainment given by the Relief Society stake board for the ward Relief Societies of the stake. The cast of the drama was composed of members of the Hyrum Second Ward Relief Society. The play was the source of much amusement, and a very successful entertainment. CAST OF "SEWING FOR THE HEATHENS" 108 Tongan Mission: ISTER FLOY B. CUTLER, president of the Relief Society of the Tongan Mission writes: 'Pérhaps a few words about the Relief Society work in the Tongan mission, Friendly Isles, will be interesting. While we do not have a Relief Society organization in all the branches of the Church throughout the mission, there are, in all, ten organizations in the three districts: four in Tongatabu; four in Vavau; and two in Haapai. These organizations are all presided over by native sisters and with native members making a total membership of 122. The sisters are diligent in the Relief Society work, and are willing and anxious to assist and care for the sick and anyone in need, members, or those from the outside alike. They are glad of an opportunity of helping the missionaries in their labors here. They respond readily and willingly to any call for help. We have just purchased for the Tongatabu district, enough sacrament glasses, and by making our own trays of polished wood, will furnish every branch in the district with an individual "sacrament set. The money for this has been contributed by the sisters of their own accord. Very few of these people speak or understand English. It is difficult for us to follow the general program as outlined in the Relief Society Magazine, and all the lessons that are used must be translated from the English into the language of our sisters here, some of the courses of study are not adaptable to this people. We are, however, following the Book of Mormon lessons, a study in which these people take very much interest. Some of our Saints are familiar with the Samoan language, and as we have the Samoan Book of Mormon, the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE lessons may be used to great advantage. We make one lesson each month from the Teachers' Topic, and have a work day and one testimony meeting. The sisters always look forward to these, as they are anxious to take advantage of every opportunity of bearing their testimony of the Gospel and the blessings they receive. In general the work is in good condition, and I am happy for the opportunity of laboring here among these people. Words cannot express the joy and satisfaction that comes from missionary service, for the great plan of this work is service." Tahitian Mission: EWS from another one of our far distant missions comes to us in the form of a report from our Relief Society president, Sister Marguerite S. Burbridge. A most interesting report of the conference on October 5, 1930, at which the Relief Society presented a-little play entitled "Hungry Souls Satisfied," was received. The little play is published in "A Sheaf of Home-made 'Pageants and Plays" for use in the European Mission, but which was changed so that the characters were all women, and the little play could be nicely presented by the sisters of the Tzhitian Mission. They learned their parts well, and presented it in a very able manner. They looked very lovely in their pretty new dresses, which they had made themselves. There were no stage facilities at all, but one was improvised on the stand in the meeting house. Thus making a garden effect. A latticed summer house in the middle of the stand was constructed of cocoanut leaves. This had a pretty pink climbing vine running all over the lattice, with ferns and flowers over the entire stand, giving the appearance NOTES FROM THE FIELD 109 TAHITIAN of a garden. Between the first and second acts, the sisters sang in English "I Have Read of a Beautiful City," after which the president of the Relief Society presented the branch with two lovely sacrament cloths, which the Relief Society sisters had hemstitched and embroidered. Between the second and third acts a guitar duet and solo were given. At home this might not seem so very much, but here, where there are a very few people, especially natives, who can read music, it was quite an achievement. There is only one girl in the branch who has any knowledge of music, and her's is somewhat limited. Everyone who attended the meeting said it was very successful as it is the first time that women had taken full charge of a Sunday evening conference. The sisters of the branch were very much pleased with the success of their undertaking. Northcentral States Mission: ISTER PHOEBE M. WELL. ING, president of the Relief Society of this mission writes of many interesting experiences among the sisters of the Northern States and MISSION the Canadian part of the mission where she has visited. To quote Sister Welling: "I am happy to become acquainted with each set of officers, and be able to visualize them in their working conditions. It is putting it mildly when one says they are the very 'salt of the earth. I could cry tears of joy over the noble efforts some of them are making. All the Relief Society organizations are getting ready for their year's work, and are having meetings at the homes of the home-bound and ill. Each organization had contributed to a fund to assist in reestablishing the headquarters of the Berthold Indian Reservation. The elders are already there fixing up the buildings, and getting things in shape. Our Wolf Point Indian branch is doing so well it may be we can organize a Relief Society there. I am thrilled with all my work, and thank my Heavenly Father constantly for this great privilege. One year has already gone, and I have hardly thrust my sickle in, it seems." All over this mission the sisters are prepared and only await the coming of President Welling and the EIders to organize the mission Relief Society branches.
