Thy Country Shall be My Country
By Edna Harker Thomas
For generations the McGregors had lived in Scotland. Nobody ever dreamed of their living anywhere else until now. But times were hard and jobs were scarce and so Father McGregor argued with his protesting family, "Me and Jimmie are not enough men, even if Jimmie is big, to feed and clothe eight lassies." So the big family moved to Liverpool, and there Kathleen, sixteen, and Maggie, fourteen, got places in a factory. Their father obtained a better paying job too, but even then the mother had a hard time "making both ends meet." Looking out from the factory windows where Kathleen and Maggie worked could be seen the big passenger ships as they steamed in and out of the harbor from all parts of the world. One noontime, while they were eating their scanty lunch, Kathleen astonished Maggie with, "Sis, we will never get anywhere staying in this city. We will always be factory girls, earning our six or eight shillings a week. I can't stand this humdrum, cooped-up existence. I am going to Canada as soon as I can get enough money to go there." "Why Canada?" asked Maggie. "Because, as English subjects, we can get in that country more easily than other places, that's all. Besides, Mrs. Smith lives there and I will give her a chance to keep her promise." The family was consulted, they agreed and the grind began. A little bank was placed on the shelf. Every penny that could possibly be spared was dropped in. Even Jimmie, from his shoe shining earnings, dropped a penny or two in oftener than Kathleen knew. He loved his pretty, curly-headed, brown-eyed sister and he wanted her to be happy. It took a year to save enough for Kathleen to go. The bank was emptied, but it would stay in that same place, for the same purpose for, if Kathleen thought best, the family would follow some day. A steerage passage, combined with homesickness and loneliness, made Kathleen happy to see the shores of quaint old Montreal. But she was yet far from her destination. Mrs. Smith, whom she had met at church in Liverpool, lived in Lethbridge, way out west where the distances were great and the grain grew taller and more golden in the harvest time. Her friend had said that she would try to get Kathleen a position if she ever felt like coming to Canada. But she little thought, when the promise was given, that Kathleen would ever find courage enough to have that promise fulfilled. "Why didn't you write me that you were coming, child-alive," she said when Kathleen finally reached her home. Kathleen's only reply was, "Because I was never sure that I was going to make it myself." Mrs. Smith had no need for Kathleen but, after considerable hunting around, she found a lady who said that she could use her at least until harvest time. The wages would be small but she would teach Kathleen how to keep house—something she knew little about—and she would allow her to go to school.
THY COUNTRY SHALL BE MY COUNTRY 95
Kathleen liked school except when the boys teased her because of her Scotch accent. Many a time she went alone and cried. "My Scotch isn't any worse than their Canadian, and I don't make fun of them." When vacation time came, Kathleen was stranded again. Sometimes, she wondered if she had done right in leaving her loved ones. No one really cared for her here. Maybe it was wrong to think that she could be happy in a country so different from Scotland—the land she loved so dearly. Canada was so big and no matter which way she turned in Lethbridge she could see nothing but sky. How she hated it!—-the never-ceasing wind! It blew every day in the year, it seemed to her. She found herself wishing that it would blow her back to her loved ones, instead of just making her lonesome and homesick. Her money was low. She must find work, so when a lady, with twin babies, wanted her to be a nurse girl out on their ranch, Kathleen accepted, not from choice, but from necessity. As they rode out to the ranch, she thought that they would never, never reach the place. Houses became fewer and farther and farther apart. When the fence pole was taken down and they drove into the yard, Kathleen could hardly keep the tears back. No trees, no mountains, not a flower nor any lawn— just space. The house wasn't even painted. The inside was bare and the conveniences were few. Every drop of water that was used in the house had to be carried from a spring a hundred yards away. Kathleen now had two terrors—wind first and going for water second. And they needed so much water. With twin babies to wash and care for, it seemed that the water barrel was always nearly empty. Just when Kathleen would think that a resting time was coming, she would be told to "fill the water barrel, as we might need water before morning." Kathleen felt that something terrible was going to happen to her every time she went to the spring. And if she was told to go for water after dark, especially if the wind was blowing, she was filled with fear unspeakable. She felt ashamed to admit her fear and so went on torturing herself, always knowing that someday, something would happen. To celebrate the successful harvest season, the husband and wife decided to leave Kathleen with the twins and take a trip to the nearest city. Kathleen wanted so much to tell them that she was afraid to stay alone but her Scotch pride would not allow her to say so when her mistress said, "You don't mind being alone, Kathleen, do you? You are such a brave girl." Kathleen's extra duties kept her quite busy and it was almost dusk when she suddenly realized that the water barrel was empty. She must get more water. The twins were asleep so now would be a good time to go. "How I hate this job," she said to herself as she securely fastened the door so that the wind wouldn't blow it open, and started down the path. She hurried along, constantly looking to the right and left, for what she did not know. The spring was by the side of a clump of willows, the only resemblance to a tree that grew near the place. As she dipped in the bucket, she saw a reflection in the water which froze her to the spot. There, standing over her, was a huge Indian. He seemed a giant to her in his full In-
96 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
dian costume, feathered head piece, beaded buckskin jacket, pants, and moccasins. By his bleary eyes and by the whiskey flask in his hand, she knew that he was a drunken Indian. What should she do? If she ran to the house, no one was there to help her and he must not see the twins for he might steal them. She had read of Indians stealing white babies and adopting them into their tribe. She must not act afraid. So she took the bucket of water and started toward the barn, hoping to lead the Indian away from the house. The Indian stood still watching her until she had gone about a fourth of the distance, and then started after her. She began to run and so did he. Still wanting to keep him away from the babies, she headed for the road. Just as she reached the road, with a final leer, the Indian grabbed her in his arms, and as he did so she screamed. "Never mind, little girl, you'll be all right now," was the next thing she heard. "I came around the bend in the road just as you screamed. That Indian wouldn't have touched you if he hadn't been filled with moonshine that some dirty devil of a white skunk had given him. When he saw me, he dropped you and ran. You fainted and, by the time I had brought you around, the Indian was out of sight." "Thank you so much," said Kathleen. "I didn't know anybody lived around here." "I don't live here. My father's ranch house is twenty-five miles from here. I was riding out this way to round up some of our stray cattle." The boy was about Kathleen's age. He wore chaps and a big hat, and held a quirt in his right hand. "You never use that, do you?" asked Kathleen. Travers laughed and his big blue eyes twinkled as he said, "Only on cattle and Indians that try to frighten white girls like you." Kathleen smiled gratefully back at him and then suddenly remembered the twins. "Oh, won't you please come in and rest," she said. "I want you to see the twins." "Not yours, I hope." "No, but I wish they were." As they walked toward the house, Travers' horse obediently followed him and without a word being spoken to him, stopped at the hitching post, and his master threw the bridle reins over the post. As he gave the horse a friendly pat, he said to Kathleen, "This is my best pal. He can do everything but talk." Travers lingered much longer than he had expected to. He found Kathleen much more interesting than most girls he knew. She found herself telling him all her history, dwelling most of the time upon Scotland. How she loved to talk about the mountains and lakes and flowers in the land where she had spent so many happy days. "That's what I miss out here where you have nothing but sky and wind." "Oh, but the mountains would hem me in," said Travers. "I like to feel that I could go and go and never come to an end." Travers didn't say so, but he purposely kept Kathleen company until the folks returned. Kathleen went to sleep that night thinking not of the leering eyes of the Indian but of the kindly blue eyes of the one who had rescued her. The next two years Kathleen and Travers spent in high school in the city. They grew to like one another more and more and
THY COUNTRY SHALL BE MY COUNTRY 97
were happiest when together. Once they had a debate in school. The question was: "Resolved: that Scotland is a better country to live in than Canada." Travers spoke for Canada and Kathleen for Scotland and the judges declared it a tie. As a graduation present, Travers' parents gave a class party at the ranch house. It was really a house party because the ranch was so far away that they all stayed over night. Kathleen expected to see a house similar to the one she had lived in with the twins. But Travers' parents were wealthy and their ranch was noted all the country over. There was every convenience of the city home. They had their private electric lighting system, their big hot-water furnace and, best of all, their own private spring which carried the water all through the house and even supplied the big barn with running water for the animals. She was most interested in the spring. As she leaned over to drink, she slipped and Travers caught her. He held her tightly in his arms and kissed her tenderly. "Oh forgive me," he said. "I shouldn't have done that because— because—well, I'm going away for a while. It may be two years or more. That was my farewell party last night. I am going on a mission for my church. Kathleen looked so sad that Travers felt he must chase the tears away so he said gaily, "I'm going to see for myself whether or not Scotland is better than Canada." Kathleen's mood changed. "All right, sir, I'll make a bargain with you. If you will try to like Scotland, I will try to like Canada." The bargain was sealed with a kiss and they rode away. The two years passed quickly for they were busy. They exchanged letters regularly and in nearly every one, they told each other of the progress being made toward keeping their promises. Kathleen now had a good position as a stenographer, and she was saving as much money as she could toward bringing her family to Canada. She was especially anxious to have her mother come, as frequently different members of the family had written to her saying that "Mother's health is poor. She has such terrible headaches that the doctor has to give her some powders to take. When she takes them, she can sleep, and only then." Kathleen felt that if her mother could only breathe the fresh air of Canada instead of the Liverpool smoke that she would be better soon. But the daughter's dream was never realized for one day a letter came saying that Mother had taken too many powders and had never wakened from her sleep. Kathleen was heartbroken, especially when the papers came which said that her mother had committed suicide. She wrote to Travers about it, who had met all of her family as he passed through Liverpool on his way to Scotland. "You know my mother wouldn't do that terrible thing, don't you," she wrote. "If I could only talk to you, I know that you could comfort me. You will go to see them on your way home, won't you?" He did more than that. The family had saved ever since Kathleen left and with a little help which Travers borrowed from his father, he brought the entire family home with him on the same boat. "This is to be my surprise to Kathleen," he explained to them and so she knew nothing except that Travers would be home on a certain date.
98 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
As the train pulled in, Kathleen's heart was beating like a sledge hammer. The one person who had been the kindest to her was home again. Oh if—but she smothered the wish. It came true just the same for he did bring all the rest of the people that she wanted most to see. It didn't take long to get her family comfortably settled in a little home, with good prospects of getting along nicely. They had Kathleen to help them over the rough places. It was the fall harvest time when they landed and all the family were able to get work right away. Everybody in Canada is busy at harvest time. Even Travers and Kathleen couldn't see each other as much as they wished. Travers' father and mother felt that they were old now, and they wanted to leave the ranch and its responsibilities and go to the city to live. So they announced to Travers one day that they wanted to give a farewell party at the ranch house, Christmas Eve. "The last big party we gave was your graduation and farewell party, Travers, and now we'd like this to be your wedding party, son, if Kathleen says yes." It was a merry wedding party. Most of the guests came in bob sleighs, for the snow was drifted and no auto could get through. When everyone had gone home but the bride and groom, as they sat before the big log fire, Kathleen looked at Travers and said, "Oh, I'm so glad we don't have to fill our water barrel tonight." "Are you sure you can be happy with me here, Kathleen?" "Yes, dear. Thy country shall be my country and thy people my people."
BEAUTIFUL OGDEN CANYON
A Beautiful Memory
By Glen Perrins
Enthralled at the bend of the river I stood one winter's day, looking at the contrasts of the black and white of Mother Nature. Down the canyon, splashing against the ice which lined its banks. Ogden river gurgled merrily Here and there a green pine tree stood silhouetted against the white background of snow on the mountain side. Bare were the limbs of the trees and bushes—a stiff wind had preceded my visit to this beauty spot. It was still blowing a bit and the day was rather cold, yet I stood enrapt at the magnificence of winter, and took away with me that day a beautiful memory.

