[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | January | Issue: 16 | Title: EDITORIAL NOTES. | Author: Unknown]

EDITORIAL NOTES.

	We have been shown today the drawing
for a very artistic map of the the pioneer
route of the Mormon people journeying
from the city of Nauvoo to the valley of
the Great Basin. The work is to be litho-
graphed and placed upon the market. It
will be suitable for every home and for
public buildings. A pocket edition is also
to be prepared and issued.
	The agents of the “Exponent” in all the
several wards and Stakes of Zion, and also
individual subscribers indebted for the
paper are urgently requested to settle all
old accounts at the earliest date possible.
This becomes an absolute necessity on ac-
count of the change that takes place in the
management of the Deseret Evening News.
The “Exponent” will not be sent to any
subscriber after January 1899, unless pre-
paid. All delinquents will as soon as pos-
sible receive written notices of bills due, in
addition to the printed matter. 
	One of the notable features of the past
year, 1898, and one in which women are
greatly interested is the document of the
Czar of Russia toward a proposed treaty
for universal peace, and coming as it did
from the most autocratic of rulers it does
seem indicative of a world-wide movement
for the arbitration of all serious difficulties
among nations, and a general tendency to-
wards the amicable settlement of hostilities,
and finally the result may be a ceasation of
warfare altogether, for which good time
coming all who desire the true welfare of
humanity should be grateful.
	The clubs of Salt Lake City have com-
bined their efforts and have succeeded in
getting started a “Utah Free Traveling

[Column 2]
Library.” It is one of the best philan-
thropic, educational benefits that could
come to those living in isolated communi-
ties where good books are not obtainable.
All the clubs in the Federation are expected
to contribute their quota of money and of
books. The work is in the hands of a
committee of ladies, of which Mrs. Helen
D. Moore is chairman.
	Woman’s Work, is a Southern monthly
magazine published in Montgomery, Ala-
bama, business manager, Evelyn Fitz-
patrick. The journal aims to disseminate
the best ideas of club women. It is being
ably conducted and promises, if one can
judge from the few numbers that have been
issued, to fill a void in the South, where
few women have as yet entered into the
spirit of club work that is permeating the
whole country. We are grateful to Wo-
man’s Work for mentioning the “Exponent”
and in connection with it the silk industry
in Utah. May Woman’s Work become a
power for good in the land, and the women
of all sections join hands and co-operate for
the good of all, casting aside the geographi-
cal lines of distinction, until by custom they
shall become obliterated in mind.
	Mrs. Hannah J. Bailey of Winthrop
Centre, Maine, is en route to California and
will pay Salt Lake a visit on her return trip
in March. Mrs. Bailey is the treasurer of
the National Council of Women of the
United States, and (of course) one of the
General Board of that great society to
which the National W. R. S. and the Y.L.
N. M. I. A. are connected. Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young and Mrs. Elmina S. Taylor both
being vice presidents of the council by vir-
tue of their positions as presidents of these
National associations. Mrs Bailey is a wo-
man of great executive ability, and will
find a loving welcome in our city from the 
ladies who have such pleasant remembran-
ces of her genial manner and kindly face.
Mrs. Bailey manages a large manufactur-
ing business in Maine of which her husband
was proprietor previous to his decease a
few years ago; she is also superintendent
of the World’s W. C. T. U. and associated
in other organizations of public interest.
We trust her brief stay among us will be
a pleasant leaf in her wayside notes of her
journey from the coast.


