[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | January | Issue: 16 | Title: LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. | Author: Unknown]

LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	The Ladies’ Semi-monthly meeting was
held in the 14th ward hall Saturday, Dec.
17, 1898, Counselor E. J. Stevenson presid-
ing in the absence of President Horne.
Singing, “For the strength of the hills we
bless thee.” Prayer by Counselor Bath-
sheba W. Smith. Singing, “Welcome
best of all good meetings.” Minutes read
and approved.
	A sister, name unknown, bore a faithful
testimony. Counselor E. Webb spoke of
the spirit of meekness and love and said we
should dedicate ourselves to the Lord in
the morning and evening, be careful and do
our duties.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder said this was the
first of the year when our hearts were
drawn out to one another, and our thoughts
are upon Him whose birth we celebrate.
She did not think we could realize the love
He bears for His children. He was an ex-
ample of humility and obedience. “Let us
love one another and help one another.”
Another sister spoke on honest tithing and
donations.

[Column 2]
	Sister Martha A. Morris who had just re-
turned from Europe spoke a few moments.
She said she had been to get genealogy,
but she had testified of the Gospel where-
ever opportunity offered. She had borne
her testimony to her relatives forty years
ago and she bore it again to them and told
them she would leave them without excuse.
	Sister Jane James rejoiced in living in
these days. Sister McMaster thanked God
that she had been permitted to come forth
in this generation. Thought it was our
business to secure God for ourselves and
not criticise others.
	Sister Jane A. Albrand spoke of the way
God cares for His children,. He preserves
them on land and sea. Sister Jane Powell
said she had walked many miles to preach
to her relatives but not one of them had
been so favored of the Lord as to accept
the Gospel but herself. Said she and her
daughter had been privileged to go into the
Temple and do the work for over one thou-
sand. 
	Sister Kiddle bore testimony to the power
of prayer and spoke of the great desire she
had to come to Zion, and how thankful she
was to her Heavenly Father she had been
permitted to do so.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke of the great
wrong we did in criticising those placed
over us. Said her idea of a Latter-day
Saint was to be kind and not get angry, pay
your tithing, donations and Relief Society
donations, go to your meetings promptly,
be careful of your criticisms, watch and
pray and do good to all. Wished all a
Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year.
	Counselor Stevenson said since we had
last met Sister Sarah M. Kimball had passed
away, she was one of the board of these
Saturday meetings. She wished all a Mer-
ry Christmas and a Happy New Year and
invited all to bring friends enough with
them to fill the house next meeting. An
invitation was sent to all the Relief Society
presidents and counselors to attend the
closing exercises of Dr. Robert’s nursing
class.
	Sister Morris and congregation sang “O,
my Father.” Meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Benediction, Mrs. M. W. Wilcox.
			J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


