OUR TRIALS.

	The Lord says He will have a tried people,
and if it is his desire, and he permits us to be
tried, it proves it is for our good. We are to
be tried to see if we are able to stand the temp-
tations of the evil one; our Savior was temp-
ted, but he said, "get thee behind me, Satan,"
and if we are in the line of our duty, we also
will have power given us to rebuke the evil
one in the name of Jesus, that name which,
when uttered, will cause, as the poet exclaims,
"the devils to fear and flee away." But as we
must he tried in order to be God's children we
must pass through perhaps bodily affliction,
and how many of us under such circumstances

[Column 2]
have felt to exclaim, "It has been good for me
to be afflicted;" then is the time we more es-
pecially are free from the cares of life, and
although our bodies perhaps are suffering great
pain and weakness, our minds are strong, our
spirits buoyant, and we hold sweet communion
with our Father, his spirit whispers comfort
and peace, and fills our hearts with joy unutter-
able, and full of glory, so that we have cause
for gratitude, and praise God that we have
been afflicted; we realize that some of the dross
has been consumed and we are enabled to go
on our way rejoicing. But some persons will
say, I am so tried, I cannot, and will sometimes
go so far as to say they will not bear it. Stop,
my dear sisters, before you utter these words,
and reflect for one moment where these thoughts
come from, and from what source they spring.
	We are told the heart is deceitful, and des-
perately wicked, and so long as we feel in that
state of mind, we dare venture to say there is
something of that kind burning within. What
is it you cannot bear? May be it is the very
thing the Lord intends to purify and bless you
with, perhaps it may be the principle of plural
marriage, which, when practised in purity and
righteousness, will ennoble woman in this life,
and eventually exalt her in the Celestial King-
dom of our Father and God.
	Shall we, as women of Zion, we who have
embraced the everlasting Gospel, and have
tested of the good things of the kingdom,
perhaps enjoyed some of the gifts therein, shall
we lift our puny arm against the Almighty,
or any of the principles which have been re-
vealed! nay verily! Let us not be guilty of
such an act, but let us rather rejoice to have
husbands worthy of more than one wife, and if
we will do so, our Father in heaven will be well
pleased with us, and we will have more joy
than our hearts had ever conceived of.
	Again, some who have come to Zion have
left good homes and every worldly comfort.
What induced them to do so? was it for the
Gospel's sake, or had they any other motive in
view? If the former, they will be satisfied
when they arrive here. They may be tried in
many, various ways, but they are blest, and
their way is opened. On the contrary, if we
come with other motives than to serve God,
keep his commandments, and help build up
Zion, we shall get discouraged and dissatisfied,
and say things are not what they were repre-
sented to be, then commence to be dissatisfied
with everything, and everybody, and especially
with those who preside over the Church, which,
by the bye, is the first step to apostacy; then
our minds become dark, and eventually such
persons will leave the Church. Such are they
who cannot stand the trials, and are neces-
sarily not of those whom the Lord will have;
and inasmuch as they are not willing to be sub-
ject to his laws, will have to be subject to him
whom they list to obey, who will verily prove
to be a hard master and give poor pay. Then
in consideration of these things, let us endeavor
each day, to "prove all things, and hold fast
that which is good," and patiently endure all
the Lord sees fit we should pass through. Let
us pray for strength to enable us to do God's
righteous will, and all his laws obey; Seek
him with all our might, we then will know,
and prove what is true. We must our trials all
pass through to gain celestial glory, and we
will then realize 'twas good we had "Our
Trials."
