DEAR SISTER HELEN:

	According to promise, I will endeavor to give
you a short history of my travels and experi-
ence since I left home. I had quite a lonesome
journey, traveling all the way alone, 2,400
miles. I arrived in Chattanooga about 11 p.m.,
and I assure you I felt like one of the lost sheep,
but I managed to find a hotel. The next morn-
ing, I started out to find some one that I knew,
but it was similar to hunting for a needle in a
hay stack, but, nevertheless, I found the needle
in the shape of Bro. A. H. Snow, son of
Apostle Lorenzo Snow. I don't know when I
ever was as pleased to see any one aaJ was him;
he was there attending to Elder John Morgan's
business. We started out the next merning to
see the sights; we went to the top of Cameron
Hill on the west side of the city, from this
point you can get a view of the whole country
around. The city water works were beneath us,
the water is forced from the Tennessee River up
to the top of this hill, by a steam pump, into a
reservoir, and then is carried throughout the
city in mains. East of the city is Missionary
Ridge, where one of the bloodiest battles of the
late war was fought, also, to the south is Look-
out Mountain, where another great battle was
fought; the timber was literally cut to pieces on
this mountain; it is a very high point, there is at
present on the top, a hotel for the accomodotion
of visitors. We next visited the National Ceme-
tery, east of the city; this is a beautiful place;
there are 14,000 soldiers buried there; it is
sodded down to lawn grass all over; the graves
are laid out in sections in circles, so many graves
to a section, the graves of those that are un-
known surrounded by those that are known; each
grave being surmounted with a marble slab.
The entrance to these grounds is through an iron
gate, the gate being hung to two large stone
pillars, about 16 feet high, surmounted by a
beautiful HEAD PIECE, inscribed with the date
of its erection. There is also an acadamized
road leading to this city. It is quite a large city

[Column 2]
some 30,000 inhabitants, but there are about two-
thirds of them negroes. So much for Chat-
tanooga. I stopped at that place four days,
when Brother Morgan arrived from Mississippi;
he then set me apart to travel in Virginia, I left
on the night of the 8th of November for my
destination. I was here alone for a month,
before my traveling companion came, he had
been to Pennsylvania visiting his folks, I think
you and Uncle Horace are acquainted with him,
Brother Howard Coray, he often speaks of you;
we were together some time when another Elder,
Brother Soule came, so I am to travel with him,
leaving Brother Coray to move around as he sees
fit, being too old to do much walking this winter.
It is a very hard country to travel in, it being
very mountainous. I have done considerable
traveling and fireside talk since I have been
here. I have spoken in public twice; my desire
is to fill a good and honorable mission, and I
feel to put my trust in God, knowing that he is
able to accomplish all things, and I know if a
man is honorable and contrite in his spirit, he
will be able to overcome all obstacles, and that
friends will be raised up to him on the right and
on the left. I have verified this wherever I
have met friends. Brother Coray and I have
been able to get into society where no other
Elder had been; among men that were most
bitter in their prejudices six months ago. They
are very wealthy people, and they have given
us standing invitations to stop with them, I ap-
preciate this, and acknowledge the hand of God
in it. Brother Smith, in bleasing me, told me
that I should follow in the footsteps of my father,
and that I should never lack for friends, and
should be able to accomplish a good mission, pro-
viding I would keep the word of wisdom, and
keep unspotted from the world, which counsel I
have faith enough to follow with the help of my
Heavenly Father. Well, dear sister, I will
close for the present, with love to your family,
Uncle Horace and Aunt Mary and family, not
forgetting yourself.
		From your affectionate Brother,
