WOMAN'S VOICE.

	I have taken much interest in questions
asked by Mrs. Scott, and she seems to me a
dear friend, although I have never seen her
face or heard her voice. I see from her letters
that her mind has been exercised in many
instances the same as my own was once.
I have been waiting to learn what the sisters
who answer would say to her, for they some-
times express my feelings better than I can do
myself. She asks what the Commissioners did?
Well, I consider they did well. They did what
the Lord permitted, and as his hand is over all
his works, we have nothing to fear, but trust
implicitly in Him. Those men and women that
were not allowed to vote because they had ac-
cepted the doctrine of plural marriage, know,
that they are excused because of having ac-
cepted a higher law. Yet we had four thous-
and votes more than the previous year. They
were more honorable than the Governor, be-


cause they gave the certificate to the person
who had the largest number of votes. Was
not this honorable? Should we not praise the
bridge which carries us safe over? They would
have done more had they known that this was
the work of God our Father. They shall have
my prayers that they may at some future day
know this to be a fact. I fancy I see Mrs.
Scott and her family, sitting around the table
seeking intelligence; one of them reading the
problem of life. How important, because this
is a duty we owe to ourselves and our Maker.
I wish Mrs. Scott could read Mr. Charles W.
Penrose's remarks upon this subject. I thought
of her last evening while listening to the re-
marks of Prof. T. B. Lewis, the able Superin-
tendent of all the schools in this county. He
was speaking of the importance of informing
our minds upon subjects pertaining to this
earth, because the Creator of heaven and earth
was the Father of all our spirits. He thought
a son was not dutiful if he neglected to make
himself acquainted with the works of his
father. Yet said, our education would not pro-
cure salvation, but our characters would. He
related a conversation with the brother of a
young man who had been on a mission, who said
his brother when in England, wrote very en-
thusiastic letters, full of light and intelligence,
but since he returned home, became darkened
in his mind and "now has no religion in him."
To illustrate this, Prof. Lewis likened it to a
man who went up stream to visit a person who
lived five miles at the head of the stream.
Said the man rowed the boat until he came
just near the house, when he became tired and
threw down his oars, saying, "I am so near I
will rest, I shall soon be there." But the cur-
rent took him back even beyond the starting
point. He then showed that application was
necessary to success. He also compared it to
the study of music. What great attainments
are made by application to that study? To
prepare for a concert, how often it is necessary
to practice in order to become proficient.
Argueing that those who had recieved the gift
of the good Spirit, had obtained it by seeking
diligently and applying their whole soul to the
rules that our Savior has given us to live by.
When we do this, great are the results. Yes,
the Scripture says, they who keep those laws
as he the Savior kept them, shall be heirs and
joint heirs with Jesus Christ. Not only so,
but possess a joy and peace the world can
neither give or take from them. Those who
adhere to the principles he taught, have the light
which St. John speaks of as being the true
light, which lighteth every man who cometh
into the world. With this light, how clear, how
plainly we can see and comprehend all that we
touch and handle. We will not fail to be suc-
cessful, for we are constantly improving. The
Savior said it would be like a well of water
springing up into everlasting life. This is our
experience. If Mrs. Scott will try it in the
sincerity of her heart, her experience will be
the same. The Savior was called faithful and
true. If we attain to perfection, we must be
like Him.			M. E. KIMBALL.


