DESULTORY MEMORIES.

	Every reflective person has times of medita-
tion. These may occur from some event that
transpires, or peculiar frame of mind in part
unaccountable, or from certain surroundings.
Floods of remembrances rush in as it were un-
bidden, and burst asunder the barriers time
has thrown up between us and the scenes of
earlier life; all at once rivers of thought flow
over the soul and almost bury the present for
the time being, so absorbing, is the emotion,
carrying us back to other days. Vividly the
galleries in memory's hall stand out in bold re-
lief, and we recognise here and there the
familiar faces and forms of those we loved,
and recall the associations connected with them
which had been almost forgotten, in the whirl-
pool of busy everyday life, that swallows up
so completely our thoughts and energies, while
actively engaged in the occpations that bring
us in close contact with the people among whom
we live. It is right to a certain extent to be
thus engaged in the present, and in looking
forward to the future; and yet it is well to
pause now and then in retrospective reverie
for the mind needs rest and recreation.
	The present demands attention, the future
is calling for action. These are facts with
which we are all acquainted, but to revel occa-
sionally in the realms of the past, is oft-times
like sweet music heard in dreams, that thrills
the senses when we awaken, and imparts pleas-
urable sensations, that word scan never express.
There is a pathos in memory hallowed and
sanctified, that is always elevating; and to be
able to call up from within, pictures
taken from incidents that actually transpired,
is better than to create air castles for the fu-
ture, that are not possible of fulfillment. If
you ask me why? I answer because it cultivates
the heart. Only those who are capable of in-
tense affection, the highest enjoyment, or the
keenest suffering, can fully appreciate what it
is to traverse memory's halls and search out
the beauty of that which has departed.
	To cultivate the graces of human life and
bring into exercise the finest faculties we pos-
sess, is to breathe a higher atmosphere, which
will develop the broadest phase of character,
that will search out the truth and the light,
and find a mantle of charity to cover the weak-
nesses of those less favored with conditions to
promote advancement. It is from women more
especially that this refinement of culture is ex-
pected. Her gentleness, her amiability, her
intuition are all aids and helps in softening,
subduing and polishing the manners, the cus-
toms and the hearts of the masses of the peo-
ple in the world we inhabit.
	No festival or entertainment is ever perfect
without woman's help; it is her prerogative to
embellish, adorn and beautify, and in all the
pictures memory portrays, she is ever a promi-
nent feature. The mother, the sister, the
friend, the one who could enter into all the
griefs of our childhood, was a woman. Yet
she is not perfect in and of herself, but associa-
ted with man, the two forming one perfect
whole, how complete do wo find the arrange-
ment of the divine Creator.
	The departure of the old year and the usher-
ing in of the new, is apt to awaken some of
those tender phases of feeling that are spoken
of as sentimentality, often in a careless manner;
but there is always a lesson in these recur-
rences, and there are those who mark such

[Column 2]
days as epochs in their lives. It matters not
what calls forth tenderness, it is always a bless-
ing. To be indifferent and callous to all things,
is to mar instead of make character; not that
we should always be carried away by our
excess of sysmpathy, or deceive ourselves with
superabundance of fine feeling without judg-
ment, or principle; but to be kind, gentle, ten-
der and considerate, and educate the heart and
affections epually with the head and hands.
	It is well to reason and to be practical, it is
commendable to dig deep for scientific know-
ledge, but there must be a balance of spiritual
force and human affection or we should have a
race of sages and savantes,without that love and
reverence that purifies and sanctifies joys and
sorrows, and draws mankind closer together in
bonds of universal brotherhood. Then let us
keep up the old-time customs that encourage
coming together and exchanging courtesies and
kindnesses, that our children may look back to
the holidays and annual festivities with as
much pleasure and satisfaction, as we do now
to the good old times when we were young and
all things seemed gilded with brightest hopes
in rainbow hues. How fondly we recall child-
hood's memories; the old homestead, the mea-
dows and groves, the singing birds, the swal-
low's twitter, the lark's high note, the mourn-
ful whippoorwill; the speckled trout in the
little brook near the old home, that sailed
along the babbling water. Was anything ever
so tasty as these little fish? the berries with
which our fingers were often stained, and the
autumn nuts, gathered in the dear old woods
and stowed away in the attics and garrets, to
be brought out in the winter evenings when
the work was all put aside and we ate apples,
cracked nuts, and, sometimes, though perhaps
we ought not to tell it, the old folks drank sweet
cider. Can we ever forget these creature com-
forts? No! Neither should we, they help
make up the sum of human happiness, and we
are better, if not wiser, for such pastimes and
enjoyments around the fireside with those, who
love us and can appreciate our feelings. To
eat together cements friendship—and the cus-
tom of inviting our friends to partake our
hospitality in the good old-fashioned way,
without too much style and ceremony, should
not be cast aside for new-fangled notions of
formal calls and fashionable dinner parties.
