N. W. S. A., WASHINGTON, D. C.

	The National Woman Suffrage Association
true to the principles they profess, have re-
solved to use their influence to defeat Cassidy's
Bill introduced into the Congress of the United
States, with the object of annulling the act of
the Utah Legislature of 1870, in passing the
bill granting suffrage to the women of this
Territory. At a preliminary meeting held in
the Riggs House Parlors, Washington, D. C.,
Saturday evening, Dec. 30, the following reso-
lution was adopted:
	"Resolved, That the bill introduced into the
House of Representatives by the Hon. G. W.
Cassidy, of Nevada, to deprive the women of
Utah of the ballot is a retrograde movement,
and aimed at the perpetual disfranchisement
of all women, notwithstanding his assertions
to the contrary, as women who are polygamists
cannot vote there now; and that we will
use whatever power we possess to defeat that
measure."
	Another resolution was adopted at the same
meeting in reference to the cruel and wicked
persecution of Mrs. Helen M, Gougar, editor
of "Our Herald," a woman's paper published
and very ably conducted by that estimable
lady, who on account of her bold and fearless
speaking and writing against wickedness and
crime has been most cruelly slandered. Mrs.
Gougar has brought suit for slander against
the men who so basely traduced her character.
The following is the resolution:
	"Resolved, That the Washington branch of the
National Woman's Suffrage Association extend
to Mrs. Helen M. Gougar their moral support
in her suit, now pending against calumny and
detraction, the weapons only of cowards; and
that we consider her cause the cause of all
women."
	We heartily endorse the sentiment expressed
in the resolution, and hope Mrs. Gougar may
come off triumphant in the suit now pending.
Mrs. G. says in her paper of Dec. 9:
	"The slanderer and his attorney have raked
around among our former servant girls and
sewing women; have searched hotel registers to
find our "character" but they have studiously
avoided calling in the hundreds of Christian
homes where we have been hospitably enter-
tained from time to time."
	With all the wicked and vile things that
have been circulated about the suffrage work-
ers, this is the first instance we have heard of
when suit has been brought, and the ladies who
believe in "equality of women before the law,"
will watch the proceedings of the court in this
matter with anxiety and intense interest. Mrs.
G. is a handsome woman, a fine figure, most
pleasing address, brilliant writer and a great
favorite on the platform. A woman to be
loved and respected.


On the whole, it is good, it is absolutely
needful, for one to be humbled and prostrated,
and thrown among the pots from time to time.
Life is a school; we are perverse scholars to
the last, and require the rod.—Thomas Carlyle.

	At the last meeting of the "Woman's Liter-
ary Club" of Indianapolis, an exceedingly
well-prepared paper upon the life and charac-
ter of Margaret Fuller was read by Mrs. May
Wright Sewall.


