CHRISTMAS REFLECTIONS.

	This morning as I sit in my warm and cozy
parlor thinking over our numerous blessings
and the goodness of our Heavenly Father in all
the years that have passed and wishing that
every one was equally favored with myself;
though not possessing the treasures of Mammon
or any worldly grandeur, I am truly thankful,
and that I have learned the worthlessness of
these things when not put to the right use,
and for the experience which has taught me
what true riches consist of. Among the
greatest of my blessings is in having gained
this knowledge, and how those greater and
lasting riches are to he obtained. "Better is a
handful with quietness than both the hands full
with travail and vexation of spirit." I have

[Column 2]
many earthly comforts and even luxuries which
I have sorely known the want of in days that
are past, but now in my declining years, I
have many things to cheer me—dwelling
within the bosom of my family and surrounded
by many tried and true friends.
	I was just feeling a little sad at the thought,
of my absent son and thinking if he with wife
and little ones could be with us to-day, our
cup would be overflowing, when who should
open the door but my husband’s oldest
daughter of the other branch, saying with a
bright smile, "Aunt Helen, I did not forget
you," and at the same time, handing me the
tokens of her remembrance aecompanied with
a kiss and the following note: "To Aunt
Helen, with love and best wishes for a happy
Christmas, from Ella," which be assured, were
more highly appreciated for being of her own
skilful handiwork. Other tokens of remem-
brance have been interchanged, but the above
incident will serve our purpose as a text from
which to preach a short Christmas sermon.
This has been her practice from the time that
I ceased dressing dolls and assisting "Santa
Claus" in preparing packages to fill the
numerous pairs of big and little stockings after
the owners had retired, that all might feel joy-
ous together on the long anxiously and looked
for Christmas morning. A delightful means
is this, when attainable, of conveying to one
another our love and kindly feelings, which
upon this day of all others should predomi-
nate, being the anniversary of the morning
that gave birth to Christ the Savior of all
mankind, who, history tells us, was born in a
manger and never had any home. "Foxes have
holes and birds of the air have nests, said
Jesus, but the Son of Man hath not where to
lay his head." We read that "wealth maketh
friends, but the poor is separated from his
neighbor." But it is the poor who can lay claim
to the promise of our Savior. We have no
paupers among us, which seemed to be a sur-
prise to the Commissioners, one of them asking
if we had hidden them away.
	We have the comfort of knowing that the
poor in our diflerent wards are looked after by
the Bishops and our Ladies Relief Societies,
and that they are never forgotten upon the
holidays. All who are able have donated
to make their hearts glad upon this Christmas
day. Not our people alone, but they have
been, remembered by merchants and other
charitable disposed persons outside of our
Church. But do we mothers realize the re-
sponsibilities that are devolving upon us, and
the solemn charge which our Father has com-
mitted into our care and management?

"For the hand that rocks the cradle,
Is the hand that rules the world."

	And oh! what a responsibility and what a
warfare with the various and conflicting pow-
ers that come in opposition to the good—influ-
ences which seem almost unavoidable, are
thrown around our children, and like a whirl-
pool, seem ready to swallow them up. We
have seen the efiects of it and the sorrows of
the disobedient, who have refused, to take
counsel, and have gone their own way, thereby
bringing irreparable ruin upon themselves and
the most heartrending anguish to the hearts of
their loving parents and friends, whose wise
counsel and reproofs they have wilfully disre-
garded. Among the most grievous sins is the
disrespect and irreverence paid to the authority
of the Supreme Being. Little consideration
is paid to the Sabbath day by scores who pro-
fess, or wish to he considered Latter-day Saints,
and how many of the children of Zion are
guilty of this sin ageinst God our Heavenly
Father, upon whom we are dependent; for all
that we enjoy, even for the smallest breath of
life, which He, in an instant, could extinguish
if He saw fit. Is it not a little strange that

[Column 3]
we can not afford to stop and devote one day
to Him out of seven, which He has com-
manded and said that we should keep Holy.
He left open no loop holes for us to find ex-
cuses for our indulgence in vain amusements,
or working to make preparations for them in
the coming week, as we see frequently done in
our midst. Those of more mature years, who
lead out, should set a different example to the
younger, instead of making a wrong use of the
Sabbath day; which many appear to think, un-
avoidable, but I protest against this idea, for
He makes no requirements that are impossible
for His children to fulfil. On this day we
should go to the house of worship, not with
long faces, but with a glad heart and a cheerful
countenance. All our vain thoughts and fool-
ish desires should give way to duty upon that
day, and if we can not restrain ourselves, but
will continue to diregard His wishes, then He
will surely disregard ours in a day to come, for
"As ye have sown, so shall ye reap " But to
the willing and obedient, He will say:

"Ye blessed of my Father, come, ye just,
Enter the joy eternal of your Lord;
Receive yonr crowns, ascend, and sit with Me,
At God’s right hand, in glory evermore."

	Our children should be examples instead of
stumbling blocks to the weak, and we should
all be united in working for the good and ele-
vation of mankind.
	Those modern scribes and pharisees whose
blindness has led them to believe the "Mor-
mons" and especially the ones who have ac-
cepted and obeyed the higher laws of God to be
only the ignorant dupes of a few cunning and
scheming men, devoid of all refinement in their
homes and surroundings, and all those sweet
and holy emotions which are so necessary to
true happiness are ill prepared to pass judg-
ment upon a whole people. For the Latter-
day Saints are trying in their every day walks
to become Saints and useful citizens, minding
their own business, exercising their faculties,
and improving and bringing into use, all the
talents which the Lord has lent them, for this
He requires at the hands of all, to fit and pre-
pare us for those higher walks of life in that
celestial and exalted state, where freed from
the pains and infirmities, which all flesh is heir
to here, we can continue on in our labors of
love, enjoying an eternity of unmolested and
unbroken happiness, in the midst of that glory
which we (in obedience to revelation, having
acted as saviors to the living as well as the
dead, to meet those promises made by our elder
brother Jesus Christ, to our Father, before the
foundation of this world, for the salvation and
exaltation of man) have helped to increase—
for He has promised that we shall become
heirs to God and joint heirs with Jesus Christ,
and as the Prophet Joseph said, "when he
(Jesus) gets his kingdom he will present it to
his Father, so that God may obtain kingdom
upon kingdom, and it will exalt him in glory.
He will then take a higher exaltation, and the
Savior will take his place and thereby become
exalted himself, so that Jesus treads in the
ways of his Father, and inherits what God
did before, and God is thus glorified and ex-
alted in the salvation and exaltation of all His
children." These are some of God’s simple
but grand and eternal truths,which come down
to the understanding even of a little child.
"Every way of a man is right in his own eyes;
but the Lord pondereth the heart." If the
honest portion of the world could, but know
the desires and aims of this people, called
Mormons, and comprehend, even in a small
degree, the high and holy calling to which we
have been called, and have a taste of that
Spirit which illuminates our whole being when
walking in obedience to the commandments of
the Almighty, they would never entertain such
erroneous ideas, and there would be no such


[Column 1]
wicked and foolish accusations raised against
so innocent and law abiding a people.
	Polygamy has been called the "Mormons'
pet theory." If such is the case, it has only
become so by the immense interest which the
world appear to take in it, and the unmerciful
attacks made upon it by those who are entirely
ignorant of the principle, and of the motives
which prompted us to accept it. The unprin-
cipled course which they are pursuing towards
us, compels us to stand in its defence, and they
have taken the wrong step to cool our zeal; we
refer them to the history of past ages for proofs
whether or no we speak truly. There was far
more danger of its dying a natural death,
when all went smoothly. But supposing this
part of our religion was done away with, would
it meet the ends aimed at by these pretended
reformers? No. The ones who are living in
polygamy have been excluded from the polls
by the Commissioners, but it seems to have
brought them no nearer to the solution of the
"problem" than they were before. There is
certainly no mystery in this patriarchal order
of marriage, being Bible doctrine. We are
more than willing that our record should be
placed side by side with theirs. Nothing could
please us better than to have this opportunity
of drawing comparisons, between our lives and
those of the pious souls who seem so pained
over the marriage relations of a few "Mor-
mons" in Utah. But the facts, when simmered
down, are contained in this little sentence:
They cannot handle the "Mormon" funds. The
signs and awful judgments which we see are
being poured out upon the proud and wicked
nations, show that their cup is full and running
over, and it is for us to see that we are not
found upon their side. For they trust in their
own strength, Goliath like, "But our confidence
is in the Almighty God, who, at a beck, can
cast down both them that come against us, and
also all the world."
	Let the mothers and the daughters of Zion
who have entered into this high and holy
order of marriage, be true to themselves and
to their covenants, for if they have done it
with pure motives, they will surely experience
the divine interposition of the of the Almighty in
their behalf, and he will avert the blow; for
hath he not many times delivered us out of
great troubles?
	Let us remember that the prayers of the
righteous availeth much. We read of the
faith of women anciently. There was Susan-
nah, who cried with a loud voice, and the Lord
heard her and raised up the spirit of Daniel,
who stood up in the midst of the people, who
had condemned her to die, and said, "Are ye
such fools, ye sons of Israel, that without ex-
amination or knowledge of the truth ye have
condemned a daughter of Israel? To those
who are planning against us and "have
prounced false judgment and condemned the
innocent and let the guilty go free," it will be
said, "Thou hast also lied against thine own
head, for the angel of God waiteth with the
sword that he may destroy you."
	Let us beware of the tongue of slander, and
that we do not bear false witness against our
neighbor. "Though I have the gift of prophecy,
and understand all mysteries, and all knowl-
edge, and though I have all faith, so that I
could remove mountains and have not charity,
I am nothing;"
	The Latter-day Saints need not look for
peace, for have we not been told that we were
to be tried in the furnace; and the extent of it,
I think we have scarcely begun yet to feel,
and those who have entered into the sacred
and holy order of matrimony thoughtlessly or
treated it as a trifling matter, would do well to
repent and seek unto the Lord until they ob-
tain a testimony for themselves, and not pro-
rastinate the day, for "slothfulness casteth into
deep sleep, and an idle soul shall suffer hun-

[Column 2]
ger." "To do justice and judgment is more
acceptable to the Lord than sacrifice."
	Now as the old year is dying out, and we
are about to commence a new one, let us turn
over another leaf, and begin by forming some
new resolutions, and instead of continuing in the
narrow gauge; step out upon a grander and a
broader scale where the Lord has designed to
place us, and we will be better able to meet
the repeated attacks from our enemies who
are striving to make inroads among us, and
are making their unrighteous and unlawful as-
saults upon our rights and our religion. We
who have been called the weaker vessels are
now being brought to the front and let us show
by our earnest works whether or no we are
made of the right material, that can stand
the burning, thereby proving ourselves an
honor to our Maker.
