EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:

	The Swiss and German mission yesterday
evening concluded a well attended and instruc-
tive conference, during which, among statistical
and financial reports from all parts of the mis-
sion respecting the branches, the work of preach-
ing the Gospel, the emigration of the Saints, the
Sunday schools, etc., a very creditable report
was given concerning the Women's Relief So-
ciety existing in the city of Bern. The sisters
had their meeting yesterday at 2 o'clock, the
hall being densely crowded with brethren and
sisters from various parts of Switzerland, and it
was really a most excellent gathering, the ladies
presiding, speaking, bearing powerful and im-
pressive testimonies, and conducting the whole
business of the meeting in a manner instructive
and edifying to all who enjoy the Spirit of God
and who are able to appreciate its presence, Ac-
cording to the report there read, it appears that
the society was organized by Prest. P. F. Goss,
on the 30th of June, 1882, with a president, two
counselors, a secretary, nine visiting teachers
and twenty-three members, a total member-
ship of thirty-six. Since the organization four-
teen meetings had been held, all visits in the
various circuits had been industriously and regu-
larly made, and, one may be sure, great good
had been done in the way of instructing and en-
couraging those who perhaps were in need or in
sorrow. It had been decided that the Sunday
School children give a Christmas entertainment,
and this took place Saturday evening, the 23d.
The matter of preparation was given into the
hands of the sisters, in connection with the
Sunday School officers, and they had nicely
decorated the room with evergreens, flowers,
wreaths, ribbons, and all the little attractions
which women alone know how to create, while
in one corner of the room was a Christmas tree,
brilliantly lighted. At the conclusion of the
exercises, suitable presents were distributed to
the youthful performers, the sisters' contribution
to this fund being to the value of 49.85 francs.
The many visitors to the conference have been
apportioned among the resident members of the
Church by the sisters of this society, and have
been provided with all that was necessary to
make them feel comfortable and at home—in a
word, much of the success of the conference is
due to the exertions of these sisters. It is


thought that the society is entitled to credit for
its labors, and ought to be recognized and re-
ported at home; therefore to the EXPONENT, as
the organ of such organizations in all the world,
the foregoing is respectfully submitted.
	The officers, as they now exist, are: Sister
Magdalena Rohrer, President; Sister Elizabeth
Hachen and Magdalena Rothlisberger, Counsel-
ors; and Sister Rosa Muller, Secretary. In be-
half of the latter, as she cannot write English,
I have prepared, by request of Prest. Goss, the
above items, which were selected from her
report.			Respectfully,
