TOOELE STAKE.

	The Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society, Y. L. M. I. A. and P. A. of Tooele
Stake was held at Grantsville, Saturday and
Sunday, December 9th and 10, commencing at
10 a.m. on Saturday, Mrs. Mary A. Hunter
presiding, Counselor Jane Eastham being
present also. From Salt Lake City, Mrs. M.
I. Horne and H. M. Whitney. There were
also in attendance Apostles F. M. Lyman
and H. J. Grant, and Elder B. S. Young. The
meeting opened with the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, minutes of previous con-

[Column 3]
ference were read and accepted, and Sisters
Hunter, Horne and Whitney each addressed
the people a few minutes, giving good instruc-
tion and counsel to the sisters. Afternoon was
occupied by the Primary Associations, most of
the time being spent in exercises by the chil-
dren. The songs, dialogues and recitations
were well chosen and creditably rendered, and
after the programme was completed, Sisters
Horne and Whitney gave some good advice to
the little folks.
	Evening session was the Young Ladies Con-
ference, and much good counsel and encourage-
ment was given by the sisters to the young
people. Apostle F. M. Lyman exhorted the
parents to be kind to the children, make home
desirable, and not cast off their children, but
try to make their home the best place on earth,
for if even one is lost, there will be a vacant
place, and bring sorrow and trouble into our
family.
	Sunday morning the Sabbath School con-
vened, and the sisters from Salt Lake attended,
made some remarks and questioned the chil-
dren, the little ones replying promptly and sat-
isfactorily. Afternoon meeting, after the sac-
rament was administered, Apostle H. J. Grant
was the first speaker, he spoke considerable
upon the training of children, the necessity of
keeping a promise made to them, in order to
set a good example and preserve their confi-
dence, etc. Apostle F. M. Lyman spoke upon
duties of parents and of children to each other,
and upon celestial marriage and the word of
wisdom, and when closing his remarks, im-
plored the blessings of God upon all who were
trying to do right.
	Conference adjourned until March, to be held
in Tooele.
							ANN TATE,
				Cor. Sec. R. S., Tooele Stake.

