ROCKVILLE, KANE CO.

	We are situated in the tops of the mountains,
as it were, where the Lord has called us to labor;
but notwithstanding our isolation, we can claim
the blessings of our Father in heaven, and he
is just as willing to own us, as he is our more
favored sisters who live near the great lights
that our Father has placed on the earth to
guide his people.


We hold our meetings semi-monthly, and in
our testimony meetings the spirit of the Lord
is poured out abundantly upon the sisters in
the gift of tongues, prophecy, and interpreta-
tion; they are a source of great pleasure to us.
We are called to part with our president,
who is preparing to start for Arizona. The
teachers of the society resolved to give her a
party to express our appreciation of her labors
as president. The schoolhouse was tastefully
decorated for the occasion, under the auspices
of the teachers.
	The society met on the evening of Jan. 3d,
1883, and as the husbands and brothers of the
members were present also, for we desire to
share our joys and sorrows with them, four
large tables were provided, on which was a
most luxurious feast, and even these would not
contain it all Owing to the adroit manage-
ment of our energetic teachers, and the unity
which exists among our sisters, our president
was entirely unconscious of the whole pro-
ceeding, until she, with her husband arrived
at the door, where Bishop C. N. Smith and
his wife "Aunt Lizzie" had escorted them.
After order was restored, Sister Kezia Hall,
manager of the proceedings, addressed Presi-
dent Eleanor C. Morris in a few chosen words,
stating the object of the meeting. After sup-
per, the company was entertained with music,
songs, recitations and remarks from the sisters
and brethren. Sister Amy T. Draper, in be-
half of the teachers, presented a beautiful
album to the president, whose heart was too
full to allow her sentiments to be expressed in
words. Counselor Lizzie C. Smith and
Margaret Brundage, expressed their regret at
losing so faithful a president, also followed by
our esteemed and faithful nurse, Mary Stocks;
after which, the following named teachers
spoke: Marilla T. Allred, Amanda M. Stout,
Sarah Farnes, Clerinda Langston, Henrietta
Stout, Ast. Sec., also Harriet Millet, President
of Shonesburg Society, and Ursulla Gifford,
President of Springdale Society, also Sister
Kezia Hall, of Rockville. Remarks were
made by the following brethren: H. B. Mor-
ris, Bishop C. N. Smith, Counselors James P.
Terry and Wm. Brundage, also C. M. Jen-
nings, Supt. Sunday School. Our worthy
Bishop presented our president with a beauti-
fully bound book of Doctrine and Covenants
as a token of his sincere regard, when she
responded in her quiet way. Sister Kezia
Hall announced that our programme was ex-
hausted, and gave the meeting into the hands
of the Bishop with a request that he or any-
one else could suggest something in which all
could be interested or instructed he expressed
his inability to do so, except a hearty hand-
shaking and God bless you to be given the de-
parting ones. After spending a most enjoyable
evening, in which a spirit of peace and union
prevailed, all felt satisfied and benefitted
with the evening's enjoyment.
