MISCELLANEOUS.

	The tricycle is rapidly becoming popular
among English ladies, and is considered an ex-
hilerating, healthy and fashionable pastime.

	The Crown Princess of Germany has be-
come patroness of a new institution in Berlin
for the training of married women and girls
as nurses in private families.

	Happy is the man who can bring the very
atmosphere of heaven with him whenever he
approaches us!—who acts upon our spirits as
the May breezes act upon the first shoots of
the tulip and the violet! He is a bountiful
giver. He confers on us light; he beams good-
ness into our souls; he teaches us patience; he
showers on us brotherly kindness; he illustrates
for us faith; he exhibits the true beauty of
meekness; he sheds hope by his very presence;
and his unflinching bravery has often been an
inspiration of valor to our failing hearts.
Next to Christ Himself, there is no blessing to
the community like a Christ-like Christian.—
Dr. T. L. Cuyler.

	JUDGE BIDDLE'S OPINION.—Judge Horace
P. Biddle, of the Indiana Supreme Bench,
says: "In a perfect government every human
being that belongs to it should be represented
without distinction of age, sex, nationality,
color, or condition. The legal status of every
member of the state should be the same, leav-
ing each individual to establish his own mental,
moral, social, religious, pecuniary, or any other
personal status, according to his desire, ability
and merit under the law. Whenever any per-
son is mentally too weak from infancy, age,
idiocy, lunacy, or any other cause, to exercise
the right of suffrage, it should be done for him
by his parents, guardian or whoever has the
legal right over his person and property. Such
a government may not be practicable now, per-
haps never can be, but the tendency of all the
free governments of the earth at the present
time is in that direction; and it is the duty of
every government to approximate such a
standard, and as rapidly as the condition of
its people will safely allow."

	Not a thousand years ago, an enormously
wealthy banker of the Hebrew persuasion,
travelling from Munich to Vienna by rail, at
length condescended to enter into conversation
with a carriage companion, and finally went so
far as to say, "You seem to be a good sort of a
fellow and a gentleman. Look here, I am go-
ing to Vienna to see my daughter, who is mar-
ried there, is awfully rich, and keeps a tip-top
house. I will introduce you to her." The
pleasant stranger thanked him and mentioned
that by a curious coincidence he, too, was trav-
elling to Vienna to see his daughter. "Your
daughter, indeed!" said the Jew banker, with


considerable arrogance, "and pray who may
she be?" "The Empress of Austria," was the
calm reply. The stranger was the Duke M[--]
imilian of Bavaria, father of the present E[-]
press of Austria and the ex-Queen of Naple[--]
accompanied by his aide-de-camp. The utter
collapse of the millionaire can be imagined.-
Ex.


