UTAH STAKE.

	Minutes of the seventeenth Quarterly Con-
ference of the Relief Societies of Utah Co.,
held in Provo City, December, 1882.
	Present on the stand. President Margaret
T. Smoot, Counselor M. A. Cluff, Secretary,
etc., visitors from Salt Lake City—Sisters
M. I Horne and E. Howard; a few brethren
of the Priesthood also present. Meeting
opened by singing, prayer and singing.
Minutes of former conference read and ap-
proved.
	President M. I. Smoot said our prayers have
been answered, and we are permitted to meet
again beneath this consecrated roof, while
many who have been wont to meet with us
have been called away to another state of ex-
istence. We have sisters with us to-day from
Salt Lake City, and we will dispatch our busi-
ness so as to hear from them, and give way this
afternoon for the funeral of Mother Needham,
who has gone from our midst; a faithful Lat-
ter-day Saint, and a faithful worker in the
Relief Society. I feel to ask the Lord to bless
and pour out his Spirit upon us all.
	Sister Horne said, the time has come that our
prophets have foretold that would try men's
souls. The Lord is working with the nations
and the adversary is stirring them up to destroy
us. I would say to my sisters, live your re-
ligion, draw nigh unto your God, and He will
help us, let us use the weapon of prayer, let us
fast and pray and hold sweet communion with
the Lord. One of our sisters has been sent to
the penitentiary because she would not testify
against herself and husband. I honor her for
it; our enemies are trying to overthrow us,

[Column 2]
but I know that God rules and will fight our
battles for us if we are faithful and trust Him.
The teachers of the Relief Societies should
pray for the Spirit of God, and never go out
without askiug for his help, that they may en-
courage those they visit. I pray that we may
not be weary in well doing, but gain a seat in
the Celestial Kingdom.
	Sister Howard said, the Lord requires im-
plicit obedience, and if we live our religion, we
will be right. We know what we shall have to
pass through; let us so live that we shall be able
to stand the tests; we must be more on an equal-
ity. Let us not spend so much in dress and
trimmings; let us improve our minds. We
want to come up in the morning of the resur-
rection; we do not want our bodies to lay for
years in the grouud. Let us love one another
till our hearts are full of love.
	Sister Smoot said, we all appreciate Sister
Anna Gallifant for her integrity and courage,
and feel to give her a vote of thanks, which
was responded to unanimously.
	Brother H. H. Cluff said: Sisters, this is
my first meeting with you in conference since
my return from the Sandwich Islands. I have
been pleased at what I have heard in relation
to the teachers of the Relief Societies visiting
in their districts; they can accomplish a great
deal of good in that way, more so than those
that preside over them; they can talk plainer
to the sisters than in the public meetings. The
sisters that live humbly before the Lord, can-
not help doing good, but let not your right
hand know what your left hand doeth.
	Sister Smoot said, we will adjourn and meet
together again this evening. Singing. Bene-
diction.

	Evening Session.—Conference convened at
half-past six; after singing and prayer, the
time was occupied by Sisters Horne and How-
ard instructing the sisters on a variety of sub-
jects all pertaining to our eternal welfaire; ex-
horted the mothers to train their children early
in all good works, teach them to pray, to be
upright and honest, teach them faith in God,
and also to remember the Sabbath day to keep
it holy. Said, we want to become intelligent,
and we must cultivate the talents God has
given us.
	President Smoot followed the sisters with a
few remarks, saying I have been called upon to
make a few remarks to the matrons in Zion.
The teachings you have had are sound, especi-
ally in regard to the training of our children
by the mothers. Among our getting, get wis-
dom, learn to govern your children, the great
secret is union in families; we must learn how
to obtain eternal lives; spoke of the lack of
confidence in God. We must live for eternal
life if we ever gain it. The Kingdom of God
is onward and upward, and we will receive
what we earn. Spoke against Sabbath break-
ing and various other subjects of interest.
	Sister Cluff endorsed what had been said,
and exhorted the sisters to faithfulness and
diligence in their religion.
	Singing. Conference adjourned for three
months. Benediction.
			CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.

