EDITOR'S CHAT.

	THE prejudice which set in so heavily against
Utah and the Mormons, about four years ago,
seems to be giving way a little. Perhaps it has
nearly spent its fury. A spirit of inquiry or
partly curiosity as well, has been incited through
the dreadful extravaganzas that Dame Rumor
has circulated to help overthrow "Mormonism."
There are many intelligent people asking ques-
tions by letters "of the Mormons" themselves,
concerning the practical workings of plura
marriage, its effect upon society, its domestic
embarassments, its physiological and hygeinic
value. Religion—some of these querists do not
care for, they have no faith in it as an abstract
idea, but the sanctity of marriage as a divine
right, belonging as much to woman as to man
to regulate, many believe and claim. It is a
question which is bound to excite special atten-
tion in the world of mankind ere many years
have elapsed—and one which women well know,
cannot be adjusted until the ballot is in their
own hands. But a truce to all this, it is a sub-
ject so complicated, that volumes might be
written upon it without elucidating all its points,
but at present, we have not time or space to
elaborate upon this matter. The anomalous
condition of women, under the peculiar circum-
stances with which this people are environed
round, when one takes into consideration the
Edmunds law in its full force upon men as well
as women, must of itself be an interesting study
to those looking on and disinterested. And it is
not a matter of astonishment after all, that the
question should come from various quarters,
"What will be the action of the Mormons to-
wards the Commissioners?" "How will the
Mormon people regard the Edmunds law?" and
a long list of similar interrogations.
	Notwithstanding the disfranchisement of all
men and women who were even suspected of
having been at any time, living in plural mar-
riage relations, the majority of votes for the can-
didate of the People's Party was very large; and
forsooth to correct this great mistake, which has
been made in allowing men and women to vote
for a candidate who was in every way worthy
the confidence of his constituents—it is found
absolutely necessary now to make another still
more desperate attempt to wrest the ballot from
the hands of the women of Utah. This time,
by urging Congress to annul the act of the Utah
Legislature of 1870, granting suffrage to women.
In doing this, men feel they are perfectly justi-
fied, as Congress has never conferred upon
woman, anywhere, the right to vote. But even
this should they accomplish their design, will
not give the Liberals the balance of power they 
desire, in order to control the public treasuries of
the Territory, and place the People's Party at
the mercy of these mercenary, plotting, schem-
ing federal officials and carpet-baggers. Even
could this fest be accomplished, there will still

[Column 2]
be men enough to outvote the Liberals; for
another year will give Utah more voters—
young men, who will have just attained their
majority, and each succeeding year will add new
recruits of these mountain boys to the list.
	It may not be so easy a matter after all to get
Congress to pass the Cassidy bill—for there are 
leading women in the nation, who feel this in-
volves a point of law, which may work disas-
trously against all women, should Congress thus
decide against women of Utah. It does seem
strange, after all that has been published con-
cerning the election, and the discrimination
against those who were even suspected of ever
having lived in the plural order of marriage,
that there should be an impression that these
plural wives were allowed to vote; making this
one of the pleas for the passage of the Cassidy
bill. The annuling of that act of the Utah
Legislature would bring upon Congress the in-
dignation of all suffrage workers in America and
across the water. Not that members of Congress
who favor it would fear or care, but it would be
a blow that would tell far and near.


[Column 1]
