PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.

	It is a singular fact, and one that any
thoughtful person cannot avoid noticing, that
many of the men and women who first em-
braced the Gospel in this dispensation, were the
direct descendants of those who fled from per-
secution in the old world, to find an asylum in
the new, where they could worship God accord-
ing to the dictates of their own consciences.
And how similar has been the history of this
people to that of the Pilgrim fathers and
mothers. Among this number is the lady who
forms the subject of this sketch. Her gene-
ological record on the father's side (Huntington
was her family name), has been traced to
Simon Huntington, the Puritan immigrant
who sailed from England in 1833, but died at
sea, leaving a widow,Margaret Huntington and
cthree sons. Of Mrs. Kimball's illustrious and
estors was Samuel Huntington, one of the
signers of the Declaration of Independence,
Governor of Connecticut, and President of
the Continental Congress. Wm. Hunting-
ton, grandfather of Mrs. Kimball, and
nephew of Samuel Huntington, was born
in Tolland, Connecticut, and served in the
army through the Revolutionary war. He
moved to New Hampshire in 1784, and
there Mrs. Kimball's father, Wm. Hunt-
ington, was born; he also served in the war
with Great Britain in 1812. In 1804, the
Huntington's removed to Watertown, New
York, and there Presendia Lathrop was born,
also her sister Zina D., whose biography we
published last year in the EXPONENT. These

[Column 2]
two women are descended from a race of patri-
ots, and it is not strange that a generous share
of heroism has descended to them, and that it
very strongly marks the character of the fami-
ly. The Huntington families are intermarried
with the Lathrops, from whom Presendia was
named, and this family was also among
the early New England settlers, one of
whom was the Reverend Samuel Lathrop,
who, for non-conformity, being a preacher
in the First Congregational Church in
London, was imprisoned for two years, and
on being released in 1634, came to America
and was the first minister of Scituate,
Massachusetts.
	Mrs. Kimball's mother was Zina Baker
whose father was one of the first physicians in
New Hampshire, and whose mother descended
from the Dymock's of Sir Edward Dymock,
Queen Elizabeth's champion. Presendia was
the fourth child of her parents, and was born
in Watertown, Jefferson Co., N. Y., September
10, 1810. Mrs. Kimball is said to be the exact
counterpart of the Eliza Huntington whose
likeness is in the book, the record of the Hunt-
ington's, as a type of the race. Sister Presendia
is a woman to see once is to remember always.
She reminds one of the dames of the olden
times, large, tall, grand and majestic in figure,
dignified in manner, yet withal, so womanly
and sympathetic that she seems the embodi-
ment of the motherly element to a degree that
would embrace all who come under her influ-
ence. Truly she may, in every sense of the
word, be termed a mother in Israel in very
deed. Her life has been exceptionally event-
ful. It is impossible to give in a brief sketch
like this even a tithe of her wonderful experi-
ences, but a few items will convey to the reader
something of the life of this good woman, so
rich in faith, so full of integrity to the Gospel,
and will perhaps be beneficial to others, and show
of what material have been the women who
have been foremost in helping to establish the
principles that have called forth so much com-
ment throughout the civilized world. It takes
women of more than ordinary stamina to en-
dure all the stigma, reproach and calumny
that is sure to follow the introduction of any
new ideas, even though they may be for the
progression and advancement of the human
race here and hereafter. The father and
mother of Sister Presendia both became mem-
bers of the Church at a very early date, they
had been Presbyterians of the strictest kind.
	The Huntington's with their family, contrary
to the wishes of their relatives and friends,
shortly after embracing the Gospel as taught
by the Prophet Jeseph, removed to Kirtland,
Ohio, where the saints were gathering together
and assisted in building the Temple in that
place, which is still standing as a testimony to
all the faithful labors of the people of God,
in erecting Temples to the Most High in the
face of the bitterest persecutions. At the time
of the gathering to Missouri, Father and
Mother Hnntington went up to Jackson
County, and shared in the hardships and perils
of that eventful epoch in the history of the
Church. The hardships endured there by
these veterans are too dreadful to contemplate,
and eventually both of them laid down their
lives in consequence of the privations and per-
secutions to which they had been so cruelly
subjected. Faithful and true to the very last
hour of their lives, were these noble saints of
the Most High; descended from those who had
battled for freedom from oppression and nobly
earned the title of freemen for themselves and
their posterity; yet for the self-same reason,
their religious faith compelled them to pass
through the same series of trying ordeals, un-
til death came to their relief. Who shall an-
swer for the noble lives thus sacrificed? Is
there not an avenger of the innocent and suf-
fering of the Saints? Yet these things trans-

[Column 3]
pired under the broad spread folds of the flag
of liberty, freedom to all, religious liberty to
every creed and color. Consider too this was
not on account of the practice of plural mar-
riage, there could be no such excuse then, for
the principle had not yet been revealed.

To be Continued.


