HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. Zina D. H. Young has been invited to
attend the N. W. S. A. Convention to be held
in Lincoln Hall, Washington, D. C., the 23d,
24th and 25th of the present month.

	The Salt Lake Stake Conference was held in
the Assembly Hall, Jan. 6 and 7, and was very
numerously attended. Very impressive dis-
courses were delivered by Prest. John Taylor,
Counselor Joseph F. Smith, and the Presidency
of this Stake of Zion, and it was a time of spirit-
ual refreshing to the Saints.

	IT will be seen by Dr. Ferguson's advertise-
ment that she has removed to the Twelfth
Ward, where she has an office adjoining her
dwelling, and will be glad to receive those who
may be desirous of securing her services as a
physician or surgeon. She has a class in obstet-
rics now well advanced, and would be glad to
teach more in the much needed profession, or in
the art of nursing.

	WE are informed by letter from Mrs. Sarah
M. Dell, Beaver, Utah, that Mrs. Lucy Smith
Milliken, youngest sister of the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and widow of Arthur Milliken, died on
the 9th of December last, her husband died
about eight months previous to her decease.
Lucy Smith, afterwards Milliken, was well-
known to the Saints in the early days of the
Church, and she was also greatly beloved for her
many excellent womanly qualities and graces of
character.

	THE Eighteenth Ward Chapel was dedicated
on Sunday evening, Jan. 14th. The services
were conducted by Elder Robert Patrick, First
Counselor to Bishop Orson F. Whitney, who is
absent upon a mission in Europe. President
John Taylor and President Joseph F. Smith
each addressed the assembly. Counselors D.
O. Calder and Joseph E. Taylor of the Presi-
dency of this Stake of Zion were also present.
President Joe. F. Smith offered the dedicatory
prayer. Elder H. G. Whitney had charge of the
singing. The benediction was pronounced by
President Joseph E. Taylor. The building was
crowded with people. The chapel is a credit to
the people of the ward; it is beautiful in design
and handsomely finished.

	THE entertainment given New Year's night
by the Primary Association of the Eleventh
Ward of this city, under the able management
of Mrs. Louie Felt, was a very creditable affair.
The singing by a hundred and twenty-five
children was well done, and evinced skill and

[Column 2]
perseverance on the part of those who trained
them for the occasion. The selection of songs,
recitations aad dialogues were choice and well
rendered, many of the little ones being quite
young. "The "Sleeping Beauty" was finely
presented, the children being well up in their
parts, and their costumes tasteful and pretty.
The entertainment cleared $41.00, which was
donated to the Deseret Hospital Fund, for the
benefit of that institution.

	ON Sunday evening, December 31, we were
agreeably surprised by receiving a call from Mr.
and Mrs. Henry Marion Howe, of Boston. We
regretted exceedingly that urgent business com-
pelled them to leave the city Monday morning,
so that there was very little opportunity for them
to ascertain facts from observation. Mr. Howe
is the son of the celebrated Mrs. Julia Ward
Howe, poet, lecturer and journalist, belongs to
the staff of editors of the Woman's Journal, pub-
lished in Boston. She is very popular as a
speaker, in America and Europe, and is an
ardent suffragist and strong supporter of the en-
franchisement of all women.

	ON the 21st of January, the venerable pioneer
lady, Eliza R. S. Smith, poetess of Zion, and
widow of the Prophet Joseph, will reach the
great age of seventy-nine years, with faculties
bright and active, physical health excellent, still
wielding her pen ably in defense of the truth,
visiting the sick, comforting the sorrowing, and
ministering in holy places: she has nobly earned
the title "Mother in Israel." Side by side with
Sister Eliza is another pioneer woman in the
glorious work, Sister Zina; for years these two
women have been closely associated, and their
names are linked together tenderly among the
Saints. Sister Zina D. H. Young will be sixty-
two years old on the 31st day of the present
month. Sister Eliza and Sister Zina, are house-
hold words in Utah, and long may they be asso-
ciated together and work for the elevation of
woman and the establishment of Christ's king-
dom upon the earth.

	ON Friday, Jan. 12, there was a special meet-
ing of the Relief Society of Mill Creek Ward
in the Meeting House, commencing at 10 a.m.
There was an excellent attendance of the peo-
ple in that vicinity, and several sisters from the
city, were present by invitation. Sisters Eliza
R. S. Smith, Zina D. H. Young, M. Isabella
Horne, Helen Mar. Whitney, Sarah M. Kimball
and Maria W. Wilcox, also Sister Elizabeth
Howard from Big Cottonwood. At intermission,
a sumptuous repast was served in the vestry,
and the time was spent in social enjoyment.
There was an afternoon session at 2 p.m., which
gave ample time for the transaction of business
and for all who desired, to have an opportunity
of speaking. Addresses were made by each of
the ladies mentioned, also by several of the local
sisters, and a goodly time of refreshing was en-
joyed. Such meetings promote good feelings
and encourage those who labor in benevolent
work to persevere in well doing.

	THE Unity Club, recently organized in this
city for improvement and charitable purposes,
has given two evening entertainments in the
Twelfth Ward Assembly Rooms, each time to
crowded and appreciative audiences. The first
was given the evening of Jan.4, and was an un-
qualified success. The demand for its repetition
was so great that the Club finally decided to re-
produce it, with some few changes in the pro-
gramme. Those who figured on the boards in
the several parts, deserve praise for the credit-
able manner in which they acquitted themselves.
Miss Ada Dwyer, in her rendering of Lady
Macbeth in the sleep walking scene, surpassed
the expectations of her most ardent admirers, and
showed her[-]elf quite at home in the character.


Miss Adams as Isabel at the deathbed of her
boy, evinced thorough training and adaptability.
The singing of Mesdemoiselles Agnes Olsen,
Prissie Jennings and Louie Wells, was charm-
ing, and the piano accompaniments by Daynes,
as well as his opening piece, were, of course, per-
fect. Mesdames Wells and Thatcher delighted
the lovers of music with the fine execution of
choice pieces, and the tableaux gave the finish-
ing touch to the artistic programme. The best
among these was "Cornelia, the mother of the
Gracchi," which was beautifully represented; and
"Lady Jane Grey," which was also well taken;
"The Good Old days of Yore" was very character-
istic, and was well presented. The committee
of young ladies have shown good taste as well as
executive ability, and their success is indeed
well earned, for they worked earnestly and with
untiring energy, and they certainly deserve
great credit. Bishop H. B. Clawson, who is
perfectly at home in matters pertaining to the
stage, both on the platform and behind the
scenes, rendered the committee the most
efficient aid, and the benefit of his advice and
skill, helped much to make the affair not only a
success, but a pleasure to all who attended.


