GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 679 spinal cord grown through and through with devil grass and wild oats? Will you let him come and take his place, gaining through your experience, happy in your friendships, hallowed through your joys building on them his own? Or will you fling it all away, decreeing wanton-like, that the man you might have been shall never be? This is your problem in lifethe problem which is vastly more to you than any or all others. How will you meet it? As aman or asa fool? It comes before you today and every day and the hour of your choice is the crisis in your destiny David Starr Jordan. In the unearthed bones of forgotten peoples traces of syphilis are found. D. Comments. From the material presented the following conclusions seem certain: 1. PO Re That the yearning for purity reaches upward for help. David pleaded for a reacquaintance with purity. That purity of heart assures an at-home-ness with the Lord. That purity of life makes men pure without from within until their countenances are a symbol of divinitytheir fathers' name is on their "foreheads." That sin dust blinds our conscience. Zion spells social purity as well as personal cleanliness. That impurity is a bar to the privileges of the first resurrection. That purity is related to our missionary system and temple ordinances, both as cause and effect. The desires and dreams of missionary experience are accompanied by a purity standard of a high order. Gospel ambassordship demands purity of life and the expectancy of a mission is an inward call to keep clean, to keep fit for the blessings of the House of the Lord. The glorifying of the missionary work is, in all its phases, religion applied to the problem of purity. That impurity carries over beyond the grave. That an early-age acquaintance with the word of God is a life-belt on the seat of temptation.. That poetry and philosophy proclaim purity there is no worthwhile ideality without purity.. That we may lock the doors of our minds against the invasions of the unclean.. That the entertainment of the pure abashes the impure.. That scout work is one of the best allies to our religion. The boy on his honor is knighted a preserver of his own purity and a defender of the purity of others. The scout- 
 life with the ambitions, expectations, and achievements give to the youth a puritanic sphere of activity full of adventure and upward thrills. 14. That the "Strength of Being Clean" contains within its covers condensed purity food. 15. That impurity "will out." Nature refuses to keep the secrets of sin. 16. That strength and beauty, survival and salvation, are the fruits of purity.