Amy Brown Lyman President Clarissa Smith Willtams, sixth General President of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was released with honor at the General Conference of the Church on October 7, 1928. In presenting her release, President lTeber J. Grant expressed his personal appreciation and the appreciation of the Church generally for the excellent administration of President Williams, and for her long and faithful service in the Relief Society. President Williams' release was not a surprise to those who attended the Relief Society conference on October 4. At that time, in her closing address, she stated that it was not her desire to remain in active service indefinitely, and that she might at any time retire as an officer in the organization. She called attentior to the fact that she has always advocated that Relief Society women do not hold office too long, as there are many capable women and offices should rotate. Mrs. Williams was appointed General President of the Relief Society on April 1, 1921, and has served in this capacity seven and a half years. Previous to this appointment she held many positions of trust in the organization; in fact her service is unique in that it began so early in her life, has been continuous, and has comprehended such a variety of activities. At the age of 16 she was a visiting teacher. She was later secretary and then president of the 17th ward Relief Society. She served for a number of years as stake secretary of the old Salt Lake stake; and when this stake was divided into four stakes, she was made president of the division which retained the name of Salt Lake stake. On November 7, 1901, she was appointed a member of the General Board of Relief Society, and also treasurer of the. Board. At April conference of the Church in 1911, she was appointed first counselor to President Emmeline B. Wells. This 
 position she held until the retirement of Mrs. Wells on April 1, 1921, when she was appointed General President. In addition to her Church work President Williams has taken active interest in civic, patriotic, and community organizations. She is a charter member of the Utah Society of the Daughters of the Revolution, a charter member of the State Society of the Daughters of the Pioneers, a member of the Author's Club and of the Friendship Circle. During the World War she served as a member of the Red Cross Civilian Relief Committee, and was state chairman of the Women's Committee of the National Council of Defense. In connection with her labors in the Relief Society, Mrs. Williams has traveled extensively among the stakes and missions of the Church. She has also represented her organization at various meetings of the National Council of Women of the United States; and in 1914 she attended the Quinquennial Meeting of the International Council of Women in Rome, Italy, where she was a United States National Council delegate. The love and respect of the women of the Relief Society go with President Williams in her retirement. There was perhaps never an officer in any organization more greatly beloved and appreciated, or more honestly admired. As one stake president recently remarked, "She has been a true representation and embodiment of the ideals of the women of the organization." President Williams is first of all a Latter-day Saint, living up to the requirements of the Gospel, and putting into practice those things which she has advocated for others. She is also an excellent example of those who aim to live the Golden Rule. She has been most fortunate in her background and heritagean illustrious daughter of an illustrious father. Like her father, President George A. Smith, she is a person with kindness of heart, breadth of vision, liberality of views, honesty of purpose, straightforwardness of action; she is wise in decision, brave and courageous. From her mother she inherited gentleness and mildness, which are always in evidence; but when occasion requires, she can arise with vigor and even aggression in defense of a principle or in defense of what seems to her the right. She is possessed of qualities of heart and mind which go to make up true womanhood, including, among others, rare charm, poise, and culture. She is an executive of rare ability, presiding at meetings with grace and dignity, conducting business with wisdom, fairness, and dispatch, and showing the greatest consideration, courtesy, and honor to her fellow-officers. It has been a joy and satisfaction to all who have served with her in her various official capacities. The administration of Clarissa Smith Williams will always stand out as one of advancement and progress. Under the able leadership of herself and her associates the Relief Society has gone CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS 641 forward, making concerted effort to meet, as fully as possible, the needs of the day. Ever mindful of the original objects and purposes of the Society, the spirit of the work in every vital feature has been preserved. The past history and traditions have been honored and respected, and have ever been a guide. The unchangeable spiritual features have prevailed and have been fostered and emphasized. But the organization has not been satisfied to rest contentedly and solely on the laurels of the past, and in its educational, humanitarian, and practical work, it has aimed to take into consideration all recent advancement, to adjust itself to meet the new and changing needs of society, and to meet them in the most intelligent manner and with the most approved methods. It has realized that the old trial and error method is expensive and slow, and has made an effort to profit from the study, experience, and research of the day. It has taken into account the fact that, in health and welfare work, emphasis has shifted from efforts of cure to efforts of prevention, and in educational work from mere subject-matter to the study of the student himself and his behavior. Some of the outstanding pieces of work fostered by President Williams are the systematic study of social problems. In connection with this topic a Social Service Department has been established at Relief Society headquarters which has served as a laboratory for demonstration and training; the centralization of the wheat fund and the consecration of the interest thereof to health and maternity work; and the establishment of the Relief Society Memorial Loan Funds. With a view of improving the humanitarian work of the Society regular study in the field of social service has been introduced in every ward and branch. This study has included child welfare, poverty, disease, crime, employment, economic conditions, leisure-time activities, etc. In addition social service institutes have been held for the training of local workers and for the purpose of assisting them in solving some of their practical problems. For this work, a laboratory or department for experimental purposes and for training purposes has been established at Relief Society headquarters. Beginning in 1919, it has developed into a service unit, which is conducted according to the best standards of such work, and which meets some of the needs of the organization. At the time of the World War, a governmental ruling was made that no individual or group would be permitted to store food or food stuffs. The Relief Society wheat was everywhere converted into cash, and each ward that had previously had on hand a supply of wheat now had a cash wheat fund. The original Purpose of storing grain was to help in times of scarcity or famine; and from the time of the inauguration of the movement 
 in 1876 till the time of the World War, many of the wards in the Church had continuously a supply of wheat on hand. With a desire to best hold and preserve this great wheat trust fund for any future humanitarian emergency or need, and believing that in the meantime the interest of the fund might be used in conserving and saving human lifewhich would be in direct accord with the original purpose of the grain-saving movement President Williams made the following recommendations: that the wheat trust fund be centralized in the Presiding Bishop's Office, and that the interest accruing therefrom be used annually for health and maternity purposes. The recommendation was approved by the General Authorities of the Church and adopted by the women of the organization. Maternity bundles and cabinets have been established, clinics have been supported, and Relief Society women have co-operated freely with the various state health departments in carrying out the provisions of the Sheppard-Towner Act. The consolidation of the Relief Society wheat fund, and the consecration of the interest of this fund to health and maternity work, has already been far-reaching in its results, with untold benefits derived. Soon after her appointment, President Williams recommended the establishment of memorials to the past presidents of the Relief Society; her recommendation was eagerly adopted. The object of the memorials was to be two-fold, namely to honor the past presidents and to foster important Relief Society projects. The memorials established are as follows: the Eliza R. Snow Relief Society Memorial Prize Poem Fund, which provides first and second prizes yearly for poems, the prize poems being later printed in the Relief Society Magazine; the Zina D. H. Young Relief Society Memorial Nurse Loan Fund, which provides loans for under-graduate nurses who may need assistance during their hospital courses; the Bathsheba W. Smith Relief Society Memorial Temple Grant, which provides an amount yearly for temple work for women, and which is sent to the temple in rotation; the Emmeline B. Wells Relief Society Memorial Loan Fund established at the Brigham Young University for women of the upper classes. In appreciation of her efforts, which resulted in the establishment of these memorials, and with a desire to show their love, appreciation and esteem to President Williams, their living president, the women of the Relief Society in 1926, under their own supervision and direction presented President Williams with an honor fund, with the request that she name its use. President Williams has dedicated this fund as a Loan Fund for Public Health Nurses, and it is her earnest hope that before many years every community will be supplied with at least one public health nurse to assist in safeguarding the health of the people. Many have already profited, and others will profit, by the provisions of CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS 643 these funds, and will be enabled to accomplish what otherwise would have been impossible. Although Mrs. Williams has given so much of her time to Relief Society work and to public work generally, she has been first and foremost a home-maker and mother. She is hospitable, and in ne role is she more charming than in that of hostess. Her beautiful home is always open to her family and friends, who are received with a hearty welcome. She is a devoted and loving mother to her large family of children, and is never happier than when she is surrounded by her children and her grandchildren. In all her Relief Society work President Williams has had the interested support of her husband, so that she always thinks of her work in connection with the aid he constantly gave her. This was the more remarkable when we take into consideration the fact that Mr. Williams was prominent in the business life of Salt Lake City and active in civic and political organizations. No doubt her husband would pay her the same tribute were he living; for it is undoubtedly true that, in a large measure, the success of each was due to the sympathetic understanding and help of the other. Our Tree By Merling Dennis Clyde Somehow, when I look at our Christmas-tree, It seems so wise and knowing, As if there were one of the family Through all its tinsel showing. It's way after Christmas, and I really should Put everything away; But, somehow, I just can't begin Does it really beg to stay? As it stands dressed up in its pretty things Oh that dignified symmetry! It whispers, "Please don't disturb me now,'" With a tree's rare coquetry.