GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 681 THE LITERATURE COURSE We promised to publish, at as early a date as possible, the price list of the books for the new literature course: "Nowadays" is listed at $1.75; "The Devil's Disciple," at $1.00; '""What Every Woman Knows," at $1.00; "Joseph and His Brethren," at 75c; "The Doll's House," at 80c. "He and She" cannot be obtained separately. It is published in a book of American Plays by Quinn. As a consequence we have decided to substitute for "He and She" Galsworthy's "Justice," which sells at 75c. We are asking the Deseret Book Company to keep these books in stock to accommodate the organizations and individuals that care to purchase them. Whether they are purchased or not is at the option of each ward and stake. We wish to give our members all the help we can, but are anxious that no help offered shall in any sense prove a burden. That is why we emphasize the fact that it is entirely optional whether these books are purchased or not. We shall continue, as in the past, to devote as much space to the literature lesson as the size of the magazine will permit. We would draw the attention of our members to the fact that many of the college libraries located in many of the cities have these books upon their shelves; also that practically all the public libraries carry a good many volumes of modern drama. Recently the president of the Alpine stake sent for our list in order to put the set of books in a collection in the American Fork Library, which has been placed there to the honor of their late president, Mrs. Annie Hindley. Public libraries are always eager to serve the community; and if the officers will present them with lists of books that are to be used extensively in the community, they are eager, as a rule, to receive the list and make the purchase. LESSON III Literature (Third Week in February) BIOGRAPHY George Bernard Shaw is the most brilliant of living British playwrights. His public addresses are full of keen and clever statements that can come only from one whose mind scintillates continuously, as does the mind of George Bernard Shaw. He is a satirist, keen and cutting. One of his critics talks about his "razor-like" thrusts. No matter what may be said to him he always has a ready reply. We have heard a good many addresses 
 by eminent people but have never heard one with quite the ready comeback to all questioners as an address delivered to the teachers of London by George Bernard Shaw in 1911. He was born in Dublin on the 26th of July, 1856. His father was a retired civil servant, the younger son of Bernard Shaw, high sheriff of Kilkenny. His mother was Luncinda Elizabeth Gurly Shaw, a good musician who eventually became a teacher of singing in London. George Bernard Shaw attended school in Dublin, and at the age of fifteen began earning his own living. For five years he was a clerk in the office of an Irish land-agent going to London with his family in 1876: In 1879 he was in the offices of the Edison telephone company. At this time he had already started writing novels, but had not yet found a market for them. His first publications appear as serials in a monthly magazine Our Corner. These were The Irrational Knot, written in 1880 and Love Among the Artists, written in 1881. Mr. Shaw joined the Fabian Society in 1884 and became active in socialistic propaganda as a street orator and also a pamphleteer. He began journalism through the influence of William Archer, on the reviewing staff of the Pall Mall Gazette in 1885. In his role of art and musical critic he was a very brilliant reviewer. It is said that he thought some of the dramas he had to review so stupid that he sought to relieve the situation by writing some plays of his own. That he has helped to raise the quality of English drama no one competent to judge will deny. His dialogue is brilliant beyond that of most gifted playwrights. He is a disciple of Ibsen. Some of Mr. Shaw's most important plays are Arms and the Man which was produced in 1894; Candida'written in 1894; The Man of Destiny, a Napoleonic drama written in 1895; You Never Can Tell, written in 1896; The Devil's Disciples, which was produced in New York in 1897 and in London in 1899; Caeser and Cleopatra, written in 1898; Captain Brassbound's Conversion, 1898; The Admirable Bashville, 1903; Man and Superman, published in 1903; The Doctor's Dilemma, in 1906; Androcles and the Lion; Back to Methusalah; and Saint Joan. Man and Superman and Saint Joan are considered his greatest plays. In 1898 he married Charlotte Frances Payne-Townsend, a woman who appears to be able to enter with him into all his work. George Bernard Shaw has always been very much interested in extending to women those rights and privileges which were justly hers. Among the men who worked hard to obtain suffrage for the British women no one was more conspicuous in this than the gifted playwright. His wife made a trip to Boston for the sole purpose of taking part in the suffrage parade with the women of that city. When invited to'ride she refused, stating GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 683 that she would prefer to march with the women of that city. He lives in the city of London and his rooms are so close to those of Sir James Matthew Barrie, the famous Scotch playwright, that they can talk out of the window to each other. Practically everything he says has news value. 'Papers all over the world will publish any comment with which he will favor them. THE DEVIL'S DISCIPLE By George Bernard Shaw The play has its setting in the state of New Hampshire in the year 1777. It opens in the main room of a house where most of the occupants are interested in the fire because the morning is very cold. It is the home of Mrs. Dudgeon. She is a Puritan of the strictest type, one, as Shaw points out, of a bitter temper and fierce pride. She has an unquestioned reputation for piety and respectability, but is generally a very disagreeable woman, so disagreeable that some of her neighbors who do not hold to her strict rules of conduct think she must be exceedingly good because she is so disagreeable. She prides herself on never having missed a Sunday at the Church, but her religion has not developed in her an attitude of sympathy or kindness towards her fellowmen. She perhaps finds herself in the same category as some Christians, of whom Swift spoke when he said they had just enough religion in them to make them hate their neighbors. With her in the room is a girl she calls Essie, who is the illegitimate child of her husband's brother, who had just been hanged at Springtown. Her husband went to see the hanging, then fell sick, and died during the night. Dick Dudgeon, her eldest son, is the first caller of the morning, consequently is the first one to bring an account of the hanging. As the matter has been planned the minister is to break the news to Mrs. Dudgeon of the death of her husband, but her son Richard really does it before the minister arrives. Mrs, Dudgeon is not overly proud of her two sons, as the following passage will disclose. She says: "A nice comfort my children are to me! One son a fool, and the other a lost sinner that has left his home to live with smugglers, gypsies, and villians, the scum of the earth!" Mrs. Dudgeon is very severe in her treatment of: Essie as shown by the entrance of the half-wit into the room a little earlier in the scene when she says: "Why, who are you?" The girl responds shyly, "Essie." To which Mrs. Dudgeon responds: "Oh, you may well ask. Go to your room, child, and lie down since you haven't feeling enough to keep you awake. Your history is notfit for your own ears to hear." The child said: "I" 
 Mrs. Dudgeon: "Do not answer me, miss, but show your obedience by doing what I tell you; and do not forget to say your prayers. She'd have gone to bed last night just as if nothing had happened if I'd have let her." Finally Mr. Anderson, the minister, arrives. Mrs. Dudgeon is one of those women who feel that it is necessary to show a good deal of distress. At the news of her husband's death. That there is much hypocrisy in her sorrow is evinced by the fact that she makes such a fuss over her husband's decision when the will is read. Just before the reading of the will something occurs that discloses the real character of the woman who believes herself to be a very righteous person, as also the real character of her son whom she thinks of as a disciple of the devil. Richard asks: "By the way, did I hear, or did I not, that our late lamented Uncle Peter, though unmarried, was a father?" Uncle Titus: "He had only one irregular child, sir." Richard: "It touches me profoundly, Pastor. By the way, what has become of the irregular child?", Anderson: (pointing to Essie ) "There, sir, listening to you." Richard: (shocked into sincerity.) "What! Why the devil didn't you tell me that before? Children suffer enough in this house without(He hurries remorsefully to Essie.) Come, little cousin! Never mind me: it was not meant to hurt you. (She looks up gratefully at him. Her tear-stained face affects him violently, and he bursts out, in a transport of wrath): "Who has been making her cry? Who has been ill-treating her?" Mrs. Dudgeon: "Silence your blasphemous tongue. I will bear no more of this. Leave my house." Richard: "How do you know it is your house until the will is read?" _ The reading of the will discloses the facts that: "T give and bequeath a hundred pounds to my younger son Christopher Dudgeon. I give and bequeath to my wife Annie Dudgeon an annuity of fifty-two pounds a year for life to be paid out of the interest on her own money." Mrs. Dudgeon: "A very good way to put God's truth. It was every penny my own." "I give and bequeath my house at Websterbridge with the land belonging to it and all the rest of my property to my eldest son and heir, Richard Dudgeon, on conditions that he shall not let my brother Peter's natural child starve or be driven by want to an evil life." We learn later that the British soldiers in their desire to terrorize rebels have made up their mind to execute somebody at Websterbridge, just as they executed Richard's Uncle Peter at Springtown. It has been whispered about that either Richard GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 685 Dudgeon or the minister, Mr Anderson, is to be sacrificed. Dick has heard that the minister is to be made an example of and the minister has heard that it is Dick Dudgeon. The minister sends for Dick and he arrives just about tea time. Judith, his wife, thinks Dick a very ungodly sort of person, and resents through facial expression her husband's suggestion that Dick stop and have tea, but finally, out of consideration of her husband, she says that she would like to have him remain. Just as they are about to pour the tea, Christy comes with a message that his mother is very ill and wishes the minister to come at once. Mr. Anderson has scarcely left the home when British soldiers appear at the door. They arrest Dick Dudgeon for the minister. He indicates to Judith that she must not betray him and so he places the minister's cloak on his shoulders and accepts the offer of a last minute to say good-bye to Judith. Suddenly it occurs to Mrs. Anderson that Dick has been very much misjudged, that under a rough and crude exterior he really possesses the essence of a Christian character. He tells her hurriedly to have her husband get out of the way, that it will not save his life fdr her husband to give himself up, as they will undoubtedly hang them both. As he leaves the room, he urges her to kiss him so that the officers may be misled. This she does. As she does so, she falls into a swoon. Her husband arrives soon after the officers have departed with Dick. He cannot understand the confused condition in which he finds her and feels for a moment that Dick has in some way insulted her. Finally the truth comes to light, and then she implores her husband to go and give himself up and thus bring about the release of Richard Dudgeon. This he refuses to do, but at once arranges for a fast horse and departs with nearly all the money they have in the house. Mrs. Anderson is as much surprised at what her husband does as she was at what Dick did. She goes to the prison to see Dick and finally gets permission to attend the trial. She is incensed that it should be such a sham. Finally the officers in charge decide that Richard Dudgeon, who they think is Anderson, the minister, shall be hanged at twelve o'clock. Richard tells his prosecutors or persecutors, which ever you please to call them, that if the townspeople had listened to him they would have found the streets barricaded, the houses loopholed, and the people in arms to hold the town. But, said he, "you arrived unfortunately before we got out of the talking stage.' Major Swindon, indignant that Dudgeon should dare to talk to him in this way, replied: "Well, sir, we shall teach you and your townspeople a lesson they will not forget. Have you anything more to say?" Richard: "I think you might have the decency to treat me as a prisoner of war, and shoot me like a man instead of hanging me like a dog." 
 Burgoyne: (sympathetically.) 'Now there, Mr. Anderson, you talk like a civilian, if you will excuse my saying so. Have you any idea of the average marksmanship of the army of His Majesty King George the Third? If we make you up a firing 'party, what will happen? Half of them will miss you: the rest will make a mess of the business and leave you to the provostmarshal's pistol. Whereas we can hang you in a perfectly workmanlike and agreeable way." The time approaches for the execution and Richard stands there with the noose about his neck and his eyes on the clock. In the meantime they have discovered that it is not the minister but Dick Dudgeon that they are about to hang. About a minute before the hanging takes place Anderson arrives at the head of the rebel troop and the town falls into the hands of the Americans. Dick is released, very much to Essie's joy, who cannot keep back the tears. Good-humoredly but wilfully Richard says to her: "Now, now. Come, come! I don't mind being hanged, but I will not be cried over." The Problem of the Play The problem in this play is manifestly an endeavor to discover which is the saint and which the sinner. Mrs. Dudgeon, feeling she has followed all the rules of Puritan conduct, naturally imagines that she is a very righteous person; while Dick, who rebels against the conventions of his day, is very naturally regarded by the people of the community as being decidedly unrighteous. Yet, when put to the test, Dick is willing to give his life for the minister, whose wife feale that it is an abuse for her to drink tea with him. Consequently, he that was least amongst them became the greatest of them all when measured by the true rule of righteous conduct. Questions and Problems 1. What type of woman is Mrs. Dudgeon? 2. Do you think that the Puritan religion had a tendency to produce women of that sort? 3. What do you think of Mrs. Dudgeon's treatment of Essie? 4. What person in the play has a modern attitude towards Essie? 5. Do you call to mind any instances in your experience where convention has a tendency to make a saint out of the sinner and a sinner out of the saint? GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 687 LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in February) THE CHILD STUDY COURSE Lesson XI. The Treatment and Prevention of Delinquency. (Based on Chapter XII, The Child: His Nature and His Needs.) In the last four lessons we have been considering the physical and mental health of the child. We are now going to look at certain aspects of character development, and for this purpose shall consider the principles underlying the modern treatment of juvenile delinquency. This chapter was written by Dr. William Healy, at the present time director of the Judge Baker Foundation in Boston, a child guidance clinic connected with the Boston Juvenile Court. It should be said here that Dr. Healy is a pioneer in the scientific study of delinquency and crime. It was his scientific study of one thousand repeated offenders* in the Chicago Juvenile Court some fifteen years ago which began the movement for a scientific study of delinquency and the child guidance clinic as forms of prevention. A, Some Recent Studies. One of the most recent bits of scientific work in the field of delinquencystimulated by Dr. Healyis that of Dr. Cyril Burt, psychologist to the London County Council, and reported in his book The Young Delinquent (Appleton, 1925). Dr. Burt's method of studying delinquents was fundamentally the same as Dr. Healy's in that he studied actual cases in order to discover his facts and draw his conclusions. His method differed from Dr. Healy's, however, in that he measured his delinquent group by a group of non-delinquent boys and girls of the same age and circumstances. By a rather elaborate statistical method, he discovered the following, in the order of their statement, as the causes of delinquency in his two hundred cases: "(1) defective discipline; (2) specific instincts; (3) general emotional instability; (4) morbid emotional conditions, mild rather than grave, generating or generated by so-called complexes; (5) a family history of vice or crime; (6) intellectual disabilities, such as backwardness or dullness; (7) detrimental interests, such as a passion for adventure, for the cinema, or for some particular person, together with a lack of any uplifting pursuits; (8) developmental con- *See his book The Individual Delinquent, Little, Brown Company, 1919. 
 ditions, such as adolescence or precocity in growth; (9) a family history of intellectual weakness; (10) defective family relationshipsthe absence of a father, the presence of a stepmother; (11) influences operating outside the homeas bad street companions and lack or excess of facilities for amusement; (12) a family history of temperamental disorderof insanity or the like; (13) a family history of physical weakness; (14) poverty and its concomitants; and, last of all, (15) physical infirmity or weakness in the child himself." Among his other conclusions may be noted the following: "On an average, each delinquent child is the product of nine or ten subversive circumstances, one as a rule preponderating and all conspiring to draw him into crime." "Every cause and every influence, however, no matter what its special form may be, is found to operate and can only operate through its inner psychological effects. Conduct and misconduct are always, in the last analysis, the outcome of mental life." B. Classification of Causes All scientific studies of delinquency confirm each other in the conclusion that delinquency may be caused in a variety of ways. The terms "delinquency" and "crime" are generic ones and are comparable to the terms "sickness' and "disease" in the field of medicine. That is to say, the terms are very general and apply to a large group of widely different things. The significance of this fact, however, is that if progress in the treatment and prevention of delinquency is to be achieved, it must be realized in much the same way it was achieved in the treatment and prevention of disease, viz., by the isolation of specific forms, types, patterns, etc. That is to say, delinquency cannot be dealt with effectively as a whole, any more than diseases can be effectually treated or prevented en bloc. Just as there is no one universal panacea or palliative for all disease, neither is there one universal treatment or cure-all for delinquency. This list of known causes of delinquency is so long and varied that we have attempted the following simple classification: Classification of Causes of Delinquency I. Factors Which Enfeeble Social Control. A. Chronic. 1. Inherent defects in the political order, e. G., in law, in government, in politics, 2. Inherent defects in the economic order, e. G., low wages, unemployment, etc. 3. Inherent defects in the social order, e. G., in the family system, in education, in the standard of living, etc. 4, Urbanization, e. G., migration, mobility, anonymity, etc. GUIDE LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY 689 5. Physical environment, e. G., geographic or climatologic handicaps. 6. Changing modes and group conflict, e. G., with regard to sex; use of alcohol, tobacco, etc. B. Acute. 7. Family disorganization, e. G., death of parent, nonsupport, incompatibility, etc. 8. Neighborhood disorganization, e. G., poor housing, unwholesome assoctations, etc. 9. Governmental disorganization, e. G., graft, maladministration of law and justice, etc. 10. Inadequate educational activities, e. G., amount and quality of secular, religious and vocational instruction. 11. Inadequate avocational facilities, e. G., unwholesome leisure interests and lack of facilities. II. Factors Which Enfeeble Self-Control. A. Chronic. 12. Inherited or acquired physical handicap, e. G., stature, deformity, constitutional weakness, etc. 13. Inherited or acquired mental handicap, e. G., feeblemindedness, psychopathic personality, epilepsy, etc. B. Acute. 14. Physical injury or disease, e. G., accident, tuberculosis, syphilis, etc. 15. Mental disease, e. G., psychoses, psych-neuroses, mental conflicts, etc. 16. Age and physiological epoch, e. G., adolescence, etc. 17. Personal disorganization from excesses, e. G., sex; use of alcohol, narcotics, etc. 18. Ignorance, e. G., lack of sophistication, faulty perspective, etc. 'We concur in the position taken by Dr. Cyril Burt that these causes of delinquency are far from peculiar to delinquent persons and situations. ''With children of the same social class," says he, "identical conditions may co-exist without plunging them into a criminal career. It must, therefore, as a rule be either the number of factors, or the particular combination of them that renders delinquency a probable result." C. The Work of a Child Guidance Clinic We made some reference, it will be recalled, in a previous lesson, to the mental hygiene movement and to the activities of the modern child guidance clinics. These clinics combine the services of the physician, the psychiatrist, the psychologist, and the psychiatric social worker. Their primary function is to diagnose and treat cases of conduct disorder in children. They are usually 
 maintained in connection with public schools, juvenile courts, _hospitals, universities, etc. They are strictly scientific in their procedure and are sometimes organized to promote research and the training of workers. Cases coming before these clinics are usually referred by judges, social workers, teachers, parents, etc. Each case is exhaustively studied from the following standpoints: Family background, Home conditions, Physical history, Present physical condition, Intelligence, Special abilities or disabilities, Temperament and character, Scheol attainment, Occupation, Recreation and leisure activities, Life history, Delinquency, The child's own history, ete. It has been found that it is far more efficient and humane to deal with children's misconduct in this scientific way than to resort to the old, dubious process of punishment. Next in importance to the advent of the juvenile court itself in the treatment of juvenile delinquency is the development of the modern child guidance clinic, with its scientific analysis and treatment of the causes of misconduct. Questions 1. What are the essential conclusions of Dr. Healy in regard to the causes and cures of delinquency? 2. Why is it important to accurately discover the causes of delinquency? 3. What is a juvenile court? How does it differ from any other court? 4, How much juvenile delinquency is there in your community? Is it increasing or decreasing? 'Can you get any reliable statistics on the subject? Why not? 5. Is there a juvenile court serving your community? Is it strictly modern and forward-looking? Does the judge employ scientific methods in determining the causes and treatment of delinquency in the children who come before him? Why is not your community more up-to-date in this respect? 6. Outline a program for the prevention and treatment of delinquency in your community. New Players Used Players....$155 Long, Easy Terms oo $283 | "Music in the Home puts Sunshine in the H (a ' 2 qn hte | | ia m r Wit * ih |) =r oe le 10 Sends it Home & Free Delivery in Salt Lake or Vicinity or Freight Paid to Any R. R. Station in Utah. Brand New PIANOS You would scarcely expect to find a piano like this selling under the $300 or $350 figure but you can get one during this sale at $187 and $10 sends it home, with a beautiful full size case. *187 Brand New PLAYERS What a world of pleasure EVERY member of the family could get from one of these fine PlayerPianos! Get one during this sale at a figure that's within $8 of Y% price, with a lot of duat bench to match! BRAND-NEW word rolls of your own choice. *283 Brand New GRANDS A beautiful brand-new baby grand at a price you'd ordinarily expect to pay for an upright. Every home hopes someday to own a grand. Here's your chance. *357 New and Used RADIOS Most complete line in the WestMajesticc Atwater KentsCrosleys Brunswicks  Amrads SteinitesR C A'sall on easy terms. We have good EXCHANGED radios as low as A9 iit Terms AN. ORGAN FOR THE WARD? Call or Write for Catalogs Daynes-Beebe Music Co. "Older Than The State of Utah" 61 to 65 South Main Street, Salt Lake City 1  When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Daynes-Beebe's Great Harvest Festival HUGE SAVINGS On Every Kind of Musical Instrument What Mother Really Wants Most of all, comfort and joy and opportunity and robust health, the desire and the time to do the things an alert mind promptsthese are the things everyone wants. Women, enslaved by managing a household equipped with old-fashioned ranges, with tubs and washboards, with brooms, the sad iron of the sad days of yorethey have no time for these health-building, recreational activities and social pursuits. Electric servants are needed in these homes and under our convenient payment plan they are easily acquired. Decide to drive household drudgery out of your home and give mother something electrical for Christmasa gift that will give years of service and be a constant reminder of the affection that prompted its giving. Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service _ Her cargo full of countless wealth Of joy and hope and human health. (HRISTMAS (REETINGS 1928 ~~ BUY CHRISTMAS SEALS 95% of the Money remains in Utah "jp [- When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine =~ G ) ] We should'a drunk waote milk when we wuz ids~ At Less. Than half YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming ata bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer every time, and the prize is. Health. CLOVER LEAF DAIRY 159 W. Ist So. Was. 2177 {  ' any one, but to all Relief Society Members. Those who adImportant to Relief Society Members Sisters, THIS IS OUR MAGAZINE, it does not belong to vertise in Our Magazine are helping us publish it and thus they are aiding our Cause. We in turn should be loyal to them. We are careful in selecting our advertisers and can recommend them to our readers; THEIR goods are GOOD GOODS and their prices are right; why not fell them we appreciate their good-will toward our Cause, by giving them a chance to supply our needs. Forgive your enemies but support your friends. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine BLUE! I PIINIE () BRANDY, | Ncw Seale? Oy HELLED WALNUTS No Christmas Is Complete Without: Books tA q q t mas. Write NOW for a catalog or suggested listor, send us the mony you want to spend. Tell us how many books it must buy and we'll select for you. Deseret Book Company When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine x P. QO.