General Secretary Amy Brown Lyman The name of Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary of the Relief Society, has come to be a household word. For seventeen years of her nineteen years service she has acted as secretarytwo years as assistant secretary and fifteen years as General Secretary. In these capacities she has magnified her calling to the fullest extent. Her work has attracted attention all over the Church as well as the attention of many noted persons who have visited Relief Society headquarters. Much of the work that is thought of as new work in the Relief Society has been inaugurated during her term as General Secretary. She began in her own office by installing an up-to-date filing system so that at any moment she has been able to refer to material on any of the many matters that constantly come before the organization. She has also collected and compiled important data on every phase of Relief Society work and activity. In addition to this she elected as her own special interest social work. Her appointment by the governor on many committees that had to do with humanitarian problems here in the state as well as appointments to conventions and conferences out of the state have given evidence of the esteem in which she is held in her own particular line of work. Her recent election as president of the Utah State Conference of Social Workers is an indication 
 of the place she has made for herself among reputable social workers in this state. Only recently she has been elected to membership in the Pi Gamma Mu, Social Science Honorary Society of America. This is evidence of the esteem in which her work in social science is held outside of the state. The welfare work of the Relief Society has attracted the attention of educational institutions of our state as they recognize that it has been put on a scientific basis, and Mrs, Lyman. Has frequently been called to the University of Utah, the Brigham Young University and other educational institutions to make addresses on welfare work. On a goodly number of occasions she has been a delegate to the National Council of Women on behalf of the Relief Society. A few years ago she was elected recording secretary of that organization and during her term of office was requested by President Valeria Parker to go to Geneva to represent the interests 'of the Council at the League of Nations. The marriage of her only daughter prevented her doing so, but at least the compliment was tendered her. She is at the present time the auditor of that organization. Tennyson has Ulysses say that he is a part of all that he has met. In the very realist sense of the word Mrs. Lyman has been a part of all of the Relief Society work. She has given of her best and for this reason she has identified herself with the great progress that has attended the work of the organization. We might have concluded that her equipment for secretary with her natural endowment and training was sufficient, but she had the vision to know that a secretary of a welfare organization, if she is to bring to her position that acumen of knowledge that is most desirable, should also be a trained social worker. One of Mrs. Lyman's assistants once paid her the tribute of saying "if there is a better way than another to do a thing Mrs. Lyman will find that better way out." That is characteristic of everything she does. We are pleased to have Sister Lyman promoted and made Counselor to the President. The work of General Secretary is strenuous and seventeen years is a long time to fill a position where so many details are involved that must be attended to if the work is not to suffer. Yet her work as General Secretary has been so gratifying to those she has served that she must look back on it with a great degree of satisfaction, having won universal commendation and admiration for the way she has done her work. There is a story told of Michael Angelo, the great sculptor, that when he had finished his Moses the work so gripped him that he forgot that it was an image of stone, and striking it on the knee exclaimed, "speak." There is something in this story that suggests the perfection of Mrs. Lyman's work as General Secretary. It is not given to mortal beings to attain perfection; it is given to only a few to approach it. A host EDITORIAL 655 of Mrs. Lyman's admirers will feel that she at least approached perfection in the manner ln which she has done her work. She leaves the position to act as Counselor to President Louise Y. Robison with the gratitude, esteem and admiration of the many thousands she has served in wards and stakes, and particularly of the General Board to whom her voice has sounded like music as they listened to her minutes and heard such explanations as only one possessing her alert mind and keen intelligence could give. She assumes her new responsibility with the love and benediction of all who have known of the great service she has rendered.