A Sound Investment By Miss Bernice Selley, Utah Tuberculosis Association Little children, playing in dirty, crowded city streets, in the sweltering oppression of midsummer, touched the heart strings of good people who knew that not far away were grassy meadows, cool groves and sparkling brooks. Might not the cramped lives of these city urchins, wan and ragged, many of them, be expanded a bit by transplanting them, even for a brief period, to the open country? So the fresh air camp was born. The idea grew rapidly. Summer camps of all descriptions sprang up. Health associations, appreciating the value of summer outings, were quick to join in the movement and many established camps of their own. These are called health camps and their primary purpose is to husband and increase the health capital of children below par in vigor and vitality. There are in all communities certain children who are neither definitely sick nor vigorously well. They do not need hospital treatment, but neither are they competent to keep pace with other more sturdy children. Experience has shown that such handicapped children can be helped by conserving their limited energies and by teaching them how to order their lives in accordance with their handicaps. Open air schools, preventoria and summer health camps all aim to help this type of child. Efficient health camps must meet certain standards. The children must have careful medical guidance, rest, good food, hygienic practice, including the development of sound health habits and plenty fresh air and sunshine. If there are any defects that need correction, such as adenoids and tonsils, these must be corrected. The children themselves receive training in the ways of health and their parents also are given instruction. The Utah Christmas Seal Health Camp established last summer by the Utah Tuberculosis Association in Big Cottonwood canyon provided efficient care to thirty children for a period of six weeks. The average gain per child was six pounds. It is hoped the funds next year will permit the association to increase the number of children at the health camp to fifty or sixty. The Health Camp was supported by Christmas seal funds. It was an investment with dividends measured not in dollars but in strong men and charming women. Children who might otherwise be sacrificed were made happy and healthy. Christmas seal funds used on health camps represent a sound investment, and everyone can invest their bit when Christmas seals are bought and sold. Guide Lessons for February LESSON I Practical Religion and Testimony (First Week in February) Purity I. Material. A. Scriptural material: 1, i. 3. So Create in me a clean heart oh God: and renew a right spirit within me. Psalms 51:10. Blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see God. Matt. 5:8. Unto the pure all things are pure, but unto them that are defiled and unbelieving nothing is pure, but even their minds and conscience is defiled. Titus 1:15. And I looked and lo! A lamb stood on the Mount Sion and with him an hundred forty and four thousand having his fathers' name written in their foreheads. These are they which were not defiled. Rev. 14:1-4. For this is Zionthe pure in heart. D. And C. 97:21. Verily I say they shall not have part in the first resurrection. D. And C. 63:17-18. Be ye clean that bear vessels of the Lord. D. And C. 38:41-42. And assuredly as the Lord liveth, for the Lord God hath spoken it and it is a part of his clemal word that they who are filthy shall remain filthy still. II Nephi 9:15-16. On page 280 Compendium gems are recorded the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith, the remembrance of which saved a brilliant youth from having his life purity blighted by "taking a fling." B. Literary Material: 1. Mn PLN Virtue is indeed its own reward.Claudianus. Know then this truth (enough for men to know), Virtue alone is happiness below.Pope. Virtue is her own reward.Dryden. Well may your heart believe the truth I tell, '*Tis virtue makes the bliss, where'er we dwell.Collins. Virtue alone outbuilds the pyramids; Her monuments shall last, when Egypt's fall.  i oung. 678 Oo mM ND RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Virtue could see to do what virtue would. By her own radiant light, though sun and moon, Were in the flat sea sunkMilton. The sun, too, shines into cesspools and is not polluted. Diogenes Leartius. My good blade carves the casques of men; My touch lance thrusteth sure, My strength is as the strength of ten, Because my heart is pureTennyson. Miscellaneous: 1, a Say to thy soul: "No unclean thing shall enter here." Karl G. Maeser. In the kingdom of Consciousness, evil skulks into the corner of forgetfulness where good is made the guest of honor.George H. Brimhall. On my honor I will do my best (1) To do my duty to God and my country and to obey the scout law. (2) To help other people at all times. (3) To keep myself physically strong, mentally awake, and morally straightScout Oath.. "To associate with the vile is to assume their vileness. To touch a woman's hand in wantonness may be to poison her life and yoursVulgarity weakens the mind. It is vulgar to like poor music, to read weak books, to feed on emotional newspapers * * * to enjoy vulgar theatres, to find pleasure in cheap jokes * * * the forces which make for vulgarity tend also toward obscenity * * * a form of vulgarity is profanity, this is a sign of a coarse unrefined nature. He is the wise man who for all his life can keep. Mind and soul and body clean."David Starr Jordan in "The Strength of Bewmg Clean'a book that lifts to higher levels of purity. Your Afterself. Your first duty in life is toward your afterself. So live that the man you ought to be may in his time be possible, be actual. Far away in the years he is waiting his turn. His body, his brain, his soul are in your boyish hands. He cannot help himself. What will you leave him? Will it be a brain unspoiled by lust or dissipation; a mind trained to think and act; a nervous system true as a dial in its response to the truth about you? Will your boy, come as a man among men in his time? Or will you throw away his inheritance before he has had a chance to touch it? Will you turn over to him a brain distorted, a mind diseased, a will untrained to action, a 6.