Jennie Brimhall Knight was born in Spanish Fork, December 13, 1875, daughter of Dr. George H. Brimhall and Alsina E. Wilkins Brimhall. Near the spot where now stands the Spanish Fork High School she spent her early life. In the public schools of Spanish Fork she early manifested scholastic ability. While yet a young school girl she typified originality and tact in meeting situations. When her class had been asked to write an original story, she stood in line with class-mates who read in turn. Her unusual fluency of delivery and the fascination of her story gave her a high standing, even though, as the teacher observed, not a word had been written. When she was graduated from the eighth grade, she and one other pupil accepted scholarships of award to the University of Utah. Though at times popular sentiment and her own desires might have been otherwise, from childhood throughout her life she has been loyal to right and to authority in her home and in the Church. When quite young, the advice of the Church authorities was against waltzing. She asked her father if he was going to tell her to stop waltzing, (for she was popular and loved to dance). He said, "You don't need me to tell you to stop." After she pondered it well in her mind, she returned to her father saying, "T will not waltz in violation of Church counsel." Thus, in the face of public sentiment, she was brave. In 1895 she was graduated from the B. Y. U. On that occasion she manifested her loyalty to her father in the following incident: In her graduating class there were only six girls, all 
 of whom were close friends to whom graduation meant the greatest event up to that time. These girls had decided on similar dresses for the occasion. They were of white silk and of course had to be made, as no dresses were ready-made then. So the costumes were complete and hopes ran high for the anticipated event in the new silk dress (silk dresses were rare). Jennie's father said to her, "I wish you wouldn't wear that new dress. 1 believe a girl should receive her certificate in her school dress." So Jennie with her same sweet smile marched up in a well-worn old red school dress, while all the others were in white silk. Also she was for that occasion the historian of the class. She worked long and hard and to the delight of companions and satisfaction of herself, prepared a very clever history of her class. In this story she had used Book of Mormon language and style. At a late date, when her father listened to what she was to deliver, he said: "Do you think it quite right to tell a humorous story in that language? I'm afraid, clever though it is, you should not do it."" So, on the eve of this event, she hastily prepared anew the history of her class. During her school days she taught a Sunday School class. She worked in the M. I. A., serving on the stake board with Sister Mecham when Utah stake extended from Lehi to Goshen, her associates all being mature women. Immediately after graduation Jennie B. Taught school in San Juan. In that community she took part in all Church activities. Later she taught in the B. Y. U. Training School, and because of distinctive service was tendered a life certificate to teach in public schools of the State. In 1898 Jennie B. Knight was regularly called and sent on a mission to England, being one of the first two called for such a mission. She visited with the presidency of the European mission, all the conferences, each in conference assembled, in England, Scotland and Wales... So effective was her testimony that after twenty years an unbeliever who listened to her speak wrote, saying he could never forget her sincere, guileless expression and was led further to investigate and receive the blessings of membership. She filled an honorable mission, making many real friends. When Jennie B. Is once a friend, she is a friend always; and some of the members of the Church in her missionary days over there still cling to her as benefactor. On January 18, 1899, Jennie B. Was married to Jesse Wm. Knight, son of Amanda McEwan and Jesse Knight. She has two sons Richard and Philip. Shortly thereafter they removed to Canada, where the Taylor stake was organized. She became stake president of the M. I. Aa position she held five years, at the same time teaching in the Relief Society. Her husband was a bishop there, and her life was typical of wholesome hospitality. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT 647 On her return to Provo, Mrs. Knight was made President of Utah Stake M. I. A. This position she filled with honor for eight years. During that time Mutual Isle, the canyon home for girls, was built, and opened. For several years she served as | Relief Society Stake Board member. During the war Jennie B. Was chosen vicesoresident of the State Council of Defense, Woman's Division, and went as their representative to Washington. While working on the Utah Stake Relief Seer Board she  was called to act as first counselor to Clarissa Smith Williams of the General Board of Relief Society. The fine characteristics of her life continued with her in this high calling. She-is humble, unassuming, yet wise and fearless. She is straight-forward, honest, frank, true to principle and to associates. She is that kind of soul who can know the faults of her friends and love them still. She is ever loyal to the Priesthood. The will of the Authorities and of the officers and Board, was her will and she sustained it in heart and action. During her service as eo fselo to Prsident Williams, though she lived in Provo, she never was late for a meeting, nor absent except for sickness or from being on other Relief Soviety business. She attended conventions in stakes all over the Church, and was present at the dedication services of the Canadian temple. Her judgment is what might be termed safe and sane, but in no sense reactionary; for these reasons she has made an exceedingly good counselor. One needs but visit any stake or meet any members or officers in the stakes where she has visited to know how well her work has been received. As an executive, we recall the excellent manner in which she presided and conducted the April conference during President Williams' illness. In addition to Mrs. Knight's local service she has gone as a Relief Society representative to the sessions of the National Council of Women a number of times, twice as a delegate to the Council Biennial and once as a representative to a Board meeting. She was also in attendance at the Quinquennial held in the United States in 1925. While serving as vice-president of the Woman's Division of the State Council of Defense Mrs. Knight attended the convention of the National Council of Defense held in Washington, D. C. There she reported the work of the women of the state. At Governor Bamberger' s request she attended the Peace Conference held in the city of Philadelphia the year that William Howard Taft was president. Mrs. Knight has also been a delegate from the Relief Society to two of the national conferences of social workers of the United States. 
 In her own comfortable well managed home she reigns as a queena very kind and sympathetic queen. In her patriarchal blessing received as a child, she was told she should place a blanket on the bed of the widows and she should clothe the orphans. The blanket she spreads is always one of comfort because she gives of herself with the gift. Ineed, she has no superior in doing the kindest things in the kindest way. She has more than fulfilled the promise of "clothing the orphan." She has mothered the orphan in all that the term implies. More than one child has found temporary refuge and loving care in her home, to tide over a time of stress and to go out provided well for many future days. Her family testify that she has had wisdom to know the right and the courage to stand by it, thus being the peace-maker and the wise counselor to all members of her own and her husband's family.