The Seventeenth of March On the seventeenth of this month it will be exactly eightythree years since the Relief Society of the Church was organized in Nauvoo, Illinois: Various phases of interest in connection with this event have in different years appeared in The Magazine. May we present on this occasion another aspect?the opportunity for leadership for the women of the Society? Leadership is everywhere necessary, not only among men but among women as well. Causes must be originated and sustained. Groups of people must be organized if there is to be concerted action for any purpose. And this demands leaders. Perhaps there has never been greater need for the right kind of leadership than at present. But leadership involves natural 'endowment, training, and practice, if it is to be the most effective. The leader must be discovered, first, and afterwards given the necessary opportunity to develop. And these two functions our Society performs in an admirable manner. Consider the number and variety of organizations, general and local, in the Relief Society of the Church. There is nothing like these anywhere else in the world. In upwards of a thousand wards, in nearly one hundred stakes, and in the general organization you will find many thousand offices that have to be filled? executive places, secretarial positions, committees, teaching, supervision. These varied activities bring out the natural leaders in the Society. Always there is going on a selective process by 
 which women are tried out for places of leadership. And after the leader has been chosen, opportunities abound on every hand for her to develop in the difficult art of leadership among Her Sex. And then consider the variety of activities in this process of development of leaders. To be able to think and speak on one's feet is one of the necessities of leadership nowadays, and the growing standard of the time requires both straight thinking and correct, clear expression. Then there is the matter of having to decide questions that may come up. This makes for good judgment. Besides, the officers of the Society are required to handle funds, which calls for the cultivation of honesty, accuracy in accounts, and judicious management. Finally, those who preside over committee and public meetings are forced to take on the qualities of good taste, courtesy, alertness, decision, and so on. And, in general, there is more or less of a compelling necessity for the officers of the Society to study and learn, so as to discharge the various duties of their offices with the greatest efficiency. In other words, there is present in our organizations a strong incentive to the cultivation of all the qualities of leadership. For these opportunities we are indebted to the Prophet Joseph Smith, in the organization of the Relief Society. A Memorable Day for Women New Year's Day, 1925, suggested that the twentieth century is in full stride, and proved to be a memorable one for women. In the United States, Mrs. Florence S. Knapp, newly elected Secretary of State, in New York State, administered the oath of office to Governor Alfred E, Smith before a truly august bod Nor was the day lacking in features of interest, across the water; for on that date England's greatest actress, Miss Ellen Terry, the woman whose light shone beside Sir Henry Irving's, for so many years, became a Dame of the Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire. British papers insist that Miss Terry's award was the outstanding award of the day in Great Britain. The veteran actress is now 76 years of age. She stood for her photograph holding the famous handbag referred to in Barrie's "Alice Sit by the Fire." In receiving the honor she expressed herself as being especially pleased because she said, "It is a recognition of my sex." Yet while Miss Terry's award is the one that attracted most attention, two other women received recognition: Mrs. Millicent Garrett Fawcett, pioneer EDITORIAL 125 in the Woman's Suffrage movement, became a Dame of the Grand Cross of the Order of the British Empire; while Mrs. Louisa Aldrick Blake, the Dean of the London School of Medicine. For women, was made Dame Commander of the Order of the British empire. THE JUSTICE BELL (Women's New Liberty Bell) First rung in Independence square, Philadelphia Sept. 25, 1920, to proclaim the completion of citizenship in the United States of America by ratification of the 19th Amendment Enfranchising Woman.