[WomansExponent | Vol23 | 1894 | December | Issue: 11 | Title: UNBIDDEN THOUGHTS. | Author: Unknown]

UNBIDDEN THOUGHTS.

[A Chapter of I's and Me's.]
	I BELIEVE I have always been a wo-
man suffragist; but the strange past of it is,
I have never known it, but have remained
in a state of quiescent neutrality for—but I
will not mention how long. I might have
remained in this uninteresting condition for
another interminable lapse of time, had it
not been for a Circumstance, the result of
which has been, that those long hours of
sleeplessness, due to semi-invalidism, which
have hitherto been devoted to the concoc-
tion of impossible romances for the delec-
tation of a long-suffering public, have now
been turned into a new, and I trust, more
laudable channel. I have been led to re-
flect upon the condition of my sex, the

[Column 2]
causes of her troubles, and the best means
of alleviating them.
	But let us retrospect. Why have I so
long remained in ignorance of my true
sentiments, and what has transpired to
arouse me from my lethargy. These are
questions: and a question, says the author
of the above mentioned circumstance is a
proposition having two or more sides to be
considered. The above questions have two
sides, the sudorific and the active.
	In viewing the first, please bear it in
mind that I have never felt myself to be
downtrodden. In the family of which I
am a representative, the female members
have enjoyed as great, if not greater ad-
vantages of education than the males. I 
was never debarred from performing any
act which I considered proper, provided it
came within the limits of possibility. I
have had offices heaped upon me until I
have been sick of the very name of office,
I have engaged in various occupations, open
alike to men and women, and have been
treated well and paid liberally. In my
domestic relations I have enjoyed the ut-
most freedom; nor have I heard any com-
plaint from the other side of the house of
being “hen-pecked.” Above all, it has
been a part of my education, nay, almost
of my religion, from babyhood, to believe
implicitly in the justice, equity, and
liberality of the men of Utah, in their
views relating to my sex. I did not trouble
myself about suffrage, because I felt sure
when the time came that our fathers, hus-
bands, and brothers could exercise that
freedom which is theirs, (and ours) by
divine right, we should stand side by side
with them, not under protest, but as a mat-
ter of course.
	Imagine then, my surprise and conster-
nation when confronted by a flat contra-
diction of all my preconceived notions, in
the form of a learned discourse from a
favorite speaker and esteemed acquaintance,
as he ably set forth the ins and outs of
Constitutions and Constitution—making,
and devoted the last half-hour to a fierce
attack on the evils of woman’s suffrage.
	How wert thou fallen, then, my Utah
heroes! Great and mighty the collapse of
my airy castle; for if there be one tinctured
with the leaven of prejudice, may there
not be tens, nay hundreds, who incline
likewise. Farewell, my ideal Utonian!
like most creatures of the imagination,
doomed to fall to the level of mortality. 
Thou too art now tainted with the odor of
the earth—earthy, and as such must be
dealt with.
	As I listened in open-eyed, almost open-
mouthed astonishment to the revelations
of our learned friend, something stirred
within my heart and brain, something
hitherto dormant; and almost before I was
aware, and true to the reputation of my
sex, I leaped to a conclusion without wait-
ing to examine the reason. I was a wo-
man suffragist before I left the lecture-hall;
I am one still, and the more I reflect upon
it, the stronger grow my convictions.
	So much for cause and effect. Now for
the Circumstance itself.

[Column 3]
	In regard to the exposition of the social
condition of the Eastern States, I have
nothing to say. The gentleman has lived
among the people, and made a
study of the question, so ought
to know whereof he speaks. But his con-
clusions as to the cause of this deplorable
state of affairs, which may be summed up
in the grand finale:
	“Woman suffrage is the wedge which is
rending asunder, disrupting the very founda-
tion of the social fabric,” uttered with a
force and fervor indicative of personal con-
viction, I certainly believe to be erroneous.
	Who ever heard of a revolution which
did not cause a rending apart and disrup-
tion of time-honored customs and opinions?
But for this reason shall there be no more
revolts against cruelty and oppression?
And where in the annals of history can we
find another instance of a revolution world-
wide in its proportions and in its effects.
Without doubt the immediate result is
strife, envy, and contention; but who will
deny that the final outcome will be peace
and prosperity? Only he whose vision is
beclouded with the mists of prejudice and
tradition.
	The war has begun; the fiat gone forth,
and any effort of man to stem the progress
of woman’s emancipation will be equal to
the task of changing the course of a mighty
river. Our opposers have arrayed them-
selves on the losing side, a side that will
reflect no honor upon its adherents. Min-
insters may preach, lawyers may reason,
but the great march of enlightenment will
go on, regardless of their efforts. Women
may cry: “Fie! we have all the rights we
want or need.” Let them revel in their
small sphere. Their children and chil-
drens children will enjoy the fruits of 
emancipation just the same, and while they 
look back with pity or horror on the con-
dition of their grandmothers, they will rise
up and call blessed the memory of those
brave pioneers of equal rights, who dared in
the face of public opinion, to raise the
standard of liberty before a benighted
world.
	“But why,” queried a gentleman to 
whom I expressed these opinions, “why
are you so sure of these things? There are
two sides to a question, you know.”
	For reply, I asked  him to accompany me
back to the Garden of Eden. “There,” he
exclaimed, “like every other woman, you
are going to mix up church and state,
politics and religion.”
	“And what of that?” I retorted, “In
my mind they are inseparable. The only
pure form of government on the earth you
know to be founded upon the purest and
most divine religious principles.”
“He that hath an ear let him hear”
	The most skeptical anti-suffragist will
hardly deny that originally man and wo-
man were created equal; that through dis-
obedience to a divine mandate, they both
fell from their high estate: that a curse was
pronounced upon both, which could only
be removed by obedience to certain laws
given them for that purpose.


[Column 1]
	History reveals how signally man has
failed in keeping his part of the covenant,
except at long intervals when for a brief
season, the pure religion of Christ has held
sway upon the earth. It also shows how
that the stronger vessel has demanded of
the weaker, to the uttermost farthing, the
payment of the penalty passed upon her
for her transgression. “Thy desire shall
be to thy husband, and he shall rule over
thee.” For near six thousand years, the
sighs and prayers and heart-yearnings of
His daughters, for something better, have
ascended to the throne of a just and merci-
ful Parent. Doubt not but His ears have
heard, and His heart responded to their
cries. 
	This is an age of marvelous happenings.
It is an age of preparation for something 
better than the world has ever known. It
fore-shadows a time when the trammels of
sin are to be broken, and the results of dis-
obedience done away; when man and wo-
man, by fulfilling a certain law, can be
restored to their pristine glory and exal-
tation.
	Therefore I contend that the movement 
for Woman’s Suffrage presages her release
from the curse placed upon her in Eden;
that it is a sign of the times, as well as is
the restoration of the Gospel, and that to
fight against it, is to array ourselves in op-
position to the purposes of the Almighty.
	The cry is raised against woman enter-
ing the ranks of wage-earners, because she
consents to work at cheaper rates than men
can afford to do who have families depend-
ing upon them. This may be true, but can
any just mind condemn the poor worm from
rebelling, when driven to the last extremity,
and turning to account the very means
which have been used to hold her down, to
further the end of her emancipation. Hun-
dreds of women have been made earnest
equal suffragists for this reason alone, that
they have been expected to do the same
amount of work as a man in as creditable a
manner, and for half the remuneration.
Think not however, that this will be a last-
ing condition. Once installed on a sure
foundation, and woman will demand as high
a price for her labors as any man. The
question of preference will then be one of
capability and integrity, as it should be,
and not of dollars and cents.
	The old plea that the ballot for women
will admit so many immoral women to
power is indeed becoming monotonous.
Let the four times eighty thousand 
prostitute makers of New York City purify
themselves, body and soul and where
would be your eighty thousand prostitutes?
Immorality would die a natural death, and
brothel keepers sink in the ruins of bank-
ruptry.
	Show me the woman, born of virtuous
parentage, who would lead the life of a
prostitute from choice, and you will show
me an anomaly in nature. Where is the
most degraded among them who would not
gladly reform to become the honorable wife
of a reformed and honorable man?
	Ah, my friends, it is social vice and
degradation, not woman’s suffrage, which
has undermined the social structure. It
has befouled the stream and polluted the
fountain of life until it is an eyesore to the
vision and a stench in the nostrils of the
pure in heart. Let the rotten fabric be
rent asunder! let Babylon fall! let fire from
heaven devour its ruins! And from its
ashes, let there arise, like the far-famed
Phoenix of old, a structure “pure as the

[Column 2]
sun, fair as the moon, and terrible as an
army with banners,” to the evil doer of
the future.
	And, if need be, let Woman’s Suffrage
be the wedge which hastens this process of
purification; and let the banner of woman
be foremost in the ranks of those who are
fighting for the annihilation of bigotry and
prejudice and the ushering in of the pure
light of the millenium.
	CACTUS.
	(Read before the St. George Woman’s
Suffrage Association, Nov. 5th, 1894.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
