SWIFT CURRENT FALLS AND GOULD GLACIER NATIONAL PARK Photo by Heilman
MOUNTAIN, Mary B. Hamilton
By Hazel H. Greenwood
As we become intimately acquainted with the lives of the women of the Latter-day Saints we discover a great number of most interesting characters known and loved for their integrity, diligence, industry, faithfulness and sincerity. They have performed their part well and the story and history of our church would be incomplete without reference to their lives and accomplishments. Among this group may well be mentioned Mary B. Hamilton, born Jan. 6, 1865, in Mill Creek, where she has lived during her entire life time and where she has been and still is a leading member of the community. The Hamilton home has been a place where from my childhood I have spent many happy days. I learned to love and admire Aunt Belle for her devotion and attention to those who came within her influence. Especially did she make the principles and doctrines of the church a paramount subject in her instructions all of which have been made manifest in the lives of the children as they have grown to manhood and womanhood. Prayer, loyalty to the church and respect for the priesthood were never overlooked. Her parents, Martin White and Margaret Hill, were of German and Scotch descent and came to Utah in 1849. She commenced her education in the common schools and later took a Normal Course in the Brigham Young University graduating in 1885, and soon after began teaching. She taught for four years with marked success and was known as an entertainer and a clever reader. She married James C. Hamilton, who later became Bishop of Mill Creek Ward, where he presided for twenty-five years. Sister Hamilton was mother to nineteen children, nine of her own eight of whom are living and ten belonging to the first wife of her husband, who died leaving these children, the eldest a boy of fifteen and a baby three weeks old. In influencing these children she was successful in impressing them with the importance of individual responsibility in the duties of the home. And the community evidenced leadership and executive ability. Public problems affecting the home had her interest and support. Education and experience gave her a sense and appreciation of proper educational training and as much as possible was enjoyed by this family. The church activity of this group has been remarkable, six of her own sons as shown in the accompanying photograph have filled missions for the church and are active members. Among the other family of children four sons and one daughter have filled missions, three having served twice. Two sons have served as Bishops. The girls have all been active as Ward and Stake Presidents of Mutual Improvement, teachers of Sunday School, and have held many positions of trust. All of the marriages in this family have Her activities in the home
MARY B. HAMILTON
been performed in the temple. Sister Hamilton herself has had an active church experience, serving as Counselor in M. I. A., Counselor in Relief Society for a number of years, later serving as president of that organization for sixteen years. At the organization she was chosen as a member of the Stake Board of M. I. A. Under Zina B. Cannon as President. Subsequently she be-
453
came a member of the Board of the Cottonwood Stake Relief Society giving splendid service for five years to a clinic held in Murray under that organization. At present she is a teacher in Sunday School, Mutual and Relief Society. Besides her church activities Sister Hamilton has for years been an active leader in civil affairs, taking an active and leading part in many matters pertaining to the welfare of the community. She was elected president of the Farm Bureau of Salt Lake County and was president and later Secretary of the Hill Ditch Corporation and active in numerous other matters in which the welfare of the community was concerned.
MARY B. HAMILTON AND HER SIX SONS
She has been a leader in politics having attended all of the County and State Conventions. In the long years she has served few if any women in the church have been more diligent and faithful in visiting the homes of the sick and responding to the call of the needy, thereby fulfilling the Master's measure of true service.

