Rural Adjustments in Czechoslovakia By Thomas L. Martin, Agronomist, Brigham Young University OST Americans know surM prisingly little about the interesting new republic in the central and eastern part of Europe called Czechoslovakia. If you read the papers carefully a few years ago, you may recall that out of the ruins of the Austrian Empire there were a few new nations created. Bohemia, the inhabitants of whom are known as Czechs, the little provinces of Silesia, Moravia, and Slovakia together with a little of Russia, Poland, and Hungary constituted the material out of which the Czechoslovakian nation was made. For many centuries in this geographic area a number of different races have existed. The Czechs and Slovaks have predominated and have always been characterized by their independent democratic spirit. At various times they have worked for religious and civil liberty, but unfortunately stronger powers have held them under subjection. Particularly were they oppressed by the Austrians. Fortunately for them, however, the end of the Great War brought to a finish the subjugation by enemy powers which had been in existence for many centuries. This countrv consists of an area of 55,000 square miles (two-thirds the size of Utah) and a population of 18,900,000 people. About 12,000,000 are ''Czechoslovaks; 3,000,000 Germans and the rest are Russians, Hungarians, etc. After the war the beginning period of the new republic was very vigorous, although about a million and a half of the inhabitants left the country, first because of the instability of the country, and second, because there was nothing for them to do. Thousands emigrated to the United States. However restrictions on immigration to the United States, and the passing of agricultural laws making more favorable conditions for farmers there had. The effect of checking emigration. At present the people appear to be doing better and many of the Czechoslovakians are returnihg to the homeland. HE founders of this new republic had vision. One of their first activities was a Land Reform movement. Large estates had been owned by their hated conquerors as well as some few rich people of their own blood. Before the war nearly seventy per cent of the agricultural land was in possession of these wealthy landlords and the rest, consisting of five and one-half million acres, was in the hands of the citizens themselves. The first law passed by the new republic was known as the land reform law. This took the land from the owners after they were paid a pre-war price, equivalent to about one-sixth of the value at the time the law was passed. The land was then apportioned out to the farmers and sold to them on long time contracts. The method of selecting the farmers for the land was interesting. A committee consisting of scientific experts, economists, successful farmers, and some government officials was formed. The applications sent in by prospective buyers were studied by this committee and judgment passed on the basis of the applicant's past experience, his service 442 in the army, kind and number in family, etc. The method used for selecting proved a wise one, and the farmers are practically all making good. There have been 500,000 farmers placed on new land in the last eleven years. Not only have these farmers been placed on land but they have been provided with expert help. A reform in the school system has also been made. Children go to the elementary school for six to ten years. At any age varying between ten to eighteen they may go to the gymnasium school, something like our vocational schools, which fits them with the general training for life. This is followed by high school training during the years from eighteen to twenty-two, during which time they secure training in the technical branches. A number of agricultural high schools have been erected. These agricultural institutions are equivalent to our own agricultural colleges. At present there are over one thousand students in Czechoslovakia receiving a four year college course leading to a college degree, which fits them for practical work in agriculture. Every student must spend three days a week for two years in practice farming. Here they are taught the idea of putting everything they learn into practice. Dairying, poultry raising, crop raising, etc. Are taught. From these colleges the students go out to the farms to put their education into practice. In addition to this training the farmers get expert help. There are laboratories in which the best kind of farm equipment is determined. There are experiment farms in which plant breeding is done. The best pit silos for the farmer and the best material for silage purposes are studied. The expert in charge makes it very plain RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to the visitor that the whole purpose is to demonstrate the practical. There are three large experiment farms in Czechoslovakia as well as numerous small demonstration farms. At these large experiment farms, excursions are conducted every Sunday for the benefit of the farmers. There the expert explains results obtained. At Prague, the capitol city of Czecholsovakia, there are breeds of-dairy cattle, not the choicest breeds as one would expect, but the breeds native to Moravia and other hilly countries. Experiments are carried on to indicate what can be done with the native stock. Wild horses are kept on display and used for various purposes to show the farmers what may be done with the wild horse, of which there are many | in the country. Redclover, sunflower, corn and beet tops are the subjects of extensive experimentation and their value when siloed in pit silos determined. Corn and barley are used for stock feed experiments.. While I was there 100 Chester White pigs were being tested and the kind and amount of feed used and gains carefully recorded. All modern machinery together with old hand labor tools are compared. Modern machinery is slowly making headway, but while money is scarce and labor cheap this progress will be slow. There is a research building in progress, built upon modern lines and equipped with modern apparatus for making technical studies of the agricultural problems of the nation. Soil surveys are being made of all the areas of the state. Determinations of the physical conditions of the soil, the fertility needs and crop adaptability, are being studied intensely. Bacteria as a factor in soil fertility is receiving considerable attention RURAL ADJUSTMENTS. The experiments performed with the soil are recorded in the various areas and advice given for farming the particular areas. PeRE is an interesting Bureau of Agricultural Statistics and Organization. For the last ten years a record has heen kept of the farmers' income and outgoings. A fine system of bookkeeping on the farms is being inaugurated. About 1000 typical farmers in various parts of the nation have been selected for study in this interesting economic investigation. The number of animals, acres of land, acres of crop, labor, animals, crop yields, market prices, net and gross income, are taken into account. Progress reports are sent in every week. These reports are compiled and a summary returned to the farmer together with a comparison of the different areas in the nation, and a comparison with previous years, together with suggestions for improvement. This system of reports has had its effect upon the standards of living of the farmer, and it has been found that there is a steady improvement in average conditions. By this weekly check and weekly advice, monthly and yearly summary, the government has a wonderful check on her agriculture. She shows a paternal interest in her agricultural people. One and one-half million crowns, about $300,000, have been appropriated for this work yearly. Each farmer pays a small fee according to the amount of land he owns. A self governing public corporation known as the National Chamber of Agriculture has been organized for the protection of agriculture in the republic. Each county has its agricultural association for the protection of local interests. IN CZECHOSLOVAKIA 443 Expenses are covered by contribution as well as by 5 to 10% of land tax, and a subsidy from the government. Much agricultural seed is raised. For the protection of the growers as well as purchasers a seed control law was passed by the National Assembly on March 17, 1921. This law provides for official inspection, analysis, certification, and registration of original varieties developed by growers, and of seeds grown by them. The Ministry of Agriculture, charged with enforcement of law, appoints certifying commissions for various districts. Sugar beet seed, seed wheat and other grains are grown and certified and shipped all over the world. There is also an organization among the farmers and farm laborers. This is designed to promote agricultural production, and encourages bookkeeping, and it also supervises, distributes, and arranges for agricultural fairs. Animals form an important item in most of the Czechoslovakia farm enterprises. Manures are very carefully saved. Pits to conserve both the urine and solid excretion are very common and manure spreaders are growing in importance. On the better farms manure is applied on land every third year. They have not emphasized green manures for fertilizer purposes because rainfall is not too plentiful and fertilizers are relatively cheap. A definite system of rotation is carried on. Alfalfa is grown for two or three years, then sugar beets are planted, followed by barley, then wheat, sugar beets, and rye planted as a nurse crop for the alfalfa. When beets are not grown, potatoes and forage crops are grown in their stead. Corn is raised on a limited 444 area in the nation, particularly in its southern part. Agriculture has made great forward steps in Czechoslovakia due to her system of rotation and fertility. Conditions were bad in 1918. Soil was exhausted due to shortage of artificial manures, particularly nitrates and phosphorus. Supplies of barnyard manure were reduced due to the Austrian government taking the cattle during the war. The biological deficiency of exhausted soil and underfed cattle resulted in a gradual reduction in agricultural produce, yet her crops averaged well with the world. In 1924 the combined yield of wheat, rye, barley and oats in Czechoslovakia averaged 1392 pounds per acre as against 776 pounds in the United States. Their yield surpassed those of practically all of the rest of Europe. Wheat averaged 26 bushels to the acre while the United States averaged but 12. This rate of increase has been held steadily during the last ten years. Agricultural progress in Czechoslovakia has been due to hard work. By working early in the morning until late in the evening the agricultural classes have brought about improvement such that it has, with the art of the industrial worker created the "only fine island in the disturbed sea of Europe." One authority says that it is due only to the sound conservative sense of the agricultural class that in its first post war years of industrial disorganization and unemployment the social and economic balance of the republic was not disturbed. The farmers quickly adjusted themselves to pre-war status as soon as they regained their cattle and thus ensured the necessary supply of manure. The state helped the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE farmer to buy his commercial fertilizer at wholesale prices. This nation exports to foreign countries, barley, hops, sugar, alcohol, lumber. She imports flour from America, Hungaria, Roumania, and Poland. Corn and lard are imported. She is self supporting in cattle. There is a little irrigation carried on but it is very limited. Irrigation is needed in many sections but the price involved in creating such projects is prohibitive at the present time. JUDGING from my own experience and _ observations, ithe Czechoslovakians are a very fine type of people. They are industrious, happy, courteous, honest, hardworking, liberty loving and appreciative. The United States stands as her ideal of a nation. She loves America and our people. President Woodrow Wilson is idolized. He is considered their great liberator, because of his efforts to give the Czechs and the Slavs their freedom. The largest railroad depot in the capitol city is named after Woodrow Wilson. It contains the engraving "The world must be made safe for democracy." Even today fresh wreathes are found at the foot of the monument. There is a Wilson Street, American Street, and a Hoover Street. The national colors are red, white and blue. Her constitution is patterned after the American constitution. The leaders of the republic knew they had a nation to build. Commercial industries are vital for this nation, but agriculture is more vital. Her leaders knew that to build a nation the rural life must not be neglected. Professor Dr. Ve Brdlik commenting on this says: "The Czech peoples are descendants of humble RURAL ADJUSTMENTS peasants. They differ from other western nationalities in that her civilization has not come from the bourgeoise of the cities, but out of the peasant classes. This peasant class has always been responsible for the resuscitation and rejuvenation of the oppressed Czech people. Whatever course Czech history may take in the future the Bohemian rural peoples will always provide farm ground for the Czech nation to rest on." "The natural laws of the land will always prove a firm link. IN CZECHOSLOVAKIA 445 From the relation between the land and his family the peasant has derived his conception of the home land and freedom of his nation. He is convinced that he has an invincible power to overcome all difficulties even if the reverse of history were to be unfavorable to him, if his nation will not turn away 'from native fields in order to engage in industry. For having once lost contact with the land the whole nation would go to ruin. Such is the intrinsic value of Czechoslovakian agriculture."
