Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in October ) THE Book OF MORMON?INTRODUCTORY PREFATORY NOTES There are nine lessons in this course. They are chiefly the teachings of the Book of Mormon. The purpose of the course is not primarily to learn the doctrines of that volume, although these should be known, but rather to find out what bearing they have on the divine origin of the Nephite Record and the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. With this in mind, some attention has been given to the religious ideas that were in the air at the time he was translating the book. Instead of giving a large number of references for the class to look up, it has been deemed better to make quotations in the body of the lessons. This will no doubt lessen the time for preparation and conduce to better classes. The only disadvantage is that it takes up space in the Magazine that heretofore has been given to other uses. These lessons are by no means exhaustive. There are many points that are not even touched upon here. Space and time are too limited to cover everything doctrinal in the Record. The class should, therefore, make use of the work they were asked to do during the previous two years in setting down, under separate headings, the teachings of the Book of Mormon. And this record should be made use of here. It will supplement what is said in these lessons. A greater number of questions are given. This year than the last two years. The reason is that we have hoped to cover some points in the questions that there was not space for in the body of the lesson. It is our belief that these will help to broaden the scope of the course. We have aimed, also, in these questions to make the work apply more closely to the present. Select Readings: Read the Book of Ether, chapters 2 to 6 and chapters 11, 12, 13. Make a note of the doctrines taught. INTRODUCTORY Is there another life, and, if there is, how are we to know it for certain? No question is older than that. When the first man went away without his body and did not come back, but left it on the ground or in the rude bed, cold and dank, those who were left behind and who had loved him and were sad because he was gone must have wondered and asked one another whether they would ever see him again, and if so, where, and when, and under what circumstances. And no question is more insistently asked today. Every one who thinks at all asks it, whether he lives in the frozen north, or at the equator under the broiling sun, or in the temperate zones where life can be lived more comfortably. They ask it as passionately who live in the luxury of the palace, where there is plenty and ease, as do those who occupy the hovel, amid want and suffering. And 470 all down the ages since that first one died men of every clime and Class have turned their eyes toward the "bourne whence no one returns" to lake up again his way of lite. And what answers have these received to their question about death and the great Beyond? Rairst of all, they have racked their brains to find an answer to this question in their own heads?have tried, that is, to reason their way to an answer that is satisfactory. "all men everywhere," they have said to themselves, "believe in immortality, no matter where they live, or when, or how, and therefore there must be another life after this." And tor hundreds of years this "argument," as it was called, was thought one of the "proofs" of immortality. But now we know better. Now we realize that it is not true, because it is not based on a fact. All men do not believe in another life. The millions of East Indians do not?at least, not in our sense. When a Christian says he believes in the next world, he is thinking that there he will exist as an individual consciousness, a being capable of thinking and feeling and willing. But when a Buddhist says he believes in another life, he is not thinking of that at all, but of something very different. He is thinking of the time when his individuality will be absorbed by the all-consciousness, the great Nervana. Besides, an American professor discovered through a questionnaire that a great many people in this nation?university students as well as some great scholars?do not believe in individual immortality. Many of them, in fact, do not even desire individual immortality, as he also found. To them the other world is a matter of utter indifference. That is what they would have us believe, at any rate. And most RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE likely if an inquiry were set on foot, there would be found people in every other country of the same mind. Hence, an argument based on the notion that there must be another life after this because everybody believes in one, breaks down when it is examined closely. And then, too, people have argued that there must be another life for the reason that we do not get justice in this world. The wicked flourish, we are told, while the righteous are crushed and unhappy. What about that "argument"? Well, it just isn't true?that is all. The wicked do not prosper here in the true sense of the word, nor are the righteous miserable. No doubt some wicked men become rich through their greed and chicanery; and no doubt some very good people are poor. But money is not the real standard of measuring values, although it often appears to be. There is the higher value of individual worth. Every hour and every minute we are paid for what we do in this world. We do not have to wait for another world in which to obtain our reward and our punishment for the deeds done in the body. "The ledger of the Almighty," as Professor Huxley used to say, "is strictly kept, and every one of us has the balance of his operations paid over to him at the end of every minute of his existence. The gravitation of sin to sorrow is as certain as that of the earth to the sun?and more so." So the argument that there is another life because in this world people do not get their just deserts, falls to the ground for want of support. And then, finally?not to exhaust the list of "arguments drawn from reason"?there is the one called "moral perfection." It runs something like this: Man is a moral being. Apparently he is capable of LESSON DEPARTMENT progressing morally and spiritually almost without limit. But no sooner does he enter upon the road to perfection than he dies with this promise unfulfilled. Hence there must be a sphere beyond the grave where this capacity for moral perfection is satisfied. For God would not put something into your hand only to snatch it away when you were about to use it. Of the three reasons for believing in the immortality of the soul, this is the only one that appeals to the modern mind as having any basis in truth, and the more we consider it the more it appeals. But it does not have the weight that is necessary to convince?else every one would be converted to the Christian belief in immortality. So mankind has had to look somewhere else than to a human deduction for evidence that there is a life after this. That evidence is found in the resurrection of our Savior, as given in the New Testament. Jesus, to all appearance, was a man. He grew up in the village of Nazareth a carpenter. He lived with other men. He ate their food, slept in their beds, and dressed as they did. He became a great teacher, and had a large following. Then he was murdered by jealous contemporaries. His body was placed in a sepulchre, after the manner of his time and country. And a Roman guard was set to watch the tomb, because he had told his disciples that he would rise from the dead on the third day. And those disciples declared that he did rise from the dead, that he appeared to them on various occasions, and that they conversed and ate with him. Nor was that all. An institution was founded on this fact of his resurrection, which has continued for more than nineteen centuries. 471 Reduced to its ultimate, the fact of Christ's resurrection rests on the testimony of Paul, the apostle, who did not see Jesus till after the ascension. In his letter to the Corinthians he says: "I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received?how that Christ died for our sins; that he was buried; that he rose again the third day; that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve; that he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain unto this day, but some are fallen asleep; that afterwards he was seen of James. Then of all the apostles; and that, last of all, he was seen of me, as of one born out of due time." Many attempts have been made. Especially in our own era, to break down this testimony of Paul's. Holsten, for instance, tried to show that Paul's vision was an hallucination; Pfleiderer, that he made it up, for his theory of '"counter-tendencies" amounts to that; and Renan, that it was the result of a physical disability in the apostle. And a Protestant bishop in England attributes the vision to an epileptic fit. All these critics resort to these hypotheses, however, only because of an obsession against the miraculous element in religion. But so far no effort has been successful in breaking down the force of Paul's testimony to the resurrection of Christ. And so, with Bauer, who also was unfriendly to the miraculous, we are compelled to admit that the conversion of Saul of Tarsus "'resists all historical, logical, and psychological analysis." This is because it is bed-rocked in an experience, not in a course of reasoning. This testimony of Paul's, of course, is strongly bulwarked by the fact of Christianity itself. For no institution could influence for good the lives of countless millions of men 472 and women, let alone have altered the entire course of history and shaped the destiny of strong men and nations as the religion of Jesus has done, unless there were at the heart of it somewhere a deep, elemental truth. And, say what you will, the core of the Christian religion as established by Jesus and his apostles, is the resurrection of Christ. Thus the faith of millions of intelligent people throughout the world and for many centuries, rests upon the validity of a miracle. "Sir," said old Boswell to Johnson, "the evidences of a future life are sufficient." And the great literary dictator replied in his gruff manner, "Sir, I could wish for more." If the evidences of a future life were sufficient, as Boswell thought, how is it then that the whole world has not been converted? Boswell would have had a hard time explaining that. But Johnson was right. There is a need for more evidence that there is a future life. But where are we to look for such evidence? Not to human reasoning. That source, it seems, has long been exhausted. Not to the New Testament, for every nook and cranny of that volume has been critically inspected. Indeed, the more that source is looked into, the more doubt is thrown upon the possibility of the resurrection from the dead.. The only bit of evidence that remains from that source, as already stated, is the testimony of Paul. Our only hope, therefore, for any new evidence of the reality of a life after this lies in the expectation that God may grant us further light on that greatest of all questions through new revelation. That light has been given man. Joseph Smith, the prophet of the nineteenth century, claimed to have seen a resurrected man, not once RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE only, but many times. This personage, he further declares, conversed with him for hours at a time. Moreover, he instructed him in his work as prophet and seer in this dispensation. Finally, this heavenly being placed in his hands a book of gold plates on which was written, in an ancient language, the history of an extinct race, the ancestors of the American Indians. Now, the evidence that Joseph Smith was telling the truth runs along two lines. First, there is the book itself. Who wrote it, if Joseph Smith did not? No competent critic nowadays, with all the facts before him, believes that either Solomon Spaulding or Sidney Rigdon had anything to do with writing it. Besides, it is highly improbable, to say the least, that a boy without education or experience in such things, could have written such a book. And then, finally, there could have been no motive to write a book that would give him neither fame nor money. So we must accept the Prophet's own explanation of how the Book of Mormon originated as the only really plausible one. Now, there are some things in the Book of Mormon which corroborate Joseph Smith's story. It is full of interesting characters and ideas that its author could not possibly have got from the people he knew or the conditions in Palmyra at the time. These personalities and doctrines, when we look into the matter closely, tend to show the truth of Joseph Smith's explanation of how we got the Nephite record. Secondly, there is the testimony of the witnesses?two sets. One set testify that they saw and handled the plates from which the book was translated; the other, that they both saw the plates and the angel and LESSON DEPARTMENT heard the voice of God on the occasion. The divine origin of the Book of Mormon being thus established by its doctrines and by the testimony of witnesses, we may feel safe in saying that Joseph Smith actually saw and talked with a resurrected being?the angel Moroni. Also we may feel safe in using the contents of the work to clarify our ideas on the great question of the immortality of the soul?the world of spirits between death and the resurrection, the resurrection itself, and the conditions under which immortal beings may expect to live in the next world. Thus the Book of Mormon, with 473 associated incidents, reflects new light on the question, Is there another life? Questions 1. Briefly state the point that it is expected you are to keep in mind throughout this course. 2. Which of the three reasons for a belief in immortality still has weight? Why does it? 3. Give the apostle Paul's testimony to the resurrection of Christ. Why is it so invulnerable? 4. Can one person know anything from another's experience? What, then, is the value of others' testimony to us? Work and Business (Second Week in October) Watchword: be to this house."?Luke 10:5. "And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace Text: "Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven: but whosoever shall do and teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven.'"?Matthew 5:19. HE Ten Commandments, given through Moses to the children of Israel, are commandments to the people of all times. While prophets were preaching to the people on the Eastern continent, other prophets were preaching to the Nephites and Lamanites on this continent, and Christ appeared to them also, and taught them. We find in the Book of Mormon, III Nephi, 12:20: "Therefore come unto me and be ye saved; for verily I say unto you, that except ye shall keep my commandments, which I have commanded you at this time, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven." Christ established His Church on both continents. It was lost sight of and then again restored and established again on the earth through the latter-day prophet Joseph Smith, Through him commandments were given to his followers that are quite as binding as those enunciated anciently. He taught his people in no uncertain language their obligations concerning law observance. "We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers and magistrates, in obeying, honoring and sustaining the law.' Articles of Faith. No. XII. At the present time special emphasis is being placed on the; Word of Wisdom. Every Relief Society member should do her part to further this campaign. Quote the part 474 of the Word of Wisdom that refers to tobacco. What can we do to teach most effectively this part of the Word of Wisdom to our children? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE What can we do to create public ' sentiment against tobacco? What can we do to sustain the law that forbids the sale of tobacco to minors? Literature (Third Week in October) THE SHORT Story IN DENMARK The short story in Denmark, as in the other Scandinavian countries ?Iceland, Norway, and Sweden? has a much briefer history than in the countries studied in last year's lessons. To sketch this history very briefly, there were first the Icelandic sagas, songs of the gods and of the national heroes, many of which were told to us as children. These sagas found their way into all the Scandinavian nations. In Denmark there were always a number of poets, but during that country's alliance with Norway, it produced one great prose writer, Ludvig Holberg (1684 to 1754). Holberg was a writer of comedies, histories, and philosophy. After him prose languished and revived again in the early part of the nineteenth century, Moller and Blicher being the two greatest writers. It remained for Hans Christian Andersen ''(1805-1875) to bring Danish prose to its greatest heights and to give to the world another i:..mortal writer of short stories. In many ways Andersen belonged to the Romantic writers of Europe, men who strove for romantic effects, who tried to bring Nature into their writings, to oppose classicism, and to glorify the past at the expense of the present. He, however, differed from many of the Romanticists in that he believed in progress. Both his poetry and prose show glimpses of the changes that science might some day make. He often dreamed of a time when men would travel from the old world to the new in airships. A poor shoemaker's son who never grew up was Hans Christian Andersen. He believed implicitly that God guided all his work?and if a story was good or bad, it was the fault of a higher power. It was his good fortune to gain fame as a novelist and as a travel writer, but it is for his fairy tales that his name will endure. After the Romanticists came the Naturalists, writers who ruled Europe during the latter part of the nineteenth century, some years before they gained a following in America. Many writers developed in this era and the twentieth century has seen a reaction against too much realism. Some of the outstanding short story writers in Denmark during the past forty or fifty years are: Jens Peter Jacobsen, Henrik Pontoppidan, Herman Bang, Karl 'Gjellerup, Karl Larsen, and Johannes V. Jensen, the latter being a central figure among contemporary Danish writers. Only two of the Danish writers have been elected for this lesson, Hans Christian Andersen, whose name is known to all America, and Meyer Aron Goldschmidt. Goldschmidt was a Danish-Jew who was an editor of a satirical comic paper. In addition he wrote novels and short stories, His "'Henrik and Rosalie" LESSON DEPARTMENT is considered one of the finest love stories of any language. He is a stylist, and in this story his style is smooth and simple, save to those who know how hard it is to achieve simplicity. It is in harmony with his characters, simple, honest people, struggling for "life's poetry" and gaining it through unromantic ways. He also has a firm grip on his characters, perhaps because of his detached view of both the Danish and the Jewish people. "Henrik and Rosalie' "Henrik and Rosalie" is a beautiful love story. It has for its underlying theme the thought expressed in the first few lines, that fate plays queer tricks and that even small things of seeming unimportance may change a man's destiny. The story is presented in the third person? the author speaking impersonally. It varies from one of the requirements of a good short story in that the point of view is suddenly changed near the end of the story. For a moment, when Rosalie is again brought into the story, the reader is at a loss, and he does not quite find himself before Henrik is re-introduced. And the story loses, rather than gains, by this transition. The most important information given by the episode of Rosalie at the country estate is that she is still looking for her poetic romance. This trait of hers should be emphasized earlier in the story and the tale would gain in unity. Save for the halt at the very first, when the writer expounds his philosophy, the story plunges early into the action and moves smoothly and fast to the close. The action, however, is delayed once by the introduction of the Rosalie episode. The close is drawn out, but it seems a necessary part of the atmosphere of 475 the story and it helps to further reveal the characters of Henrik and Rosalie. The story is a realistic one?it might have happened to a great many people that we know or have heard about?and there is not one single incident in it that does not ring true. The conflict is not, as in the Andersen story, one of parental opposition, for Rosalie has no parents. It is that conflict caused by a young romantic girl who decides that her love affair is too prosaic and that she must end it and either wait for her lover to develop into a more poetic person or else seek for romance elsewhere. True to adolescent traits, the inciting action is a visit to the theatre, where romance is shown, unhampered with any of the dull colors that move through Rosalie's life. And the hero, Henrik, like most men, fails to understand the girl's need and allows love to pass out of his life. The rest of the story is an account of how they are brought together, Rosalie satisfied and Henrik more understanding. Fate, in this case, takes the form of a stupid farmer who has a sick pig and mistakes the young physician for a veterinary. Although the love story is uppermost, the tale affords excellent character study, particularly in Henrik. Henrik is young and almost as impressionable as Rosalie. Because their love is so idealistic, he decides to become a student of divinity, and when she leaves him, he changes to his former preference?medicine. He has no consuming ambition, no great moral strength or talent, nor even decision enough to bring Rosalie back. Indeed he is not master enough of the situation to have his way with the simple peasant. But he is a likeable young person, ambitious in a small way, eager to make 476 his way honorably in the world, and we are glad that happiness comes to him, even though he gets it more through a trick of fate or luck than through his own efforts. The story also has its touches of local color that give it enduring qualities: the provincial town, the farmer and his sick pig, Henrik and his physician's stool, the heath in a storm. There is also a little gentle satire in the end. The romantic girl chooses to believe that it was her spirit that led her lover through the storm, while in fact an unromantic sick pig was the cause of his finding his way back to her. Scandinavian stories are often filled with the mystic or superstitious elements, and Rosalie's faith borders on this characteristic. "The Shepherdess and the Sheep" One can understand the story of "The Shepherdess and the Sheep" well enough without knowing much of the author, but in order to fully appreciate the graceful little fairy tale a person should know something of Andersen. Hans Christian Andersen began his autobiography with "My life is a lovely fairy tale, happy and full of incidents." His statement is true, for he seemed actually to live in the wondrous regions that he created. The prosaic facts of life had little meaning for him. Every incident in his career he regarded as a miracle. Those people who were good to him and praised his writings, he could never cease exalting. Those who criticized him and snubbed him, he called bad, and he had no ability to discriminate. When he visited a king it was as if a boy from one of his fairy tales were going into the royal court. Kings never lost their glamor for him. To his dying day Andersen's innocence RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and unworldliness were inconceivable save to those who knew him intimately and realized that intellectually he would never mature. All his life he wore his heart on his sleeve and called the world to see how sensitive and tender it was. He was as harmlessly vain as a small child. When he could be the center of attraction, he was supremely happy, but put him into the background and he planned ways of making people turn to look at him. "The Ugly Duckling" is his own story. Yet, because of these very qualities Andersen was able to write his fairy tales that are so beautiful and so full of truth. In them he shows us how a child views the world. He gives his animals and inanimate objects words that seem essential to their characteristics. Even his darning needle speaks as a darning needle should. Throughout his stories there runs a beautifully conceived moral, often the moral as a child would see it, and along with the moral goes a bit of delicate satire. The satire in his "The Emperor's New Clothes'? which every one should read once a year?is world wide in its application. Andersen was as original in his style as he was in his themes. When a good story teller narrates an incident to children, he is quite apt to crow for the rooster and baa for the sheep. And Hans Christian Andersen does that very thing in print. His stories are told rather than written. He was born at Odense on the island of Funen, April 2, 1805, with a poor shoemaker for a father and a woman of no great intellect for a mother. At the age of fourteen his parents started him off, a tall, awkward, ugly boy, to conquer the world by way of Copenhagen. At that time LESSON DEPARTMENT Hans had no idea of his limitations. He tried to be an actor, a singer, a dancer, and failed ignobly at all. It was not until Jonas Collins, a director of the Royal Theatre, persuaded King Frederic, VI, to pay for the boy's education at the University that Hans began to find himself. It is said of Hans Christian Andersen that "he was great in the little things and little in the great things" and that he "had a heart of gold, a tongue of silver, and the spine of a mollusk." But as a writer of fairy tales he has no equal and needs no apologies. "The Shepherdess and the Sweep" is a typical Andersen fairy tale. The heroine is the same charming, undeveloped girl of almost all the fairy tales and the hero is the same gentle, handsome, and fearless young man, and their love is of the kind visualized by children. Stripped, the story is the old one of the hard parent who wished his only daughter to marry for money and position. The daughter, however, chose to fall in love with a penniless young man. She had courage enough to run away with him, but not courage enough to face the big, unkind world. She forced the young man back to the starting place, and weakly hoped that something would happen so that they could be married and still live within the protection of the little world she had known. That something happened, of course. The hard parent's vanity was hurt?hurt so badly that rather than disclose his little shame to the suitor he had chosen, he allowed the girl to remain with her lover. The story is so perfect that one would not want to change a word nor an idea. It has all the charm and delicacy of a faintly tinted flower or a piece of filagree work, 477 and it has about it the fragrance that goes with a delightful short story. It is interesting to note how well Andersen has identified his inanimate objects with their true characteristics. There is the old Chinese who preferred to stand either in silence or to sleep rather than to argue or exert himself and who was too proud to tell the world about the rivet in his back; the potpourri-jar with its sweetish sentimentality; and the china girl who was made of such fragile stuff that' she could not live in the rough world. Questions: "Henrik and Rosalie' What situation furnishes the conflict for this story? What is the conflict? Are you conscious of the changed point of view when you read the story? In what ways were Henrik and Rosalie alike? How did they differ fundamentally? What things definitely mark this as a Danish story? When the lovers were re-united, which one was first to recognize that the old ties might still exist. Why?: Why did Henrik conceal the reason for his chance coming to the country estate? What incidents furnish the local color in this story? How many characters are clearly portrayed? Show that the author either knows or does not know how to portray character. "The Shepherdess and the Sweep" What are some of the ear marks of an Andersen fairy tale? Use this story as a basis for your answer. Name other fairy tales written by Andersen. If possible have some member of the class relate briefly the story of "The Emperor's New Clothes." 478 It has been said that everything Andersen's fancy touched, it invested with life and beauty. Show how this is done in the story of the Shepherdess. To what objects does he give personification? What things in the story show that Andersen often had the viewpoint of a child? Point: out definite style marks. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Is there a moral to this story? Which is the more important, the character element or the touch of fantasy? State briefly the theme or underlying thought of the story. Is the "Shepherdess and _ the Sweep" typically Danish, or is it world-wide in its application. Social Service (Fourth Week in October) PERSONALITY STUDY: PSYCHOLOGY AND PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT (Based on Overstreet?Influencing Human Behavior, pp. 1-41.) In the June issue of the Magazine page 322 will be found a brief introduction to the coming season's lesson work in this department. We may here add that although we shall find our text of last year helpful again, the proposal is not another hasty skimming through that very interesting and stimulating 'book. Many have expressed a desire to master it more thoroughly?especially those parts that we tended most to slight last season. A sincere effort will be made to make a new and fresh approach to some of the phases of our general topic which are considered most helpful and practical as a basis for intelligent social service work. Also by trying to make the Magazine lessons rather easy and attractive it is hoped that an even wider circle of women and, perhaps, men too, will become actively interested in studying these lessons and in undertaking that most worthwhile of all jobs?the improving and enriching of their own lives. But let no one be deceived into thinking that the aims of this course of lessons can be accomplished by women coming together once a month merely to be entertained by some resourceful person in charge of the lesson presentation. _We are glad that we have evidence that an increasing number of our members are equipping themselves individually with the printed lesson material, that they are quite willing to look up the occasional difficult word in a good dictionary, and that they are showing a most commendable earnestness in the somewhat difficult matter of increasing their personal efficiency. ? It is our privilege in these lessons, to become better acquainted with some of the findings of a comparatively new science which just now is attracting more than ordinary attention and interest among intelligent and progressive layman. This mew science-psychology has come to deal more and more with matters of vital concern to everybody and fortunately there is an increasing disposition on the part of reputable psychologists themselves to write and speak in terms that are not very difficult for us all to understand. Where formerly the very term "psychology" tended to confuse, mystify and even frighten the average man, it is now quite generally understood as referring simply to that branch of science which deals LESSON DEPARTMENT with mental life and behavior. Most of us have come to realize that we have already picked up a good deal about the facts and principles of mental activity and that we have long been making use of our understanding of human nature in the various relations of our daily lives. What we need is a more vivid realization of the fact that too much of our incidentally acquired knowledge of human nature is incomplete and even inaccurate. One of the benefits of this course should be a more widespread ability to quickly recognize the marks of what we might call quack psychology. We shall not be so easily taken in by the strange mixtures of good common sense, high sounding big words and expensive bunk dispensed over the radio, in so-called free lectures and in "consultations"' by a certain class of itinerant social parasites who generally succeed in getting themselves announced as "eminent psychologists". We shall not share with the superstitious and the uninformed a lot of pitifully naive notions about '"'will-power", "thought vibrations", "spiritual psychology", "character reading''; "laws of success", "temperament analysis', "numerology", "the luck of chain letters", etc. We Shall learn to check up just a little on these "renowned authorities" by looking up their scientific standing in such accounts as those given in "American Men of Science', "Who's Who in America', and the American Psychological Association Year Book". Even in using directories like these we shall need to learn to discriminate between those whose training has qualified them in psychology and those who may be especially trained in other specialized fields. We shall learn not to waste time with books or magazines with words like "psychology" and 'psychological' in 479 their titles if they can not be endorsed by the responsible people in charge of the psychology departments of our reputable colleges and universities. Let us very briefly illustrate the need of taking precautions here such as we should take in obtaining the services of a competent optician or surgeon. Not very long ago a Salt Lake City newspaper gave an account of the apprehension in Nevada of an ex-minister of the Gospel who some weeks previously had been operating in Salt Lake City as a "psychologist" giving "free" matrimonial, vocational, and business advice. His first move was to get himself introduced before a local church congregation as a famous psychologist. In fact he gave one of his inspirational free lectures before a large audience in the church building with the approval and apparent gratitude of the resident minister. Soon he was "helping" credulous people place "sure thing" bets on horse races down in Texas. It later developed that he had gone on to greener pastures carrying with him hundreds of dollars belonging to the people he had so easily duped. Just yesterday the writer was told of how another quack psychologist had practically broken an otherwise happy home by his prying questions, his insinuating guesses and flattering comments made to an interested woman who had been tempted to make several appointments for private consultations with this unscrupulous all-knowing individual. An other so-called practical ''psychologist" with apparently good sponsorship recently gave a free lecture in each of a number of the larger cities of the state in which he played the local business men against the outside mail order houses and made interesting and attractive promises of his ability to furnish the long 480 sought-for antedote in the shape of five short evening periods of instruction. The "course" was said to be suitable for 'not only salesmen, but also physicians, dentists, lawyers, bankers, secretaries, teachers * * everyone * *". Although he seemed much opposed to our sending money out of the state and would have us stick to our home products yet he had us flocking to him in groups of 500 for wholesale "instruction" and paying our individual $10 contributions so that he was able to take thousands of dollars of our money with him out of the state in payment for his very brief services telling us amusing stories and giving the information and misinformation which incidentally went along with them. Almost every year this thing is repeated! The hopeful thing is that so many of us are anxious to have our everyday psychology overhauled. The increasing number and improved reliability of the magazine articles on the subject is good evidence on this point. A recent list of the twelve non-fiction books in most demand in the public libraries of America included Menninger's, The Human Mind, and Dimnet's The Art of. Thinking. Typical among the popular accounts of psychology which have come into the writer's hands during the last few months are Webb and Morgan's, Strategy in Handling People and Strecker and Appel's, Discovering Ourselves, A View of the Human Mind and How it Works.. For still further evidence of this popular recognition of the value of psychology; the reader is asked to consider the first paragraph of the author's foreword in our text. Surely it will be well for us too, to glean from reliable sources whatever of psychology will help us to become more effective in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE what Overstreet calls the ani. In practically all of this widespread interest in psychology, we see evidences that what we really want to know about is personality. We want to be able to understand and control human behavior as exhibited in our neighbors and associates. We also want to better understand ourselves and, if possible, to develop more attractive personal qualities. Two very inadequate notions of personality are still somewhat common. One stresses heredity and a rather hopeless general attitude. It is an arbitrary "gift of the gods'-??a. Wholly mysterious something over which we have no control. The other puts almost the entire emphasis upon mere external and physical accessories?such things as stylish clothing, eye lashes, grooming, cosmetics, jewelry, etc. The reader will find it both amusing and instructive to inquire just what is meant when people speak so glibly about this or that individual having such or such personality or about yet others whom, they say, have no personality at all. Too often you will find highly perfumed snobs, flattering sycophants, or people with mere oily manners, spoken of with approval and envy as actually having splendid, sparkling, or winsome personalities. This course of lessons should help rid us of any such vague or trivial notions of this frequently used term. We shall do well not to become over-impressed by mere propaganda which emphasizes heredity too much and environment too little. Perhaps we shall never fully understand just the relative importance of heredity on the one hand and environment on the other. However we can insist that the problem should not be unduly simplified, that the available facts be carefully analyzed, and that our supreme LESSON DEPARTMENT conclusions be drawn with a sufficient amount of caution. As to the biological or physical inheritance of mental and personality traits our conclusions at the present time should not be too hastily drawn. The frequently quoted Jukes-Edwards Kallikak "evidence" has recently been so much discredited that the latest edition of the 'Encyclopedia Britannica does not even so much as mention it in its splendid articles on "Heredity", "Eugenics", and "Mendelism." E. G. Conklin well expresses a sane modern attitude on this problem in an article from which the following is a brief quotation: "Particularly in the study of the development of mental and moral traits there is great need of caution against over-simplification. The web of hereditary, environmental and educational causes is so intricate that it is often impossible to decide whether a given trait is inherited or not, and it is usually impossible to predict what the character of offspring will be. * * * Undoubtedly the factors or causes of all kinds of development are found in heredity and environment, but with regard to the development of the most complex thing in all the world, viz., human personality, we are as children in the morning of time." Educators are recognizing that theirs is primarily the task of passing on to the child the great "spiritual possessions of the race', the institutions of civilization, or what has been called our 'Social Heredity." Personality is largely a matter of habit systems that have developed as a result of the experiences and the training through which we have passed, especially those of our early childhood. Carr says it "comprises all those traits and characteristics that make or mar our efficiency in 481 getting along with people, such as our courtesy, persuasiveness, determination, adaptability, self-confidence, attractiveness, etc." If we have not allowed ourselves to become too set in our ways then our personalities are still in the making. To deal effectively with such a complex thing as personality we had better not try to handle it all at once, but rather a small part at a time. It is being emphasized 'by competent psychologists that very significant and lasting personality traits are formed during infancy and that the chances that some of them will later be greatly modified during this life are very slight. Other traits are not so firmly fixed and it behooves us to 'improve many of them and to keep ourselves plastic and teachable as long as possible. The ideal of Latter-day Saints is to preserve the meek or teachable attitude throughout eternity. We should never allow our personalities to shrivel up or to cease to grow. When we really come to appreciate what the term, "personality" means as defined in modern psychological and philosophical discussions, we shall not wonder at those writers who say that "persons, not things, represent the only true values," or the "the ultimate test or measure of the worth of an institution is the kind of personality it tends to produce." PROBLEMS FOR DISCUSSION 1. Consider carefully what to you was the most valuable thing learned in these lessons during the last season's work. 'Write it out briefly and come prepared to read your statement to the other members. What is your special interest in this course for the present season? 2. Most students develop the habit of marking their individually 482 owned books both as an aid in the mastery and as a convenient means disadvantages of too much underlining? Explain just how to use a better device?that of using one or more vertical lines in the outside margins of your text. (See Magazine for August, 1930, page 459.) 3. Try to give a clear explanation of just what is meant by the term, "psychology." How is common-sense psychology to be distinguished from scientific psychology? What are some of the common uses and abuses of psychology? (A supplementary reference that will be found helpful on this problem is Poulson's Human Nature in Religious Education, the Teacher Training text for 1927-28, pp. 1-3.) 4. Why do modern psychologists avoid listing a group of human instincts as a basis for their discussions of personality? They tend to stress social heredity rather than biological or physical heredity. What are some of the advantages of this newer attitude? (Supplementary help may be found in Poulson's 'Human Nature, pp. 8-12, 160-161.) 5. What are some of the unsatisfactory notions extant as to the nature of personality? Explain as nearly as you can what is meant by personality in the best sense of the word. Think of a few of the truly great personalities that you know most about and mention several of their essential and outstanding personal traits. To what extent do the following expressions describe these same individuals: (a) suave, (b) oily-mannered, (c) tolerant, (d) radof RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hastily reviewing. What are the ical, (e) conservative, (f) fond of fashionable clothes, (g) aggressive, (h) one of the socially elite, (i) humble, (j) cheerful, (k) diffident, (1) courageous, (m) serious, and (n) candid. (A good dictionary may well be used in connection with this problem. ) 6. Find these phrases in the first twenty pages of our text and comment briefly on each: "our chief task in life,' "what modern psychology has to offer," "sincere but blundering,' "who is it that wins?," 'one of the chief ingredients of attractiveness,' "ways far more subtle than we suspect," '"A wiser canvasser rings the doorbell." 7. Give an original illustration or two of the "challenge" technique. What are its advantages. Tell of some interesting psychological observations which you have made since reading the first paragraph on page 26 of the text. Elaborate as well as you can, upon Overstreet's statement that "a father ought to induce his children to want to do what he wishes them to do." 8. Make a list of ten or a dozen fundamental human wants and comment upon the extent to which each has probably been acquired by the individual because of his experiences. 9, Let some member of the group prepare to read the first speech of Hotspur in Act I, Scene III of Shakespeare's Henry the Fourth, Part I. Comment briefly on the two different personalities that are contrasted in this speech.
