The Spirit of Christmas Elder Mark E. Petersen Member of the Council of the Twelve What does Christmas really mean? Brushing aside all the worldly traditions and the customs made as it should be viewed, and what do you see there? You see the beginning of an earthly mission with but one intent— to
bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man. You see the Jehovah of the Old Testament, the Creator of heaven and earth, born into this world as the Son of the Father of us all, the only begotten in the flesh. You see the Son of
God ushered into this world to overcome death and to provide a plan of salvation whereby each one of us may be saved from his own sins. You see the beginning of a ministry which eventually was to go into all the world, to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people, accompanied by a universal cry, ''Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand." That is what Christmas means. Are we willing to accept it on that basis, take it into our homes and permit its heavenly influence to pervade our lives? We have embraced the customs of man, with respect to Christmas. Are we as willing to embrace the real spirit of the Christ, and follow his bidding? What is the true spirit of Christmas as we should understand it in the light of the above definitions? First, there is the joy for the life
and mission of Christ. This was expressed by the angels on the first Christmas day. That joy has come down to us through the ages, it has spread over the world as a gift of heaven, allowing sinful man, for one day at least, to gain a slight taste of the happiness that might be his always if he would accept it. The
spirit of Christmas is a spirit of joy. The spirit of Christ brings joy, such
is his intent. Man is that he might have joy, and joy comes through service to the Almighty and to our fellow men. The next expression of the spirit of Christ as given us in the New Testament story is that which we read in the incident in the temple, when, as a twelve-year-old boy, the Christ talked with the learned doctors there. The expression to which we refer came when his mother
chided him for his absence: "Wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?" That is part of the spirit of Christ, a part which too few of us remember, at Christmas time or any other time. If we will but enter the true
spirit of Christmas, and make it a part of our lives, we will ever be 676 "about our Father's business." There would be little of the spirit of worldliness about us; there would be none of the waywardness that characterizes so many who profess to follow him; there would be none of the indifference with which so many people regard their religion; and none of the criticism of his Church and his authorized representatives here on earth. Rather, we would be working diligently in his kingdom, we would be earnestly supporting the program of his Church, and would sustain with our works those who direct his affairs in mortality. Were we truly "about our Father's business," which indeed is characteristic of the spirit of Christ, we would remember to keep the first and great commandment: to love the Lord our God with all our heart, might, mind and strength, and our neighbors as ourselves. We would think of that love in terms of service, very much as set forth in the Doctrine and Covenants, "see that ye serve him with all your heart, might, mind and strength, that ye may stand blameless before God at the last day." Another expression of the spirit of Christ is the spirit of humble obedience. This was displayed at the time of his baptism in Jordan. Although he was the Son of the Highest, although he made heaven and earth, he walked the humble path of obedience to the side of a man "not worthy to unloose the lachet of his shoes," and was baptized of him. Humility is one of the greatest of human traits. It is divine. It is characteristic of every true follower of the lowly Nazarene. It is representative of the spirit of Christ, in whose honor we observe Christmas. But with it goes obedience to the practice of the Church. Was Christ sinful, that he needed baptism? He was without sin. Yet he obeyed "to fulfill all righteousness." Can we do less if we truly follow him? The next important index to the spirit of Christ, as it appears in the New Testament story, is his resistance to temptation. Though Satan himself appeared to him, offering him the riches of the world if he would but succumb to his wiles, the Christ stood firm and true, never letting down the standards, never losing sight of what is most valued, never forgetting the pearl of great price. He resisted temptation, although he was in the midst of it. He retained his cleanliness and his purity because he turned his back upon the defiling influence of the adversary. It took character, yes, but he desires that we all have strong characters, he asks us to resist evil, he desires us to be clean. "THEN he gave the Sermon on the Mount, and with it the teachings of stability, mercy, love, and kindness. He taught men to give, for it is more blessed, than to receive; he taught them to regard all men as brethren and even love their enemies. Another doctrine at which some have scoffed, yet which, if followed, would take away much of the hatred and bitterness in the world, was taught—the doctrine of turning the other cheek. Likewise was forgiveness portrayed to the people. What, forgive one who offends us? Yes. How many times, seven? Yes, even seventy times seven. That, too, is the spirit of Christ. It was that spirit he carried with him to the cross, THE SPIRIT OF CHRISTMAS when he cried out, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do." Faith was another important mark of the spirit of Christ. He taught it in all he did, he plead with his followers to believe, he sorrowed at their unbelief. With this teaching came his appeal for repentance. Turn from your evil ways, practice righteousness, was his appeal. "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect." That was his goal for us all. Nothing was too high of attainment, not even perfection, and he urged men to seek it, unafraid. The spirit of prayer is the spirit of Christ. He not only taught men how to pray, but he prayed with them and for them, and one of the important things for which he plead was still another factor in the spirit of Christ—it was for unity, that his disciples might be, one, just as he and his Father were one. Discord has no place in the true spirit of Christ. Then, there was the spirit of resignation to the will of God. Each one of us sometime must make a choice between his own desires and the will of God. Each one of us must some day learn to say, "not my will but thine be done." This was the attitude of the Lord in Gethsemane. It, too, is part of the spirit of Christmas. After his triumphant resurrection, he exhibited still another quality which is part and parcel of the spirit of Christ—and Christmas—the spirit of missionary work, sharing our blessings with others. "Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel unto every creature." To the house 677 of Israel alone? Not at all. To the Gentiles? Yes, to every creature. It is our duty to warn every person, even our closest neighbors, that the "kingdom of heaven is at hand." Spread the glad tidings, invite all to drink of the well of living water and thirst no more, to join the banquet of the King, to join the fold of the Good Shepherd, accept his plan, work out salvation in fear and trembling, and endure to the end. Then it shall be said, "Come ye blessed of my Father, enter into the joy of your Lord." It is so easy for us all to become engulfed in the ways of this world, in the customs of man, and make of Christmas just another holiday of feasting and pleasure. But if we observe the true spirit of the day, we cannot exclude Christ and his mission from it. Christmas is celebrated because Christ came into the world, and he came to save us from death and sin. He offers the way by which we may once again come into the presence of God. Christ means salvation; salvation requires acceptance of the gospel; acceptance of the gospel means activity in the Church.. To be truly Christ-like then, is the reward of a true Christmas. So at this glad Yule season, let us renew our allegiance to him who was born in Bethlehem, crucified on Calvary, and came forth again as the living Savior and Redeemer of mankind. And with our allegiance to him, let us be loyal to his representatives on earth, and his plan of salvation as expressed in the program of the Church. Let us honor Christmas by honoring Christ, which means serving him and keeping his commandments.