[Vol32 | March 1945 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Work Aprons]

"Sister May Sloter, Relief Society president in Fairmont, had announced on Sunday that the work meeting would be held the following Wednesday afternoon. The time arrived for the appointed meeting and no one came but the president. She felt discouraged and somewhat upset, but she had said there would be Relief Society meeting so she conducted one. She announced the song and sang it, opened the meeting with prayer, sang again and then sat down and quilted for an hour. At the end of the hour she sang another song and dismissed the meeting with prayer. She put her work away and returned to her home with joy and satisfaction in her heart. Sister Sloter is loved and respected by the members of the Fairmont Branch and though the membership is small, after this example of faithfulness, all who possibly can now attend the meetings." Northern California Mission MARY SMITH ELLSWORTH, recently released president of Relief Societies of the Northern California Mission, wrote last June: "During the year thus far I have visited in every district with President Ellsworth. The most outstanding thing I find is the increased spirit of unity and cooperation and love among all our sisters. Our Relief Society meetings are held in most branches immediately following Sunday School; while the men Attend Priesthood meeting, the Relief Society and Primary convene.  RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS. THEIR HUSBANDS AND FRIENDS, TOYON BRANCH, NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION at the party at Toyon Community House, March 17, 1944 commemorating the 102d anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society.
Inset shows presidency with birthday cake, with President Lorena Humphries in center, and Counselors Mary K.
Hirst and Mabel Kloss, left and right, respectively.
Transportation facilities are more available on Sunday, especially in our outlying districts and where many of our people are engaged in war work. "It is the earnest desire of President Ellsworth to establish a suitable place of meeting for every branch in this mission, and in this the sisters are doing their full part.
This year two chapels have been dedicated and property has been purchased in eight branches. The sisters have given dinners not only for their own members, but, in several instances, have served for various clubs and groups who have paid them well.
They have held rummage sales to dispose of clothes collected from neighbors and friends as well as our own members.
Prior to the sales, these articles are washed or cleaned and mended; they bring in a very good price and help those who need them. High-type character balls and parties which included wholesome and amusing games have placed the sisters in touch with many, thus affording opportunity to teach the gospel by example as well as precept. "We have in the mission, now, 260 local missionaries, many of them our Relief Society sisters. We feel thankful for this, for our younger mothers are gaining experience and knowledge that will qualify them to teach their children the gospel. We appreciate the excellent lessons given us by the General Board.
They breathe the pure spirit of the gospel, impel us to action, and help to qualify us for real missionary work." Anna Duckett, secretary-treasurer of the Toyon (Redding, California) Branch Relief Society submitted last July the accompanying pictures and the following article by Eva S.