[Vol32 | March 1945 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The Relief Society in Romney]
What the ward undertakes to produce is determined by the bishop and the ward Relief Society president, in consultation with the stake welfare committee. The budget, therefore, reaches the ward through the welfare organization from the General Church Welfare Committee, and members of the General Relief So-city Presidency are advisers to that Board. The production of the budget is a ward responsibility under the leadership of the bishop and his ward welfare committee, of which the ward Relief Society president and work director are members. In too many instances the raising of the finances for the clothing budget is improperly left to the Relief Society.
This is a ward responsibility, and should be arranged for by the ward welfare committee as a whole, under the leadership of the bishop. The Relief Society should not be asked to bear this whole burden. An objective of Church Welfare is to afford opportunities for those who need or may need the commodities to produce them, in so far as they may and will. But the fact remains that the production of such items as bedding, clothing, kitchen and bathroom linen, as also the processing of meats, fruits, and vegetables, is assigned to and in large measure accomplished by the Relief Society sisters.
This is a tremendous undertaking, far and away greater than could be accomplished out of the funds formerly collected by the Relief Society, and carrying succor and relief to many more needy than the funds formerly collected could provide for.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MARCH 1945
The following figures will suggest the increased activity for helping the poor which has come to the Relief Society sisters participating in this service, and will suggest also the amount of that service and the numbers joining therein. Reports reveal that in 1943 alone  1944 statistics are not yet available  the Relief Society sisters made through their sewing services nearly a quarter million (244,636) articles, and that nearly three quarter million (709,494) hours were given to this service; 32,892 women per month participated; 23,114 of these articles were quilts of high quality and utility value. Not all of these items were for the Church Welfare budget, but a substantial part of them were. Canned for the bishops storehouse program, in 1943, were 1,300,000 cans of vegetables, fruits, jams, and spreads, and 33,800 cans of meat, fish, and fowl. Most of the work involved in this processing was done by members of the Relief Society. We doubt if any other women's philanthropic organization in the world can parallel this remarkable record. Sisters of the Relief Society, your unbroken record of loyal service to the objects set before you by the Prophet of the new dispensation deserves the approval of heaven and the plaudits of men. It is gratifying to know that, at the beginning of your second century, you are continuing with all the good works of the past, and that you are, at the same time, moving in to wider fields of service with renewed faith and vigor. May the Lord grant that, ministering under the power of his spirit, you may so serve the distressed of this and future generations that they may have added cause "to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads."
