[Vol32 | March 1945 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Pohlman]
Delightful homes with electricity and modern conveniences are seen in the once-wilderness. And now, six years later, "The women worked long and hard to build these homes even though they knew they were to live there but a few years.
Some of the women were sickly, some were old, some were having children, but they all had the desire for a home of their own. One family took the red clay, formed it into bricks, and, in one year, built for themselves a spacious six-room home that is now one of the social centers of the branch. "Gardens were made in the red clay by the women and children who carried fertilizer and sand from the river banks.
Much to everyone's amazement, the gardens produced. The daughters of the pioneers are still helping to make a garden spot in the West, and are seeing that their children are raised in the culture of home and Church. "The Toyon Branch covers ten square miles. All of the visiting teachers are women who have families of small children, but their work has been done efficiently and on time. The loid anniversary of the organization of the Relief Society was observed March 17 by the Toyon Branch?
Crystal candles, wild ferns, redbud and forsythia decorated the community house and an unforgettable program was presented. The war and the closing scenes at Shasta Dam are now sending this group on again to new fields, to new homes.
They will carry their spirit of love and endeavor into new communities that have never heard of Mormons or witnessed their industry. "Good luck to you all and Godspeed?modern pioneer women." New England Mission ELDER FOLEY C. RICHARDS was auxiliary supervisor for the mission at the time he submitted the following account, last August: "Again the Relief Society plays the pioneer role in New England, this time in the 'Pilgrim Town,' Plymouth, Massachusetts, where America's forefathers settled three hundred and twenty-four years ago. "On May 23, 1944, a Relief Society was organized there?the first organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints to be established in Plymouth.
Under the direction of President William H. Reeder, Jr., Bertha S. Reeder, mission Relief Society president, and Elder Ted L. Miller, district president, this Society was organized with six members.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 189 FOUR RELIEF SOCIETIES OF THE WESTERN STATES MISSION (Pictures submitted by Luceal R. Curtis, recently released president of the Relief Societies of this mission.) Top row, left to right: Relief Society at Salida, Colorado; Relief Society at Fruita, Colorado, observes the 102d anniversary. Bottom row, left to right: Belle Fourche (South Dakota) Branch also celebrates 102d anniversary of Relief Society; Relief Society at Grand Junction, Colorado. Three of these were Latter-day Saints at the time; one has subsequently been baptized, and the other two are earnest investigators of the gospel. All are the fruits of recent missionary labor. 'These good sisters are enthusiastically meeting together each week, and the future of their group is promising indeed. Each has had to face the usual criticism which attends one who is willing to subscribe to 'Mormon' beliefs, and the Church can be justly proud of them for their Pilgrim spirit of loyalty to their convictions and for their service which makes possible this Latter-day Saint organization in New England's oldest town." Lola Humphreys, writing in the fall of 1944 as auxiliary supervisor, reported the successful Relief Society convention held September 2', at Cambridge, Massachusetts (the mission headquarters) for Relief Society officers. She continues: 'The careful planning which took place several weeks in advance, contributed greatly to the success of the conference which was very well attended by approximately 75
Relief Society officers. "During the forenoon session, a detailed and instructive outline of the duties of the officers was given by Mission Relief Society President Bertha S. Reeder. The remaining time was spent in the bearing of testimonies. At noon, a delicious buffet luncheon was served in one of the rooms of the Cambridge chapel from a table very attractively arranged with candles and flowers. In the afternoon, several talks were given in the homes of different Relief Society branches, and the Singing Mothers of Hartford, Connecticut, offered three beautiful numbers, at intervals.
"The enthusiasm and zeal with which Sister Reeder discussed the problems and with which she delivered her remarks were transferred to every one present. In spite of the fact that some of the members had had travel much more capable of carrying home the day before, they all felt much more capable of carrying on their duties after the convention."
A comprehensive mimeographed bulletin was distributed, carrying a concise and explicit digest of duties of officers and of new instructions, and also a narrative history of the several local Relief Societies in the mission for 1943-44, indicating the problems, activities, and accomplishments of each.
Hawaiian Mission
OLIVIA S. Waddoups, former Relief Society president of this mission, wrote in March 1944: "Brother Waddoups is superintendent of the Leper-asylum here at Kalaupapa. We find a wide field for service to these people who, though entirely confined for life within this area of about 12 square miles, are very happy, cheerful, and contented. They are also very war conscious, buying bonds and stamps to the extent of three times their quota. They are well taken care of by the Territory. We have a very modern hospital, two capable doctors whose wives are nurses in the hospital, five other nurses; 12
Catholic Sisters who manage the hospital, five other nuns; two Catholic priests; one Congregational minister, his wife and three members of his family; the plantation manager and planter; and the general manager for the United States Public Health Service; the Bishop of the Roman Catholic Church; four Brothers who are in charge of the Leper Home for Men; the Catholic, with Reverend Alice, a real Hawaiian lady, to look after her congregation; and our L.D.S. Church. The Elders visit us monthly, and we have a patient here who is the Presiding Elder. We have the smallest congregation but our members are very active and interested.
"The Relief Society sisters who are well enough to get out are very active. Last Sunday we held an anniversary meeting commemorating March 17. We all came dressed in white; there were 9 of us, and 12 young girls and 16 of the Priesthood. I am sure this was the most unique anniversary meeting in the Church. All but two of us are victims of the disease?myself and Sister Kalahau, a very little one, but we try to keep who is blind but who leads the group in their singing. In the group that furnished the singing there were four blind, two on crutches, and others who needed help to get around. But they sang beautifully, and bore testimony that the Lord was good, and kind, and that they were very grateful for the Relief Society organization.
