[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | March | Issue: 19 | Title: N.A.W. S. A. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

N.A.W. S. A.

[Continued.]
	Now then do we understand the intricate
problems of state which come up before
us? Is it not wonderful how deep those
problems are as soon as the women want to
have anything to do with them. I had not
had much experience and I did not know
as much about politics as I do now when I
went up to our Legislature with great fear
and trembling in my heart for fear the pro-
blem before us would be so deep and pro-
found, but when I expressed my fear to the
lady who was with me she said undoubted-
ly I could understand it. So we went up 
into the gallery where they keep us women
and the Clerk read something from the
desk and I did not understand a word.
Then a gentleman took the floor, run his
fingers through his hair and I listened with
great eagerness to what he was going to
say and the first word I heard him say was
"fish." He talked for an hour or two.
He declared it was better for the farmers of
Massachusetts, better for the great institu-
tions of Republicanism, better for this mag-
nificent, free and independent government,
that we catch fish on a hook; and the other
side took up their side of the question and
with just as much vehemence declared that
fish ought to be caught with a seine. And
for three days and a half they argued this
deep and profound problem, catching fish,
and then when they put it to a vote, they
decided with a Republican majority to catch
them both ways. (laughter.) I had such
good success that time I thought I would
go back again and the next time I went up
they had the subject of “lobster” under
discussion. They had a lobster there and
were measuring it with a rule, to see how
long a lobster should be allowed to grow
before it should be caught and sold upon
the market. They finally decided that if
any man caught a lobster which did not
measure 10 1/2 inches, he would be fined
$5.00 and two, $10.00. And I said “What
are you going to do with the young lobsters
in the future?” They said they were going
to stay there and they would catch all the
old ones and sell the old and tough ones
that came in. So we got the old lobsters,
and New York got the tender ones. So 
they went on and protected every living
thing on the earth except folks. So we
went up and said: “Now gentlemen, you
have protected the baby fish, how shall
men catch baby boys, one at a time on the
hook or with a snare as they are catching
them in the dens of vice in the cities?" We
had permission to withdraw, and if there is
anything we women know how to do it is
to withdraw. We all went back again and
we said: “Nowgentlemen, you have
protected the baby lobster until it is 10 1/2
inches long, and won't you protect the
baby girl until she is as old as the lobster is
long?" And we said: “Gentlemen, you
have protected all living and breathing
things in the City of Boston, that Athens
of America, that center of culture in the
United States where we have Faneuil Hall,
where we have a school of philosophy,
where we have a John L. Sullivan and
where we have a greater portion of the cul-
ture that this nation has been able to pro-
duce.” We said: Now you have protected
everything can’t you protect beaten wives
for we have 2,000 cases of cruel wife beat-
ing every year in the slums of the City; and
I was a dispensing physician. The bill we


[Column 1]
drew up was the best bill I ever saw and it
read like this: “Any man who brutally
beats his wife shall be beaten in turn and
sentenced to not more than 40 nor less than
20 days." Some one said “Miss Shaw,
you are a missionary.” I said “Yes.”
Would you like to see such a man then go
to a home and see the poor little woman
who was dying, and when her husband
came home he wanted her to get right up
and get his supper. He caught her by the
hair and dragged her out of the bed on the 
floor and then kicked her with his great
boots until she was almost insensible; and
what was done to that man. He was sent
up for sixty days to the Island. This hap-
pened along in May. Now this Island is a 
beautiful spot in Boston Harbor. There is
a building upon the Island, one of the most
beautiful buildings—it was a contract
building. (Laughter.) That was where
they sent him and he was given a room all
to himself and three straight meals a day
and the gentle zephyrs of the Atlantic
fanned his fevered brow; he spent the hot
summer months in that delightful way,
while his wife got a chance to stay at home
and take care of the children and earn a
living for him. Now we wanted him to be
punished. When a man gets to be so
brutal and so beastly that he beats a woman
and so cowardly that he beats a woman be-
cause she can’t beat him back, then they
put him on the road breaking stones and
they pay his wages to his wife to support
the family, and on Saturday night they
lock him up in jail and on Monday morning
set him to work again breaking stones.
This is the plan that is adopted by one of
our states. If I could have a say in that
beating law I would set him to breaking
stones and when he would use his muscle
up on stones he would not beat his wife.
Then they gave us permission to withdraw.
As we women were going out we met
several men, we learned they were a com-
mittee from the Milk Dealers Association of
the State of Massachusetts they wanted pro-
tection for their milk cans—they had been
followed up by some people who had been
stealing the milk out of the cans and had
battered the cans all up. So these men
got protection just three hours after their
bill was taken up. I never can remember
anything exactly, I never could memorize
anything but that bill was something like
this: “Any person or persons who inter-
feres with the milk cans or who will erase
the name of the owner of a milk can from
the milk can of the milk dealer or milk
dealers or defaces a milk can owned by a
milk man or a milk dealer or milk dealers
shall be fined not to exceed $100.00 or
three months imprisonment. Exactly word
for word the same as the fine imposed on a
man for brutally beating his wife is the fine
imposed for mutilating a milk can and these
men got the milk bill passed so easily and I
said to them: “Why is it that you can get
your milk cans protected.” And they said:
“We are a committee from a great organiza-
tion and if this legislature had not passed a
bill which was so just in the interests of our
business, every man there knows he would
be defeated next year and some other man
would come up in his place. So we per-
-ceived that if the women of Massachusetts
had the right to vote, their bill too in refer-
ence to wife beating would have been
passed. It is the power of the ballot that
wins. Why is it that the great politicians
of the west who desire to go to congress

[Column 2]
nearly break their necks trying to show the
people of this country that every man be-
lieves in silver. Why didn’t they ten years
ago? Simply because silver has organized
itself into a political power that is all, and
today the man who has any political am-
bitions must be a firm advocate of silver or
else his political ambitions are dead. Every
time we have attempted to do anything or
to get anything or to get any law changed
to benefit the condition of women we have
always had to go to men. Why did it take
us women in Massachusetts three years to
get a bill passed which enabled a married
woman to own her own clothes. When a
woman is married does she not earn her
board and clothes and her husband must be
the judge of the kind of clothes she must
wear and after she has earned her own
clothes they don’t belong to her. She
thought she was wearing her own clothes
but she was not, she was wearing her
husband's clothes all the time. We never
did find out what the law was until we had
a lawsuit. A lady traveling over the
Boston and Albany Railway lost a trunk
full of clothes. She brought suit against
the company and the defense made by the
Railway Company was that she was a mar-
ried woman and consequently she could not
have lost any clothes because a married wo-
man’s wardrobe belongs to her husband.
	If it is true that a married woman does
not own her own clothes and it took us
three years to find it out in Massachusetts,
one half of the women in the United
States to day do not own their own clothes.
It took us just ten years to get a bill passed
to bury widows and during all that time we
went on burying widows just as we bury
widowers until a certain mother-in-law de-
cided the widow should never be buried be-
side her son, and the widow went on and
the mother-in-law served an injunction and
to the amazement of everybody no widow
had ever been legally buried in the State,
and no widow was entitled to be buried in a
family burying ground. A widow is en-
titled to a life interest in one third of a
cemetery lot and a life use of a cemetery
lot is of no especial use to anybody.
(Laughter.) We climbed up Beacon Hill
for ten consecutive years buttonholing the
members smiling and arguing and talking
by the yard to make those men see the rea-
sonableness of a widow to be buried until
she had the good sense to die. I never
knew before why the old cod-fish had been
suspended over the speaker’s desk—but in
the old room it hung suspended from the
dome. They put it up there so the women
would have something to look at. So for
ten years we sat up in the gallery gazing on
the big stuffed cod-fish and down on the
little stuffed cod fish below (laughter) and
finally when the bill was passed we began to
bury widows—of course we could not bury
them before, they all had to wait until the
bill was passed. It was not gallantry nor
courtesy nor chivalry that prompted them
to pass the bill, it was because we worried
the life out of them and that was the only
way they saw to get rid of us. So long as
he law regulates everything that touches
our lives why have we not the right to ex-
press our will and our wishes in regard to
the laws. So long as politics meddle with
us—so long as the law meddles with us so
long have we the right to meddle with it
(applause.) If you ask me why we wo-
men want the ballot I say because the bal-
lot is able to regulate and control things.

[Column 3]
The reason why I want the ballot is because
I am a human being—I have the right to
life a right to the pursuit of happiness and
the right to liberty and if I have a right to
life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness I
have a right to the power that protects my
life and protects me in the pursuit of hap-
piness and liberty in this country and that
power is the ballot and the ballot alone.
(Appluse.)
	Adjourned at 10-30 to meet at the As-
sembly Hall, Tuesday morning at 10
o’clock.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


