[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | March | Issue: 19 | Title: OBITUARIES. | Author: Unknown]

	OBITUARIES.

IT becomes the painful duty to record the
death of one of our dear sisters of the Relief
Society.of this Stake of Zion; Sister Mary Larrette
Picton Teasdale, daughter of James and Jane
Phillips Picton and wife of Apostle George Teas-
dale, who died at Colonia Juarez Chihuahua,
Old Mexico, of pulmonary emplysema and
dropsy, Dec. 14th, 1895. Was born at Nephi,
Juab County, Utah, May, 26th, 1863.
	Sister Teasdale leaves a husband and three
children to mourn her loss; one an infant, nine
months old, also her sister’s children, two boys,
and many friends who deeply sympathize with the
family, in their bereavement.
	She held position at time of her decease as
first Counselor to Stake President of Young
Ladies’ Mutual Asnociation, President of Stake
Primary Association and member of Relief
Society. Sister Teasdale was a Latter-day Saint
in very deed, an earnest worker for the cause of
truth, was kind and benevolent to all around her,
and although she suffered much was never heard
to complain. All was done for her that loving
hands could do, but she finally succumbed to the
inevitable; she spoke of her death calmly to a
dear friend a few days previous; and although
leaving an affectionate husband and loving

[Column 2]
children, she felt resigned to the will of her
Heavenly Father; dying firm in the faith of a
glorious resurrection with the Just.
	We recognize in the death of Sister Teasdale,
the loss of a faithful, energetic worker, a friend
to the needy, a comforter in the hour of trouble,
we esteem her faithful labors and devotion to the
interests of Zion as worthy the emulation of every
member of our society. Therefore be it resolved
	That we condole and sincerely sympathize with
the bereaved husband, children and friends in the
loss of a faithful wife, loving mother and sincere
friend.
	Resolved that these resolutions be inscribed
in our Records of the Relief Society, and that we
publish the same in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Gone, dear sister, thou hast left us,
Our Father in wisdom has bereft us;
Gone, to dwell in a higher sphere,
And left us awhile to sojourn here.

Bereft of thee, sister, causes anguish and pain;
But, as, our loss is your infinite gain,
We meekly bow to the chastening rod,
And, acknowledge the hand of the Lord our God.

Husband, children and friends deplore thy loss,
But are seeking nobly to bear their cross,
Knowing that thy salvation’s sure;
As thou didst unto the end endure.

’Tis true the trial is severe,
But we will seek your loved ones to cheer,
And with them bow beneath the Rod,
And seek to serve the Lord our God.

And now thou hast laid thy body down;
And gone to wear a righteous crown,
Our race also, will soon be run,
Our work on earth will soon be done.

What consolation, this doth give—
To know that thou didst nobly live,
O may we ever faithful be,
And share celestial joys with thee.
	H.S.B.

