[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | March | Issue: 19 | Title: LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Semi-Monthly Meeting
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall, Jan.
25th 1896, President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Singing, “Now we’ll sing with one
accord.” Prayer by Sister Lydia D. Alder.
Singing “Welcome best of all good meet-
ings.” Minutes of the previous meeting
read and accepted.
	President Horne said she was happy to
see and meet with us to-day. Spoke of a
letter just recieved from a young man who
had been helped to go to the Keeley,
thought this was good seed sown. She
said she had read in the Book of Mormon
about those who wanted to do good and
help those in distress but who were pre-
vented by circumstances. Thought we
should feel for those in trouble and comfort
and help them, for this was our mission.
Spoke of prayer, said Joseph Smith set a
noble example; spoke of purity, felt to
grieve over young people going astray.
Thought the fathers should talk to their
sons as well as the mothers to talk to the
daughters. The speaker felt grateful that
she lived in this peaceful valley, also for the
many blessings which she enjoyed, prayed
the peace of God to be with us.
	Sister E. S. Taylor said we had all come
here to-day to get more of the Spirit of God
and to renew our strength; said we were
living in perilous times; many things were

[Column 2]
creeping in to wean the people from the
things of God. Wealth was one great
thing. Said she heard President Young
say the time would come when the people
would be tried with wealth; knew we must
be tried in all things. Sister Catherine
Forsythe bore a strong testimony. A sis-
ter said she constantly prayed for wisdom,
that that was the greatest thing to ask for.
She had no comfort outside the gospel; felt
it was a noble thing to look after the poor,
she loved them. Sister Carlhurst bore a
faithful testimony; spoke of her Temple
work and the joy it gave her.
	Counselor Annie Hyde said she enjoyed
hearing the testimonies of her sisters, and
that it strengthened her very much. Spoke
of the severe illness of her little son and
knew he had been healed by administration
under the hands of Sister Mary Ann Hyde.
Sister Sampson exhorted mothers to look
after their daughters and gain their confi-
dence and be one with them. Made other
good remarks.
	Sister Nunn bore her testimony to the
goodness of God. Spoke of a very severe
illness she had been afflicted with and told
how she had been healed almost instantly
by administration. Said she had prophe-
cied and seen the fulfillment of it. Sister
Marguerite O. Brown loved to speak of the
goodness of God. Told of an awful acci-
dent which happened to her little son and
the faith she had for him and was able to
exercise. Said her neighbors wanted to go
for a doctor but she said no. She prayed
over him and heard a voice say in her ear,
“Fear not your child will be all right.”
He was healed and she knew it was the
prayer of faith which saved him. Sister
Elizabeth Parks spoke of the healing
power which was in our midst, also of
prayer. Related an instance of her being
very sick and she requested her name
handed in at one of these meetings to be
prayed for. Said she had felt it all
through her body and had been healed.
Sister Mary Gurber said she could bear
testimony to the last speaker’s remarks,
for she was the one who requested her
prayed for; felt to rejoice that these gifts
and blessings were ours.
	Sister Jane James spoke of the great
blessing Sister Zina Young had been to
her. Bore a strong testimony and prayed
she might always be faithful. Sister
Sophia Nuttall spoke of making home
pleasant so children will want to stay
there. Our first thought should be of
our children. Felt that those who were
born in these days had a great work to
do. Sister Zina Card made an announce-
ment about the Exponent, also about
Sister Sorenson and her great work and
that she was trying to form a class here.
Exhorted the sisters to watch their child-
ren and train them. Said dress was noth-
ing in comparison to their virtue and
character. Spoke of treating our hired
help kindly. Said she did not believe in
class distinction, felt that the Spirit of
God was here. Prayed God to bless us
all.
	President Horne made a few closing
remarks. Had a little business to lay be-
fore the sisters, felt it was hardly the
thing to speak of temporal things after
such a feast as we had had.
	Meeting was adjourned for two weeks.
Singing “Do what is right.’’ Benediction
by Sister E. J. Stevenson.
ZINA HYDE, Ass’t. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
