[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | March | Issue: 19 | Title: FADED FACES. | Author: Unknown]

FADED FACES.

ONE of the saddest sights, to me,
	Is a wrinkled, care-worn face, 
That once was lovely and bright and fair,
With beaming eyes, all free from care,
	Adorned with a nameless grace.
And the form now bent, once straight and grand,
	With the carriage of a queen
The step now feeble and careful and slow,
Was active and quick in the long ago, 
	As any that might be seen.
No thought of sorrow, of death or decay
	Had marred the spirit then,
The awful truth that all things here 
Must change, like the seasons of the year,
	Was far beyond the ken.
Oft have I asked, “why must it be
	That this wonderful work of God,
Must wither and wrinkle and fade and die
Before it can bloom in the worlds on high,
	E’en crumble beneath the sod.
As I look in some faces, the story I read
	Of a sorrowful, weary life
Despondency and hope deferred
Have left deep lines, tho’ never a word
	Has been uttered to tell of the strife.
Disappointment bitter sad and deep
	In other faces I see,
With traces of agony, moans and tears
Suffered through long and weary years,
	Asking “when shall I be free.’’
Despair in others has done its work
	In lasting scars, and deep,
And reason has almost been dethroned
By the aching brain, and the soul has moaned
	In anguish that could not weep
 Some are worn and weary with toil 
	Too hard for the delicate frame,
Through all the day and half the night,
The tired muscles kept up the fight
	Each weekly round the same.
Others bear traces of physical pain
	Which was very hard to endure, 
For years, perhaps, the weary soul
With patience has borne, till sweet control, 
	Has made the spirit pure.
Oh! The mothers of men: What a toilsome life,
	Is theirs from their early years.
And the pitying Father must look down,
And prepare for such a glorious crown,
	Where is found no sorrow or tears.

[Column 2]
Now, I will tell you what gives me joy
	As I look in these faces worn,
’Tis the hope that the Resurrection Day.
Will renew each body and smooth away
	Each line that mars, and remove each thorn.
The countenance then will shine as the sun,
	Being glorious to behold,
As robed in white ’round the throne of God,
Having passed from under afflictions rod,
	No more to grow wrinkled and old.
They’ll sing His praises forever more,
	Who redeemed them by His love,
Their peace will flow like a river fair,
His sons and daughters together share,
	The joys of the realms above.
						MARY A. FREEZE.


