[Vol5 | January 1918 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Fruits of Endeavor Ruth Moench Bell]

Fruits of Endeavor. By Ruth Moench Bell. There was a sensation in North Hammond when Louise Renshaw, one of America's leading artists, came seeking a model for a painting. "I was through here, on my way to the coast, five years ago," she explained to Mrs. Cheevers, who had been pointed out to her as the woman most interested in art in the town. "I saw at the station then a woman whose face I have never been able to forget. She was gazing after the moving train with a look of infinite peace as though the currents of her life had been stilled into a majestic calm." "I cannot imagine whom you mean," Mrs. Cheevers observed, as the artist paused, seemingly absorbed in musings concerning her painting. "Behind her in a lot," the artist continued, "just beyond the station was a pear tree, in the fulness of its autumnal beauty. Not a stray branch projected beyond the prescribed bounds of the shapely whole. It was as if the tree had been moulded and colored by a master hand to whom it subjected its own will with faith and confidence in the ultimate harmony." For some time the artist sat rapt in the vision that some day was to inspire thousands. After while she resumed, as much to herself as to her interested listener. "I have never forgotten that tree or the face of that woman. Every autumn they renew their hold on me. This autumn I came here hoping to find her and paint the picture which I shall call 'Fulfilment.' In the tree: fulfilment of all the promises of spring, the rich ripening of summer's radiance and the repose after labor joyfully accomplished. In the woman: the fulfillment of her girlhood's sweet promises, the rich ripening of her womanly experiences and the lovely repose following her acceptance of the Divine decree. Each was in tune with the Creator to produce a masterpiece. I should like to be an instrument in the Divine Will to interpret that masterpiece and bid it live and breathe its message on canvas."

A hush had fallen over the two; the hush that follows the organ prelude in a cathedral. Finally the artist went on: "It seems to me that this woman has lived and suffered and grown sweeter and more tender under pain. Her wonderful calm beneath it had a richness of experience, a wealth of endeavor, a fulfillment of longings that were worthy or possible, and a masterly

FRUITS OF ENDEAVOR. 31

subjection of the unworthy or impossible. She seemed so at home here, I thought she must be a resident. And yet you do not seem to recognize her."

"You have described her soul," Mrs. Cheevers sighed, "few of us could recognize the other's soul. We look only at the husk that holds it."

Two weeks passed. Louise Renshaw visited the Relief Society, the Sewing Circle, and made many house to house calls. Yet failed to find the woman she sought. What she did find, however, she confided with pride to Mrs. Cheevers, who had gladly consented to share the comforts of her home with the famed artist.

"I have an aunt seventy years old," Miss Renshaw confided to Mrs. Cheevers in one of their intimate fireside chats. "I wish she might have visited you 'Mormon' women some twenty years ago. For twenty years she has been telling us that she would not be long with us. For twenty years she has been deploring the fact that she had no opportunity for education when she was a girl. For twenty years she had been nursing aches and pains and magnifying symptoms by continually dwelling on them.

"You women seem so well. You stand so straight. You seem so well educated, so well posted on all matters. You are so dainty and neat in person and dress. How is it? Is it all a part of your religion?"

"Yes, it is all a part of our religion," Mrs. Cheevers breathed with inward conviction, "it is a part of our doctrine of eternal progression. We believe that our bodies will be resurrected, therefore we want them as worthy of resurrection as possible. We take exercises to keep us erect in body. We breathe deeply and drink plenty of water to keep us clean inside. We walk every day to help keep up our health and strength. We are studying, each of us, things that interest us most. And we listen with eagerness to the things that interest others that we may learn what they know. It is all a part of our religion. Only I am ashamed to say that we of North Hammond overlooked some of the tenets of our religion. We were very much like the aunt of whom you speak. We were putting in from twenty to twenty-five years getting ready to die. Think of it? If some one had told me when I was a girl that I should have twenty beautiful years for an education wouldn't I have been thrilled with joy? And yet I was wasting those precious years till we suddenly woke up and set to work."

At Relief Society next day Mrs. Cheevers bore a fervent testimony from the text, "Let your light so shine."

"It has been worth the effort, sisters," she cried joyfully.


"It has been worth the daily, hourly effort. Aside from the joy we have found in the endeavor, it has been worth it all just to have given one woman a true impression of the fruits of the gospel.

"I have been thinking, too, while I have been thanking God on my knees for the little I have learned that makes it possible to converse with the artist guest within my home and enjoy her companionship, how lonely I should have been in heaven among the well informed and truly great if I had made no effort to learn of the good things of this most interesting universe. For in heaven there will be many kindred spirits, men and women of purpose and achievement. I should like to be able to listen intelligently, at least, when I meet them."

After the meeting the women gathered around Mrs. Cheevers, eager to learn if the artist had found the woman she sought as a model for her painting. Beneath the newly awakened craving to be a masterpiece was the longing to find the woman who had satisfied Miss Renshaw the artist's ideal. So many weeks had passed, would she ever find her?

And then two days later, in an out of the way cottage, as simple and unobtrusive as herself, the artist did find her, almost missed her, in fact. And yet every child in the village could have told her where Edith Grey lived. All the girls and boys with their eager ambitions and perplexing problems sought and found her. Lovelorn lassies and blundering knights poured into her ears their troubles and found relief and sympathy. Yet no one would have thought of her as the ideal the artist sought.

"You were at your evening meal," Louise Renshaw ventured, as she noted the prettily appointed table. "There is an extra place."

Edith Grey smiled. "I always hope some one will come in."

And so it came that the woman who had made of herself a symphony in which every instrument of her being contributed to the general harmony and the woman who sought to paint a masterpiece that should visualize that harmony, spoke to each other as soul speaks to soul in great moments and exalted moods.

"And when the trial of my life came and he was laid away," Edith Grey was saying. "I tried to take up my life again. Bruised and bleeding it lay in my hands quivering with pain. What should I do with it? The old joy vision that every girl treasures, almost from babyhood, was gone. It couldn't be for God had interrupted for His own wise purposes. Somehow I must substitute a new vision that I could follow with something of the old zest and enthusiasm."

Edith Grey looked over at the artist friend whose eyes were dim with tears and pressed her hand lovingly.

FRUITS OF ENDEAVOR. 33

"And so I resolved to try to be a beautiful old lady."

"And because," Louise Renshaw added, while the tears coursed down her cheeks, "because I also lost him  not to death but to another  I resolved to paint the most beautiful old lady I have ever met."

"I knew we understood each other," Edith Grey sighed. "Do you realize that we have chosen the hardest things in the world to be and do? There is nothing harder than to be a lovely old lady, unless it is to appreciate the loveliness of old age and portray it sympathetically. When a woman has a husband and children to keep her tender and gentle it is easier, I suppose; but for others there is only one thing and that is to take literally Christ's admonition to love thy neighbor as thyself. I have tried so hard and yet every day I seem farther from my ideal."

"It means," said the artist, "that scorn and hate must never creep into the garden of the soul. Do you remember that wonderful line of Maeterlinck's in 'Mary Magdalene'  'Pity mankind, do not blame them.' That is the flower that must bloom perennially in the heart. Pity and love, not merely toleration but a love big enough and sincere enough to understand all and forgive all."

"It means also," Edith Grey said with hushed voice, "that we never must let the shoes of the soul get run down at the heel. We must live ever a little finer, holding ourselves always to a higher standard in little and big things. Every child must be as our own with its dear, sweet ways that invite caresses and its little faults that must be loved into virtues. Every wayward girl and clumsy boy must appeal to our motherhood. Each aged person, even though the garden of his soul is rank with weeds, must claim our sympathy."

Louise Renshaw gazed wonderingly at her new-found friend. "I cannot understand why you in youth set old age as your goal," she asked.

"A mirror was mercifully held up to me in time," came the response. "I met a beautiful woman of sixty years with snowy hair, rose-leaf complexion and exquisite daintiness. Her voice was music. Her smile was magic. But her words, the perfume of her personality, were bitter and biting. It was as though one gazed deep into the heart of a perfect rose and an adder concealed near its bosom reached out and stung one. She, too, had lost her lover and the canker of disappointed love had fed on her kindliness, her humanity, till only the hollow, worm-eaten core remained. I realized, then, that if I was to be lovely at sixty I must cultivate loveliness at sixteen and every hour thereafter."

"How wonderfully we influence each other," the artist reflected. "There was a difference, however, in our experience. I


met the ideal, a beautiful lady, five years ago when my heart was bitter toward the woman who had taken him from me. I saw this lovely lady and the peace of her soul calmed the tumult in mine. Then I strove to be like her that some day I might paint her and interpret her charm and serenity. It is five years since then and I have striven hard to perfect my art. Now I have sought and found her. Will you come to me and let me try?"

"I," cried Edith Grey tremulously, "why I am unworthy. You cannot mean that I was that woman."

Tears of grateful humility filled her eyes.

"You have found her," Harriet Cheevers declared the moment she saw the artist's face.

"I have long since found several of her," Louise Renshaw answered proudly. "The wonder was to paint a composite picture of all of you women with your renewed ambitions, renewed youth, renewed endeavors and deep happiness. I had not the power to blend so many dear dames in one. But I have found the one who inspired me and in her simple, unassuming way she has consented to pose for me."

"Edith Grey," Harriet Cheevers responded at once, "why did none of us think of her? I could see her lovely serenity reflected in your eyes the moment you spoke of her. She is the flower of our town. The rest of us have had husbands and children and grandchildren to mellow, broaden and deepen us, and to stimulate us to be something of which they might be proud. She from her own sweetness and strength, with God's help, has achieved most and all will realize it."