[Vol5 | January 1918 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Mother Takes Up the New Year's Burden Diana Parrish]
Mother Takes Up the New Year's Burden.

By Diana Parrish.

At the last moment mother was prevented from going to the theatre with father. "Mrs. Wilson has another violent attack and Jessie is down stairs waiting for me to go with her now," she explained to him. Mother was out of breath from climbing the stairs and out of patience with people who had relapses on New Year's Eve.

"But mother, we've counted on this for two weeks. It's one of the best plays of the season and it's New Year's eve and everybody's celebrating. Surely there must be someone with nothing in particular to do who could go to Mrs. Wilson's instead of you," protested father, impatiently.

Mother hesitated a moment. Then she said, "I would love to go, of course, but we mustn't think too much of our own pleasure and forget other people's suffering. You telephone Aunt Margery to go with you, I'm sure she can and I'll change into a house-dress."

Mother began to unfasten her pretty, black lace blouse, new for the occasion. New Year's Eve  a good play  a handsome blouse  instead, Mrs. Wilson.

Arriving at her neighbor's, mother found that it had not been Mrs. Wilson's heart at all, as she had been led to believe, but an attack of gastritis brought on by overeating, in spite of doctor's orders. Mother found Mrs. Wilson doubled up in bed, holding her heart and groaning like the mourners at an Irish wake. Mrs. Wilson loved to groan and during forty-five years of practice had become most expert. Mother tried to soothe her at which show of sympathy she took such encouragement that her groans became shrieks which delighted her own ears and filled her listeners with terror.

"My heart, my poor heart," she wailed. Little Jessie stood by her mother's side frozen with horror. "Who'll take care of my children when I'm g-go-gone?" moaned the stricken lady. "Oh, oh, oh-a-ow!"

Jessie's fear melted a little as a sudden thought struck her. "Perhaps it was them oysters you et, ma," she suggested faintly.

Mrs. Wilson moaned louder. "Or, maybe, the bananas and cream on top of 'em," went on her child stubbornly.

At that Mrs. Wilson gave vent to a frightful yell and rolled across the bed to where the child stood.


"Ain't you ashamed to torture your poor ma when she is suffering so?" she shrieked, making a frenzied lunge at her offspring who dodged it with skill born of much practice.

At the mention of oysters and bananas mother made her own calculations, and after two hours of well applied remedies succeeded in getting relief for the stricken lady and then watched her while she moaned herself softly to sleep.

Is it any wonder then, that when mother dragged herself wearily home at eleven o'clock she was totally disanimated!

"What a sordid thing life is," she reflected. She sank wearily into a chair by the hearth. "So much sickness, so much meanness, so much ugliness. Here it is New Year's Eve, and everything ought to be bright and joyous. Here I am facing another year of this sort of thing. After all is it worth while to try to go on?"

Even the glowing coals of the fire failed to inspirit her. Her feet ached, her back ached and her head fairly throbbed. Mother's mind ran on to other sad details of life. "All my children away, some married, some at school, and some in training camps. Oh, this war, this awful, awful war  and the sufferers over there  where does it all lead to? What will the New Year bring us to?"

Mother could not restrain her tears. She lay back in her chair and wept. Before long she fell asleep from sheer exhaustion.

Now I don't know who it is that helps us when we are discouraged and downhearted. It may be our good angel, it may be the spirits of departed relatives and friends, or it may be just little fairies who are looking after us mortals as we go blundering through this school of life. At any rate, some little kindly sprite came to Mother's assistance at this moment.
