[Vol21 | March 1934 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Leadership Week at Provo]

Leadership Week Leadership Week has proved so valuable that all over the Church thousands turn their thoughts to the B. Y. U. And wish they could avail themselves of the wonderful opportunities the school offers.
Noone can tell how at B. Y. U., Provo far-reaching are the effects of this week of intensive work. New thoughts are planted, new vision is enjoyed by those who attend and they give uplift to others when they return to their homes. Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in May) ZION, THE NEW JERUSALEM 1. The Term Zion. The term "Zion" as it appears in the scriptures is variously applied, chiefly as follows: (a) To Mount Zion, a hill in the city of Jerusalem, and in a less definite way to the city of Jerusalem itself. (b) To the (Moses 7:18-21.) (c) To the people of God, called the "pure in heart." (D. & C. 97:21.) (d) To the entire North American continent. (History of the Church, Vol. 6, pp. 318, 319.) (e) To the location mentioned by Micah from which the law shall go forth in the last days. (Micah 4:2.) The Zion with which this lesson is concerned is the one mentioned by Micah. 2. Scriptural Predictions. The scriptures are replete with predictions concerning the establishment of Zion in latter times.
Micah of old said: "In the last days it shall come to pass, that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and people shall flow unto it. And many nations shall come and say, Come, and let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths; for the law shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem." (Micah 4:1, 2.) Micah's statement thus City of Enoch.
Plainly indicates the existence of two holy cities in the last days, namely, Jerusalem in the land of Judea, and Zion, the location of which he does not mention. 3.
Location of Zion. The Nephite prophets were much more definite concerning the location of Zion, the New Jerusalem. Ether, the last of the Jareditic prophets, plainly foretold that ''a New Jerusalem should be built upon this (the American) land, unto the remnant of the seed of Joseph, for which things there has been a type." (Ether 13:6.) On the occasion of the Master's visit to his people on the American continent, he spoke concerning Zion as follows: "I will establish my people, O house of Israel. And behold, this people will I establish in this land, unto the fulfilling of the covenant which I made with your father Jacob; and it shall be a New Jerusalem. And the powers of heaven shall be in the midst of this people; yea, even I will be in the midst of you." (III Nephi 20:21, 22.) Speaking of the repentant Gentiles, the Master said further: "They shall assist my people, the remnant of Jacob, and also as many of the house of Israel as shall come, that they may build a city, which shall be called the New Jerusalem. And then shall they assist my people that they may be gathered in, who are scattered upon all the face of the land, in unto the New Jerusalem. And then shall the power of heaven come down among them; and I also 176 will be in the midst." (III Nephi 21: 23-25.) 4. Exact Location Revealed. In March of 1831, a few weeks after his first arrival in Kirtland, the Prophet received a revelation that contained the following: "Assemble ye yourselves together ye elders of my church; go forth into the western countries, call upon the inhabitants to repent, and inasmuch as they do repent, build up churches unto me. And with one heart and with one mind, gather up your riches that ye may purchase an inheritance which shall hereafter be appointed unto you. And it small be called the new Jerusalem, a land of peace, a city of refuge, a place of safety for the saints of the Most High God; and the glory of the Lord shall be there, and the terror of the Lord also shall be there, insomuch that the wicked will not come unto it, and it shall be called Zion." (D. & C. 45:64-67.) 5. A month or so later the Prophet himself journeyed from Kirtland to Independence, the last three hundred miles of the distance on foot.
When he reached his destination, tired and footsore, he was evidently not favorably impressed, particularly with the people. He said: "Our reflections were many, coming as we had from a highly cultivated state of society in the east, and standing now upon the confines or western limits of the United States, and looking into the vast wilderness of those that sat in darkness; how natural it was to observe the degradation, leanness of intellect, ferocity, and jealousy of a people that were nearly a century behind the times, and to feel for those who roamed about without the benefit of civilization, refinement, or religion; yea, and exclaim in the language of the Prophets: 'When will the wilderness RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE blossom as the rose?
When will Zion be built up in her glory, and where will Thy temple stand, unto which all nations shall come in the last days?" (History of the Church, Vol. 1, p. 189.) The Prophet records that the Lord did snot keep.
Them waiting long for an answer.
Here it is: "Hearken, O ye elders of my church, saith the Lord your God, who have assembled yourselves together, according to my commandments, in this land, which is the land of Missouri, which is the land which I have appointed and consecrated for the gathering of the saints. Wherefore, this is the land of promise, and the place for the city of Zion. And thus saith the Lord your God, if you will receive wisdom here is wisdom. Behold, the place which is now called Independence is the center place; and a spot for the temple is lying westward, upon a lot which is not far from the court house." (D. & C. 57:1-3.) 6. Immediate Preparations.
With characteristic energy and dispatch, the Prophet proceeded immediately to carry out the instructions of the Lord. He wrote a long letter descriptive of the country now called Zion, for distribution among the saints everywhere; (History of the Church, Vol. 1, pp. 197, 198.) He encouraged the saints to purchase land in the neighborhood; and he appointed brethren to have charge of the proceedings. The Lord cautioned, however: "Let the work of the gathering be not in haste, nor by flight; but let it be done as it shall be counseled by the elders of the church at the conferences, according to the knowledge which they receive from time to time." (D. & C. 58: 56.