[Vol21 | March 1934 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Your Home Luke]
They have been used in nearly all great art periods and they should not be overlooked in present day decoration. To be sure the wall on which they are hung must be a background wall, and too many of them should not be used in the same room.
Only the very wealthy can afford the antique tapestries and embroideries, but there are many fine reproductions. However, caution should be used in buying148 the machine-made tapestries, most of which are so obviously common and cheap looking. Be on the watch for the very fine and unusual. A Chinese embroidery, a length of damask, velvet or brocade, a batik, or hanging of hand-blocked linen, Oriental, Persian, East Indian, Java and Egyptian textiles all adorn the wall in an excellent manner, providing always that they are appropriate in period, color and scale to your room.
Such delightful pieces may also be used for table covers, scarfs, drapes for piano and even for bedspreads.
Peasant weaving and embroidery are very delightful for small homes and informal rooms.
Unless the hanging is of sufficient size to nearly cover the wall so it seems to be a part of it there should be some article of furniture or structural fact with which it may seem to group.
Wall plaques, carvings, flower pockets and plaster bas reliefs are all charming wall decorations when used with discretion and care. TIRRORS are of great decorative usefulness.
They may be used in practically any place a picture can, and it is wise decoration to use them in place of pictures to a large extent, especially in a small house or apartment where the use of mirrors will give a sense of spaciousness, open out your walls and give perspective and depth to your room.
Above the mantel & mirror set in a panel is an especially happy device.
Screens are very decorative and make charming backgrounds, and are of much use in preventing drafts and hiding ugly corners. NE of the most admirable developments in the modern home is the elimination of the innumerable bric-a-brac that formerly cluttered up every available space. Now to a large extent utility goes hand in either side of a center object. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE hand with beauty and the articles that adorn have a definite use and the articles one requires for daily use have a note of beauty. However, one still finds many people who make museums of their rooms in their use of accessories,?cluttered up with "calendars, sea shells, cheap vases, artificial flowers, statuettes, photographs, cushions, souvenirs, dried grass and cattails, tidies and others too numerous to mention, cheap, unbeautiful articles that rob a room of its dignity.
Small articles can, if correctly chosen and displayed play a real part in the decorative scheme. But restraint in their use must be a guiding principle, and until one is very sure of her ability to choose an article for its beauty and artistic value alone it is better to choose for use.
Ornament for the sake of ornament is vulgar, and it is far better to eliminate even to a condition of bareness than to have anything which is not useful or which is not absolutely essential as a decorative note in the general scheme so that the room when finished is a unit, a harmony in color, form, texture and spirit. Bric-a-brac should be placed so that they balance and are in scale, but following this general principle you can use your own instinct in placing them. Don't be a copyist.
They must agree in texture with the articles on which they are placed, e.g. a piece of peasant pottery would not be suitable on a table of fine mahogany.
They must agree also in color.
Pairs of anything give formal balance and dignity if set on Interesting balance may be secured by two unlike articles of the same weight-effect.
Make one article of a group the center of attraction?do not scatter interest too much. For instance, if the over-mantel decoration YOUR HOME BEAUTIFUL is a fine painting then on the mantel have only subordinate articles, nothing that will take attention from the focal point.
Never use draperies or hangings of any sort on the mantel.
Chinese bird cages at a sunny window lend a homelike atmosphere.
Rare porcelains and china, such as Spode, Wedgwood, Spanish Moresque, Chinese powder blue pottery, Gonda ware from Holland, Serves from France, Dresden, etc., and old and new pewter look well in a corner cupboard or cabinet, or set on tables or mantel. A large pottery vase is suitable as an umbrella stand.
Book ends of solid material that will really hold up books, cushions made to be used, single odd and lovely tiles as Maiolica, old and rare glass as Bristol and Venetian, incense burners, small lacquer boxes, workbaskets and flowers (real, never artificial) are some examples of what might be used. The field is unlimited as one can easily see in any department store, decorator's shop or even in the 10 and 15
Cent store. We are limited by our ability to choose the right thing and we cannot always be guided by its expensiveness or by its age, but by its fundamental beauty and agreement with the place it is to occupy. Never buy a number of things which are capable only of collecting dust. And never, for the sake of "sentimental foolishness" use as decoration articles which have been gifts from some loved one, if they have no artistic value. You can store them away, out of sight without in any way affecting your feeling toward the giver. There is an opportunity for fine distinction in the selection and arrangement of bric-abrac. Do not be afraid of plain spaces, however. Overcrowding minimizes the effect of each separate object. 149
Look at your sideboard and mantel, two pitfalls. Are you making an ostentatious display of silver, glass and china on your sideboard? Is your mantel the catchall for baby cups, photographs, and souvenirs? Three good pieces, at most five are all that are necessary, and none at all if they are not good. Concentrate on a few choice things rather than many of a mediocre sort. NOTHING will give that homelike air to a room as much as books. They give a lived-in look suggesting the presence of those who are never lonely. Books in your home give evidence that the inmates come in contact with other minds. Nothing so suggests a home of culture as good books, and books constantly at hand will have an influence in cultivating in children a love of good literature. American homes are lavish in their use of books, suggesting our national ideal, education of the masses. But books have a decorative value as well. They are so companionable we do not to a large extent need to worry about the colors of their bindings and if they are old and worn they may be covered with dark oilcloths and the titles painted along the back. Books should be properly housed. Shelves on either side of the fireplace seem particularly suitable. Book shelves set below a window seat, at one end of the room, and above doors, in an unused door, in wall niches, on either side of a large window, in tall narrow cabinets for narrow spaces, hanging shelves?all are suitable places. The shelves may be painted to match the woodwork and lined with a predominating color in the room. Movable bookshelves now come in many attractive styles to harmonize with your style of dec150 oration..\ few books set between bookends on an occasional table, chest or desk or in a book trough keep current books within easy reach, and with books we must not forget magazines, which add greatly to the comfort of a fireside. It is sometimes a good device to break up a row of books with a fine bit of pottery, copper or pewter or a lovely figurine, or to use the top shelf for a vase or a bowl of ivy. Flowers grouped with books are always good.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
They seem to have a natural affinity for each other. To summarize, then. Do not put too many things in one room, even though lovely, for no amount of individual beauty the objects possess in themselves will permit this mistake. ''Any work of art, regardless of its intrinsic merit must justify its presence in a room by being more valuable than the space it occupies." And judging from this standard we may say that a good book always justifies its presence in the home.
