[Vol21 | March 1934 | Sequence: 35 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature]
Literature (Third Week in May) THE MESSAGE OF A GREAT MASTER THE TEMPEST?SHAKESPEARE "What a piece of work is man. How noble in reason! How infinite in faculties! In form and moving, how express and admirable! In action how like an angel! In apprehension, how like a God! The beauty of the world! The paragon of animals!" ?Hamlet. The desire and struggle for Happiness has brought about Man's highest development.
Through a succession of experiments, mistakes, and penalties he has learned to know the laws of his own being, physical, intellectual, and spiritual, also the great universal laws.
Above the ancient world soared the mysterious import of human life.
Philosophers and priests strove to find an answer to the mystery. The accumulated wisdom of the Greeks offered to Man the philosophy "Know Thyself" for "Man is the measure of all things." The prophetic wisdom of the ancient He180 brews exhorted mankind to "Know God"; later Jesus issued the injunction "Be Ye Perfect," for "You are also His offspring." The master spirits of literature have striven to understand the divinity of man and to find the meaning of life. The Great Problem William Shakespeare, who learned to understand human nature because as a man he felt and thought, rejoiced and suffered, brooded and dreamed, recorded "perhaps the richest and most varied creation from the genius of one man in the history of the world." This "giant of Parnessus' hill, the pride, the monarch of mankind" who has molded the spiritual hues of thinkers, writers, and poets since his day, is still a problem to those who try to read him aright. Matthew Arnold in 'his sonnet on Shakespeare voices the problem: "Thou are free. We ask and ask?Thou smilest and art still, Out-topping knowledge. And thou, who didst the stars and sunbeams know, Self-school'd, self-scann'd,. selfhonor'd, self-secure, Didst tread on earth unguess'd at."
What self-schooling and self-security made Shakespeare the creator of literature that has influenced the intellectual life of the whole civilized world?
This is the great problem. The reader of Shakespeare, who is anxious to understand the human spirit concealed there, declares, "I will not let you go until you have confessed to me the secret of your RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE being." For almost three centuries it was the custom to say, "We know nothing about Shakespeare."
There are today many literary scholars who have sincerely and reverently sought to understand their great master.
Among these reverent scholars the outstanding are: Sir Arthur Quiller-Couch, Edward Dowden, and George Brandes.
Their method was to look at the poet's life work as a whole in order of sequence and to discover, if possible, the life experience that prompted the different creations.
Mystery surrounds the details of the life of William Shakespeare. His early life at Stratford-on-Avon, England, was marked by adversity ?his father's loss of property, the suffering of a debt burdened family, the disgrace of his own public whipping at the command of the lord of the manor, his early marriage at the age of eighteen to a woman eight years his senior. So the young man left Stratford for London to make a name and a fortune. Of the name we shall have much more to say; of the fortune, in little over ten years the debt-burdened father was made a landowner and a gentleman with a coat of arms, while the actor himself became the owner of New Place, the largest manor in Stratford.
Shakespeare arrived in London when the Elizabethan glory was at its brightest.
Religious freedom, political power, cultural aristocracy gave a zest to life. It was the springtide of a great nation's spirit.
Social activities were marked by a splendor and extravagance hitherto unthought of.
Wealthy noblemen became patrons of bands of entertainers for private and public revels. It was to this Bohemian splendor that the young Shakespeare became attached LESSON DEPARTMENT as a member of the Earl of Leicester's company of players.
Shakespeare soon attracted attention through his ability to revise old plays, and by his own personal charm. The complex life of the period contributed much to the poet's growth. In the first period of Shakespeare's dramatic growth, we see the zest for life and love?the conceit of the age being "a man is master of 'nis liberty'"?reflecting the life of youth, life without any serious purpose.
This period of literary beginnings over, the genius of Shakespeare began to assert itself. The first great masterpiece was "A Midsummer Night's Dream," a festival play or masque, a whimsical play of faries and clowns, a triumph of lyric grace. In it we see Shakespeare eager for recognition as a poet, a higher honor than that given to a mere playwright, an honor such as the age had conferred on the great poet Edmund Spencer. The growth of the national spirit of the Elizabethan period reached its climax with the supremacy of England over Spain by the defeat of the Spanish Armada The expression of patriotism by the dramatists took the form of historical plays, the lives of the great kings of England. Shakespeare's voice soared above his contemporaries in patriotic enthusiasm: "This royal throne of kings, this sceptr'd isle, This earth of majesty.
This blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England." The historical plays of Shakespeare were not merely chronological studies, in them we see the elements of weakness and struggle as revealed by the behavior of men given power and 181 authority.
With almost sympathetic touch Shakespeare makes Richard III one of Nature's victims, deformed of body and chaotic of soul. Henry V is a presentation of English patriotism, also Henry V represents Shakespeare's ideal of manhood, heroic and practical.
Looking at the material world of events and things Shakespeare is purely objective, evaluating the qualities of leadership in men?sources of power and weakness, causes of success and failure. The events of Shakespeare's life now led him to be his own Romeo. He abandoned himself to love, the love of a dark lady of the Queen's court, highborn, beautiful, and accomplished.
This love first brought a joyous quickening to his life.
Then he was wronged by his friend. The drama "Romeo and Juliet" and the sonnets are a record of this love, first the beauty of love, and later the bitterness of the realization that passion is not love.
During the period of love's happiness, Shakespeare's brilliance of expression reaches great heights. It seems as if his whole life was bathed in sunshine; then it seems as if the joy of life is suddenly blotted from his being. The laughter of comedy gives way to the gloom of tragedy?
Romeo becomes Hamlet.
From the period of storm and stress Shakespeare emerged as Hamlet: "For wno would bear the whips and scorns of time, The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely, The pangs of despis'd love, the law's delay, The insolence of office, and the spurns That patient merit of the unworthy takes." 182
Penetrating deeply into the facts of life, he saw but darkness?"wordy morality, double-tongued falsity, perpetual hypocrisy." The problem of the relation of good and evil in the world was a mystery, and Shakespeare's thought no less than Hamlet's "beats at the locked door of the mystery." The tragedies followed, "Macbeth," "Othello," "King Lear," "Anthony and Cleopatra,' and the others?dramatizing ambition, jealousy, ingratitude, sensuality as tragic elements in human life. "King Lear" is the most imposing and the most extensive tragedy. It has been called a world tragedy, because it is the tragedy of the ruin of the moral world: "When he who is noble and trustful like Lear is rewarded with ingratitude and hate; when he who is honest and brave like Kent is punished with dishonor; when he who is merciful like Gloucester, taking the suffering and injured under his roof, has the loss of his eyes for 'his reward; when he who is noble and faithful like Edgar must wander about in the semblance of a maniac, with a rag round his loins; when, finally, she who is the living emblem of womanly dignity and filial tenderness towards an old father who has become as it were her child? when she meets her death before his eyes at the hands of assassins!
This is the titanic tragedy of human life." Out of the gloomy sky the sun shone again for Shakespeare. The tragic note ends in the last frenzied shout of indignation in "Timon of Athens," and a new note is struck in the last plays "Pericles," "Cymbeline," "Winter's Tale," and "The Tempest.' There seems to be no evidence to help us to find a direct cause for this change.
This is the last period of Shakespeare's dramatic activity?autumn with its clarity RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of atmosphere and its variety of hues. Shakespeare, master of himself, his emotions and his thoughts, accepts the fact of a moral order in the universe. He now knows of a surety that the divine presence is never absent in the world. In the last dramas we see the new world of the poet, a world of infinities. He saw life with increasing clarity, "the ethical relation of the individual to society and to his environment, the significance of character as a product of the will, and the gradation of qualities in a scale of spiritual values." In this new world we have altruism and reconciliation instead of selfishness and revenge, love is a beautiful thing, and the true freedom of man lies in service. The last plays are the testimony of a great philosophy of life. In the last dramatic work of the master, "The Tempest," Shakespeare became Prospero, a priest, teaching to all the harmony of life.
What then is the reward of the reader who has sought to solve the problem of Shakespeare, who was in turn Romeo, Hamlet, and Prospero? In the words of that great scholar of Shakespeare, Edward Dowden: "Shakespeare does not supply us with a doctrine, with an interpretation, with a revelation.
What he brings to us is this?To each one courage and energy and strength to dedicate himself and his work to that, whatever it be, which life has revealed to him as the best and the highest and the most real."
The Tempest
This drama has been called Shakespeare's "Book of Revelation." It is in reality a poem cast in dramatic form and as such is one of the most beautiful creations in English poetry.
LESSON DEPARTMENT As one reads the fairy-like fable of the poem, there is a haunting sense of a spiritual significance. The play is a wedding play, similar to "The Midsummer' Night's Dream," written for the celebration in honor of the betrothal of the Prince Palatine and the Princess Elizabeth.
There is very little knowledge of any source from which "The Tempest" might have been drawn. It is possible that the legend of the banished Duke and his daughter was derived from an old play by Jacob Ayres of Nurenberg, an adaptation of a Spanish story found in "Winter's Nights" by Antonio Eslava. It has been suggested that the island setting of the drama was suggested by an account of the shipwreck of Sir George Sommers off the Bermudas in 1610. The wrecked sailors of the "Sea Venture" reported the "Isle of Devils" to be an enchanted place with heathen people and mighty tempests. Prospero, the Duke of Milan, became so absorbed in his intellectual life that he entrusted the care of his realm to his brother Antonio. The brother in alliance with the Duke's enemies, Alonzo, King of Naples and his brother Sebastian, succeeded in deposing Prospero. The Duke and his three-year-old daughter, Miranda, were carried out to sea and placed on an old abandoned ship. A loyal friend, Gonzalo, supplied the outcasts with provisions, clothes, and the precious books of Prospero. The ship was driven ashore upon an island with one strange inhabitant, a primitive man, Caliban.
Caliban is a strange creature, the son of a witch, Sycorax. He is a primitive creature, more of an animal than a human being, the essence of grossness. He yields to the kindness of Prospero, but serves always with 183 rebellion. Prospero, soon after his arrival upon the island, releases Ariel, a creature who has been imprisoned in a tree by the witch.
This creature, more a spirit than a human being, with strange ethereal qualities, serves Prospero gladly on the promise of complete freedom in the future. With Ariel and Caliban to do his bidding Prospero lives happily on the island, devoting himself to the enjoyment of nature, the cultivation of his mind, and the education of his daughter.
Twelve years pass happily on the enchanted island before the drama opens. A storm is lashing the shore of the island.
Prospero and Miranda watching the course of the storm see a noble ship wrecked.
Miranda pleads with her father to use his magic powers to allay the waves lest some noble creature be dashed to pieces in the wreck. He does as his daughter requests.
With the advent of strangers to their island world. It is necessary that Miranda should know the story of their banishment, because the storm has brought their enemies to their shores.
Ariel now returns to report that he has done his master's bidding. The enemies are wandering about the island unharmed while Ferdinand, the King's son, has been left alone in an odd angle of the isle.
