[Vol28 | August 1941 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: A Pinch of Dust is a Wright]
When storm's dark wrath sweeps cloud banks down the sky The solar summer ends; the earth subdued Beneath a white jeweled coverlet shall lie In healing rest and through rest be renewed. & A Pinch Of Dust Is A Dollar Martha Robeson Wright ATHER relaxed in the hidebottomed chair and_ sighed with content. "Well, them 'cukes' are all salted.
Apples are packed good so they won't bruise.
Looks like good weather for tomorTow." "T do hope they don't spoil afore you get 'em there," Mother said, her fingers flying as she knit. "Sure Tom'll be enough help to take along? Indians 've been bad up there on the way to the mines so Elly was tellin' me when she passed by here t'other day."
Father was easing off his shoes and wiggling his bare toes. He didn't wear socks until it got cold, and this was only late September. "Don't you worry none, Addie." "But oxen are so slow. You'd never get away from 'em." "Tl figger that out when the time comes.
Indians want horses most— fast ones.
They only bother wagon trains that look like they had plunder. My wagon won't look any too prosperous."
Father took out a black book he always carried with him—a little black notebook that he always kept notes and accounts in for each day. He wet the stub of a pencil with his tongue and then carefully wrote. I knew he was writing down about the apples and cucumbers. I thought about our wagon and the oxen.
They looked wonderful to me. The plodding oxen never seemed to mind the heavy yokes.
Everything was riches compared to what we had had before.
Since we had come to be tenants on Uncle Jeff's farm, life was wonderful. As far back as I could remember there had never been enough to eat, but here on the farm we had everything —even so much we could sell some.
There were two cows and plenty of milk and butter for all.
Father had turned out to be a good farmer even if he had not farmed before.
There were beans, corn, and apple cider made from windfalls; there was vinegar made from beets. 'There were so many apples and cucumbers this year that even when Mother made big crocks of pickles and apple butter and had the roofs all covered with quarters of apples drying, there was still so much left that Father was taking it to the mines to trade. My three sisters were asleep and there was just Mother, Father and me in the room.
Mother would have plenty of company with the girls if I went with Father. But he had not asked me to go with him. He was going to take Cousin Tom. I wanted to go. "T could help as much as Tom and lot's more," I said grumpily. "Tm almost as big as he is, even if I ain't but twelve. Leastwise, I'm as tall."
Father put away the little black book, turned and looked at me. "Jt ain't what you could do, Elizabeth. It just ain't no part of the country for a gitl—specially a purty one." He winked at Mother. "T'm not purty!" I got a bit cross for I liked being strong and husky like a boy and having Father call me his boy. "Red hair an freckles ain't purty," I added sulkily. Page 525 526 "They's some might think so," said Mother, as she turned the toe of the sock she was knitting. "Your hair ain't red exactly," she stopped and knit for a few seconds. "It's more like the color of a new gold piece I saw once."
Then she knit faster and added, "You give up that notion of goin' with your father, Betsy. I need you here." "The girls can do all right," I protested, but I knew it would not do any good to talk any more about it. When Father said, "Elizabeth!" the thing was past arguing. He was going to leave before sunup. I made up my mind that I was going and that I would not be found till it was too late to make me go back. Cousin Tom came in. He was twenty. He was not much taller than I, but he was thick and strong. His hair was as black and straight as an Indian's. "Everything's all fixed, Uncle Ned," he said. "Both barrels so they won't roll?" "Yes, sir. Got the tarpaulin over em."? "Good. Well, guess we'd better get to bed."
Father stretched his arms wide. "Ho-hum."
