[Vol28 | August 1941 | Sequence: 00pb1 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: Relief Float]

Relief Society Pioneer Day Sloat HE Pioneer Day celebration held in Salt Lake City this year was made impressive by a parade in which were entered many beautiful floats interpreting the life, the culture and the accomplishments of the Pioneers. The eleven Salt Lake City stakes joined with the General Board in entering a gorgeous float to represent Relief Society. This float was entitled "Eternal Progress" and depicted the steady climb of the women of the Church toward "'light" and "truth." The body of the float was made of white snow-cloth heavily fringed with blue and white Cellophane. Broad terraces made of white Chryscelo floral sheeting with the graduating sidés in gold Fabricoid lead up to a queenly golden-haired figure representing the "Spirit of Relief Society." This lovely woman was crowned with a goldenglitter crown on which was inscribed in silver-glitter letters the word "light." Held aloft in her hand was a golden torch with a white-glitter flame. The crown and torch symbolized "truth" and "light." On the various terrace levels were stately golden-haired women gowned in flowing white Grecian robes and wearing golden-glitter olive leaf wreaths for headdresses. These women represented various Relief Society activities which advance women on their upward climb. Music was represented by Ruth Jensen Clawson, of Ensign Stake, carrying a lyre; education by Gertrude R. Garff, of Highland Stake, holding a golden book; sewing by Vera J. Giles, of Ensign Stake, carrying a dainty sewing basket; and social welfare by Norma. P. Anderson, of Bonneville Stake, carrying a golden basket of fruit with an abundance of welfare supplies in attractively-wrapped boxes at her feet. Nina O. Edward, of Salt Lake Stake, represented the 'Spirit of Relief Society." The words 'Relief Society'' in raised blue letters were prominently mounted on a background of gold Fabricoid on the nose of the float Other touches of blue here and there on the float were effective and carried out the Relief Society colors—gold and blue. Pauline T. Pingree was chairman of a joint committee of the General Board and Salt Lake City stakes which planned this beautiful float. The Relief Society Magazine Vol. 28° AUGUST, 1941 No. 8