LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING
 
	MINUTES of meeting held in the Salt
Lake Assembly Hall, May 14th, President
M.I. Horne presiding. Sang “O my
Father.” Prayer Sister L. D. Alder
Sang, ‘‘We Thank Thee O God for a
Prophet.” Minutes read and approved.
President Horne explained the reason we
could not have the 14th, Ward it was
being remodeled; was not feeling well
thought it was climbing the stairs at the
County Building, to hear Miss Anthony
and Miss Shaw, she was pleased with them
thought many would not go to sleep under
Miss Shaw’s preaching, they have suffered
for their cause but it is popular now, refered
to the man who voted ‘‘no” on Tuesday
evening, was like Miss Anthony thought
he needed praying for. Wondered how
many really thanked God for a prophet as
we had been singing, all who have lived in
Joseph’s day should testify as long as they
are here, we should be thankful for the
Gospel. The plan of salvation will reach
all, and the baptism for the dead,is not that
a most glorious principle? What mighty,
order and love in the Gospel, when we are
living our religion. How Joseph would re-
joice when he could come out and see those
he loved. Forty-five lawsuits were
brought against him, yet there was nothing
proved against him, he was waited upon by
angels and was upheld by the power of
God. He lived to receive all the keys and
blessing, necessary for the carrying on of
this work; he had to shed his blood for
the cause; when we see the famine and dif-
ferent things that are taking place we should
study what these things mean, look to our 
selves that we are on the straight and nar-
row way, we will need a good shaking to
put us in our places, if we turn aside or go
contrary to the teachings we have received.


[Column 1]
Make the Lord your friend, and He will
never leave or forsake you; live your re-
ligion. A sister whose name was not taken
felt good to be with us, had enjoyed the con-
vention that had just been held, testified to
Joseph being a prophet. Minutes of 18th,
Ward Primary read. A Poem, dedicated
to President G. Q Cannon, was read by a
sister, who stated she had the poem for sale
at ten cents a copy. A sister in the con-
gregation testified to her knowledge that
Joseph was a Prophet, related different in-
stances in his life. 
	Sister Alder was thankful to be here
had been deprived from meeting through
sickness, had enjoyed the late Convention,
the ladies had done a great work in their
lives; but we are doing a great work and we
have a knowledge that our work is a
strength to us, wanted to see a great work
done in the future.
	The visiting ladies asked many peculiar
questions, said that she was surprised to
hear about it, at this late day that they
should believe such things, they did not
seem to see beauties in Bishop Whitney’s
speech; it seems strange that so many that
come among us are blinded to what is tak-
ing place right around them. Women are
coming to the front as they have always
done before the downfall of a nation, we
want to do everything so fast that we can-
not take time to attend to our duties every
day. Is time being shortened or do we
imagine it? We all have to drink deep of
sorrow and in this way the Lord will make
us what He wants us, related how Moses
was taken to the courts of Egypt, and then
bad to be taken to the wilderness: are we
using our influence for good every day of
our lives? Do not be led away by the fol-
lies of the world, it comes in many forms,
and we need to watch and pray continually
that we do right. A sister rejoiced that
she ever heard the Gospel and wanted to
live her religion, had enjoyed the Suffrage
Convention. Another sister had a testi-
mony that this is the work of God, was
thankful that she lived in this day, had
heard the visiting ladies, thought they were
bright and intelligent women.
	Sister Gibson was pleased to hear the
sisters testify. In 1840 Joseph Smith went
to attend a conference and she heard him
there, was convinced that day, had asked her
father’s consent to be baptized, he consented
and she went joyfully forward, when she
saw the saints gatherings she thought the
chance would never come to her,
but the Lord opened the way. Hoped she
would continue faithful, had a good
Patarichal blessing, would like to do all the
good she could.
	Sister Webb felt the spirit of the Lord
was with us here, referred to the Convention
just passed thought the ladies were very
pleasing speakers, but they had not the
Gospel, they were doing a great and good
work, referred to the words of President
Woodruff in Brigham City, that the
reapers had gone forth and many would be
cut down, was pleased to hear Sister Gib-
son’s testimony, gave her a very powerful
blessing. We all want to work in the
Temple, we should not spend all our
strength in worldly affairs, save our
strength for spiritual labors, be charitable
to each other, how much the Lord over-
looks in us.
	Sister M. P. Silver was pleased to be
back again, she knew that the prayers of
her sisters had helped her, knew that faith

[Column 2]
has been exercised, loved to come to meet-
ing, was sorry to be in Manti and not go to
the Temple. We all want suffrage. Sister
Kimball felt the sick needed the prayers of
our sisters, felt better for coming to meet-
ing, had a knowledge that the gifts were in
the church. Sister Hazon felt she would
be condemned if she did not add her testi-
mony to the rest. Hoped she would under-
stand the necessity to live her religion.
	Sister Horne would like to see the sisters
take the Poem from this sister, it was much
better to help people in this way than to
give them charity, the Conference will be in
four weeks, was glad the ladies had enjoyed
the late Convention, thought Miss Anthony,
Miss Shaw and the ladies from Colorado,
had been well treated here; if they will only
speak of us as we are, it is all we ask, be-
lieved they felt well towards us. Never
heard anyone so amusing as the Rev. Anna
Shaw the Prophet Joseph said a woman
should walk on a man's.left side so that,
he had his right hand to defend her. Sang,
“Mid scenes of Confusion.’’ Benediction,
Sister Julia Howe.
	MARY E. IRVINE, Sec. pro tem.


