MRS. MARY L. DICKINSON.
 
	MARY LOWE DICKINSON, the newly-
elected president of the National Council of
of Women of the United States, was born
and educated in New England; she became
a teacher when very young. The experi-
ment of teaching, while most successful,
in so far as the puplis were concerned, only
served to convince the teacher of the
inadequacy of her own preparation for her
chosen field. At the age of 24 she spent
three years in extensive travel and close
study abroad. Returning, the teacher’s life
was resumed until her marriage to John Be
Dickinson, a wealthy banker of New York.
City, changed the life to one of even wider
opportunities for social and philanthropic
work.
	Indentified with the best phases of social,
religious and philanthropic life, she en-
tered actively into many lines of charitable
work.
	Three more years of travel abroad afford-
ed opportunities for study of European sys-
tems of education, and for the acquisition 
of varied culture. The death of her hus-
band, followed in a few years by the loss of
fortune, threw her back again into the
ranks of working women. She resumed
teaching and writing.
	Her first novel, “Among the Thorns,”
proved her skill in the delineation of char-
acter and such powers as established, be-
yond question, the fact of her possessing
the story teller’s gift, while its dealing with
the problem of poverty and pauperism
showed strongly the bent of her mind.
The second book, printed first in England,
and afterwards reprinted in America, called
“The Amber Star,” dealt with fresh air
funds and country homes for children and
working women, before the subject had
ever been discussed or agitated in America.
Her third story, “A Fair Half Dozen,” al-
so first printed in England, dealt with the
problem of invalidism, taking up all the
points afterward covered by the Shut in
Society, before a thought of such a society
had ever crept up to the light. A little
volume of poems called “Edelweiss” was
her earliest book. Some of her stories, in
which she particularly excelled, have been
gathered together in a volume called “Drift
Wood” and “One Little Life,” her latest
story, is illustrative of her own idea of what
should be the true character of the Order 
of the King’s Daughters and Sons, in which 
society, from its birth, she has been the gen-
eral secretary, and actively engaged in the
charge of its work all over the world.
	Warmly interested in the cause of tem-
perance, she served for several years as the
joint editor of the “American Reformer.”
When the Order of the King’s Daughters
and Sons grew to such proportions as to re-
quire an organ of its own she established
its magazine, the “Silver Cross,” of which
she has been the only editor. She was of-
fered positions in several leading institutions
of learning, one of which she accepted the
post of professor of literature at the Uni-
versity of Denver, and at the close of her
service there was made emeritus professor
and given also a lectureship in English,
the chair of belles-lettres, which was liber-
ally endowed and named by the Board of
Trustees the Mary Lowe Dickinson chair.
