GRATITUDE.

	GRATITUDE is the warm and friendly
feeling that prompts the heart, the soul,
and the mind to benefit the benefactor.
	In the strife for fame, and the hustle and
bustle of this busy-world too often do we
nurse recollections of our own fancied
wrongs,and too often do we forget the kind-
nesses on us bestowed.
	Gratitude, the feeling which inspires
the heart with kindly desires to thrice re-
pay a want administered, or a favor confer-
red, is the grandest feeling that fills the
noble heart, and from it springs the golden
seeds of friendship, that subtle-tie that binds
true hearts together. The feeling of grati-
tude when you have been helped,or favored,
will lighten your heart, and brighten your
smiles; so do not falter when you know
what comfort to yourself and your friends
you will impart.
	We as God’s noble children can show
our gratitude to him for all his mercies and
kindness, by living a humble and contrite
life, and doing all the good we can. If we
desire to do good we must begin on the first
step, that is if we wish to do much good in
this world we must be willing to do good in
little things, in little acts of benovelence
one after another; speaking a timely and
good word here, doing an act of kindness
there, and setting a good example always.
We must do the first good thing we can,
and then the next. This is the only way to
accomplish much in one’s life time, and it
is one of the many ways we can show onr
gratitude to God.
In each act of gratitude, nobleness lies;
	The benefactor is repaid with willing grace, 
The act is always grand and never dies,
	But will brighten the true friends face.
	E. M. R.


MRS. ESTHER MORRIS of Wyoming was
one of ten delegates at large elected from
that State to the National Convention of
Republican League Clubs at Cleveland.
Colorado elected four women as delegates,
and New York one.
	MISS ABIGAIL DODGE (Gail Hamilton)
who has been so ill that her death semed
inevitable, is recovering. Her family and
friends are hopeful, and she will soon be
brought from Washington, D. C., to the
cooler air of Maine.—Ex.


