IN RURAL ENGLAND.

XLIV
	Before Clair Hilliard left the colonies for
England he had a long talk with his cousin
Jane in regard to his father, though she
was careful not to reveal anything which
would wound his pride; she was wise and
cautious, as she had always been, to avoid
making others unhappy whatever she her-
self might suffer.
	The colonies were in a perturbed state,
and there were manifest indications of the
indignity towards British rule which sub-
sequently resulted in open war and finally
in the colonies declaring themselves inde-
pendent; the history of the Revolution is
familiar to the American people, and there
is no need to recount instances here, or even
the participation of the characters in this
story in that great struggle, though they
were more or less engaged therein, especially
Rob Harrison who fought valiantly, and
gave liberally of his money as well.
	Clair Hilliard had many regrets in leav-
ing his cousin to whom he was fondly at-
tached, and cried like a child when he bade
the children good-bye. Conway and Ed-
ward both opened their eyes in earnest
when Clair told them he was going to Hil-
liard castle to live alone, and they promised
if only their “mamma” would consent they
would come in a few years when they had
grown bigger and could ride and hunt, for
boy-like they had caught at the stories they
had heard of the sporting seasons in the vi-
cinity of the castle, and which they never
wearied asking about, and repeating over to
each other, and the few playmates with
whom they associated. Besides the Eng-
lish maids, who had come over with them,
told the children of their beautiful England,
until they fancied it must indeed be really a
fairyland. Edward and Anna had been
kept very close with Lady Walton, and
knew even less than Conway, who had en-
joyed greater freedom; but he too was fond
of England in his own quaint fashion,
though he wanted to be loyal to the colonies,
knowing how devoted his mother was to
the wilder scenery of New England.
	Returning across the ocean, Clair had an
eventful voyage and when he arrived he
scarcely knew what to set about, he con-
sulted his solicitors in London, who ad-
vised him to settle down in his own county
and see what prospect there would be for
Parliament, they were ambitious men and
told Clair confidentially who could put him
in possession of the needed information.
“You remember going with young Walton
to Greyson Manor in the hunting season
once and meeting a number of high bred
aristocratics, well, you’re just in time now,
and our advice would be to go and see them.

[Column 2]
Lord Walton is at home and don’t know
how to pass the time, his mother will not
hear of his going on the continent, she is
brooding over her sorrows, broken down
in health, and would possibly consent to
have Maitland go with you; perhaps she
might even be persuaded to go herself,”
“Thank you kindly gentlemen for your ad-
vice, I'll see when I reach home how things
are and talk it over with Maitland and Lady
Walton.”
	Burke replied immediately that "the es-
tate was in good hands, the steward was
prudent and everything going on smoothly,
in fact for the matter of that, the income
was increasing, the outlays almost insig-
nificant.
	After Clair left the barristers’ offices,
Burke and Hemenway talked over the
strange turn things had taken since they
had first entered upon the management of
Sir Edward’s affairs. “Its likely enough,
said Hemenway, he’ll marry one of the
Greyson girls, they’re older, bnt he is more
likely to become attached to a girl whom he
could look up to, and it might be a sensible
match; he’d stop thinking of Italy, and
grow more settled and even ambitious per-
haps, and I should like to see the Hilliard’s
in favor again. I remember hearing a great
deal of Sir Edward’s father, its hard to be-
lieve that such good blood shouldn’t show
up somewhere.”
	“Well, replied Burke, you do recall to
mind the stories I heard when a boy of the
gaiety at Hilliard castle, and to think of
Sir Edward bringing up that beautiful girl
with only French governesses in the house,
why he wasn’t old, not as old as I am by
seven years, well we shall see how this
young fellow will conduct himself, with his
guitar and Italian songs; he’ll make a furore
among the women but ride after the
hounds, never! By Jove, when I remem-
ber how the old Baronet used to jump the
ditches it makes me almost long to leave
London, and go up there and see the fun
again, you know I was born in that district,
and one can’t quite forget the green fields
and out-door sports.”
	“Well, you see Burke I’m a Londoner,
born and bred, and I like all this crowding
and pushing, and living in a whirl of ex-
citement, but I’m interested in the chase,
that is when I read about it in the papers.
I can’t say however, that our young Baro-
net ’ll ever amount to much, only to send
women half crazy, same as his mother did
the men, but we shall see, Walton ’ll do him
no good, he’s run through half his own
money and more, and would his wife’s too
if we hadn’t been after him pretty sharp."
	“Yes, I know, but Clair must have some-
body and where is he to look for society;
Rob Harrison has probably stuffed him
pretty well with ridiculous notions and then
sends him afloat without anybody to look
after him, he’ll be easy influenced, far too
easy I imagine.”
	This and much more the two men talked
over together, and in their own minds
they saw the picture of both Clair and Mait-
land. But “man proposes and God dis-
poses,” and though some things are plain


[Column 1]
to lawyer's minds, they cannot always see
what young men and women will do whose
money they are handling, anymore than
other people.
	Lady Walton was delighted to see Clair,
he came unexpected and unannounced, and
she became quite herself again while he re-
mained, and urged him to spend as much
time as possible at Walton Hall. Maitland
and Clair had always been very good
friends, and it was not long after Clair
reached home before an invitation came
from the Greyson's inviting him for the sea-
son without any solicitation on his part.
Maitland and his mother also received one
about the same time, and the three were
soon installed at Greyson Hall. It was
was one of the most charming localities in
all the rural districts of—Shire and both
the young men gave themselves up to the
pleasures and amusements provided for the
entertainment of the many guests with
which the house was filled; Maitland and Clair
were neither of them very good sportsmen,
Maitland to be sure rode well, but he was
restless and his mother worried him with
her anxiety. The Greyson girls were charm-
ing and exerted themselves to please, they
had been much on the continent, and were
familiar with places and scenes of interest,
and it was but a few days until Clair was
over head and ears in love with the eldest
of the two, and then he began to wonder
what his cousin would think, and indeed
whether the girl would return his affection.
He knew things were in commotion in
America, and so he did not write, but
talked with Lady Walton, who encouraged
him to speak to Mr. Greyson at once. The
mother was dead and a maiden aunt, the
mother's sister was the only lady of the
Manor, except the girls who had almost de-
cided to live in single blessedness, thinking
their time had gone by, though they were
scarcely spinsters yet.
	Lady Walton was much improved and
had been watching these young people and
wishing Maitland would woo and win the
other and younger sister, or some one of the
sweet and attractive girls who came to visit,
or attended the parties they were giving
every few days; she had not long to wait
for almost immediately after Clair's affair
was settled, Maitland confided to his mother
that he had already asked Laura Greyson
to be his wife, that she had consented, that
the children were to be brought home, and
that she would take care of his morals here-
after; all of which Lady Walton accepted,
though it was not a brilliant match, such
as she had once anticipated when he was a
fine boy just fresh from college. There
had been many changes since then and seri-
ous troubles had effected her very materially.
	She had in reality taken somewhat to liter-
ary pursuits, and written some articles and
verses quite pathetic and though she had
only shown them to one or two writers
she had been quite gratified with the favor-
able criticisms of her literary friends. She
had another reason for wishing to leave
Greyson Manor, which she felt now she
could do with due propriety, on the pretext
of making things ready for the future mis-
tress of Walton Hall. Sir Thomas Lons-
dall had come late in the season, and he
knew too much for her sensitive nature, he
was very outspoken aud had once or twice
alluded to her affairs in a way that set her
heart beating, for even now she could not
bear to hear Sir Edward's marriages alluded
to, and still cherished in her heart of hearts,

[Column 2]
a tenderness for her first lover, and she
knew from his own lips on that night of
nights, of which no one living now knew
except Jane (and who had she felt sure
never betrayed the secret) that in reality Sir
Edward had loved her truly, though his
jealousy and hatred knew no bounds; but
he had forgiven her then and indeed found
that she too had been deceived, and that
both lives had been made unhappy, though
she had been a true and faithful wife, over
fond of admiration, a belle in society, while
he had lived wretchedly, at first under des-
perate excitement, afterwards something of
a recluse, shunning all those around him.
	Lady Walton advised Clair to go home as
she feared for him, knowing how he dreaded
any allusion to his mother, and with womanly
intuition she knew Sir Thomas would break
out some day, when he had imbibed too
freely of the wine at dinner which he was
much in the habit of doing. With all her
caution the crisis came. She was ready to
depart, had everything packed when Sir
Thomas in a passion, brought about because
of a joke perpetrated by Clair, called him a
gipsy, whereupon Maitland resenting it,
was told his mother had gone over to Italy
and married a vagabond Count no better
than a gipsy. Mr. Greyson tried to silence
Sir Thomas in vain, the young men left
the dining hall, and almost without cere-
mony bidding hurried adieux to the young
ladies were soon on the way to Walton Hall.
Mr. Greyson was obliged to explain to his
daughters and apologize for Sir Thomas,
whom he promised himself never to invite
again. Miss Fulton, the sister-in-law de-
clared Sir Thomas had been in love with
the Italian singer himself, and never could
forgive Sir Edward for marrying her.
	It was a dismal winding up of a brilliant
season, but the girls had much to think of
in view of the double wedding which was
soon to take place, and before many days all
the guests had taken their departure, and
the wedding trousseaux were in progress.
The arrangements were elaborate and in
the best style of the day and time, and at
Christmas the marriages were to be solom-
ized. Lady Walton had decided not to be
present but as neither the girls nor Clair
had a mother she was finally prevailed
upon to come. There had never been such
a wedding in the neighborhood, the music
and feasting and merry making continued
through the holidays, and in all the coun-
try side both rich and poor were remem-
bered. The Greysons were great favorites
and a double wedding was a novelty.
Lady Walton who was still very beautiful,
notwithstanding all she had endured, and
who always dressed with the most exquisite
taste, was as charming as the young brides,
her stately manner and thorough-bred style
created quite a sensation and she was as
much talked of afterwards as the brides
themselves.
	Meantime the war had begun in earnest
across the water and more than one battle
had been fought; the English were sure of
victory, although Clair had many doubts
and some fears, he longed to know more
than the rumors that were afloat. Maitland
dreaded and feared because of his children,
but he knew cousin Jane would protect
them with her own life if she could; he
had opportunities now and then to send
messages but never knew whether they
were delivered (and of course they were
not.) It was late the following summer
when he started for the colonies to bring

[Column 3]
home his children and he found much dif-
ficulty in reaching his friends though he
carried letters from the officers in command.
He was an English gentleman which was
apparent in his bearing, but nevertheless
he was suspected of being a spy. At last
he succeeded and found all well and ascer-
tained that neither Mr. Harrison or Sydney
Barrington had ever heard of the marriages.
Jane knew the Greyson's and was pleased
to hear the news. She felt Clair would be
better with a wife like Miss Greyson, and
the children she loved so much would have
a capable and affectionate mother. Lady
Walton had always been cold and selfish,
and so absorbed in her own griefs, she had
no room for little children in her heart.
Maitland only remained long enough to
make the needful preparations and Jane
Harrison with a heavy heart bade the chil-
dren good-bye, not knowing what might
transpire before they should meet again.
But she was brave beyond all expectation.


