WOMAN SUPT. OF SCHOOLS.

	MISS ESTELLE REEL, State Superinten-
dent of Public Instruction in Wyoming,
was interviewed for the Chicago Daily
Tribune and is reported as saying:
	The fact that I am a woman did not keep
me from bearing my share of the burdens
of the campaign, financial or otherwise. I
traveled over most of the great State of
Wyoming, which has an area of 97,000
square miles, much of the distance being
covered by stage-coach or wagon. I did
not make any attempts at oratory in my
speeches, and did not try to discuss the
political issues of the day, but confined my
remarks to explaining the duties of the
office for which I was a candidate, and tell-
ing why I thought I could perform them to
satisfaction. I was treated with the great-
est courtesy in all parts of the State, and
by the press, of whatever political faith.
Of course, some of the eastern papers tried
to manufacture a funny side to the cam-


paign, and a paragraph went the rounds to
the effect that I had agreed with my op-
ponent to marry him in the event of his
election and my defeat. As the man al-
ready had a wife, this campaign story did
not carry much weight when it reached
Wyoming. Another story was circulated
to the effect that I secured my large vote—
I had the largest vote of any candidate, by
the way—by having sent my photograph to
every man in the State. The only founda-
tion for this story was the fact that I, in
common with other candidates on the ticket,
sent out considerable campaign literature
bearing our none too flattering pictures.
Widely exaggerated tales of perfumed notes
being sent to cowboys who rode 100 miles
to vote for me, as well as to wave six-
shooters in the faces of those who voted
against me, also went the rounds. Well, to
make a long story short, the battle was
won.”
	“Is there any dissatisfaction in regard to
woman suffrage in Wyoming? was asked.
	‘‘There is not,” was the decisive re-
joinder. ‘‘On the contrary, the institution
seems to give general satisfaction to all
political parties and to both sexes.”


