SILVER.

	Miss Will Allen Dromgoole, the popular
Southern author, gave an address at the
"Capital College" in Atlanta, Ga., a few
days ago, and paid a high tribute to Miss
Anthony, which was warmly applauded.
She said:
	"It is a great thing to be the mother of a
great cause. Years ago there flashed upon
the world a woman; she had no other an-
nouncement than the "wild scheme" she
had mothered. Wherever she went the
hiss, the sneer, the finger of scorn were sure
to follow. Yet she pushed right on; the
implacable enemy of slavery in vanity's
dress; the mother of an unborn cause. To
me she stands majestic among women; to
me she is the grandest picture in the book
of our time; to me, like the prayer of my
childhood, the name of Susan B. Anthony
holds something grandly, solemnly, pa-
thetically, magnificently sacred. Whatever
may have been her blunders, whatever her
faults, still she fought for women. And
since she fought for women, in the name of
womanhood let no woman cast a stone at
her. She is one of those who will never
die; her name will go thundering down the
ages long after you and I are forgotten;
while her cause, the child for which she
sacrificed so much that makes a woman's
life dear to her, will live, and throb, and
thrive, and flourish, long after she has
found a refuge under moss and marble.
And her name shall outwear the marble
that shall cover her great heart; posterity
shall weave for her a crown that old Time
cannot touch. You may refuse her a hear-
ing to-day; deny her the rose and the laurel.
but to-morrow shall avenge her; and al-
ready that to-morrow is dawning; upon the
Western slope where the sun goes down,
already the rose of the new day is reflecting.
Already the world has caught her message;
already the ear of woman is attuned to its
meaning, already the multitudes rise up to
"call her blessed," already upon the
threshold of life stands the new woman, the
creature of her inspiration, knocking for
recognition, And as Moses refused to be


called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, so
this new woman refuses longer to be re-
garded merely as man's amusement, and 
step-daughter to Adam's spare rib."


