BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	THE Conference of the Bear Lake Stake
Relief Society, convened at Bloomington
Meeting House, May 29, 1895, President
Julia P. Lindsay, presiding. Singing,
“Redeemer of Israel.” Prayer by Bishop
Finley. Singing.
	The Stake Secretary then called the offi-
cer’s roll and read the minutes of the pre-
vious conference, which were received.
	Opening remarks were then made by
Sister Lindsay, in which she expressed
pleasure at being enabled to meet with us
in conference. Said she had not visited
the stake this spring, therefore was not able
to report its condition. The following
Relief Society branches were then reported:
Bloomington, St. Charles by Sarah
Cook; Garden City by President Cook;
Round Valley by Counselor Early; Lake
Town by President A. Hodges; Woodruff,
Paris, First ward by Sister Sutton; Paris,
Second ward by President Eschler; Lanark
by President Toomer; Ovid, Liberty by Sis-
ter Morgan; Montpelier by President Ho-
ganson; Bennington by President Vanorman;
George Town by President Fretwell: Ward
Berne by Counselor Keith.
	The statistical reports were then read,
after which, President Lindsay said it had
been a source of great satisfaction to her, to
hear that all the branches reported were in
good condition. She also said that as
Sister E. Collings and herself were getting
old and were not able to take their journey
through their stake as they used to, it was
thought wise for her to select another aid,
accordingly Sister Amelia Hodge was
chosen and unanimously sustained as an
aid to the presidency of the Relief Society
of the Stake.
	Counselor E. Collings then arose and said
notwithstanding her great age and feeble
body she still had a strong desire to perform
every duty devolving upon her as far as she
was able. Endeavored to show the sisters
that they were here for a purpose, and that
they must attend to every known duty or
they would be held accountable for the
same. Laid particular stress on the work
that should be done for the dead; said that

[Column 2]
few indeed realized the importance of this
work. Bore a faithful testimony to the
truth of this work. 
	Sister Fretwell said she had lived in Nau-
voo at the time of the martyrdom of Joseph
and Hyrum Smith; said she knew that
Brigham Young was the legal successor of
the Prophet, for the first time she heard
him speak after the martyrdom, it was
Joseph's and not Brigham’s voice; said this
was a great testimony to her of the divinity
of the work.
	Meeting adjourned by singing, “God is
Love.” Benediction, President Budge.

	At 2 p. m, meeting was called and the
choir sang "Come to me.”
	Prayer by Brother Greenhalgh.
	Singing, “Behold the mountain of the
Lord.”
	During the administration of the sacrament
the choir sang “How great the wisdom of
the Lord.”
	Counselor L. M. Hart spoke at some
length on the improvement in the different
organizations of the Church and of the
necessity of the officers of the organizations
being united in their work.
	Sister Mary Bagley spoke of the many
tasks that we are called upon to perform
from time to time, and the need we have of
the spirit of God to ever be our guide and
companion; spoke also of the advantage of
the young and the many things that would
be required at their hands.
	President William Budge addressed us
for a short time, encouraged the sisters to
continue in the good work, assuring them
that their reward was certain; spoke of the
purity of the women of Zion and the exam-
ple they should set the world in this respect.
Touched on equal suffrage, expressed him-
self as being a strong advocate of the same.
Urged all to live up to their duties, so that
they might have the Spirit of Our Heaven-
ly Father with us continually, invoked the
blessings of God upon us.
	President J. P. Lindsay felt that we had
been well paid for attending meeting.
Thanked the people of Bloomington for
all their kindness during conference.
	Meeting adjourned for six months by
singing an anthem. “Praise Ye the Lord.”
Benediction by Bishop Finley.
