	LETTER TO U.W.P.C.

	Here I am in the wonderful Snake River
Valley with the famous Teton Peaks tower-
ing in the eastern sky white with their
everlasting mantle of snow.
	As I pause in my busy rounds to think
where I am and locate times immutable dial,
I find the month is waning and the date
of our regular meeting is near at hand.
	Inclination, born of an ardent desire,

[Column 2]
bids me hasten home that I may participate
in the pleasures and the benefits of my
favorite club, but duty that relentless mas-
ter calls me elsewhere. I will not take the
time to dwell upon the subject of duty for
our little band is composed of those faithful
ones who learned this lesson long, long ago.
	Since leaving Salt Lake one month ago,
I have visited twenty-seven towns holding
three meetings in each. I have traveled two
hundred and fifty miles by train and nearly
five hundred by team, over hills and dales,
through canyons and mountain gorges,
over the sage brush plains and lava beds,
along shady glens and fragrant meadows;
sometimes the road winding for miles along
the cool, romantic banks of the river fringed
with willows and interspersed with beautiful
wild flowers, and the sweet wild roses that
to my senses are always so inspiring.
Little dainty wild rose with perfume so sweet;
Reminder of youth, and its joys so complete.
When in the green pastures, and cool canyon glens
I plucked thee at random from briary stems.
How I loved to inhale thy fragrance so rare,
And deemed of all flowers, thou the sweetest,
	most fair.
	Though the trip has been attended with
some hardships, the beautiful flowers and
the sweet songs of birds, which can be seen
in great numbers and variety, together with
the sweet companionship of my little Nellie,
has greatly lightened the burden, and
smoothed the rough places. Though in
the language of my little traveling com-
panion, “I never saw so many bumby ups,
mudly pudly’s and tee totters” as in the last
few weeks travel. We have many, ditches,
creeks and canals to ford, sometimes the
water coming into the wagon bed. It being
a new country the bridges are not yet all
constructed though the most dangerous
parts of the Snake River are spanned by im-
mense bridges characteristic of the energy
and enterprise of an industrious, persevering
people.
	This is an extensive valley covering a
vast area of ground. Its water resources
are uncomparable and there is every facility
necessary for becoming a great farming and
agricultural district, and with the brawn
and muscle of the sturdy Mormon pioneers,
who first had faith in its possibilities, there
is no question but their fondest anticipations
will be more than realized. Many of the
little towns are situated along the picturesque
banks of the Snake River, and give great
promise of becoming prosperous business
centers.
	We cannot as yet speak much in praise
of the climate as the seasons are late and
the warm weather cloes not set in until near
the first of July. The wind blows nearly
every day, but how could we expect other-
wise with the vast sweep of land in this
great valley, when the little towns and ham-
lets become large cities with towers and
spires reaching heavenward, and the plains
covered with extensive orchards, then we
may expect a change in climate as we have
found in our own loved Utah.
	I trust all will go smoothly with the club,
and that you will have a most profitable
time at your next meeting and if the last
program is promptly filled, I am convinced
it will be most interesting. I hope the
“committee of the whole” will do their
duty as well for the July meeting—a little
selfishness perhaps—for if all is well, I shall
be there. Praying our Father’s choicest
blessings upon you all, I am your fellow-
worker. ELLIS R. SHIPP.
WILFORD, FREMONT CO., Idaho, June 26, 95


