WAYNE STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference convened at 
the Loa Relief Society Hall, May 30th,
1895. Present were Sisters Susan Grant
from Davis Stake, and Sister Maria W.
Wilcox from Salt Lake City, Stake Counse-
lor H. M. Hansen, Patriarch E. H. Black-
burn and other brethren. Singing, Prayer
offered by Br. E. H. Blackburn. Con-
tinued by singing. President J. S. Cole-
man made opening remarks, was pleased to
have sisters from Salt Lake with us, prayed
God to bless the speakers that we might
have a time of rejoicing. President Susan
Grant of Relief Society of Davis Stake,
said she was pleased to meet with the sisters
in Wayne Stake; as she had been called to
fill that appointment. Thought it was al-
ways encouraging to have sisters from other
localities visit us and talk upon the princi-
ples of the Gospel; “we all have to fit and
qualify ourselves for those things that we
are called upon to perform; we should make
our homes comfortable and desirable, so
that our children will like to stay at home;
teach the children the right path that they


[Column 1]
should walk in; precept is good, but exam-
ple is better; we are a greatly blessed peo-
ple, we have everything to encourage us."
She had enjoyed the privilege of being
acquainted with the prophet Joseph Smith,
knew he was a prophet of God, urged the
sisters to attend their meetings, give in
their donations, assist the bishops, help the
poor, and do all the good they could.
	Loa Relief Society was reported by Presi-
dent Margaret J. Taylor, doing well. Mary
E. Adams reported Teasdale Relief Society in
good condition. Sister Lucinda Brown said
she was pleased to bear her testimony
whenever she had the opportunity, always
enjoyed the labors in the Relief Society, we
should do all the good we can, the sisters
have the same spirit to guide them here
that they do in other places. President
Louisa J. Taylor reported the Fremont Re-
lief Society. Sister Maria W. Wilcox,
president of the Relief Society, 14th Ward,
Salt Lake City, was the next speaker, said
although strangers here we are of one
family, the Relief Society is a great and
glorious work, spoke of the meetings the
sisters had in the temple once a week, there
the minutes of the first meeting of the Re-
lief Society held at Nauvoo had been read
and talked upon; "if we do our duties in
meekness and humility we can be a great
help, it is a time that is spoken of when
the hearts of the children are turned to the
fathers and the hearts of the fathers to the
children, and when we pass behind the vail
it will be a great consolation to know that
we have done a great work for the dead.
Parents should teach their children their
duties, send them to the Primary Associa-
tion and Mutual Improvement. There they
learn things they never forget, urged the
parents to look after the young and rising
generation, asked the peace and blessings of
the Lord upon us.
	Patrairch E. H. Blackburn felt grateful
for the privilege of meeting with the sisters
in conference, and to hear what had been
said; "by sitting on our seats we learn a
great deal, but by getting up and bearing
our testimonies we learn more. We are
only too glad to welcome the sisters from
the north. When there is a Relief Society
Conference we should always try to be
there because there is a great deal to be
learned."
	Counselor H. M. Hansen was pleased to
give the sisters a word of encouragement
whenever he could. Said the Relief Society
throughout this Stake has been a relief in
very deed, spoke of the great help they
were to bishops, etc.
	Elder Joseph Eckerley said he regarded
the Relief Society as one of the greatest
helps in the Church, there never was an
age when people were more accomplished
than they are today, women are raised up
to be helpmeets and counselors to men.
The Lord knew the sisters were more capa-
ble of relieving the poor than the brethren
were, and therefore women have been
organized in this Church into societies.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsyth said she had
been edified by what she had heard, and
made other encouraging remarks. Meeting
adjourned till 2 p. m. Singing, "Do what
is right," etc. Benediction by Elder H.
M. Hansen.
	Afternoon session met in the Loa Meeting
House. After opening exercises Sister M.
W. Wilcox was the first speaker, said she
always had a testimony to bear to the truth
of the Gospel; the principle of faith should

[Column 2]
be exercised; "the Church and kingdom of
God has been established upon the earth
for the living and the dead, the Gospel has
brought us everything that we are in pos-
session of, we cannot become perfect at
once, but grow in knowledge from time to
time. Our work in the Relief Society is
endless, we cannot do too much good. The
sisters should cultivate the spirit of prayer
and wisdom.
	Thurber Relief Society was reported by
President Sarah Meeks, Lyman by Presi-
dent Helen Maxfield. Sister Margaret Pace
made remarks which were timely. Sister
Coombs represented the Aldrich Relief
Society.
	Sister Susan Grant then addressed the
conference. Said she had a testimony to
bear of the truth, she knew the Lord lived
and heard our prayers, was always glad to
meet with the saints. We are all working
for the same end, we should be prayerful
so we will not grow indifferent; always
endeavor to do a work for our kindred dead,
raise our families so they will have a desire
to go to the Temple to be married; parents
should raise their children pure and noble,
our children are all we can take with us
here after, it is our duty to obey the good
counsel we hear from time to time; it is
always a help to the sisters to have the
brethren meet with them, asked the Lord
to bless the sisters of the Wayne Stake.
	President J. S. Coleman said she had
been highly edified with the remarks made
by the sisters and appreciated their visit,
spoke of the minutes of the meeting at
Nauvoo, published in the EXPONENT. The
Relief Society is not only to relieve the
poor, but to save souls. We should be
thankful that our spirits have been reserved
till this the last dispensation.
	Stake President W. E. Robison encour-
aged the sisters to go on in their good work,
said the brethren should come to meetings
and see what great good the sisters are do-
ing, exhorted the sisters to observe the
Word of Wisdom, gave other good instruc-
tions, related a revelation given to President
Taylor, appreciated the visit of the sisters,
spoke highly of the Relief Society in Wayne
Stake.
	President Coleman made closing remarks.
Singing, "When shall we all meet again,"
conference adjourned for six months.
	Benediction by J. T. Lazenby.
