POLITICAL SCIENCE STUDY.

	THE Department of Study in Political
Science has prepared the plan of work so
much talked of heretofore and will fill orders
for the local associations or clubs who wish
to take up the study.
	AIM OF THE DEPARTMENT.
‘‘The object of this department is to pro-
vide a systematic Course of self-instruction
in the principles and facts which underlie
the great Political Questions of our day *  *
A knowledge of history has long been es-
teemed a necessary part of education but a
calm, serious study of politics, the science
which includes the events and conditions
surrounding our every day life is far more
rare.”
	This and a great deal more the Prospectus
sets forth, aud it is with the idea of educa-
ting the women of the country in Political
Science that this plan of work has been pre-
pared.
	DUES.
	Study classes that are formed will be ex-
pected to pay the same State and National
dues as regular suffrage associations, that
is the amount must be enough to retain in
the State Treasury and ten cents to the Na-
tional treasury. This sum is used to
carry on the general work.
	METHODS OF STUDY. 
	The methods should include in the
subjects. General Political News, Con-
gressional News, Legislative News, State
Judicial News, Local Affairs, Social Prob-
lems, The Tariff, Financial News, Labor
News, Foreign News.
	The following topics are suggested for
public meetings. The Duty of the Citizen,
Ideal Municipal Government, The Town
meeting, Initiative and Referendum, Pro-
portional Representation, Universal Suffrage,
Woman Suffrage, how can Patriotism be
taught in the Public Schools.
	‘‘This course of study is prepared as nearly
as possible to meet the demands of all
classes of persons, busy housewives and
women who can only command scattered
moments for reading, women too who have
leisure, college graduates and those whose
ambition is broader, it has been planned to
meet all these differing conditions as nearly
as possible."
	The design of the N.A.W.S.A. is to
make this course of study entirely non-
partisan and all text books will be selected
with reference to maintaining such impar-
tiality.


As President of the Utah W. S. A., we
recommend this course of study to the or-
ganizations in all the various localities, and
believe it will be the most educational in
political matters of any method which has
ever yet been adopted.


[Column 1]
A TRIBUTE OF LOVE.
	An ovation was accorded to Sister Mary
A. Freeze, President of the Y. L. N. M.
I. A., of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion on
the evening of Tuesday, June 18. It is
useless to attempt a description of the floral
decorations but they were beautiful as a
summer dream, yet not so charming as the
young girls and women themselves, attired
in white, or in colors, they rose one after
another to give expression in sentiments of
love, appreciation and admiration to the one
in whose honor they had assembled. As
for Sister Freeze herself, she was literally
buried in flowers, each one of the Presidents
of the branches of the Association in this
stake, throwing her a bouquet of roses im-
mediately after she was seated; entirely un-
conscious of the nature of the gathering it
was a wonder she bore all this adulation
without breaking down. Sisters Nellie C.
Taylor and Maggie C. Shipp conducted the
the exercises in the most graceful and dig-
nified manner, and to them doubtless as-
sisted by willing helpers of the Associa-
tion the success of the entertainment is due.
	The First Presidency was represented by
President Jos. F. Smith, the Apostles by
President Lorenzo Snow, F. M. Lyman
and Abraham H. Cannon, the Presidency of
this Stake by Counselors Jos. E. Taylor
and C. W. Penrose. The Relief Society by
Zina D. H Young and Bathsheba W.
Smith and others, the general officers of the
Y. L. N. M. I. A. by Elmina S. Taylor
and her Counselors Maria Y. Dougall,
Marth H. Tingey.
	The hall was crowded with friends of
Sister Freeze and members of the Y. L.
N. M. I. A. the occasion was one of great
interest and appreciation of the labors of
the Association in this Stake of Zion. The
hymns that were sung were composed by
Sister Mary A. Freeze, and Sister Carrie S.
Thomas; one of the particular features of
the occasion was the presentation of a testi-
monial from the young ladies of the County
Associations of a large picture, handsomely
framed of President Mary A Freeze and
her Counselors and Aids, which must have
been very acceptable as they are the helps
who assist in the progress of the work
spiritual, mental and moral which is being
done for the youth of Zion. Sister Mary
P. Young one of the Counselors presented
the picture in a fitting and eloquent address,
and Sister Freeze responded in the most
happy and grateful manner.
	The first speaker of the evening was Presi-
dent Joseph F. Smith, who in the course of
his remarks waxed eloquent and incisive
on the subject of equal suffrage, and illus-
trated his views by the story of his own
mother, who when a widow with a large
family dependent upon her, journeyed from
Nauvoo, (after the martyrdom of her hus-
band) under the most difficult circumstances
and when the call came to start to the val-
ley, left Winter Quarters in 1847 following
the pioneers, attending to her own teams
and wagons, looking after the entire outfit,
and accomplishing what very few men

[Column 2]
could have done; established herself here in
the desert, built her own house, and superin-
tended all the details of farming and caring
for stock, etc., in a new country where all was
very laborious, and many difficulties and
hardships to be encountered. He made
many excellent points for suffrage and it is
hard to believe that one could listen to so
vivid a picture without being convinced of
woman’s capabilities for citizenship.
	President Lorenzo Snow, Apostles F. M.
Lyman and Abraham H. Cannon, Elder B.
H. Roberts, Zina D. H. Young and Elmina
S. Taylor each occupied a few minutes ex-
pressing love and admiration for Sister
Freeze and appreciation of her labors among
the young people.
	Delicious refreshments were served and
social conversation indulged in, greetings,
congratulations and hand-shakings all
around and the entertainment was closed
with singing and a benediction pronounced
by Bishop Robert Morris of the 11th Ward
where Sister Freeze resides. Altogether
the entertainment must have been very sat-
isfactory to Sister Freeze, and great credit
is due those who had the arrangement of
the entire affair in their hands.


