FLOWERS.

	POETRY is the beauty of ideas—distinct
from the beauty of things.
	CONVERSATION enriches the understand-
ing, but solitude is the school of genius,
	MODESTY is to merit as shades to figures
in a picture, giving it strength and beauty.
	TALENT, like beauty, to be admired,
must be unostentatious.
	HE is happiest, be he king or peasant,
who finds peace in his home.
	GOOD temper is like a sunny day, shed-
ding brightness on everything.
	LET no one overload you with favors;
you will find it an insufferable burden.
	MOST of the shadows that cross our path
through life are caused by standing in our 
own light.
	HAPPINESS is often at our side, and we
pass her by. Misfortune is afar off and we
rush to meet her.
	SINCERITY is speaking as we think, be-
lieving as we pretend, acting as we profess,
performing as we promise, and being as we
appear to be.
	ART rejoices in her own labours, because
the energetic mind requires exercise; and
such works are the reflections of its
thoughts, its capabilities, and its virtues.
	As storm following storm, and wave suc-
ceeding wave, give additional hardness to
the shell that encloses the pearl, so do the
storms and waves of life add force to charac-
ter.
	CHARITY and fine dressing are things
very different; but if men give alms for
the same reasons that others dress fine,
only to be seen and be admired, charity is
then but like the vanity of fine clothes.
	KNOWLEDGE will not be acquired with-
out pains and application. It is troublesome,
and like deep digging for pure waters; but
when once you come to the spring, they rise
up and meet you.
	VIRTUE has this happiness—that she can
subsist on herself. And knows how to ex-
ist without admirers, partizans, and protec-
tors; want of assistance and approbation
does not only affect her, but preserves,
purifies and renders her more pefect.
	NEVER lose an opportunity of seeing
anything that is beautiful. Beauty is God's
handwriting, a wayside sacrament; welcome
it in every fair face, every fair sky, every
fair flower, and thank Him for it, the foun-
tain of loveliness, and drink it in, simply
and earnestly, with your eyes. It is a
charmed draught, a cup of blessing.
	THE TRAGIC IDEAL.—The poet can no
more write without having suffered and
thought, than the bird can fly in an exhaust-
ed air-pump. He must learn the chords of
the everlasting harp, before he can draw
sweet music from it. But he cannot play
while he is learning—he cannot write when
he is suffering—he cannot sing when his
heart is bleeding. If he attempts it he will
utter but incoherent sobs. He must wait
till that suffering has passed into memory.
There it will work, fortifying the soul with
its examples, not tearing it with thorns.
He must wait until memory has become
spiritualized, by losing every portion of
the sensuous pain, before he can transmute
it into poetry.


IT is the policy of a good old father to
make his children feel that home is the hap-
piest place in the world; and we value
this delicious home-feeling as one of the
choicest gifts a parent can bestow.

	A CANARY bird belonging to Mrs. Jona-
than J. Hill, of Northwood, recently escaped
from its cage, and flew out of doors. At-
tempes were made immediately to recap-
ture it, but it flew out of sight, and was
finally given up as lost. About three days
after, the house cat brought the bird in, and
laid it at the feet of its mistress, safe and
sound.

	READING.—Of all the amusements that
can possibly be imagined for a working
man, after daily toils, or in the intervals,
there is nothing like reading a newspaper
or a book. It calls for no bodily exertion,
of which already he has had enough, per,
haps too much. It relieves his home of
dullness and sameness. Nay, it accompa-
nies him to his next day's work, and gives
him something to think of besides the me-
chanical drudgery of his every day occupa-
tion; something he can enjoy while absent,
and look forward to with much pleasure.


