LITTLE FOLKS.

	"WON'T you cut open a penny for me,
father?" said a little girl when she came
home from school one day. "Cut open a
penny! What do you want me to do that
for?" asked her father. "Cause," said the
little girl, "our teacher says that in every
penny there are four farthings, and I want
to see them."
	UPON being promised a penny by his
mother if he would take a dose of caster-
oil, a bad little boy obtained the money, and
then told his parent that she might "casther oil" into the street. He will make a
humorous newspaper paragraphist one of
these days.
	"COME my little fellow," said a Washing-
ton gentleman to a youngster of 5 years,
while sitting in a parlor where a large com-
pany were assembled, "do you know me?"
"Yeth, thir?" "Who am I? Let me here?"
"You ith the man who kithed mamma
when papa was in New York." Correct.
	SAID a distinguished politician to his son.
"Look on me! I began as an Alderman, and
here I am at the top of the tree; and what
is my reward? Why, when I die, my son
will be the greatest rascal in the city." To
this the young hopeful replied:—"Yes, dad
when you die—but not till then."
	A LITTLE fellow who was at a neighbor's
house about noon the other day watched
the preparations for dinner with a great deal
of interest, but when asked to stay and eat
something, he promptly refused. "Why,
yes, Johnny, you'd better stay," said the
lady, "why can't you?" "Well, cause,"
said the little fellow, "ma said I mustn't un-
less you asked me three times." They in-
vited him twice more right off.
	NOT CATCHING.—A lady schoolteacher in
a town in California, having an inordinate
dread of the small-pox, sent home a little
girl because she said her mother was sick
and had marks on her face. The next day
the girl appeared at the school-house with
her finger in her mouth, and her little bon-
net swinging by the strings, and said to
the teacher: "Miss——, we've got a leetle
baby at our house, and mother told me to
tell you 'it isn't catchin'.'" The teacher
said she was glad, and told her pupil to
take her seat.
	PAPA will soon be here, said mamma, to her
three year old boy, "what can Georgy do to
welcome him?" and the mother glanced at
the child's playthings, which lay scattered
in wild confusion on the carpet. "Make the
room neat," replied the bright little one,
understanding the look, and at once begin-
ning to gather his toys into a basket.
"What more can we do to welcome papa?"
asked mamma, when nothing was wanting
to the neatness of the room. "Be happy to
him when he comes!" cried the dear little
fellow, jumping up and down with eager-
ness, as he watched at the window for his
father's coming. Now—as all the diction-
ary makers will testify—it is very hard to
give good definitions; but did not little
Georgy give the very substance of a wel-
come?—"Be happy to him when he comes."


A FRENCHMAN stepped into a store the
other day; and asked to see some shoes.
The affable salesman succeeded in finding a
pair to suit his customer's fancy, and the
Frenchman asked the important question,
viz, the price he was expected to pay.
	"I can let you have these for six dollars;
they are the last of the lot."


"Seex dollar!" exclaimed the Frenchman,
"You meestake me, sare. I do not veesh to
purchase ze whole estableeshmong. Vat is
ze price of zis pair?"
	"Couldn't sell them for less than six dol-
lars; and for such a well-made pair of shoes,
I can assure you they are cheap."
	"Sheep! you call zem sheep? Vy, zat is
vare strange. Zey vessel I came to Ameri-
ca in zey call zat a sheep; ze animal wiz ze
wool on his back zey call sheep, and now
you call ze shoes sheep. Oh, I shall nevare,
nevare comprehend ze Engleesh language."
Yankee Dick.


[Column 1]
			AT TEASDEL'S
	On and after December 1st I willsell all Raisins and
Currant and Christmas Fruits, cleaned and prepared
[---] giving a benefit to those wishing to prepare their
Mince Meat for Christmas. A full Supply of Presents for
Christmas and New Year in useful and substantial items.
	Dried Apples, to the many inquiries: I will take more
good, sound Fruit,
		S.P. TEASDEL, Eagle House.

[Line]

