HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Apple Float.—One pint of stewed apples; when
cold, sweeten and flavor to taste. Just as you
want to send to table add the beaten whites of four
eggs, lightly stirred into it.
	Quick-Baked Batter Pudding.—One pint of
milk, four tablespoonfuls of flour, or better, two of
flour and two of corn starch; two eggs, juice of a
lemon. Bake on a tin plate, in hot oven, twenty
minutes.
	Indian Pudding.—Boil a quart of milk and stir
in four tablespoonfuls of Indian meal and four of
grated bread or crackers, three tablespoonfuls of
sugar, four eggs, a piece of butter as large as a
walnut, and a little salt. Bake it three hours.
	Lemon Pie.—Three eggs (save the whites of
two), juice and peel of one lemon, one cup of boil-
ing water, one tablespoonful of corn flour, one cup
of sugar. Grate the lemon and pour the boiling
water over the juice and peel; beat the eggs with
the corn flour and add to the boiling water; let it
cool before adding the sugar. Beat the whites of
the eggs with one tablespoonful of sugar, and
spread on the top of the pie.
	Breakfast Muffins.—This recipe will be valued
by housekeepers as a dainty substitute for bread
at breakfast or tea:—Two eggs well beaten, with
a cupful of sugar and a lump of butter the size of
an egg; to this add one pint of milk, with a tea-
spoonful of soda, one quart of flour and two table-
spoonfuls of cream tartar, bake in muffin rings on
top of the range, or in gem pans in a quick oven.
	Good Recipe for Doughnuts.—Take three eggs;
beat well: have your pot on the fire and your lard
all melted ready to fry the nuts. Take three ta-
blespoonfuls of the melted lard, two heaping cups
of sugar, rolled; sift about three pints of flour,
put it in the bread bowl, make a round place in
the middle of the flour to hold your eggs; when
they are beaten, pour them into the flour; now the
sugar, then the melted lard, now a half teacup of
sour cream or buttermilk, into which put one heap-
ing teaspoonful of soda; beat up the milk and soda
till it foams; pour that among all the rest; now
put in ground cinnamon to suit, or any other spice
you like best. And now the secret comes. If
you want them good, don't mix quick, but take
your time, work and squeeze the eggs; lard, sugar,
&c., backward and forward through the fingers
until it will be stiff and make dough in spite of
you. When you fry, try and keep the grease at a
regular heat, and not too hot, but fry quickly.
Make the dough about as stiff as biscuit dough.
	To Preserve the Juices of Mince Pies wile
Baking.—When the pies are ready to bake, pre-
pare a thin piece of cotton cloth, one inch wide
and long enough to reach around the rim of the
pie. Wet the cloth and put it around the pie in
such a way that it will lap a little on the plate be-
neat and a little on the crust above, covering the
part where the upper and lower crust come to-
gether.


