WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A LITTLE CHAT ABOUT CHRISTMAS.
	As I sit thinking about Christmas, in my
mind's eye I conjure up a fanciful picture of
the past. I wonder whether any of our kind
readers would like to know how we spent
Christmas in the "long ago." I can see before
me an old rambling brown country house and
it is running over, full of little children, all ages
from the tall young lady and over-grown boy
down to infancy. In all the "living rooms"
the walls and pictures are ornamented with
the evergreens, pines and hemlock boughs
with which New England abounds: the scarlet
berries in thick clusters upon the vines and the
tiny white-pink blossoms of the lily of the val-
ley.  The house resounds with merry laughter
and shouts of glee, and from garret to cellar, in
every nook and corner, the little children hide
and cluster, as they romp and frolic in their
wild delight; playing at "blindman's buff,"
"hide and seek," and those old-fashioned
games which seemed so particularly adapted to
the cultivation of physical development and
animal spirits. Presents, neither costly or ele-
gant, perhaps, but precious indeed from the as-
sociations of friendship; and affection, and ap-
preciated with warm-hearted enthusiasm. I
can see, O so plainly, the window-panes all
crystalized over, and remember how I used to
imagine cities, palaces, and castles, and associ-
ate them with fairy tales; and outside the snow
lay so deep the roads must needs be broken
with big heavy sleds and ever so many yoke of
cattle and then the merry bells would jingle
all day long as the sleighs flew past. I will not
tell you of the delicious plum puddings and
roasted turkeys, for you will soon have them in
reality, nor the full stockings we found by our
little beds in the cold frosty mornings, but I
will tell you of the bright sunshine in our
hearts, of the gladness of the happy childhood,
of the greetings of dear friends, cousins, and
all the long list of relatives gathered around
the hearth-stone at night, by the blazing fire
of pine knots, and singing old-fashioned songs
and telling wonderful tales, to please and

[Column 2]
amuse the little folks, who were never tired or
sleepy, while they might be allowed this ex-
citing pastime.
	If it were not too sorrowful, I could tell you
of a Christmas when there were no presents,
no sunshine in the heart, when all was so chil-
lingly lonely, that even, though the day was
bright outside, and nature sparkling in her
richest robes of jeweled splendor, the tears
fell and blinded us from seeing it, when the
little ones looked in our faces and wondered
what ailed us, and we could not choke down
the sobs of anguish that rose up and almost
stifled us. But my kind readers if you know
where there is sorrow, or poverty or loneliness,
if you know of a widow or little orphans, re-
member them on this coming Christmas, and
God will remember you, and bless you, and it
will be fulfiling the dear Savior's words to
whom this day is consecrated.
	Do not let it annoy you, if your gifts are not
rich or costly but have a sweet smile, and a
bright face, and a merry Christmas for every-
body, and your hearts will be light, and you
will be happy in imparting happiness to others.
Many, very many are the pleasant pictures of
the past which present themseves to us as we
look back, and a happy childhood is one of
the fond recollections ever associated through
life with feelings of tenderness and gratitude.
	There is something about home, that touches
the stoutest heart, the most hardened repro-
bate. And those who have a pleasant home,
kind parents, loving friends and plenty, should
never forget to thank God for all these precious
gifts of His goodness.  How often in the years
to come, will these sweet reminders of hap-
py childhood, flashes of vivid recollection,
bring to us glad thoughts and for the moment
we may almost feel again the brightness of
the glorious past. God is pleased with us when
we appreciate our blessings, we should never
forget how tenderly He cares for us, and that
all the precious blessings of our lives are dis-
pensed from His bounty.
	I love to see happy children, I love to see
happy men and women, happy in doing right.
And that we may, all of us, not only have a
merry but a happy Christmas, is the real wish
of,	AUNT EM.
	S. L City, Dec. 9th 1875.


