		NOVEL READING.

	A great deal has been said and a great
deal more might be said on this subject; in
my opinion it is one of the many evils that
lead the young astray; for when they begin
to read novels it is hard to give them up,
they get their minds so wrapped up in them
that they think and speak of nothing else.
	A lady told me she had a sister who when
she read a novel could talk of nothing else
for about three weeks afterwards; if you
asked her a question she would half answer
and then say something about the novel she
had read. I used to be a great novel read-
er but they never did me any good; I was
told so many a time, but still I kept on un-
til I joined the Retrenchment Association,
about a year ago, and since then I have not
read any novels. I have read the church
works and instead of storing my mind with
romantic imaginations I am seeking to store
it with knowledge that will not only do me
good in this world, but also in the world to
come. I once heard of a man who took a
journal for three years and when he was
counseled to give it up he would say wait
till this story is finished, but when he got
the number with the end of the story there
was the beginning of another in it, and so
he would begin that one, and so on until he
had three year's numbers; he then formed
a resolution that he would stop them; but
says he, "if I give them away they will do
some other person as much harm as they
have done me, so I will burn them." And
he took and piled them up and set fire to
them, and he said it was as good a days
work as he had done for years; and I think
so too; we should follow his axample; if we 
read novels let us stop them and if we have
any books that we know will not do us, or
any one else any good, but if we read them
fill our minds with wrong ideas let us burn
them and then they can't do us any harm.
I think that we RETRENCHMENT girls should
show to the world that we desire true in-
telligence; and we can't become intelligent
unless we read useful books.
	In selecting reading matter, something
should be chosen that will be beneficial to us
in some way; something that will serve to
enlighten and enliven the powers of intel-
lect; not always the same subjects but a di-
versity of interesting and instructive
themes. And in reading simple anecdotes,
we sometimes hit upon a little dint of in-
spiration, which will lay the foundation for
great and sublime reflections and cause us to
develop ideas that may be given to the
world in glowing richness and beautiful
originality. That we may have strength to
conquer all our weaknesses and live pure


and upright before God, that we may gain a
celestial reward is my prayer in the name
of Jesus.
					SARAH McKEAN
	Salt Lake City, Nov. 29th 1875.


