MISCELLANEOUS.

	"YOU haven't opened your mouth during
the whole session," said an M. P., to a fel-
low member. "Oh, yes, I have," was the
reply; "I yawned thtough the whole of
your speech."
	A LITTLE girl in Mt. Vernon street cut
her finger a few days since and the fond
mother ordered John to run qnickly to
Charles street and bring a doctor. "If one
ain't in," were the orders, "leave word and
go to the next." John obeyed orders, and
twenty-one doctors called in course of an
hour.—Boston Journal.
	IT is a most painful spectacle in families
where the mother is the drudge, to see the
daughters elegantly dressed, reclining at
their ease, with their drawing, their music,
their fancy work, and their reading—beguil-
ing themselves to the lapse of hours, days
and weeks, and never dreaming of their
responsibilities.
	A DETROIT man, who was greatly an-
noyed because his wife was not better post-
ed in history, procured one and asked her
to study it. She complied, and when he
came home to supper he found her reading
away, hair down, slippers on, all the fires
out but one, and no supper. She said she
was not sick, knew nothing about his sup-
per, but she added, as she settled back in
her chair, "I can tell you all about the first
discovery of Florida as straight as a string!"
	IN a Tremont street car the other after-
noon—the Boston "Globe" tells the story—
the seats on one side were well filled, on the
other seven ladies were seated, and, pin-
backs to the contrary notwithstanding, they
contrived to spread over the entire space.
Presently, a tired, pale and feeble-looking
woman entered, and, the ladies glancing at
her, settled back and let her stand. The
only gentleman in the car, one of Boston's
best known authors, moved by righteous
indignation, rose and said; "Ladies, how
can you expect any gentleman to give you
seats in a car when you treat one of your
own sex with such unfeeling cruelty?" Then
turning to the poor woman he said: "Mad-
am, my seat is at your service," and left
the car in thorough disgust.


