      FROM AN OLD ENGLISH PAPER.

	From thirty downwards (would it could
be reckoned the other way!), men calculate
in proportion to the force of their attain-
ment. They imagine probabilities of fail-
ure, which never rise in a young man's
brain. He proceeds, as it were, by instinct,
and every step he takes is rather the effect
of accident than design. But they deliber-
ate on each detail. They weigh their words.
They watch for opportunities. And it is
thus that so many young women are attract-
ed and caught, they not how or why, and,
to the great wonderment of shallow observ-
ers, by suiters discrepant in various ways,
beside the mere disparity of years. Andto the lover who thus enters into the daring
adventure with all the odds against him,
what are his chances, what the compensa-
tion? The impetuous burst of boyish fancy
is incomparably less interesting than the
delicate, yet manly, march of matured pass-
ion. Whoever has felt the first, may be al-
lowed to image the latter—to picture to
himself the full-grown mind, with reason,
taste, and sentiment united, choosing its ob-
ject and firmly careering on its way; each
day growing bolder and tenderer, but not
less wise; bringing but the development of
the heart it would make its own; fostering
its timid virtues, yielding to its young cap-
rices, training its tendril fancies, losing
gradually all separate identity to their clus-
tering foliage; till at length the parent stem
and the encircling parasite becomes as one,
nourished by the same sap, and mutually
supporting and embellishing each other in
undivided sympathy. Such is the progress
of a successful passion between beings of
unequal ages, but of similar natures, unde-


faced by violent disputes, and those odious
reconciliations, every one of which steal
something from love's original stock. And
if failure meets the man of mature age who
ventures on the conquest of a young beauty,
it comes without disgrace, for he rarely haz-
ards, by a too rapid advance, the chance of a
too violent check. He looks out for sym-
toms, and is not so blinded but he can pre-
ceive the breakers which warn him of the
rocks. Hence, when he fails, his rising re-
gard is not turned to lasting hatred. No
ruffian jealousy tramples out the memory of
hope nor is wounded pride left fostering in-
to fierce revenge.  He can make allowance
for her who was worthy his affection, and
he can admire and esteem, even when he
may not dare to love her.—Agnes de Mans-
field.


For the EXPONENT.
