RETRENCHMENT

	[An essay written for and read before the
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association of
the 20th Ward.]
MY BELOVED SISTERS:
	The subject chosen for to-day is Retrench-
ment. There is a great deal more contained in
the word retrenchment, than we young folks
realize, as a general thing. There are a num-
ber of young ladies who would no doubt be
pleased to join us, but they are afraid of being
called upon to speak. Now if I understand the
object of this association, it is to retrench in
every idle thought, word and action, as far as
possible, and to strive to overcome our timidity
in rising to express our thoughts and ideas one


to another; and if we have not the language
to express our feelings in words, as we would
like, we have the privilege of writing on any
subject which occupies our minds. I believe
we have in our ward, young ladies with as
good ideas and sentiments as there are in any
ward in the city, who are willing and anxious
to learn that which is intended to instruct and
benefit them, but for want of proper study and
a little practice, have never expressed their
feelings outwardly. Some of us have an idea
that if we join this society, we must retrench
in our dress. Now I think there are many oth-
er things we can retrench in beside dress. I
will leave it to the young ladies to ask them-
selves if they can not see room for improve-
ment in our manners, in our every day life, al-
so in our reading matter. Let as many of us
as have been in the habit of reading novels,
or books that have a tendency to lead the mind
to doubt the existence of a God, or a supreme
Being who rules the heavens and the earth, do
away with the practice, and read instead, books
that lead the mind in a higher channel, and
then we will know more of the nature and be-
ing of the God we worship. And our back-
wardness, and all such obstacles in the way of
advancement would be overcome to a great ex-
tent. We would then be able to converse more
freely on subjects which at present we know
very little about. My constant prayer is that
we may live lives of Saints and be worthy of a
name and standing in the church of Christ.
