[COLUMN 2]

all should earnestly pray that they may be
directed aright.
	We are all mortals and liable to make
mistakes, but even the very mistakes we
may make, may teach us useful lessons of a
severe but practical experience, which could
never have been gained by sitting down and
pining because our lot in life was cheerless
and obscure.
	We frequently hear the remark that these
women who never seem to know what they
were created for make good wives, because
they have boundless capacity for affection,
and will love, honor and obey, looking up
with feelings of reverence, and most truly
submissive to the advice and counsel of
their lord and master.
	Granting this to be true in part, that
girls who have no definite conceptions they
were created only to form a part and parcel
of another's existence, could such women
always find the one to whom they are con-
tent to yield obedience for their guiding
star, or pilot through life, they might find
things suited to their taste, but unfortunate-
ly we are not so well arranged in this
world; and oftener, perhaps, that the right
person never makes his appearance at the
right time and place to aid us, and carry
our load for us.
	Thus woman must often bear her own
burdens, without the assistance of a part-
ner, and she ought to be fully compe-
tent by every preparation possible, and
should kind fate even be so indulgent as to
accord to her a husband who will think
and act for her, she will then be doubly-
guarded, knowing she is capable of protect-
ing herself and having still another guardian
in him. But, kind reader, this is only one
view of the picture,—there are many other
shades and touches, blendings and minglings
of tints, and some of them are fearfully
dismal, and dark—but let every woman do
for herself all that is possible, in thinking
and in developing every attribute of God-
given grace and wisdom, and they can as-
suredly help the future growth and increase
of light and truth.
	Young ladies, do not content yourselves
with nonsense, see to it that you accom-
plish something creditable, which you can
look back upon with a consciousness of hav-
ing fulfilled a duty. What if it does not
seem the most pleasant; and what if others
indulge in idleness and froth? You are so
much their superior, whether the world ac-
knowledge it or not; He who understands
the motives of all hearts will not forget it
when He makes up his jewels.
	Do not bury your talent in a napkin, but
improve upon it, and you will be honored
not alone here, but hereafter.
	In the pathway of life there are thorns
and thistles, but they are necessary for the
protection of the finer and more delicate
blossoms and perfumes; only be careful to
handle them wisely, and some of the most
practical lessons may be learned from them.
	The sincerity and earnestness of your life
will be a surer passport to happiness than
any other. Those who take hold of the most
difficult labor, usually evince the most cour-
age, and develop the highest powers.
	The unhappy and unsatisfied ones are
those who never do anything but murmur
against their circumstances. By and by
the roses will fall, the violets wither, and
the winter of their hopes will come, and
then, if they have sown no good seed—all
is over; but for those who have preserved
and treasured up the good seeds of wisdom
and knowledge, seasoned with experience,
there will be a plentiful harvest of flowers
in the future.
	S. L. City, Nov. 25, 1875.


