HYGIENIC NOTES.
	Never go to bed with cold feet. Never try to
sleep without being perfectly certain that you will
be able to keep them warm. To lie one night
with cold feet gives such a strain to the system as
will be felt seriously, perhaps ending in a fit of
sickness.
	Cure for Cancer.—A sticking plaster is put over
the cancer, with a circular pieece cut out of the
center a little larger than the cancer, and a small
circular rim of healthy skin next to it is exposed.
Then a plaster, made of chloride of zinc, blood
root, and wheat flour, is spread on a piece of mus-
lin of the size of the circular opening, and is applied
to the cancer for twenty-four hours. On remov-
ing it the cancer will be found as though burned
into it, appearing of the color and hardness of an


old shoe, and the circular rim outside of it will ap-
pear white and parboiled as if scalded by hot
steam. The wound is now dressed, and the outside
rim soon suppurates, and the cancer comes out a
hard lump, and the place heals up. The plaster
kills the cancer, so that it sloughs out like dead
flesh, and never grows again. The application is
painful, but the pain is of comparatively brief
duration, which any one so affected cheerfully
endures. Not a case has been known of the
reappearance of the cancer where this remedy has
been applied.
	Sympathy for the Sick.—How many precious
lives have gone out prematurely, just for want of
the care they needed! Even sympathy does much
toward relieving our sick friends; sometimes more
than medicine can do, and still how many in this
wide world of ours are entirely denied that sympa-
thy which they have a right to claim. We have
seen this, we are sorry to say, without going to the
army hospitals, where it must necessarily be the
the case generally; "can't you do without it?"
should never be spoken to a feeble invalid, when
he is just beginning to have a little craving for
some nourishment which may require a few cents
and some effort to procure for him. Life itself,
sometimes, depends on such trifles--not triffles to
the helpless ones by any means. S. L.


