DEAR EXPONENT:
	I would like to say a few words, through
your columns, to my beloved sisters. The
earnest and brave, who are trying to help
to spread the gospel, by advocating its prin-
ciples at home, in private circles, in SundaySchools, in Retrenchment Associations, and
in every place where woman may be per-
mitted to raise her voice.
	I believe woman's influence to be one of
the most powerful instruments for good
upon the earth
	It is not necessary that woman should
be great, or learned, or popular, in order to
exert a power for good. Every woman who
is possessed of pure and good motives may
be inspired with the Holy Spirit (if she
seeks it aright), to perform a spiritual work
towards educating the young, which seems
a part of Woman's Mission. God has given
to woman this field of physical labor, to im-
part from her own body life to the ten-
der blossoms which contain the germ of the
immortal soul; then did He not also design
that she should bear an equally important
share in nurturing, from her own resources,
the heart, the true inner life which governs
and controls the outward?
	If we would help to educate the rising
generation to understand those advanced
principles which will lead them into the


celestial kingdom, it will be essential for us
to act with faith, and let prayer accompany
teaching and counsel, and above all let
prayer be not a form of words, void of feel-
ing, but in the strength and earnestness of a
humble heart, ask for the Holy Spirit to
guide and direct every act of our lives.
	So far as it is possible, let our teachings
and practices correspond, otherwise we shall
fail in producing the good we desire.
	Women are called enthusiasts upon the
subject of religion, but is it not this very
earnestness which makes them more devo-
ted followers of Jesus than men usually are?
How was it with Mary and Martha, and
others in the Saviour’s time? Were they
not looked upon as over-zealous, ridiculed,
censured and despised? Did not Jesus love
them for this sincerity and devotion? Did
He not strikingly manifest His appreciation
of their genuine merit by showing Himself
first to them after the resurrection? Have
we not encouragement enough, by this ex-
ample and its results, to believe the Lord
will bless us in our efforts, however humbld
they may be, and crown our labors with the
success which only those who enter heart
and soul into the work can expect to recieve?
							EMILE.
	S. L. City, Dec. 7, 1875.


