		STEP BY STEP.

	It is thus the little tottering feet first
learn to go. Step by step they advance in-
to the broader and higher walks of life, and
still in the same manner must they pursue
the course unto the end. There is no con-
sistency in contemplating more than one
step at a time. In cases where necessity
demands haste, we may quicken our steps
or take longer strides, but never two at
once. And every step in life, let the young
reflect, tends towards happiness or misery,
into light or into darkness. It would be
folly to undertake a walk through a crowd-
ed, busy street with the eyes shut; extreme
folly to think of moving onward with the
kingdom of God in the way of salvation,
having the eyes closed and the heart sealed
against any principle pertaining to the Gos-
pel. But when the eyes are able to see and
the heart to comprehend the dealings of
God among His children, then is the way
plain and following after righteousness
sweet and beautiful. Then is the yoke easy
and the burden light; then step by step,
calmly and surely the way may be wended.
	A young woman who had been but a few
years married, once talked in the following
manner to a company of young ladies. Said
she, "Girls if you are wise you will never
marry. A young woman who has a good
home is foolish for seeking to better her
condition by leaving it for any man on
earth."
	One of the young ladies asked why she
had left her good home and parents for the 
sake of marrying.
	"Because," she answered, I did not know
any better. I had been warned, but like
others before me I would not believe. I
could not appreciate the blessings by which
I was surrounded, and so I was unhappy
without any cause. Now I see my folly, and
if any thing I can say will help to save an-
other from acting in this foolish way I shall
be glad."
	You see this poor woman was unhappily
constituted, but she did not know it and
chose to blame circumstances instead of
herself for her misfortunes. She was like
one walking in the dark. Had she com-

[column 2]
prehended her true position, she might
have sweetened her cup of life by cultiva-
ting a sweet and amiable disposition, and
by opening her eyes to the beautiful things
in life and glancing as hurriedly as possible
over the dark scenes she was obliged to pass
through.
	I will show you the opposite side of the
picture by relating how I heard a young wife
and mother express herself not long since:
she said "It is wonderful to contemplate with
what small means a human heart may be plea-
sed and gratified. When I was a little girl I
was so happy and so well satisfied with the
position I held, that I never thought of
wishing to be 'big' as many of my little
companions did. I was sometimes half in-
clined to wish to remain as I was, lest, as a
woman, I should not have such easy and
pleasant times.
	"But as I grew older, and by and by,
balls and parties, beaux and lovers came to
fill up the vacancies I had imagined in giv-
ing up the delightful romps and merry
games which as a child I had so much en-
joyed, I came to believe that youth instead
of childhood was mortal's brightest day.
And instead of feeling the extra work which
crowded upon me as I grew, a burden, I
felt glad and happy all the while that I was
becoming daily better able to do something
for myself and for my friends.
	"When I was married, it was truly the
happiest day I had ever experienced. Dur-
ing a long and blissful maidenhood, which
numbered just as many years as the child-
hood which preceded it, I had avoided as
much as possible the thought of marrying.
The days seemed so beautiful and dear to
me then, that I dreaded a change lest it
should bring less propitious ones. But when
the day for my bridal arrived, I felt no mis-
givings whatever. For years I had made
daily practice of praying that I might be
directed by the Holy Spirit in choosing a
husband, for I had believed that I should
marry sometime. And now I felt so secure,
so satisfied that my prayers had been heard
and answered that there was no room for
doubts and forebodings.
	So serenely happy was I at the time when
I knelt in the holy sanctuary beside him to
whom I pledged eternal faithfulness, and
afterwards when he proved his love and
fidelity so sincere, that I scarcely looked
forward to any future hope. But after the
birth of my little one, the unparalleled
blessedness of the new love which came
made me almost wonder how I could have
felt myself so perfectly blessed for so many
years without it.
	I want every step in my future life to
prove as each one has in the past; that God
directs, that it is the proper step in the pro-
er time and place, bringing me into new
light and love and joyousness."
	Thus we may walk on, either in the
gloom of doubt and despondency or in the
broad, free light of hope and trust. But
choose which path we may, the shaded or
the sunny one, it is as well to remember
that we can move only so fast—step by step
—and that nothing is to be gained by head-
long haste.
