		E. B. WELLS

	"The keenest pangs the wretched find,
	Are rapture to the dreary void,
	The leafless desert of the mind,
	The waste of feelings unemployed."

	To know how to dispose of the faculties
God has assigned us, is one of the wisest
purposes of our lives.
	Unfortunately it is one which many peo-
ple are a long time discerning, and others
never arrive at any satisfactory conclusion.
	That God has given us almost unlimited
powers of discrimination and judgment,
that only require being brought into proper
exercise to develop our best and truest ten-
dencies, is apparent to all intelligent men
and women.
	Strange that people should possess insa-
tiate longings for something to do, to occu-
py their time, to make them feel they are
in the right channel for usefulness, and
never be able to determine for what their
peculiar capacities, gifts, or talents qualify
them.
	There are persons who possess such a de-
gree of intuition, as directs them from the
first dawning of intelligence upon their
minds, and they seem to fully comprehend
what their vocation in life should be, and
strive to make it practicable.
	Another class of individuals are brought
into circumstances which compel them
without any volition on their own part, to
occupy positions they have neither grace
nor ability to fill.
	Such persons are only entitled to the re-
spect due to their office, position or sur-
roundings. They can confer no dignity
upon the position, carry no personal influ-
ence to aid or augment their power. They
are dependent upon the place they hold, for
the respect, which every intelligent person
should win independently for themselves.
	How many young people are there in the
world, who are wearily sighing away the
hours, waiting to know their true sphere in
life, what nature has fitted them for, and
what will bring success if they enter upon
it.
	Undecided, fearful lest they should go be-
low their standard of manliness, or womanly
character; having no definite ideas, and
waiting for some interposition of Provi-
dence to develop in them what God gave
them reason and sense to determine for
themselves.
	Instead of taking hold of every day du-
ties and making circumstances bend to them,
disciplining their minds by adapting them-
selves to the work before them, they imag-
ine it is not what they consider most appro-
priate and let time go by, opportunities for
action pass, thoughts and feelings waste,
when the very elements of development, per-
haps, are within their reach, if they would
cultivate the neglected trifles which every
day presents, while they are looking afar off,
for some manifestation of future greatness,
and the real germ which should be cher-
ished and cultivated is running to waste, or
withering away in their own minds, for
very lack of exercise. These are usually
the unhappy ones, never satisfied, pining
for something which can never be attained
without exertion on their own part.
	How often do we hear the ejaculation, "If
I only knew what to do!" fortunate indeed
for such persons as these to have some one
in whom they believe to decide for them;
but how much more noble to be able to de-
cide for themselves, trusting in God to whom

