NOTES AND NEWS.

	GOVERNOR THAYER of Wyoming, in his
recent Message to the Territorial Legisla-
ture, endorses the system of Woman Suf-
frage, and adds, after six years' practical
trial, he would recommend its continuance.
—Woman's Journal.
	TENNESSEE IS doing bravely for the cause
of woman in one of the departments of the
Woman Question. The boards of education
have made this resolve; that, "they will
not hereafter pay any teacher less money
than another for the single fault of being a
woman instead of a man." It is said this
decision is causing some little excitement
in educational circles.
	THE UNVEILING of the Monument in
Memory of the poet Edgar A. Poe, took
place Nov. 17th, in Westminister Church
yard. The ceremonies attending the dedi-
cation were sublime and imposing. The
preliminary exercises to the unveiling took
place in the Western Female High School.
	THERE HAVE been placed in the Louvre
recently, six busts of the finest white mar-
ble, representing the first six Roman Em-
perors. Although they are many centuries
old, they are so well preserved that they
are, in appearance, as perfect as if they had
just been chiseled. The faces are said to be
particularly fine, that of Augustus especially
so. They were discovered in Africa.
	HIS EXCELLENCY President Grant has
delivered his message to the Senate and
House of Representatives, and summed up
his opinions of the country, the people, and
the future. He specifies five particular sub-
jects upon which he considers it necessary
to legislate this present session. He seems
to feel more concerned for Utah than any of
his predecessors have done, and is desirous
to establish some status by which plural
wives and their offspring may be recognized.
The "possibly innocent plural wives of
Utah" ought certainly to tender him a
vote of thanks, that is, if they did not
know, that in the sight of God and His ser-
vants their status was already permanently
fixed.
	"Joaquin Miller," writing from London,
gives a very pleasing though brief sketch
of some of the celebrated Ladies of Lon-
don. He speaks in the highest terms of
their genuine hospitality and warmth of
feeling, and says: "In fact, any of these
great ladies will make you feel as much at
home in half an hour, as if you'd gone to
take tea with a favorite aunt." Of Jean
Ingelow he says: "She lives in the aristo-
cratic Kensington Gardens quarter, but in a
plain and unpretentious way, and is very
affable and accessible to Americans."
"George Elliot" is sometimes seen in litera-
ry clubs with her husband, Mr. Lewis, but
very rarely. She lives in a very quiet, hum-
ble way in the north side of London, in a lit-
tle two-story house. Lady Hardy, another
of the great ladies of London, lives just
opposite. Mrs. Linletten lives in about the
heart of London in a more pretentious
style. Christina Rosetti is an invalid, and
lives with her mother and brother. The
ladies of Literary London have no meetings
as they have in America.


