			HOME AFFAIRS.

	OUR beloved Sister Lydia Golden who died a
short time ago, deserves a tribute of praise and
respect from those who knew her real worth
and many womanly virtues. She was an affec-
tionate mother, a tender, true and loving wife,
a kind and generous friend; a woman possess-
ing great Christian charity for the faults and
failings of others; she was benevolent to the
poor and needy, warm and sympathetic to-
ward those who were in sorrow and in grief;
and a firm believer in the Gospel of Jesus
Christ.
	It is worthy of note that Sister Golden was
the first woman who ever canned any fruit in
Utah.
					CORRESPONDENT,
	THE DESERET Silk Association met per
adjournment at the City Hall, December 1st,
1875; Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding. Mrs.
Young said that B. W. Schettler had reported to
her that he had a loom which with a little la-
bor, could be brought into use; said that she
would like to have means sufficient in the so-
ciety to purchase all the cocoons that were in
the Territory.
	B.W. Schettler said that he felt very much
interested in the raising and manufacturing of
silk; spoke of the time when President Brig-
ham Young advised the brethren to send and
get some machines, said that he sent and got
two Shekard looms, he had one left the other
got burned. The machines when imported,
cost 350 dollars; he proffered to let the society
have the one at 100 dollars if after it was fixed
up and had been worked they were satisfied
with it; said that he had written to Bro. Paul
Schettler who was in California for more partic-
ulars regarding the machine, and would re-
port in one week, but proffered the society the 
use of the loom and pattern cutter.
	Brother Hanney of Provo, being present,
said that he could fix up the loom and could al-
so work it.
	Bro. C.W. Stayner read, from a report, of
the statistics of the American Silk Association
New York, Nov. 30th, 1875, the following state-
ments. "The Silk Association of America, re-

[column 2]
ports, that the importations of raw silk for Nov.
are 1,257 packages; gold value, $965,380; and for
the five months ending Nov. 26th. 4,099 packa-
ges. valued at $10,340,489.  Of the Nov. receipts
232 packages were via.  England and the conti-
nent; and 1,025 via the Overland route." He 
also spoke of the amount of money sent from
home, which could be used for the benefit of 
our own people.
	Bro. A. M. Musser said that all enterprises
at first had small beginnings for example re-
ferred to the church when first organized; spoke
of the amount of labor this would give to the 
female portion of our people, also to the children
who would be glad to gather the leaves to feed
the worms; advised the brethren to put out 
trees and help the work along; said now was 
the time to put out trees for all who felt in-
clined to take hold of this great euterprise
thought that if the society would give notice
from time to time of their doings, it would act
as a stimulus and encourage the people to go
ahead; spoke of the manufacture of silk if
made a successful business of, what a benefit
it would prove to the people, and of the 
amount of wealth it would bring this Territory;
said that he had 3000 mulbery trees that were
doing well.  Motioned that Bro. Hanney of 
Provo work the loom, left with the Superin-
tendent and President.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young said that Mrs. Dunyon
had presented the association with several
ounces of silk-worm-eggs which could be ov-
tained by applying to her, the proceeds to be
for the benefit of the society.
	There was also a very fine specimen of home
made silk, which was raised and reeled by
Mrs. Delinda Robinson of Farmington.  It was
pronounced by competent judges to be as good
as they had seen anywhere.
	Brother Reuben Simpson read an article to 
show the benefit from the raising and manufac-
turing of silk, which was as follows:
	"The silk interest of America is growing and 
prosperons.  There is no complaint of hard
times, no closing of mills, no strikes among
operatives so far  The silk producers do not 
ask bonuses from the government, but only that 
the protection laws be rigidly enforced. The
interest gives employment to 150,000 per[-]ons,
over half of whom are women and girls who 
received last year $4,500,000.  The capitall in-
vested in the manufacture is $14, 700,000: so far
the raw silk is imported.  This is all wrong, in-
asmuch as the raw material can be produced
here as well as in China and Japan.
Meeting adjourned until the first Monday
in January, 1876, at the City Hall at 6 p. m.
			REUBEN SIMPSON,
						Secretary pro tem.
	P. S. All are invited who would like to try
the raising of silk, or have any information to 
impart upon the subject.


