			EDUCATION.

	The subject of education, and of superior ed-
ucation is one much talked of and much
thought of in this day and age of the world.
Indeed there seems to be a more general diffu-
sion of education among the masses of people,
than at any previous date of which there is any
record.
	Yet there are still those who are destitute of
the knowledge of reading, writing, and the
most common branches, even in the most en-
lightened countries. Probably much of this
arises from carelessness and lack of energy,
some from willfulness and various other causes.
	But leaving the broad field of society at
large, and coming down to Utah Territory,
speaking of the people who are gathered here
from all parts of the civilized world, how much
might be said to them on this important sub-
ject. Much has been said to awaken them to
an interest in schools and all institutions o
learning. But that those who possess all the
advantages of books and good schools should
be careless, indifferent and neglectful of any-
thing so important, is a mystery.
	Abroad in the world, and even in the United
States, the people are under the impression
(most of them) that this peculiar people the
Latter-day Saints do not believe in educating
the masses, that they wish, as some foreign
powers do, to keep them in ignorance, in order
that they may be more easily governed and
controlled. They do not judge fairly in this
matter. They do not take into consideration
all the disadvantages this people have labored
under in times past to bring this barren wilder-
ness into a fruitful field; and of those who are
still laboring to extend the borders of the Ter-
ritory, building cities and towns, and peopling
them with new settlers, mostly foreigners,
who gather here from religious motives. But
that the subject of schools and education is one
of vital importance to those who have the true
interest of this people at heart, is well known
to all who are acquainted with the policy of the
course pursued in regard to schools ever since
they settled here.
	Many of the pioneers of this country, and
the first settlers here, have donated largely
for the benefit of schools, have sought by every
means in their power and all the influence they
possessed, to impress upon the minds of the
people the advantages of liberal education.
Improvements are constantly being made, and
visitors from the East who will take the time
to examine into the conditions of the schools
in this city will find they compare very favor-
ably in all respects to the institutions of learn-
ing in their respective states. The children of
this territory are not growing up in ignorance

[column 2]
neither is it the desire of President Young or
any of the authorities of the church that they
should, but instead to use all the influence and
means possible to educate them. and give them
such advantages as will prepare them for
wide spheres of usefulness. Yet there are
many people who not having them-
selves received an education, think it un-
necessary for their children to supersede them
and feel they need their help at home; but
is not this the case in every community, and
are there not as many such in proportion
in other places, as in Salt Lake? How is it in
New York and those large cities? Are they so
far in advance of Salt Lake when one takes in-
to consideration all the advantages of time,
place and surroundings? If this people, men
and women, are allowed the privileges and
rights of other American citizens, in a few
years there will need be no complaints made
against their system of education.
	Strangers do not hesitate to say that the chil-
dren here are just as intelligent as in other com-
munities, notwithstanding they are shut out
from the world, and have been born a thousand
miles from civilization. One professional gen
tleman from the East, who has been for several
years past a resident of this city, remarked that
the morals of the young men in this place
surpassed those of young men in other cities
that had come under his observation.


[column 1]
