Your House Beautiful By Mabel Margaret Luke V FLOORS AND FLOOR COVERINGS THE study of floors is an important as well as fascinating field of interior decoration. The floor not only forms a part of the background of the room, but it is the structural foundation as well. It is the base on which the rest of the room scheme is built, and as such demands the most careful attention so that it will give a feeling of firmness just as does the earth in nature's landscape. It needs to be strong, comfortable to walk upon, as. Well as attractive in appearance. The floor is much more important than merely a surface on which rugs are laid, but is a part of the scheme of the room, and if suitable and artistic helps convey an impression of beauty, richness and refinement, but if dull and unattractive it can easily spoil a successful effect. It is not only necessary that the floor does support the room and its furnishings, but it must appear to do so as well. The eye must be convinced of the fact. If it is not the room will seem top heavy and without sufficient foundation. This result can be achieved by the use of three properties—color, texture and material. Dark colors suggest stability, strength and support and give an impression of greater weight. They also suggest nearness while light colors give an effect of distance. All these factors make one feel instinctively the appropriateness of darker tones for the base. The balance of the room depends in a large measure on the floor being darker than the walls and ceiling. It should also key in or harmonize with the scheme of the room so that no conflicts will result. A sense of support may also be conveyed by the texture, that is the density of a material. A heavy weave, or deep pile will give the effect of greater weight than a material of the same color in a flat, fine weave. Keeping this fact in mind one may use a rug lighter in color than the walls of the room if it is of heavy texture so that it has the appearance of weight and bulk. This same thing applies in the field of structural floors as woods in natural finish, marbles, stone, tile, etc. Such floors as these are often seen in very light colors, even white, with walls of a deeper tone. But the sense of foundation and balance is kept because the material is so obviously structural that we instinctively know it is firm and capable of supporting weight. In old houses, especially of the early colonial period wide plank floors were common. Such floors even though light in color have a structural quality so evident in the narrow boards. However, as a general and almost always applicable rule it is better to keep the floor darker than the walls so it will stay down as it is advisable to keep the ceiling light so it will stay up. N a room with a light floor it is sometimes possible to adjust the color values by using darker rugs. However, this brings up another problem—be careful that you do not get a spotty effect which is very possible especially with many small rugs. YOUR HOUSE BEAUTIFUL There must not be too great a contrast of values so that undue attention is called to the floor which should be inconspicuous and quiet in effect. To achieve this result it is necessary also that judgment be used in choosing patterned floor coverings. It is well to remember the principle of movement. Often the lines of a pattern form diagonal or zig-zag lines on the floor which are very annoying, and, being opposed to the lines of the room, are upsetting to the principle of structural unity. Large patterns should not be used in small rooms nor on small rugs. A plain floor besides being a perfect background adds to the apparent size of the room. A carpet to the baseboard also gives this effect, while a number of small rugs appears to decrease its size. A too large room may be made to appear smaller if two medium size rugs instead of one large one are used. If your room is long and narrow and you wish it to appear wider lay long rugs across its width. One large rug or carpet unites the room and its furnishings. Pattern is often very useful in achieving interesting results and is not to be despised, but it should be of conventional design, evenly covered over the surface, with no spots or medallions. Do not choose any pattern in which the movement is distracting or harassing. Another important point which cannot be emphasized and repeated too many times is this: If the walls, drapery, or upholstery have conspicuous pattern the floor must be plain. Nothing is more distracting than an excess of pattern. Not only is the sense of repose destroyed, but the conflicting patterns ruin the effect of each other. Nor are all plain surfaces much better. A happy me- 363 dium is best. Plain walls and floor allow much freedom in the choice of drapery and upholstery. Or with plain walls pattern may be used in the floor covering. To have no more than two surfaces with pattern (and these two must not include both the wall and floor) is a fairly safe guide in decorating a room. UGS and floor coverings should be purchased to harmonize with the general shapé of the room, and be large enough so as to appear adequate. Do not pay for a floor covering until you see how it looks in place in your home. It may be very attractive in the shop, but utterly unsuited to your room, its furnishings and use. There is a tendency to throw small rugs down at angles, creating lines in opposition to those of the room. When placing furniture in such a room it would have to be placed to harmonize either with the rugs or the room and there is more conflict. To avoid this condition there is a simple rule to follow—rugs must be laid parallel to the lines of the room and there is never an excuse to deviate from this principle. The first floors were of dirt, later covered with rushes, then stones and finally wood. Today there are so many kinds of floors and finishes the question is—which shall it be? Shall it be of wood? Or is the house of Spanish or Italian style in which marble, stone or tiles would be suitable? If of wood, what kind and how shall it be finished? If covered, shall it be carpet, rugs or linoleum, and what kind. Of pattern, if any? The way you answer these questions may mean success or failure in your decoration scheme. In the United States wood is the material most commonly used for floors, either of soft or hard wood, 364 in natural finish, painted or stained. Floors of wood are warm and dry and grow mellow with the years, giving an effect of richness and charm. Hardwoods make the best floors, wearing more evenly and are more attractive. The woods most used are oak and maple. Softwoods of pine, fir and spruce are often used for floors, especially when they are to be covered or painted. If the surface is good a natural finish is usually most satisfactory. Hardwoods are finished by sanding. Then applying a coat of filler, one of shellac and finally two or three coats of paste wax. If it is desirable to make the floor darker, stain may be applied. A varnished surface is very good, although it will show wear in spots and must be refinished frequently. Wax may be applied over varnish and will preserve and protect it. Softwoods may be treated in the same way, and although not as durable as hardwood make very nice floors. If the floor surface is not good painting would be advisable, using deck paint or a good grade of floor enamel. It may then be waxed as any other floor, giving it an excellent finish. It may be mentioned in passing, that a floor painted black and waxed makes a most beautiful and distinctive floor and is especially suitable for modern decoration. Waxed surfaces are especially lovely as they have a rich, subdued luster which adds cheerful warmth to the room, and enhances the beauty of the whole interior. The finish is lustrous without being glossy, which is the chief fault with varnish unless it is rubbed down. Wax. Has the advantage of not wearing off as does paint and varnish, and it protects the surface. Waxed floors are easily kept in good condition, wiping with a dry mop daily and cleaning occasionally with liquid wax. It will be necessary to rewax once or twice a year, removing the old wax with steel wool and turpentine. Do not use water on waxed floors, nor on any floors unless absolutely necessary, and then only mild suds, and dry quickly. Water penetrates the pores, rots and warps the finish and discolors the woods. Care must be exercised when applying wax that too much is not used and that it is thoroughly polished to prevent the slipperiness and accidents that may result. Parquetry floors made of hardwood laid in designs are very lovely, dignified in appearance and suitable to many decoration schemes of the more formal type. In addition to the beauty of the wood they have the added charm of the shapes and lines of the patterns. They are treated in the same manner as hardwood floors. Other structural floors are the mosaics, marble, composition, stone, tile and cement. If correctly handled they can fit into many decoration schemes in an interesting manner. Although these materials are nearly always light in color we get an effect of adequate weight because of the structural quality. Such floors insure a solid, permanent foundation. Stone floors are appropriate in country house or with furnishings of rugged character. Marble, mosaic and terrazzo floors may be used with more refined furnishings. Tile, cement and brick are suitable in hallways, sunrooms, etc. All these floors are sanitary, fireproof and easily cleaned. They are, however, hard to walk on as they are not resilient. In using any of these materials in decorative schemes it is necessary to keep them in scale with the room and its furnishings. Tiles are especially suitable in Spanish and Italian rooms. Also bathrooms, sunrooms and kitchens, as well as in vestibules and halls. They may be kept in good condition by going over them with a woolen rag dipped in milk, or on a large area with sawdust and linseed oil. Brick floors may be painted, varnished and waxed. Cement floors may be painted or the cement colored. Interest may be provided by insets of tiles or polychrome. They may be cleaned in the same manner as tile floors. Cement floors are often used in the basements of modern homes and may be made most attractive if given some thought in the decoration scheme. There are in addition to these structural floors some composition materials that make excellent floors. Examples of these are rubber and cork tiles. They resemble tiles in shape and appearance but are resilient, elastic and are not noisy. They would be used in the same type of room tile is and are especially suitable in kitchen, bath, halls and libraries because of their qualities.
SOME of the principles involved in choosing rugs and carpets have already been discussed. A few other points may be mentioned here. The question is often asked—Which is better to use, rugs or carpets? This is largely a matter of personal preference. The rugs are more sanitary, and rooms having rugs are easier to clean than those with carpets. However, in this day of vacuum cleaners this may be only a minor consideration. If your room is very small a carpet will make it appear larger. Carpets over the floors of all the intersecting rooms will give a feeling of unity and increase the apparent size. This is especially important in apartment decoration. Plain floor covering is always safe and beautiful. There is on the market a deep pile material which may be cut in any design you or your decorator may desire, the pieces being fitted together with tape on the reverse side giving a seamless effect. Plain surfaces have the disadvantage of showing every mark and footprint. In rooms that are used a great deal or where there are children the wisest choice is a rug or carpet with an all-over design, flat in effect, conventionalized in pattern which compactly covers the surface and has little contrast in values. There are many splendid patterns on the market. The most important requirement in a floor covering is that it must be inconspicuous in pattern so that it will keep its place on the floor, and not seem to fly up to meet you when you enter a room. Some patterns seen in floor coverings certainly clamor for attention. The materials mostly used in rugs are worsted, woolens, linens, cotton, hemp and jute. Worsted has the best wearing qualities. The main weaves are a plain weave as ingrain, or pile weave as velvets, Wiltons, etc. In choosing a rug the practical side must be considered also. Choose a rug suitable in weave and texture for the place in which it is to be used. Do not, for example, put a valuable rug of fine weave and materials in a front hall. Rugs that get a great deal of wear should have good cleaning qualities. Many Oriental rugs are very lovely but they are not suitable for any and all schemes. Be sure the predominating color is in accord with the room. The people of the East have a wonderful faculty for handling color, and in some of the best Oriental rugs the colors are so blended that one gets the appearance of texture rather than pattern. If it has perceptible design use care with other pattern in the furnishings of the room. Before investing in an Oriental rug make a study of them, read about them, and visit rug stores and dealers to get acquainted with them at first hand. A trade name is no guarantee of its quality. Hooked, cross-stitch, braided, woven and rag rugs are very suitable in informal rooms as well as those of early American type and are most attractive. Padding under rugs or carpets lengthens their life, improves the appearance and helps to deaden sound.
LINOLEUM is a comparatively new material that is gaining a larger place in decorative schemes every year. It comes in a variety of patterns and colors from which a choice may be made to suit almost any scheme. Linoleum is always suitable in kitchens, laundries and bath. For these rooms which are usually small it is best to choose the smaller tiles and patterns. But this is not the only place in which they are suitable. They are correct in any room in the house. However, decoratively speaking they must be considered in the same category their patterns represent. That is, if their design represents marble they are suitable for hall or large rooms of formal character. If tile or slate pattern they may be used where that material would be. There is an excellent linoleum made in imitation of Colonial wide-plank floors which is very suitable in early American rooms. Some patterns are made in imitation of carpets and rugs and would be used where the fabrics would be. Inlaid linoleum is much more durable than printed and is usually more economical in the end. It should be cemented down by expert workman and you will have a permanent floor, over which, if you desire, you may put rugs as on any other floor. Linoleum is resilient. It is the easiest of all floors to keep clean. Printed linoleum should be varnished once or twice a year. Inlaid linoleum may be kept in good condition by waxing two to four times a year. It may be cleaned by dusting with a floor brush. When it becomes necessary to wash linoleum a mild soap suds should be used and only a small amount washed at a time. Caustic washing powders and alkaline soaps are harmful to linoleum.
IN choosing a floor or floor covering the type of room in which it is to be used, and the furnishings in the room must be considered. For example a dining room should have a rug without a deep pile for food particles to lodge in, and a texture not easily crushed. A living room needs a refined design yet substantial enough to give good wear. Caution must be exercised in the treatment of the bedroom floor that it is not too light for the walls. Dainty colors seem to belong in bedrooms and nurseries, but they should not be weak. Hooked, woven or braided rugs are especially suitable for these rooms. The ideal kitchen floor is durable, comfortable to walk and stand on, smooth but not slippery, attractive, and easily cleaned. A painted wooden floor, linoleum or rubber tile seems to meet most of these requirements. Tile or slate makes an attractive floor, easy to clean, but is very tiring and more or less noisy. They are more desirable in bathrooms. Perhaps the problem confronting one is what to do with floors that are old and worn. In many houses we find floors of wide boards. Often staining and shellacing will help, or if full of cracks and crevices putty or crack filler may need to be used and the floor painted or varnished. If very bad the best idea is to cover entirely with padding and carpet or linoleum. If a varnished floor is badly worn it is best to remove the old finish and start anew. An idea that is frequently used with good results is to tack a worn rug or carpet face downward, and paint and varnish it. Old rugs and carpets may be made into new. If the design on your printed linoleum has been worn off it can be made to give further service by painting or enameling a desirable color. Floor enamel may now be purchased in white to which desired coloring may be added, thus eliminating the necessity of using the rather drab floor paints usually found on the market. Give two or three coats. It may be either left plain or stippled, stenciled or marked off into squares. If a stencil pattern is used care should be taken to avoid a spotty effect, an all-over design is good. A final coat of varnish may be applied if desired, however this will give a yellowish effect as there is no varnish entirely colorless. With this discussion of floors we have completed the study of the fixed background. We are now ready to consider the movables which go into the room. Next month we will take up the question of drapery and curtains.