Be Genuine—Be Yourself —Recognize Worth of Others Given over KSL, Dec. 9, 1932 By Elise B. Alder
Ralph Waldo Trine says, "To be one's self is the only worthy, and by all means the only satisfactory thing to be." "May it not be good policy to be governed sometimes by one's surroundings? What is good policy? To be yourself first, last and always." No man is genuine who is forever trying to pattern his life after the lives of other people. We should be ourselves. Our foundation is made up of high ideals and standards. The art of being human begins with the practice of being genuine and following standards of conduct which the world has tested. One author says, "Forget effects and be yourself. Have a good time with all your heart and mind and strength. Show that you're having it. Take as many others in on it as you can. And you'll find people gravitating in your direction." We must just be ourselves and make the most of what we are by all means, and be sure we glorify the things we have. Marden says, "There is no fate or destiny which puts one man down and another up. It is not in our stars but in ourselves that we are underlings. He only is beaten who admits it. The world belongs to him who can conquer it." We are responsible for the right use of our talents and must use and enjoy those we now possess and be grateful for our present opportunities and blessings and trust our ability and the future to bring what is good and best for us. We should spend our time in being what we are, not in trying to appear what we are not. Simplicity and sincerity are divine qualities leading to fineness and beauty of life. Let us apply the truth which we now possess and still greater truth will be revealed to us. It would be well to take Polonius' advice to his son: "This above all to thine own self be true, and it will follow as the night the day thou canst not then be false to any man." One of the most marked tests of character is the manner in which we conduct ourselves toward others. A graceful behavior toward superiors, inferiors, and equals is a constant source of pleasure to ourselves. Every person may, to a large extent, be a self educator in good behavior, as in every thing else; he can be civil and kind, if he will, though he has not a penny in his purse. Courtesy is necessary even if it were not profitable in business affairs, the consciousness of having borne one's self like a gentleman or lady in all circumstances is worth much more than any temporal prosperity it may help to secure. One author says, "The good mannered can do without riches. All doors fly open to them and they enter everywhere without money and without price." The courteous person is courteous to the poor and humble and unfortunate as well as to the fortunate. Courtesy shows in the outward actions, but it lives in the heart and he who wishes to give pleasure to others and also produce happy impressions of himself must be courteous. It is simply the doing and saying of the appropriate and suitable things at the right moment and in a gracious and suitable way, or in simpler words: "It is the doing and saying the kindest things in the kindest way." Every person has something of worth and we should recognize it. The habit of recognizing the worth of others will be worth a great deal to any one before his or her life is over. Let us think highly of those about us and give them the benefit and encouragement of our most generous thoughts and appreciation. Marian M. Hudson says in her "Appreciation Delayed." "Somewhere in the future, God knows where These tired hands will lie at rest— and then The friends and loved ones will recall with tears Some kindly deed they wrought in bygone years. Will ponder o'er those little acts again And register them all on heart and brain. My precious ones, why wait? Tell me today If ever hands of mine have soothed your way."
We should cultivate a spirit of appreciation and gratitude for others and what they have done for us and mean to our life and with Ella Wheeler Wilcox we say:
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Love thyself last. Look near, behold thy duty To those who walk beside thee down life's road. Make glad their day by little acts of beauty And help them bear the burden of earth's load.
"Love thyself last. And oh, such joy shall thrill thee, As never yet to selfish souls was given Whate'er thy lot, a perfect peace will fill thee And earth shall seem the ante-room of Heaven.
"Love thyself last, and thou shall grow in spirit To see, to hear, to know, and understand The message of the stars, lo, thou shall hear it, And all God's joys shall be at thy command."
"Happiness does not consist of what we have but what we are; not in our possessions but in our attitude towards them. It is the serenity of the soul in the presence of a present joy."
"The smallest pool of water can mirror the sun, it does not require the ocean."
Let us live to our possibilities for a single day, and we will not have to die to get to Heaven; we will be making Heaven for ourselves and for others right here today on this little earth of ours.
"As a man thinketh so he is Health walks where pain has trod As a man thinketh, so he is Rise then, and think with God."