"The Minichoor" To My Mother By Ruth Partridge Richan
Mid-way between Salt Lake City and Beaver, the long low touring car came to a stop, limping off the road into the shade of a lone service station. A young man crawled out and looked ruefully at a defunct rear tire, removing his sun glasses and digging the sand out of his ears.
"It's no go dear, the tire is flatter than the instep of a goose. Might as well have it fixed right here. Lucky too, this might have happened out in the sticks."
There was a small sound of fury from the car. "The sticks—and what would you call this pray?"
"Oh it might be worse, with a garage right here. The house back there has a big porch covered with vines. You can wait there it will be much nicer than sitting in the sun in some of the country we have just come through. It won't be long anyhow—"
"It won't be long! I can't remember when I haven't been in this dust and heat."
"Only three hours! Dear—"
"Don't 'dear' me—nothing would do, I had to come. Three hours of —this—and why? Don't ask me. No man with any sense would have business in this wilderness to start with, let alone bringing me down here on a jaunt like this—it's disgusting. And when I get down there, we'll have the drive back again, and all this over—"
"Are you going to sit here in the sun, or are you going up on that porch in the shade—no one wishes any more devoutly than I do that you were at home. However there's no use in having a scene for the benefit of the public."
The girl in the blue coat shot a quick look at her husband. His mouth had a queer tight look around it, so she turned the handle and stepped thoughtfully out of the car. The dust slopped up over her slippers, and seeped into her sheer hose in a hot wave. As if to add the proverbial "last straw," a scarf on her dress caught a loop on the car handle and tore loose, breaking the clasp on her brooch and dropping it into the red dirt. Down on her silken knees the girl hunted frantically for her treasure.
"Oh! Is there anything left for me to do on this trip to make it more unbearable? If I have lost it, I'll never forgive you— never—I hate this dirt, and this heat, and this awful monotony—I almost hate you—I—I—here it is— but if—"
"Having trouble, folks?"
"Well, yes. My wife thought she had lost a pin—and it's rather hot—"
"Um huh. I see," there was a twinkle of blue eyes in a sunburned old face.
The girl in the blue coat walked away without a word, up the path to the old stone house vine covered and cool that looked out on to the rolling sand hills. In the green depths of the porch she heard the creak of a laboring rocking chair, and a tremulous old voice singing "Come, come ye Saints."
"Pardon me, can I sit here while our car is being repaired?"
The creaking and singing stopped abruptly and a thin, gray little old 348 lady came to the edge of the steps, and resting her hands on the shoulders of the girl in the blue coat, she peered into her face.
"Sakes alive, you're covered with dirt. Come in the house a spell. Take off your coat and shake out the dust. Hot ain't it? Here's a pail of fresh water—wait I'll get a clean cup. Take off those glasses—nice to travel in ain't they? Beats all what folks thinks up for comfort these days—would you care for some fruit?"
"No really, it is too much bother— well maybe just a little. I'll just leave my coat here, and you must come out and finish shelling your peas."
Soon the rocking chair was busy again. "Where do you hail from?"
"Salt Lake City."
"You don't say—going to California?"
"Oh no. Around Beaver somewhere. My husband is interested in a farm in that vicinity."
"Aim to settle there?"
"Oh no—no—"
The little old lady chuckled at the vehemence in the city girl's voice. "Take off that hat and rest your head. My sakes, child, what hair! And you never cut it? Most young women cut their hair now-a-days. Never saw nicer hair but once. That was years ago. She was bound for Beaver too."
"Who was?"
"The girl with the beautiful hair. I always think of her that way. It was the color of honey, even through the red dust."
"Dust—ugh—did they have it then too?"
"Land-a-livin', there was no pavement and surfaced roads in them days. The dust came half way up to the hubs."
"Oh pioneer times you mean."
"Well, yes—and no. There's pioneers in every time, but this was only about eighteen ninety-eight. These people were coming from Provo. The husband was going to teach school at the old Academy at the Fort. Since then the school has been given up."
"Did you say they were from Provo about thirty years ago?"
"Yess'm. Why?"
"Oh—nothing. How—how did you find out?"
"Ask'em. I declare I've forgot the name they give."
"Would you tell me about them? I'd like to hear the story and it will help pass the time—"
"Why yes, I'll tell you. There's nothing I'd rather do than spin yarns, if I can get anyone to listen. Now let's see. It was the early summer of ninety-eight when they pulled into our place. (My husband was a blacksmith in them days.) There was quite a little settlement here, a farm or two. Well, they were a sorry looking outfit I can tell you. A hay-rack was first, hitched to two tired horses, then tied on back was an open buggy—and tied on back of the buggy was a cow. Yess'm. Quite a little parade in all. The hay-rack was full of furniture. The girl with the honey colored hair was in the buggy—and what else do you think? Well sir, there was plants! As sure as I'm sittin' here, she had that buggy full of plants. There was a little covered glass jar of mossy looking stuff she had brought from the East—"
"From the East?" said the girl in the blue coat faintly—
"Yes, she wasn't a Western girl I learned later. Then she had a cala lily, and a big rubber plant and a marguerite—well in all she had a buggy full. There was no top on
THE "MINICHOOR"
the buggy and she sat in the middle of it all, holding a blue and white striped parasol over her head. Her big hat was tied on with a scarf, and fastened with a picture pin—a 'minichoor' she called it."
"A picture pin—"
"Yes ma'am. Her eyes were the color of the stripes in the parasol, and through all the dust and dirt, she was the most beautiful girl that ever I saw. When she took down her hair that night, it came to her knees. And she was so tired. The second day out from home they broke the standard on the wagon. Then south of Washboard Valley they stuck in the sand, and had to unload everything to get out, and she was so sick—"
"Sick?" faintly—
"Yes. Baby sick. Her little girl was born at Christmas time. She told me that when she couldn't stand it any longer, her husband would stop the outfit and milk the cow tied on behind. The warm milk stayed down better than anything. They couldn't travel very fast on account 349 of the critter on back. It took them eight days to go to Beaver."
"Eight days!"
"And such a time as they had. They spent one night at Cove Fort, and one night they slept in the sulphur caves—the road don't go there now. And one night—I declare it seems like yesterday—they put up for the night at a squatter's down the road a-piece. The hut had only two rooms in it, and these folks got the floor of one of the rooms. They were there for breakfast. I don't know how they managed, these squatters were a shiftless outfit. No forks to eat with, and mighty few knives and everybody dipping out of the same pot. Come to think of it, the squatter outfit left the country mighty sudden after a man that stayed there one night came up missing. The general opinion was that he was murdered for his money. Never could prove nothin' for we never found hide nor hair of him after."
"Horrors!"
"Of course folks had to carry
COVE FORT
350 water in them days for their horses. I recollect they filled their barrels at Smith's. Old Meg Smith told me later that they were full up in the house and so the teacher and his wife slept out by the hay stack, and during the night an old mother pig and her babies rooted them out of bed."
"Why didn't my f—I mean why didn't her husband send her on the train to Milford and then by stage to Beaver—there was a train wasn't there?"
"Yes there was a train, but no money. He was in debt for his schooling back East where he met her, and teachers here in those days got paid mostly in scrip and produce—and by produce I mean mostly sow-belly and potatoes."
There was silence on the shady porch except for the squeak of the rocking-chair and the cheerful sound of peas rattling into the pan.
"Imagine a man taking a sick wife on a jaunt like that—it's—it's awful. Things are bad enough the way I— the way it is now with cars and doctors—"
"Well yes, but look, she would have had to travel all alone without him, her being a stranger in the country. In those days people took hardship as it came, expectin' it. And, honey, it was no picnic for him either, and after all, she was his wife. I've often wondered how the little baby got along. I only saw it once. Guess I'd have heard if it hadn't done well. I mostly heard everything. People used to neighbor in
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
those days and tell the news instead of whizzing by like a cyclone the modern way. Well here comes your husband. Yes, yes, come right up. I've been spinning yarns for your wife."
"That was nice of you," said the man in the sun glasses but his eyes were troubled. "I was thinking dear, if you would rather stay here, I could go on down alone. The old gentleman says they could put you up for the night. It is rather a hard trip and I know you feel rocky—"
"Why—why no—I, that is—it won't be so bad from now on, and Dr. Benton said there was no danger —it's just a few hours—"
"Well if you really want to come, but we won't take any more trips like this until—well, for a while at least. Thanks to you folks for the nice rest and the fruit, we'll stop in on our way back to rest and get a drink of that nice cold water. Goodbye."
"Good-bye to you, take care of yourselves."
There was silence for several miles in the long low car. "Comfy?"
"Yes—and I'm sorry I was cross, I was so tired—"
"I know. I never should have brought you but you're so precious to me now I can't bear to leave you."
Eight days, eight days, sang the tires on the pavement. "Oh, I'm much better now. I've been taking a sort of cure. And dear, when we get back will you get my miniature fixed? You know I think a lot of it, it was my mother's."
There is no unbelief. Whoever plants a seed beneath the sod And waits to see it push away the clod Trusts in God. —Bulwer-Lytton.