MORMON LAKE FRINGED WITH YELLOW PINE TIMBER The largest body of fresh water in Arizona. It is located in the Coconino National Forest of Arizona.
Prohibitionists, Fight On! Address of Senator Morris Sheppard Before Women's National Committee for Law Enforcement, Thursday Evening, April 13, 1933, in Washington, D. C.
The return of beer and the submission to the states of the question of repealing the 18th Amendment make it necessary to press with added energy and determination the fight on beverage alcohol. A new generation has come upon the scene since the advent of national prohibition, a generation unfamiliar from the standpoint of experience with the evils of legalized liquor. The most extensive campaign of false insinuation and assertion any nation ever knew has been constantly under way against prohibition. We must resist the return of this traffic with all the fervor and the power at our command and the best way to resist is to attack. We must not permit this nation to forget that a legalized liquor trade means a lower form of civilization. We must not permit this nation to forget that beverage alcohol is one of the most prolific sources of impoverishment, misery, disease and crime. We must not permit this nation to forget that alcoholic liquors spread and multiply these evils to such an extent as to prevent for vast numbers of people the proper enjoyment of the fundamental rights to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. I know that we may boast of material assets surpassing those of the remainder of the globe—of an imperial sweep of mountain, forest, river, valley, lake and plain—of fields and mines and factories with outputs exceeding those of any other realm, of railroads, highways, mechanical contrivances, structures of steel and stone and wealth of every type on a scale never before observed in history. But above and beyond all these in true and lasting value are the men, the women and children of this republic. In helping to place the returns for human toil on a substantial and hopeful basis by diverting earnings from beer dispensaries and other saloons to savings, in helping to save American motherhood from the menace of drinking and drunken husbands, in helping to banish the terror from the souls of children cowering beneath the frowns and blows of intoxicated parents, in helping to abolish the use as a beverage of that powerful and alluring narcotic poison, alcohol, a poison destructive of the human organism and of the foundations of society and free institutions, prohibition conserves and protects humanity's most vital values. One of the causes which brought about national prohibition was the inborn lawlessness of the liquor traffic—its ruthless and continuous violation of every law enacted for its regulation. The day after beer was again authorized Washington newspapers began to report violations of the provision in the Congressional act restoring beer in the District of Columbia forbidding sales to minors and also to report threats of prosecution by the authorities. The resubmission of the 18th Amendment and the restoration of beer in defiance of the Constitution were precipitated mainly by propaganda as truthless as it was persistent. It was said that drinking and drunkenness increased under prohibition when the reverse was true. A careful survey by a statistical agency of the United States government in 1931 showed that if every source of the illegal production and sale of liquor had been fully utilized in 1930 and the quantity thus produced and sold had been entirely consumed the volume consumed would not have been more than a third as great as that consumed in the peak wet year of 1914. It was by no means certain, however, that even this possible third had been actually produced or consumed. At the rate of decrease shown by this governmental survey consumption of intoxicating liquor would have been reduced to unimportant proportions in this country within a generation. It is true that arrests for drunkenness increased under prohibition, but this does not mean that drinking increased. Arrests for drunkenness were made on a far stricter basis after the enactment of national prohibition. Before prohibition an intoxicated person would not be arrested if not actually disturbing the peace or if not endangering his own safety or the safety of others. After prohibition far stricter standards governed arrests for intoxication and many police departments issued instructions for the arrest of anyone involved in traffic law violation who had the odor of liquor on his breath. It has been said by police chiefs that if the same rules governing arrests for intoxication had been followed before the enactment of prohibition there would have been ten times more arrests before prohibition than during prohibition. It was said that there were more speakeasies during prohibition than 355 there were saloons before prohibition. And yet a government survey in two of the wettest cities in America, New York and Detroit, showed this charge, so far as these cities, where there would probably have been more speakeasies than anywhere else, were concerned, to be an exaggeration bordering upon the ludicrous. For instance the number of speakeasies in the city of New York was asserted to be all the way from 32,000 to 60,000. The government survey showed 3,934 places where liquor might have been sold— of which 2,182 were reported speakeasies—927 were restaurants—286 were cordial shops, and 119 were night clubs. It was claimed that there were 28,000 open illegal saloons in Detroit. The government survey showed 1,561 suspected premises. It was argued that increase in crime was due to prohibition whereas noted and established criminologists took the opposite position after studying the situation from a purely scientific viewpoint. It was asserted that the penitentiaries were overcrowded on account of convicted breakers of prohibition laws. The truth is that taking both state and federal penitentiaries into account dry law violators constituted about 5 percent of the prison population of America. It was contended that prohibition suppressed personal liberty. The wets have never seemed to grasp the basic truth that liberty must be defined in terms of human welfare, that the right of a family to a decent and comfortable existence is superior to the right of individuals to drink intoxicating beverages, that frequently by repressing the liberty to do one thing we release and facilitate the liberty to do a better thing —that those who will not subordinate physical appetite to the general good do not exhibit the best conception of citizenship. It was claimed that the 18th Amendment was adopted without due consideration. Let us see. That amendment was ratified by legislatures elected mainly in 1916 and 1918. National prohibition amendments had been pending in Congress since December, 1913, and the whole nation was on notice that both Congress and the states might be called upon to act upon the question at any time. Both in Congress and the states the issue of nationwide prohibition was actively, earnestly and continuously debated and considered from December, 1913, until submission by Congress in 1917 and from that time until ratification by all the states but two. It was said that prohibition sent forth an army of federal spies and meddlers. Outside of those doing clerical and legal work there were about 1,700 federal officials engaged in prohibition enforcement, a mere handful scattered among 123 million people and over an area of about 3 million square miles. And yet the wet propagandists called that little group an army threatening the home, menacing privacy, and imperiling the liberty of the American people. It was asserted that the return of legalized liquor would promote temperance and moderation. As if there could be temperance in evil, or moderation in wrong. The supreme call of this mechanical age, an age in which the operation of machine power constitutes the basis of existence and of progress, is for the absolute prohibition of intoxicating liquor—for the steady nerve, the unwavering hand,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the unclouded brain. Who wants to ride upon a railroad train with a moderate drinker for an engineer? Who desires to become a passenger in an automobile with a moderate drinker for a driver, or in an airplane with a moderate drinker for a pilot? Who would feel secure on an ocean liner charging the darkness and the storm with a moderate drinker at the wheel, or a so-called temperate indulger on the bridge? Who would willingly submit to the knife of a surgeon moderately under the influence of drink? Science has shown that a single glass of beer will slow up for four hours the muscular reactions and nerve reflexes rendering it difficult, if not impossible, for the imbiber to make the quick decision and take the rapid action necessary in emergencies for the preservation of life and limb. Repeal the 18th Amendment, continue beer and wine or any other form of beverage alcohol, and such action would be interpreted as an invitation to the use of intoxicants, an approval of the liquor trade, especially when the government shares its profits as a source of revenue— a trade that takes terrific toll in broken hearts, in shattered bodies and in wasted lives. Such action would signify a reversal of form which would make this country the jest and sport of all mankind and would extinguish as pure a light as any nation ever lifted for the leadership and guidance of humanity. Prohibitionists, fight on!