President Robison Attends Conventions in East WE are glad to report that President Robison attended the Conference of the Women's National Council for Law Enforcement held in Washington, April 14-15, 1933, and also participated in the session in the National Council of Women that was called to plan for the women's exhibit at the Century of Progress Exposition. At this time she made arrangements for our Relief Society exhibit. Sister Robison visited the Exposition Buildings and comes back enthusiastic, feeling that a new era for women is dawning. She hopes many of our members will be able to go to Chicago this summer and enjoy the wonderful opportunities offered by the Century of Progress Exposition. It means much to have our President attend these conferences of representative women. While in New York, on invitation of President Moyle, she attended the conference of the Eastern States Mission, speaking at two sessions. Sympathy OUR hearts go out in deepest sympathy to Elder Richard R. And Amy Brown Lyman in the sudden death of their son, Wendell. Sister Lyman has been a tender, loving, devoted mother. During Wendell's boyhood he passed through a long, critical illness. His mother's whole thought centered in his welfare and it was due to her constant ministration that his life was preserved. May our Father give them fortitude to bear this great trial. May the spirit of peace abide in their home and may time heal their broken hearts. Wedding Announcements The observance of the correct social forms is never more important than in the matter of wedding invitations or announcements. Here you are certain of the newest and smartest. Priced at 7.00 The Deseret News Press 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah  Complete Suits for Men and Women?Children's Clothing a Specialty Prompt and Careful Attention to Mail, Telephone and Telegraph Orders Temple and Burial Clothes Variety of Grades and Prices  INSURANCE 1. RALPH THE MEN WHO DIRECT THE AFFAIRS OF THE BENEFICIAL LIFE HEBER J. GRANT, President The Nation has come to realize that Life Insurance is one investment structure built on a foundation sufficiently solid to withstand the acid test. Life Insurance has demonstrated that it is the greatest medium of public service in existence. J REUBEN CLARK, Jr., Director National recognition has been given the Beneficial, as the Leader in this region, for its remarkable progress, fair dealings and net low cost of insurance. Exceptional stability is emphasized in the fact that 98.5 % of our total assets is set aside for the benefit and protection of Policyholders. Premium payments made to the Beneficial revert back to your community and do double duty by aiding in its development. During 1932 the Beneficial placed in circulation for the benefit of people in its field of operation MORE THAN TWO MILLION TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS COMPANY BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY There Is No Better Foundation To Build Upon Than A Beneficial Life Insurance Contract