Happy Mothers By Marba C. Josephson
Home, health and happiness are the just heritage of every child. But we busy mothers of small children often overlook home and happiness in our anxiety concerning health. Recent tabulations show that the depression has been really beneficial to health conditions. Reduced pay has meant simpler, more wholesome food. This means that there is less time spent in the preparation of meals. More time should be available for home and happiness. But I wonder whether we are making the most of these two factors during this time when we need particularly to emphasize them. We are well aware of the fact that we must enjoy our children while they are young. It is only in their youth that they are wholly ours— later they rightly begin to belong to themselves and to others. Happy children make happy mothers; and it is equally true that it takes happy mothers to make happy children. The home is the keystone of the happiness arch. By home I do not mean the bare essentials which make any house; rather I mean that pulsing, vibrant something which is felt by the stranger who happens to enter the door. Home, in order to
be really a home, must harbor the spirit of comradeship that assures freedom, safety, and proper usage of authority. Home is not made by elegant furnishings. In fact, a home for small children should be very simply but sturdily furnished. All true homes have to be lived in; they can't be mere show windows. Living in a home means that tired little feet must at times be braced against the furniture. If you have lovely upholstered suites, you will have a hard time to resist an alarming shout when you see dusty little heads pillowed on the cushions. One of the first rules of home should be an avoidance of that paralyzing word "Don't." Therefore, if your household goods are an inheritance, as mine are, "rejoice and be exceeding glad," for they will undoubtedly hold together under rigorous children's activities better than the more up-to-date but frequently tawdry furniture of our own period. With these simple, easily cared-for furnishings, the children will feel free to develop naturally and live contentedly in the home. Mothers will be happier while the children are romping. Here we should note also that simplicity of food and home furnishings should be extended to simplicity of dress. Avoid as much washing and ironing as possible. See that the children's bodies and underwear are clean each day. Then let them enjoy themselves. I can't be grateful enough for the sun movement. Each summer I put my brood in cheap bathing suits and let nature take her course. It's comparatively easy to tub children and suits every evening. Both dry during the night and are ready for another day of happy, carefree play. As Edgar A. Guest said, "It takes a heap o' livin' in a house to make a home." Each member will have to contribute to that living. No one can be interested permanently in anything unless it helps to reflect his personality. So each should be encouraged to aid in the development of the spirit of the home. But how? A fireplace in a certain home is made entirely of family curios which have been cemented together. Interesting stones from national parks, fossils, samples of ores, mementoes of trips were all cemented into the front of the fireplace and truly made a hearthstone (heart stone) for the unity of that family. Let your children begin their collection now. I know too well the reflex action of most of us when we see Jenny, John, and Martin running in with their pebbles, bits of glass, and broken crockery. Curb that tendency and encourage them in their seeking for new and attractive things. It will help them develop "the seeing eye." Provide each child with a box (your grocer will be only too glad to let you have some of his empty cardboard cartons). Then you can say heartily, "Fine, Jenny. Take it to your box;" or, "Splendid, Martin. That's surely a pretty rock. Where'd you find it?" Every week or so the children will go through their boxes and weed
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
out the less desirable articles; so the supply will be constantly diminished —to make room for more. This eliminating process will help the child develop the discriminating eye. The individual box has another feature, besides preventing jagged nerves for mother, to recommend it: it helps the children learn the lesson of neatness. This properly placing of treasures helps the home tremendously and will point the way toward the habit of putting away all things. The lesson of tidiness is one which can't be started too early in youngsters' lives. Living in the home means also the responsibility of caring for the home. Each member of the family should have some particular tasks to do from the time when he can first toddle. Even the twenty-month old child can do his mite by getting the potatoes or carrots and by putting the garbage, cans, and papers where they belong. The three-year-old can do some of the dusting—if you are wise enough to keep your house free from bric-abrac that acts as dust accumulators. The five-year-old can do most of the sweeping on porches and walks. The older ones can do their bits of the necessary work, boy and girl alike, unless the boy has outside chores to tend to. This dividing of work will relieve mother somewhat and will give her more time to help in the development of the mental and moral satisfactions "of her little ones. In addition to helping with the general work, each child should be taught to care for his own things. This training takes considerable time at the start. Mother often thinks, "Gracious, I can hang things up more quickly than Junior and without half the fuss." But if she insists on Junior's picking his things HAPPY MOTHERS up, she is helping him invaluably and is saving herself work in the long run. Of course, hooks and shelves must be placed low enough for tiny hands to reach. The schoolroom method for caring for pairs of things, such as rubbers, galoshes, mittens, is worth. Following in the home. Get a box of-clip clothespins. Select a bright color for each child: green for one, orange for another, red, etc., and dip several of the pins for each child. Keep these clips in a little box in a convenient place. When the children take off bedroom slippers (the loss of which caused much trouble in our home until we adopted this method), let them clip them together and put them away immediately. When they come romping in from their rainy day excursions, they will soon get the habit of pinning their rubbers together—and how that will help mother the next time they have to be donned. One other very simple way of helping the home atmosphere is the naming of the place. Let the chil- 361 dren help select the name. My urchins (impelled by a book we've been reading) are calling our dwelling "Rockabye Cottage," very appropriately. The naming of the home adds interest and gives it an individuality which will lend charm not only to the members of the family but also to those who are fortunate enough to come within its walls. My plea is for a simple home and a wholesome manner of living—a home than can be easily and happily kept clean. I should like everyone to have a home that can be lived in comfortably by all members of the family; a home wherein the children can express their growing personalities. We mothers of these growing children need to plan to cut housework to a minimum in order that we may increase homework to - a maximum. If the foundation of companionship and co-operation is well-laid during the early life of our children, we as parents can confidently await the completion of the structure when they are mature.