The Importance of Standardization in County Welfare Work By Joseph A. Geddes Professor Sociology Utah State Agricultural College (Address delivered at Relief Society Conference, April 4, 1933)
Through its volunteer service the L. D. S. Relief Society is performing an important service to the intermountain area by developing wide-spread interest, information and practical experience in welfare work. The Relief Society magazine also provides a medium through which a continuous program of education is maintained. The semi-annual conference as contrasted with the annual gatherings of the State and National Conferences further provides an opportunity for improving standards and for the maintenance of that solidarity of spirit on which fruitful group effort depends so much. The development of a satisfactory relationship between volunteer and professional social work is one of the genuinely important problems which the no distant future seems ready to require of our leadership. It is the purpose of this paper to indicate why further standardization is imperative.
Meaning of Standardization
Standardization is to social work what machinery is to production. In the welfare field it means the acceptance and use of evolving social work standards in the fields of (1) research (2) personnel (3) administrative machinery (4) methods of work (5) system of record-keeping and (6) use and development of community resources. It will be of profit to observe the process of standardization in the productive field where it has been carried further than anywhere else. Here according to the National Encyclopedia it means "the making of each commodity in units of absolute uniformity in so far as it can be mechanically attained and the reduction of manufacturing processes to a uniformity as nearly perfect as tools, working conditions and men will permit. This has been accomplished by drawing exact specifications, measurements and descriptions of the goods to be produced and by defining exactly the processes and often the motions in production." Standardization in industry is criticized on the ground that without adequate leisure it kills initiative and induces monotony.
Technical Production has Outstripped Other Fields
In only one great field of living has the methods of science and science's god-son, standardization, been taken in, adopted into the family and made extensive use of. This field is technological or machine production. Many times more money and more brains are employed in research in this field than in all the other fields combined." Every large business concern has its technical staff of well paid experts who are cutting down costs and improving processes. Please bear in mind that standardization in machine production took giant strides forward when the three great inventions—the spinning jenny, the power loom and the steam engine made their appearance during the latter half of the 18th century. But while these great inventions opened up the way and started production along a different trail, the process of standardization has gone on steadily since. We are still in the industrial revolution. Effort has been moved from the large to the small. Thousands, tens of thousands, of small parts of the productive process have come under control. As a result an entire floor of a factory can now be operated by a very few people. Standardization in some fields has meant an increase in productive power of a thousand fold. Progress has been faster during the past 15 years than ever before. Today production per capita is represented in the United States by 30 units, China 1 unit, British India 1¼, Italy 2¾, Japan 3¼, Poland 6, Holland 7, France 8¼, Russia 2½, Austria 8¼, Czecho-Slovakia 9, Germany 12, Belgium 16, Great Britain 18, and Canada 20. In America where standardization has progressed farthest production has increased fastest. It is the acceptance and use of standardization as a continuous growth that has meant so great an increase in efficiency in this country.
The Social Fields are Far Behind
What is the social result of this extraordinary development in industry? The result is that the other fields, namely politics and government, religion, recreation, economic organization, education, urban and rural planning, family life, community organization, etc., have fallen very much in the rear in developing the great possibilities that lie inherent and unworked and largely unknown within them. STANDARDIZATION OF WELFARE WORK The result also is social maladjustment and strain between the mores of the different fields which are moving along at greatly different rates of progress. What Happens Without Standards WITHOUT standards everything happens. Good, bad, indifferent, all woven together. Let us consider a few situations. Situation No. 1. Ina certain local area in our state R. F. C. Funds are limited almost entirely to work relief—concerning which of it is adequate I have only words of praise. But in this local district, there were 31 families on the approved list. The amount of work provided during February was so limited that one turn around only was possible. This turn consisted of 3 days work, the pay being $2.00 per day and the total earned for the month being $6.00 for each family. Now if social work means no more than work relief and if work relief means no' more than $6.00 per family for a month, intense suffering is the inevitable result. Comment: Modern life is complex. The maladjustments which are interfering with success may be different in each of the 31 homes. Work relief even if there were enough of it could not bring success to many of these families. Social work must be as varied as the maladjustments which make social work necessary. If R. I'. C. Funds are to be limited to work relief in a locality it is incumbent on that locality to develop a local program of sufficient variety to handle reasonably well the problems encountered in the locality. In this same community is a widow with a boy 15 years old. The boy who should begin to be a support is now out of control. He runs away and has begun to steal. The mother 340 it seems treats him as a baby. -Unable to realize the great changes that have come about in her boy she has failed to adjust to the emerging man. Thwarted and humiliated he runs away. This mother needs help, but it is not primarily money. Situation No. 2. Contrast this with the condition in one of our large counties where it has been discovered during the past month that many have been getting R. F. C. Relief through the county who have had jobs all winter. This serious diffculty appears to arise out of a lack of standards at three points. (1) Untrained workers have been given welfare jobs in considerable numbers, (2) Political appointees have been given jobs as social workers, and (3) Trained case workers have been given such large case loads that it has been utterly impossible to do the work right. Situation No. 3. In a county where the County Commissioners RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE are elected for two or four years without welfare or social work training what happens to the making up of the roll or relief list? Chart No. 1 This chart shows an unwarranted discrimination between towns. While it is true that the poor tend to congregate in particular localities or neighborhoods, most Utah Counties are relatively homogeneous and some of the poor are found in all of them. In this county 8 towns had none of their people on the county roll in 1931, whereas some of the towns were very much over represented. Factors which commonly bring about a mal-distribution on the county poor roll where unstandardized conditions prevail are: (1) home area of county commissioner or county clerk is likely to be favored (2) political hanger-ons get on the list (3) family relatives receive undue consideration (4) a persistent demanding Chart No. 1 County Welfare Expenditures by Towns in ----- County 1951 Towns Receiving aid STANDARDIZATION OF WELFARE WORK voice obtains a place (5) groups who can command votes are often listened to whether their recommendations would bear investigation or not. Now if tabulation were made in this county of the variation of practices with regard to (1) Keeping records of cases (2) Cooperating with other agencies (3) Making use of existing community resources for the benefit of clients or other important practices of good workers, it is the opinion of the writer that probably as wide a variation in practices would be found as is indicated in this chart with respect to number assisted. Situation No. 4. That the bishops are not as yet well enough trained in Social Work to bring about a well standardized roll is obvious from a tabulation based on the number per 100 aided in each ward in the county. Chart No. 2 L. D. S. Bishops do a tremendous amount of unpaid altruistic work. OF WELFARE WORK 341 They therefore have good reason for being the least willing to inform themselves about social work of any of the groups who have major responsibilities in this field. Chart No. 2 indicates the number of families per 1000 population receiving church aid in each of the wards in the county studied. The astonishing extent of variability is evident at once. The range of difference lies between 2.5 families per 1000 and 97.8 per 1000 of population. In the lavish ward 53 families out of a population of 542 were given aid. This means nearly one-half of the people of the ward. In the frugal ward one family only out of a ward population of 406 was given assistance. If the county commissioners are going to rely on the bishops for a satisfactory relief list the information contained in this chart, is not encouraging. Situation No. 5. But that the combined effort of the Relief Societies and of the bishops is nevertheless leavening the social work lump in the localities is clear when we check Chart No. @ Number of Families alded by L. D. S. Ghurch per Ward: in —--- County 1931 ted 2 2 8 Per Thousand — gicet rf Number Families ) & - o 9 i 1 WardsReceiwing Aid 23.24 25 2627 28.09 80 31 3236-34 36 3539 BAY. 342 on the presence of a standardized procedure in adapting efforts to the business cycle. Chart No. 3 This line chart covers the period 1915-1930 and shows total church and total county relief  expenditures for each year. During most of this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE strongly suggests the philosophy that the poor fund is a sort of a residual receptical into which, when times are good and tax receipts large, money flows, and when times are bad and tax receipts small, the stream dries up and help is withheld. Note the sharp decline in 1920 and the relatively low expenditures between Chart No. 3 A Comparison of County and L. D. S. Church Welfare Expenditures in County 1915-1931 35,000 34,000 33,000 32,000 31,000 30, 0007 29,000 L 28,000 27,009 / 26,000 L 25,000  24,000 / County 23,000 / 22,000 VA 21,000 y, 20,000 VA 19,000 18,000 WA 17,000 16,000 15,000 14,000 L. B.3. Church "xpendipure VA NX 13,000 12,000: | 11,000 10,000 LO 9,000 LZ 8,000 | A 7,000 Va 6,000 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 |. 1,000 o! I 1915 16 617 "20 "CY time the county appropriation was more than twice as large as that of the church. The church expenditures, however, were much more consistent. When times were bad, expenditures rose to meet the need, when good times came relief declined. The upper, or county line, 1920-24, all through the depression when the need for assistance was greatest. Note also the astonishing climb upward during the good times between 1924-30. In the absence of developed agencies to do rehabilitation work, this kind of expenditure cannot but promote pauperization. STANDARDIZATION OF WELFARE WORK It would be possible to go on for a long time and point out socially harmful things which result from unstandardized procedure. But I cannot use the important time at my disposal to do this further. Standardised Developments Needed in County Welfare Work wat I want principally to attempt to do is to direct your attention to a few of the major standardized developments — the spinning wheel, the power loom and the steam engine—if you will, of social work standardization which are necessary to a real development of social and community organization within the counties. I shall discuss this matter under the headings: (1) Relationship with politics, (2) Use of research (3) Accessibility of information (4) Acquirement of a case-working agency (5) Sustaining community organizations and (6) Keeping systematic records. 1. Separation from politics. In county welfare work a welfare personnel should be developed which is separated from politics in the narrow sense. The social work field can no more afford to accept of political appointees than can the probation service of the Juvenile Courts. Both probation workers and social workers should have training and skill. I have taken some time in the introductory part of this paper to attempt to tell you why "politics" or the older political methodology was a relatively low grade method of handling social and economic problems. Since our welfare is increasingly dependent on wise solutions of these larger problems, it is more and more important that we minimize politics and strengthen the forces that underly standardization. I helieve we are doing this more 343 rapidly right now in our national government than we have ever done in our history, but in the main our progress is slow. Social work in the counties should be relieved from the painful and discouraging and thwarting experiences which dominance by politicians brings. This release is not an idle dream. In quite a number of places where public interest is enlightened and public spirited men have found their way into responsible positions in the government, social work has been taken out of politics. Cook County made great strides in this direction before the depression. Denver social work has been emancipated for many years. Where the menace of politics is removed and responsibility is centralized, standardization moves along at a rapid pace and the people receive that great blessing—efficient public service—so much needed and yet so infrequently found in our struggling democracy. 2. Research is important. Research is necessary to standardized practice and it must be a continuous process. The Utah Agricultural College has done some work in this field during the past few years. For a great organization like the church it is possible that this work could be done to advantage from within. With enlargement of the work, the Relief Society is doing, a research department of highly trained people with adequate equipment, could perhaps be developed as a part of the work of the Central Relief Society Welfare Department, or as a division of the Presiding Bishop's Office, or perhaps through a close integration with the Church, University, or the Sociology departments of the three Utah colleges. Through research it is possible to integrate the church in its various departments with advancing knowledge 344 in such a way that the people are served adequately in the hour of their need through a growing structure of social organization adapted to 20th century conditions. Strange as it may seem to some of us who have been looking backward so long, it is nevertheless a fact that we are living in the 20th Century even though we are attempting to do so through 18th Century slogans, attitudes, stereotypes and methods. Well developed research —respected, honored, and adequately rewarded—is necessary in a well functioning regime. A central research staff could serve the research needs of the localities. 3. Ready accessibility to information is needed. Standardization requires that machinery be devised so that knowledge of the local situation—essential welfare facts—be made available to those who are doing welfare work in the county. Two lines of development are possible. 1st, If a half-dozen or more local relief organizations are going to carry on relief programs, an exchange for clearing names is necessary. Such an exchange does not need to cost much in a county seat where a welfare department is established or a case worker is employed. A little clerical help and considerable cooperation by the agencies is all that is needed. With clearing machinery available it becomes possible for the different agencies to cooperate by supplying each other with basic information, so that they can operate intelligently themselves and can avoid the grave mistakes that people make who attempt to work at night without a light. It is not too much to say that where a considerable number of agencies are operating an exchange is as important to standardized practice as a head light is to night driving with an automobile.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
A social worker cannot afford to work in the dark. The second possibility in the rural counties where the people are exclusively L. D. S. is for all of the agencies including the county itself to go out of the business of handling welfare work and turn it over entirely to the Relief Societies. This does not mean that the several agencies could not continue to raise funds, but having raised them good results can come only if they are turned over to one organization to plan their expenditure and to formulate a unified program. If one agency does all the work it is not necessary to clear names. If this development were followed it would be necessary for the county to go out of the welfare field much more fully than it has done up to date in any of the counties where the so-called combination plan has been adopted. Let me cite an example. In a combination county the commissioners rule that they will not place anyone on the county roll who has not been recommended by the bishop. In this way they hope to get a good county relief list. Do they get it? Several obstacles stand in the way. 1. Bishops differ, some want a large number of people from their ward on the County list. Other bishops want only a few or none. Again the County Commissioners retain final control for they do not put everyone on who is recommended by a bishop. While on the surface it looks as though the bishops would have considerable say-so as to who goes on, they really have very little control. As a matter of fact, the County roll in the counties where the combination plan is in effect is a very much unstandardized, unsatisfactory roll. The making up of the relief roll whether it be by the County, the ward bishop, or the Relief Society President is a most important thing and should be based on adequate knowledge. This knowledge should include satisfactory information on: (1) income (2) ownership of property including particularly house, garden space and farm (3) indebtedness (unsecured, mortgaged, interest rate and time due, payment obligation, etc.) (4) size of family (number now at work and number available for employment, number of dependents, etc.) (5) location and financial situation of relatives. So if the development takes the form of withdrawal so that all agencies withdraw from administration and direct their financial support to the Relief Societies, it will be necessary for the counties, the bishops, the Elks, the Rotary, Lions, Kiwanis, B. P. W., etc., to withdraw in a much more complete sense than they have yet conceived of, if a unified, standardized program is to be developed. If this is not done there is only one other answer. A county case worker must be employed and some clearing machinery developed if the "spinning jenny" of social work is to be started. 4. Local divisions need a trained case working agency. If we call the social service or confidential exchange the "spinning jenny" of standardized social work, I am going to designate the trained case-working agency the steam engine. Should a rural county have a trained case-worker? I do not see how a rural county is going to get very far with social work standardization if it has no one in it who is adequately trained in this profession. In the older professions of medicine, law and teaching, the state does not allow one to practice without adequate training and an examination to attest minimum knowledge. Now although social work is one of the newer professions and
WELFARE WORK 345
the state has not yet prohibited practice to those who are without minimum training, it is nevertheless true that a profession has arisen and a considerable portion of those who are in it are as highly trained as any in the older professions. The extent to which these trained workers have come into possession of knowledge that is helpful to rural people represents the measure of their desirability. No standardization is possible without knowledge. If trained people are brought in, then we appropriate the developments that have been made elsewhere. When America was settled we brought the civilization of Europe with us and began not at the bottom but on the pinnacle to which the most advanced nations had slowly climbed. If rural people want to hold their own it seems reasonable to say that they must learn to so shape their social organization that the stores of knowledge on which progress depends is open to them. In some lines such as the consolidated school this is being done.
If there are in a county 100 volunteer workers who are spending from 1/10 to ¼ of their time in welfare work; if there is being spent in this county, through all sources from $50,000 to $75,000 a year, it looks reasonable that such a rural county should employ a qualified case worker to join with the volunteer workers in setting up necessary machinery. 5. Community service institutions are necessary. Among the dominant developments which standardization is dependent upon and one which I shall liken to the power loom of the Industrial Revolution, is the development in the local area (in most cases the county) of welfare service institutions on which the social worker relies for help to carry out her program. Among these are hospitals where those who cannot pay may 346 be served—clinics, prenatal, well-baby, pre-school, child-guidance, venereal and tubercular, which carry at minimum expense, to those who stand in need, preventive and curative knowledge—classes for the handicapped—access to institutions for orphaned and dependent children—welfare work in the schools through the school physician, the school nurse and the physical education departments. Some cities have made a great development in this field. Rochester, New York, for instance, employs 20 full time doctors, 40 full time nurses, 31 visiting teachers. In addition special classes for the handicapped are provided and an employment service aids older children who must leave school for work. A local area needs further an efficient Juvenile Court system with a well trained and well developed probation department—a visiting teacher service to assist parents and teachers with problem children—a well managed Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A., Y. M. M. I. A. and the Y. L. M. I. A.—a Boy Scouts unit, 4H Clubs, Future Farmers, all representing community organizations which the well trained social worker can use. But they are also tremendously important to the social worker who must draw heavily on them to assist the family that is sinking down into a financial morass. You see good social work is pretty closely associated with healthy community life. 6. Systematic Record Keeping. Now I want to mention one more item that needs badly to be standardized and that is an adequate system of keeping records of essential data. Record keeping is the waterloo of the volunteer social worker and of the average probation officer and yet adequacy in record keeping is one of the greatest needs in welfare work today. Everywhere planning is dependent on records, and it is in planning that our great hopes for the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
future lie. A 4H Club boy knows that he must keep a record of every item of cost in his project. A competent housewife knows the value of her budget. To a welfare worker, the essential facts about a case represents the foundation on which she begins to build. These facts must be written down. A volunteer worker needs a simpler system than the professional worker. A decided improvement here is greatly needed in rural areas right now. The development requires an increase in efficiency and training on the part of those who keep the records as well as an improvement in the recording system. It is interesting and encouraging to note that the Relief Societies are working hard on this problem and are making commendable progress.
Conclusion
Progress in the counties in welfare work then is dependent on a standardization of the principal basis on which the profession of welfare work has developed. These are: (1) Separation from entangling alliances with politics. (2) Acceptance of and encouragement of research. (3) The development of a satisfactory case working agency. (4) The devising of a uniform system of records and (6) the keeping alive and healthy of community organizations and agencies through which the case worker can supply her clients with the sustenance spiritual and recreational as well as material on which their health as citizens depends. For it is her task and her joy to keep alive and healthy the action springs and the drives, the ideals, and the ambitions, the hopes and the faith which enable one to say in his heart, as he faces the opportunities and the demands of the fast fleeting days—I shall not fail.