Notes from the Field Eastern States Mission
(Jamestown Branch): MEMBERS of the Jamestown Branch of the Eastern States Mission Relief Society gave a very successful social at Maccabee's Hall, March 18, 1933, in celebration of the birthday of the organization. A bountiful and delicious dinner was served from 5:30 to 7 p. m., to 110 people. At 7:30 a program was given, one of the first numbers being a two act drama, "The Organization of the Relief Society in Nauvoo." The characters were taken by members of the Relief Society. Following were several very good readings and musical numbers, also a play, written by one of the Jamestown missionaries, was given by the missionaries of the Jamestown Branch. After the program the floor was cleared for dancing, which was enjoyed by young and old. Everyone present pronounced the social a success in every way. The Jamestown Branch of the Relief Society has eleven members, who work together in love and harmony for the advancement of the Kingdom of God, in the entertainments and in the charity work of the organization. Tahitian Mission: SISTER MARGUERITE S&S. BURBIDGE, president of the Tahitian Mission Relief Societies, writes: "I desire to report that we held our Relief Society Conference here in Papeete on Thursday, April 6, 1933. We had a very enjoyable meeting. There were representatives from eight districts and they all made reports of their various branches and the work being done JAMESTOWN RELIEF SOCIETY CELEBRATES WITH DRAMA NOTES FROM THE FIELD by the sisters, which is very commendable. We had a program, which was given by the sisters of the Papeete Branch, and everyone seemed pleased and happy. After the meeting, the sisters were served with lunch. They were all seated at a long table which was very prettily decorated in pink and green, with little pink baskets as favors. In the evening the Papeete Relief Society presented a little play, "The Miracle,' to a crowded house. Everyone who saw it thought it was very good, and we felt very much satisfied with our part of the Conference. The sisters are doing a good work here, although they are. Handicapped in many ways." 379 the spirits of the sisters in the arduous experiences of the present day. The Roseville Society is but a small branch in the California Mission, but its officers are imbued with the real Relief Society spirit. St. Joseph Stake: FROM St. Joseph Stake comes the sad news of the passing of another one of the beloved Relief Society sisters. In the language of her co-workers: A death that has caused deep regret and sorrow throughout the valley was that of Mrs. Inez H. Lee, who passed away at her home in Thatcher, Arizona, March 4, 1933. Well known in ROSEVILLE BRANCII, CALIFORNIA MISSION California Mission (Roseville Branch): AN interesting account of a celebration held in the Roseville Branch of the California Mission, came to the Relief Society office. The above picture shows the cast. The account of these activities shows the interest of our Relief Society women everywhere, and the social spirit does much to keep alive religious, educational, civic and political circles throughout the state, she had a host of friends to whom her death came as a great shock. Funeral services were held in the L. D. S. Chapel in Thatcher. The large auditorium was filled to capacity with relatives and friends who had gathered to pay a last tribute to one, who through her kindly deeds and splendid character had 380 endeared herself to them to the extent that they lovingly called her Aunt Inez." At the time of her death she was the librarian of the Gila Junior College at Thatcher, a position she had held for six years, also Literary Class Leader of the Thatcher Ward Relief Society." San Francisco Stake (Diamond Ward): MARCH 17, 1933, was fittingly observed by the San |*rancisco Stake. The happy event was held in the Diamond Ward Chapel, at 8 p. M. The great diversity of the program offered showed the extent of the talent which comes to the support of Relief Society in all its projects. Following the address of welcome an orchestral number was presented by twelve of the Relief Society sisters in pantomume. An interesting feature was a reading by Sister Pamela RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of the Diamond Ward Relief Society. She is 78 years old. This was followed by community singing, a skit, "Two Knights of the Road," and the singing of a Scotch song, a ne " was presented in pantomime. A Kangaroo Court, conducted with all the formality of a real session, was the source of much amusement. Dancing of old-time dances concluded the program, after which refreshments were served. The party, in which the spirit of merriment prevailed, the fancy dresses and the other elements of comedy did much to heighten the spirits of the group. Not a little amusement was created by the exchange of packages. Fach person was supposed to present a_ parcel and receive one in exchange, the contents of which created much fun. The Society felt that the party had been a most successful one, and had done much to dissipate the gloom Bassett, who is the oldest member of the past Winter. Magazine Day SISTER LUCY H. ADAMS of Lovell, Wyoming sends in word that they set aside one day for magazine day and that a special program was given during work meeting consisting of an original play, song, and stunt. On that day 26 subscriptions were handed in. The song written by Elder John C. Hawston and which they sing occasionally is: The Relief Society Magazine Onward gentle messenger—full of helpful cheer. Onward gentle messenger—full of helpful cheer, In a cause that's sacred, in a work _ that's dear. Every month there's comfort in your pages found, As we help the needy; Encourage the home bound, helpful cheer In a cause that's sacred; that's dear. As you enter sick rooms; By the discouraged read New hope thus is kindled, hungry spirits fed. In a work Onward gentle messenger—full of helpful cheer. In a cause that's sacred; that's dear. Everywhere there's sorrow; You must do your part Lift the overburdened—A balm to every heart. In a work The first two lines repeated for chorus. To be sung to the tune of "Onward, Christian Soldiers." Notes to WE are delighted to hear from Sister La Rene King Bleecker how much the sisters of the Ogden Second Ward are enjoying our magazine. She says "A new appreciation of literature seems to be prevthe Field alent in our association. Many have expressed the thought that we are acquiring our belated college educations through the medium of our magazine and the unusually fine lessons in all departments. Annual Day QuR annual, March 17, was most fittingly observed throughout the Church and happy celebrations seemed to be the order of the day. We attended one ward where every care was forgotten, although that very day the dead had been prepared for burial and nursing had been done in a number of distressed homes by these women. We commend the faith and buoyant spirits of the sisters for maintaining a wholesome attitude ieee all the difficult scenes of ife.. Ward Conferences OUR ward conferences are drawing to a close and we feel a great deal of good has been accomplished by getting our work before the people. The bishops tells us the Relief Society Conference is one of the best attended and most pleasing meetings of the year and great admiration is shown for the ability of the presiding officers. The singing done entirely by the members of the society is a very pleasing feature, and we feel a generous attitude is taken by the choir leader and the members to allow us this privilege once a year. In most conferences the stake officers have outlined a most commendable outline in connection with the outline of the General Board which shows thought and ability. Looking Hopefully Forward OD has not given us fore-knowledge but something far beter, hope," Pres. Anthon H. Lund. Our Happiness depends to a great extent on whether we look hopefully forward or whether we let despondency or foreboding depress us. While some, like Wilkins Micawber, carry this hopefulness too far and expect something to turn up without self effort, yet even such people radiate a better influence than do those who are always forecasting disasters, more trouble, worse conditions. There is a great difference between facing the facts, looking forward hopefully, working with a cheerful face, and an optimistic heart and drifting good naturedly with the tide, letting it bear one where it will. "God governs man through tae regency of hope." THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOARD MRS. LOUISE YATES BI MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN MRS. JULIA ALLEMAN CHILD President F irst Counselor Second Counselor MRS. JULIA A. F. LUND - - - - - General Secretary and Treasurer Mrs. Emma A. Empey Mrs. Amy Whipple Evans Mrs. Ida P. Beal Miss Sarah M. McLelland Mry, Ethel Reynolds Smith Mrs. Katie M. Barker Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Rosannah C, Irvine Mrs. Marcia K. Howells Mrs. Jennie B. Knight Mrs. Nettie D. Bradford Mrs. Hazel H. Greenwood Mrs. Lalene H, Hart Mrs. Inez K. Allen Mrs. Emeline Y. Nebeker Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Elise B. Alder Mrs, Mary Connelly Kimball Mrs. Cora L. Bennion RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor Manager - - Assistant Manager - - -: Mary Connelly KIMBALL Louise Y. Rosison Amy Brown Lyman