Think on These Things my Urte a number of years ago Alfred Russel Wallace on his ninety-second birthday was asked "What is wrong with the world?' He replied, "This is the fundamental weakness; our knowledge, our science has outstripped our moral. Development. We have become possessed of greater forces than we are morally fit to use. We have not sufficient self-control or good will to use these gigantic physical energies for the well being of mankind and are daily turning them into weapons of self-destruction." Later the New York Times asked 'a number of scientists the same question and their replies embodied the same thought. Today a great engineer says "Man is epochly unprepared for the bounty which the cornucopia of the engineers has shaken over the earth. He surveys ~'a scene of plenty and yet sees many 'going hungry. He hopes the prodigal: at the. Wheel can learn to manage himself, lest he be crushed by the machinery of material progress." A. Philosopher-historian, sorrowing over the inoral slump into which we have fallen tells us that it is of no avail to "lift our curses against the sky because we can only raise the common level as each citizen raises his own." Sir Alfred Ewing, president of the British Association for the Advancement of Science confronted by a series of preplexities and frustrations feels now at the age of 77 as "one who has come a long way and taken the wrong turning." Long an exponent of applied sciences he is now disillusioned by "the sweeping pageant of discovery and invention in which he used to take unbounded delight." He says: "It is impossible not to ask, whither does this tremendous procession tend? What, after all is its goal? What is the probable influence on the future of the human race? The engineers have dowered 384 us with 'previously unpossest and unimagined capacities and powers. Beyond question many of these gifts are benefits to man, making life fuller, wider, healthier, richer in comforts and interests and in such happiness as material things can promote.' "' Every man desires for such spiritual betterment as will qualify him to use the leisure he has won through the machine age. In order to do this Sir Alfred says he must first learn "to command himself." James Truslow Adams thinks two of the chief causes of moral collapse which has accompanied our economic debacle are lack of knowledge and lack of character. He says: "As part of the development of character we have got to place a higher value on other things in life than money and standards of living. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In countless homes in America today there must be going on a serious questioning of what it is that makes life worth while, and what is reallv worth striving for. My own opinion is that there are plenty of us who are getting fed up with the philosophy of life of the past decade and with the position which our country occupies, with its crime, its lawlessness, its disgraceful politics, its abandonment of ideals, its loss of prestige and honor abroad and at home. * ok OK "There is no use in railing at America, or expecting her to take her proper position in the world, unless each of us as citizens makes an effort to make his own life worth while on the basis of values which are not wholly material. The nation can not transcend the level of its citizens."