Friendliness
A TINY mite of a girl huddled against a lamp post in the poorest district of the large city. The narrow streets, black alleys, dark dirty buildings, the foul smells of unclean human beings living too closely together, the shrill voice of an angry woman screaming to her children, a drunken man staggering into an open doorway, made a picture of the unfriendly atmosphere in which the youngster lived. With her hair hanging in disorderly strings on her moist forehead, her clothes ragged and grimy, her skinny arms and legs showing signs of recent beatings, the product of this environment was a most forlorn little person. Her face was wan and frightened, as though she expected at any moment to be yelled at, or kicked, or driven to a task much too difficult for her young body. At the sound of a kind voice, the child raised her troubled grey eyes to look into the smiling face of a clean-appearing boy about six years her senior. "What's the matter, kid? Somebody been mean to you?" Fearing that anything she might do or say would occasion a sharp rebuke or even a beating, the child made no sound. The boy took her tiny hand gently in his, saying, "Ah, don't be afraid. I won't hurt you." With a sparkle in his eye, he joyfully added, "Say! How'd you like to play with Spotty here?" The grey eyes, moving in the direction indicated by the boy's free hand, saw a small stubby-tailed dog frisking in the street. "Hi! Spot! Come 'ere!" As the dog bounded toward his young playfellow, a faint smile began to play in the grey eyes of the tiny girl. "Come on, kid. Don't be scared. See, pat him like this." Under the boy's kind encouragement and careful guidance the child's tiny hand went back and forth in little pats on the dog's head and back. Becoming more and more happy and less and less frightened every moment, the tot finally picked up the small dog, holding it tightly in her skinny arms. The happy laugh of the wee girl and the delighted wiggle of the dog's tail would have pleased the heart of the most calloused observer.