[Vol8 | March 1921 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Editorial | Title: Editorial If I were a Relief Society Teacher]

EDITORIAL   THE GENERAL BOARD ) Mrs. EmMetine ZB. WELLs -: - - - - - President Mrs. Crarissa S, WILLIAMS: -:::: First Counselor Mrs. Jurina L. Smiru - - - - - - + Second Counselor Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman - - - -: - General Secretary Mrs. Susa Youns Gates: - - - - Corresponding Secretary Mrs. Emma A, Empey - - - - - - General Treasurer Mrs. Sarah Jenne Cannon -Mrs. Carrie S. Thomas Mrs. Janette A. Hyde Dr. Romania B. Penrose Mrs. Elizabeth S. Wilcox Miss Sarah Eddington Mrs. Emily S. Richards Mrs. Rebecca Niebaur Nibley Miss Lillian Cameron Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth Mrs. Elizabeth C. McCune Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie Miss Sarah McLelland Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon Mrs. Ida S. Dusenberry Mrs. Elizabeth C. Crismon Miss Edna Coray, Organis RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -: - - - - - -: Susa Youne Gates Business Manager - - - - - - - 'Janette A. Hype Assistant Manager - - -:: - - Amy Brown Lyman Room 29, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director t 


  IF I WERE A RELIEF SOCIETY TEACHER of Gilead. We all long for encouragement. We are all so desperately afraid that we have done some one thing or left undone some forting to hear some one say, we do this well or we wisely left that undone. 
 A wise woman who had many dear and adoring friends once was asked how she kept her friends so long, and she replied: "1 don't make a virtue of telling my friends their faults. If I go to see a new-born child who has ugly ears but a sweet little mouth, I tell the mother about the mouth and don't mention the ears. She sees what I see, anyway. So with my friends. I am not called upon to reform them. I love them for what they are, not for what they ought or might be." Some people have so cultivated the art of saying disagreeable things that they can never be agreeable. They fancy themselves as being what they call ''frank and honest." But they see only people's ugly points, never their praiseworthy ones. Asa great writer; puts it: "There are those who from long disuse have lost the power of kindly, human speech." The Lord deliver us from Relief Society teachers of this nature! We can all minister as understanding Relief Society teachers, if we will train ourselves first to speak kindly words to our every-day associates in the home. You know many wives forget ever to say a word of praise or encouragement to their overworked husbands. If men do ill, or neglect us, we hurry to tell them so, frankly and fully. But if they offer a bit of help in our housework, or when they are dressed up for Church, and we note their clean gentlemanly appearance, we keep still and say nothing. We are so stingy with our encouragement. When you go out teaching in the good old-fashioned way, you dear old-fashioned sisters, you just carry with you a few encouraging words; for instance, notice about the flowers in the window, the healthy-looking children, the clean home, the excellent cooking, the faithful attendance at meeting, the inspiring testimony given by the husband or wife at the last fast meeting; and above all, carry with you all the "trade-lasts" as the children call them, you have heard about your hostesses' children. We would rather hear good things about over husbands and children than about ourselves. Then, pass on such words of encouragement, as you go from door to door. Above all, remember there is a vitality, a principle of life, in the very speech that we utter when talking on any of the principles of the gospel. A word of testimony, a reference to fulfillment of prophecy, a faith-promoting 'incident, an assurance that the Lord notices and rewards our faithfulness in our home and Relief Society duties, all these fall on the tired spirit and burdened soul of a mother like the precious "dew upon Mount Hermon." Garnish your visits with such pearls of wisdom and sympathy, dear Relief Society teachers, and you will be loved and welcomed in every home in Zion. Guide Lessons for May LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in May.) SALVATION FOR THE LIVING AND DEAD. (Baptism) Baptism is the ordinance required to admit believers into most of the Christian Churches. It is a symbol of the death and resurrection of the Savior. The candidate is buried in the water in "likeness" of Christ's burial in the tomb, then is raised up out of the water, in likeness of his resurrection. The baptism is performed by another person which symbolizes the vicarious nature of the ordinance, and the divine sacrifice of which it is a type or symbol. That is, a man may not properly go down in the water and get down under it and then rise out of it alone; nor can he possibly hope to save himself without divine assistance. We depend for salvation entirely on the vicarious help extended to us by our Savior's dying to save us. Again, the ordinance, howsoever perfectly performed, would be useless unless it were administered by a man holding the priesthood, which is the power of God to administer in the ordinances of the gospel. The actual words used by the Christian sects are almost exactly like those used in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints, with one fundamental difference, which we will note later. Much of religion, and, indeed, all mental life is interpreted or made plain to our senses by the means of symbols. We use _ a set of symbolic sounds grouped together as words, which convey a thought from mind to mind, or a thought "from me to you," as it were. We group a set of symbols on a page of paper and call them words and sentences. We shake hands, with the right hands, as a symbol of friendship; this is a survival of the oriental custom, for if the Arab offered his right or sword hand, it betokened that the defense of his sword went with it. All civil forms and ceremonies are symbols. 'Oaths of office, etc., are all taken in symbols, and symbollically expressed principles. Faith and repentance are accepted by all Christian religions as fundamental principles. How shall we show our faith and manifest our repentance to God? The Savior, himself, left 
 Explicit instructions on that point. He indicated his own faith by obedience to the first ordinance of the gospel, by presenting himself to his cousin John, the Baptist, for baptism. The Christian world pretty generally accept baptism, the Catholics, Episcopalians, Presbyterians and Baptists making it obligatory for the candidate, although the Baptists do not believe in the baptism of infants, nor in sprinkling. Other sects, usually allow the candidate to choose it or not?as it is considered by them only "an outward sign of an inward grace." Yet most of them, except the Baptists, believe in baptism by sprinkling, or by pouring water on the candidates. Some form of baptism has been practiced from very ancient times. The word itself means immersion. The Jews have practiced baptism from the earliest times. Many allusions are found in the Old Testament, while it is generally conceded that John the Baptist was not introducing any new rite or ordinance when he went out to the river Jordan to baptize. See Psalms 51:82. Isaiah 1:2-18, Zech. 13:16. Acts 22:16. Read about the great Sea of Brass or font built in Solomon's temple from which our own fonts in our temples are modelled: I Kings 7:23-26, 39, 44: II Chron. 4:2, 5, 9, 10. Tertullian, the ancient historian, in his tract on baptism (155-222 A. D.) refers to ancient Egyptians, worshipers of Isis, who were initiated "through a font." Again he speaks of Greeks ''who were baptized into the mysteries of Apollo, and Eleusis." "Any one of the ancients," he adds, "anyone who had stained himself with homicide went in search of waters that could purify his guilt." Justin Martyr who lived between 90-120 A. D. In his Teachings of the Apostles gives the following form: "Baptize in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. In living water, but if thou hast not living water, baptize into other water; if thou canst not in cold, then in warm, but if thou hast not either, pour water upon the head thrice in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit." (Note the changing of the ordinance even this early in the Church's history, as shown in that last sentence.) Justin Martyr further says: "The candidate went into the font quite naked, he fasted for one or two days, as did his sponsor. Bishops, priests and deacons officiated." "After the candidate came out of the water they breathed upon him to exorcise devils, gave him milk, honey and salt as symbols, then anointed him all over with oil, touched his ears, lips and nose, with the ceremony of words attached. They clothed hiny in a white robe, and gave him a new name." GUIDE LESSONS. 175 These quotations are from the article on Baptism in the British Encyclopedia. Not until the third century was sprinkling and pouring introduced. The Church of Tyre, as described by Eusebius, had a font, and the Bishop of Jerus, in 330, ordered the font to be placed in the same building as the altar, "behind it, and on the right hand." Both the Catholic and Episcopalican articles say: "The priest is the ordinary minister of Baptism; but in case of necessity any one who has the use of reason may baptize." Let us give the story of baptism among the Catholics, as told by their own authors. We find it in What The World Believes, Chapter 17, page 281; this book contains accounts of the beliefs and ceremonies of ancient and modern churches, the articles for which were prepared by prominent representatives of the church so described; Elder Franklin D. Richards, of the Council of the Twelve, wrote our own chapter: In the Roman Catholic church chapter occurs the following: BAPTISM. "The sacrament of baptism is defined by the Church as one instituted by Jesus Christ, in order to wash away original sin, and all those actual ones which may have been committed; to communicate to mankind the spiritual regeneration and grace of Jesus Christ; and to unite them as living members to their head. The most essential part of the ceremony of baptism in the Catholic Church is as follows: At the church door the priest first asks the godfather and godmother what child they present to the Church whether or no they are its true godfather and godmother? If they be resolved to live and die in the true Catholic and Apostolic faith? And what name they intend to give it? All profane names, as those of the heathens and their gods, must be rejected. After the usual questions have been asked, the priest makes an exhortation to the godfather and godmother, with regard to the devotion which ought to accompany the whole performance. The exhortation being ended, the priest continues the ceremony; and calling the child by the name that is to be given it, asks it as follows: What dost thou demand of the church? To which the godfather answers, Faith. The priest adds, What is the fruit of faith? The godfather answers, Eterna life. The priest continues, if you are desirous of obtaining eternal life, keep: God's commandments: Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, etc. After which he breathes three times upon the child's face, and at the same time says, Depart from the child, thou evil spirit, and make room for the Holy Ghost. This being done, with the thumb of his right hand he makes a cross on the child's forehead, and afterwards another on its breast, pronouncing these words: Receive the sign of the cross on thy forehead, and in thine heart. Whereupon he takes off his cap, repeats a short prayer, and laying his hand gently on the child's head, prays for him a second time. This second prayer being ended, the priest blesses the salt in case it was not blessed before; which being done, he takes a little of it, puts it into the - 
 Child's mouth, pronouncing these words: Receive the salt of wisdom. He then repeats a third prayer; after which he puts on his cap, and exorcises the Prince of Darkness, commanding him to come forth out of him who is going to be baptized. At the end of the exorcism he again makes the sign of the cross on the child's forehead, lays his hand on its head, and repeats another prayer. After this fourth prayer, the priest lays the end of the stole upon the child, and admits it into the Church. The godfather and godmother enter at the same time, and repeat with the priest the Apostles' Creed and the Lord's Prayer, as they advance towards the font, which having reached, the priest exorcises the devil once again, and after the exorcism, takes saliva from his mouth with the thumb of his right hand. With this he rubs the child's ears and nostrils, and as he touches his right ear, repeats a Hebrew word, "Ephphetha," which signifies "Be thou opened;" the same which Jesus Christ said to the man who was born deaf and dumb. The priest then asks whether he renounces the devil and all his works, the pomps, etc. The godfather answers in the affirmative. The priest then anoints the child between the shoulders, in the form of a cross, and after that lays aside his violet stole, and puts on a white one; when the child is again questioned with respect to his belief, to which the godfather makes suitable answers in his name. These preliminaries being ended, the priest takes some of the baptismal water, which he pours thrice on the child's head in the form of a cross, and as he pours it, says, "I baptize thee, in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost," taking care to pour the water at the same time that he pronounces the words, This being done, he anoints the top of the child's head with the crism, in the form of a cross, lays a piece of white linen upon its head, to represent the white garment mentioned in Scripture, and puts a lighted taper into the child's hand, or into that of the godfather. The form for baptizing adults is longer and more imposing. Both the Catholics and the Episcopalians allow laymen and even women to baptize "in cases of necessity." The Protestant churches permit only the clergy to baptize. The Greek Catholic Church, which is practically the same as the Russian Catholic Church, practices the same form of baptismal ceremony with this exception: They dip the infant three times in a little font of warm water, instead of sprinkling him, or pouring water on him. The Greeks rebaptize all Latins, who are admitted into their communion, and they do not baptize children until they are 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, and even sometimes 18 years of age. When the priest marks the sign of the cross on the forehead of the child, it is styled he "puts the seal upon the infant." The baptismal water is not only warmed, it is also perfumed with flowers, and while it is warming, the priest sanctifies it with a prayer, breaths upon it, and then pours oil into it, and it is with this oil which floats on top, that the child is anointed. In the Russian Church, the infant is baptized almost as soon as it comes into the world. The rest of the ceremonies are very much like the Greek and Roman ceremonies. When the priests puts the grain of salt into the infant's mouth, and GUIDE LESSONS. 177 anoints him several times in the form of a cross, he calls this ceremony a confirmation. Then he puts on a clean shirt saying, "Thou art now as clean as this shirt, and purified from the stain of original sin." To conclude the ceremony, a little gold or silver cross is hung about the infant's neck, as a badge or token of baptism. He wears this as long as he lives and carries this to his grave. The picture of some Saint is added to the cross, who has been appointed by the priest to be the child's guardian and protector, and the god-parents are told to teach the child to have a peculiar respect and veneration to his patron saint. The Episcopal form of baptism, requires two godfathers and one godmother for a male child, and two godmothers and on? godfather for a female child. The procession is not made by the priest at the church door, as is the case with the Catholic Church, but the child is presented at the font, and the godparents are asked about the same questions as are asked by the Catholic priest, and the Episcopal minister then exhorts the people to pray, and he says two prayers for the child. He next reads the tenth chapter of Mark, from the thirteenth verse on, and prays again. He instructs the godfathers and godmothers in their duties, receives their renunciation of the devil, in behalf of the child, and repeats with them the Profession of Faith. More prayers follow, and then the priest takes the child into his hands and baptizes him with the same ceremony used by the Catholic Church; namely, "I baptize thee in the name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Spirit." Then the minister signs the child with the cross (this may be omitted if requested by the parents) repeats the Lord's prayer, then for the last time commits charges to the godfathers and godmothers. The Episcopal Church, like the Catholics, give this peculiar instruction: "The Priest is the ordinary minister of baptism; but in case of necessity any one who has the use of reason may baptize." (From Catechism of Christian Doctrine, approved by Cardinal Gibbon, 6 April, 1885, published, in Chicago, by Benziger Brothers, Printers to the Holy Sect.) On page 424 in What the World Believes; we \earn: The Presbyterian church, which is Calvanistic in all its creeds and forms, announces that: "Baptism in this church is practiced by none but ministers, who do it by sprinkling; and whether performed in private or public, it is almost always preceded by a sermon." The Presbyterian church rejects godfathers and godmothers, as unauthorized and inconsistent. Parents are accepted as the soul sponsors of the child. The actual words used are exactly 
 The same as those used by the Catholic and Episcopalian churches. There is no exorcism of the devil nor signing with the cross upon the child's head, or body, and as the minister pronounces the words, he sprinkles the water on the face of the child without adding any further ceremony. The whole is concluded with a prayer. The Methodists follow the Presbyterians largely, especially in baptismal forms. The Congregationalists accept practically the same comparatively simple forms, and ceremonies, as do the other Protestant churches, but they do not always practice baptism, yet always, before adults are baptized into any of these churches, a catechism is committed to memory by the 'candidate, and the pastor questions the candidate or his sponsor in regard to the "Westminster Confession of Faith." The Unitarians who are an outgrowth of the Congregationalists, dissent from Calvinism and assert that the "Holy God is only One, not Three." In other words they deny the divine birth of Jesus Christ, worshipp9ing a God, as the only person in the Godhead. Universalists, are rather a combination of the Unitarians and Congregationalists. They do not hold any strict rules concerning forms and creeds. The Baptists are exceedingly liberal, if not rather loose, in their organization in these modern times and have varied differences "in practice. They maintain, however, a firm adherence to baptism by immersion and reject infant baptism. Roger Williams founded the church in America, (1639) and then left it, as he became convinced "that it was presumptuous for any man or company of men to undertake, the restoration of the true apostolic church without a special divine commission," (British Encyclopedia). Later there was a schism on the matter of confirmation or laying on of hands which was finally rejected. The Lord revealed to the Prophet Joseph Smith the simple form and manner of baptism, the words to be used, and above all, the Lord taught him that children who could not understand the reason for baptism, and because of very extreme youth, should not partake of that sacred rite. The Book of Mormon clearly indicates this through the teachings of Moroni. (Moroni 8:10-24.) The Savior taught the Nephites exactly how and whom to baptize. Read III Nephi, 11:25. Now, as to the words used in this symbolic ordinance. Most Christian sects, Catholics and Protestants, use the form found in the Book of Common Prayer. After questioning the sponsors, or godparents, the minister repeats a set form of address and set prayers, and at the last he uses this form of words: