[Vol8 | March 1921 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field]

Notes from the Field. California Mission A Relief Society Mission Board has been recently appointed to assist Mrs. Louisa W. Jones, president of the organization. It has been evident for some time that the increased work in the society is too heavy for one person. Mrs. Jones will therefore be assisted by the following board: Mrs. Amanda Forbes Done, secretary; Mrs. Lillie T. Freeze, Mrs. Kate Romney Stewart, and Mrs. Margaret T. Miller. Mrs. Jones is arranging to hold three-day conventions in each of the conferences of the mission: Tuscon, Arizona, Los Angeles, and San Francisco, California. The Sunday Schools and the Mutual Improvement Associations will join with the Relief Society in the conventious, where religious and social welfare problems will be discussed. Northern States Mission Mrs. Emily Whitney Smith, president of the Northern States mission Relief Society, has selected two of the mission- -ary girls to serve as aids to her in the Relief Society work. These ladies are Miss Bertha Thurgood, of West Point, Utah, and Gertrude Miles, of Smithfield, Utah. European Mission Aintab, Syria, Turkey. The following letter was recently received by President Emmeline B. Wells, from the Relief Society women of Aintah, Turkey. "Dear Sisters in the gospel: We have not heard from you for a long time, and we are somewhat disheartened, but yet we thank the Lord that we have been found worthy to hear the gospel in this world and accept the same, We think of you sisters continuously, and even if we do not meet in this life and see each other, face to face, we have the assurance that we shall meet in the Millennium. We thank the Lord that even though we are amidst great trials and tribulation, he has delivered us from many afflictions. We have been © blessed with faith-and for this blessing we are extremely thankful. Our condition at present is such that only we who have seen can make a person appreciative. Hunger, nakedness, and want are everywhere. We do not feel to burden you with our troubles, but ask you to remember us in your prayers to the One on high. We remain, your faithful sisters in the gospel." This letter was signed by twenty-four members of the Relief Society, who, with their fellow countrymen, are no doubt undergoing Canadian Mission Mrs. Harriet Westmancopepresident of the Relief Society in Toronto, Canada, was an English convert. One evening if the year of 1907, in'the city of Cheltenham, England, two young "Mormon" elders were conducting 4 street meeting. Mrs. West mancope, at 4 distance, WS greatly impressed with the remarks n 5 as sh approac e them she char y their humble, sober manner and lmressed the truth which they declare decided imme diately tha they wet aching the true gosPe Sh snvited the jders to all at home where she receive! M kindly, and rea their {jrerature with eagerne s w m hs later, N Westmancope tized and immigrate Toronto, nada, where she has been a very activ embet of the branch; da fait ful worker 1! Relief Society South Davis Stake A very success ul affair, both socially and sinancially, was the bazaar given in the Centerville Second. Ward, December ade rugs; childre v6 underwear, apron, dresses, an ny other ueful thing After expenses paid, sum © 250 was realized 200 from the sale, and $90 contributed py the Bishopric in the gorm of 2 liberty b ad. The proceeds of eer ond. Tainment will be give" to the ward to help pay expenses of the e. Mrs. Maggie Grant, of the West Bountiful ward, who is now g7 years old, has made and furnished the sacrament pread for this ward for AQ years, without missing 4 single Sunday. She says she will continue to do this as jong as she can stand up and @ Following is the program of the Relief Society ward con ferences peing held in the Jdaho stake: Book of Mormon lesson, by ward member 5 Vocal music, by ward member; Address, prayer, py stake poard member 5 Address, chaperonag® by stake 
 Board member; Singing, ward choir; Benediction, Relief Society member. Panguitch Stake A union meeting or district convention has just been held, with the two Panguitch wards, and the Hatch ward participating. This is the first district convention held in this stake since the stake was divided. Due to the great distance between wards, it is not feasible to hold union meetings, and these district conventions are arranged to take the place of stake union meetings. The program for the convention held January 20, follows: Address of welcome, Counselor Matilda Sargent; Theology lesson, Miss Brenda Worthen, returned missionary; Anti-tobacco campaign, President John Henrie; Literary lesson, L. D. S. Hymns and their authors, Maria L. Heyward; Reading, by Louisa Prince; Talk, Bishop Hans P. Ipson. Afternoon session, Opening remarks, Leroy Porter; Talk on social service, Elder John F. Crosby; Evils of tobacco, Fred G. Gardiner; Evils in social life, Benjamin Cameron; Reading, Martha E.. Church; Historical outline of the Hatch ward, Louie Porter; Benefits derived from convention, Sarah D. Syrett; the program was interspersed by musical numbers. The attendance at the convention was very good, many of the brethren, being present. St. George Stake The Relief Society women of Hurricane Utah, gave a surprise party on Mrs. Mary Jane Weeks, wife of Dr. Oredy Weeks, on her 80th birthday. A very enjoyable program was given, including the reading of some original verses for the occasion, by Mrs. Lydia M. Covington. After the Program, delicious refreshments were served. Malad Stake In Malad, Idaho, under the direction of the Social Advisory Committee, a new moving picture machine has been installed and free moving picture shows are being given. Socials are also frequently held consisting of dancing and games. These activities are all supervised by the committee, and are very popular in the community. St. Joseph Stake At a union meeting of stake and local officers, held in December, the following program was given: Opening exercises, roll call, minutes. How to give current events, Henrietta T. Nash; Current events, a demonstration, by Ethel D. Payne; In- NOTES FROM THE FIELD. 160 structions to Magazine agents, Annie H. Layton; Teachers' subjects for January, Matthew, chapter 5:14, 15, 16, Leola Marshall; Duties of presidents Adelia Tyler; A discussion of the literary and social service lessons for the month. Welfare Work The No-Tobacco League of Idaho: An organization known as the No-Tobacco League of Idaho has been formed with Mrs. S. F. Parkinson, of Rexburg, as president. Seven counties in Idaho are affiliated, and headquarters have been established at Rexburg, Idaho. The movement is non-sectarian and seeks the support of all who are opposed to the tobacco habit. The present tobacco laws of Idaho, prohibiting the non-use and non-sale of tobacco in any form by and to minors, are being strictly enforced. Many minors have already been taken before the judge for violation of the laws. The league is now working first for an anticigarette law, and the prohibition of advertising tobacco in papers and magazines published in the state, on signs, posters, bill boards, display windows, motion pictures, theatres etc. Second, for high license to business men who sell tobacco in any form. Third, for the prohibition of smoking in public places, except places designated for that purpose. Public Health Through the "Survey," for December, we learn of a movement instituted by certain broad-minded persons in Boston in the interest of department store hygiene. An appeal was made by these merchants to the Harvard Medical School to study health conditions in stores. A survey was begun with a five-year budget under the supervision of the Harvard Industrial Hygiene Division, supported by twenty-five contributing stores, nineteen in Boston and six in other cities. The work was started December 1, 1919. They began wth a complete sanitary survey of each store, including the building, the organization the personnel, the present medical service, and the social welfare or mutual aid work. Recommendations were then made to suit the needs of each store. A statement was made in the beginning that this work was inaugurated in the interest of increased production for the stores. Department store medical problems include, first, environment of the worker; second, fitting the worker to suitable work; third, medical care and health education for the worker. Mr. Davis, author of the article says, "Absenteeism and, lost time are commonly due to illness, and are large losses to any store. Health is not only an asset to the individual, but capital to the business. IIIness, in such a closely coordinated organ- 
 Ization, is a serious loss. Good humor and good manners result from good health, good habit, and good morals. The public is sensitive to good salesmanship. To be met by a cheerful, healthy, intelligent sales person, who ascertains your need and quickly supplies it, creates in you the sub-conscious state of satisfaction, which brings you back again to that store. Any progressive merchant realizes that the success of his: business depends largely upon the health of his employees." Under the plan, store buildings must be sanitary. Attention must be given to ventilation, heat, light, proper seating, proper luncheon facilities, wash rooms, toilets drinking water, towels etc. Mr. Davis calls attention to the fact that most people have at least, slight disabilities, and to place such people where their earning capacity is greatest and their usefulness may be prolonged, is a problem requiring judment, tact, and skill. In each store there is a physician in constant attendance, and one or more nurses. The absent employee, suspected of illness, is visited by the store nurse, who reports cases to the doctor. The cost of free examination and such health service, is estimated at $7 to $10 annually, per employee, and it is claimed that any store can afford to give this service. In summing up, Mr. Davis says: "The Harvard Mercantile Health Work plans to develop health departments for mercantile establishments, where the new employee may be examined and advised with regard to his or her physical condition. Every provision will be made to keep that worker fit, an to insure suitable care if illness should come. All this is done on the frank basis of increased production. Such increased prodution, clearly demonstrated to the employer, should justify him to his stockholders in, financing the health program." Rehabilitation of Disabled Warriors. To all former service men, with major amputations, the federal board is offering a highly specialized training in any line they wish to follow, under the direction of experts, and in a group organized for the special benefit of men with disabilities of this character. This opportunity is given these men in addition to their regular compensation. The aim of the board is twofold: First, to insure for them a normal and happy life, as an active, producing individual, and, second, for the sake of the community at large to place these men on a real producing basis. Nearly every man whatever his disability, can, by proper training and education, be put back into the general scheme of things as a real man with a real place in the world.