[Vol7 | March 1920 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: The Official Round Table]

THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE

Women Will Celebrate Golden Jubilee
Marking Fiftieth Anniversary of Suffrage in Utah.

Fifty years ago, on the 12th day of February, 1870, the law granting suffrage to women was passed in the Utah legislature. It is regarded as eminently fitting, therefore, that men and women of Utah memorize that day with ceremony and celebration.

The celebration was held February 12, in the Assembly Hall, on the occasion of the pas
the OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 153 sage of the bill, and two days before the municipal election, when most of the Avards in the city were represented. Eliza R. Snow presided and Lydia D. Alder acted as secretary. A committee was appointed to wait upon Acting Governor Mann to thank him for signing the bill. That committee was as follows: Eliza R. Snow, Bathsheba W. Smith, Sarah M. Kimball, Margaret T. Smoot, Harriet C. Young, N. C. Twiss Young, Phoebe Woodruff, M. Isabella Home, Marinda A. Hyde, Elizaabeth G. Cannon, Amelia F. Young and Prescinda H. Kimball. Rousing speeches were made by that leading suffragist, Sarah M. Kimball, by Phoebe Woodruff, Bathsheba W. Smith. Prescinda H. Kimball, Zina D. Young, Margaret T. Smoot and Wilmarth East. in amusing incident occurred when Mrs. Smoot said: "Women's rights have been spoken of. I have never had any desire for more rights than I have. I have considered politics aside from the sphere of women;  but, as things progress, I feel it is right that we should vote, though the path may be fraught with difficulty." Mrs. East replied in her gentle but emphatic way: "I cannot agree with Sister Smoot in regard to woman's rights. I have never felt that woman had her privileges. I have always wanted a voice in the politics of the nation, as well as to rear a family. I was much impressed when I read the poem composed by Mrs. Emily Woodmansee, 'Who Cares to Win a Woman's Thought.' There is a bright day coming but we need more wisdom and humility than ever before." Roster of Men. The roster of the men who were in that legislature recalls a large roll of the leaders and founders of the life of this state and this people. Brigham Young, naturally, was not there, but he was represented by his counselor, George A. Smith. President Young had committed the measure into the able hands of Abraham O. Smoot;  he was made chairman of the joint committee. George Q. Cannon introduced the bill in the council, Peter Maughan in the house. Following are the men who were in the legislature in 1876: Council — George A. Smith, president. Iron;  Lorenzo Snow, Boxelder;  Ezra T. Benson, member elected before legislature met. Rich county;  Orson Hyde, Sanpete;  Wilford Woodruff, Salt Lake;  Daniel Harrington, Utah;  George Q. Cannon, Salt Lake;  Erastus Snow. Washington;  Abraham O. Smoot, Utah;  William Jennings, Salt Lake;  Moses Thatcher. Cache;  and Joseph A. Young. Sevier. House — Orson Pratt, speaker. Salt Lake;  John Taylor, Salt Lake;  Joseph F. Smith. Salt Lake;  Franklin D. Richards, Weber;  A. P. Rockwood, Salt Lake;  John Rowberry, Tooele;  
 Thomas Calhater, Millard;  John R. Murdock, Beaver;  Abram Hatch, Wasatch;  Peter Maughan, Cache;  Brigham Young, Jr., Salt Lake;  Chas. C. Rich, Rich;  A. K. Thurber, Sevier;  S. Pitchforth, Juab;  W. B. Pace, Utah;  Enoch Reese, Salt Lake;  A. J. Wright, Weber. There was one other, whose name was not obtainable for this article;  he may have been from Kane county. There were 12 members in the council branch, four of these from Salt Lake district;  and 18 members in the house, six of them from the Salt Lake district. Will Celebrate. The committee on celebration were of the following: Ida Smoot Dusenberry, representing Abraham O. Smoot;  Clarrissa Smith Williams, representing George A. Smith;  Annie Wells Cannon, representing Daniel H. Wells and George Q. Cannon;  Susa Young Gates, representing Brigham Young. Points emphasized in this program were: The exercise of the franchise by the Utah women, on the entrance into this state.  Bancroft's "History of Utah" refers to this communal form of government practiced in our earliest settlement in the following language: "During this period, 1847-1850, men and women voted by ballot in matters relating to government. Women had already voted in religious meetings by the uplifted hand, but this is probably the first instance in the United States where woman suffrage was permitted. Utah, at that time, however, was not a part of the United States, and before its admission as a territory, States Government. the privilege was withdrawn," by the United Second: The granting of the franchise to women February 12, 1870, by the Utah legislature. Third: The fact that Senator Edmonds, in 1882, secured the passage of a bill which disfranchised men and women living in plural marriage, defined as unlawful cohabitation. A commission was sent to Utah and a test oath was administered which completed the disfranchisement of women living in plural marriage. In 1887, Tucker, of Virginia, introduced a bill which abolished woman's suffrage in Utah, the act becoming a law March 3, 1887. Fourth: The fact that in 1896, when statehood was achieved, Enabling Act. that women's suffrage was incorporated in the Our two General Board members, Mrs. Susa Young Gates and Mrs. Donnette Smith Kesler, were appointed to attend the U. S. Suffrage Jubilee, in Chicago, February 12-18, where the women of the nation celebrated Wyoming's and Utah's Jubilee with the National Suffrage in 1920. THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 155 Centennial of the Vision. The early spring months marks the centennial, or hundredth anniversary, of the marvelous vision vouchsafed to the Prophet Joseph Smith in the grove, at Palmyra. The Church authorities expect to have memorial services, both at the April conference and at Palmyra, later. The Relief Society will also signalize this event in the program for our general conference in April. The present time itself is fraught with great significance for the women of this people, for the Church itself and for the world. First Women's Bank. The first woman's bank in Tennessee, probably in the world, was established in Clarksville, Tennessee, with the capital stock of $15,000. The president is the wife of the town physician, and the cashier, the wife of the county attorney. Every office and position in the bank will be filled by a woman and they announce "the special function of the bank is to afford financial conveniences to women." Small savings account will be popularized by this bank. Women Featured in the Coming Campaign. Both Republican and Democratic parties are featuring women in the coming campaigns. Utah received a visit from the Republican National Committee on Jan. 10, 1920, accompanied by Miss Mary Garret Hay of New York, who is chairman of the National Executive Committee on the woman's division. Miss Hay is a famous old time worker in suffrage and was in Utah twenty years ago in the interests of that campaign. She had many happy reminiscences of Utah women and was especially enthusiastic for the return of Senator Reed Smoot, whom she declared had done more than any other man in Congress for the cause of women's suffrage. She added "He never fails, he looks after your interests, and he has a nation viewpoint, as well, and looks after the interests of other states and of women everywhere." Our Mrs. Janette A. Hyde went to Denver with Mrs. Davis, to represent the Utah Republican women at the intermountain Republican meeting held there on Jan. 6, 1920. Babies in Denver Church Cared for While Mothers Are at Church. A "creche," under the care of a trained kindergarten teacher, has been established at Trinity Methodist church in Denver, for the convenience of mothers who desire to attend 
 divine services on Sunday and who have no one to care for their children at home. New York has Barred Women from Juries. Justice Lazarsky, evidently a Russian Jew, refused the injunction on Jan. 7, to compel the commissioner of juries, of Brooklyn, to include women in making up jury lists. His only excuse was precedent. Women Prisoners not to be Whipped. The shocking practice of whipping fallen women or dissolute female characters, which has been practiced in Atlanta, Georgia, was ordered discontinued, Jan. 21, after a public hearing brought by the Atlanta Humane Society. Women have been strapped to a contrivance resembling a chair and flogged unmercifully. The same committee is now endeavoring to have the practice of flogging male prisoners also discontinued. Did somebody say this was an enlightened age, and that such practices were done away with long ago? Women Physicians. Not all of the women have been crowded out of the medical profession, at least in some of the eastern states. Mrs. A. C. Ivy, who before marriage was Emma Kohman, of the University of Chicago, told members of the Federation of American Societies for Experiment Biology, at the congress held in Boston in December, how she came to discover the cause of "War Edema." This disease, also called "war dropsy" and "hunger edema", caused illness and death of many thousands in Russia, Germany, Poland, and France. It was thought to be due to lack of fats in the diet. Experiments revealed that it was due to lack of protein. The results were the more important in that scientists had generally believed that proteins tended to increase rather than cure edema. Mrs. Ivy found edema was produced in rats deprived of proteins and cured by supplying them with this food principle. Dr. Anna W. Williams, on Influenza. Another eminent woman physician of the New York Board of Health in discussing a recent paper read by Dr. T. M. Rivers of the Johns Hopkins Hospital on "What is Influenza?" at the same meeting of the Society of American Bacteriologists, held in Boston the last week in December, objected to a former paper on the ground that 400 influenza strains among animals had been studied in New York and no large groups had been found among them. She claimed there THE OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 157 was no relationship among them serologically. Dr. Blake said that the bacilli must be grouped by cultural tests. "Let us do some honest-to-goodness work," he said, "and forget that it causes epidemics." \Mien doctors disagree. Reports from the Children's Bureau. The Children's Bureau in Washington has been studying the rights of children born out of wedlock. Attention is called in this report to the fact that our legal provisions for the support of the child born out of wedlock are inadequate, the payments prescribed are often too low, and in most of the States the period of support is too brief, sometimes reaching only to the child's 10th or 12th year. In one State only a single payment of $50 is required, in another $90, distributed over three years is required. The two most liberal states have allowances that total, in one case, $2,750 for the first 18 years of the child's life;  and in the other, $1,750 for the first 11 years of the child's life. Physical conditions for working children are encouraging the attention of the Children's Bureau. Tests in large manufacturing centers prove the injurious effect of early confined labor on the undeveloped bodies of children. Utah has little of this problem. Our children are kept in school and live in as ideal conditions as any children in the world. Ouija Boards Are Dangerous. Ouija boards were denounced by the famous British scientist, Sir Oliver Lodge, also the leading exponent of spiritualism, on his arrival in New York, Jan. 15. Sir Oliver advised persons of weak minds to keep away from the Ouija board. He believed that unless a person possessed a strong force of mind there was danger that constant application upon the board might affect the mentality. He wants people to adopt only his pet form of belief in spiritualism. Noted Men Visit President Emmeline B. Wells. General John J. Pershing, who visited Utah in January, and Will H. Hayes, chairman of the National Republican committee, both visited Mrs. Wells in her room at the Hotel Utah. Mrs. Wells sees many famous people and none of them are more remarkable or worthy of fame than herself. Rachal Foster Avery Passes Away. Rachal Foster Avery passed beyond on October 26, 1919. She was one of the rarest, most beautiful spirits who ever tabernacled in the fish and she has left us in the prime of her 
 vigor and power. She was Susan B. Anthony's closest and best beloved soul-child and friend. Mrs. Avery gave herself, her youth, her fine organizing ability and her fresh, unselfish enthusiasms to Miss Anthony in unselfish and loving devotion, as Miss Anthony herself dedicated every power of mind and body to the cause of Women's Suffrage. Mrs. Avery was loved by all the great leading women of America, and of Europe. None was jealous of Rachal because she had no personal aim, no selfish ambition. She was a true and loyal friend to the "Mormon" women from their first entrance into eastern public life. She withdrew from public life after Miss Anthony's death and devoted herself to her family. She was stricken suddenly and unexpectedly and was sick only a few days. The "Mormon" women will mourn her loss and treasure her memory as one of their loveliest undying memories. NOTES FROM THE FIELD. Southern States Mission. In order to raise funds, the members of the Greenville Relief Society have resorted to several methods. A bazaar was held which netted them $47.75;  at a Church supper $17 was realized;  the members also went into the cotton fields where they earned $9 picking cotton. In connection with Annual Day a fine program was given including a picnic dinner. The older members of the organization were special guests on this occasion. Northern States Mission. The members of the Milwaukee Relief Society are doing splendid work, especially in the genealogical department, since April they have secured 1,178 names for baptism. San Luis Stake. The Relief Society women of this stake raised $139 in six weeks with Sunday eggs, to pay for the electric lights placed in the new stake amusement hall. Twin Falls Stake. The Twin Falls stake made a special effort at Thanksgiving time to give cheer and comfort to the widows and those in need. Three wards were fortunate enough not to have any widows or any needy people. Twenty-three families were remembered in the Twin Falls ward. Donations were received and disbursements made to the extent of $27. The OFFICIAL ROUND TABLE 159 donations consisted in part of dressed chickens, fresh pork, bottled fruit, apples, vegetables of all kinds, flour and groceries. Boise Stake, The Genealogical department of the Boise stake has mailed 107 names to the Logan temple, with money for the same. Eastern States Mission. Miss Edna Hardy of Moroni was appointed, on January 2, to preside over the Relief Society organizations of the Eastern States Mission. Miss Hardy takes the place of Miss Marie J. Haselman, who was recently released to return home. GREENVILLK RELIEF SOCIETY PICKING COTTON TO *RAISE .FUNDS FOR TREASURY. Cottonwood Stake. The first stake annual report to reach the office was that of Cottonwood stake, on January 14. In all but two of the wards the regular outlined subjects were taken;  846 days were spent with the sick;  710 special visits were made to the sick;  and 116 families were helped;  $1,311.01 was paid for charity;  eighty-eight visits were made by Relief Society stake officers to the wards, this would average seven and one-third visits to each ward. During the year the teachers made 1,472 visits;  1,393 days were spent in temple work. The membership in this stake is 701 with twelve wards. The secretary of this stake is Ivy C. Fowler. 
 Sevier Stake. The stake reports from Sevier stake, compiled by Mrs. Lydia Z. Cowley, was received on January 16. There are in this stake twenty-one wards, with a membership of 1,183. With one exception the required outlined subjects were studied in every ward. Six hundred eighty-three days were spent with the sick;  1,056 special visits were made to the sick;  $7,153.79 were paid for charity;  with a total of ninety one families helped;  sixty-six bodies were prepared for burial by Relief Society workers. This work represents a service that is not only especially sanctified in its nature but unique in social welfare work. Five hundred and three days were spent in temple work;  two successful bazaars were reported by the wards;  twenty-three quilts;  and $21 were invested in War Savings stamps. The number of visits made by stake officers to the wards;  twenty-nine;  number of visits by ward teachers, 664. Cassia and Montpelier Stakes. Reports from these stakes reached the office on January 17, from Mrs. Lottie Bach, and Mrs. Mary J. Swenson, respectively. Since the division of the Cassia stake into three groups, there are left only eight wards in Cassia. The secretary reports that their work especially in traveling long distances has been reduced;  and they have been able to visit the wards oftener and keep in closer touch with them. Prior to the close of the year, the Stake Board visited in a body, all of the societies for the purpose of helping the enrollment and attendance generally. Although the membership of stake is now only 296, 130 "Relief Society Magazine" are taken, practically half the membership. All of the required outlined lessons were studied in every ward but one, and current events were given weekly in every society but one;  214 days were spent in temple work, which amounts to almost one day for each registered number;  263 days were spent with the sick;  and 383 special visits were made to the sick;  nineteen families were helped financially and $183.13 was paid for charity. Fremont Stake. In a letter from Mrs. F. S. Parkinson of Rexburg, Idaho, we learn that a movement is on foot for uniting the Relief Society women of Idaho in the cause of Health Legislation for the state of Idaho. These women are to be commended for their vision and for their interest. Oh H. Anderson. Gen. John J. Pershing was given a cordial welcome on his visit to Utah, on January 16. The Jewish population of the world in 1919 was 15,430,000. Of these, 3,100,000 are in the United States, and nearly all the others in Europe. The fiftieth anniversary of the completion of the first railway to Salt Lake City was celebrated here on January 10. Prof. Joseph J. Daynes, one of Utah's most versatile and prominent musicians, died in Salt Lake City on January 15. The Congregational church in the United States has inaugurated a great scheme of propaganda for converts among the Indians in Mexico. Influenza appeared in nearly every city of over 50,000 population, and in many smaller ones in the United States, the third week in January. The fatalities are not so great as in 1918. Earthquakes in Mexico, from January 3 to January 15, disturbed ten states of the southern republic, doing immense damage, and resulting in the death of at least 1,000 people. Soviet agitators to the number of 249 were deported from the United States, and reached Russia on January 16. Their leaders threaten to return to the United States at the first opportunity. The Presbyterian church in the United States is seeking 
 to unite the various sects under the title of the United Churches of Christ in America. Success is not assured, at least not yet. The Uintah Basin railway articles of incorporation were filed in Utah on January 3. It is intended to build a line from Salt Lake City into eastern Utah. The railways of the United States are to be turned back to their owners on March 1, according to proclamation of the President. Many people look for additional labor troubles following that event. Europe is at peace by treaty, but a big war duo in western Asia looms up to threaten all the Old World civilization. Truly, what the men's future hearts has are failing in the fear and uncertainty of in store. President Heber J. Grant and a number of the general Church authorities intend to make a pilgrimage to the home of the Prophet Joseph Smith, near Palmyra, New York, in May next, in honor of the first heavenly vision given to the Prophet. January 25 was the date set by the Presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lattery-day Saints as the culminating date for donations to help poor and suffering members of the Church in Switzerland and Germany. "He that giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord." Mrs. Tressia Anderson Miner, a Latter-day Saint missionary to the Hawaiian Islands, died there in December. Her body was brought home to Utah for interment. She was the mother of nine children, and an exemplary Saint. Dean Inge, of St. Paul's church, London, England, recently declared that "Nothing will end social discontent but destruction of our great cities." The dean has acquired some fame as a far-seeing publicist, and his warning may not be lightly passed by. Richard W. Young, president of the Ensign Stake of Zion, died on December 27. He was Utah's most famous soldier, having been made a bridgadier general in the United States army for his services, and was recognized in both civil and military life as one of the ablest, most amiable, and most exemplary men in the nation.