[Vol7 | March 1920 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: On the Watch Tower James H. Anderson]
Oh  mWATCiilOWER 
®C3QODaCZJCDCDOC5tUC30C3CZ:>i:DCD 
James   H.    Anderson. 
Gen.  John  J.  Pershing  was  given  a  cordial  welcome  on  his 
visit  to  Utah,  on  January  16. 
The  Jewish  population  of  the  world  in  1919  was  15,430,000. 
Of  these,  3,100,000  are  in  the  United  States,  and  nearly  all  the 
others  in  Europe. 
The  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  completion  of  the  first  rail- 
way to  Salt  Lake  City  was  celebrated  here  on  January  10. 
Prof.  Joseph  J.  Daynes,  one  of  Utah's  most  versatile  and 
prominent  musicians,  died  in  Salt  Lake  City  on  January  15. 
The  Congregational  church  in  the  United  States  has  in- 
augurated a  great  scheme  of  propaganda  for  converts  among 
the  Indians  in  Mexico.     Quien  salDC? 
Influenza  appeared  in  nearly  every  city  of  over  50,000  pop- 
ulation, and  in  many  smaller  ones  in  the  United  States,  the 
third  week  in  January.  The  fatalities  are  not  so  great  as  in 
1918. 
Earthquakes  in  Mexico,  from  January  3  to  January  15, 
disturbed  ten  states  of  the  southern  republic,  doing  immense 
damage,  and  resulting  in  the  death  of  at  least  1,000  people. 
Soviet  agitators  to  the  number  of  249  were  deported  from 
the  United  States,  and  reached  Russia  on  January  16.  Their 
leaders  threaten  to  return  to  the  United  States  at  the  first 
opportunity. 
The  Presbyterian  church  in  the  United  States  is  seeking

162  RELIEF    SOCIETY  MAGAZINE 
to  unite  the  various   sects   under  the   title     of     the     United 
Churches  of  Christ  in  America.  Success   is  not  assured,  at 
least  not  yet. 
The  Uintah  Basin  railway  articles  of  incorporation  were 
filed  in  Utah  on  January  3.  It  is  intended  to  build  a  line  from 
Salt  Lake  City  into  eastern  Utah. 
The  railways  of  the  United  States  are  to  be  turned  back 
to  their  owners  on  March  1,  according  to  proclamation  of  the 
President.  Many  people  look  for  additional  labor  troubles 
following  that  event. 
Europe  is  at  peace  by  treaty,  but  a  big  war  doud  in  west- 
ern Asia  looms  up  to  threaten  all  the  Old  World  civilization. 
Truly,  men's  hearts  are  failing  in  the  fear  and  uncertainty  of 
what  the  future  has  in  store. 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  and  a  number  of  the  general 
Church  authorities  intend  to  make  a  pilgrimage  to  the  home 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  near  Palmyra,  New  York,  in 
May  next,  in  honor  of  the  first  heavenly  vision  given  to  the 
Prophet. 
January  25  was  the  date  set  by  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lattery-day  Saints  as  the  culminat- 
ing date  for  donations  to  help  poor  and  suffering  members  of 
the  Church  in  Switzerland  and  Germany.  "He  that  giveth  to 
the  poor  lendeth  to  the  Lord." 
Mrs.  Tressia  Anderson  Miner,  a  Latter-day  Saint  mission- 
ary to  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  died  there  in  December.  Her 
body  was  brought  home  to  Utah  for  interment.  She  was  the 
mother  of  nine  children,  and  an  exemplary  Saint. 
Dean  Inge,  of  St.  Paul's  church,  London,  England,  re- 
cently declared  that  "Nothing  will  end  social  discontent  but 
destruction  of  our  great  cities."  The  dean  has  acquired  some 
fame  as  a  far-seeing  publicist,  and  his  warning  may  not  be 
lightly  passed  by. 
Richard  W.  Young,  president  of  the  Ensign  Stake  of  Zion, 
died  on  December  27.  He  was  Utah's  most  famous  soldier, 
having  been  made  a  bridgadier  general  in  the  United  States 
army  for  his  services,  and  was  recognized  in  both  civil  and 
military  life  as  one  of  the  ablest,  most  amiable,  and  most  ex- 
emplary men  in  the  nation.