[Vol8 | April 1921 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Opening of the Chinese Realm for the Preaching of the Gospel]

Opening of the Chinese Realm for the Preaching of the Gospel The opening of the Chinese mission is of peculiar significance to the Latter-day Saints, and especially to the women of the Relief Society, because the women of China have long needed the enlightening influences of the gospel to correct the stultifying condition which always obtains when a people live without the light of pure revelation. It is interesting to note that the students of history claim that China was settled in the following manner: About this time it is supposed that Noah, wearied with the growing depravity of his descendants, retired with a few select friends to the remotest part of Asia, and there begun what has since been called the Chinese monarchy. Its early history is not connected with that of other nations, and is also very obscure and much mixed with fable. Confucius, the great Chinese philosopher, is supposed to have flourished about 500 B. C. (From Lyman's Historical Chart 2100, B. C.) It is certain that the Japanese and Chinese people are somewhat dissimilar, and students have long recognized the fact, both through their various religions and their sociological conditions, that they spring probably from separate human roots. There was an attempt made, in 1853, to introduce the gospel into China as the following extracts from the Millennial Star will indicate. The letter of Hosea Stout reads like ancient history, in the light of modern conditions in China: THE CHINA MISSION (From the Millennial Star, Volume 15, Page 250): "We have received a letter from Elder James Lewis, dated San Francisco, Feb. 14, who with Elders Hosea Stout and Duncan Chapman, 192 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. R e is on a mission to China. Elder Lewis states that, at the date of his letter, all the elders for the other missions had sailed from San Francisco, and that himself and Elders Stout and Chapman were expecting to sail in a few days from there, for Hong Kong. It is our prayer that these brethren may be enabled to open-the doors and windows of the "Celestial Empire," that its inhabitants may be cheered with the celestial light that is now beaming from the heaven of heavens. It will afford us special pleasure to hear, from time to time, of the progress of the various missions which are now on foot amongst the nations." THE CHINA MISSION (From the Deseret News, Dec. 22nd). (Quoted from Millennial Star, Volume 16, page 253.) San Francisco, Aug. 27, 1852. President B. Young—Dear Sir: We have an opportunity, which we improve in writing a few lines. We did not think our letter would be from this point; but one does not always know his situation regarding the future. We left this place for Hong Kong, March 8, and have so soon returned to our starting point. We can truly say, that we had the strongest faith, animated by enjoying much of the Spirit of the Lord, that a good work would be done in that land. We arrived at Hong Kong, April 27, and began the labor which was before us. We, however, found the situation and condition of that country entirely the reverse of what we expected, from the information we could gather in California. We found about 250 Europeans, or the would-be-nabobs of the world, merchants, officers of the civil governments, no common class, which are found in English colonies in other parts of the world. This class we found almost unapproachable, on account of their wealth and popularity; they look with contempt upon all who are not of the same grade with themselves; also a few lawyers, doctors, and a small sprinkling of missionaries, also of the upper circles, luxuriating upon the proceeds of the cent societies at home, and the miseries of the people in that region. There are about one thousand soldiers, the most of whom are Irish and Scotch, some English, some blacks from Ceylon. They are closely kept in barracks, having only from five to eight o'clock p. M. For recess. They are so fond of the licensed privileges found among the Chinese women, that they are as corrupt as vicious habits can make them. The balance of the population are made up of four or five grades of Chinese, ranging from the merchants to the coolies, who are the carriers of burthens; also Malays, Lascars, Parsees, Portuguese, Negroes, Tartars, etc., a heterogeneous mass of tongues, manners, customs, and religions. The other five parts, called free, are of the same stripe, only there are not so many whites. Very few of the Chinese speak anything like good English, and that only so far as trade goes. The only Europeans and Americans residing at Canton, Amoy, Macao, Ningpoo, Fouchow, Chinchew, vary from 75 to 100 each; at Shanghai, about 250. They are of the same class of aristocracy as Hong Kong, only more so. They are called the most inhospitable people in the ~ world, and from what we have witnessed we know it is true in many respects. We began to make our business known upon our arrival, and having OPENING OF THE CHINESE REALM. 193 the privilege of stopping in an old decayed mansion for a short time, we tried for an opening to preach. Some of the people seemed quite friendly, and wished us success. No house could be obtained. We took to the streets, and there began to teach the principles of the gospel. Some of the people professed to be acquainted with our society in England, and had read our character in the papers; this was revamped and given to the people. This, however, did not discourage us, for we were used to such things. A few of our lectures were very well attended, many stopped to hear us, but soon our congregations dwindled down till not a soul would stop or attend. Not disheartened, we encouraged each other, and continued to preach still (batting the air), and visited the people individually for private teaching as long as one person would hear, distributing our books and pamphlets, for their perusal, trusting in the God of Israel, and claiming the blessings and promises placed upon us, pushing forward to find an opening, to see some one who would hear and feel interested in our message. We visited the Chinese who could speak English. They are generally in the employ of the missionaries or the government, and command high wages. They told us they had no time to talk on religion. At this time we began to feel, by the spirit, that the way was darkening before us; yet we continued to hope. Our books were returned without a desire to ask a question or answer ours, or thanks for their use. We looked to the other ports of China; true we had the privilege of visiting them, but what the chance of success? The only safe place was Hong Kong, owing to the revolution spreading through that country, 'At many of these places, the whites were preparing to leave, or going on board vessels in the harbor, for protection. To go among the Chinese we could not, not being able to speak their language. Thus things continued till we felt that nothing could be done at present. We could neither turn to the right nor left, having scanty means. To remain, and no possible. Resource perceivable for substance. The way opened for us to return to this point, where we could wait the counsel of the Presidency regarding our future movements. The language is only obtained from a living tongue, as it cannot be expressed in English, owing to the intonations and inflections of the voice in the same word for upon the soud depends the meaning. One word may have from 10 to 30 different meanings; these are given by the tone, the same as in music; and to attempt to write the language, would be to prove Phonography too short at one end. Teachers are not easily obtained who can speak English, and they charge very high, and are under the control of the missionaries. In each district in China there is a different dialect, so that one cannot understand the other; yet they have the same characters. The residents in that land are only there as temporary persons to acquire a fortune—their God is their money— and only remain on commercial business with the nation exchanging each for the products of the country. The Catholic missionaries, who are mostly of the Asiatic clime, have obtained the language while young; they adopt the manners and customs of the Chinese, shave their head, wear tails, and go among them, and it is said they have some success; the others do nothing. Report says that the rebel party are Christians; how this is, we do not know, as it is contradicted. The language must be obtained either by study or the power of 'God, before we can tell them the truths of heaven. How this is to be brought about, is the question which may be asked, and that is the very thing that we would like to know. Upon our arrival here, we heard of brothers Canfield and Wade 
 Being appointed to operate with us in China. After having consulted together, we have thought to lay the situation of that country before you, and that Brother Hosea Stout should return to the Valley, and will leave in a few days in company with Brother Harvey Green, by way of San Bernardino. Respectfully we remain your brethren in the gospel, Hosea Stout, James Lewis, Chapman Duncan, And now we have the pleasing knowledge that the Chinese realm has been opened by the dedication services performed by Elder David O. McKay and his companion, Elder Hugh J. Cannon, on their recent trip around the world. The following account of the dedicatory services has been furnished to The Magazine, and we give it exactly as written by Brother Cannon and sent to us: Elder David O. McKay, of the Council of the Twelve, and President Hugh J. Cannon, of the Liberty Stake of Zion, arrived in Peking, the chief city of China, Saturday evening, January 8, 1921. The horde of ragged and revolting mendicants, grimy porters and insistent jinrikisha men, who fought noisily for possession of us, as we emerged from the station, was not such as to inspire a feeling of affectionate brotherhood. However, we had gone to Peking to do the Lord's will, as nearly as we could ascertain what it was. His inspiration rested upon his servant in charge, and Elder McKay decided that the land should be dedicated and set apart for the preaching of the gospel of the Master. It seemed most desirable that this should be done on the following day, as that was the only Sabbath we should be in Peking. But where, in the midst of that clamor and confusion, could a suitable spot be found? The city lies on a level, barren plain. There are no forests, and, as far as we know, no groves nor even clumps of trees. We are wholly unfamiliar with the city and had met no one who could enlighten us. If we went outside the surrounding walls, there was reason to believe no secluded spot could be found nor the ever-present crowd of supplicants avoided. January 9 dawned clear and cold. With no definite goal in mind, we left the hotel and walked through the legation quarter, under the shadow of dear Old Glory, out into what is known as "The Forbidden City," past the crumbling temples reared to a "Unknown God." Directed, as we believe, by a higher Power, we came to a grove of cypress trees, partially surrounded by an old moat, and walked to its extreme northwest corner, then retraced our steps until reaching a tree with di-, OPENING OF THE CHINESE REALM. 195 vided trunk which had attracted our attention when we first saw it. "This is the spot," said Elder McKay. A reposeful peace hovered over the place which seemed already hallowed; one felt that it was almost a profanation to tread thereon with covered head and feet. Two men were in sight, but they seemed oblivious to our presence and they soon left the grove. There, in the heart of a city with a million inhabitants, we were entirely alone, except for the presence of a divinely sweet and comforting spirit. An act destined to affect the lives of four hundred and fifty millions of people now living, as well as of millions and perhaps billions yet unborn, calls forth feelings of profound solemnity, and that, too, despite the fact that the vast majority of those affected may die in ignorance of the event. After a prayer had been offered and the spot dedicated as a place of supplication and for the fulfilment of the object of our visit, Elder David O. McKay, in the authority of the Holy Apostleship, dedicated and set apart the Chinese Realm for the preaching of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, whenever the Church authorities shall deem it advisable to send out missionaries for that purpose. Never was the power of his calling more apparent in his utterances. He blessed the land and its benighted people, and supplicated the Almighty to acknowledge this blessing. He prayed that famine and pestilence might be stayed, that the government might become stable, either through its own initiative or by the iritervention of other powers, and that superstition and error, which for ages have enveloped the people, might be discarded, and Truth take their place. He supplicated the Lord to send to this land broad-minded and intelligent men and women, that upon them might rest the spirit of discernment and the power to comprehend the Chinese nature, so that in the souls of this people an appreciation of the glorious gospel might be awakened. It was such a prayer and blessing as must be recognized in heaven, and though the effects may not be suddenly apparent, they will be none the less real. And never, perhaps, has there been a land more greatly in need of heavenly aid. One cannot help but feel that if it were not for the watchful and unselfish attitude of the United States, China's national rights would very quickly be invaded. With the largest population of any country in the world, she is wholly impotent, and in addition to her own helplessness, a curse seems to overshadow her. Millions of her people are starving. It is estimated by the committee in charge of the re- 
 Lief work that five dollars will save a life, but the five dol- - lars must come from abroad. And yet, if this nation would observe one of the simplest of the Lord's commandments, that of the monthly fast, and give the meals thus saved to those in need, the famine problem would be solved. This would furnish two meals daily to each of the fifteen million sufferers. The cypress tree is a symbol of sorrow and sadness in China, and this cypress grove seemed a peculiarly fitting place in which to invoke the blessing of heaven upon this oppressed and sorrowing people. The accompanying picture shows the tree, and Brother McKay, where the dedicatory prayer was offered. At Shan-Hai-Kuan, the point at which that wonder of wonders, the great Chinese Wall, meets the sea, and on the frontier of the famine district, we took a picture which we are presenting herewith. Though the morning was bitterly cold, we judged it to be zero weather, some of these people were nearly naked. The shreds and patches which only partially covered their emaciated and shivering bodies might well feel complimented at being called rags. One contemplates China's past accomplishments with a feeling akin to awe. We respect old age and especially so when, with antiquity, we see achievement; and it is well to remember that this land had a highly developed civilization nearly twentyfive centuries before the Christian Era. Notwithstanding her pitiably inane condition, we have met some admirable Chinese people, and cherish the sincere hope that at no very distant day the light of the gospel may penetrate the present overwhelming darkness. Though the abject misery we beheld appealed to our tenderest sympathies, gold and silver we could not give, but the door was unlocked for them, through which they may enter into eternal life. Flder Duncan McAllister reports the fact that there are a number of full-blooded Chinese Latter-day Saints in the Sandwich Islands, one of whom has received his endowments in the Hawaiian Temple. Henry W. Aki is a successful merchant, on Fourth Street, in Honolulu. His wife is a Japanese. They have been sealed in the temple and their children sealed to them. Five faithful Chinese men and a number of women, received their patriarchal blessings under the hands of Elder McAllister; one of the men is named Afoon, another Ahkin, Charles Ake ard wife, these of Honolulu, and Laie; and Joseph Ah Moy San, of Hilo. All of these are earnest Latter-day Saints; some of them were born on the Sandwich Islands. OPENING OF THE CHINESE REALM. 197 An interesting story of the Chinese Empire concerns a distinguished party of Chinese philosophers who came to this city some years ago. Governor Bamberger appointed a committee to entertain the party. Dr. John A. Widtsoe, a member of the committee tells the story about as follows: Two of the three chief members of the party were former cabinet ministers. One had been a minister of the Chinese empire three times, and the third had just left the post of minister of education to the Chinese republic. The third chief member was the president of one of the leading colleges of China—a graduate of American and European universities. They represented the most prominent, and the wisest classes among the Chinese people. The party had landed at Vancouver; had gone directly to Boston and Washington, from there direct to Salt Lake City, with a brief stop on the way at a small college where a number of Chinese students were studying. It seemed strange that this distinguished party should single out, in so long a journey, Boston, Washington and Salt Lake City, as the chief and practically the only stopping places. Naturally, in the course of conversation, the motive for this itinerary was sought.: _ The aged leader of the party, great in position and experience, explained through the interpreter that they were seeking knowledge that could be used to make the old China more progressive, and more on a par with the leading nations of the earth. They felt that through an active, living religion China might be rejuvenated, both in civic and social affairs. When the suggestion was made that China surely had a great religion founded upon the teachings of Confucius, the answer from the minister came promptly that Confucius was not a religious leader; he was an ethical teacher, and "ethics can not take the place of a vitally living religion, in the salvation of a great nation." It was explained by these distinguished and learned Chinamen that China had tried to win success from ethics alone, but had failed, from education alone, but had failed, and that the progressive leaders of China were convinced that a correct religion was indispensable in working out a satisfactory future for the Chinese people. When they were again pressed to explain their choice of stopping places in the United States, the head of the party declared that in Washington they had paid their official respects to the Government of the United States, and had conferred with the Chinese representatives, and that in Boston they had made certain observations of great importance. As for Salt Lake City, "Ts not Utah, the only state, save Massachusetts, that was founded 
 Through religious motives? We wanted to see what had been done in this State, so founded, in the hope that some of the principles so successful here, might be incorporated into the new religion of China." There was little need of further questioning. When the party reached the Temple square, and the Sea-gulli monument met the gaze, the young interpreter explained that the Chinese were very familiar with the story of the sea gulls. Some of their early travelers had heard the story, and found it so delightful that they had carried the story home, and it was in every Chinese boy's school book. In connection with this story, our General Secretary, Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, relates an incident which is interesting. She says that during the years when she taught in the public schools, in 1897, the story of the sea-gulls was published in pamphlet form and distributed to the children by Miss Horton, who was very public-spirited and anxious for the children to have the traditions of their own state. It may be that one of these copies fell into the hands of a Chinese visitor, although the Chinese Prince spoke as if they long ago had the story of the sea-gulls. 'Latter-day Saints realize that there are but few nations leit, now that China has opened her doors, in which the gospel must be preached, before the end shall come; perhaps only Russia, Egypt, and the Congo regions of dark Africa. How glorious are the prospects for the Latter-day Saint who lives his religion and observes the signs of the times. JAPANESE MISSION. In this connection, it is most interesting to know that the Japanese mission, which was opened just twenty years ago, by our present prophet, seer, and revelator, Heber J. Grant, has been maintained in that kingdom from that day to this, with measurable success. The readers of The Magazine will be interested to read some hitherto unpublished items concerning the dedication of the Land of Japan, by President Grant and his companions. President Grant, and elders Alma O. Taylor, Horace Ensign and Louis Kelsch, left Utah, July 24, 1901. They arrived in Yokohama, Japan, August 12, 1901. Going out to secure rooms, they' found to their surprise a great prejudice had been worked up concerning them through the English-Japanese press and the efforts of ministers and missionaries there. It was difficult indeed to find rooms. They visited the widow of the famous actor, George Pauncefort, and were cordially received; and finally were located in a small lodging-house on the bluff surrounding the city. The Tokio papers were cordially opened to President Grant, and some remarkable articles appeared there, over his sig- OPENING OF THE CHINESE REALM. 199 nature. His memorial greeting, which he addressed to the people of Japan, is full of the spirit of the Lord, and of the mission which he was sent to accomplish. On the first of September, 1901, the Land of Japan was dedicated by President Heber J. Grant, and the following description of that glorious event is taken from journals of the clerk of that mission, Elder Alma O. Taylor. Brother Taylor thus eloquently describes the evening of the day before the dedicatory services: 1 After supper we sat out in the garden together, talking over the future and the problems which it presented. It was a beautiful moonlight evening, and there came a gentle breeze from off the ocean that ' filled the air with freshness most delightful, as we looked from our elevated position out over the city. Below we could see thousands of flickering lights which burned as if in rivalry to the starry brightness of the sky. Among the quivering branches of the trees the "katy-dids" were singing with buzzing harmony their evening songs, and upon our ears there fell the occasional cry of a blind beggar as he wandered through the streets below in search of alms. In the distance there arose the assuring sound of the night watchman's signal, which, as he came nearer, grew louder and louder, then died away again as he passed along his beat. As we sat there drinking in the beauty of the surroundings, our hearts were filled with tranquility. Our minds wandered back to the scenes of the past; and our hopes hastened on to view the events of the future. We thought of home, with its familiar faces, its joys, its sorrows, and all its endearing features, but as the longing to be back again amid those scenes crept over us, the path of duty appeared before our eyes. And as we looked along its course, beholding in the distance the glorious future to which it led, the pleasures, joys, and brightness of all that we had left behind, faded from before the contemplation of that coming day when our hearts would be made glad in the salvation of the souls of men. Indeed, the happiness of the past became as the darkness of night which flees from the light and glory of the day. We went to our rooms and poured out our souls to God, expressing the thanks which we felt for his blessings and mercy. To the sweet strain of music, which came from a neighboring house, we dropped off to sleep. And in slumber bade farewell to the month of August, and welcomed the dawn of September's morn. (From August 31, Alma O. Taylor's Journal.) Outline for a prayer meeting held in the woods near Yokohama, Sunday, September 1, 1901, by Apostle Heber J. Grant and his companion missionaries, Elders Louis A. Kelsch, Horace S. Ensign and Alma O. Taylor. Taken from the journal of Flder Alma O. Taylor: This being fast day we ate no breakfast, but went out into the woods about eleven o'clock to hold a prayer meeting. After about a twenty minutes' walk from our rooms, we came to a secluded spot in a small grove situated on the South slope of one of the rolling hills lying to the south of Yokohama, and about 
 Mid-way between the foreign residences on the Bluff and the bay. Sitting down in a circle on the ground, we opened our meeting by singing, "We thank thee, O God, for a prophet." Brother Grant offered the opening prayer which was followed with another prayer by Brother Kelsch. Sang, 'Now let us rejoice in the day of salvation," after which Brother Ensign continued in prayer, and without changing from our kneeling position our supplication was continued, myself being mouth. The principal features of our prayers were expressions of thanksgiving and praise to God; invocations for strength to perform the duties that rested upon us as missionaries in this land; and also that the Spirit of God would rest upon Apostle Grant to the extent that he would be able to offer up an acceptable dedicatory prayer: for the main object of our going into the woods was to dedicate this land unto the Lord for the proclamation of the gospel. After the four prayers had been offered up, we sang, "Come, come, ye Saints." We again knelt in a circle, and Brother Grant offered up the dedicatory prayer. His tongue was loosed and the Spirit rested mightily upon him; so much so that we felt the angels of God were near, for our hearts burned within us as the words fell from his lips. I never experienced such a peaceful influence or heard such a powerful prayer before. Every word penetrated into my very bones, and I could have wept for joy. The following is an outline of the prayer, as I remember it: (a) An appeal unto the Lord to hear the words that would be uttered, (b) An expression of thanks for the preservation of our lives; for the testimony of the gospel which we had in our hearts; and for the great blessing of being considered worthy, in the eyes of the Prophet of the Lord, to go as messengers of life and salvation unto a people who had never heard the gospel. (c) An entreaty for the forgiveness of our sins. (d) Dedication of the land for the proclamation of the truth, and for the bringing to pass of the purposes of the Lord concerning the gathering of Israel and the establishment of righteousness upon the earth.: (e) By the power of the Priesthood and in the name of Jesus, Satan was commanded to release his hold upon the minds of the people, and rebuked in his efforts to overcome the work of the Lord in this land. (f) 'Words of praise unto God for preserving the people of Japan from the power of the Great and Abominable Church, and that he had blessed the Japanese with sufficient knowledge to see the shallowness of the man-made Christianity which was sought to be introduced among them. OPENING OF THE CHINESE REALM. 201 (g) Petitioned the Lord to touch the hearts of the people, that they might know that we were men of virtue, honor, and devotion, and that we had come among them to do them good; that. Their minds might be directed into channels of religious thought, and their hearts prepared to recognize the truth when it was declared unto them, being even as sheep, quick to recognize the voice of the shepherd. (h) Thanks for the talents with which we had been blessed and a dedication of them to the work of the Lord. (i) A request that we be endowed with every qualification needed in opening up this mission. (j) A prayer for the Church and the Priesthood. (k) 'A personal mention of the goodness of the Lord in preserving the life of Apostle Grant during the severe attack of sickness which he had been called upon to pass through some years ago; when he was given up to die by nearly all his friends. He felt that the Lord had restored him to come upon this mission. (1) Thanks for the companions which he had. For the integrity of Brother Kelsch, who had been in the mission field for the past ten years, but was willing to come to this land and continue his labors for the salvation of souls; for the ready heart of Brother Ensign in responding cherfully to the call to go out and preach the gospel, in spite of the fact that he had but lately returned from a mission to Colorado; and for his youthful companion, "even Alma," who in spite of his youth had been favored of the Lord with much intelligence and knowledge, and a love for the truth which caused him to accept joyfully the call to come to this land and devote himself to the spread of truth. He asked his heavenly Father to continue in blessing me with further knowledge and power to use the same in righteousness, that I might become as Alma of old, full of the Spirit, and powerful in the Word of God. (m) Words of gratitude for the love that we had for each other and the unity which existed among us. (n) A request that the Three Nephites would visit us and assist us in our work. (0) Spoke of the righteousness of Lehi and of the great faith of Nephi in doing whatsoever the Lord commanded him. Also spoke of those, who, because of iniquity, had been cut off from among the Nephites and cursed with a dark skin, like unto the Lamanites, the blood of Lehi and Nephi had been transmitted unto the people of this land, many of whom have the features and manners of the American Indians. Asked the Lord that if this were true, that he would not forget the integrity of his servants Lehi and Nephi, and would verify the promises made unto them GROUP OF JAPANESE MISSION 1, President Heber J. Grant; 2, Horace Ensign; 3, Alma O. Taylor; 4, Erastus L. Jarvis; 5, John W. Slater; 6, Fred. A. Caine; 7, Sanford W. Hedges; 8, Joseph F. Featherstone; 9, Augusta W. Grant; 10, Maimie W. Ensign; 11, Mrs. Jos. F. Featherstone; 12, Mary Grant (Judd).