
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 1, 1877.	NO. 1.


[For the EXPONENT.
A BIRTHDAY TRIBUTE,
	1st of June, 1877.

Brigham! Brigham Young! this honored name
Calls for no titles to enhance its fame;
When names are render'd mighty by good deeds,
Titles are dropt as husks that bore the seeds;
The name alone is all that need be traced,
By that the marble is in beauty graced;
And that alone an epitaph will form
To those now living, and to those unborn;

Assembled here upon this bright June day
We meet our fealty, and our love to pay;
"The June is in us," while we mingle here,
Our spirit-voice sends up a grateful cheer
To Him who dwells in yonder heaven above,
Almighty Majesty—but enthroned in love!
To Him our voices and our hearts we raise,
In adoration, and in grateful praise,
That He has given to us this wise, good man
To counsel Israel, and to lead the van;
Not on the battle field, but in the halls
Where God's theology sends forth her calls,
By Brigham's voice—the delegate of heaven,
Where all the masses can inhale the leaven;
And catch the spirit which his words infuse
The evil learn to shun—the good to choose;
And learn to be a Saint of latter days—
Learn how to live, and how to pray and praise,
And learn to think, and understand, and see,
The truth of God, that makes all people free!
Yes, glorious truth in nudity sublime,
Needing no veil around her, sacred shrine!
No chain encircling neck, or feet, or hands,
But in unfettered nudity she stands!
Yes, free from every trammel man has made,
Sublime in beauty is her form display'd,
That form erect, and towering to the skies,
God's glorious handmaid stands before our eyes!
Such truth is Liberty! her other name,
But in essential, is indeed the same!
Such is the theme that Brigham, far and wide,
Preaches to all the church—and all outside!
His voice is open and his teachings clear
To saint, or sinner, who will lend an ear;
Through life's best years this God-appointed man,
Has preach'd the gospel—God's appointed plan
To save, regenerate, and to blend in one
All dispensations that through time have run!
In one grand brotherhood of peace and love
Prepared to welcome from the realms above
Our great Redeemer to his purchased earth!
When all creation shall receive new birth!
And Christ, and God, and all the saints be one,
The warfare ended, and the vict'ry won!

Father! on this auspicious morn we humbly bear
Before thy throne, in one united prayer
Our Leader! and we ask that he
By thy good spirit may supported be;
Shield him from all that would engender strife,
Through all the coming years of future life:
While life can be enjoyed extend his span
To all the years that's meted out to man;
The evening of his days—Oh! may it close
In bright refulgence, and in sweet repose;
Like day's grand orb declining in the west
"Life's fitful fever" ended, all is rest.

	HANNAH T. KING.
SALT LAKE CITY, June 1st, 1877.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.]
				HEALTH.

	How melancholy the thought when one
reflects upon the deplorable condition of the
world to-day; how far its inhabitants have
wandered from the ways of God, the laws
of nature, until the whole earth has become
one great house of disease; and surely it is
now that it has reached its zenith of cor-
ruption. Where you find one healthy, well-
developed body, you find hundreds, who,
though too ignorant in regard to these
matters, to be aware of the sad reality, have

[Column 2]
the seeds of death and disease so deeply im-
planted in their vitals, that nothing but one
grand revolution, one great change of their
whole lives will be able to uproot it. What
is this change, and how can it be accom-
plished? Simply by strictly observing the
pure and holy laws of nature. In no other
way can it be brought about; so far have the
inhabitants of the earth departed from
these laws that they have almost forgotten
them, and everywhere we see the result of
their folly. Instead of the fine, healthy,
bright-eyed baby, we see the pale, sickly,
ill-formed one; and instead of a robust,
well-developed maiden at nineteen, we find
her delicate and undeveloped, who after
taking upon herself the responsibilities of
wedded life, bears offspring still more puny
than the mother—they grow unflourish-
ngly for a few brief months, years perhaps
—and thus does one generation exceed the
other in disease and decay. But how are
we to become healthy? Air, water, diet,
dress, exercise, occupation and manner of
living must be duly considered; and climate?
—where can we find a healthy climate?
Our own, here in Utah, is delightful; our
pure mountain air is exceedingly conducive
to health; this accounts, in part, for the
"rosy-cheeked Mormon girls," as they are
frequently styled by strangers visiting our
city. Our mountain air associated with a
correct method of living, would tend to
make us the most healthy, vigorous class of
people on the earth. The following is what
Mrs. Helen Hunt says in regard to health;
taken from the "Laws of Life."
	"I have now learned that if no law of
health were ever broken, we need never
have a day's illness, might grow old in en-
tire freedom from suffering, and gradually
fall asleep at last, instead of dying terrible
deaths from disease; and I am all the time
wishing that I had known it when I was
young. If I had known it, I'll tell you what
I should have done. I would just have
tried the experiment at any rate, of never
doing a single thing which could by any
possibility injure or put out of order any
portion of my body. I wish I could see some
boy or girl try it yet; never to sit up late at
night; never to have a close bad air in the
room; never to sit with wet feet; never to
wet them were it possible to help it; never
to go out in the cold weather without being
properly wrapped up; never to go out of a
hot room into a cold out-door air without
throwing some extra wrap on; never to eat
or drink an unwholesome thing; never to
touch tea, or coffee, or candy or pie-crust;
never to let a day pass without at least two
good hours of exercise in the open air; nev-
er to read a word by twilight nor in the
cars; never to let the sun be shut out of
rooms. This is a pretty long list of "nevers,"
but "never" is the only word that con-
quers. "Once-in-awhile" is the very watch-
word of temptation and defeat. I do be-
lieve that the "once-in-awhile" things have
ruined more bodies and more souls too, than
all the other things put together. More-
over, the "never" way is easy, and the
"once-in-awhile" way is hard. After you
have once made up your mind "never" to do
a thing, that is the end of it, if you are a
sensible person. But if you only say, "This

[Column 3]
is a dangerous indulgence; I will be a little
on my guard and not do it too often," you
have put yourself in the most uncomforta-
ble of all positions; the temptation will
knock at your door twenty times a day,
and you will have to be fighting the same
old battle over and over again as long as
you live."
					PURPLE BERRY.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. JULIA Ward Howe sailed for Eu-
rope Saturdly, May 12.
	The Cincinnatti Woman's Temperance
Union holds meetings daily which are large-
ly attended.
	A CLAIM has been made upon William
H. Vanderbilt, by Tennie C. Claffin for
over $100,000, the proceeds, she alleges,
of $10,000 deposited by her in Commodore
Vanderbilt's hands in 1871 for speculative
operations in stocks. Mr. Vanderbilt says
the claim is ridiculous.
	THE PERMANENT EXHIBITION.—On the
10th of May the opening ceremonies took
place at Philadelphia, in the presence of
President Hayes, ex-President Grant, and
other notables, with an audience of 50,000
people. Bishop Stevens, of the Protestant 
Episcopal church, offered the prayer, and
Centennial hymns, by O. W. Holmes, and
Whittier were sung. The Courts were ad-
journed; the Board of Brokers, the Com-
mercial Exchange, the Produce Exchange
and public offices were closed. The day
was observed throughout the city as a holi-
day, and the Exhibition was inaugurated
with considerable "eclat".—Ex.
	A PETITION from the women of Louisi-
ana, containing the signatures of one
thousand real estate owners and tax payers,
presented in the House of Representatives
recently, inaugurates a new movement in
Louisiana, viz: the equality of women be-
fore the law. For several weeks a number
of the more prominent ladies of the city
have been quietly organizing this new de-
parture, and the leaders allege in their pe-
tition that fully one-half the real estate in
Louisiana is owned by women and one half
the revenues are of their contribution. But
for the late hour in which the petition was 
presented, it was proposed to submit a bill
requesting our Representative in Congress
to advocate a sixteenth amendment to the
constitution for the benefit of women.—
New Orleans Democrat.


AN elevated purpose is a good and enno-
bling thing. but we cannot begin at the
top of it. We must work up to it by the of-
ten difficult path of daily duty—of daily
duty always carefully performed.


AN honest reputation is within the reach
of all men; they obtain it by social virtues,
and by doing their duty. This kind of rep-
utation, it is true, is neither brilliant nor
startling, but it is often the most useful for
happiness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

			SPRINGVILLE, May 5th, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	I enclose you a brief report of a meet-
ing of the Young Ladies Retrenchment
Association, held in the meeting house
April 25, 1877. After the usual opening
exercises, Mrs. Dr. Ferguson of Provo ad-
dressed the Association on the subject of
woman's dress and its relations; she said
the present fashionable mode of dressing
outraged all the laws of health, and is also
the cause of much valuable time being
spent foolishly in making clothes which are
elaborately trimmed, besides being a waste
of means which should be used to assist in
building temples, and for other charitable
purposes; she said that those Babylonish
fashions should not be practiced by a Re-
trenchment Society, that they should strive
to retrench from every thing that is evil,
not only from extravagance in dress, but
from every evil that gives no profit, and
seek to have pure, intelligent minds and to
take an interest in all matters that tend to
the development of good. She also gave
some very valuable instructions in regard
to tight lacing and its results. Showed the
necessity of us becoming a self-sustaining
people, and of storing grain. She express-
ed the pleasure she felt in meeting with the
young ladies, and prayed the Lord to blessthem. Other remarks were made and the
meeting was one long to be remembered by
all who were present.
			KATE HOUTZ, Cor. Sec'y.

	MARRIOTTVILLE, WEBER COUNTY,
					April 21st, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Knowing your deep interest in all that
concerns the welfare of Zion, and especial-
ly in the efforts of the sisters to carry out
the counsels given through the servants of
God, we send to you a report of one of our
Relief Society meetings, held at the resi-
dence of Elder John Marriott, March 20,
1877.
	The meeting having been called to order
by the president, Mrs. Anne Bickington, the
Scandinavian sisters present engaged in
singing in their native tongue; after prayer
and singing by the choir, Mrs. Nancy M.
Tracy offered some resolutions for the ac-
ceptance of the meeting in regard to do-
nating for Temples, storing grain and oth-
er public purposes. A committee was ap-
pointed to see after these matters. From
the reports of the visiting teachers, it ap-
pears that a good feeling prevails and a
willingness exhibited to further all good
works, and to build up the kingdom. They
report the receipt of six dollars and twenty-
five cents for the Temple fund, and one dol-
lar and sixty-five cents for the society fund
for the past month. The sisters present at
the meeting bore testimonies to the truth
of the work were engaged in as Lat-
ter-day Saints, expressing their determina-
tion to carry out the counsels of the Priest-
hood, and to adhere to the resolutions
adopted at the meeting.
	Bro. John Marriott encouraged the sis-
ters to persevere in storing grain as they
had been counseled to do. The following
sisters are the committee appointed to re-
ceive the grain of Lynne and Marriottville.
S. Thomas, B. C. Christopherson, M. Gates,
M. Horrop, E. Salisbury, E. Marriott, and
A. Tracy.

[Column 2]
	The meeting was adjourned to meet
again at the expiration of four weeks, at
Lynne.
	Anne Bickington, President;
	Lydia Gates,			}	Counselors.
	Nancy Naomi Tracy,	}
	Catherine Parry, Secretary.

		PINE VALLEY, April 29, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our president and all interested in our
Relief Society, desire to unite their testi-
mony with that of other Societies, and ex-
press their pleasure in carrying out the
counsel given to the different societies. A
good spirit prevails among the sisters, and
a united effort to carry out the instruction
of President Young in regard to laying up
grain; we commenced this season and cal-
culate if the Lord blesses us with crops an-
other year, to do more; we donated largely
to the St. George Temple, and truly feel to
rejoice that we have a Temple completed
so near us, it being only thirty miles from
this place. The young ladies have a Re-
trenchment Association; they hold their
meetings twice a month and enjoy them-
selves in the good work in which they are
engaged.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel,
							M. BURGESS.

			SPRING CITY, SANPETE Co..
						May 13, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT;
	We held our eighth Annual Meeting May
3rd. A good spirit prevails here among
the sisters, they are one with the President
M. A. P. Hyde, to do all they can in the
good work in which they are engaged, ac-
cording to their circumstances. The re-
ports are favorable for the past year. The
teachers and other sisters take great pains
in looking after and caring for the poor,
sick and needy, of whom there are quite a 
number, according to the size of the place.
Mrs. Frantzen is energetic in her duties as
treasurer, turning everything to advantage,
so that our means increase in her hands to
the benefit of the Society.
	We are gathering and storing away all
the wheat we can, and have about one hun-
dred and thirty bushels on hand. We have
one city lot fenced, and one hundred mul-
berry trees planted, and ground prepared
for five hundred more as soon as we can pro-
cure them. In our last meeting it was ar-
ranged for the sisters to unite in companies
to make cheese for ourselves and to donate
to the temple. The sisters are also making
articles of clothing for the brethren who
work on the temple, such as socks, gloves,
quilts and other useful articles; and all are
willing to exert themselves to forward the
work of the temples; and also willing to
comply with the laws of the UNITED OR-
DER, explained to us by Elders Taylor and
Pratt, and taught us from time to time
by President Hyde.
	Bishop Olsen encourages us to go on as
we have hitherto done, as he was very
much pleased with our proceedings.
	Another small matter which may be wor-
thy of notice: about three years ago, Mrs.
Hyde proposed that every member of the
society give one egg in every month and
an account be kept separately of it to see
how much it would amount to; some per-
sons think if they cannot donate liberally,
they will not do anything, and Mrs. Hyde's
idea was to give every one a chance that
none might feel slighted in not having their
names with the workers, but that all might

[Column 3]
feel free and equal and have a lively inter-
est in the sisters work. This fund during
the last three years has amounted to the
sum of sixty-five dollars.
	Praying the Lord to bless all the Relief
Societies, and the saints whereever they
are, I remain your sister in the Gospel.
					P. E. Benson, Sec'y.
	SALEM, UTAH, April 22, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have been somewhat negligent in writ-
ing to inform you that the Relief Society
of this place have responded to the call of our
beloved President Brigham Young, in regard
to storing grain. The sisters met the 11th
of January 1877, and chose a committee
to solicit donations of grain, and a treasur-
er to keep account of the same. Bro. S.
P. Christensen has given us the use of one
of his bins until we see proper to make oth-
er arrangements. A good spirit seems to
prevail among the sisters and they realize
that storing grain is essential to temporal
salvation. We are also gathering up means
to assist in building the temple in Salt Lake
City, and feel to respond to all the calls
made upon us as far as our means will al-
low.
	With best wishes for your success, I re-
main as ever, your sister in the Gospel.
			MATILDA P. KILLIAN,
						Secretary.

			TOOELE CITY, May 2, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Seventh Annual Report of the Re-
lief Society of Tooele is as follows:

	Total amount donated in the
		year 1876.............................. $ 41 90
	Property in Treasury, cash
		and other things...................    51 65	Five shares in sheep herd, $25
		per share...............................  125 00
	Disbursed to the needy, and for
		other practicable purposes... 158 43.

	This last season we united with the
Library Association in building a large So
cial Hall to belong exclusively to the Re-
lief Society and Library Association, which
we have no doubt will be of great benefit to
our young people. We have contributed
between twelve and thirteen hundred dol-
lars already, and expect, if all is well this
summer, the inside of the building will be
finished. Our Society is in a good condi-
tion; the sisters feel determined to do their
duty in helping to build up the kingdom
of God, realizing that God's purposes are
being fulfilled, and that His kingdom will
last forever, whether we prove ourselves
worthy citizens or not. We rejoice very
much in the teachings given through the
EXPONENT:
	The good, the joy from it may spring
				Eternity can tell.
	On Friday, the 6th of May, we were fav-
vored with a visit from Bishop Wm. G.
Young, who gave us valuable instruction in
regard to training our children, and several
other items of great interest to benefit and
encourage us to walk in the path that
leads to eternal life.
	That we may be kept humble and prayer-
ful before the Lord, and secure the prize
that is before us, is the prayer of your sis-
ters in the Gospel convenant,
					MRS. MEIKLEJOHN.
					EMILY WARBURTON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT
THE SUMMER HOURS.

Balmy and fragrant is the breath of June,
	And summer days;
And nature's rhythm in harmony attune,
	Gladdens our ways.
The bright, warm sunshine cheers us with its beams
And joy comes gushing with the dancing streams,
	Which bode us good,
Giving sweet promise of the buds and flowers,
	And verdant wood,
And all the golden wealth of pleasant hours,

Fair as the rosy blush of early dawn
	Doth summer come;
Clover and daisies scent the dewy lawn,
	And insects hum,
Mingles with songs of birds in tuneful voice
And in the chorus all our hearts rejoice,
	And welcome now
Prophetical, these signs that summer brings
	Upon her brow,
Which speak to us of happier things.

O, sorrowing soul look up! Be glad once more!
	For hope shall rise
Triumphant, now the winter storms are o'er,
	And to our eyes
Earth seems like Eden, where ere long shall reign
The peace, which crowns the night of gloom and pain.
	O, child of fear!
Seest though not now, from out the withered sod,
	The grass appear;
E'en this, "betokens the dear love of God."

"Our Father" left us here some dear delight
	Our souls to greet
Great nature's splendor bursting on our sight
	Brings mem'ries sweet,
And summer breezes wafted from the skies;
Breathe whisp'rings of the realms of Paradise;
	And seem to kiss,
Our wearied heads with soothing tenderness,
	Foretaste of bliss,
When love supreme shall crown our happiness.

Summer, with roses blushing everywhere,
	And lilies sweet,
And all its wealth of flowers and foliage fair,
	Makes more complete
The yearnings for immortal fruits and flowers
Which erst we tasted in lost Eden's bow'rs
	And brings to mind
The tree of knowledge on that happy shore
	We left behind,
Which we must reach to hunger nevermore.

	EMILE.
S. L. CITY, May 29, 1877.


[Column 1]

A FEW REFLECTIONS.

(CONTINUED.)

	To the honorable men of the world, and
especially those who claim to be the fathers
of the people and guardians of the law, and
to divines set in judgment to deal out jus-
tice to their constituents, to illustrate clear-
ly my subject, I will call this Gospel, you
so much desire to destroy, a tree, (if you
please) and one which attracts attention
by its rapid growth; one which has made
itself a history, which you should become
thoroughly acquainted with, for it betrays
poor generalship not to understand the pos-
ition the enemy hold ; and a laborer in the
vineyard must be a novice indeed who does
not know that in order to subdue a foul
plant or obnoxious tree, it must be taken
up by the roots and not a vestige of the
root be found in the ground, or it will as-
suredly, after a season shoot up again.
	Your predecessors committed the same
error you meditate, which will lead you as-
tray; they began by disrobing the tree of
its tender leaves and branches, despoiling
it of its beauty, but finding the tree still
stood and put forth new tendrils they did
all they could against it. The branches
were broken off and scattered and the tree
felled to the earth as they supposed, to
flourish no more. This was on the eve of
the Dark Ages. The tree was forgotten
and the spot where it once stood lost sight
of, or if ever recalled alluded to as a thing

[Column 2]

of the past; but like our trees which are
broken down and the ground left barren to
all appearance, through the cold bleak win-
ter, but when the spring comes and the
sun gives his warmth and light to the earth
and all nature seems to smile, the roots put
forth again and before we are aware of it
there is the exact similitude of the old tree.
Just so with this polygamic or patriarchal
tree; the sun has arisen in his majesty and
power and poured down his effulgence of
warm light; summer has come, that is, the
light of truth has again shed forth its pro-
pitious rays and the fruits of its effects are
seen, the branches are spreading abroad and
are very prolific, bearing much fruit; and
wise presidents, judges and divines, it is
your duty before you proceed further in this
matter to analyze and know without a
doubt that the tree is bad, and as I have
been taken from among the wild branches
and grafted into the tree and grown with
its growth and strengthened with its
strength, and have searched and reflected
much concerning it, perhaps you will allow
me to assist in your researches: I believe
the necessary knowledge can be easily ob-
tained, for it is written, "Can a bitter or
corrupt tree bring forth good fruit?" Doubt-
less you are all believers in God, and some
are ecclesiastics, and as such, without re-
serve acknowledge God as the Supreme
Judge, and as He claims this earth as His
vineyard, we must allow Him to accept or
condemn as seemeth Him good, and He
plainly says that He judges a tree by the
fruit thereof.
	In doing this we take sacred history, our
Holy Bible, which all the Christian world
profess to believe in, and as we turn its pa-
ges we find it contains a few items in re-
gard to this patriarchal tree, and learn
whether God ever accepted the fruit of it.
In Gen. iv Chap., 25 verse, we find the first
account of a man having a plurality of
wives, "and he said unto his wives Adah
and Zillah, hear ye my voice, ye wives of
Lamech, for I have slain a man to my
wounding and a young man to my hurt."
The spirit of his speech does not infer tht
he considers himself guilty of any crime
except that of killing the young man. We
will look at Gen. xv chap. 1 verse, here
we find a man whom God has spoken to
saying, "Fear not Abram I am thy shield
and exceeding great reward," and in the
18 verse it reads "the Lord made a cove-
nant with Abram saying, "unto thy seed
have I given the land," &c., and as he is
thus favored of the Lord, we will trace his
history and see what transpired with him
in his day. Gen. 16 chap., 3 verse, "and
Sarai, Abram's wife took Hagar her maid,
and gave her to her husband to be his
wife," and now what will the Lord of the
vineyard do to this man who has so willing-
ly become the husband of two wives. With
him we must begin the history of the po-
lygamic tree; read from the 7th to the 12th
verses and see how an angel of the Lord
conversed with a plural wife, but perhaps
one might say she was not so much to
blame as her mistress, as she was but a ser-
vant, but the man, is he not to be brought
to an account for such a rash act, or can he
justify himself by saying "the woman gave
her to me." Let us search further and
find what is said about them. In the 15th
and 16th verses is the account of Ishmael
being born. How different was Abram from
the generality of men now-a-days, he not
only calls Hagar his wife but acknowledges
the child as his son, thus shielding him
from all reproach. In the xvii chapt. there
is an account of the Lord appearing again
unto Abram and instead of chastening

[Column 3]

him He ratifies His former covenant with
him and said "thy name shall no more be call-
ed Abram, but Abraham, for a father of many
nations have I made thee," and in another
place He says "I will make you exceeding-
ly fruitful and will establish my covenant
between me and thee and thy seed after
thee in their generations, for an everlasting
covenant to be a God unto thee and thy seed
after thee." It appears to me, by this that
all who believe the Old Testament must un-
derstand that God loved the old polygamic
tree, for he does not condemn this man, but
on the contrary says that in this fruit shall
all the nations of the earth be blessed, and
He knows the tree and its fruit.
	To be continued.


THOUGHTS SUGGESTED BY READING
THE EXPONENT.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	When I read your excellent paper and re-
alize the great work you are striving to ac-
complish in removing prejudice and cor-
recting the many evil reports which gain
such wide circulation throughout the world
in regard to the women of Utah; my heart
is lifted with gratitude to the Supreme Ru-
ler, that I have been permitted to live to
behold this blessed day, when a few of the
noble, brave women of our church have had
the courage to lead out in the great work to
which you have devoted yourselves, that
of showing to the world our true position,
both socially and religiously; proving to
them that we are far from being the poor,
ignorant, oppressed women they have rep-
resented us to be. We believe we can rep-
resent ourselves much better than our
would be sympathizers, (but really covert
enemies) could or would represent us. Let
us be firm in our convictions for right and
defend faithfully the principles of our holy
religion, as revealed by our martyred
Prophet, and by his rightful successor Presi-
dent Brigham Young. We can show to the 
world that we are free to believe what we 
please without any coercion whatever, and 
are capable of judging matters intelligent-
ly and what we do receive is with a firm
conviction of its Divine Origin. We know
that the principles of Plural Marriage and
<and of="" thetinited="" order.are="" from="" hcaven.and="" if,="" carried="" out="" in,the="" mannpr="" the="" lord="" intond,="" ed="" .they="" should="" be,-="" ,wnon="" rovpaledwouldl,="" perfect.this="" people="" as="" they="" must="" bp="" peifect-="" ifthey="" desire="" to="" enjoy="" a="" celestial="" inher-="" itaijco.="" :="" i="" have="" lived="" jn,="" plu.rpl="" marriage="" raorp="" than="" tvypnfy.years,="" nnd.aithough'="" my="" path="" has="" not="" always="" been="" strow.n="" with="" roses,="" but="" on="" contrary,="" bepn‘a="" very="" tjiorny="" one="" at="" times="" npver="" doubted="" di-="" vyuty.="" o"f="" its="" origin.="" .="" a’="" imvsdh'="" cewainjy="" gains="" an="" experience="" fii="" this="" order5;="" o'f="" mar-="" ’="" ri'wo'that="" hover="" could="" be="" gained="" 'in="" any="" r-="" opiev="" wnyv="" diseiplihe="" them-'1="" selves'iii="" elf-dehiat'chafity="" rind="" devotion="" to'the="" interests="" others,'="" and="" without="" these'-="" can="" attain="" degree="" excel-="" lence.="" u3'each="" live="" so="" that="" we="" will="" bring="" reproach="" upon="" divine="" principle.="" for="" daughters,="" would.much="" prefer="" them="" marry.men="" dozen,="" wives,="" if="" were="" staqnch,="" faithful,="" men.-imthis="" church,="" tb="" these="" fast="" young-="" men="" vvvho="" are="" already="" wedded="" many="" vicious="" habits,="" which="" would="" sure="" to.,="" lead="" into,="" fori="" think="" there="" would,="" n..="" much="" better="" chance,for="" happiness="" -in,="" .this="" life="" in="" comp,..="" <="" div="">of the United Order are from heaven, and if
carried out in the manner the Lord intend-
ed they should be, when revealed, would
perfect this people as they must be perfect-
ed if they desire to enjoy a Celestial Inher-
itance. I have lived in Plural Marriage
more than twenty years, and although my
path has not always been strewn with roses,
but on the contrary, has been a very thorny
one at times I have never doubted the di-
vinity of its origin. A person certainly
gains an experience in this order of mar-
riage that never could be gained in any
other way. They must discipline them-
selves in self-denial, charity, and devotion
to the interests of others, and without these
they never can attain any degree of excel-
lence.
	Let us each one live so that we will not
bring reproach upon this Divine principle.
As for my daughters, I would much prefer
them to marry men with a dozen wives, if
they were staunch, faithful men in this
church, than to any of these fast young
men who are already wedded to so many
vicious habits, which they would be sure to
lead them into, forI think there would be a
much better chance for happiness in this 
life and in the life to come.
	S. M. P.


4		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREENE RICHARDS,			} Editors.
EMMLLINE B. WELLS.				}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms:  One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one 
Mme, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate.  Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 1, 1877.


THE NEW VOLUME—AND THE
WOMEN OF UTAH.

	Our readers are aware this number ushers in
the sixth volume of the EXPONENT, and we
look forward with bright anticipation to the
glorious work it may accomplish as it advan-
ces from year to year. It has been dedicated
to the work of improvement, and consecrated
by thousands upon thousands of prayers and
blessings earnestly offered up by the women
of the Latter-day Saints. It not only finds its
way into the homes of the people of this Ter-
ritory, but it has gone as a glad messenger of
salvation to some of the most remote quarters
of the globe, and has cheered, comforted and
inspired to noble purposes those who have read
and comprehended the power and blessing now
being made manifest among the women who
are represented as the offscouring of the earth.
Women who have proved themselves true to
the requirements of heaven, and willing to lay
all upon the altar of their faith. Their star is
rising, and ere long they will take a higher
rank in the annals of history. Babylonian
fashions and customs with their pride and
pomp and sham, are beneath the notice of the
saints of God; they have been called to a high-
er and holier calling; to fulfill a mission which
will stand unparalleled in woman's records.
It will require all the ability, energy, faith and
integrity that can be brought into requisition.
The thorough system for the storing of grain
against a day of famine, which has been com-
menced and is still in operation among the wo-
men of Utah, is certainly one step in advance
of any set or organization of women upon the
face of the earth. Let us not be dilatory when
such great issues are at stake. There is noth-
ing which is of more consequence to this peo-
ple than the preparation which must be made
for the terrible calamities which are to come,
and will come upon the inhabitants of the
earth. The women of this kingdom should
awake to the great responsibilities which are
resting upon them, and be sure they are doing
all that is possible to preserve themselves and
those near and dear to them, from the evils
and temptations which surround them on
every hand.
	The very fact that woman is the subject of
so much discussion at the present day, shows
that there is a reality in the work she is ef-
fecting, and it proves, moreover, that men who
are so afraid of woman stepping out of her
sphere feel that the power she holds is po-
tent. If not, why should they care? They are
fearful lest woman's spiritual nature acting in
and with her, and forming a characteristic
feature of all the movements in progression,
should so improve the condition of the sex at
large, that their power over them will be sensi-


bly weakened, consequently woman will speak
and act for herself and mothers instruct their
daughters to fill higher places than to be the
menials only, or worse than that,of wicked and
corrupt men. The women of Utah know
something of these duties and obligations,
some things have already been revealed to 
them "and more remains to be revealed here-
after." If they carry out the instructions already
given them they will become all that the most
ambitious could desire.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]

HOME AFFAIRS.

	SILK RAISING.—Brother Thomas W. Win-
ter has established a cocoonery in the Fifth
Ward, for the purpose of raising silk worms
and producing silk. The room is 16 x 18 feet,
and he has planted out a quantity of mulberry
trees. He calls the establishment "The Fifth
Ward oocoonery.
	WE RECEIVED a call from O. T. B. Williams,
Editor "Nebraska Atlas," and L. B. Fifield, re-
gent of University, State of Nebraska, and editor
of the paper, Kearney; these gentlemen ex-
pressed themselves pleased with the city and
its surroundings, and anxious to ascertain the
truth in regard to the institutions and improve-
ments here.
	GEN. TOM Thumb and wife gave their char-
acteristic entertainment in the theatre Mon-
day and Tuesday, May 28 and 29, Miss Susie
Spencer was the recipient of a Benefit at the
theatre Saturday evening, May 26; she arrang-
ed for the occasion a varied and interesting
programme. The comedy of "Pet of The Pet-
ticoats," songs, music, and the balcony scene
from Romeo and Juliet.
	THERE was a free excursion to Lake Point
tendered to all the Sunday School Superin-
tendents and Teachers in Salt Lake City, on
Thursday, May 24th. About 550 persons ac-
companied the excursion and enjoyed them-
selves in various ways. Olsen's and Wetzel's
bands discoursed sweet music. President
John W. Young, Elder George Q. Cannon and
a few friends with some newly arrived Sicilian
brethren and sisters, went over in the after-
noon to participate with the company in their
amusements. These Sicilians display unusual
musical talent, vocal and instrumental.
	A FINE DISPLAY of military on Decoration
Day on the streets of Salt Lake, and from
thence to Camp Douglas; programme for the
day: Prayer, dirge, orations, music, poem and
recitation by Mrs. M. M. Bane; we were ex-
ceedingly pleased to see one lady's name on the
list of proceedings though we had not the
pleasure of hearing her. Women did much to
alleviate the sorrows and sufferings of the brave
men who were wounded and who fell in the
late war and they should have the privilege of
commemorating these sad events, more nobly
than dressing for the occasion and st ewing
flowers.  This is a very beautiful tribute, but
words will live in the hearts of those who hear.
	ON WEDNESDAY May 27, a meeting con-
vened in the Relief Society Hall for the Organ-
ization of the young ladies of the Sugar House
Ward, Mrs. S. B. Gibson, president of the Re-
lief Society of the Ward presided. Bishop
Wm. Smoot, and E'ders Mc Ghee and Robson
were present. Miss E. R. Snow, assisted by
Mrs. Gibson attended to the organization.
The meeting was addressed by Mrs. Gibson,
Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. P. Woodruff, Mrs. B.
W. Smith, Mrs. L. A. Wells, Mrs. E. B. Wells,
and M[-]s E. S. Barney. Mrs. E. H. Whitney
sung a song of Zion. Bishop Smoot and Elder

[Column 2]

Robson made appropriate and suggestive re-
marks. We can but congratulate the Society
of that ward on the construction of a good
house, well-finished and partly fitted up.
	THE GENERAL Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on
Saturday May 26, was interesting and largely
attended. Mrs M. I. Horne presided. Miss
E. R. Snow spoke upon home-industry and
said it was THE mission of the sisters at the
present day. It was essential to the best inter-
ests of Zion that the sisters should be energet-
ic and persevering in this noble enterprise.
Mrs. S. M. Kimball gave an interesting ac-
count of her visit to St. George and the Tem-
yle. Mrs. Irons, president of the Relief Socie-
ty at Moroni, Sanpete County, gave the sisters
some items in regard to the state of the Relief
Society of that place, and bore a faithful testi-
mony to the Latter-day work. Mrs. A. Tuft,
Mrs. E. S. Barney, Mrs. M. E. A. Watmough
and Mrs. W. East, each spoke upon subjects
connected with the work.
	THE WOMAN'S Commission House has a
large supply of lady's shoes, manufactured in
Brigham City, for home markets, also a very
great variety of beautiful artificial flowers,
made by the sisters in Brigham City and Ne-
phi. We think that it would be advisable for
some of the sisters to make up some lady's and
Misses underclothing, and children's suits, and
put them into the Woman's Store for sale.
There are many of these things made up in
the East and brought here and sold, when our
sisters might have the profit of the making.
Another article which is brought here ready
made, is comforters for beds. There are many
who buy these articlas for winter, and for men
going to the mines and cañons, or for common
use, comforters made of the material manu-
factured here, linsey, or something strong,
would certainly be saleable. These arti-
cles a[-]e sold in the stores here all the time,
made of thinner material, calico or colored fac-
tory.
	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT:—This number is
the commencement of Volume Six. The EX-
PONENT is gaining a name and place as well as
influence; and ranks creditably with other
periodicals. No pains is spared to adapt it to
the wants and interests of the people. The ar-
ticles are selected and arranged with the great-
est care that nothing should appear to shock
the most delicate organization. We have been
accused of throwing articles aside. We do;
we should be sorry for our readers if we did
not; and for ourselves, we must answer to God
and our own conscience for what we publish.
Our desire is to make the paper the EXPONENT
of true principles and suited in tone and
phraseology to the condition of the people
whose interests we represent. The women of
Utah occupy an important position, and one
which all the world is waiting to see analyzed.
Then it behooves them to be wise, and move
cautiously, and it is better to be a little slow in
making statements, or advancing ideas, than
like too many of the leading women of the
day, have to retract, or retire from the encoun-
ter signally defeated. The Mormon women
will lead the van in the questions which are
being agitated among the sex, whatever the
world may think to the contrary. Many are
afraid to speak and talk of charity, but it is
high time to speak, and write and act wisely
and well. Therefore we would say to our pa-
trons, write your best thoughts lay before the
readers of the EXPONENT your best devised,
and most economical schemes for progression
in all that pertains to temporal and spiritual


salvation. Prove to our enemies that we have
something superior to them, something dearer
than all the glitter and tinsel of sentiment the
world possess. It is to the best interest of
every woman in Israel to sustain the EXPO-
NENT, for it gives them a power that is being
felt far and wide for good. Elders have said to
us that when out performing missionary labor,
the EXPONENT in their hands was an ef-
ficient help, and accomplished silent mission-
ary work more potent than they could do by
preaching long and loud.
	A SPECIAL CONFERENCE in the Ogden Tab-
ernacle in Ogden City, for the more thorough
organization of that Stake of Zion commenced
on Saturday morning, May 26, continuing
three days. President Brigham Young, his
counselors J. W. Young, and D. H. Wells and
several of the Twelve were present on the
stand with the presiding men and bi[-]hops of
that vicinity. Some very powerful and thril-
ling discourses were delivered, and most earn-
est appeals were made to the people by Presi-
dent Young and others who addressed them,
to live their religion more truly and consist-
ently and become united in temporal matters,
so as to be self-sustaining universally here in
Utah, and thus be enabled to control both la-
bor and capital, and preserve the interests of
Zion from being under the control of wicked
men who would rob the people of those rights
now in their power to retain for themselves.
President Young did considerable preaching
himself on Saturday afternoon, and Sunday
morning and afternoon. He explained the
true philosophy of life, which reached from
eternity to eternity, and how it would be pos-
sible to prepare to be in the presence of God
and receive the visitations of angels. That
the hypothesis the saints believe in is the
philosophy which enters into all truth, and all
knowledge, and embraces all intelligence until
they become as Gods; the course is onward and
upward, and God will fight the battles of the
saints, but they must purify and prepare them-
selves, by living in strict accordance to the
government of God. In our next we will give
more items from the discourses delivered in
Ogden by President Young, and others of the
Presidency and Twelve, to which we listened
with the most earnest attention and satisfac-
tion. The Spirit of God was poured out in
rich abundance manifesting itself to all who
understand its influence.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		5


[Column 1]
ITEMS FROM THE DIARY OF JOSEPH
		SMITH, THE PROPHET.

	"April 28, 1842.—At two o'clock, p. m., I met
the members of the "Relief Society," and af-
ter presiding at the admission of many new
members, gave a lecture on the Priesthood,
showing how the sisters would come into pos-
session of the privileges, blessings, and gifts of
the priesthood and that the signs should fol-
low them, such as healing the sick, casting out
devils, &c., and that they might attain unto
these blessings by a virtuous life, and conver-
sation, and diligence in keeping all the com-
mandments: a synopsis of which was reported
by Miss E. R. Snow.
	Prest. Joseph Smith arose and called the at-
tention of the meeting to the xii chapter 1st
Corinthians. "Now concerning spiritual gifts
I would not have you ignorant." Said that
the passage in the 3rd verse which reads, "No
man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by
the Holy Ghost," should be translated "no
man can know that Jesus is the Lord, but by
the Holy Ghost." He continued to read the
chapter, and give instructions respecting the

[Column 2]
different offices, and the necessity of every in-
dividual acting in the sphere allotted him or
her, and filling the several offices to which
they were appointed.
	He spoke of delivering the keys of the Priest-
hood to the church, and said that the faithful
members of the Relief Society should receive
them in connection with their husbands, that
the Saints whose integrity had been tried and
proved faithful, might know how to ask the
Lord and receive an answer; for according to
his prayers, God had appointed him elsewhere.
	He exhorted the sisters always to concen-
trate their faith and prayers for, and place con-
fidence in their husbands, whom God had
appointed for them to honor, and in those
faithful men whom God has placed at the head
of the church to lead His people; that we
should arm and sustain them with our prayers;
for the keys of the kingdom are about to be
given to them, that they may be able to de-
tect everything false; as well as to all the eld-
ers who shall prove their integrity in due sea-
son.
	He said if one member becomes corrupt, and
you know it, you must immediately put it
away, or it will either injure or destroy the
whole body. The sympathies of the heads of
the church have induced them to bear a long
time with those who were corrupt, until they
are obliged to cut them off, lest all become
contaminated; you must put down iniquity,
and by your good examples, stimulate the eld-
ers to good works; if you do right, there is no
danger of your going too fast.
	He said he did not care how fast we run in
the path of virtue; resist evil and there is no
danger; God, men and angels will not con-
demn those that resist everything that is evil,
and devils cannot; as well might the devil seek
to dethrone Jehovah, as overthrow an innocent
soul that resists everything which is evil.
	This is a charitable Society, and according to
your natures; it is natural for females to have
feelings of charity and benevolence. You are
now placed in a situation in which you can act
according to those sympathies which God has
planted in your bosoms.
	If you live up to those principles, how great
and glorious will be your reward in the celes-
tial kingdom! If you live up to your privi-
leges, the angels cannot be restrained from be-
ing your associates. Females if they are pure
and innocent, can come into the presence of
God; for what is more pleasing to God than in-
nocence; you must be innocent, or you cannot
come up before God; if we would come before
God we must keep ourselves pure, as he is
pure.
	The devil has great power to deceive; he will
so transform things as to make one gape at
those who are doing the will of God. You
need not be teasing your husbands because
of their deeds, but let the weight of your
innocence, kindness and affections be felt,
which is more mighty than a millstone hung
about the neck, not war, not jangle, not con-
tradiction, or dispute, but meekness, love, pu-
rity—these are the things that should magni-
fy you in the eyes of all good men. A change
must be brought to light, iniquity must be
purged out from the midst of the Saints, the
veil will be rent, and the blessings of heaven
will flow down—they will roll down like the
Mississippi river.
	If this Society listens to the counsel of the
Almighty, through the heads of the church,
they shall have power to command queens in
their midst.
	I now deliver it as a prophecy, if the inhab-
itants of this state with the people of the sur-
sounding country, will turn unto the Lord with

[Column 3]
all their hearts, ten years will not roll round
before the kings and queens of the earth will
come unto Zion, and pay their respects to the
leaders of this people; they shall come with
their millions, and shall contribute of their
abundance for the relief of the poor, and the
building up and beautifying of Zion.
	After this instruction, you will be responsi-
ble for your own sins; it is a desirable honor
that you should so walk before our heavenly
Father as to save yourselves. We are all re-
sponsible to God for the manner we improve
the light given by our Lord to enable us to
save ourselves.


ROYAL ART NEEDLEWORK.

	The English needlework exhibited at the
late Centennial Exhibition is again on ex-
hibition in the show room of the Royal
School of Art Needlework in South Ken-
sington. The Princess Christian is the Pres-
ident of the institution, the objects of
which, says the London Academy, are to
give suitable employment to gentlewo-
men who need employment, and to restore
ornamental needlework to the high place it
once held among the decorative arts. A
staff of lady workers has been carefully
trained to the work, and the result of the
continuous and unwearied exertions made
to keep up and improve the art sa[-]isfactor-
ily proves that ladies of the present day can
compete with their predecessors of bygone
centuries. The Princesses Christian and
Louise, Lady Marion Alford, Mr. W. Crane;
Mr. Hungerford Pollen, and other eminent
artists, have contributed their designs for
curtains, portieres, screnes and ottomans,
and every description of furniture capable
of needle work decoration. Particular at-
tention has been paid to the restoring and
repairing of ancient needlework. The spec-
imens exhibited are fine. A pair of velvet-
een curtains, with borders of conventional
sunflowers, made for the queen; a graceful
white lily border on red velvet, tastefully
designed by the Empress Louise; another of
cream-colored satin, a magnificent pattern,
evidently of Venetian origin, may be men-
tioned among the number.—The Watch-
man.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	ONE of the noblest women of the age is
Mrs. Josephine Butler. Her good works,
and devotion to the cause of woman are
worthy of great honor. At Liverpool Mrs.
Butler instituted what was called a "Home
of Rest," now enlarged into a "Home for
Incurables" and an Independent Home to
train young girls for service, &c. In 1874-
75, she traveled through Italy, Switzerland
and France in the cause of benefitting and
elevating woman, and exerted such an in-
fluence as to bring about the British Conti-
nental and General Federation against Gov-
ernment Regulation of Vice. Her success
should be an incentive to action for others
who are laboring for good, and against mod-
ern conventionalities. She is spoken of as
"of slight frame and a voice not remarkably
strong; yet she is easily heard in large as-
semblies, and by her careful arguments and
her sincere eloquence convinces her audi-
ence." Her mission is self-imposed to lift
up the fallen, and aid everywhere and in all
ways possible, for the suppression of vice.
She speaks and writes and plans in behalf
of her glorious and exalted work. To all
such we can safely say, God speed them in
all noble enterprises.


6		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
					For the EXPONENT.
			SIMPLICITY.

		TO THE SAINTS IN ZION.

	We are said to be creatures of habit.
We certainly are so to a great extent. We
are all, more or less, stamped with the dye
of education combined with the circum-
stances of early life, which constitute our
individual cast; by which we are fitted by
certain opinions and prejudices, and bound
to certain habits and customs, until we real-
ly become stereotyped in practice.
	When we enter the school of Jesus Christ,
the sooner we can divest ourselves, or become
divested of traditional cast—the sooner we
throw off the stereotyped edition of our-
selves; and like a plain proof-sheet, hold
ourselves subject to correction in all things,
and like little children, be ever ready to re-
ceive and adopt whatever tends to improve-
ment, the greater will be our attainment to-
wards that point which the Savior enjoined
on his disciples, saying "Be ye therefore
perfect, even as your Father in heaven is
perfect." To this end, we need to culti-
vate that truthful simplicity which like a
clear sunbeam, affords an extension of vis-
ion, far, far surpassing the utmost stretch
of all the telescopes of that ostentatious
formality, which clothes the affectation of
greatness with which the world abounds,
while simplicity exhibits the burnished
gem, with all its native lustre and brilliancy
undiminished, yet improved by the sculp-
tor's art. This feature was beautifully il-
lustrated in the character of Jesus Christ
during his life upon the earth. His origi-
nal worth and self-possessed dignity re-
quired no artificial support. Sensible of His
own superiority and greatness, and for the
time being, satisfied to be what he was; He
spared himself the trouble of endeavoring
to make every body understand and ac-
knowledge it. The life of Joseph Smith,
also, was a striking illustration of the
beauty of simplicity, as all will testify who
had the honor of his personal acquaintance.
	But we are under no necessity of refer-
ring to those who once lived; we have
plenty of living examples, both of male
and female; and they are in our midst, for
the greatest and the best on the earth are
here, the opinion of the world, to the con-
trary notwithstanding. For instance, is
there a greater than Brigham Young? Is
there one on whom rests a broader fold
of imperial dignity, as recognized by the
upper nobility? (By the way we do not con-
sult the opinion of the lower courts.) And
is there a more striking example of plain-
ness and simplicity? Does not this very
simplicity in him, beget love and admira-
tion in the hearts of this people?
	I always feel to shrink from the cold
formality—that heartless affectation of dig-
nity, where thought and feeling and every
native charm, are hid beneath the cum-
brous appendages of the so called etiquette
of fashionable life. It seems too much like
penetrating beneath, or unwinding the
sixty-four thicknesses of envelop to find an
Egyptian Mummy; and when you find it,
you only find a stiff, dried up, lifeless sub-
stance, at which every feeling would re-
volt to recognize as the representative of
once breathing, noble humanity. True dig-
nity is self-supported; and real greatness is
never straining for its own exhibition. It
certainly is desirable to be divested of that
kind of tall importance which requires con-
stant propping and splicing to sustain its
position. That is too expensive, it will nev-
er pay its own passage. I think it must
be one of those things that "perish with
the using."

[Column 2]	Ever delighted with the beauties of na-
ture, I like to see nature cultivated and im-
proved but not obliterated—however eleva-
ted and refined, let nature be nature still in
every department, both in the productions
of the earth, and in all the vast varieties
exhibited throughout animate and inani-
mate existence.
	I love simplicity. I like things to seem
what they are and be what they seem. I
love the artless exhibitions of unaffected
childhood; and regard simplicity in a child,
not as a frightful extuberance—a something
peculiar to, and only to be tolerated in the
infantile season, which, like the transient
verdure of spring, must disappear before
the summer solstice and give place to more
substantial productions; but as an inherent
attribute of real goodness, that should be
tenderly cherished—a plant that should be
cultivated for all eternity, and constitute a
prominent characteristic in every season of
life. If we are pleased with its charms in
childhood, it calls forth our admiration when
delineated in manhood; for when does
greatness appear so truly great, as when
clothed with the mantle of simplicity?
	We happen to be situated at the farthest,
lower extremity of that thing, called degen-
eracy and with all the boasted light and
knowledge of the age, the human family is
blind and ignorant with regard to genuine
worth, and true greatness. They call good
evil, and evil good; and I would ask, what
of all substances on earth, is more subject to
idiotic metamorphosing and artificial mum-
myfying, than that of the human kind? We
suffer our tongues to play the truant with
our thoughts—our bodies to be weakened
and disfigured by the arbitrary power of
de[-]enerating, corrupt Babylonish fashions
—our health destroyed and our lives short-
ened through a silly and guilty perversion
of dietic observances. The laws of nature
are set at defiance, while wisdom and sim-
plicity are laughed to scorn, and common
sense looked out of countenance. We all
have been and still are trammeled with
these mockeries of life. Yes, here in Zion
we are affectionately hugging to our bosoms
the prepossessions of Gentile tuition, cares-
sing the customs of the past, which have
been instrumental in lessening the tide of
human life to its lowest ebb, and at the
same time claiming, as we really are, to be
standing on the very threshhold of the dis-
pensation of the fulness of times, and ac-
tually living in the Era of the regeneration.
	As members of the church of Jesus
Christ, we each have high responsibilities
resting upon us; and surely quite as much
diligence and faithfulness are requisite in
Zion as in Babylon—if we needed a large
amount of moral courage to stand forth
amid the scoffs and sympathies of the
world, and of our unbelieving kindred, to
espouse the Gospel of Christ; we certainly
shall require no less to fulfill all its require-
ments in the midst of those who are called
saints; for remember, "all are not Israel
that are of Israel." In order to attain to a
fulness of promised blessings, we must be
found faithful, as well as to have been call-
ed and chosen.
	In speaking to those of the middle age,
the Savior said, "all the blood that has been
shed from the time of righteous Abel" &c..
"will I require at the hand of this genera-
tion." Why? simply because the responsi-
bility of saving, or, in other words, of do-
ing the work for all the dead, from the days
of Adam, down to that time, rested upon
those to whom the Gospel was proclaimed.
If such were their responsibilities, what
must be ours, who are called to lay the
foundation of a new order of things, after

[Column 3]
the pattern of heaven—to sound the requi-
em of Gentile policies, with all their incon-
gruities and tendencies to evil; and of ev-
ery principle of disorganization and de-
generacy; to establish, or at least to assist in
introducing such customs and principles as
shall place an eternal veto on the down-
ward course of human existence; and cause
the tides thereof, both physically and men-
tally, to flow upward, until mankind in
their generations upon the earth, have be-
come immortal.
	We do not yet see eye to eye in all things
—a difference in judgment with regard to
right and wrong in many instances, will ex-
ist among those who embrace the truth
through the love of it, until our under-
standings, being stripped of the fripperies
of the past, are equally enlightened by the
power of the wisdom of God. This calls
for long-suffering and forbearance, towards
each other. But do we not too often suf-
fer our judgments to be biased by reflec-
tions from the opaque order of things with
which our feelings have been associated?
We do not like variations from the beaten
track, and sooner than pass the trying or-
deal of change ourselves—sooner than stem
the tide of fashionable folly—sooner than
stoop to conquer the degenerating power of
custom; we tamely transmit to succeeding
generations the evils which we endure; and
leave for them to accomplish what we
should do ourselves.
	My dear sisters in Zion—to you I speak:
Shall it be thus? Let us all—let us as indi-
viduals realize that a portion of this great
responsibility however small that portion
may be, is resting on us. Let us ever dare
to do right, and in doing right, let us not
be afraid or ashamed to do. What is true
greatness? In human character, usefulnessconstitutes greatness. I mean in Zion. In
the estimation of holy intelligences, the
most useful character or person, is the
greatest. The Savior said, "He that is
greatest among you, let him be servant of 
all;" or in other words he is servant of all,
"The glory of God is his works." Useful-
ness is greatness. The tallest dignity—the
most perfect and beautiful elegance and the
mont lofty sublimity are combined and as-
sociated with the greatest simplicity.
	This is a day of restitution, and when
that heavenly simplicity which character-
ized the ancient worthies, those who asso-
ciated with angels, and conversed with the
Most High, is restored, the saints of the
last days will freely participate in the same
blessings.
	This is a laboring dispensation; and as we
are instrumental in benefiting others—in
transmitting to succeeding generations,
those principles and those practices which
tend to save and exalt; in the same propor-
tion shall we be crowned with glory and ex-
altation in the courts of Eternity.
						E. R. SNOW.


HYGENIC NOTES.

	A practicing physician says that many of the
deaths which occur among our children, are the
result of the use of stoves in sick rooms; that
pure air and free ventilation are of far more im-
portance than medical skill: and that open fire-
places are the very best ventilators.

	A lady ran a rusty nail in the bottom of her
foot, from which lock-jaw ensued. Raw beef
scraped or pounded and applied to the wound, re-
lieved the lock-jaw.

	An excellent remedy for scalds or burns is to
apply olive oil freely, and then cover with, and
bind on new cotton batting.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		87


[Column 1]
	FROM BEAVER TO ST. GEORGE.

				CONTINUED.

	No water is seen for a distance of eleven
miles, when emerging from the pine for-
est, cottonwoods and aspens with the well-
known willows give indications, and small
springs are seen on each side of the road,
whose waters uniting a short distance be-
low form a stream called the South Fork of
the Rio Virgin which supplies the inhabi-
tants of Long Valley, as this canon is call-
ed; having but little the appearance of a
valley, being in reality but a series of dales
and dells. Here is Orderville Dairy, the
stream, with simple machinery, converting
the cream into delicious butter; excellent
cheese is made here also. This is a very
pleasant, cool place in the heat of summer.
	Two miles farther down a shingle mill
carries on a thriving business; a steam saw-
mill in one of the side canons has been
busily engaged heretofore. The scenery is
delightfully romantic; cliffs of yellow sand-
stone formed by wind and rain into curious
shapes, resembling towers and lighthouses,
the tops covered with overhanging plants
and vines, and in some places the steep
cliff sides beautifully variegated with col-
ors of red, yellow, black and blue, or slate,
mingled with the bright green foliage,
forms a picture not soon to be forgotten.
Ferns, and other beautiful familiar plants
are found near tiny springs in unexpected
places. The view is rendered more en-
chanting by neat home-lik[-] dwellings scat-
tered along down a beautiful stretch of
meadow-land, reaching far up among the
hills and mountains, called Grassy canon;
small caves and holes in the rocks, are seen
in every direction, cosy homes for the
squirrels, bats, and mountain rats, the most
impudent, daring fellows, appearing queer
enough for rats, with deep shelf-like
ears, and bushy tails. The soft sand stone
in many places is almost perfectly honey-
comb, containing the nests of a species of
large Hornet, a most inveterate pest and a
most voracious meat eater; deserving some
praise however, as a fly exterminator, en-
tering the houses at early dawn, making
havoc among the house flies. Passing on
round a point a half mile, a lovely lakelet
sparkles in the sunbeams surrounded by
steep cliff like hills; on its banks a variety
of trees and shrubs form a delightful shade
for pleasure-seekers, but, with plenty of
water, cool and bright, there is none to
quench the thirst here, as its waters are to-
tally unfit to drink, being one of natures
most remarkable compounds, rapidly con-
verting everything it comes in conta[-]t with
into stone; the Indians say it was formerly
a small spring, but has gradually built it-
self up until nearly a hundred feet above
its former level; experiment proves it to be
bottomless. Two miles below this lies the
village of Glendale, a thriving little place
having a fine large grist mill, also a good
Sunday School superintended by Bishop
Seithhead who takes great interest in its
prosperity.
	Wild fruits are found in abundance in the
small canons, and thrifty young orchards
are beginning to bear; that will soon sup-
ply the inhabitants with a variety of good
fruit. Cattle are driven upon the hills
above to graze, where wide spreading grass-
lands meet the eye meadows on the hill-
tops; a spring three miles cast of the town,
is quite a curiosity, as its waters drop from
a shelving rock, extending several  feet un-
der a cliff, and flowing in a little rill from
this a short distance forms a pool of clear

[Column 2]
soft water, a convenient place for cattle on
the hills.
	Four miles from Glendale, in a cunning
nook among the hills and cliffs, is the new
and interesting town of Orderville; from
the sawmill above, to Orderville below,
about seven miles, the land on every side
is nearly all under cultivation, presenting a
most pleasing and agreeable appearance as
the road winds its way round the points,
and over the dug ways. Wheat, corn, rye,
and oats; with a variety of vegetables,
form the staple productions of Long Val-
ley.						MORE ANON.


SURPRISE PARTIES AT SANTAQUIN.

EDITORS EXPONENT:
	I do really think the women in Utah en-
joy themselves the best of any women on
the earth. The world outside, say we are a
poor down-trodden set of women, but we
know that it is not the case; we enjoy our-
selves in a way that our consciences ap-
prove, and we feel that God approbates, and
our social parties and amusements never
leave a sting behind, as those do that are
after the manner of the world.
	I wish to say a few words about the Sur-
prise Parties that we have had in this place
during the past week. The first one was
in honor of President Elizabeth J. Stick-
ney's sixtieth birthday, and took place on
the 19th of March, 1877. The sisters of
Santaquin were determined to manifest ap-
propriately the respect they felt for her.
They met at her house at 4 o'clock, p.m.
laden with picnic and presents; she was
totally unaware of any manifestation of the
kind until ushered into the room where all
were seated. She is engaged in teaching
school at Spring Lake, and we arranged
that her husband should go down and bring
her home, telling him to be very silent;
judge then of her surprise on meeting so
many of her friends unexpectedly. Sever-
al pieces were composed for the occasion,
and many handsome presents given to
her by the sisters. She responded to all
in a humble and beautiful manner, asking
God to bless us all; her husband also thank-
ed the sisters for the respect shown to him-
self and wife, and Mrs Mary Stickney also
returned her thanks for the respect shewn
to our President. Bishop Halladay was
present, who always encourages and adds
zest to all our social meetings; also Elder
P. N. Andersen, president of the Scandina-
vian brethren. Many other brethren and
sisters were there. A splendid supper was
given, and an abundance left to distribute
among the poor. The evening was most
agreeably spent, and very reluctant were
we to disperse. Evenings spent in these
kind of enjoyments prove much more profit-
able than if we wasted our hard-earned
means in visiting traveling shows or cir-
cuses, which usually leave a dissatisfied
feeling.
	The other surprise party was managed
for a birthday festival to some new comers,
who have not yet become initiated into the
ways of this country; so our sisters conclud-
ed to carry picnic to their house and give
them a SURPRISE, the evening was spent
very pleasantly, and in this way the sisters
seek to cheer and comfort each other and
to enjoy themselves without wounding the
most sensitive or refined feelings. Time
passes lively with us, good feelings exist
all around, and we feel truly thankful for
the spirit of the Gospel which is imparted
to us.


Praying for success to attend your very
valuable paper; I remain yours in the new
and everlasting Covenant.
				ELIZABETH CARTER,
							Secretary.


R.S. REPORT.

	LOGAN, 1st WARD MEETING HOUSE,
							Dec. 5, 1876.
	MINUTES of the meeting for the organi-
zation of the Young Ladies Retrechment
Society.
	Mrs. Elizabeth Benson was appointed to
act as the president of the meeting, and
Miss Kennie Baliff secretary pro tem. Af-
ter the opening excercises Mrs. Benson said
that she was very thankful that the sisters
had come to visit and to organize the
young ladies, and hoped that after their or-
ganization they would be united. By re-
quest Mrs. Elizabeth Howard said that the
time had come for the daughters of Zion to
turn their attention to many things per-
taining to the kingdom of God; counseled
the girls to keep the word of wisdom and to
read good books, gave many good instruc-
tions. Miss E. R. Snow said that before or-
ganizing she wanted to know if the young
ladies wished to be organized, asked them
to make it manifest, and all were desirous.
It was moved, seconded and carried that
Miss Ellen Ricks be appointed President,
Mrs. Sarah A. Card, and Miss Caroline Olsen,
Counselors,  Miss Lydia Crockett, Secre-
tary. Miss Snow said that as the president
was not present we would not elect the oth-
er four counselors, as it was her privilege to
elect them herself; said also, it would be 
proper to have a treasurer; gave excellent 
counsel and explained the many ways in
which we might make ourselves useful in
helping to build up the kingdom of God.
Exhorted us to be punctual in attending our
meetings and to be united. Said that the
sisters of the Relief Society would visit us
and do all they could to aid us. Mrs. Jane
S. Richards, spoke very encouragingly; ad-
vised the girls to be kind and obedient to
their mothers and to do all they could to
help them.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young said that the time
had been well spent and she did not wish to
detain us, but would like to counsel the
girls to set out mulberry cuttings and to 
raise silk worms.
				KENNIE BALLIF,
					Sec'y pro tem.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Rhubard Jelly Wipe, peel and cut quite small
some fresh rhubarb, put it into a preserving pan
with a very little warm water and the thin rind of
half a lemon to every pound of fruit. Boil until
reduced to a pulp. Strain the juice and weigh it
and allow one pound of pounded sugar to every
pound of juice. Boil up the juice, add the sugar,
boil, skim, and when it jellies on the skimmer
pour into pots, and tie down when cold. If
boiled too long it will become treacle.

	Stale Bread: Every person may make econom-
ical use of this article if care is taken in its be-
ing kept; it should be broken up small, dried slow-
ly in the oven, then grated or pounded in a mor-
tar to coarse powder and kept in wide-mouthed
bottles, well-corked. It will keep a long time in
a dry place, and is useful for many purposes, for
dressing for fowls and meat, for making the choic-
est puddings, or for mixing with flour for pan-
cakes.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


INTEMPERANCE.

 There is a saying which if some of our
boys would think of in the right time,
would be the source of much pleasure in-
stead of pain; it is "when sinners entice
thee, consent thou not." If they would
think of this when they are tempted to in-
dulge in intoxicating liquors, stamp it on
their memory, burn it there, so it could
never be erased, it would be the means of
avoiding a great deal of pain, sorrow and
death. Intemperance is a subject that is
agitating the public mind considerably at
present, and I think it high time some-
thing should be done to put a stop to the
sale of liquors; for if it were not very
plentiful a great many who drink now,
would not, were it not before them all the
time. When men so far forget themselves
as to indulge in the debasing habit of drink-
ing, it seems to me that they forget that
they are rational being, accountable to their
God for the deeds committed here; if they
would pause to think of the many, many
broken hearts and desolate homes, made so
by the demon drink, they would surely
think a great many times before they touch-
ed it. If they would consider how they are
debasing themselves, how low and degrad-
ed they are becoming, they would not taste
it. When a man so far forgets himself as
to let whiskey be his ruling passion, he is
lost to all the better feelings that should
prompt his heart to actions of love and
kindness. I would that I could speak with
a voice of thunder, that all might hear,
but would be repaid, could I save one per-
son from a drunkards grave. I have heard
young men when remonstrated with for
tampering with the baneful stuff, say, "Oh,
I can quit when I get ready;" but the get
ready so seldom ever comes, even were the
saying true, that it is not often stopped. It
goes on from bad to worse, till their one
aim, the one desire of their hearts is drink,
that thirst which is unquenchable is made,
and cannot be satisfied. It gets so bad after
a while that they must and will have it,
whether it comes honestly or not. And
when a young man gets so low, he is lost to
honor, to everything that elevates the hu-
man above the brute, and is indeed an ob-
ject of commiseration. Do the young men,
middle aged or any ever think, when they
take the first glass what it may lead to?
Do they imagine a drunkards home? Let
us imagine one for a moment: The wife is
waiting in tearful anxiety for her husband,
the man who vowed to love and protect her,
(and what a protection indeed;) she hears
his unsteady steps on the walk and shud-
ders for very fear of—she does not know
what, she thinks, ah! what might have
been; she knows full well that instead of
the words of love and kindness she should
hear from him, it will be oaths and curses.
The children are huddled away out of
sight in horror of the man whom they
should love and honor; who should love and
cherish them, and when he leaves thisworld should leave an honorable name for
them to inherit, but instead of that, what
a stigmatized one there is for them to bear;
one which a whole life of good actions will
hardly obliterate.
	And still men will drink, will so degrade
themselves that when they sink into the
early grave, which nearely every drunkard
finds, it is not regretted. Boys, stop and
think before you touch it. Think, if you
want your friends, your associates to love,
honor and revere you; if you want to leave
an honorable name enrolled upon the pages
of life, do not touch, taste or handle the
DEMON DRINK.				JUNE


CORRESPONDENCE

			KAYSVLLE, May 21, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

 I would like to address a few lines to the
girls through the EXPONENT, if I may be
permitted to do so.  I am myself a girl, and
therefore take an interest in the improve-
ment of the young sisters; I begin to real-
ize that there is a great work for us to do 
in helping carry on the work that our par-
ents have commenced.
 The Retrenchment Associations are, I 
believe, for us to gain much knowledge,
and prepare us for the accomplishment of
a good life-work.  Then girls let us attend
our meetings regularly, and try to improve
ourselves in all things that will tend to
make us useful women in the Kingdom of
God; let us give heed to the counsel and ad-
vice of our presidents; they are placed over
us as teachers, and we should always up-
hold them with our prayers and works.
These associations are calculated in a meas-
ure, to unite the young sisters.  I can see
quite an improvement in this respect among
the girls in this place, since the organiza-
tion of our society, one year ago; and I
trust that this improvement may increase
in every society in Zion.
 If we pray earnestly to God for strength,
He will surely hear our prayers and we will
be able to perform all that the Gospel re-
quires of us.
						FAITH.


A CARD
 A rumor is being current that we are using a New
York brand on the articles we manufacture, to have
them self in this market.  We wish in state that it is
not so.  We use no other than our own brand, and rely
on the purity and quality of our articles to commend
them to the public.
R. MATTHEWS & Co.
Salt Lake City, U. T.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on 
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS
Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly.  Prices low and no interest charged.  Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
WOOLEN GOODS,
SUCH AS 
TWEEDS JEANS,
DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
LADIES JACKETS,
STOCKINGS, YARNS,
SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
LATEST STYLES OF 
FANCY WORSTED TIES,
 Men's Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hat, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes; Brooms, Butter, Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vine-
gar, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spoo[-] Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe, Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue,
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of Jamaica Ginger
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore
Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands.  Sole
Leather and other Trunks, Gents' Fine
Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
Table Salt, Band Boxes and 
Dixie Cotton.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City,
F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

THE FINE ARTS.
 The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
 We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our 
prices are put at living rates.
 We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
 A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to       C. R. SAVAGE.
                             Salt Lake City, Utah.
-----------------------------------------------
	Mrs. C. E. DYE,
 Invites her partrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
 Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in 
her Emporium.  Do not forget.
17, East Temple street.
TEMPLE OF FASHION.
Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
FOR THE LADIES
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF 
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN 
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JUNE 15, 1877.        No. 2


THE SILK WORM'S WILL
	BY MISS H. F. GOULD

On a plain rush hurdle a silk work lay,
When a proud young princess came that way,
The haughty child of a human king,
Threw a sidelong glance at the humble thing,
That took with a silent gratitude
From the mulberry leaf-her simple food-
And shrank with half scorn and half disgust,
Away from her sister, child of dust;
Declaring she never yet could see
Why a reptile form like that should be,
And that she was not made with nerves so form,
As to calmly stand by a “crawling worm!"
With mute forbearance the silk-worm took
The taunting words and the spurning look;
A stranger alike to self and pride,
She had no disquiet from aught beside,
But lived of a meekness and peace possessed,
Which these debar from the human breast.
She only wished, for the harsh abuse,
To find some way to become of  use
To the haughty daughter of lordly man,
And thus did she lay a noble plan,
To teach her wisdom and make it plain,
That the humble worm was not made in vain;
A plan so generous so deep and high
That to carry it out she must even die.
"No more," said she, "will I drink or eat!
I'll spin and weave me a winding sheet,
to wrap me up from the sun's clear light,
And to hide my form from that wounded sight.
In secret then, till my end draws nigh
I'll toil for her; and when I die,
I'll leave behind as a farewell boon,
To the proud young princess my full cocoon;
To be reeled and woven in shining lace,
And hung in a vail o’er her scornful face;
She will softly smile as she draws her breath,
Through the very threads that have caused my
	death:
When she finds, at length, she has nerve so firm,
As to wear the shroud of a "crawling worm."
May she bear in mind that she walks with pride,
In the winding sheet where the silk worm died.


A FEW REFLECTIONS.

			    (CONTINUED.)

 Beside blessing Abraham and the lineage
of this patriarchal tree, God also blessed
Sarai and said she should be called Sarah
and should bear a son, and become a mother
of nations, and kings of nations should be
of her posterity, Genesis xv chapt., 15, 16
verses.
	In the xxxii chapt. of Genesis, Jacob is
spoken of journeying with his wives, and 
the angels of God met him on his way, and
Jacob called them God's host.  And this
same Jacob was one of the main branches
of this polygamic tree.  In the same chap-
ter beginning at the 24th verse there is an
account given of Jacob wrestling with a
man, and prevailing; and Jacob knowing
this man was one of great power, would
not let him go until he should bless him;
and he obtained the blessing he desired,
and his name was called Israel, "for as a
prince hast thou power with God and with
man and hast prevailed."  And Jacob asked
his name, but he evaded answering the
question by asking another, "and Jacob
called the name of the place Peniel; for I
have seen God face to face and my life is
preserved," Genesis xxxii chapt., 30 verse.
We find again in the xxxv chapt., begin-
ning at the 9th verse, God appeared again
unto him and made the same promises to
him which He made unto his grandfather
Abraham; that he should be fruitful and
a nation and a company of nations should
come of his loins.  And the land which
God had given to his forefathers, Abraham
and Isaac should be given to him and his
seed after him.  And the Bible expressly
says he talked with God.  These testimo-
nies of the respect in which God held these
ancient patriarchs with their plural wives
abound throughout sacred history.
 Moses whom God called to lead the child-
ren of Israel out of bondage was also a man
who had plural wives.  We find in the xii
chapter of Numbers that the Lord instead
of condemming Moses for the practice,
made his power manifest unto Aaron and
Miriam who had spoken against it, and his
anger was kindled against them and Miriam
suffered severely and became leprous and
had to be shut out from the camp seven days
notwithstanding Moses cried unto the Lord
for her.  All who read this chapter may un-
derstand how dangerous it is to speak
against this practice which the Lord ap-
proves.  This is called in the Scriptures,
the sedition of Miriam and Aaron. This
instance scarcely leaves room for a doubt,
for no believer in the word of God as laid
down in the Bible would admit for a mo-
ment that God defends evil practices.
Here we have cited to you Abraham, Ja-
cob and Moses, which three witnesses an-
swer the end of the law to condemn or
justify. But this is a very interesting sub-
ject and there is so much depending upon
it that we will proceed still further with
testimony.
 In Kings xv chapter and 5th verse we 
read of David, a man after God's own heart
through whose loins a chosen seed should be
raised up, even Christ the Redeemer of Is-
rael, because David did that which was
right in the eyes of the Lord, and turned
not aside from anything that He command-
ed him all the days of his life, save only
in the matter of Uriah.  We find, also in
ii Samuel, xii chapter, 8th verse, the Lord
when reproving him for that sin said "And
I gave thee thy master's house and thy
master's wives into thy bosom, and gave
thee the house of Israel and the house of
Judah; and it that had been too little, I
would moreover have given unto thee such
and such things," showing that the Lord
considered many wives a great blessing
among other things which He had bestowed
upon him.  After the Lord had chastened
him and taken away by death the child be-
gotten in sin, He remembered the cove-
nant He had made with his father before
him saying that "inasmuch as ye do the
works of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, I the
Lord will greatly bless and multiply you."
 And thus must we confess that His say-
ings are true, when He says that His ways
are not as man's ways for instead of brand-
ing the woman with shame and casting her
off to become a victim of the vile and the
abandoned, and be dragged down to degra-
dation and death and although David had
taken her to wife after he had other wives,
yet the Lord blessed her together with
David her husband by giving them Solo-
mon whom the Lord loved; and whom He
chose above all the sons of David to sit
upon His Father's throne to reign over all
Israel, and build a Temple to the Lord.
Solomon also had many wives and we do
not find that he was condemned for any-
thing, only for marrying women of other
nations which the Lord had commanded
them they should not do.  I Kings xi chap-
ter 11th and 12th verses; he did not keep
the statutes and judgments as did David
his father, plainly showing that he was not
condemned for plurality of wives.


NOTES AND NEWS.
			     ----
 THE  NEW England Woman Suffrage As-
sociation held their ninth annual meeting,
commencing Monday evening May 28, at
Tremont Temple, Boston, Mass.  Mrs. Ju
lia Ward Howe the president of the Asso-
ciation being absent, Mr. Henry B. Black-
well called the meeting to order and laid the
business of the Convention before the as-
semblage.  Mr. I. T. Fields in the open-
ing appropriately, speech alluded to Sidney
Smith as being one of the earliest and
strongest champions of women’s rights.
Mrs. Lucy Stone in her remarks also allud-
ed to Sidney Smith, to whose disinterested
labors women all over the world were in-
debted.  She announced that Mrs. Mary A.
Livermore and Wendell Phillips would be
among the speakers at the convention on
Tuesday evening.  The business meeting
began in the Meionaon Tuesday morning,
with an audience of about five hundred.
The first business was the report of the
Chairman of the Executive Committee.
Mrs. Lucy Stowe read the report, which
stated in substance that the treasury had
been replenished through means raised by
a Festival and contributions so as to accom-
plish the work of the year without a debt.
 Many excellent speeches were made, and
reports from different societies brought for-
ward, appeals from various places to the As-
sociation in convention assembled, etc.  We
have not space to publish, or scarcely touch
on these speeches from distinguished people
of the world engaged in this public work,
but will give one paragraph from the speech
of Mrs. Mary A. Livermore concerning
Utah, which will show how falsely this
people are placed before the public, and
will call forth an article or two upon this
subject in our next issue.
 "In Utah women vote.  But both men
and women are ticketed, and receive from
the authorities a ballot corresponding with
the number they bear.  It is fair to say
that the women do not want to change them.
If men want women who always do exactly
what the men tell them, you will find them
in Utah.  These women command my sym-
pathy and respect.  They obey their reli-
gious convictions of duty.  The graveyards
of Utah are filled with women who have
died broken-hearted in obedience to their 
consciences; women who have given up
their husbands to other women because
they thought it to be their duty.”


Rebecca Andersen, of Seneca Falls N.
Y., is the oldest old maid in the world.
She is one hundred and twelve.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
	R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meeting in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, May 26
was very full, and one of very great inter-
est.  The president of the meeting and those
who addressed the assembly, dwelt mostly
upon the necessity of home-industry.
Counselor E. R. Snow laid before the sis-
ters the necessity of providing labor here
at home for the thousands who emigrate to
Zion every year; that they may have means
to obtain a livelihood; that this portion of
the work was as necessary as spiritual work,
or the work of building Temples, for if the
people did not become self-sustaining they
would not have the privilege of remaining
here to minister in those temples and receive
the ordinances and blessings pertaining
thereto; that while the gathering was still
being preached, it was essential that those
who gather here should be furnished with
suitable employment, that this had been
preached to the saints from the commence-
ment of settling these valleys.  It was nec-
essary now to do, and do with and for a
purpose, to take measures that would be
carried out by the people, everything was
being so arranged so as to make these
things possible, and the sisters could lend
efficient aid in these matters; she hoped
and desired to see them step forward and
show that they were really for Zion and
her interests.  Counselor S. M. Kimball
spoke on the same subject and referred to
the tannery the brethren were now trying
to establish. said she hoped every sister
who could raise five dollars would take a
share in it; for her own part she thought
this people did wrong in sending their
hides out of the territory to be worked up
when there was every facility for making
leather here in Utah, and it would be one
source of labor and remuneration to men
who had families to provide for; made ref-
erence to instances where men with fami-
lies were unemployed and needed work to
do to procure the necessaries of life.  Oth-
ers of the sisters spoke energetically on
this subject.  Many good things were said cal-
culated to give lasting impressions upon the
matter. The subject of straw manufacture,
was brought before themeeting and the time
was mostly spent in speaking upon those
things that have a bearing upon the every-
day affairs of life, and the duties and ob-
ligations of all who desire to see Zion free
and independent, and not bargained away
for a few paltry, flimsy, showy adornments
"that perish with the using," and are a part
and parcel of Satan's programme to bring
sorrow upon the people of God, and turn
them from the pathway of obedience.

EDITORS EXPONENT:
	Thinking you might like to hear what
we are doing in Hyde Park, we determin-
ed to report ourselves.  Our society is pro-
gressing, not rapidly, but as fast as possible;
we have nearly seventy bushels of wheat
securely stored and intend adding to it.
We have given our mite to assist with the
temple and factory.  We intend trying to
raise our own silk, and make our own wear-
ing apparel as much as possible.  As an as-
sociation we enjoy the spirit of the Lord
in our midst, which prompts us to try to
overcome our weaknesses and help in all
good works.  We have a Retrenchment As-
sociation here, presided over by Mrs. Sar-
ah Daines, it is in quite a prosperous con-
dition.  The EXPONENT is always joyfully
received and much information is gained by
perusing its columns.  We have had a great

[Column 2]
deal of sickness and many deaths; there
are few families but what have had to part
with one or more of their little ones.  We
acknowledge the hand of God in all things
and desire to serve Him and ever have His
spirit to guide and strengthen us.  If Miss
E. R. Snow, or Mrs. Z. D. Young, or any
of the sisters who take delight in encour-
aging each other, should be called by duty
or pleasure to Cache Co., we should be
most happy to have them pay us a visit.
That the women of our most holy faith
may have power to do the good they de-
sire, to exalt themselves above the follies
of mankind, is the prayer of your sisters,
	MARY L. WOOLF,
	President.
	MARY E. GRIFFETH,
	Secretary.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

FARMINGTON, DAVIS COUNTY,
			May 6th, 1877.

EDITORS EXPONENT:

	I have often felt impressed with a great
desire to write my feelings and the thoughts
that pass through my mind while medita-
ting on the work of God, and as I am a 
great thinker I have been led of late to con-
template the glorious and most wonderful
workings of the Almighty, and it causes
my heart to rejoice that I live in this day
and hear the servants of God talk in plain-
ness of the things which pertain to our
eternal salvation and exaltation in the
kingdom of God; they speak with power,
and it thrills my soul with joy while listen-
ing to their teachings, and I feel willing to
put away all my selfishness and think, Oh!
that I could live by every word that pro-
ceedeth from the mouth of God through
His servants.
 The cares and duties of a large family
prevent me from filling responsible posi-
tions as some of my sisters are so faithfully
doing, but I can fill a place which calls my
attention daily and hourly and which I can-
not neglect without feeling remorse of con-
science. It is our binding duty as mothers
in Israel to watch over our little ones to
keep them as much as we can out of dan-
ger. Those precious gifts which God has
given me, words cannot express the anx-
iety I feel regarding their welfare, especial-
ly those who are old enough to be taught
those principles whicn will help them to
fill honorable places in society, and become 
useful wives and good mothers. Our child-
ren are our hope, and on us depend their
future happiness in life. Keep them from
the company of those who would lead them
astray; it requires patience and a prayerful
heart, and it is no easy task to keep our
children in the paths of virute; we must
pray for strength from on high to enable
us to fill that high and holy calling, and
great will be our joy if we are permitted to
have those jewels in a heavenly sphere,
throughout the endless ages of eternity;
then will it not reward us for all our watch-
care and trouble, our toil and sorrow, if we
can accomplish this, by the help of God?
although we may work with fear and trem-
bling, if we save our sons and daughters
we will have accomplished something great.
Home and children are a blessing to wo-
man, and it should be her highest ambition
to set a good example before them especial-
ly as it falls more on the mother to train
them when the father is absent from the
family circle. The mother should call her
children together and bow in humble pray-
er for the light of the holy spirit to lead
them in the path of duty, this will give
that mother strength that she may endure
faithful while performing the most arduous
tasks which devolve upon her; she who is
sometimes so tired, and weary and would
be glad of an opportunity to retire to some
place of solitude for rest from the noise
and bustle which seems almost distracting
and unendurable at times.
						S. L. C.

 How little woman's labor is appreciated
by the husbands and fathers, they shrink
from some of their most important duties,
and leave too great a responsibility upon the
mother, and apparently can enjoy ease and
comfort elsewhere, while their sons are
breaking the Sabbath day, or doing that
which grieves a mother to the hearts core.
Oh fathers in Israel, when will you see to
this most essential of duties? the Lord re-
quires this at your hands as well as at the
mother's and great will be your condemna-
tion in a day to come if you neglect it. I
beg pardon if I have used too much free-
dom of sentiment, but "out of the abund-
ance of the heart the mouth speaketh."
We must be faithful to our calling, and
when we have finished our work and our
bodies are worn out and laid low in the
dust, our names will be held in sweet re-
membrance by those who are dear to us,
although they seem not to appreciate us
while we are with them.
 I do not feel capable of teaching those
who are much more advanced in knowledge
than myself; but you, with me my sisters,
can teach our daughters to keep good com-
pany, the company of good men and wo-
men, those superior to themselves in good-
ness. The education of household duties is
just as essential for our girls, as knowledge
of books; we are in our houses more than
half of our existence and it is the house-
hold surroundings which affect most large-
ly the happiness or misery of life. If our
daughters learn the art of making home a
desirable place for their husbands and child-
ren, if they acquire the way of governing
quietly, if they have to tact to observe or-
der, and practice cleanliness, for cleanliness
is next to godliness, then they know how
to make a little heaven at home; how to re-
turn the affection of their children. To
have home smiling with comfort and cheer-
fulness, is a happy solace to a weary moth-
er. 
	God has blessed me exceedingly; may
His blessing rest upon all, is the prayer of
your sister in the Gospel.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Your Splinter from "The Watchman"
 is only partially correct. The "Regent" or
"Pitt Diamond" is acknowledged to be the
best proportioned in the world, is exceed-
ingly brilliant, weight 136 carats, required
two years to cut it, and is valued at $1,000,-
000. The most valuable, it is claimed is
the "Grand Mogul" which weighs 7801/2 car-
ats in the rough, but is reduced to 279 and
nine sixteenths by the process of cutting;
nevertheless it is valued at the modest sum
of $2,400,000.


Nothing on earth is so beautiful as the
household in which love ever smiles, and
religion walks a counselor and a friend.
No storms can make it tremble, for it has
a heavenly anchor. The home circle sur-
rounded by such influences, has the [-]nte-
past of the joys of a heavenly home.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO SALT LAKE CITY.

O City of the wilderness,
     Made beauteous by untiring toll;
Industry have thee lovliness,
     And fertilized they barren soil.
When sunshine gilds the western skies,
     Enwreathing thee in dazzling green,
Greeting the travelers' weary eyes
    Thou seem'st the desert's queen.

Thou'st made thy throne the eternal hills,
    Whose strength is freedom's guarantee,
Whose treasured snows, the mountain rills,
    And canon torrents bear to thee.
When "Sol" in radiance on us beams,
    And freshness given to all things here,
What robes of green 'mid sparkling streams
    Thy glorious summer's wear.

Made great by precious trophies won, 
    Of mind and skill, from many lands
Where want and sin their courses run
    And error gilds her strengthened bands.
Won in the power of truth divine--
    Here is the truth of God adored,
Not dragged in chains in grief to pine,
    Not gathered by the sword.

Shall slavery ever drag thee down?
    Not while they mountains kiss the sky,
While round thee craggy strong holds frown
    True liberty shall never die,
Nor avarice plant unholy bowers
    To desecrate the sacred soil.
Want's rude despoiler raze they towers
    To mock the sweat of honest toil,

Already worth's engraved thy name,
    Undimmed with blood, on history's page;
Thy genius and they new-born fame
    Rebuke the spirit of the age-
Wrong rampant, virtue in the shade, 
    Wealth lending might power to ill,
Religion mean and servile made, 
    To speak wealth's sovereign will. 

Dear sought out refuge of the meek, 
    Be thou the home of liberty!
With truth and wisdom may we week
    To light thy future destiny.
Science, industry, faith and lgiht
    Have come to worship from afar,
To hail thy birth and heaven-born right,
    And be thy guiding star.
				R. SMITH.
15th Ward, Salt Lake City


PATRIARCHAL MARRIAGE.
	The subject of patriarchal or plural mar-
raige is generally interesting to every one
especially to the outside world. Almost
the first question asked our missionaries by
the Gentiles, is "how many wives have
you got?" when they become aware they are
Latter-day Saints and from Utah.  An im-
mense interest is created when plural mar-
raige is mentioned. There are very few
that understand the principle of patriarch-
al marriage in its true light. The beauty
and consistency of it is only seen by those
that possess the spirit of the Lord; which
spirit enables us to see and understand 
things pertaining to life everlasting, and it
will comfort and cheer us in all the trials
which we are called to pass through. This
is a principle through which Satan tries us
with all his might; he shows us (that is if
we allow him to) that mole hills are about
the size of mountains, and little things,
which at other times we would pass by un-
noticed; he makes to appear very dreadful 
to bear. Blessed are the women who will
sustain this principle in the face of all oppo-
sition: Such indeed are mothers in Israel,
and true daughters of the living God.
When men and women take upon them-
selves these holy covenants, they should be
so sure that they are in the path of duty,
that all  busybodies there are cannot in-
fluence them or cause them one dark hour.
Sisters when a person comes to you and
speaks against this holy principle and tries
to discourage you in fulfilling the law given,
do not yield to the influence, but endeavor


to show to them the principle in its purity,
and how perfect should be the practice of
it. A part of woman's mission is to com-
fort and cheer those around her, especially
those of her own household; the wife
should comprehend the greater glory she
is attaining to through every wife added
to the family. The Lord fits the back for
the burdens and He blesses those who obey
Him in this principle in ways that are won-
derful; and besides if we are faithful and
keep the commandments of the Lord we
lay on this earth the foundation of eternal 
progression.
 Our religion is a practical religion, we
carry it out in our every day lives, and by
doing, our duty and living up to our privi-
liges and blessings and keeping our eye on
the mark, we help to roll on the kingdom
of God, and fulfill the mission we were sent
here to do. We should so live that when
our children grow up they may feel that
Plural Marriage is far superior to the one
wife system, and that they may not have
the prejudices to overcome that we have
had through tradition, and that our child-
ren may be as reconciled to it as the child-
ren of Jacob were. 
 Then sisters let us sustain this principle
with our whole heart and soul, for there are
noble spirits anxiously waiting to take tab-
ernacles here, and if the women in the
kingdom of God don’t fulfill the first great
law given to them, then others must be
raised up who will.
 Asking the Lord to bless all the daugh-
ters of Zion, and that all may attain to Ce-
lestial Glory who are earnestly striving for
it, is my sincere prayer.
					LIZZIE LEAKER.


WOMAN'S VOICE

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Our little settlement is trying to progress,
We are doing the best we can, although we
have had a great deal of sickness the past
winter; yet we feel to acknowledge the
hand of God in it for we are told "whomso-
ever the Lord loveth He chasteneth, and
that He is displeased with none save it be
those that will not acknowledge His hand
in all things." In the midst of all this
sickness we have seen the power of God
made manifest many times, and I know
that if we are faithful and prayerful before
God we can do much good; and whatever
we set our minds to do the Lord will bless,
whether it is to lay up grain, or to aid in
building temples; these are things that
every one is interested in or should be; and
let us as sisters try to live our religion at
home, if we can do this it will be much to
our credit; and let us be ever ready to re-
spond to the calls of those that are placed
over us: may the Lord help us to do so is the
wish of you sister in the Gospel,
						LYDIA RICH.
	Morgan City, May 20, 1877.

	Sisters I have reflected much of late up-
on the position we occupy as helpmeets to
the brethren in the cause of Zion, and have
often thought I would like to cast my mite
among those who write for our Woman's
paper; their words of comfort and encour-
agement are of great worth to me, and I
trust to all those who are interested in the
Gospel. The condition of the women
here in Utah, is something much talked
of now, and pondered upon by those
who are seriously inclined. They are de-
sirous to know something of these degrad-


ed women who are considered a disgrace to
the great American Republic. We are
willing that they should know concerning
our history, our practical lives. We are
free to do right, we are free to do wrong.
We know what is the will of our heavenly
Father concerning us, and how much better
for us to do it, than to turn from it to the
vanities and abominations of the world.
The will of the Lord to us is to enter into
the covenants of patriarchal marriage and
raise up pure seed unto Him, who will not
be corrupted with the evils that are prac-
ticed in this nineteenth century, by the so-
called ladies and gentlemen of the age.
But the cry is “put these Mormons to death,
they are not fit to live among such as we,”
—Yes you that are destroying your off-
spring and that have become so degenerat-
ed as not to be willing to fulfill the first
commandment "to multiply and replenish
the earth." You that are reveling in lux-
ury and fashion, and draining to the dregs
the cup of iniquity, some under the cloak
of religion, others more openly, should
know that the light of the Everlasting Gos-
pel has come into the world, and all have a
chance for repentance, and all will be re-
warded according to their works.
	Praying that the Lord will bless the sis-
ters in the great work of redemption in
which we are engaged for the living and
for the dead, and desiring to be a co-worker
in this great and glorious cause, I will now
close.
						S. C. D.


THE CAVALCADE. 

	Merrily sounded the clattering hoofs as
the gay riders swept past on their spirited
steeds, their cheeks as roseate as the bright,
June morning. Hastily joining them, I
was soon drinking in the inspiration of the
fragrant air, which seemed heavily laden
with rich spices and perfumes. After
a short canter over the hills, one of the
cool, shady canons east of our city, was
reached. It is needless to describe the
scenery, all such delightful places, and glor-
ious mornings have a similarity. Birds,
bloom and fragrance were everywhere
around, and fresh, mountain breezes fan-
ning the cheeks, caused the pulses to quick-
en and the heart to glow with newly invig-
orated life and hope. The day was spent
among nature's wildest haunts, culling the
different varieties of regal and modest flow-
ers, and weaving them into garlands of the
richest dyes. Sol sunk to rest, as the gay
cavalcade wended their way towards the
city again, their forms wreathed and dec-
orated in the beautiful bands of bloom from
the wildwoods and valleys. The world
seemed very bright to them, and the
music of their youthful voices floated forth
on the evening air as they neared the
“dearest spot on earth," HOME
 Let those who are over-burdened with
care, forget for a time the busy, bustling
world, and seek out some of nature's beau-
tiful bowers, and there surrounded by the
mighty works of the Great Omnipotent, in-
hale the pure breath from the clear, cool
heavens; it will be as balm to the weary
soul, and impart strength and fortitude, to
again take up the cross of life. 
						 ZOE.


GENUINE neighborly love knows no dis-
tinction of persons. It is like the sun,
which does not ask on what it shall shine
or what it shall warm, but shines and warms
by the very laws of its own being.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
LULA GREENE RICHARDS,
EMMELINE B. WELLS.}Editors.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regualr advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.
	SALT LAKE CITY, JUNE 15, 1877.


[Column 1]

HOME MANUFACTURE, AND
STORING GRAIN.

	There are many practical subjects of vital
interest now to the women of this church and
kingdom which ought to be taken into consid-
eration, and acted upon, as well as talked
about or written upon. This people are called
upon to be self-sustaining; to produce all that
is possible from the soil and from the elements,
and to manufacture all articles practicable at
home, and invent improvements in all the de-
partments of industry, which will be labor sav-
ing or time saving, and encourage all attempts
made in that direction, that will help to make
us as a people in reality what we have been so
long entreated to be, independent of Babylon;
that when she shall fall, as she inevitably
must, the Latter-day Saints may not be left
destitute of necessary comforts and blessings,
because they were not willing to hearken un-
to the voice of the Lord. But we cannot be-
lieve this will be the case. Surely the faith
the saints profess is real, and will bear the test
of endurance, though great exertions must be
made, and much self-denial practiced. After
having succeeded in establishing civilization
in a desolate country, enduring all the trials
and hardships consequent upon such an enter-
prise, this people of all people upon the earth
should be the last to go back to those who
thrust them out from their midst to perish of
hunger or cold, or in any other manner, es-
teeming them too vile to occupy cultivated
lands and homes. This people owe no grati-
tude to the world outside, that they should la-
bor and toil and accumulate means to support
Babylon. What obligations are the saints un-
der to their enemies? None save such as all
creatures owe to each other to do good for evil.
If people could only believe it, only compre-
hend it in its fullest and complete sense, they
are not even doing the good to the outside
world which they would be doing were they
to combine together and determine to be self-
sustaining. If this people will make the one con-
centrated effort they are now called upon to 
make, and not think they will do it at some
future time, but now, they will not become
slaves to Babylon and her wares, but will be
well prepared to administer to her in the day
of adversity, when "the hour of her travail"
comes. What is there now in this territory if
the great crisis which the saints well know is
impending were to come suddenly? Nothing,
except it may be in one or two parts of the
territory where home-industries have been
practically tried for a short time, but for the
majority, poverty and wretchedness, and mis-
ery. Shall we all be able to realize these great
temporal truths?
	There is every inducement offered now to

[Column 2]

raise silk-worms. It is positively demon-
strated that the soil, the climate and all
the facilities are indigenous here in Utah
to the production of silk. There has
been some tangible materials made here
from the elements in the silk line of
goods. Some of the ladies have silk dresses
manufactured from the elements of Utah; and
there are for sale at the Woman's Commission
House, scarfs, pocket-handkerchiefs, sewing
silk, floss and laces of superior beauty and
quality, all home work and home material.
Miss E. R. Snow has a bonnet made of the silk-
dress material which looks very elegant, trim-
med with the home-made black silk lace and
artificial flowers. There will soon be a variety
of homemade ribbons.
	Another subject of the utmost interest to the
women of this territory, is the saving and stor-
ing of grain. We hope none of the good sisters
have forgotten the counsel given to them by
President Young last fall on this subject. We
do not wish to relinquish OUR efforts in any
sense in this direction in the least. We feel
that it is something the sisters have been called
to do by revelation, and let each one of us
be wise and use all the energy we possess to 
save every kernel of wheat raised this season,
and if it is really necessary that men should
sell or dispose of their grain for other things;
let the Relief Societies in the different settle-
ments be prepared to buy as much as possible,
and store it away carefully using every precau-
tion to preserve it from damp and insects of 
all kinds. We hope the sisters will also be
wise in preparing suitable places for storage,
now before the harvest comes on; take into
consideration all due preparation, and do not
be afraid you will not get the grain to store for
you will. This is not a trifling matter nor a
thing of little consequence, but a work that
demands some of the best thoughts and exec-
utive ability that woman has ever been called
upon to put into action. Many of the sisters
and children have told us they intend glean-
ing: no doubt the wheat fields will be filled
with gleaners this season. If the faith of the
sisters is good, there will be no danger of their
not having large quantities of grain to store,
and remember it is food for you and your
children in the future when war, desola-
tion and famine shall come, and the saints
know it will come. Remember this is salva-
tion both in a temporal and spiritual sense,
and it is worthy the sacrifice of fine clothes
and all superfluities. May the Lord aid and
bless the sisters throughout the territory in
this noble enterprise.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	WE RETURN sincere thanks to Mrs. Emma
Wagstaff for two very elegant bouquets of choice
and beautiful flowers, received recently; these
are kind remembrnaces, most particularly wel-
come to those sitting all day at the desk, with-
out the opportunity of leisure to go and inhale
their refreshing fragrance in the gardens, or
wildwoods.
	DIED AT Huntsville, Weber Co., June 6th,
1877, of heart disease, Mary Jane Dilworth,
wife of Bishop F. A. Hammond and President
of the Relief Society in that place.  She went
with her husband as a missionary to the Sand-
wich Islands in 1850, where she taught the
native children during six years and three
months and was much beloved by them, so
much that they gave her the title of mother.
Her  name will ever be remembered there with
honor and gratitude.  Her death has cast a 
gloom over the whole community where she
resided.


CENTREVILLE, DAVIS Co., June 6th.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Our Society has lost one of our aged mem-
bers, Margaret Bleasdell, who departed this life
May 26, in her eightieth year; she left a hus-
band, aged eighty-two years, and several chil-
dren (some of whom are in the States). She
had over fifty grandchildren and a number of
great-grandchildren. She always took great
interest in every movement that was for the
advancement of the kingdom of God; it was
her delight to converse on the principles of the
gospel. She was a subscriber of the EXPONENT
for many years. She died as she had lived a
true Latter-day Saint.—COM.

	THIS CITY in its growth and improvement is
fast developing into a similarity with older cit-
ies and towns in its variety of public entertain-
ments. Professional lecturers, both men and
women of the different varieties of style and
sentiments, on all popular and unpopular sub-
jects, contrive to give Salt Lake the benefit of
their wonderful knowledge "for value re-
ceived." Traveling Dramatic and Minstrel
Troupes make it a part of their programme to
perform once or more in Salt Lake City, and
almost every year this city is visited once or
twice by a circus and caravan. Thus Salt Lake
is quite up to the modern standard in this sort
of amusement. This season there has already
been quite a number of these performances of
rather a superior quality. One of the most
famous American orators, Theodore Tilton,
gave his celebrated lecture "The Problem of
Life," to an attentive and appreciative audi-
ence in the Theatre recently. He declared
many great but simple truths, and his lecture
contained much that, if practised, would very
materially benefit the condition of mankind.
We failed to see any solution of the problem of
life in his remarks, except that it is always
wisest and best to do right in preference to
wrong, and "honesty is the best policy."

	IT SEEMS that there are sometimes people
who visit Utah and tell the truth, at least a
part of it. It is really refreshing to have once
in a while a few words spoken in our favor by
those who are not of us. L. B. Fyfield, of
Kearney, Neb., who recently visited Salt Lake
with the party of editors from Nebraska, a
man interested and acquainted with education-
al matters, says in the "Daily Press" Kearney,
Nebraska:
	"The editor of this column has had the pleas-
ure of visiting the Deserrt University and oth-
er schools in Salt Lake City. His full report
upon this and other subjects, will be embraced
in a lecture. But it should be said here that
Salt Lake City is not wanting in the substan-
tials of English education. It should also be
said, that there seems to be misapprehension
of the educational opinions of Brigham Young.
He is not opposed to education. He is opposed
to a system that is confined to books. He
would have every child taught how to get a
living by "work." He would educate the
hand as well as the head. The teaching and
the studying in Salt Lake City are far ahead of
the buildings occupied by the schools. In the
states it is often the other way. Brigham
Young may be no saint. Nevertheless, there
are the schools in Salt Lake City, Mormon
schools and excellent."
	D. S. A. MEETING.—The Deseret Silk Asso-
ciation met in the Fireman's Hall, Friday
June 1, pursuant to adjournment, Mrs. Horne
presiding.
	Mrs. Horne said it was a benefit to us to


meet together from time to time to be instruct-
ed how to proceed in this branch of business to
make it a success, and what was most needed
now was machinery to work up our silk into
articles of wearing apparel. She was in favor
of working our silk at home and not sending
it east, but to give employment to those in
our own community, and by this means keep
labor and capital at home. She was in favor
of each ward having a cocoonery to give em-
ployment to those who might not be able to
work at more laborious work, and by this mean
it would enable some to be earning a livlihood
where otherwise they would be idle. The
beauty of our adornment ought to be the
workmanship of our own hands.
	Mr. Paul A. Schettler endorsed the remarks
of the previous speaker. If the people would
only take hold of this business and raise the
cocoons, there was nothing to hinder us from
making it a success. Our silk was as good as
any in the world. He had received a letter
from a gentleman in the east to say that he
would procure the necessary machinery for our
present use for six hundred and fifty dollars.
Said that one pound of silk would make from
fourteen to fifteen yards of dress silk. He was
in favor of getting the best machinery. By
present appearances there would be four times
the amount of silk raised this year than any
year before. He advised those who could not
raise cocooneries to fit up a room and be gain-
ing some experience.
	The meeting was then addressed by Mr. H.
F. Slagowski, of St. George, Mrs. Robinson, of
Farmington, and others, after which a vote of
thanks was tendered Mrs. Robinson for having
made the first piece of silk dress goods in
Utah.
	Meeting was adjourned until the first Friday
in July, at 3 p. m., at this place.
	R. SIMPSON, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

ITEMS FROM THE DIARY OF 
JOSEPH SMITH.

TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY.

[CONTINUED]

	Nauvoo, April 28th,1842.—He then commen-
ced to read the xiii chapter of Cor. "Though
I speak with the tongues of men and angels, and
have not charity, I am become as sounding
brass,or a tinkling symbal; and said, don't be
limited in your views in regard to your neigh-
bor's virtues, but beware of self-righteousness,
and be limited in the estimate of your own vir-
tues, and not consider yourselves more righteous
than others; you must enlarge your souls to
wards each other if you would do like Jesus,
and carry your fellow-creatures to Abram's
bosom. He said he had manifested long-suf-
fering, forbearance and patience toward the
church, and also to his enemies, and we must
bear with each other's failings, as an indulgent
parent bears with the foibles of his children.
	President Smith then read the 2nd verse.
"Though I have the gift of prophecy, and un-
derstand all mysteries and all knowledge; and
though I have all faith, so that I could remove
mountains, and have not charity, I am noth-
ing." He then said, though a man should be-
come mighty, do great things, overturn moun-
tains, perform mighty works, and should then
turn from his high position and do evil, to eat
and drink with the drunken, all his former
deeds will not save him, but he would go to
destruction! As you increase in innocence and
virtue, as you increase in goodness, let your
hearts expand, let them be enlarged towards

[Column 2]

others; you must be long suffering, and bear
with the faults and errors of mankind.
	How precious are the souls of men! The fe-
male part of the community are apt to be con-
tracted in their views. You must not be con-
tracted, but you must be liberal in your feelings.
Let this Society teach women how to behave
towards their husbands, to treat them with
mildness and affection. When a man is borne
down with trouble, when he is perplexed with
care and difficulty, if he can meet a smile in-
stead of an argument or a murmur—if he can
meet with mildness, it will calm down his
soul and soothe his feelings; when the mind is
going to despair, it needs a solace of affection
and kindness.
	You will receive instruction through the or-
er of the Priesthood which God has established,
through the medium of those appointed to
lead, guide, and direct the affairs of the church
in this last dispensation; and I now turn the
key in your behalf in the name of the Lord,
and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge
and intelligence shall flow down from this
time henceforth; this is the beginning of bet-
ter days to the poor and needy, who shall be
made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on
your heads.
	When you go home, never give a cross or
unkind word to your husbands, but let kind-
ness, charity and love crown your works hence-
forward; don't envy the finery and fleeting
show of sinners, for they are in a miserable
situation, but as far as you can, have mercy
on them, for in a short time God will destroy
them, if they will not repent and turn unto
Him.
	Let your labors be mostly confined to those
around you, in the circle of your own acquaint-
ance, as far as knowledge is concerned it may
extend to all the world; but your administra-
tions should be confined to the circle of your
immediate acquaintance, and more especially
to the members of the Relief Society. Those
ordained to preside over and lead you, are au-
thorized to appoint the different officers, as the
circumstances shall require.
	If any have a matter to reveal, let it be in
your own tongue, do not indulge too much in
the exercise of the gift of tongues, or the devil
will take advantage of the innocent and un-
wary. You may speak in tongnes for your
own comfort, but I lay it down for a rule, that
if anything is taught by the gift of tongues, it
is not to be received for doctrine.
	President Smith then gave instruction re-
specting the propriety of females administer-
ing to the sick by the prayer of faith, the lay-
ing on of hands or the anointing with oil;
said it was according to revelation that the
sick shoold be nursed with herbs and with
mild food, and not by the hand of an enemy.
Who are better qualified to administer than
our faithful and zealous sisters, whose hearts
are full of faith, tenderness, sympathy and
compassion? No one. Said he was never
placed in similar circumstances before, and
never had given the same instruction; and
closed his instructions by expressing his heart-
felt satisfaction in improving this opportunity.
	The spirit of the Lord was poured out in a
very powerful manner, never to be forgotten
by those present on this interesting occasion.


[Column 1]
	EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS FROM
		HAWAIIAN ISLANDS.

			BY JANE E. MOLEN.

	Our home is situated on a sloping hill.
Just above us on the south west is the re-
mains of a once active crater, which is now
the grave-yard of Laie. South is a beauti-
ful plain with sugar-cane under cultivation.
South east, east, and north east of us, roar-

[Column 2]
ing continually, is the great Pacific Ocean.
North and north west are mountains and
hills covered with green shrubbery, always
green, summer and winter. It is the most
magnificent scenery I ever beheld. The
most beautiful shapes and forms of trees
growing out of rocks; water gushing out of
the top of a mountain so high and perpen-
dicular that you can scarcely believe your
own sight. We are on a knoll with a pick-
et fence around the houses of Elders Wool-
ley, Lambert, Laie store and Plantation
House. The natives build their houses of
grass in the shape of a nice hay stack.

	I would be pleased to write a description
of the Sandwich Islands, had I seen more of
them, and felt myself competent; but I
think it would take a person with excellent
language to portray the beauties of this is-
land scenery; how I would like to be able
to describe it.
	We had the pleasure of a short, but very
pleasant visit from the Queen on the 28th
of February. She with her suite comprising
eighteen or twenty, mounted on fine horses
came dashing up to the door, which was
the first to give us warning of their in-
tended visit, there being some mistake in
the sending of the notice. Her business
was to organize Relief Societies. The peo-
ple were called together and she made a
speech, showing the necessity of such or-
ganizations, that the wants of the sick and
destitute might be administered to, and
thereby preserve the lives of many of the
nation. After the close of the meeting she
took supper with us, and continued her
tour around the Island. Queen Kapiolani
is a fine looking woman, pleasant and agree-
able in her manner, a little above medium
size, rather fleshy, very qnick and active,
being able to mount her steed without as-
sistance.
	The Elders here are well and in good
spirits. The mission is progressing slowly.
The term used by our Savior would well ap-
ply to this people "forgive seventy times
seven." Our annual conference here is
over. We have had an excellent time, all
our missionaries being here and all feeling
well. We look forward to our conference
with much pleasure as we can all meet and
enjoy the society of each other for a short
time. Our elders enjoy the spirit of their
mission. They have given good counsel to
the Saints here, and all seemed to enjoy it,
and want to try to do better in the future,
and live nearer to the Lord. In looking
over the congregation, I compared them
with our saints at home. I could see their
faces light up and fairly glow with the good
spirit as they listened to the counsels of
our Elders. The elders have been appoint-
ed their fields of labor as follows: Elders
R. G. Lambert, and H. S. Woolley to labor
here on the plantation in connection with
President Pack; Elders H. P. Richards and
J. S. Woodbnry on Hawaii; Elders S. M.
Molen and Jacob Gates on Maui, Molokai,
and Sanai; Elder James Keeler, Kanai and
Oahu.
	Her Majesty the Queen Kapiolani, at-
tended our Island conference, held a[-] Hono-
lulu on the first day of April-and appeared
to be much pleased with the preaching.
Elders Richards and Pack had an interview
with His Majesty the King, on the second,
and presented him with some Church Books
which Elder F. A. Mitchell sent him. He
received them very kindly and appeared
pleased with the books. He inquired after
his subjects in Utah, appeared anxious
about their welfare.

	LAIE, OAHU, April 17, 1877.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SUFFRAGE CONVENTION IN
NEW YORK.

 The friends of Woman Suffrage connect-
ed with the New York Society, met last
Thursday, May 24, in Masonic Hall. The
convention was called to order by Mrs. Isa-
bella Beecher Hooker. Mrs. Olympia
Browne made a prayer, and Mrs. Matilda
Joslyn Gage read letters of regret from
Miss Susan B. Anthony, Mrs. Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, and others. At two o'clock
a second session of the Association was held.
The attendance was larger than in the
morning. Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker
presented the report of the Committee on
Nominations, which was adopted and Mrs.
Clemence S. Lozier, M.D, was elected
President. A Vice-President was also chos-
en for each State and Territory, among the
persons selected being Lucretia Mott, Eliz-
abeth Cady Stanton, the Smith sisters of
Glastonbury, Conn., and Elizabeth Boynton
Harbert, of Illinois. Ernestine L. Rose
was elected Foreign Corresponding Secre-
tary, Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake, Recording
Secretary, and Ellen Clarke Sargent, Treas-
urer. Mrs. Spencer then spoke on the work
of the Congressional Committee, declaring
that its power had never been so thorough-
ly felt as during the past year. She gave a 
minute and interesting account of her ex-
perience at the Cincinnatti Convention.
Rev. Olpmpia Brown then delivered an ad-
dress advocating an appeal to Congress for
the enfranchising of Woman, and adducing
numerous authorities in support of her de-
claration that Congress has the power to
grant the right and that Suffrage is insepar-
able from citizenship.
	Resolutions were adopted demanding the
ballot for women, with the exercise of citi-
zenship independent of sex, protesting
against the memorial from Utah to Congress
asking the disfranchisement of women in
that Territory, and asking Congress to pass
the Sixteenth Amendment, acknowledging
the right of women to vote. To the resolu-
tions were added the names of all those
Senators and Representatives who had vo-
ted for Woman Suffrage, and who are
thanked by the Association.
 Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage gave an ac-
count of the work of the Executive Com-
mittee. Having formally thanked Hon.
George F. Hoar for rising in his place in 
the Cincinnatti Convention to ask a hearing
for Mrs. Sara J. Spencer the convention
took a recess until evening.
 Mrs. Dr. Clemence S. Lozier presided at
the evening session, which was largely at-
tended.  She read an address in which she
claimed that Woman's Right to Suffrage
was natural and inalienable.
 Mrs. Lillie Devereux Blake alluded to a
speech of a leading Democrat in Congress
last winter, in which he declared that no 
people had a right to resort to war so long
as they were not deprived of the ballot.
The women of this county are entitled to
rebel, as they are deprived of the ballot-box 
and politically are slaves.  The old law that
excluded idiots, criminals and women does
not seem to prevail, for she had noticed by
several paragraphs in the newspapers, that
paupers had recently voted in that State.
The practice of pardoning criminals the
day before election was a notorious one, but
she had found that the only prison from
which no one was pardoned last year was
the woman's prison at Sing Sing.  Instan-
ces were cited to show the sort of represent-
tation which was obtained in men by wo-
men. The reduction of teachers' salaries in
this City was explained. They have, she
said, no votes and no political influence. If
they were possessed of the right of Suffrage
it is not to be supposed for one instant that
they would be treated in this way any more
than the policemen. She asked for an open
field and a fair fight in this contest.
 Mrs. Matilda Joslyn Gage said she had let-
ters from old workers in the cause, living
in various States. The decision of the Su-
preme Court of the United States in the
case of Virginia L. Minor, remanding wo-
men back to the States for their citizenship,
was a false ruling on the face of it. The
foreign-born voter who takes up his right
to vote in a State from the United States
when he takes up his naturalization papers.
The black men were made voters by the
United States,  and Jefferson Davis and Rob-
ert Toombs are deprived of the right to
vote by the United States.  The women of
the country will exercise their right of pe-
tition, which is secure to all citizens, and
will drop their petitions for the removal of
their disabilities like hail-stones into th e
next Congess. Mrs. Gage amused the au-
dience and provoked applause by reading
an ingenious form of petition which she
proposed to use, similar to that submitted
for relieving former rebels from their disa-
bilities.
 Mrs. Blake said that in presenting her
petition she had added the explanation that
she had never borne arms against the Uni-
ted States. She thought that explanation
ought to have given her better standing
than the rebels had, and it was her opinion
that women ought to have been enfranchis-
ed, before the rebels were.
 Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker spoke of
the progress made in the Woman Suffrage
movement in Connecticut, and alluded in-
cidentally to the fact election day had been
changed from spring to fall because New
York was too handy, and her citizens were
inclined to come over and meddle with 
Connecticut politics. Connecticut had re-
cently proposed that women who were pos-
sessed of $300 may vote at municipal elec-
tions, and a vote of forty-five members of
the Legislature was cast for it.  The conser-
vative Gov. Hubbard had spoken warmly
of the proposition to relieve women of their
disabilities, and his utterances had been
commended by newspapers, which said that
if the Woman’s Rights advocates had talk-
ed in this sensible way, something would
long ago have been accomplished. “Why,”
said the speaker, “we had published all and
more than the Governor said, in 50,000
tracts on the civil disabilities of women in
Connecticut,”' From what she had heard
to-day of Gov. Robinson;  New York State
would have to look to her laurels.  It seem-
ed to her that Governor Robinson had said
some very silly things, and that he is neith-
er the peer of Gov. Hubbard in intellect or
moral perception. “You will have to choose
another, or he must do better.  Silly is the
least objectionable term that can be applied
to your Governor."
	Mr. Lee, formerly of Wyoming, said that
the enfranchisement of women in that Ter-
ritory had proved a distinguished success.
The presence of women in official life had
changed the community from a lawless
mob to a law-abiding community, and he
had not discovered that any woman had
been unsexed by reason of her acquisition
of the privilege of voting.
 Dr. Lozier announced that the Conven-
tion was adjourned to meet in Washington
in January next.--"Woman Journal.".


IT is ignorance, and not knowledge, that
rejects instruction; it is weakness, and not
strength, that refuses co-operation.


A PROTEST.

	Sister Mabel:—I hope you will excuse
me if I appear blunt, and perhaps severe,
in my manner of expressing opinions about
your "Wishes and Suggestions," which ap-
peared in the EXPONENT of May 15th. It
is my nature to be plain spoken, and I
write as I speak.
	I consider the article referred to, the most
objectionable of anything that has ever
been published in our Woman's paper. It
seems contrary to the spirit of our religion
so uncalled for, uncharitable and unjust.
	Speaking of the honey bee as being "dis-
honest" for merely following the bent of its
nature, in sucking sweets from your or-
chard and garden flowers. And as "impo-
lite," for coming through an open window
to take honey from your table. In the first
place, it is nonsense to think that the bees
harm the fruit. A curse and a blight has
come upon our fruit because in former years
we have let the surplus waste, instead of
dividing it liberally with our poorer breth-
ren and sisters. The Lord will not suffer
His people to waste the blessings which
He gives them, without being punished
for so doing; and thus their blessings are
cursed to them. In the second place, there
is no need for the bees to trouble you by
coming through the open windows. A
piece of musquito bar may easily be
stretched across the aperture, and all such
trouble will be obviated. It appears to me
absurd to think of banishing our honey
bees from the city. Why, all through the
States they are kept in and about people's
homes.
	You speak of children who admire and
ask for flowers, as "little beggers," which I
think is very ungenerous. I should take
much pleasure myself, in having the little
things toddle in to ask me for a rose; and I
should never think of refusing them so
small a thing, while to turn one away with
a harsh reply would seem cruel indeed. I
believe we should encourage in our child-
ren a love for flowers and music, and all
such things, which bear refining influences,
and tend to elevate their young minds and
draw them heavenward. Too many peo-
ple who are well-to-do, are too much afraid
of taking a little trouble or going to the
least expense to gratify other children than
their own. But this is no part of our re-
ligion and should not be the feelings of a
Latter-day Saint.
	Many people are poor, and not yet able to
have fine flower gardens. But this is no
reason why their children should not be
taught to appreciate beautiful flowers. I
would teach them that roses are expensive,
but not to be ashamed to ask for them. We
go down on our knees before the Lord and
ask Him for gifts both greater and smaller,
and why not ask favors of each other, and
grant to each other such blessings as we
have in our power to bestow?
	I should consider being called from my
work to give a child a rose, the merest
trifle. As to your being called on such an
errand twenty times a day, I think that in
this expression you have gravely exaggera-
ted.
	CRITIC.


Don't, above all things, walk smoking
by the side of women. No matter if she
does give you permission when you ask it. 
We don't wish you to do it you may be sure.
It is a disrespectful thing. It partakes of
the nature of an insult. No matter how
grand or learned or distingushed you may
be don't do it.
					—Gail Hamilton.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


UNISON.

	Jesus has said "If ye are not one ye are
not mine." Although we may consider our-
selves true Latter-day Saints, if we are not
united in doing that which has been taught
us by those holding the Priesthood we can-
not claim to be one. Are we one in faith?
Yes. Are we one in baptism? Yes, we can
all see that alike. Do we all have faith in
the healing ordinance? A great many, if
not all of us have: we all should have.
Then in what are we not one? In worldly
goods. Have we anything that the Lord
did not give unto us? From what other
source did we derive the blessings that we
daily enjoy? Why do we have health and
life? Why are we not cripples as many of
our fellow beings are? Is it because we
have the ability to take better care of our-
selves than others have? I don't think so;
I think the Lord in His infinite goodness
and mercy gives us life health and ability
to serve Him, and to do good to others and
assist in building up and establishing His
kingdom upon the earth, for this last privi-
lege we should be especially thankful.
Then if He has done all this for us will He
not require obedience at our hands, to the
principles that are taught us from time to
time by His servants which are taught us
for our own benefit, not theirs? Are we
united on all these subjects? If we were
we would have more power to do good;
wher there is Union there is strength.
The Lord can take from us at any moment
life, health and prosperity. He can sweep
all before Him in one breath as it were,
and still He allows us to live on in obedi-
ence or disobedience, whichever path we
choose.
	Will He always be merciful? He has
said that the wicked shall be swept from
the earth; if they do not repent and serve
Him. He has said that the kingdom shall
not be given to another people. But a few
will stand firm and true to the covenants
they have made with God and each other,
and will assist in the redemption of Zion,
but we will only do it by being willing to
make every sacrifice that is necessary to
the accomplishment of that end. We may
have to do many things that are not pleas-
ant, we must not say we cannot, we must
say that we will serve God, come what
may; come life or death; and earn the re-
ward in store for the faithful. We may
have to lay aside the follies and fashions of
the world that have come into our midst.
Shall we say, I CANNOT; if we do, the Lord
will take it from us; far better do it willing-
ly and cheerfully and gain the reward for
so doing; for the Lord has said "My people
shall be willing in the day of my power."
	That we may be humble and faithful, is
the prayer of your sister in the Gospel.
	C. R.


STORING GRAIN.

	RICHFIELD, SEVIER Co., April 5th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I will endeavor to give some information
concerning the progress of our Society; we
assure you that the sisters of Richfield are
not altogether dead, although so long un-
heard from. We read with surprise the in-
structions, when first given through the
EXPONENT, for the Relief Societies to Store
up Grain, and our hearts were filled with a
a true desire to obey the call from the ven-
erable leader of our church. It is a proof of
his confidence in the sisters, and we ought
to rise up in our might, yet with all humil-


ity, to engage in this noble enterprise, re-
membering that thereby we shall be able to
make restitution for past wrongs, for had
we, as a general thing, been obedient and
wise, more could have been accomplished
than has been, towards building up Zion.

	HOLDEN, WILLIARD CO., May 21, '77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We esteem it a privilege to contribute to
your valuable paper, which in perusing we
find very interesting and encouraging, more
especially the situations of the different
Relief Societies throughout the Territory,
with whom we wish ourselves numbered.
We are endeavoring to carry out the coun-
sel of our beloved President Brigham
Young, in laying up grain, planting out
mulberry-trees and encouraging home man-
ufacture as much as lays in our power, us-
ing every advantage possible. Our facili-
ties for raising grain are not so great as
some other localities, yet we intend with
the help of our Heavenly Father, to perse-
vere, and gain the reward allotted to the
faithful.
	We hold our meetings monthly, and ex-
press our feelings and the gratitude of our
hearts for the many blessings we as a peo-
ple receive from time to time.
	We also had our annual meeting March
16 which day we celebrated, commencing
with the usual exercises (singing and pray-
er) after which the annual statements were
read showing the attendance, donations
and labor performed to be very creditable;
and now have on hand quilts, lumber,
cash and grain, amounting to five hundred
dollars.
	Occasionally we are visited by President
Thomas Callister and a few of our leading
Elders who are deeply interested in the
prosperity of the cause of Zion and for
which we are laboring; they impart many
very valuable and impressive instructions to
us.
	Yours very Truly,
		EMMA J. BENNETT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

					MANTI, MAY 24, 1877.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Feeling a deep interest in the silk cul-
ture, and having been accustomed to the
business from my earliest childhood, I 
thought if I could say a word to encourage
those of my sisters who are starting out in
this branch of Home-Industry, I should be
most happy.
	In the first place I will say that I am sat-
isfied by experience, that Utah is quite as
favorable for silk raising as Old New Eng-
land, my native land, and in my young
days there was a great deal made there.
Beside this, it has the advantage of being
a healthy occupation for young or old. I
would say to the young married sisters,
have mulberry trees set out; if you will do
this, in a few years you will have some-
thing for your family to depend upon, which
will supply you with many of the comforts
of life, without applying to your husbands
for means, and will help to make you inde-
pendent in little things and perhaps able to
render assistance in many ways. I have 
heard it remarked, and very truly that 
President Young lives in an atmosphere
above us; I know if we had carried out


his counsel in regard to setting out mul-
berry trees, as well as in everything else,
we should be in a very different condition
to-day. The women of Utah are different
from many of those in the world. We
wish to be helpmeets to our husbands in
very deed. We are willing to spend our
time and the talents, ability and strength
which God has given us in doing good.
	I think we should cultivate that noble
principle of self-reliance that our Father
has implanted in our bosoms, and also in-
struct our children that if they have any-
thing they must earn it, and in time to
come they will bless us for it.
	We feel that we are a blessed people in
Manti, in having the privilege of assisting
to build a Temple in our midst. The sis-
ters here are determined to do what they
can in that direction. We have a fine large
meeting house in process of erection, un-
der the direction of our esteemed Bishop,
J. B. Maiben, who is ever alive to the
wants of the people and willing to encour-
age them in every good move and work.
	Wishing success to the Exponent, I will
close for the present.
	Your sister in the Gospel,
		R. WAREHAM.


RUNAWAY MARRIAGES.

	In a great majority of cases, a lady's elope-
ment is unwise, giddy, ungrateful, immod-
est, and evinces a lascivious appetite and
reckless disposition. Why should she de-
sert and distress those who have loved, nur-
tured and cherished her through all her past
years to throw herself into the arms of a
comparative stranger, who has done noth-
ing for her, and whose protestations of af-
fection have yet to undergo the first trial?
It is every way unworthy of pure and gen-
tle maidenhood to do so.
	We can imagine but one excuse for
her elopement, namely—the efforts of par-
ents or guardians to coerce her into marry-
ing some one she does not love. To avoid
such a fate, she is justified in running 
away, for no parent has or ever had a right
to constrain a daughter to marry against
her will. But where the parents are will-
ing to wait, the daughter should also con-
sent to wait, until her choice is assented to,
or she attains her legal majority. Then if
she chooses to marry in opposition to her
parent's wishes, let her quit her home open-
ly, frankly, in broad daylight and in such a
manner as shall kindly but utterly preclude
any pretense that her act is clandestine or
ill-considered. No one should be persuad-
ed or coerced to marry where she does not
love, but to wait a year or two for the as-
sent of those who have all their life done
what they could for her welfare, no daugh-
ter should esteem a hardship.
	There is some truth to be told about the
"common run" of masculine prowlers by
night, about garden walls and under bed-
room windows, in quest of opportunities to
pour seducing flatteries into the ears of
simple misses; but we have not time to tell
it now. As a general rule they are licen-
tious, good for nothing adventurers, who
would much rather marry a living than
work for it, and who speculate on the chan-
ces of "bringing the old folks round" after
a year or two. A true man would not ad-
vise, much less urge, the woman he loved, to
take a step which must inevitably lessen
the respect felt for her, and violate the truth
reposed in her by those who had loved and
cherished her all her days.—Home Circle.


16		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FLOWERS.

	NOT only is kindness due to every one,
but a special kindness is due to every one.
Kindness is not kindness unless it be spe-
cial. It is in its fitness, seasonablesness, and
individual application that its charm con-
sists.

	HE that wrestles with us strengthens our
nerves and sharpens our skill. Our antag-
onist is our helper. This amiable conflict
with difficulty forces upon us an intimate
acquaintance with our object, and compels
us to consider it in all its relations. It will
not suffer us to be superficial.

	YOUNG men are as apt to think themselves
wise enough as drunken men are to think
themselves sober enough. They look upon
spirit to be a much better thing than experi-
ence, which they call coldness. They are
but half mistaken; for, though spirit with-
out experience is dangerous, experience
without spirit is languid and ineffective.—
Chesterfield.

	AGE AND YOUTH.—Age that is tender
and maternal, age that remembers its own
youth and does not demand bread from the
growing corn, nor wine from the green
grapes, and youth that can feel for infirmi-
ties which it does not know and that can
believe in wisdom which it has not reached
—these two together make a whole, perfect
for what it is, and turn a chance companion-
ship into a mutual blessing, and out of a
temporary association create a life-long
affection.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Bare Neck and Arms.—An eminent physician
declared: "I believe that during the twenty-six
years I have followed my profession in this city,
twenty thousand children have been carried to the
cemeteries, a sacrifice to the absurd custom of ex-
posing their arms naked. And yet it is said the
low-neck fashion is coming in again. Do not fol-
low it.
	Mental Development.—It is coming to be well
known that mental development is the result of
properly directed physical training; that the brain
grows in size and power by the varied exercise of
the senses and the will in mechanical employments
quite as rapidly as by purely intellectual efforts in
study or otherwise. It is equally known to phy-
siologists that most men are one-sided in heads as
in their bodies. The two halves of the brain are
rarely developed symmetrically, as may be readily
seen in the "conforms," or head measures accum-
ulated by hatmakers supplying individual custom-
ers. To some extent the difference in the contour
of the two sides of the head may be due to un-
equal pressure on the nurse's arm, or to the habit
of lying chiefly on the one side while sleeping,
thus causing a permanent displacement of the
walls of the skull, but the main reason appears to
be our one-sided habit of education. Dr. Brown
Sequard observes that the study of the facts in re-
lation to the brain has led him to believe that
"each half of the brain—paradoxical as it may
seem—is a whole brain."—Scientific American.
	Failures and Health.—The effect of so much
financial trouble is, for the time, very distressing
on the health of those involved. Debts and ina-
bility to meet them depress vital energy and im-
pair physical integrity; hence we see so many tak-
ing their own lives. The brain reels, the nervous
system totters and falls, and the man is a wreck
who once was the noblest work of God. There
is little hope of the generation now on the stage
that they will ever all learn the laws of true living


so as to be able to stand up against misfortune, or,
better still, avoid it; but there is a better time
coming, when people will study the laws of life as
revealed in our bodies and minds, and then things
will be different. They will then be so instructed
that they will refuse to enter upon a course of life
calculated to end in ruin to body and soul.
	Those in business will do well to heed the signs
of the times, and to guard the body from harm by
right living, and to keep their business within the
limits of their ability, so in times of pressure to
be able to endure. There can be no great and
abiding success in business enterprises without
sound health, good bodies, firm nerves, a stomach
capable of doing its daily duty, and a nervous sys-
tem that can throw off care at night, and take
sweet, serene repose. Look well to these things,
and there will be little to fear.—Herald of Health.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To preserve winter clothing from moths, the
very best method is to wrap each article in brown
paper. It has been proven one of the best pre-
ventives from moths in the world. Stiff seam-
less sacks are excellent to keep out moths, and
put in the sack some camphor and tobacco.
	Dough-nuts: One pint of flour, one table-spoon-
ful of sugar, one teaspoonful of cream of tartar,
half teaspoonful of soda, and two eggs. Mix
well with milk; roll out the paste, and cut it out in
any shape. Fry in boiling lard until a nice brown.


[Column 1]
			A CARD.

	A rumor is being current that we are using a New
York brand on the articles we manufacture, to have
them sell in this market. We wish to state that it is
not so. We use no other than our own brand, and rely
on the purity and quality of our articles to commend
them to the public.
						R. MATTHEWS & Co.,
	Salt Lake City, U.T.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
					SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
				LADIES' JACKETS,
					STOCKINGS, YARNS,
						SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
							LATEST STYLES OF
								FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter, Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vine-
gar, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue.
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of JAMAICA GINGER
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore
	Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands, Sole
		Leather and other Trunks, G[--]ts' Fine
			Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
				Table Salt, Band Boxes and
						Dixie Cotton.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are [--]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1877.	No. 3.


TREASURES.

I saw the miser counting greedily his gold.
His hands were shriveled—eye and heart were cold;
I saw him turn the poor man from his door,
With frown, nor give one penny from his store

I've seen in childhood's bright and fairy land,
Bright treasures gleam along the golden strand:
And heard the merry shout of children in their play,
Each seeking gems along the pleasant way.

I saw a maiden silent, thoughtful stand,
And gaze upon a jewel on her fair white hand,
And heard her murmur gently, soft and low—
"The pledge of all the joys my soul can know."

I saw a mother stand beside a cradle bed,
And gently smooth the ringlets on the pillow spread.
And heard her pray—"O bless my darling here"—
Earth holds no other treasure half so dear.

I looked again—she clasped a broken toy,
The plaything once of her departed boy;
As such more prized by far than golden store—
Those little hands now beckon'd from the other shore.

I've read the tale a tiny flower did hold;
The hopes and fears within a letter's fold;
Know all that clasp of hand in hand can tell,
And in the heart how words of love and kindness dwell.

No living soul but hath some treasure hid
From mortal eye beneath its casket lid;
Some deeply hid 'neath cold and sordid gain
And some 'neath waves of cruel bitter pain.

And yet how slight a thing will touch the spring,
And forth to light the hidden treasures bring—
A strain of music known in days long gone,
Or simple words of some remembered song.

O human heart what mystery is thine!
And who can judge thee but the "Power Divine?"
In that great day His eye will read aright,
The story hidden deep from mortal sight.

	HOPE.


[Column 1]

	THE WATCHMAN'S CRY.

	"BEHOLD THE BRIDEGROOM COMETH."

	"The kingdom of heaven is likened unto
ten virgins, who all had lamps and went out
to meet the bridegroom, and while the
bridegroom tarried they all slumbered and
slept, and at midnight a cry was heard,
"Behold the bridegroom cometh go ye out to
meet him," they all arose and trimmed their
lamps but the foolish had no oil, and they
said unto the wise give us of your oil, but
the wise refused, 'go and buy of them that
sell,' while they were gone the bridegroom
came and the doors were shut; afterwards
the foolish virgins came and knocked say-
ing master open to us, but the Savior said
"I know you not."
	There is another beautiful parable of the
Savior's recorded by St. Luke, connected
with the parable of the ten virgins, that
evidently has reference to the present day.
The Savior asks the question "When you
make a feast do you invite the poor, the
lame, the halt and the blind, or do you in-
vite the rich that you may receive recom-
pense?" the poor have not means to recom-
pense you, but if you invite the poor you
shall be rewarded in the resurrection of the
just. Now connect the testimony re-
corded by the Apostle Mathew xviii chapt.
"He will send his messengers with the
sound of a trump to gather His elect from
the four quarters of the earth." then He
shall come in power and great glory. Now
His messengers have been gathering His

[Column 2]elect for the last forty-six years and all na-
tions have been invited and all made ex-
cuses, and the Savior said unto His ser-
vants to tell those who have been invited, that
all is ready, to come quickly to the wedding
supper, but they prayed to be excused. The
servants returned and reported to the
master who was angry and said go straight
away into the highways and hedges and
compel them to come in that my house
may be filled, for not one of them that have
wished to be excused shall taste of my sup-
per.
	Now we would ask what is meant by oil in
their lamps? It is evident that the oil Is the
Holy Ghost that bears witness of the Father
and the Son to all baptized believers, who
are honest and are legally baptized by
one having authority to lay on hands for
the reception of the Holy Ghost. Now
some among us discourage the gift of
tongues because of the adversary taking
advantage of the unwise use of the gift.
In the Book of Mormon, 120th page, Ne-
phi speaking to the saints said, "Do you not
remember that I said unto you that after ye
had received the Holy Ghost ye should
speak with the tongue of angels." Angels
speak by the power of the Holy Ghost,
wherefore they speak the workds of Christ, for
when a man speaketh by the power of the
Holy Ghost the Holy Ghost carrieth it in-
to the hearts of the children of men, but
many harden their hearts against the Holy
Spirit that it hath no place in them." Book
of Mormon 514th page. "Behold I say un-
to you God changeth not and is a God of
miracles, and the reason why He ceaseth to
do miracles among the children of men is
because that they dwindle in unbelief and
depart from the right way and know now
God in whom they should trust."
	Now I feel bound by all that is sacred and
true to sustain and encourage these gifts of
the Gospel; if the adversary and all his
agents were to heal the sick, and speak in
tongues and do miracles, I know there is
the counterfeit and the true coin, and the
Holy Ghost is the dictator. I read of Jos-
eph Smith's first interview with Brigham
Young, when the hour arrived for family
prayer,  the Prophet Joseph called on Bro.
Young to pray and he prayed in tongues,
and those present asked the prophet what
he thought of the gift. Brother Young exer-
cised during the prayer; the prophect replied
"Brother Brigham spoke in the pure Adamic
language, and it was given by the Holy
Ghost and is of God, and he will yet lead
this people." And if I recollect right Levi
Hancock, who is still living, was present on
that occasion.
	In referring to the Book of Mormon, page
562, we find the following in respect to the
continuation of the gifts in the true church:
"And now I speak unto all the ends of the
earth, that if the day cometh that the
power and gifts of God shall be done away
among you, it shall be because of unbelief;
and woe unto those who shall do these
things away and die in their sins; they can-
not be saved in the Kingdom of God for if
there be one among you that doeth good he
shall work by the power and gifts of God."
	W. EAST.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE KING of Spain has decorated the
Marchioness of Francos with the cross of
the "Noble ladies of Marie Louise."
	A GRAND wedding is to take place soon
at Hyderabad, India. The bridegroom is
one of the most promising men at present
in that vicinity; a few months ago, during
the absence of his uncle in Europe and
Delhi, he officiated as Prime Minister. He
is Mawab, Mookram-ool-dowlah. The bride
is his cousin, the daughter of Sir Salar
Jung.
	VICTORIA OF England, Augusta of Ger-
many, and Marie of Russia are presently to
receive, from the American Women's Cen-
tennial Executive Committe, elaborately
bound copies of "The New Century for
Women," "Reports of the Philanthropic
and Charitable Institutions of the World,"
"Worthy women of our First Century,"
and "Final Report of the Women's Centen-
nial Executive Committee." These books
are records of women's work at the Centen-
nial, and are enclosed in cases made of
Florida red cedar, lined with Vermont
bird's-eye maple. They are to be given in
recognition and acknowledgment of the
courtesy bestowed by these sovereigns up-
on the Women's Centennial Executive
Committee.


"﻿I WAS KEPT IN."

	"Why didn't you come home to lunch?"
asked a mother of a pale, nervous little girl
as she came listlessly into the room one sul-
try afternoon, after school was out for the
day.
	"I was kept in," answered the child, and
the tired look and pitiful quiver of the voice
roused tenderness in the mother's heart
and indignation in ours.
	We are not one of those who complain or
find fault with school discipline, but it is
barbarity in the extreme to keep children
in their seats for any reason whatever dur-
ing the regular and needed seasons for rec-
reation. Then to keep a delicate little girl
whose brain is being worked to death at the
expense of her bodily forces, as any one
can see, in during the entire noon, conning
over in her dizzy little brain problems and
propositions that will come to her readily
and freely after a little rest, is barbarity
that is simply outrageous. We never hear
the expression, "I was kept in," at recess or
noon, coming from a girl or boy under six-
teen years of age, without feeling an in-
stant throb of indignation, and a desire to
give the teacher a lecture on hygiene and
humanity.—Ex.


Half of the people in the world are idle
for want of some overseeing eye to set
them to work. The advice which Haydon
gave to the erratic poet Keats, to settle
down to some definite purpose, needs be
given to almost one half of mankind.
There are but few persons but would find
themselves comfortably well off if they
would take hold of any one of a hundred
pursuits and stick to it. Industry and econ-
omy will make a most wonderful change in
many households.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
tke Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday June 23, was particularly spirited
and interesting. All who spoke seemed
to be impressed with a consciousness of the
necessity of earnest, and energetic action
on the subject of establishing home manu-
factures, and living more completely and
truly in accordance with the spirit and re-
quirements of the Gospel.
	The meeting was addressed by President
Mrs. M. I. Horne, Miss E. R. Snow, Zina D.
Young, Mrs. E. Howard, and Mrs. M. J. At-
wood, President of Kamas Relief Society;
also Mrs. W. East, Mrs. M. E. A. Wat-
mough and Mrs. M. P. Anderson, all seem-
ingly filled with the good spirit. The prin-
cipal subjects of the meeting were those
pertaining to the practical labors of the
sisters at this time; the storing of grain by
the women of Utah was emphatically dwelt
upon, and many practical points in relation
to it were impressed upon the minds of the
sisters. Sericulture and its bearing upon
the future good of the people of this Terri-
tory, was also commented largely and wise-
ly upon. The necessity of sustaining the
Woman's Commission House, where all
home-manufactured articles are offered for
sale, was another item of interest, and much
was said that would have a tendency to
stimulate the people in the right direction.
The WOMAN'S EXPONENT was spoken of by
several, who seemed to realize the great
good resulting from it, and expressed a wish
to have its subscription increased so as to
warrant its being enlarged. The women of
Utah have so many labors to perform that
are of general interest to all, that it is abso-
lutely necessary to have some medium by
which they can be apprised of each others
movements, and act in unison. The EXPO-
NENT forms a small part of church litera-
ture; it is the voice of the women of the
church, and contains a part of the record of
their labors. These meetings are becoming
more and more interesting, and if the sis-
ters, mothers and daughters, want to go
where they can have a spiritual feast, they
should attend the Woman's Meeting in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms. The
meeting opens at two o'clock p. m. and
closes at four o'clock.

			ALMY, UINTA, WYOMING TER.
						May 26th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I wrote last January informing you of our
organization into a Relief Society. As this
is a coal-mining district we are more liable
to change than other places. Brothers Pike,
Crowther and Stoddart are removing their
families to Lake Town, Bear Lake; this
renders necessary a change of officers here.
Mrs. Catherine Beveridge is appointed to
preside in the place of Mrs. Pike; Mrs.
Martha Woodhouse, Mrs. Sims, Counselors.
Several other changes for various causes
have had to be made. The sisters who
have left us rejoice that they have assisted
in starting a Relief Society in this place.
Our society has been called upon to furnish
complete suits for two aged brethren for
burial; and we have assisted those who
through age or misfortune required it. We
meet every Monday; one meeting in the
month for the Teachers, one is a general
testimony meeting, the others for sewing.
These meetings are a benefit and blessing
to us, and we appreciate the privilege of
attending them. The counsel of those who
have been called to leave our settlement, is

[Column 2]
continue to meet together, fulfil the mis-
sion given to the sisters of this place, per-
form every duty faithfully, both officers and
members, and the Lord will flood your lives
with blessings.
	Accept our respect and earnest good
wishes.
		ELIZABETH LOUSIA CROWTHER,
							Secretary.

			BENJAMIN, June 13th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We wish to introduce ourselves as one of
the Societies of the great workers of Zion.
Our Society was organized last December
by Bishop Joseph Tanner of Payson, as fol-
lows:
	Sarah S. Roontz, President,
	Mary E. Stewart,	} Counselors.
	Sarah J. Betts	}
	E. L. Rogers, Secretary,
	K. H. Richardson, Treasurer.
	There are about twenty members, who all
feel interested enough in the Kingdom of
God to spend a portion of their time and
money in aiding the noble women of Utah
in their efforts to do good to all mankind.
We live in a secluded little town called
Benjamin, which is situated in a farming
district three miles north of Payson. We
take an interest in the storing of grain by
the sisters; we have planted two acres of
wheat, which is growing nicely. We think
we have a good place for silk-culture, there
being plenty of land for that purpose. We
have planted some mulberry trees this
spring, and expect to plant a great quantity
in the fall. We enjoy reading the EXPO-
NENT very much. We have given our
place a description for the sisters who visit
the Relief Societies, that they will not for-
get to visit us.
			Yours truly,
					E. L. ROGERS, Sec'y.

			EPHRAIM, June 5th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:	The sisters in Ephraim had a very pleas-
ant and profitable time on Thursday, May
31st. There were present, besides our own,
Bishop E. Peterson and one of his counsel-
ors, Elder George Taylor, and other breth-
ren, Mrs. Zina D. Young from Salt Lake
City, Mrs. Mary J. Young and Mr. and Mrs.
Madsen from Gunnison, and Mrs. Christo-
pherson from Manti. Mrs. S. A. Peterson
presided; after the usual opening exercises,
Mrs. Zina D. Young gave us a most excel-
lent address on home industries and silk
manufacture; she showed us specimens of
silk fringe, thread, and handkerchiefs, all
of home material and manufacture. She
recommended Mrs. Jane Haddon to teach
the art of making pillow lace, in which she
is proficient; exhorted the sisters to be
faithful and obedient, and to be strictly
mindful of their duty to their dead friends.
On Friday evening she addressed the young
ladies and gentlemen; her instructions were
almost invaluable, truly full of the Spirit of
God. On Friday, the 1st of June, the 76th
birthday of President Brigham Young,
there was a dinner party given in honor of
the day, at which Mrs. Zina D. Young was
present. May God spare him and his for
many years.
		Your sister,
				AGNES S. ARMSTRONG.

				PAYSON, June 7th, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	The annual meeting of the Payson Relief
Society was held May 20th, 1877, on which

[Column 3]
occasion the house was decorated with the
handiwork of the sisters as well as works
of art contributed by the brethren. A
poem on home industry, silk culture, the
storing of grain, talents, wisdom, fashion
and virtue, composed for the occasion by
Mrs. A. M. Snyder, was read. Among the
visitors were Bishop Tanner, Elders Henry
W. Barnett, J. L. Townsend, Edward Reed
and several other brethren, also the Presi-
dent of the Relief Society at Goshen, her
counselors, secretary, and other members
of the Society. After the meeting had
been opened in the usual way the annual
report was read, which showed that there
had been received during the year:
Donations..................................... $230 33 ½
Disbursed..................................... $159 09
After which the President, Mrs. Jane Si-
mons said she was pleased to see so many
present. She called the attention of the
meeting to a pair of socks, the silk raised,
spun and knit by Mrs. Grace Wegnall; also
a pair of black silk mitts by Mrs. Arteme-
sia White; artificial flowers by Miss Lillie
Curtis; crochet basket by Miss Fannie
Coombs, and many other handsome articles,
too numerous to mention. There were
also fancy brackets for flower-pots, hanging-
baskets and many other things by J. L. Towns-
end; and paintings by the brethren. The
speaker said, as a society all had tried to fill
their missions, and the president had tried
to act in concert with the Bishop.
	Elders Henry Barnett, J. L. Townsend,
and Edward Reed each addressed the meet-
ing and gave good counsel, and encouraged
the sisters to persevere in their united la-
bors.
	President Mrs. Simons said she would
like to hear from Bishop Tanner, but he
said there was not time.
	We have a lot planted with mulberry
trees. The City Council has granted us
another; if successful with the mulberry
trees and raising the worms they will grant
us three more. Our president with her
counselors and all the sisters feel anxious
to fill their mission in sericulture, and all
other counsel that is given, and join with
me in love, wishing every success to at-
tend your labors.
					M. A. HARDY.

	HOOPER, WEBER Co., June 14th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society numbers one hundred
and thirty-eight members and although we
may have been slow in writing to your val-
uable and interesting paper, we have nev-
ertheless been actively engaged in the good
works of duty and benevolence. The poor
and sick have received every attention in
our power to bestow. It is well known that
our settlement extends over a large breadth
of country, consequently our people are
scattered, yet notwithstanding this our
meetings are well attended and we enjoy
ourselves at these assemblies. Mrs. Ade-
line Belnap is President, ably assisted by
Mrs. Margaret Manning, and Mrs. Mary
Jargensen, her counselors, Mrs. Elizabeth
Guilliam, Secretary, and Mrs. Mary Stevens
Treasurer. Unity and a good spirit prevails.
The health of the people is good, the bless-
ings of God are abundantly bestowed upon
us.
	Asking our heavenly Father to bless you
in your noble work among your sisters, and
that the EXPONENT may always be as it is
now a welcome visitor.
	Respectfully, your sister in the Gospel,
			ELIZABETH GUILLIAM, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		19


For the EXPONENT
EARTH WEARY. 

Through heat and dust, till the gloom of night,
	I had wrought my task alone;
And in the strife between "might and right"
	My spirit so weak had grown,
With eyes that drooped in the heavenly light,
	I came to the Master's Throne.

Nor shame, I am here, but weary, laid
	My burden down at his feet.
Waiting his time; while earthward strayed
	Sad thoughts to hearts that beat
As full a life, as when I made
	My sacrifice complete.

What hast thou brought me back, my child?
	My heavenly Master said.
A broken heart all earth-defiled,
	Whence faith in human kind is fled;
Where weeds of human kind run wild,
	And heaven-lent strength is dead.

And what hast thou with the sinful done?
	My heavenly Master said.
I have shunned the path of the sinful one,
	Can the blind by the blind be led?
My hands from his no stain has won,
	Nor my NAME a stain, I said.

Thy Saviour walked with the sinful man,
	No stain His name doth bear:
The stain which doth the sinful brand,
	A tear might wash it fair:
And if thy heart go with thy hand.
	It toucheth him as a prayer.

And how hast thou with the lonely dealt?
	The orphan heart in they care
Have they the joy of thy home-life felt?
	Hast thou led them from the snare?
Had they place beside ye when ye knelt;
	And in thy love a share?

And hath thy heart unto me stood true
	When the Tempter entered in?
Lord, I have striven Thy will to do;
	Yet oft have forgetful been
When earthly sorrows pierced me through:
	Yet I strove thy love to win.

None so alone and dismayed can be,
	As one who hath God forgot.
Though bowed with grief, thou seest not me,
	Thy Master forsaketh not;
And 'mid despair my love shalt see
	If ye faithful bear thy lot.

And would ye [-]urn from the harvest field?
	My heavenly Master said;
Return and toil—for I am thy shield—
	In the way thy Saviour led;
Toil and rejoice in the work revealed
	For the living and the dead!

Then while the mournful tears did rise
	For the heavenly rest denied,
I lifted up mine aching eyes,
	Lo! a curtain parted wide;
And my being thrilled with swift surprise,
	For the DEAD thronged far and wide.

They lifted their holy eyes to mine
	In appeal more deep than speech;
But each heart-cry, by the power divine,
	To my human heart did reach,
'Till with their souls, and before His throne,
	We bowed in covenant each.

Then I cried! I go to the earth again!
	To labor and not to mourn;
Noting no more the wrongs of man,
	For a light in my soul doth burn,
That will bless and brighten duty, 'till when
	I shall hear Him call return.

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCH[--]RON.
June 11th, 1877.


[Column 1]

A FEW REFLECTIONS.

(CONTINUED.)

	I know some say this principle belonged
to the Mosaic dispensation, and was done
away when Christ came and fulfilled the
law given to Moses. Gentlemen and ladies,
I do not so understand it; this was a law
revealed in the dispensation of the patri-
archs, and handed down to Moses, and he
was wise enough to obey it, otherwise he
would have come under condemnation, how

[Column 2]

ever strict he might have been to observe
the laws given to him to govern his own
peculiar people. Abraham as well as Moses
offered sacrifices. Why? Because God
commanded them to do so, as a type of the
Great Sacrifice which should be offered—
even Christ the Lamb of God, to atone for
the sins of the world, that as man by trans-
gression had been driven from the presence
of God, he might through the atonement
and faith in His Son, be brought back again
to enjoy the Father's presence.
	And when Christ came in the meridian
of time he said, "I come not to destroy the
law or the prophets, but to fulfill." [Mat.
5th chap., 17th verse.] And by his cruci-
fixion he fulfilled the law of sacrifice, and
made a new law in the stead thereof, which
is the law of sacrament, in commemoration
of His broken body and spilt blood; and
this law is binding upon all who believe in
the gospel, and enter in at the door, as laid
down by Jesus and his Apostles having au-
thority from God. Now as there are many
who say there is not anything in the sayings
of the Savior, or in the New Testament,
in favor of plural marriage, before we pro-
ceed further please allow me to ask you a
question. Does it look reasonable, or is it
at all consistent, that God, who says He can
not look upon sin with the least degree of
allowance, should command all these say-
ings to be preserved and handed down as a
law and guide for the salvation of all fu-
ture generations, and hold up these patri-
archs and their works as an example
worthy of imitation, if He did not believe
in and sanction the principles they taught
and practised? It is written—"A house di-
vided against itself cannot stand." The
Savior not only refers the people to Abra-
ham, Isaac and Jacob, as also Moses, but in
Matthew, 17th chapter, 2d and 3d verses,
it says: "After Jesus was transfigured be-
fore them (Peter, James and John)
behold, then appeared unto them Moses and
Elias talking with him." In Matthew 22d
chapter and 32d verse, "I am the God of
Abraham, and the God of Isaac and the
God of Jacob," thus mentioning, as most
worthy the love and esteem of His Father,
these noted patriarchs of plural marriage;
and in John, 5th chapter, 46th verse, he
said: "For had ye believed Moses, ye would
have believed me: for he wrote of me. But
if ye believed not his writings how shall
ye believe my words." It plainly appears
by these remarks that Christ and Moses
were one in faith and doctrine. Again, in
Luke, 13th chapter, 28th verse, he said:
"There shall be weeping and gnashing of
teeth when ye shall see Abraham, Isaac and
Jacob, and all the prophets in the kingdom
of God, and you yourselves thrust out."
John, 8th chapter, 39th verse, he said: "If
you were Abraham's children ye would do
the works of Abraham;" thereby showing
that he not only approved his works, but
would that others should follow his exam-
ple.
	The twelve patriarchs spoken of by the
Apostles in Acts, 7th chapter, 8th verse,
were the sons of Jacob by his plural wives.
In Acts, 13th chapter, 22d and 23d verses,
when Paul and Barnabas were teaching the
people the word of God, the Gospel as
preached by their forefathers, in order to
impress it more firmly upon their minds
they told them how the Lord said, "I have
found David the son of Jesse, a man after
mine own heart, which shall fulfill all my
will. Of this man's seed hath God, accord-
ing to his promise, raised unto Israel a Sa-
vior, Jesus."
	Hence, to my understanding this patri-
archal, polygamic tree has been always a

[Column 3]

favorite and chosen tree of the Lord of the
vineyard; and that no other could be found
which suited his purposes so well; and by
the fruit thereof we are to judge what man-
ner of tree it is. And of this tree Jesus is
the fruit. He could not condemn or do
away with it, for in so doing he would con-
demn himself; and not only that, but des-
troy the plan of the restoration of the whole
human family.
	Now, as we have analyzed the tree and
some of its main branches, and the fruit
thereof, and found them to be accepted of
the Lord of the vineyard, and a chosen seed,
we will search and learn what kind of a
root it has, for if you gentlemen and ladies
are determined to destroy this tree, you
should understand what you will have to
do in order to accomplish your designs.
We will discuss with you the root of this
patriarchal tree in our next chapter.
	(TO BE CONTINUED.)


ORGANIZATION OF UTAH COUNTY
SILK ASSOCIATION.

		AMERICAN FORK, June 9th, 1877.
	According to previous appointment, a
meeting was held at this place at 2 p. m.,
for the purpose of organizing a Silk Asso-
ciation for Utah County. Nearly all the
settlements were represented. We were
also favored with the company of Judge
Pyper of Salt Lake City. Meeting called to
order by D. Graves of Provo, and motioned
that Bishop L. E. Harrington act as Chair-
man of the meeting, and Wm. Greenwood
Secretary of the same.
	The chairman stated the object of the
meeting, which was to organize for the
raising of silk, and combining our efforts
for that purpose. Daniel Graves expressed
the interest he felt, and his anxiety to see
the day when silk raising would be a suc-
cess in Utah.
	Judge Pyper gave at length his experi-
ence in raising silk worms, and the neces-
sity of opening up a market for the disposal
of the silk, etc., in order to obtain means
to remunerate the laborer. Spoke very in-
terestingly on the habits and treatment of
the worms, and also of the many causes of
failure. Gave instructions concerning the
raising of the mulberry tree, and referred
to the small plantation under the superin-
tendance of Mrs. Mary Hindley, President
of the Relief Society of American Fork, as
very creditable, and set out just right.
	Samuel Cornaby related some of his
practical experience with the worms, and
recommended that we never cease our ex-
ertions until we make silk raising a success
in Utah.
	Short addresses were given by Bishop
George Halliday of Santaquin, Mrs. Han-
nah Woolley and Mrs. Mary Hindley.
	A committee were then chosen to nomi-
nate officers for the organization. During
their absence Judge Pyper addressed the
meeting interestingly, and recommended
the planting of mulberry trees in our or-
chards and around our fences, etc.
	The committee then reported the follow-
ing names, which were unanimously adopt-
ed:
	President, Mrs. Mary Hindley of Ameri-
can Fork; Vice Presidents will embrace all
the Presidents of Relief Societies and Re-
trenchment Associations in Utah County,
or their representatives elect; Secretary,
Mrs. Emma Featherstone of American
Fork; Treasurer, Mrs. Jemima Durant of
American Fork; Corresponding Secretary,
Mrs. Samuel Cornaby of Spanish Fork;
Traveling Agent, Daniel Graves of Provo.
	E. FEATHERSTONE.


20		WOMAN'S		EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREEN RICHARDS,			} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.				}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms; One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 1, 1877.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S EXPECTATIONS.

	It is often remarked that the women of the
present age are trying to revolutionize the 
world. That a new era for woman has com-
menced here in America and elsewhere is pos-
itive and apparent. From nearly all quarters
of the globe come the tidings of woman's ad-
vancement, or development, or influence in
some new sphere, or public capacity. 
	This is real. Woman's star is in the ascend-
ant. Woman begins to feel in a greater degree
the influence of the mission given her to per-
form, and a presentiment of the blessings
which are to be bestowed upon her when she
arrives at a more advanced practise of the true
laws of life and health. This consciousness
of something which is to come, is so widely ap-
parent as to affect almost all womankind.
They know there is a change to be effected and 
they are striving for it many of them, but in dif-
ferent ways. What is the cause of this peculiar
genius of the age, and what its signification?
Can the wise, the learned, the philosopher, the
sage, the great observers of human nature and 
"the signs of the times" inform us? We know
what they can tell us, and that is all they
comprehend about it. This is their summing
up of the matter. Woman feels her servitude,
her degradation, and she is determined to as-
sert her rights, to attain to an equality with 
man, and to train herself to fill any position
and places of trust and honor as appropriately
and with as much dignity as her brother man.
That she may not be compelled to conditions
that are distasteful and objectionable in matri-
mony, that she shall have rights and privi-
leges peculiarly her own and be able to protect
herself in them. That she need not be held
as goods and chattels at the mercy or brutality
of man. To be brief, they believe her highest
motive is, that she may be recognized as a re-
sponsible being, capable of judging for and
maintaining herself, and standing upon just as
broad, grand and elevated a platform as man.
This is all the wisdom of the world's wise acres
can tell you. The majority of men hold such
ideas in derision. Woman, they say is to them
in her dependency, dearer, lovelier, more com-
panionable than when she steps out of her 
sphere and seeks to become equal in education,
and in self-reliance to man. One great Eng-
lish writer in alluding to the subject says, such
movements will tend to make "masculine wo-
men and effeminate men."  On the contrary,
we argue that such mothers as have disciplined
themselves to rely more fully upon their own
judgment, who have been educated to a high
standard in all that the science of life can teach,
in all departments of knowledge which pertain
to the development of mental or physical fac-
ulties, will exercise such pre-natal and after

[Column 2]

influences over their offspring as will imbue
their sons with noble intutitions and higher
aspirations, than the mother whose most en-
grossing object in life is the diligent care of her
husband's house and the fear of losing any por-
tion of his affection. To many women this 
fear is the bane of their lives, and to obtain,
and retain the husband's love, is more to them
than the salvation of their own souls, or the 
present or future welfare of their offspring.
	When woman's highest incentive is to attain
to the most superior excellence in the discip-
ling and refining of the faculties of the soul,
when she esteems these of more consequence
than the cultivation of the graces and accom-
plishments that will charm the senses, and 
captivate the hearts of the opposite sex, then
will much of the jealousy and envy which now
exists, sink into oblivion; and a great share of
the unhappiness among men and women will
consequently give place to healthier thoughts
and purer feelings.
	Then women will be capable of a more ex-
alted sentiment in the associations of a mari-
tal nature, and it will be none the less genuine
because it is governed and controlled by higher
thoughts and holier impulses. Through such
channels of cultivation and refinement of soul,
woman may eventually attain to a fuller reali-
zation of her future destiny. And as woman
thus steps forward and takes a higher step to-
wards perfection, she will naturally aspire to
unite herself in the sacred and holy covenant
of marriage with a higher type of manhood.
Thus may woman become a real helper in the 
preparation to be made for "the coming of the
Bridegroom." Is it not reasonable to suppose
that the divinity in woman's nature is being in-
fluenced by the spirit of the age which betokens
the near approach of the great advent of the 
Messiah? There is a power which mankind do
not understand that is working among the in-
habitants of the earth. It is the ushering in 
of the great final movement for the redemption
of the human family, the living and the dead:
and as woman was first in the transgression, 
first at the sepulchre, first to proclaim the res-
urrection of Christ, it is but consistent with the
past to suppose, she will be an active and po-
tent helper in the restoration of all things,
which will include the removal of the curse
placed upon her after her transgression, and 
which will restore woman to her true position.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	MANY THANKS to Mrs. Elizabeth Wheeler
of Sugar House Ward, who placed upon our ta-
ble recently a dish of most delicious red-ripe
cherries, also a bouquet of wild-wood flowers
for which we have always felt a decided prefer-
ence. They carry our thoughts back unbidden
to childhood with its thousand familiar
haunts, where the lily-of-the-valley, the blue-
eyed daisy, the forget-me-not, the fragrant
honeysuckle and all the varieties of woodland
wild flowers bloomed in profusion. Yes give
us the "wild-wood flowers, sweet wild-wood
flowers."
	A SISTER IN Ephraim, Sanpete Co. has for-
warded the following for publication; a remedy
for the Codling moth, and although perhaps it
is rather late in the season now, it may be well
to know it:
	We have heard many cures for the Codling
moth, such as illuminated washtubs and the
like, which doubtless are all good in their way;
now I will give you another way. Go out into
your lots, examine your trees, you will find
little patches of yellow eggs, you have seen
flies blow meat, they are something like it,


only darker colored. Take with you all your
children that can reach the branches, then treat
them (that is the moths,) as I have done: take
your thumb, you can put a rag around it if
you like, and smash the eggs; set about it at
once for the eggs are swelling, in this way you
can destroy millions. It has been effectual in
hundreds of instances.

	A SPECIAL MEETING of the Relief Society
of Taylorsville, North Jordan Ward, Salt Lake
Co., was held Tuesday, June 26, for the purpose
of organizing the young ladies of the ward in-
to a Retrenchment Association. Bishop Sam-
uel Bennion, his counselors and some other
brethren were present. Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. M. I Horne, Mrs. E. S. Barney, and Mrs.
E. B. Wells from Salt Lake City, were also
present by invitation. Mrs. M. I Horne was
nominated by Miss E. R. Snow to preside over
the meeting, and Miss Hattie Bennion was
chosen to act as secretary pro tem. The
officers were chosen and sustained by the vote
of the Bishop, the Relief Society and all pres-
ent. Mrs. Mary Ann Hague was elected as
president, Miss Hattie Bennion, secretary.
Some business was transacted pertaining to the
society, and many good things were said by
the Bishop and the sisters, bringing in the sub-
ject of women's organizations, storing grain,
sericulture, The Woman's Store, the necessity
of being practically self-sustaining, and
other things which pertain to the department
of woman's labor in the kingdom of God.


ITEMS FROM THE DIARY OF JOSEPH
SMITH.

TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY, NAUVOO, JUNE
	9th, 1842. REPORTED BY MISS E. R.
	SNOW.

[CONTINUED]

	President Joseph Smith opened the meet-
ing by prayer, and then addressed the congre-
gation on the design of the institution. Said
it is no matter how fast the society increases,
if all the members are virtuous; that we must
be as particular with regard to the character of
members now, as when the society first start-
ed; that sometimes persons wish to crowd
themselves into a society of this kind when
they do not intend to pursue the ways of pur-
ity and righteousness, as if the society would
be a shelter to them in their iniquity.
	He said that henceforth no person shall be
admitted, but by presenting regular petitions,
signed by two or three members in good stand-
ing in the society, and whoever comes in must
be of good report.
	Objections having been previously made
against Mahala Overton, they were removed;
after which President Joseph Smith continued
his address; said he was going to preach mercy.
Suppose that Jesus Christ and holy angels
should object to us on frivolous things, what
would become of us?  We must be merciful to
one another, and overlook small things.
	Respecting the reception of sister Overton,
President Joseph Smith said: It grieves me
that there is no fuller fellowship; if one mem-
ber suffer all feel it; by union of feeling we ob-
tain power with God. Christ said he came to
call sinners to repentance, and save them.
Christ was condemned by the self-righteous
Jews because he took sinners into his society;
he took them upon the principle that they re-
pented of their sins. It is the object of this so-
ciety to reform persons, not to take those who
who are corrupt and foster them in their wick-
edness; but if they repent we are bound to


[Column 1]
take them, and by kindness sanctify and
cleanse them from all unrighteousness by our
influence in watching over them. Nothing
will have such influence over people as the
fear of being disfellowshipped by so goodly a
society as this. Then take sister Overton as
Jesus received sinners into his bosom. Sister
Overton, in the name of the Lord, I now make
you free. Nothing is so much calculated to
lead people to forsake sin as to take them by
the hand, and watch over them with tender-
ness. When persons manifest the least kind-
ness or love toward me, O what power it has
over my mind, while the opposite course has a
tendency to harrow up all the harsh feelings
and depress the human mind.
	It is one evidence that men are unacquaint-
ed with the principles of godliness to behold
the contraction of affectionate feelings and lack
of charity in the world. The power and glory
of godliness is spread out on a broad principle
to throw out the mantle of charity. God does
not look upon sin with allowance, but when
men have sinned, there must be allowance
made for them.
	All the religious world is boasting of right-
eousness: it is the doctrine of the devil to re-
tard the human mind, and hinder our progress,
by filling us with self-rightousness. The
nearer we get to our Heavenly Father, the
more are we disposed to look with compassion
on perishing souls; we feel that we want to
take them upon our shoulders, and cast their
sins behind our backs. My talk is intended
for all this society; if you would have God
have mercy on you, have mercy on one an-
other.
	President Smith then referred them to the
conduct of the Savior when he was taken and
crucified, etc.
	He then made a promise in the name of the
Lord, saying that that soul who has right-
eousness enough to ask God in the secret place
for life, every day of their lives, shall live to
three score years and ten. We must walk up-
rightly all the day long. How glorious are the
principles of righteousness! We are full of
selfishness; the devil flatters us that we are
very righteous, when we are feeding on the
faults of others. We can only live by worship-
ping our God; all must do it for themselves;
none can do it for another. How mild the
Savior dealt with Peter, saying, "When thou
art converted, strengthen thy brethren." At
another time, he said to him, "Lovest thou
me?" and having received Peter's reply, he
said, "Feed my sheep." If the sisters love the
Lord, let them feed the sheep, and not destroy
them. How oft have wise men and women
sought to dictate brother Joseph by saying,
"Oh, if I were brother Joseph, I would do this
and that;" but if they were in brother Joseph's
shoes they would find that men or women
could not be compelled into the Kingdom of
God, but must be dealt with in long suffering,
and at last we shall save them. The way to
keep all the saints together, and keep the work
rolling, is to wait with all long-suffering, till
God shall bring such characters to justice.
There should be no license for sin, but mercy
should go hand in hand with reproof.
	Sisters of this society, shall there be strife
among you? I WILL NOT HAVE IT. You
must repent, and get the love of God. Away
with self-righteousness. The best measure or
principle to bring the poor to repentance is to
administer to their wants; the Ladies Relief
Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to
save souls.
	President Smith then said that he would
give a lot of land to the society, by deeding it
to the treasurer, that the society may build

[Column 2]
houses for the poor. He also said he would
give a house, frame not finished, and that
brother Cahoon will move it on to the afore-
said lot, and the society can pay him by giv-
ing orders on the store; that it was a good plan
to set those to work who are owing widows,
and thus made an offset; etc.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HELP.

		Oh how beautiful is health
		To the weary, on the shelf.
	That is truth whoever wrote it. How often
we see sufferers of every grade, come to the
last days of life before the helping hand is
stretched out to them; when the sands of life
are nearly run out, the lying bed is, perhaps,
surrounded with sympathizing friends, good
things pour in, but the eyes of the dying can
only look, "too late!" Six months, or a year
before, had these comforts flowed in, the life
now pas ing away might, with the blessing of
God, have been renovated, the spirit now broken,
spirit might have been propped up, and invig-
orated  Blessed is the hand held out in time
to save! But it is not always in sickness that
help is needed; the man full of health requires
much more than the sick—good health is im-
perative, and Nature is peremptory in her de-
mands; sickness asks only a cooling drink for
the parched lips, a sweet, cool bed, a nicely ar-
ranged pillow and a loving friend to smoothe
it; a nurse that has tact and talent in her office,
these are nearly all the invalid requires. But
health is life and animation, health springs
from the couch throws off the wrappers, says:
I want to be clothed, I want food, I am well
again, bless the Great Physician, I am well
again! I can work, and be useful once again,
I have come down from the intermediate state.
I am again of the earth, my Mother Earth,
and I love her! Give me work I can again be
useful and sustain my family, once again see
peace and plenty within my home! Alas! in
these days, the strong man, the willing man,
the man ready to do anything to procure hon-
est bread for his young children, seeks to labor,
but day by day has to live on a "hope deferred"
till he is well nigh "sick unto death"—a diag-
ging out of existence is the lot of those who
have no helping hand with influence in it
stretched out for them. Cannot work be found
for those who loathe the "bread of idleness?
Industry and labor are always honorable, and
should be rewarded for Scripture says "the la-
borer is worthy of his hire." Bread eaten by
labor is sweet, and all know it who eat such!
Amen.
	HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. City, June 26, 1877.


PAY AS YOU GO.

SELECTED.

	The credit system is one of the most pernic-
ious evils which afflict a community. It is
detrimental alike to the interests of the buyer
and the seller. Bad debts have devoured the
fortunes of thousands of once prosperous mer-
chants and left them hopelessly in bankruptcy;
and large debts have turned thousands out of
mansions into hovels, and clothed with rags
backs which have worn broadcloth and camel's
hair. A system which thus impoverishes all
classes. must of course, result in the general
depression of trade and the universal injury of 
a people. An establishment which has sold
goods for uncertain promises until the sheriff
can no longer resist the pressing invitation to
take what is left, is never reckoned in its in-


<atrtb'when they="" do="" not="" they?baukruptuhe="" ttader.iitn'="" arfy<evdbt="" the="" system="" -has="" a="" tenddh'cy'td="" mkk’d="" everyb’5dy="" poorer'vuii'n="" i="" vshh.v="" bourn..vjij="" vi-nuj="" jhr="" oiodw="" ,r="" <="" nl="" tic="" nub="" dans="" o-i="" iliv?<="" div="">solvency as a part of the wealth of a commu-
nity, and a store whose shelves are loaded with 
merchandise, but is among a people whose ex-
travagance, engendered and fostered by the
credit system, has plunged them into bank-
ruptcy, will never add much to the prosperity
of itself or its neighborhood.
	There is never any remarkable business ac-
tivity in a poor-house, and most of people
have always considered that this lack of enter-
prise in such a place is because it is a poor-
house. Money is a necessary motive-power in
trade. But the credit system has a direct ten-
dency to eat up both money and merchandise.
It has probably not escaped the notice of the
observing that there is in every community a
class of merchants who strenuously advocate a 
credit in preference to a cash system. This at
<atrtb'when they="" do="" not="" they?baukruptuhe="" ttader.iitn'="" arfy<evdbt="" the="" system="" -has="" a="" tenddh'cy'td="" mkk’d="" everyb’5dy="" poorer'vuii'n="" i="" vshh.v="" bourn..vjij="" vi-nuj="" jhr="" oiodw="" ,r="" <="" nl="" tic="" nub="" dans="" o-i="" iliv?<="" div="">first sight looks remarkably strange; but on 
second thought it appears in an entirely dif-
ferent light. These men are not generally
over conscientious, and they very truthfully
argue that a man or woman will buy more and
pay better prices under the credit system than
if they were obliged to pay cash. And here is
where the difficulty lies; people contract debts
without knowing it, and if they pay them
they bankrupt themselves, and when they do
not they bankrupt the trader. In any event
the system has a tendency to make everybody
poorer.


NOTICE.

	We are pleased to announce to the Ladies'
Medical Class of Salt Lake City, and other
ladies who may wish to join the class, that Mrs.
Zina D. Young, will meet with them, to aid and
assist them in the pursuit of the study of Obstet-
rics.	The class will meet at the office of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT every Wednesday, at
4 o'clock p.m., commencing July 11th. The
ladies will please bring their books, and it is
hoped they will receive mutual benefit. A
punctual attendance is desired.


SHREDS AND GLEANINGS.﻿

	CHILDHOOD's progress—From pap to
papa.
	WHY is a palmtree like a chronologer?
Because it furnishes dates.
	JEFFERSON's idea of a lawyer: A man
whose trade is to contest everything, con-
cede nothing, and talk by the hour.
	A READING people will become a thinking
people, and then they are capable of becom-
ing a rational and a great people.
	A RICH but parsimonious old gentleman,
on being taken to task for his uncharitable-
ness, said, "True, I don't give much, but if
you only knew how it hurts when I give
anything, you wouldn't wonder."
	"DON'T show my letters;" wrote a young
man to a young lady whom he adored;
"Don't be afraid," was the reply, "I'm just
as much ashamed of them as you are."
	A BOY was riding on his father's back
when the latter suggested that it was rather
an elevated railroad:  "Yes, pa," said the 
youngster, "I'm riding on a dummy."
	TWO rural constituents were talking of
the new member of the legislature from
their district. "Is he talented?" asked one.
"Well," replied the other, "I should say he
might set a house on fire by rubbing his
nose against the door post."


22		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO THE YOUNG LADIES ASSOCIA-
TIONS.

	My dear young friends, I have often
thought I would like to address a few lines
to you, which may possibly help to strength-
en and encourage some, and will, at least,
injure none.
	All parents who love their children are
greatly interested in the Associations for
the young. Even though they may be self-
ish and narrow-minded they desire the ad-
vancement of their own; and young peo-
ple more than older ones are sure to par-
take, in a great degree, of their surround-
ings.
	Some of you, in accordance with the
counsel of President Young, have adopted
resolutions in your societies, to stop round
dancing in your public halls; and to such I
will say, in the name of One whose prom-
ises never fail, if you will be firm in your
resolves you will yet realize a blessing
therefrom; and to those who have not, do
not turn away in disgust, with a feeling in
your hearts that you do not wish to hear
anything on the subject. You all exclaim
it is the most enjoyable form of dance we
have, and I agree with you. What could
be more beautiful or interesting, either to
participator or beholder, than a graceful,
nicely performed waltz? I believe there
will be such dancing in paradise, where all
will be pure and true in their actions and
emotions, and the heartless libertine cannot
clasp the innocent maiden to his vile breast.
Many think the Lord would not deign to
influence the minds of His servants in mat-
ters of so small moment, but to such I
would say, you know not His ways; and to
those who are doubtful, and have not confi-
dence to believe that this counsel has been
dictated by the Spirit of God, there is but
one way by which you can obtain that
knowledge, and the way is open to all. If
you are living in the enjoyment of the
Spirit of God yourselves you cannot be de-
ceived. We do not wish to hold the old
sectarian lake of fire and brimstone before
our young people, and preach to them until
they hate the sound of religion, but we
wish to see them gently and willingly led
by that peaceful influence which the Spirit
of God brings. When I have seen the
youthful stand up in the calm assurance
which His spirit brings, with no puffed up
confidence in their own greatness, but a
firm reliance on Him who is Omnipotent,
and speak in defense of the principles which
they have embraced, I have been led to ex-
claim, what could be more beautiful! Surely
all within their hearing, who have a heaven
born feeling left within them, must in
their hearts be convinced of the truths to
which they bear witness. I believe the
time will soon come when many of our
young people will arouse, and shake off
their feelings of worldly-mindedness; o that
such may be the case is the sincere prayer
of a mother in Zion.
	L. P.


[Column 1]
	PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE.

			RIVERSIDE, CAL., June 6.
					As I sit here on the
broad verandah encircling Glenwood, watch-
ing the graceful pepper trees as they wave
to and fro, casting dense shadows over the
floor, feeling the soft breath of the sea
breeze as it creeps through the grape vine
lattice, it calls to memory the first day I
passed in Salt Lake, in October last, when
the locusts were nodding familiarly to each

[Column 2]
other as they shadowed the Townsend
House porch and occasionally a bright yel-
low leaf flitted noiselessly down into the
water and was borne away out of sight.
There is so much beauty and companion-
ship to me in trees and shrubs, that no
landscape seems perfect without them. I
thought I had never seen anything so Eden-
like in its beauty as some of the trees in
Salt Lake City, and I have been reminded
of them often in watching these in this
yard. I was so delighted with my first
glimpse of Zion, which was indeed to me a
city of rest, and always in connection with
thoughts of that place comes the recollec-
tions of my pleasant acquaintance with you
and yours, and I shall always feel so grate-
for having come to know you. I so often
think of the conversations we have had,
the songs the boys and girls sang for me, and
I wonder if we shall all enjoy the same ex-
perience together again—surely, I trust so.
	You ask for my impression of this coun-
try—I can scarcely tell you. The stage-ride
from Idaho to San Francisco was through a
delightful country, early in spring. Vege-
tation was rapidly advancing, and the broad
panoramic vision was a succession of delight-
ful landscapes, containing beautiful trees,
flowers, etc. Nature had on her richest
garments. The wonderful city of the Bay
—the great planet of the West—I was dis-
appointed in; so much has been said of it,
and yet it does not compare favorably with
Eastern cities—Oakland is much more de-
sirable as a home. The old ocean in all its
marvellous grandeur was a sight never to
be forgotten, and "I gathered shells by the
seashore" while listening to the sullen roar
of the surf. From Los Angelos the trip
was through an uninteresting country, and
I was quite glad when it was at an end.
Los Angelos is a very pretty city, though it
does not meet the expectation, I think, of
all tourists, so much has been said of its
marvellous beauty; nor is it so desirable for
invalids as other towns farther inland. I
enjoyed greatly a ride about the city and
through the orange groves, where the yellow
fruit and white blossoms contrasted beauti-
fully with the dark shining background of
leaves.
	After a short sojourn I left there and
came to Riverside, 60 miles distant. This
is a colony town of about 1200 inhabitants,
established four or five years ago, and is 6
miles distant from the railroad. The glow-
ing letters written from Southern Califor-
nia had given me the impression that it
must be the Eden of the world; but I found
it a dry and barren desert, and all the beau-
ty existing was that produced by irrigation
and hard labor; and in its original state was
destitute of anything save sagebrush scat-
tered here and there over the plain that
was as devoid of beauty as Idaho Flat. But
the possibilities of this country are unlim-
ited—it is quite possible to imagine if you
were to plant a broomstick in this product-
ive soil it would produce the choicest flow-
ers. Among the mountains and foothills
grow the most lovely wild flowers the sun
ever shone upon, whose beauty far exceeds
the choicest of hot-house plants; and along
the river bottoms the wild grape vine
stretches out its arms and clambers over
rocks, trees, shrubs, etc., in a most artistic
and charming fashion.
	"Water—more water," is the cry that
comes up from all over Southern California,
particularly this year, though as yet this
town, which has two large canals, supplied
from Santa Ana River, has not been visited
by drouth, and the yards and gardens are
very lovely. At first, as I said, I was dis-

[Column 3]
appointed, but each day new beauties and
possibilities are developed, that serve to 
strengthen my faith, and to-day I am as in-
sane upon the subject as the "oldest inhab-
itant." This district is a new one, and is
being set out to orange groves for a distance
of nine miles; a few trees are bearing, but
the majority will not produce fruit for a
few years. Lemons, limes, figs, pomegran-
ates, almonds, walnuts, etc., are cultivated
largely also.
	The Society of Riverside is all one could
desire, being composed of New Englanders,
a few New Yorkers, etc., all refined, culti-
vated, scholarly people. The schools are
excellent; three churches and several liter-
ary societies.


YOUNG MEN—AND OLD?

	I have been asked, "How is it that so
many young girls of the present day, in-
stead of marrying men whose ages corres-
pond to their own, seem, in preference, to
celect middle-aged, or even elderly men for
husbands? Is not this mating of 'January
and May' an outrage against decency and
nature?” Not at all. Some people attrib-
ute this preference for men of mature age
to a mercenary spirit on the part of the
young girls or their parents. I think that,
although marriages between youth and age
are, as a rule, undesirable, there may be
other reasons than speculative ones which
attract young women toward middle-aged
or elderly men.
	Men of mature years are aware that all
women are attracted by gentleness of man-
ner and deference to their sex. Conse-
quently they, as a rule, cultivate "the small,
sweet courtesies of life," which costs so lit-
tle to those born with instincts of gentle-
men, and which are responded to by women
of every age and condition with interest
and gratitude.
	It is frequently charged upon girls of the
day, that they are vain and frivolous to an
alarming degree. This is true to some ex-
tent, but the young men of the period,
with rare exceptions, are in addition to
these follies, characterized by a rudeness
and imbecility which have heretofore had
no parallel in the history of the human
race. Vain, foppish, blatant, coarse, and to
all save those they have a special fancy for,
uncivil, they are a disgrace to the age in
which they belong. Perfect blanks as to
intellect, perfect bores as to manners, the
young men of the present day, as a rule,
have nothing but their soft hands, and their
infinitely softer heads to recommend them
to the favorable notice of the sex to which,
with the discrimination peculiar to idiots,
consequent of a vacuum in the skull, they
fancy themselves mentally and physically
superior. The middle-class young man, as
a rule, is rude in his instincts uncivil in his
expressions, brutal in his mirth, and is, in
fact, with a more effeminate physique, in
manner, speech and act, a "Caliban" of the
most decided stamp. Those, who by birth
and social position are spoken of as belong-
ing to the upper classes, have a quiet, su-
perciliousness, an insolence of manner to-
wards women with whom they are famil-
iar, which is only endurable because it is
less demonstrative and obtrusive than that
which characterizes those of a lower social
status.
	Middle-aged and elderly men belong to
an age when deference to the sex to which
their mothers belonged was made as im-
portant a part of the education of a gentle-
man as were the articles of his faith to the
creed of a Christian. No matter how old


or unattractive, or how low in station a wo-
man might be, the simple fact of woman-
hood was a claim upon the kindness and
civility of the opposite sex. Half a cen-
tury ago society did not allow a young man
to ignore his mother or to snub his sisters as
unworthy of any attention or consideration
from his high mightiness. The old chival-
ric spirit of protection and deference to the
physically weaker sex was inculcated upon
boys of all classes and conditions, and rude-
ness of speech or brutality of act towards
a woman, would, in the society of a gener-
ation or two ago, have met with sudden and
severe castigation.
	No wonder that the "cold shoulder" of
the girl of the period—vain and frivolous
as she is—should be turned to young men,
and that she should prefer to venture her
happiness with one who held her sex in
some honor and respect, even if that one
should be no longer youthful or externally
attractive! Thank heaven that, weak and
hollow as she may be, there is some wo-
manly instinct in her nature which leads
her to turn away from the rude and coarse
nature and give herself to that which has
most appreciation and consideration for
womanhood—to one whom, if she does not
love, she still cannot help but respect and
esteem.
	ANNE E. M'DOWELL.
—"Woman's Words."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	MOUNT PLEASANT May 28, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is in a prosperous
condition.  We hold our meetings semi-
monthly, one a business meeting the oth-
er a testimony meeting, and a good spirit
generally prevails among the sisters. We
have quite a number of poor in this place
solely dependent upon the Relief Society
for support, but we are happy to say that
through the liberality of the people we have
been able to meet every demand. Bishop
Seely has kindly told us to do all the good
that lays in our power, and when we lack
means come to him and he will help us and
in one or two cases he has already done so.
The sisters of this place are very anxious to 
carry out the instructions of President
Young in regard to storing grain. We have
somewhere about one hundred and fifty
bushels of wheat laid up and will still con-
tinue to do what we can to add more. We
feel grateful to our heavenly Father for the
knowledge given us through inspiration,
that we may be enabled through obedience
to the counsel of His servants, to escape
many of the calamities which are likely to 
come upon those who know not God and
will not obey His commandments.
	We are happy to state that the people
here have been liberal according to their
means in donating towards building the
Temple at St. George. But now that it is
finished, we are doubly blessed and privi-
leged to do all that lays in our power to-
wards the erection of one in our own county.
And when completed, where we can wor-
ship God and attend to ordinances both for
the living and the dead. Several of our
sisters, last year, took a lively interest in
the raising of silk. and their efforts proved
quite a success. We met together and
made quilts and sold, the proceeds of which
we used in purchasing the frames for a
cocoonery, which we hope at no distant day
to be able to finish Many of the people
here are showing their faith by their works
in planting out mulberry trees, and doing

[Column 2]

all in their power to carry out the counsel
of our beloved President, Sister Eliza R.
Snow.
	Our Young Men's Mutual Improvement
Association was well attended through the
winter,as also our Literary Association, and
the young of both sexes seemed to vie with
each other in doing what they could to
make their meetings both edifying and in-
teresting.
Last year our young ladies made a beauti-
ful quilt and sent it as a donation for the
St. George Temple. At present they are
engaged in the same business making one
as a commencement of their donations to-
wards the erection of the Temple at Manti.
	May the Lord bless all the Saints with
His holy spirit that they may gain wisdom,
knowledge and understanding, and an in-
crease of faith and good works.
	Our Annual Report is as follows:
	Means for the poor...............$ 126 31
	Expenditures........................	137 00
	Manti Temple.......................	41 90
	Emigration Fund..................	5 00
	Stocks on hand in Co-op store, Co-op
Tannery, Flour, etc., $53 30.
	I feel assured that you will be pleased to
see that we have done this well during the
past year.
	Our desires are to press forward and to do
the best we can, and assist in the great
work which lays before us.
	Praying God to bless you in your labors
of love and all who are interested in the
cause of Zion.
	M. F. C. MORRISON. Pres't:
	R. LOUISE HASLAR, Sec'y.

	LEWISTON, May 30, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society was organized Janu-
ary 6th, 1876. Mrs. Margaret E. Rawlins,
President; Mrs. Lucinda Cunningham and
Mrs. Martha Lewis, Counselors; Mrs. Susan
Terry, Secretary; Mrs. Caroline Allen Treas-
urer. The first year our meetings were
few, but since this new year begun we
have commenced anew. We now hold
monthly meetings which are well attended.
Our settlement is widely scattered, it is
about nine miles in length, and lays be-
tween two rivers, five miles apart; the
houses are scattering a quarter of a mile
and from that to a mile from each other.
It is difficult for the sisters to attend meet-
ing regularly, but their desires are to do
right. We have begun to lay up grain and
have about thirty bushels on hand. If we
are blessed with good crops this season we
will add considerable to it as soon as the
harvest comes in. The grasshoppers are
very numerous here; they have taken con-
siderable grain already. But we hope
through the blessing of God to be able to
raise a sufficiency to live on, and some to
store for the future. We are fighting the
grasshoppers with a will, and trying to save
all the grain we possibly can. We must
leave the result with the Lord for without
His aid we can not accomplish anything.
	Praying for the success of your valuable
paper, and for all the Relief Societies, I am
	Yours Truly,
		SARAH TERRY, Secretary.

	ROUND VALLEY May 14th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Round Valley Relief Society was or-

[Column 3]

ganized with fifteen members on the 15th
of March, 1877, by Bishop Willard G.
Smith of Morgan. We were formerly con-
nected with the South Morgan Relief So-
ciety, but our worthy bishop thought it
wisdom to organize us separately, as we are
so far away from that branch and it was not
convenient to attend the meetings. We
hold semi-monthly meetings which are well
attended, and all seem to take a lively in-
terest in them. The names of the officers,
are as follows: Mrs. Martha Tonks, Presi-
dent; Mrs. Ellen Gibby, and Fanny Olpin,
Counselors; Mrs. Martha J. Tonks, Secre-
tary; Mrs. Mary E. Geary, Treasurer.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel,
			M. J. Tonks, Secretary.

	PAROWAN, May 21st, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place, being
desirous to have a name and interest in
your valuable paper, requests us to offer a
few items for publication. Our Society was
reorganized in 1872, Mrs. Emma S. Smith,
President, Mrs. Lovinna Dame and Mrs.
Mary A. Wimmer, Counselors. We have
eight teachers, an appraising committee,
a treasurer, secretary and assistant sec-
retary. We are trying to do good
in assisting the poor and in every
other way we can. We have donat-
ed a small amount to the Temple in St.
George, and we have made rag carpets for
the room belonging to the Society and for
the meeting house. As a community we
do not advance very fast in any respect;
but we try to keep the Kingdom of God in
view; however, we have one advantage
over some other places, and that is in the
matter of fashion; we do not spend much
time making flounces and furbelows, but if
our dresses fit well and look neat that is
sufficient; but no doubt we do not come up
to the mark in many other respects.
	This season is very backward; early in 
the spring everything was auspicious of
there being plenty of fruit, but the frost
has now blighted our hopes in that direc-
tion.
	That we may remain faithful in the cause
we have espoused is the desire of
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		EMMA S. DECKER, Secretary
		ADELAIDE M. FISH, Ass't Sec'y.


ABOUT THE LITERATI.

	A volume of translations rarely makes an
epoch in the literary world. Yet some
translations have had much influence as
well as much notice In America. Mr.
Longfellow was early known in this field,
but, quite as early perhaps, the precious
volume collected by Mr. John S. Dwight,
containing the happiest rendering of the
minor poems of Goethe and Sciller, intro-
duced the Germanic muse of the Puritan
world of thought. Some of the transla-
tions in Mr. Dwight's volume were from
the pen of J. F. C. (Rev. James Freeman
Clarke). The other names in his list of
translators attest the love of the time for
German literature, and bring to our remem-
brance the first scholars of the day.


"I'm afraid you'll be late at the party,"
said an old lady to her stylish granddaugh-
ter, who replied, "O you dear grandma,
don't you know that in our fahionable set
nobody ever goes to a party till everybody
gets there?"


24		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having a few moments for reflection on
the plan of salvation to the human family,
I cannot but acknowledge the goodness of
our Father in heaven, for reserving my spir-
it until the last dispensation that I might
be permitted to be numbered with the
saints of God, and to share with them the
great and glorious blessings which are with-
in our reach, if we will walk humbly before
the Lord, and do what He has required at
our hands. He has promised if we will do
His will, we shall have a knowledge for
ourselves. This, thousands of the Latter-
day Saints can bear testimony to. When I
first came into this church I thought it
strange that the people of the world could
not understand that it was the work of God.
Now I can see the reason is because they
did not bow in obedience to the Gospel,
which is the only way we can gain that as-
surance for ourselves. I think now, this is
why so many fight against one of the most
noble and elevating principles, called Celes-
tial Marriage. I am sure if the world could
understand it in its purity, as the Lord has
revealed it, they would cease to fight
against it. It is too late to doubt whether
it is true; we not only have the testimony
of the ancients that plural marriage was ap-
proved and acknowledged by our Father in
heaven, but we have a living testimony
within ourselves to-day that has been
"bought with a price," and all the world
cannot deceive us, nor Satan either, so long
as we retain the spirit of God, that is as a
lamp to our feet. I have watched it for
many years, and to-day it is dearer to me
than when I first entered into that holy an-
cient order of the Gospel. All the world
might try to convince me I am misled, but
I should know for myself that the princi-
ple is right and approved of by God. When
a man or woman is guided by the spirit of
God, they can understand for themselves
that this principle is true. My own expe-
rience has taught me more than all the
world beside could do, and who can take it
from me? If I do my Father's will who is
in heaven, no one can. Where is the man
or woman that can make us unhappy if we
do right. We are beyond their reach.
When we suffer ourselves to feel unhappy,
we are yielding to evil influences, and we
forget ourselves. The sooner we retrace our
steps the better it is for us; the adversary
is always ready at any time to take advan-
tage of our weaknesses, but he cannot en-
ter our hearts or homes if we are always on
our guard. The Lord will never forsake us
if we do not grieve His holy spirit. When
we are tempted let us go to our Heavenly
Father and tell Him our troubles, He is the
best comforter. He will never take advan-
tage of our weaknesses, but will  help and
comfort us. Never trust too much to the
arm of flesh for it is mortal.
	I am proud to bear the name of a Latter-
day Saint. It matters not what the world
may think of me, I know in whom I have
believed, and I am not afraid to say to-day
that the more the world try to persecute
and slander us, that much faster the king-
dom of God will grow. I know this, judg-
ing the present by the past. I have watch-
ed it for thirty-six years and never seen it
fall. While enemies are heaping up false-
hoods against the authorities of this Church,
the men whom God has appointed to lead
this people, they are bringing the withering
powers of the Almighty upon their own
heads. The Lord has said "Hurt not the
Lord's anointed, and do my holy ones no

[Column 2]
harm." How thankful we as Latter-day
Saints ought to be to know that we are
worthy to be called the children of God. Let
us be up and doing, regardless of the ene-
mies of truth; they have got their work to
do and so have we.
	Let us, one and all, my sisters, do all in
our power to carry out the counsel and in-
structions of our beloved President Brig-
ham Young, and our enemies will have but
very little power over us, only to spread
the truth to the nations of the earth. The
kingdom of God is established on the earth
and in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints,
and no power beneath the heavens can stay
its progress. Sisters there is nothing for us
to fear, come life or come death; if we live
day by day in the line of our duty to the
end of onr race, eternal life is sure for us in
the kingdom of God.
					SARAH LAYTON.
	Kaysville, June 8th, 1877.


A young girl "who knows" says that "be-
tween times in the farm work and of eve-
nings the boys went hunting, fishing, coast-
ing, swimming, skating, etc.; the girls
helped mother make, mend, and keep clean
the boys' clothes, and braided palm-leaf
hats. It is not the equally hard study that
causes the girl's health to give way: but 
the extra hard chance she has to get at the
study, and the extra hard work that ac-
companies the study. Boys work equally 
hard at their studies, but do not spend their
evenings and an hour before and after each
meal helping an overhurdened father.
Therein lies the difference."—Ex.


[Column 1]
		COL. J. REESE
Is Sole Agent f[-] Utah, for the Almond Pow-
				der Toilet Soap.
	Finely powdered and put up in glass bottles, with per-
forat[-]d tops. As a [-]oilet article, it is excellent; it clean-
ses and pu[-]ifies [-]he skin.
	For sale, wholesale and retail, corner First South and
Second West Street, Fourteenth Ward.

 PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
					SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
				LADIES' JACKETS,
					STOCKINGS, YARNS,
						SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
							LATEST STYLES OF
								FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter, Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vine-
gar, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue.
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of JAMAICA GINGER
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore
	Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands, Sole
		Leather and other Trunks, G[--]ts' Fine
			Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
				Table Salt, Band Boxes and
						Dixie Cotton.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Vol. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1877.		NO. 4.


REVERIES OF SUMMER.

Oh bright and glowing summer, thy beauty and thy
	bloom
Bring memories of by-gone days, all laden with perfume
Of things most choice and sweet—and fragrant wild-wood
	flowers,
Which erst I fondly gathered in thy delightful hours.
The forest paths I wander'd in, beside the rippling
	stream,
Methinks I tread again in youth's midsummer dream;
And all around me voices are whisp'ring in the trees,
And thrill me with the chorus they waft upon the
	breeze:
And the dear familiar scenes of happy "long ago"
Drift back again and mingle with fancy's dreamy show,
And the shadows of the days that now are mine no
	more
Fall thickly all around me and my heart is gushing o'er
With olden time remembrances of those bright summer
	hours
When pleasure held her riot 'mid nature's sunny bow'rs.
And musing on the past and pondering o'er and o'er
I catch a fleeting glimpse of the lov'd ones gone before;
They grace my summer reveries with sweetness most
	complete
As indistinct they linger where we were wont to meet.
The magic of their voices can never be forgot,
For still their echoes vibrate round the familiar spot.
The golden wealth of nature that comes with summer
	days
Is like life's brilliant summer that falls 'mid pleasant
	ways,
As summer's sun doth ripen the fruit and golden grain
And spread its treasures richly o'er garden, valley, plain,
So should our life's full summer at its meridian height,
Ripen a golden harvest, which may the soul delight—
Filling her garners richly with most abundant store
Of knowledge, love and wisdom and good deeds teeming
	o'er.
	EMILE.
S. L. City, July 13, 1877.	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
		A FEW REFLECTIONS.

			[CONTINUED.]

	Now gentlemen and ladies we will tell
you of the root of this polygamic or patri-
archal tree. In Isaiah xi chapt. 10th verse,
"And in that day there shall be a root of
Jesse, which shall stand as an ensign for the
people; to it shall the Gentiles seek; and
his rest shall be glorious." And in Ro-
man's xv chapt. 12th verse the Apostle con-
firms what Esaias had said; and in Revela-
tions v chapt. 5th verse, "And one of the
elders said unto me weep not, behold the
Lion of the tribe of Juda, the root of Da-
vid hath prevailed to open the book, and to
loose the seven seals thereof." I am Alpha
and Omega the beginning and the end, the
first and the last. And again in the 16th
verse, he says "I am the root and the off-
spring of David, the bright and morning
star." It would be well for those who are
so anxious to destroy this remarkable tree,
which has survived so many ages and
sprung up again afresh when all vestige of
it seemed obliterated, to notice the revela-
tions of God to St. John in the 18th and
19th verses of the last chapter as follows,
"If any man shall add unto these things
God shall add unto him the plagues that
are written in this book; and if any man
shall take away from the words of the book
of this prophecy, God shall take away his
part out of the book of life, and out of the
holy city etc.
	"Now if Christ is the root of David, then
David in the beginning was the offspring
of God, and in the second place Jesus was

[Column 2]
the offspring of David, which makes their
relationship very complicated; and if he is
the root of David he must of necessity be
the root of all the polygamic patriarchs
from Adam down to David, which is a pos-
itive demonstration that Jesus Christ is the
root of this polygamical, patriarchal tree.
This being the case I see no consistent
course left for you to pursue, who have set
yourselves to destroy it, except to suspend
all further proceedings until Jesus our Re-
deemer makes His second appearance. He
has declared through the mouths of all His
holy prophets, and also by His own mouth,
when upon the earth, that in the last days
He would come in power and great glory,
with all His heavenly hosts to reign on
earth a thousand years. And permit me
to tell you gentlemen and ladies that when
that day comes, you will behold this glor-
ious, this remarkable, this everlasting po-
lygamic tree in its full and complete perfec-
tion, root and branches united. Then will
be the fitting time for you to try to arrest
its growth and utterly destroy it.
	Let me warn you and advise you to look
well to your ways, for the Lord has said His
saints should overcome, and that He would
put all their enemies under His feet.
	And now having given you a brief sketch
of this patriarchal tree, which is so offen-
sive and obnoxious to you who have such
refined tastes that you prefer something ten-
der and fragile, something unable to sup-
port its own weight, to this strong and
grand old tree, that has withstood the ra-
ging storms of centuries upon centuries and
could not be obliterated; let me deliver
unto you my testimony, and declare unto
you that I know of a truth that this princi-
ple of patriarchal marriage emanated from
heaven; and that we as a people practice it
because it is a command direct from God
through Joseph Smith the prophet, who
died a martyr to the truth, as did many of
the former prophets. And we do firmly
believe and know by the spirit bearing wit-
ness that to disobey this command we must
incur the displeasure of an offended God,
and cut ourselves short of an eternal salva-
tion in the celestial kingdom of God.
	As American citizens entitled to all the
privileges of citizenship we claim the right
to worship God according to the dictates of
our own consciences, and according to the
laws of the Constitution.
	If those holding the reins of govern-
ment will turn a deaf ear to our petitions
and dare defraud us of the rights to which
we are entitled under the framing of the
constitution, then it only remains for us to
take an appeal to the high courts of heaven
where God is the Judge of all. In Him
we implicitly trust, knowing that eventu-
ally His cause will triumph.
				NANCY ARETE CLARK.
	Farmington, Davis Co., Utah,
						Jan. 21st. 1877.


"Mamma," said an inquiring urchin,
"the first man was Adam, wasn't it?" "Yes,
my dear." "Well, then, I see how we get
the word madam; for if the first man was
Adam, of course the first woman was Mad-
am."


NOTES AND NEWS.

	ROCHESTER, N. Y., June 20, five young
ladies were graduated at the Wells College,
Aurora, Commencement.
	THE FRENCH journals report that Patti is
to sing in America this winter at $2,000,
gold, per night, and that Nicolini, who, of
course, goes with her, will have $1,000
nightly.
	Mrs. Z. R. Plumb has published a book
account of the six years in New York which
she devoted to teaching light gymnastics.
It is autobiographic, historic, unique and
interesting. Mrs. Plumb is now at Holley,
New York, still engaged in her favorite
work.
	MISS HELEN Mar, of Boston, has invent-
ed a Commode Dressing Case—an ingenious
arrangement to economize space in small
rooms. In this contrivance such appurten-
ances as a bureau, wash-stand, etc., with all
conveniences, are brought together in one
piece of furniture. This invention having
been patented, is now in the market, and
reflects great credit upon the inventor.—
Ex.
	ONE OF THE TWELVE.—Five years ago,
twelve women, in Rochester, New York,
called public attention to the disfranchised
condition of women by an attempt to assert
their own right to vote. One of these,
Mrs. Hannah Mosher, who was a sister of
Susan B. Anthony, has lately died after
much suffering in Leavenworth, Kansas.
Mrs. Mosher was an earnest, resolute wo-
man, who had the courage to maintain her
opinions.—Ex.
	IN LONDON, June 18, the case of Charles
Bradlaugh and Mrs. Annie Besant, the free-
thought advocate, who were arrested some
time since on a charge of printing and pub-
lishing a pamphlet alleged to be of an im-
moral character, which was adjourned to
allow the defendants time to prepare their
defense, was begun before Lord Chief-Jus-
tice Cockburn and a special jury. The so-
licitor General spoke, condemning the book
as indecent. Mrs. Besant replied, defend-
ing the book and denying that it was ob-
scene. The trial was unfinished at the ad-
journment of the court. Since the begin-
ning of the prosecution the circulation of
the book has increased from 700 copies
yearly to 100,000 copies.
	TIDAL WAVE AND EARTHQUAKE.—
Elder Richard G. Lambert writes from the
Sandwich Islands, June 13—
	"We had quite a tidal disturbance here
on the 10th of last month, resulting in the
destruction of much property and loss of
life. The sea receded and came up again
about every ten minutes, going out past
low water mark and coming up past high
water mark. In some places the tidal wave
went up over the land, sweeping all before
it. Part of the town of Halo was swept
away, or rather carried inland, and quite a
number were drowned. On the 31 of May
there was quite a severe shock of earth-
quake on the Island of Hawaii. It was
sufficiently powerful to throw down all the
stone walls and houses.—Ex."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, July 7th, was one of unusual in-
terest. Counselor B. W. Smith presided
in the president's absence, and after the
usual exercises and reading of minutes
from junior societies, addressed the assem-
bly in an able and efficient manner upon
the duties of saints and the future destiny
of the young. Counselor Z. D. Young and
S. M. Kimball followed her and spoke upon
silk-culture and home institutions, the op-
portunities for education and for self-educa-
tion; referred to the Medical Class now
about to resume their meetings for instruc-
tion, and many other important items.
Mrs. E. Pixton from Leeds, spoke of her
having been absent one year from the meet-
ings, of the privileges and blessings en-
joyed by the sisters here, of diamonds in
the rough and diamonds polished etc.
Mrs. E. S. Barney, Mrs. R. Jones, Mrs. M.
E. A. Watmough, Mrs. Hannah T. King,
Mrs. W. East each addressed the meeting
in a pleasant and happy manner upon the
subjects which concern the temporal and
spiritual welfare of the saints. These meet-
ings strengthen encourage and edify the
sisters in the spirit of the Gospel, and a
very great improvement is apparent in
those who are stepping out in the develop-
ment of the talents in their possession.
The home industries are increasing and im-
proving and there is a spirit manifested
by the sisters who attend these meetings to
promote all home industries.

	ROCKPORT, SUMMIT Co, June 27, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our yearly meeting June 3, com-
mencing with the usual exercises of sing-
ing and prayer, after which our report was
read showing our progress to be as good as
could be expected, as we are but few. We
have now on hand in grain, cash and sun-
dries, property amounting to sixty dollars.
We have made a start in the Grain Move-
ment, and intend by the blessing of our
Heavenly Father to still keep adding to it,
if the frost does not take our grain. We
feel and know that the counsel of our be-
loved President Brigham Young is good.
We received a visit last fall from Mrs. E.
Howard and E. S. Barney, held a meeting
and received much valuable instruction,
enjoying the spirit of the Lord while as-
sembled together, and were very much
pleased to have them meet with us. We
hold our meetings monthly, and express
our feelings and the gratitude of our hearts
for the many blessings we as a people re-
ceive from time to time. We also have
sewing meetings alternately.
	May the Lord bless all the Relief Socie-
ties, and prosper you in your labors upon
the valuable paper which we consider a
blessing to the saints, is the wish of us all.
				ANN BRYANT, President.
			SARAH STAKER, Secretary.

		TOKERVILLE, June 24th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT;
	We esteem it a great privilege to con-
tribute to your valuable paper, which in
perusing we find contains very encourag-
ing accounts of the different Relief Socie-
ties, and feel honored to have the opportu-
nity to represent our society through your
columns. We have donated forty-one yards

[Column 2]
of carpet and some articles of men's wear
to the St. George Temple, and have carpets,
quilts and a variety of other things in the
treasury. We desire to carry out the coun.
sel of our beloved President Brigham
Young in regard to storing grain, and have
purchased a small amount for a commence-
ment, and live in hopes of doing more as
opportunity affords, although we labor un-
der great disadvantages in not raising grain
in this vicinity. We have not commenced
silk raising yet, but intend doing so at an
early day. The members of our Society
are energetic and alive to their duties.
	We have a Young Ladies' Retrenchment
Association organized, with Mrs. Mary L.
Ransom, president; Misses Elizabeth Klien-
man, Sabra Higbee, Elvira Hill, Mary R.
Dodge, Mrs. Sarah A. Spilsbury, and Lydia
Jackson, Counselors; Misses Mary E. Klein-
man, and Permelia Dodge Secretaries; Miss
Jane Stapley, Treasurer; they have thirty-
one names enrolled as members and they
manifest a willing spirit to do their duty in
the interest of the society.
	Every praying for the success of your val-
uable paper, we remain
		Yours Respectfully,
			S. A. SPILSBURY, Secretary;
			R. J. SPILLSBURY, Assistant.

	ESCALANTE, IRON Co., June 20, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I will proceed to tell you about this beau-
tiful little valley; it is situated fifty miles
east of Panguitch, and has a mild climate;
we have no mail running here yet, but re-
ceive our mail matter from persons travel-
ing to and from Panguitch. Some of the
wheat has been headed out here for two
weeks; wild flowers of every color and var-
iety grow in abundance, giving the valley a
very beautiful appearance. There are about
fifty families in the settlement. On March
13th, 1877, our Bishop, Andrew Schow.
and several of the brethren organized a
Relief Society and a Retrenchment Asso-
ciation; officers of Relief Society as follows:
Mrs. Mary Ann P. Schow, President; Mrs.
Susannah Heaps, Mrs. Lydia C. Adams,
Counselors; Mrs. Jane S. Coleman and Miss
Mary Coleman, Secretaries; Mrs. Vesta Lu-
cretia Twitchell, Treasurer. We have teach-
ers and president of teachers appointed;
they visit the sisters once a month. We
hold semi-monthly meetings alternately to
speak and work. Our president is an ener-
getic woman and means to take hold and
go into the silk-industry, and have mul-
berry trees set out in the Relief Society
lot. We desire to be co-workers with the
rest of our sisters in assisting to build up
and develop Zion. Money is scarce here,
it is fifty miles to the nearest market.
	The Report of the Escalente Retrench-
ment Association organized March 13, 1877,
is as follows: Mrs. Catherine Dewel, Presi-
dent; Misses Sarah May Coleman, Lydia C.
Adams, Mrs. Mary E. Alvey, Misses Mary
Alice Barker, and Mary Coleman, Counsel-
ors; Mrs. Mary Ann P. Schow, Superin-
tendent; Misses Mary Alice Barker and
Harriet Larrmie, Secretaries; Mrs. Eleanor
Barker, Treasurer.
	JANE S. COLEMAN, Secretary of
					Relief Society.

	PARIS, BEAR LAKE Co., June 29, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Report of the ninth annual meeting of
the Relief Society of this place, held May
26th, 1877.

[Column 3]
	An invitation was extended to the pres-
idents and officers of the Relief Societies
and Retrenchment Associations of St.
Charles and Bloomington; also the members
of the Paris Retrenchment Association.
We were favored with the company of
President C. C. Rich, Bishops Budge, Horne
and several other brethren. Appropriate
speeches were delivered by the President
of the Paris Relief Society, Mrs. Julia
Lindsay, and her Counselors, Mrs. Elizabeth
Collings and Maria Rich, also by President
C. C. Rich, Bishops Budge, Horne and oth-
ers. A report of the condition of the so-
ciety for the past five years was reach which
spoke well for the liberality of the mem-
bers; all were well satisfied with the pro-
gress which had been made. Many inter-
esting remarks were made on very import-
ant subjects.
	The members of the Paris Retrenchment
Association presented President Julia Lind-
sey with a beautiful picture, as a token of
their affection and regard for her. She re
sponded in a pleasant little speech, asking
God to bless us all, and enable her to live
in such a manner as to retain the good will
of the sisters.
	As a society we move slowly along, alle-
viating the wants of the poor, and giving
words of comfort to those whose hearts are
weighed down with woe and sorrow, en-
couraging them to look up to the Giver of
life, for His loving hand is over us contin-
ually, even in chastening us. and if we im-
part comfort to others God will impart a
portion of it to our own hearts.
	The day's proceedings were followed by
a ball in the evening, the hall being beau-
tifully decorated for the occasion. All
passed off pleasantly, joy and gladness
beamed from every countenance.
	The health of the people in this settle-
ment is good. As yet the crops look well,
but grasshoppers are very numerous. En-
ergetic measures are being, adopted to de-
stroy them and thus save the crops. I
would further state that under the superin-
tendence of our worthy Bishop William
Budge, in the mercantile, and other depart-
ments of co-operation, we continue to grow
in wealth and strength. The EXPONENT
is read, with interest in our meetings.
	Wishing the paper success, and all institu-
tions of improvement, I remain,
		Yours Respectfully,
				ALICE M. RICH,
						Secretary.


FORMATION OF MINERALS.--Hawley has
made further examination of the liquids
contained in mineral cavities. He finds
that the liquid carbon dioxide present varies
considerably—from 27 27° to 33.7° C.—in
its critical point in different mineral speci-
mens, often varying in different cavities in
the same mineral specimen. The presence
of this substance in sapphire and topaz
leads him to the supposition that these
minerals may have been formed by the ac-
tion of aluminum fluoride or chloride upon
calcium carbonate at high pressures, produ-
cing alumina and carbon dioxide. Where
water is also present in the cavity, it would
seem that the reaction had taken place in
presence of moisture. As to the diamond,
the author thinks that this mineral is the
result of the action of reducing agents up-
on very highly compressed carbon dioxide
at temperatures above its critical point—a
condition of things which suggests a new
direction for speculation and experiment.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


JOY.

Oh joyful visitation
	Come Jesus' voice obey, 
To gain His approbation
   We'll work and watch and pray. 

The faithful saints are rearing
   Their Temple to the Lord, 
The quick and dead 'tis cheering
   Through truth to earth restored. 

In every nation laud it;
	The Savior soon will come,
And then the welcome plaudit
   Will be to saints "well done,"

Christ comes, the Lord's Annointed
	To comfort those who weep,
Fore-ordained and appointed;
	A Shepherd for the sheep. 

Then glory! Hallelujah!
	To Jesus we will sing;
He comes to reign in glory, 
   The Saints Eternal King. 

			ELLEN WALLACE. 
S.L. City, March 7, 1877.


THE DRAM-DRINKER'S BRIDE.

Lay the sod over me, cover me deep;
In silence leave me to the long, last sleep.
I am so weary with curses and blows,
That I long for rest where the soft grass grows.

This heart so filled with anguish and gloom, 
Can find no repose but the silent tomb;
The clods of the earth are easier borne
Than scathing reproach, cold, hunger and scorn. 

That bright summer morn, when with girlish pride,
I trusting became a dram-drinker’s bride,
Little I dreamed that a sparkling cup
Could drown warmest love, or swallow it up.

Dear Savior receive and hold to thy breast,
This trembling soul so weary, oppressed;
In that blessed land where sin cannot come, 
There may I find peace, love, friends and home, 


No marble will tell, how suffered and died,
Of want and neglect-the dram-drinkers bride,
But each sigh, each tear each prayer and each groan
Is heard in heaven and will yet be known.

								CORA	S.
Shambip, May 7, 1877.


THE ELECTIVE FRANCHISE IN
			UTAH.
SUGGESTED BY MRS. LIVERMORE’S RE-
	MARKS AT THE NEW YORK CONVEN-
	TION.

 I don’t doubt Mrs. Livermore is an ex-
cellent woman, but she does not understand
the women of Utah. She says that in Utah
women vote.  To be sure we do; every sen-
sible and just man knows that taxation
without representation is tyranny and op-
pression. Don't women have to pay taxes
if they have any property? Ask the tax
collector, you know what his answer would
be. Mrs. Livermore says we are ticketed.
This is indeed news. She says both men and
women receive a number. Do we?
Mrs. Livermore seems to know more about
those tickets than we do. I have never
seen one of them, although I have voted
ever since the women were given the right
of Franchise in this Territory. Where
shall I look fot those tickets, on the backs,
on the hats or where? And echo answers
where! When I have voted it has been be
-cause it was my honest conviction it was
for the best man. Although we are only
women we will not be driven like a flock of
sheep at the will of the driver. When
next I vote I shall be looking for my num-
ber. Every man in the states votes ac-
cording to his honest convictions, don't he?
Especially the working men and the de-
pendents on another man's smiles or
frowns? They are not ticketed, Oh, no!


They are all free !! Yes free to go without
their daily bread if they don't vote as their
employers wish. In Utah gentlemen (?)
don't go about buying up the votes of the
lowest rabble, and the half-idiotic inebre-
ate, the pay "free drinks" Is this the
style in Utah? No it is not. Men or wo-
men vote just as they please. Any decent
person passing the places where the polls
are held in the states are shocked and dis-
gusted with the sights and sounds,and will
hurry away as fast as possible.
	Mrs. Livermore says, "the women don't
want to change." What can she mean? Is
it our husbands? If so, we beg to inform
her we are not "Free Lovers," but believe
most emphatically in chastity. She asserts
we women "do just as the men want us to."
Does she mean to imply we are not capable
of doing our own thinking? She also says
we obey our religious convictions" as
though she pitied us. Is it not right that
we should? Is it any sign of imbecility?
The Roman Catholic nun follows her re-
ligious convictions when she takes the vail,
yet she is not considered an idiot. I have
lived in Utah eighteen years and never
known any woman to die of a broken
heart. I will tell you what I have seen;
noble, brave, strong-hearted women in po-
lygamy living the lives of saints in deed,
and dying the death of the righteous, leav-
ing the world better for having lived in it.
	Well although so much has been written
and said about the Women of Utah, we are
still a "sealed book" to the world.
	MARY.
Grantsville, July 2, 1876.


[Column 1]

PRECIOUS AND PRICELESS IS
TRUTH.

	How beautiful is truth! In this world
where there is so much falsehood and deceit,
how beautiful is the true thought, word and
deed; like the sun smiling out amid an
angry storm, or the bright stars shining
through the heavy clouds; like friend clasp-
ing the hand of friend, like heaven upon
the earth. Yet truth in this day and age
of the world is rather unpopular: the hu-
man mind is prone to seek popularity; hence
to live pure lives we must choose a higher
standard and maintain truth and indepen-
dence of character, and learn and compre-
hend the truth for ourselves and not be
afraid to speak in its defence. Be true to
each other. One great fault with our nation-
al affairs is that on every side difficulties
arise and one party cries out against the
dishonest proceedings of the other; yet
both know they are equally in the fault.
These things prove to those whose eyes are
open to the "signs of the times," indica-
tions of political revolution. On every
hand we meet deception, honesty appar-
ently is at discount; to listen to what is
termed business men, one would draw the
conclusion that money had become the ru-
ling power, the determined value of every
thing on earth.
	We should be advocates for truth and in-
telligence. Be honest, not because "honesty
is the best policy," but because it is a duty
we owe to God and man. The heart that
can be gratified by dishonest gain, the am-
bition that can be satisfied by dishonest
means, the mind that can be devoted to
dishonest purposes, must be of the worst
order. But every word has its weight.
"Truth crushed to the earth will rise again"
though often discouraged.
	Unity is the greatest principle of govern-
ment; would it not promote the peace and
welfare of all to carry out every principle

[Column 2]

of right, and discourage that which is
wrong? There would be but little com-
plaining, and the people would have entire
confidence in each other. Ther would be
no need of locking doors and making every
thing secure from theft, for there would be
no thieving, no one to wrong his neighbor.
True greatnes is always humble and gen-
tle, for it knows its power and realizes its
dignity. In good government there must
be decision of character; the world is waht
we make it; do we fully realize this all im-
portant fact? Have we ever paused long
enough to think seriously about it? We
sometimes murmur at fate, because we are
not as talented or as wealthy as some one
else; forgetting that God in His infinite
mercy has created us as we are for some
wise purpose. Wealth is transitory and lia-
ble to take wings and fly away; a beautiful
face is also transitory. There is a higher,
nobler beauty that emanates from a meek
spirit that will alst as long as life itself,
only becoming more refined in purity as
we grow older.
	Our success in life depends to a great ex-
tent on the talents we possess, but surely
we should not blame Dame Nature or ac-
cuse her of partiality, in not endowing us
with higher talents, while those we already
possess lie dormant, growing rusty from
neglect. Those who would attain to real
greatness, should keep themselves true to
their consciences and their Creator. Shun
the society of the impure, remember that
even the best characters can be injured by
associating with those who are corrupt.
There is nothing which binds heart to
heart so closely as truth.	Truth is eternal.
	M. J. C.
East Bountiful, June, 1877.


SCIENTIFIC NOTES.

	HOW FISH BREATHE.—The breathing of
fishes takes place by means of their gills.
The water which is impregnated with at-
mospheric air, is taken in by the mouth and
forced out again by the apertures on each
side of the neck. It is thus made to pass
between the gills, which form a comb like
set of vascular fringes, supported by a sys-
tem of bones termed bronchial arches, and
during this passage the air is absorbed by
the blood of the fish. Fish have little blood,
and therefore require little oxygen, the ox-
idized blood being chiefly confined to a few
internal organs, as the heart, liver, kidneys,
lungs and gills. For this reason the flesh
of most fish is white and apparently blood-
less.
	PHOTO-TRANSPARENCIES ON GLASS.—The
toning of photo-transparencies on glass is
now asserted to be scarcely necessary, if the
transparency has been reinforced with acid
silver, and is only required to be viewed by
transmitted light. But silver as well as al-
kali intensified films have generally a very
disagreeable color by reflected light, and
many amateurs object to this. The use of
a weak solution of chloride of gold obviates
this difficulty, but, unfortunately, the light
thus given is too cold to suit many tastes.
Artists of high repute, now regard chlo-
ride of copper as the best toning agent, fol-
lowed by an application of alkali pyro—any
tone by transmitted light being attainable,
while the color of the deposit by reflected
light is either black or a deep warm brown;
but on no account is resort to be had to any
of the formerly recommended methods of
toning by mercury—for colors, though beau-
tiful in appearance, are evanescent, and
sooner or later the picture becomes, in fact,
one shapeless blotch.


28	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	LULA GREENE RICHARDS,
	EMMELINE B. WELL.		Editors.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah. 

SALT LAKE CITY. JULY 15, 1877.


[Column 1]
			WORK FOR WOMEN.

	Work to be done! Yes! Work for Women!
Work that requires energy, activity, resolution
and courage. Work that will not admit of de-
lay. Work in the present. Work in the fu-
ture. Practical work that will necessitate
method in its execution. Work for which wo-
men must be trained, educated and cultivated
physically, mentally, morally and spiritually.
Work that will require united combination
and concentration of thought, influence and
effort. The serious persecutions inflicted upon
this people and which women have borne a
proportionate share of, the rigorous and bitter
experience through which Mormon women
have passed, has fitted them as nothing
else ever could, for the life-work, most
peculiar in its nature that is resting upon them
in assisting to further the plans and designs of
the Almighty in the great labor of the latter
days, which is to bring about the regeneration
of mankind and the final redemption of the
dead.
	There are those who find it hard to endure
the ridicule and censure heaped upon them
by the world, in pursuing the path of self-sac-
rifice and denial, and feel that their heroism
must draw forth sympathy if not admiration;
but would that give the impetus that criticism
and censure calls out? And the question arises
in the mind, would the sympathy of the world
help the Saints in the path they are walking?
Would it help women? We do not believe it
would. Perhaps they would begin to feel that
really their lot was hard, and thereby lower the
standard of excellence, and succumb to the
sympathizing hand held out in seeming char-
ity. This would weaken nobility of purpose
and real heroism of character. Mormon wo-
men do not need sympathy from the world,
and they should not accept it, much less seek
for it.
	If at any time laws are rigorously enforced
against this people, or measures carried that
are offensive to the sense of justice and honor,
or would bring them into bondage, and genuine
help or assistance is given to hinder persecu-
tion, then it is only a duty to be truly grateful
for such real help; or if any person has suffici-
ent courage or honesty of character to lift their
voice or pen to do good to this people, or speak
in their defense, none should be ungrateful in
acknowledging such legitimate acts of kind-
ness. Otherwise it is noble to stand aloof from
any offers of sympathy held out, for they
simply degrade those who accept them. What
is all the honor and adulation of the world good
for, let alone their miserable pity for the "poor
down-trodden women of Utah?" They have
no real power to lift the fallen, if they have
why not reach out the hand of true charity

[Column 2]
nd seek to save those of their own faith, of
their own class (of their own blood perchance]
whom their social laws and Christian pride
and cruelty drive to desperation and plunges
into the depths of misery?
	Depend upon it there is no time to waste in
receiving sympathy were it ever so genuine;
they young Ldies of Utah are far above any
sympathy the world has to give, and there is
work for them to do, a great and glorious work,
and they should be preparing themselves for
it and be so constantly occupied and so
completely absorbed in its contemplation, as to
have no room for such sympathy as the world
would offer them. A sympathy that would
bring them into such bondage as the world are
in, and from which they see no clear avenue to
escape—the bondage of sin and crime. But
through obedience to a higher law revealed to
the saints in this day and age, the social con-
dition of men and women may be improved,
and the Lord desires to accomplish it, other-
wise there could not be a people prepared to
meet Him at His coming.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE MEDICAL Class: A fair attendance,met
as per appointment on Wednesday, July 11,
and were addressed by Mrs. Zina D. Young and
Mrs. C. M. Barlow. It is hoped a larger num-
ber will come forward and interest themselves
in the important study of obstetrics.
	WE HAVE had a pleasant call from Elder
Henry Grow and Elder A. M. Musser, returned
missionaries. These brethren have been trav-
eling in Penn. Elder Grow's relatives were
very hospitable and courteous to himself and
other Elders whom he introduced to them.
They held some very interesting meetings and
were introduced to many influential and wor-
thy people with whom they discussed Mormon-
ism and the political and social interests of
Utah. Some other items of their travels will
be given in our next number.
	PREPARATIONS FOR the coming Jubilee on
the 24th of July. It will no doubt be interest-
ing to the readers of the EXPONENT to have an
idea of a few of the leading items furnished,
which have been kindly supplied by Br. Chas.
F. Williams, Chairman of the Decoration
Committee. There will be 18,000 feet of fes-
toons, each one weighing over 100 lbs, and
measuring 40 feet; the whole, 300 in number,
will weigh 37,000 lbs. One million flowers
(artificial) made under the superintendence of
Mrs. Annie Cross and her lady assistants. The
flowers are held together by 13 1/2 miles of fine
wire. The festoons are arranged with pine
and cedar brush.
	The ladies of the Floral Committee will be
pleased to receive all the assistance available
from the various wards, as there is much to be
done yet, and but little time to do it in.
							W. WILLIS.
	THE DESERET Silk Association met pursu-
ant to adjournment at the Fireman's Hall,
Salt Lake City, July 6th, 1877; Mrs. Zina D.
Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young gave a brief report of her trav-
els in the south. She had talked considerably
on silk raising, and found that a good spirit
prevailed and a lively interest was manifested
in this branch of home industry. Many were
planting out trees and cuttings. She had sent
considerable mulberry seed to different parts
of the Territory. She advised those raising
worms this year to save a little more seed
than they would need themselves, as we had
run short this year, and the prospects were

[Column 2]
that we would require more another year, and
for those who have good healthy trees to save
the mulberry seed. It was a mission placed
upon the sisters at the late Conference at St.
George, and she felt like doing her part, and
advised those present to use their influence in
the same direction.
	Mr. Hulbert said our silk was the best in the
best in the world;he was a silk weaver,and had
woven silk from all parts of the world where
silk was raised. He had sent a sample of our
silk to Patterson, N. J., and received an ans-
wer that the parties would purchase all the
silk we could raise.
	The meeting was further addressed by Mrs.
Barney, and several others, after which a mo-
tion was made and carried that the Association
send a copy of our pamphlet to every Presi-
dent of a Relief Society in the Territory with
a request that they make good use of the same,
this being done for the sole purpose to further
the work along.
	Meeting adjourned until the first Friday in
August, at 3 p. m.
						R. SIMPSON, Sec'y.


OBITUARIES.

	RESUOLUTIONS OF sorrow offered by the Re-
lief Society of Huntsville Weber Co, to the
family of the deceased Mary Jane Hammond,
President of the Huntsville Relief Society and
wife of Bishop F. A. Hammond, who died
June 6th, 1877:
	Whereas, the hand of Divine Providence has
removed our beloved sister and president from
the scenes of her temporal labors, and the So-
ciety who acted under her counsel and profited
by her example are desirous of testifying their
respect for her memory and expressing their
earnest and affectionate sympathy with the
family deprived by this dispensation, of its be-
loved wife and mother,
	Resolved, That it is but a just tribute to the
memory of the departed to say that in regret-
ting her removal from our midst, we mourn
for one who was in every way worthy of our
respect and regard.
	Resolved, That we sincerely condole with
the family of the deceased on the dispensation
with which it has pleased Divine Providence
to afflict them, and commend them for con-
sideration to Him who orders all things for the
best, and whose hand dealings are meant in
mercy.
	Resolved that the heartfelt testimonial of
our sympathy and sorrow be forwarded to the
family of our departed sister by the secretary
of this meeting.
				MARY HALL, Secretary.
	ANN KEMPTON Brown, wife of Dr. J. L.
Dunyon departed this life Friday, June 22nd,
1877, at the Point of Mountain South, near
Draper. Deceased was the daughter of Abia
W. Brown and Abby Cadwallader of
Penn. Born April 13, 1831 in Damascus Col-
ombiana Co. Ohio. Baptized July 17, 1851 in
Council Bluffs or Kanesville, Pottowatamie
Co., Iowa. She and her aged mother gathered
with the saints in these valleys in 1853. De-
ceased was raised a quaker to which principle
she was ardently attached, but in early life be-
coming satisfied of the truth of the Great Lat-
ter-day work, she embraced it with all the in-
tensity of her generous nature with the de-
termination to live the life of a saint, and to
help to build up the cause of the Latter-day
Zion of God upon the earth. Every aspiration
of her soul was to do good; to feed the hungry,
clothe the naked, and to administer to] the
sick and afflicted was her chief delight; she


was a member of the Relief Society to which
she was greatly endeared and will ever live in
their remembrance. Her spirit was as pure as
mortals can possess, and her whole person and
all her everyday life bespoke the exquisite
character of her soul. She could not tolerate
the least semblance of profanity or vulgarity,
or any conduct deviating from the strict sense
of justice, honesty, purity and truth. She
held in highest regard the Celestial law as it
pertains to married life, she was anxious to
fulfill the law of her creation believing that
her Heavenly Father would sustain her upon
the earth until she had fulfilled her duties as
wife and mother. She was the mother of five
living children and of four who died in in-
fancy.
	In May 1875 after a very dangerous and lin-
gering illness of one year, immediately after
her recovery, (though at that time preparing
for a year's sojourn in the south country) she
determined if possible to resurrect the interest
of Silk Culture in Utah, and at once made ap-
plication for the use of President Young's co-
coonery and commenced operations. Her com-
plete snccess upon a large scale, gave a new
impetus to the silk-culture which has spread
through almost every town and hamlet of the
Territory. She has written some very inter-
esting articles upon the subject which have been
published and circulated to promote the man-
uftcture, in this her interest has been so asso-
ciated that her name will remain imperishable
in the history of the seri-culture in Utah.
She raised the worms, spun, reeled and colored
the silk in a variety of textures.
	She was a dear loving wife and companion
and mother in the highest and truest sense
that mortals are permitted to enjoy. Her
sweet voice and influence was a charm for
every disturbance among the children, and a
healing balm to soothe the impulsive spirits
around her, and it was only necessary to be
slightly acquainted with her to love her. Her
truly genial qualities will be remembered by
all her friends and they can but mourn her
loss and sympathize with her bereaved rela-
tives and family. She truly rests in peace,
freed from sickness and sorrow, pain and
death; she is in the society of her parents and
children and the saints that have gone before
to await the morning of the glorious Resurrec-
tion of the just, when she will again mingle
with the saints and help to build up the Holy
City and Temple of our God in which it will
be the happy lot of all the pure in heart to be
associated.
	Though we deeply mourn her loss, we rejoice
that her spirit is liberated from its frail tene-
ment, and we will affectionately cherish her
memory for her good deeds will forever live in
the remembrance of all who have at heart
the welfare of Zion, and especially the sister
who are uniting and combining their ener-
gies and abilities to assist in becoming a self-
ssutaining people.
		Yours Truly,
						J. L. DUNYON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		29


THE FOURTH IN ST. GEORGE.—The Fourth
has passed off very quietly, I am sure there
must have been a rejoicing in heaven to-day
over the freedom given to one hundred and
fifty of our dead. It was not thought advisa-
ble to close the Temple to-day, and all who
spent their Fourth in that Holy House, felt to
rejoice and give glory to God, that they were
permitted to unloose the bands and give free-
dom to some of their frieuds who have passed
behind the vail. One hundred of the brethren
and sisters who went through to-day in behalf


of the dead, volunteered to act for and in be-
half of Elder Wilford Woodruff, and made him
a very agreeable surprise; as he has the gene-
ology of between four and five thousand dead
relatives to attend to, he cannot hope to do
the work without help. 
	The weather is quite warm in the middle of
the day, but we have cool, pleasant nights.
The crops are in a most flourishing condition.
The brethren and sisters are all feeling the
blessing of having a Temple in their midst,
and the interest in the redemption of our dead
continues to increase.	
	Hoping I have not over-taxed your valuable
time,allow me to wish for the continued success
of your able and instructive paper. I do not think
it is right for any sister to be without the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, if she can possibly pay
for it; better to do without the new dress and
make the old one answer. I consider it neces-
sary,as it makes us acquainted with each other’s
feelings, views and desires, and really helps us
to live our religion.
			Your sister,
								ANNIE W.


FARMINGTON, July 7th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place held their
Ninth Annual Meeting, June 12th, 1877, Presi-
dent Mrs. S. J. Holmes presiding. We were
honored with the company of Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. S. M. Kimball, and Mrs. E. S. Barney,
from Salt Lake City; also some of the brethren
met with us. After singing and prayer, the
minutes of last meeting, financial report, and
the amount of wheat taken in since last Fall
(which was over a hundred bushels), were read,
giving general satisfaction.
	Miss E. R. Snow addressed the meeting, said
from hearing the minutes read she could see a
large growth of improvement since her last
visit. Spoke of the duty of both officers and
members in a society; said the teachers occupy
a very responsible position, there was none
more important. Encouraged home manufac-
ture; spoke of the silk that had already been
made in Farmington—the silk of which the
bonnet she had on was made, and wove here.
Advised the setting out of more mulberry
trees, that the business might be carried on
more extensively. Made many other good re-
marks. Blessed the sisters for their efforts
and in their good works.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball spoke of the interest of
Sister Snow in trying to diffuse the spirit of
home industry among the people; said it was
necessary the sisters be united in their efforts,
but yet the women cannot accomplish much
unless they have the hand of encouragement
reached out to them by the brethren.
	Mrs. E S Barney said she had listened with
interest. Made some very good remarks, call-
ing the attention of the meeting to some
Church books; said some of the wards had a
ibrary, and thought it a good plan for every
society to buy the church books, so they could
be distributed among the people; for what
could be better for our soul's salvation than
leading good books. Said some might object
to buying them as the means might be needed
to build graanries and for other purposes; she
thought reading the books would help to build
them, for the people would get more of the
spirit of their religion, aud then when there is
a will there is always a way.
	The brethren also spoke a few minutes each:
said they had been edified in hearing the sis-
ters, for they were dictated by the Spirit of
God. Said this meeting had been a profitable
one, and asked God to bless those who had
ome to visit us.


President Holmes spoke a few words in con-
clusion. Said we would take a vote whether
we keep the books or not. It was decided to
buy them.
	Meeting was then adjourned, closing with
singing and prayer as usual.
	There has been constderable sickness and a
number of deaths here this last spring and
summer. On June 24th, Mrs. Matilda Peel,
aged sizty one years, died, having been ill for
seveal months. She was a teacher in the soci-
ety, and is very much missed as one of the
leading members of the choir to which she
belonged. Her husband, Benjamin Peel, died
April 24th, two months before she did, so they
were not long separated; he was some years
her senior.
					A. S. ROGERS, Sec'y.


ST. GEORGE, June 27, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having read many of the reports of the
young ladies’ Associations and having
never reported ourselves here in St. George,
we thought a few lines from us as an Asso-
ciation might prove acceptable.
	There has been since our last Conference
a general re-organization throughout the
Southern Stake of Zion. Formerly there
was but one Young Ladies' Association for
all this city, which is composed of four
wards; but since the re-organization we
have one in each ward.
	On May 28th there was a meeting held in
the Fourth Ward Meeting House for the
purpose of organizing the young sisters of
that ward. The Presidency of this Stake,
with our Bishop, D. H. Cannon and his
counselors were present. The officers for
the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Association were nominated and unani-
mously accepted as follows: Miss Dora L.
Young, President; Misses Libbie A. Snow
and Annie M. Woodbury, Counselors; Miss
Juie A. Ivins, Secretary; Miss Amy C. Cal-
kin, Treasurer.
	We have had three very interesting
meetings since our new organization, and a
good spirit seems to predominate among
the young sisters; they are trying to learn
more about their religion, and to get more
of the spirit of God in their hearts. We
edit a paper entitled "The Young Ladies'
Diadem," the first number of which was
read to-day in our meeting, and it can be
truly said that it exceeded all our expecta-
tions, and did credit to all the contributors,
and any young lady might be proud to have
her name in it. The subjects were well
chosen, and showed considerable talent, as
well as manifesting the spirit of our relig-
ion. We have forty-one names enrolled as
members the majority of whom attend reg-
ularly. We meet every Wednesday, and
edit our paper every two weeks. The Re-
lief Societies and Young Ladies Associa-
tions throughout the city, also hold a gen-
eral meeting the first Thursday in every 
month.
	The EXPONENT is an ever welcome vis-
itor to us, and we never get tired of perus-
ing its interesting columns.
	We remain your sisters,
			DORA L. YOUNG President,
			JUIE IVINS, Secretary.


An old bachelor was courting a widow,
and both sought the aid of art to give their
fading hair a darker shade. "That's going
to be an affectionate couple," said a wag.
"How so?" asked a friend. "Why, don't
you see that they are dyeing for each other 
already?" was the reply.


30		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

	ELMIRA WATER CURE, N. Y.
						June 22, 1877.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Through the blessing of the Lord, I have
been thus far so successful as to receive my
medical diploma, and am now having a
most pleasant rest for a short season —I say
rest because I am not engaged here every
moment with my books and recitations—
though I am still reading, observing, watch-
ing and examining into the principles of
giving baths. That water has a power of 
its own, no one will deny, especially if 
skillfully applied. The end of all medica-
tion is to assist Nature, not to do her work
for her. The Healing-Art in the hands of
the skillful, should be a resort to furnish
the needed prop or stay when nature is fail-
ing or has failed until she rallies or rebuilds
with her inimitable molecules, as with
bright new bricks, the weak place in the 
economy. The resources should be equal
to all the ills the flesh is heir to, and spirit
too, if we could only grow eye to eye in 
faith and scientific knowledge; but to tell
you of the Water Cure—first the situation
is lovely—on a hillside over-looking the
city of Elmira, which so much resembles
Salt Lake City nestling at the foot of the
everlasting hills, and gladdened with beau-
tiful green trees. The Cure consists of a
large main building four stories high with
a verandah on three sides of the first and
second stories. There is a large wing at
each end of the building one connecting
with a separate cottage by a high balustrad-
ed walk between the second stories. In 
front is a lawn finished with a double row
of pines arranged in the form of a semi-
circle and inclosing a walk between them.
To the north-west is a shady glen, with its
trickling streams, delicate ferns and forget-
me-nots. There are some sixty or seventy
patients in the Cure at present, (almost all
ladies) the greater number being able be-
tween bath hours to employ themselves
with light needle-work, fancy knitting,
reading, walking etc. Some few are con-
fined to their rooms or easy chairs. The 
order of the day is about as follows. At 6
30, a. m. the rising bell rings, breakfast
served at 7 30 a. m.; those who are able go
to the dining room, those who are not have
a tray carried to their room. After break-
fast those who desire, repair to the parlor
for the morning service which consists of a 
short reading in the bible and prayer by Dr.
Wales (gentleman,) and singing of a hymn.
The medical offices are now opened of both
Mr. and Mrs. Wales, the patients awaiting
their turn for advice or treatment. Office
hours are followed by baths each patient ac-
cording to the prescription given. Baths
commence at ten o'clock and continue until
twelve; the different kinds are, hot air,
(miniature Turkish) full, threefourths, sitz,
foot, head and foot, pours, etc.; all fin-
ished up with such vigorous slapping and 
massage by robust Scotch girls that the
sleepiest or half dead molecules of blood
are sent madly coursing on their way re-
newing, enlivening and invigorating with
new life every process of the system. Din-
nner is served at 1 p. m., followed by a nap
or some light employment until three
o'clock when baths begin again and con-
tinue until five. The baths are each of a 
specified time ranging from one minute to 
one half or three quarters of an hour. The
tea bell rings at six, after which two hours
is whiled away on the verandah, in the 
parlor, in the glen, or a ride until the eight

[Column 2]
o'clock bath bell rings for those at that hour.
At 9 30 the bell announces the time for all
to retire to their rooms for the night. Last
Monday evening the son of the Drs. Glea-
son, Mr. Edward Gleason and bride held a 
reception here, having just returned from
their wedding tour. The Cure and grounds
were all aglow with the various colored
Chinese lanterns; sweet music wafted
through the soft evening air from the up-
per verandah and the parlor decorated with 
ground pine and ferns was filled with illus-
trious and gay guests waiting their turn to 
wish "many days of happiness" to the 
sweet faced bride in blue silk and soft laces,
and the proud groom, who fan in hand
gallantly and lovingly supported and fan-
ned the woman of his choice. In Mrs.
Wales office was arranged the beautiful
bridal gifts of silver, choice china and glass,
pictures, pearl opera-glasses and an elegant
black marble clock, which all hoped would
never cease to tick through all their days of 
united joy. The dining-room hung around
with evergreens and bedecked with flags
of the Union, was filled with merry strains
of music which soon won all to look or to
take part in the graceful cotillion or giddy
waltz. No refreshments were served, but
iced lemonade flowed freely at all the side
tables. Among the guests of note were
Rev. Thomas R. Beecher with his charming
wife and adopted daughter, Mr. and Mrs.
Samuel L. Glemens ("Mark Twain",) Miss
Virginia Townsend of Boston, an authoress,
Dr. Harsha, author of "Life and Summer"
etc., Mrs. Moe, (whose poems W. C. Bryant
has praised,) Dr. Up. De. Qupp's beautiful
wife, and a number more of the first citi-
zens of Elmira. The evening was one of
unusual pleasure to all.
	The weather to-day is very cool for June,
many of the patients requiring a fire in
their rooms, while others seek the genial
atmosphere of the parlor fire.
	I expect to spend a few days with my
sisters and brothers in Bloomington, Ind.,
and then I hope to hie me to my mountain
home as fast as the laggard steam car will
carry me. I go home heart hungry and
soul starved to feast on the society of my
dear family and friends. As surely as the
temporal economy will starve without bread
so will the soul on scientific knowledge
without spiritual food. I do not say I have
been barren of spiritual gifts for I know the
blessing of the Lord has been with me to
sustain and help me day by day. I did not
come east to preach the Gospel, but I know
I have many times and in many ways bro-
ken down prejudices against my people. It 
has often been said to me "I am glad I have
me you, for I shall always feel differently
now towards your people." When I first
came here all were very genial until in
answer to "where is your home?" I said
"Salt Lake City," like wild fire it went the
rounds "she's a Mormon," when at once
the atmosphere almost went to zero, I was
thereafter received with freezing calmness,
arched eyebrows, and threefourths angle of
shoulder and sometimes a quiet good morn-
ing. I quite as calmly accepted the change
but fervently prayed to the Lord to let truth
triumph, and now the change is marvelous,
pleasant smiles and greetings, warm shakes
of the hand, invitations to visit them in 
their rooms, and interview after interview
requested, and the most intelligent of the 
ladies greet me on all sides. Only a day or
two ago I was closeted with three ladies for
two or more hours answering as rapidly as
possible their eager questions and explain-
ing to my best ability the principles of our 
faith. The conversation was continued
over to another day because the bath girl

[Column 3]
came for the ladies to take their baths.
They told me it was not curiosity that
prompted them, but said with some degree
of earnestness "We want to know the truth,
and we like you; we have read the books
and heard the lectures against your people,
and now we are glad to talk with some one
who thoroughly believes in the faith."
They said they never heard of any elders
preaching in that part of the country, and
when I told them my husband expected to
preach in these parts they said they should 
certainly go to hear him or any elder they 
could hear of. In listening to them I 
thought verily the Lord is using the books
and lectures of apostates as scourges to 
rouse and awaken the people to look about
themselves and inquire "where is the
truth?"—a question when once thoroughly
fastened in the mind, gives some promise
that the truth will be found—it seems nec-
essary that the inferior who have no light
should sound the "gong" to awaken the
sleepers so that the teachers possessed of
light may have the full benefit of their at-
tention and quickened faculties.
	The Dr's. Wales, (Mr. and Mrs.) are un-
wearied in their attentions and care of all
around them and are admirable and suc-
cessful physicians. Dr. Gleason with her
placid and intelligent face, is sweet assur-
ance itself to her patients that all will be
well with them.
	I fear the length of this epistle is out of
all propriety, but since I have passed the
Rubicon as it were, and have rested a little,
I want to say as much too much, as before
too little.
	With the earnest hope that I shall soon
be able to join with the faithful my mite to-
wards building up the Kingdom of God, I
subscribe myself your sister in the Gospel,
			ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.


THE EFFECTS OF BEAUTY IN
NATURE.

BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	"But mighty nature bounds as from her birth—
	The sun is in the heavens, and life on earth;
	Flowers in the valley, splendor in the beam,
	Health in the gale, and freshness in the stream."
		BYRON'S LARA.
	On every hand we behold the beautiful
that which calls forth from us serious
thoughts, admiration and aspirations, of a
healthful tone and an elevating character.
In the pictures which surround us there are
always subjects which cheer and inspire,
which actually preach to us forcibly, in
characters which the intelligence within us
comprehends, although perhaps indefinable
in expression. Nature in her truly elegant
simplicity is the foundation of all education.
The lessons taught us in this simple fashion
are lasting, for they speak to the heart
more than the head; and it is the educa-
tion of the heart that is most refining, and
that is likely to be most neglected.
The impressions made upon us by partic-
ular out-door scenes, rural or sublime, as
they present themselves upon certain occa-
sions, in certain lights and shades, and at
the various seasons, bring to bear not only
the happy association of the time and place,
and force us to remember them ever after-
wards with pleasurable feelings, but they
speak to our inmost souls of what is real,
and far more positive and tangible than the
invention of man in his wisdom can pro-
duce. The artistic excellence of the works
of the Infinite so far surpass all that man
has done,or can do, that we are lost in won-


[Column 1]

der at the thought, and feel that there
must exist higher laws and more advanced
principles of science by which the great
structure of the universe has been reared,
and holds its mighty equipoise. The laws
and principles of men are transitory, those
of nature are enduring, possessing the
germ of life that is eternal, and capable of
endless reproduction. One of the most elo-
quent and touching sermons of our blessed
Savior was suggested from the "lilies of the
field." How insignificant is all the wisdom
of the wise men of the earth, when com-
pared with one eternal principle of the In-
finite.
	There is a kinship and fellowship with
nature that all intelligent and honest heart-
ed persons must be conscious of, though
some may possess it in a fuller or more ex-
alted degree than others. The love which
is spontaneous in our souls for flowers
and shrubs and verdure, brings to our 
hearts a freshness corresponding to their
sweetness and simplicity. One must cer-
tainly be better in feeling, better in life,
from continually coming in contact, and 
being associated with scenes and images of 
beauty. Every mother who desires her
child to possess fineness of soul, and aspira-
tions of the most exalted nature should
surround her home with flowers and shrubs
and foliage, for they beget and foster influ-
ences that will grace childhood with pleas-
antness, mellowing and smoothing much
that would otherwise be rough, dreary and
hard. Point out to the children the beau-
ties of scenery, implant in their natures an
admiration for it, express to them your own
love for it, and your own thoughts concern-
ing it, and let them understand the charm
it carries with it to the soul of the be-
holder. In such simple fashion you may
help to make home pleasant, and develop
your own powers of expression, while you
call forth from them the love of the beauti-
ful, and educate them in the lessons which
nature teaches.
	The exquisite touches of beauty and col-
oring of all nature's landscapes bespeak the
finished culture and polish of a hand and
brain that transcend all mortality, and ought
to engender a consciousness in every per-
son that possesses a spark of innate living
divinity of that immortality of the soul for
the positive knowledge of which every in-
telligent being yearns.
	What grandeur of thought is suggested
by the association of strong, majestic old
trees, by stupendous and lofty mountains,
and vast ledges of rugged and ragged or
moss-grown rocks; what exquisite tender-
ness and gentleness by the lovingly cling-
ing tendrils of some luxuriant unbrageous
vine. And who that has ever dwelt by the 
seashore can forget the surging and mur-
muring of the great deep, and the language
it seems to speak to the soul. The charm
and attraction linger with those who have
been reared by its waters, and they recall it
in dreams and memories to the most dis-
tant period of their lives.
	These lessons which nature teaches alike
to all, open up avenues of thought that
carry us backward to past ages and forward
as far as the vision if the mind can extend.
	There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
		There is a rapture on the lonely shore,
	There is society where none intrudes
		By the deep sea and music in its roar.
	I love not man the less but uature more
		From these our interviews in which I steal
	From all I may be, or have been before,
		To mingle with the universe and feel
	What I can ne'er express yet cannot all conceal.
		CHILDO HAROLD.
The beauties and sublimities of nature

[Column 2]

that we continually behold around us on
every side are to all mankind a perpetual
miracle, that no human mind can ever
wholly solve without divine assistance; and
while they call forth our most sublime ad-
miration, we involuntarily exclaim, "How
wonderful are Thy works' Lord God Omnip-
tent!" 
	S. L. City, July 9, 1877.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

PUBLIC SCHOOL TEACHERS' SALA-
	RIES.

INTERVIEW WITH PRINCIPAL DILL.

He Opposes Reduction, Particularly of
	Ladies' Pay.

	A reporter for the Commercial walking
along Fourth street, yesterday, observed
the school moralist, Dill, gazing upon the
photos and statuary in Robert Clarke's win-
dow, and knowing the genial moralist as a
ready talker on school matters, and one who
says straight out what he thinks, a short
interview was proposed, which contains a
few points of interest, as the Board of Edu-
cation is now about to cut off the school
shekels—reduce the teachers' salaries.
	Reporter—Mr. Dill, what do you think of
the reduction in salaries?
	Dill—I don't think much about it.  Mr.
Miller is a very excellent gentleman, but
his endeavor to reduce school teachers to
the rank of uneducated employes is but an
endeavor to perform a small thing in a
large way.
	Reporter—Well, don't you think that
school teachers are, under present circum-
stances, overpaid?
	Dill—No, sir; the teachers are not over-
paid.  They serve the community well,
wear plain clothes, live in very moderate
style, and only have enough to eat to keep
soul and body together.  The truth is, if
the teachers are to get lower salaries, dress
in poor calico and jeans, board or live in
alleys or unfrequented streets, and slink,
poverty-stricken, from public observation,
the effect will be bad—very bad, upon the
schools.  The teachers are engaged in work
intellectual and moral, and if Mr. Miller de-
grades their salaries, dress, home and social
position, the teacher is degraded in the es-
timation of children and parents.
	Reporter—But hard times seem to require
a reduction in every public department,
and the teachers should contribute a little
in reducing the public burden.
	Dill—No, sir; you are indulging in a mild
form of financial nonsense.  The teachers
are only getting moderate salaries, less in
fact than the teachers of other cities are
getting. Suppose you reduce the teachers'
salaries $5,000, what will you do with the
$5,000?  The money is earned and paid
right out by the teachers to grocers, seam-
stresses, boardinghouse keepers, &c.  Sup-
pose the Board cuts off $10,000, will the
$10,000 be saved, will it be better applied
than now, will it reduce the tax rates? No,
no, sir.
	Reporter—Well, I hear that the commit-
tee will report in favor of cutting off ten
per cent. of your salaries.
	Dill—Yes, I've heard so, but care nothing
about it.  The Board can cut my salary up
or down, but if they cut down the salaries
of the female teachers, they will entitle
themselves to a little merited execration.
	Reporter—Why not reduce their salaries,
as well as the principals?
	Dill—The Principals are supposed to be
men; in an emergency they could, possibly,
do something else, but the women can not.

[Column 2]
It requires from five to eight years' prepa-
ration for the position of teacher; and, [-]e-
porter, see here, now listen to what I am
saying.  God never intended women to
waste their lives in per cent. school teach-
ing, not a bit of it.  Women were intended
for wives and mothers, but school-teaching
is a dead lock against both.  When a young
woman commences to teach school she
loses nine chances in ten for marriage; if
she teaches five years her chances for mar-
riage and the dear delights of motherhood
are but one chance in one hundred, and if
she teaches ten years her chances for mar-
riage and good social position are but one
in ten thousand.  I tell you, reporter, this
ought to be considered.  There are four
hundred and more female teachers in Cin-
cinnati, and of these at least three hundred
will go in plain funeral to unmarked graves,
unknown, unloved, unmarried! This is a
fact not generally treated upon; and I say
that the man who reduces the dress, home
comforts and pleasures of the school wo-
men does an unkindness, a cruelty, an un-
mitigated meanness which ought not to be
forgiven in this world nor that to come.
	Reporter—You do not, then, favor a re-
duction of salaries?
	Dill—So far as my own is concerned I
have nothing to say—they can cut it up or
down $100 or $200.  I have given twenty
years' study to school business; have passed
all the examinations in Ohio; have taught
in common school, high school and college,
and if the Board wishes to reduce my sala-
ry and belittle my position I shall say noth-
ing about it.  I have a wife and several
children, two of my children are in the
schools, and I think Mr. Miller's resolution
will not be prayerfully regarded at my
house.	[Exit Dill,]
—"Cincinnati Commercial."


R. S. REPORT.

		SMITHFIELD, June 14th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 I send you a report of our annual meet-
ing, held May 12th, 1877. It was well at-
tended and we had a good time. The re-
port for the year past is as follows:
Property on hand, donations, dividends in
	store, and sundries.................$695 42
Disbursements to poor, school, and
	on Society house..................... 303 35
Property belonging to Relief Soci-
	ety, vouchers on Utah Northern
	R. R, shares in Co-op store, knit-
	ting machine, quilts, sundries..327 13
	Bishop Samuel Roskelly gave us good in-
structions in regard to home manufacture,
wishing us as a Society to  engage in every
branch of home industry that we can; es-
pecially to plant mulberry trees and go to
raising silk,  and thus help to fulfil the
mission given to the women of Utah. Our
climate is rather cold for the mulberry, but
we intend to obey counsel and leave the re-
sult with the Lord.
	President E. T. Morehead gave us some
good counsel upon our duties as a Relief
Society; said in looking back to the time
when we were first organized she could see
so much improvement, that it gave her
great joy, and she hoped we would con-
tinue to progress in the future.
	We have almost finished our Society
House, and then we expect to have more
means to help build Temples, and for any
other good work that may be needed.
May God bless the EXPONENT and every
good work that is for the building up of
Zion.
					E. T. JUSHAH


32		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Excellent recipe for children for summer com-
plain, teething, etc. Take one ounce of anise
seed and steep it thoroughly; strain it boiling hot
over one-half ounce of Turkish rhubarb grated
fine, add one-quarter of an ounce of carbonate of
soda, one-half pound of sugar, and one pint of
Jamaica rum. Give in small doses, according to 
the age and constitution of the patient; for a very
young child one-half teaspoonful three or four
times a day—for an older one a teaspoonful, and
so on.
	Leave off the Garters.—Children shonld never
wear garters, as the stockings can be perfectly
well kept up by an attachment of elastic strips to
the waistband. If garters are worn it is import-
ant to know how to apply them with the least risk
of harm. At the bend of the knee the superficial
veins of the leg unite and go deeply into the under
part of the thigh beneath the hamstring tendons.
Thus a ligature below the knee obstructs all the
superficial vein; but if the obstruction is above,
the hamstring tendons keep the pressure off the
veins which return the blood from the legs. Un-
fortunately, most people, in ignorance of the above
facts, apply the garter below the knee. Elastic
bands are the most injurious. They follow the
movements of the muscles and never relax their
pressure upon the veins. Non-elastic bands dur-
ing muscular exertion become considerably relaxed
at intervals and allow freer citculation of the
blood.—Popnlar Science Monthly.
	Electricity as a Remedy.—I think the use of
electricty by anybody at present to be experi-
mental. I doubt if there is a man or a woman liv-
ing who can foretell what will be the result from
its use in any case. In the first place, nobody
knows what it is, nor does anybody know any-
thing about it except from its effects. That a 
substance, so called, exists in nature is a fact, but
what its uses are nobody knows. Science has not
evolved the truth in respect to it in this direction.
How to use it remedially, therefore, is not known
at present as a certainty. That a great many per-
sons have been benefitted by its use is not at all
to be questioned; because facts are always to be
received. That a great many persons also have
been greatly injured in its use is not a whit less a
fact. These two facts placed against each other
balance each other, and should satisfy anybody
that whoever uses it, or receives its use, must em-
ploy it or accept it at a risk. In my professional
life I have had a great many persons come to me
for advice, who previous to coming had been under
electric treatment, and who felt they had been
greatly injured by it. Most of those persons to
whom it was administered were suffering from 
chronic congestion of the brain. It would not be
fair for me to say that the injuries they received
were owing to the use of electricity, because lts
use might have been badly administered, and be-
cause I think few persons are by scientific educa-
tion and practice sufficiently well informed as to
what are likely to be the results in any given case
of its use that I say what I do about it. Further
investigation and experiment may develop a
knowledge which shall render its use highly bene-
ficial. When such attainment is secured then it is
to be a matter of rejoicing. At present if I were
suffering from congestion of the brain I should by
no means consent to its exhibition on my own per-
son, unless he who desired to administer it was a 
man of such experience and scientific culture as to
create in me a firm belief that he knew what he
was about, and if he did not help me he would
not harm me.- Journal of Health, Danesville,
N. Y.


In Japan boys become men at fifteen and
receive new names. Many of the youth in
America wear their good names out before
they are fifteen, and are in deplorable want
of new ones.


ORIGIN OF QUARRELS.—The sweetest,
most clinging affection is often shaken by
the slightest breath of unkindness, as the
delicate rings and tendrils of the vine agi-
tated by the faintest air that blows in sum-
mer. An unkind word from one beloved
often draws blood from many a heart which
defy the battle-ax of hatred or the keenest
edge of vindictive satire. Nay, the shade,
the gloom of the face familiar and dear,
awakens grief and pain. These are the lit-
tle thorns which, though men of a rougher
form may make their way through them
without feeling much, extremely incom-
mode persons of a more refined turn in their
journey through life, and make their trav-
eling irksome and unpleasant.


SMALL THINGS.- Neglect of small things
is the rock on which the great majority of
the human race have split. Human life
consists of a succession of small events, each
of which is comparatively unimportant, and
yet the happiness and success of each man
depend upon the manner in which these
small events are dealt with. Character is
built upon little things—little things well
and honorably transacted. The success of a
man in business depends on his attention to
little things. The comfort of a household
is the result of small things well arranged
and duly provided for. Good government
can only be accomplished in the same way
-by well regulated provisions for the do-
ing of little things.-Smiles.


COL. J. REESE
Is Sole Agent for Utah, for the Almond Pow-
			 der Toilet Soap.  
	Finely powdered and put up in glass bottles, with per-
forated tops. As a toilet article, it is excellent; it clean-
ses and purifies the skin.
	For sale, wholesale and retail, corner First South and
Second West Street, Fourteenth Ward.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
			for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
		OF ONE, TWO OR 
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly.  Prices low and no interest charged.  Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
		CALDER & CARELESS.

WOMAN’S COMMISSION HOUSE
IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF 
WOOLEN GOODS,
SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS,
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
				LADIES JACKETS,
					STOCKINGS, YARNS,
						SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
							LATEST	STYLES OF
								fANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men’s Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter. Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vine-
gar, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spoo[-] Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue,
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of Jamaica Ginger
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore
	Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands Sole
		Leather and other Trunks, Gents' Fine
			Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
				Table Salt. Band Boxes and
					Dixie Cotton.	
HOME-MADE WOOLEN BATTING,
NEW ZEALAND FLAX SEED.
DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
	Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY
		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
		Mens and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
			and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
						Pipes, Cutlery, Etc, 
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest,Wholesale Buy-
	ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
	the old Fashioned House.
	THE FINE ARTS.
	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
 We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock[-] Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
Send your orders to 	C. R. SAVAGE
                                     Salt Lake City,	Utah.
Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium.  Do not forget
			17, East Temple street.
		TEMPLE of FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to [-]ive her a
call.
		Z.C.M.I.
			Wholesale and Retail Dealing
				in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
			STUDEBAKER WAGONS, 
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

		TEASEDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
			FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
	LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
		DRESS GOOD, PROVISIONS, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY	
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
			AND
	BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1877.	No. 5.


BLESSED ARE THEY WHO LABOR
FOR ZION.

How blessed are the people
	Who know the Lord their God;
How blest are they who labor
	To spread His truth abroad.
Our God will bless His servants,
	Where'er on earth they roam,
To bear the joyful tidings
	And gather Israel Home.

Though they go forth in weakness
	The Lord will be their friend;
His angels go before them
	His power their ways attend.
Rejoice, O scattered Israel!
	The promised day has come.
When from your long dispersion
	You shall be gathered home.

Go forth, ye chosen servants!
	The joyful news proclaim,
While here we build our Temples
	Iu honor to God's name.
And while the gathering thousands,
	From every land shall come,
We'll store up bread to feed them,
	And bid them welcome home,

With faith and works united.
	Let each their portion bear
To build onr holy Temples,
	And gain our blessings there.
Thus may we all be ready
	When Zion's King shall come,
That we with joy and gladness
	May bid Him welcome home.

And then with all the faithful
	Our promised rest obtain,
A thousand years in Zion
	With Him in peace to reign.
Then in our Father's mansions
	He will prepare us room
The joyful greeting waits us;
	"My children welcome home."

		ESTHER A. HOAGLAND.
S. L. City.


[Column 1]
	JOSEPH SMITH THE PROPHET.

	I consider Joseph Smith the greatest
man the world ever knew, (except the
Savior.) He lived a saint, and died a mar-
tyr for his religion; he sealed his testimony
with his blood which was spilt by the
hands of a bloodthirsty mob who came dis-
guised painted black and red and dressed
in hideous colors and costumes. They were
influenced and led on by pretended preach-
ers of the Gospel. The state authorities
tried time after time to find him guilty of
some evil to convict him, but they never
could, for he was an innocent man; he
served God and loved mankind; even to
the laying down of his life. But with him
as with the Savior and His Apostles, men
would swear to lies to get him into prison;
but he never got angry and went to war.
No! He was like a lamb, he went with
them when he knew they were going to
kill him, and he was as calm as a summer's
morning when he bid his friends good-bye,
and told them that it would yet be said that
he was murdered in cold blood.
	Let us look at what he did for us who be-
lieved and obeyed his words. He taught
us the Gospel and told us there was a God
in heaven, who was our father and we were
His children; he instructed us how to pray
to our Father in the name of Jesus and
gain a knowledge for ourselves, and taught
us how to live and follow Christ our elder

[Column 2]
brother, that we may inherit a kingdom of
glory; if we will live by his teachings and
what he left on record, it will take you and
me right into the celestial kingdom of our
God.
	Can we follow the example he set? He
loved his friends and prayed for his ene-
mies and those who would injure him; he
was kind to the poor and needy, visiting
the sick and afflicted and took care of the
widow and orphans; gave bread to the
hungry and those who would borrow he
turned not away empty, yet he himself was
a poor man; so you see the Lord nearly al-
ways chose the poor to accomplish a great
work. Abraham had no riches when the
Lord called him; Isaac could not be called
rich; Jacob was a herder of stock. David,
a man after God's own heart, he was a
shepherd boy. Moses brought up at the
king's table was turned off without a for-
tune. Jesus the Lord and Savior of the
world, was born in a manger, and brought
up as a poor carpenter's son; he was not
rich for we read of him and his disciples
eating green corn on the Sabbath day be-
cause they were hungry. Thus we see the
servants of the Lord were poor and lowly.
The Lord takes the poor and meek of the
earth to confound the wise and the great.
Think of this church being organized with
only six members in 1830, now they are in
nearly every town, city, village and county
over the whole earth; all through the in-
strumentality of a poor farmer's boy who
read the Bible and was willing to give heed
to the teachings therein. Let us do like-
wise.
						M. A. W.
	Mill Creek Ward, July, 1877.


WOMEN PHYSICIANS.

	I say that to open the study and practise
of medicine to women-folk, under the in-
fallible safe-guard of a stiff public examina-
tion, will be to rise in respect for human
rights to the level of European nations who
do not brag about just freedom half as
loud as we do, and to respect the constitu-
tional rights of many million citizens, who
will pay their taxes like men, and, by the
contract with the State implied in that
payment, have the clear human right they
have yet to go down on their knees for.
But it will also import into the medical
science a new and less theoretical, but cau-
tious, teachable, observant kind of intel-
lect; it will give the larger half of the na-
tion an honorable ambition and an honora-
ble pursuit toward which their hearts and
instincts are bent by Nature herself; it will
tend to elevate this whole sex, and its
young children, male as well as female, and
so will advance the civilization of the
world, which in ages past, in our own day,
and in all time, hath and doth and will keep
stop exactly with the progress of women
toward mental equality with men.—Cha's
Reade, in Harper's for July.


THE darkness of night helps us Ito see
the bright stars—the darkness of sorrow
helps us to see God and heaven.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MONDAY EVENING July 16, Mother
Stewart addressed a very large audience, in
Cooper Institute, N. Y.
	MISS LYDIA Becker stated, at a Woman
Suffrage meeting in England recently, that
there were 2,500,000 spinsters in Great
Britian who owned $750,000,000 of prop-
erty.
	MISS E. STAUNTON Chadbourne, of Bos-
ton, is about to make miscellaneous read-
ings a profession. She is a graduate of the
"Boston School of Oratory,' which for in-
struction in Elocution is second to no other
in the country.
	THE DESERET News of July 27, states
that the Union Pacific workmen obtained
their point without recourse to violence or
a strike. The order for a reduction of wa-
ges was rescinded by Sup't Clarke on
his own responsibility, who announced his
willingness to hear any of their grievances
at any time and conciliated them by reduc-
ing the price of coal supplies to their fami.
lies.
	THE GREAT Strikes in the States have been
increasing daily, and up to the present time
have not abated. It is impossible to give any
idea of the terrible consequences which are
now being felt, and what the future will be
no man without the aid of revelation could
possibly determine. The suppression of
the mobs and riots will call into exercise
all the energies and capabilities of the wis-
est and best heads. If it continues for any
length of time the country will certainly
be involved in ruin, which at the present
representation of affairs from newspaper
reports is imminent. In all the largest cit-
ies along the railroad routes life and prop-
erty are at the mercy of those who are in-
furiated with the spirit of mobocracy
which seems to be broadcast now over
these United States. Indian depredations
and troubles are also on the increase and
the state of things all over this country is
really deplorable. The Eastern war ac-
counts are by no means indicative of peace
or of any amicable arrangements, and ac-
cording to recent telegrams the two empires
are calling to their aid all the reinforce-
ments they can possibly obtain.


A SIDE LIGHT.—Never face the light
when at work, but contrive to have a side
light, which will not shine directly in the
eyes. In the schools in Germany this mat-
ter has already been attended to, and the
rule adopted is to have all the seats and ta-
bles so arranged that the pupil never faces
the windows, but only has the side lights
from the left; and as a light simultaneously
thrown from two sides, gives an inference
of shadows, it has been strictly forbidden
to build school-rooms with windows on
both sides, such illumination having also
proved injurious to the eyes of the pupils.
We may add to this advice not to place the
lamp in front of you when at work in the
evening, but a little on one side; use a
shade—a green one is best as it softens the
light, which illuminates only the work up-
on which it falls.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
Saturday, July 21, was exceedingly inter-
esting. President Mrs. M. I. Horne re-
marked that the minutes of the last meet-
ing were full of instruction and showed the
great improvement being made. She gave
good advice to mothers in respect to the
care of their children and especially con-
cerning their diet. Remarks were made
by several of the sisters who attended the
recent meeting of the Weber Relief Socie-
ties inOgden, in regard to the good in-
structions and wise counsel given there to
women by President Young and other
brethren. Many good things were said on
the subject of being self-sustaining and the
practice of economy. The study of medi-
cine or more particularly obstetrics was
commented upon, and the idea of encour-
aging our girls to make themselves profi-
cient in the study and practice, and learn to
obey all the laws of life. These meetings
are replete with good instruction, and ex-
ercise a powerful influence for good in the
midst of the saints.

	GRANTSVILLE, TOOELE, July 16, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The sisters of this branch of the Relief
Society are trying to keep up with the
times. There are no poor uncared for; the
teachers are faithful in the discharge of
their duties. Retrenchment from every
evil is taught in our meetings; backbiting
is condemned. We have nearly three hun-
dred bushels of grain stored away and in-
tend to still take care of all we can get.
The counsel of President Young to supply
our own wants is being carried out to a
great extent. We shall endeavor to plant
out a lot, that the brethren has given us, in
mulberry trees next spring, for the purpose
of raising silk-worms. We are striving to
become united in doing all the good we
can. The young ladies are also doing well.
	With best wishes for the prosperity of
the EXPONENT we remain your sisters in
the Gospel, M. A. Hunter, President; Jane
Eastham, and Sarah Hale, Counselors.
				M. A. HOUSE, Secretary.

		HILLSDALE, IRON CO. UTAH.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A Relief Society was organized at this
place June 3, 1877, under the direction of
Elder Seth Johnson, president of the
branch, and several other brethren; we had
an excellent meeting and much good in-
struction was given. The election of offi-
cers were as follows: For president, Mrs.
Mary A. Johnson; counselors Mrs. Martha
A. Wilson, and Mrs. Julia D. Wilson; Sec-
retary, Mrs. Susanna D. Pinney; Assistant
Secretary, Miss Martha A. Wilson; Treas-
urer Mrs. Mary J. Johnson. We live in a
somewhat scattered condition on account of
many having large farms but we meet to-
gether and enjoy ourselves in our meetings
very much, at the present. We number
fifteen members, but expect that number
will continue to increase. We are making
preparations for gathering and storing grain
according to the counsels of President
Young, and intend to try to keep up with
the times in every good work. We have a
Young Men's Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation at this place which is doing much
good among the young. Our general Sab-
bath meetings are well attended and the
spirit of union and good feeling prevails

[Column 2]
and all seem interested in trying to carry
out the counsel of the priesthood of God
upon the earth, and although the wicked
may howl and strive to utterly destroy the
Kingdom of God, our faith is that it will
triumph, and the wicked receive their just
reward.
	Hoping that prosperity may attend all
the branches of the Relief Society through-
out the Territory, I remain your sister in
Gospel,
			SUSANNA D. PINNEY,
						Secretary.


CORRESPONDENCE.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	I use the term dear as expressive of my
feelings, and you are, or should be dear to
every woman in Utah who has the interest
of Zion at heart. It is not because I never
think of writing there is never a line from
me in your columns, but because I do not
feel capable of interesting my sisters. I
often think if I could only write like "Aunt
Em" and some other contributors to the
EXPONENT, I should write often; but there
is a time when we all have to begin.
	We have had quite a sad time here lately
on account of the drowning of one of Elder
Woodruff's sons; the particulars of the ac-
cident were published in the "Deseret
News." Mrs. Phebe Woodruff of Salt Lake
City came up to the funeral and stayed a
few days. While here, she kindly con-
sented to talk to the Relief Society and
Young Ladies' Association. I never heard
better or more motherly advice in my life.
I thought while listening to her wise coun-
sel, the time is about passed when women
will be looked upon as mere drudges and
helps by the lords of creation. They are
stepping to the front and taking their pla-
ces where they belong, by the side of men,
not as the head but as the helpmeet. I
think if the world could hear some of our
Mormon women talk, and could read our
paper and know how they express them-
selves in writing, they would not speak as
they do about us. Of course all the women
in Utah are not saints, and tourists talk to
that class as well as to true saints, and form
impressions accordingly, and they go away
and say, "a fine young lady said to me
while in Utah, I shall never go into polyg-
amy, I do not want to share my husband
with another wife," and so on. They who
write thus, are not aware that those who
talk like this are not true Latter-day saints;
and of course they will not live in plural
marriage and if they should they would
not remain true to its requirements, and
make those happy with whom they were
associated.
	Our Relief Society and Young Ladies'
Association are in a prosperous condition,
under the guidance of their worthy presi-
dents, viz., E. T. Morehead, president of
the Relief Society, and A. Barber, of the
Young Ladies' Association.
	We are anxiously looking for a visit from
some of the rest of our good sisters from
the city, to talk to us. Praying for the
success of your valuable paper, I remain,
	Your Sister in the Gospel.
		M. S.


For the EXPONENT.
			PRAYER.

	I often think of the word prayer and its
great efficacy-indeed, without prayer how
could we endure trails? It fills the heart


with gratitude and love to approach the
throne of grace by supplication; it soothes
the weary; it puts the mind to rest; it com-
forts us through sorrows, when we feel that
we must give up, if we cannot find help.
When we see our loved ones taken from us,
one by one, and we feel ofttimes that God
has forgotten us; those we have thought
our true friends forsake us, and our neigh-
bors slight us; we have no friends and
nothing worth living for; disappointments
befall us, and a chastening hand is upon us
and our trials seem more than we can bear;
it is then, if we will humble ourselves and
say Father, forgive me my sins, and teach
me to do thy wiil, that we realize the words
“Ask of me in my name and you shall re-
ceive.” Then we will find consolation in
prayer; we begin to feel like taking up
our cross and jogging along and going about
our duties, saying, “Blessed is the name of
the Lord.”
	Dear sisters, do you ever feel like this?
if you do you cannot get such comfort in
any other way as you may through prayer.
Then how necessary it is for us to pray.
we should keep it in our minds continually,
that all we do and say, every action of our
lives, should be the subject of prayer.  Our
minds may be filled with good thoughts for
each other, that we may grow better day
by day that we may be a comfort to those
that are around us, that when we lay our
bodies down to rest we shall be missed, and
be worthy to meet those loved ones that
are gone before us.  Then let us always
pray.	
							A SISTER.
	Alpine, Utah Co., June 20, 1877.


SHREDS AND GLEANINGS.

	A fashionable summer resort—The Society
Islands.
	The moon is so old, that, if it is made of
green cheese it is unquestionably inhab-
ited.
	What is that which never asks any ques-
tions, but requires many answers?—The
street-door.
	The Dearest Object. A man's dearest ob-
ject should be his wife; but alas! sometimes
it is his wife's wardrobe.
	"Spell cat," said a little girl of five years
of age, the other day, to a smaller one of
three. “I can’t," was the reply. "Well,
then," continued the youthful mistress, "if
you can't spell cat, spell kitten."
	Advice is offensive, not because it lays us
open to unexpected regret, or convicts us of
any fault which has escaped our notice, but
because it shows that we are known to oth-
ers as well as ourselves: and the officious
monitor is persecuted with hatred, not be-
cause his accusation is false, but because he
assumes the superiority which we are not
willing to grant him, and has dared to de-
tect what we desire to conceal.
	A Dish for the Queen—In olden days the
peacock was a favorite dish with lords and
ladies of high degree. It was customary
to skin the bird without plucking, and send
the roast bird to table in its natural envel-
op. The peacock was considered in the
days of chivalry, not simply as an exquisite
delicacy, but as a dish of peculiar solemnity.
When it was brought to the table, decorat-
ed with its plumage, its comb gilded, and a
sponge in its bill, wet with spirits of wine
and lighted, it was the signal for the gallant
knights present to make vows to accomplish
some deed of chivalry "before the peacock
and the ladies."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


COUNT DE CHARNEY.

REFLECTIONS ON READING "PICCAOLA."

Alone and forsaken on life's stormy main,
With no hope of the blessing of freedom again,
His aims and ambition for earth in the dust:
Despair, in his bosom no faith and no trust
In his God and his Saviour to pierce through the gloom,
That enshrouded his spirit more dark than the tomb.

The phantom of happiness which he had sought,
That cannot with things of earth ever be bought,
Had fled from before him as dew from the lawn.
All, all but despair and his cold pride were gone.
With thought's maddening power alone in his cell,
His soul's bitter anguish no mortal can tell.

There came to his prison by kind angels sent,
Who on missions of love o'er the lone one had bent,
A frail gentle flower, like him there alone,
And it touched a deep heart-chord before all unknown,
A chord which could lead him to peace and to love,
To see God in His works, and to him look above.

He had drank, deeply drank of science and art,
In all of earth's pleasures had borne a wild part,
The proud and the lovely before him had knelt,
But the touch of pure friendship he never had felt,
Until to his prison this frail flower came,
Which taught him to love, and his fierce pride to tame.

He knelt unto man for the life of his flower,
For his own, would have scorned to bow down to the
	power
Which had torn from him honor, fame fortune and all,
And confined a lone prisoner within the dark wall,
In those hours of darknesss it was his one joy,
His thought and his study his care and employ. 

It saved to him reason, it brought to him love,
And friendship as pure as the angel's above;
It opened at last his dark prison cell,
And placed him again 'mid life's pleasures to dwell;
He took this mute friend this companion in pain,
To share in the sunshine of freedom again.

He won for a bride the fair girl who had come,
To share with her father his dark prison home,
To smooth with her loved hand his silvery hair,
And with smiles strive to win him from sorrow and care,
It showed him the power which love has to win,
The heart from all selfishness lurking within.

Now pause I in sorrow and pain to relate,
Of his flower, his angel of blessing, the fate;
To tell its neglect in his triumph and joy,
And how this neglect its fair life did destroy:
Alas o'er my heart comes a desolate pain
Tis'the same sad life-story repeated again.

He had, placed it where beauty and light shone around,
Where moon-beams and dewdrops gleamed bright on the
	ground,
But it faded and silently passed from the earth,
While he was deep drinking of gladness and mirth;
The sunshine and moonbeams all vainly had shone,
While the light and the love of his presence were gone.
	HOPE.
S. L. City, 1877.	Sarah E. Russell


A VISIT TO KIRTLAND

   The name Kirtland is so familiar to the
large majority of your readers, that an ex-
tended preamble would be out of place.
Let it be known, however, that the place
was once a Mormon stronghold, and the
home of 40,000 people; and beside the in-
terest it has for me from this cause, it is the
birthplace of my father.
   Whoever it was that set the laws of
physical geography at such defiance as to
name is Kirtland Flats is not known, but it
is safe to assume that he was some rela-
tive to that personified paradox who intro-
duced white black-birds into the country.
Instead of flats it is all hills and dales, al-
ternating in endless variety, but withal a
charming piece of nature adorned profusely
with verdure, patches of forest and culti-
vated fields, while a clear stream of water
meanders on its sinuous way, widening,
bending, curling  over meadows in succes-
sion, till in final despair it plunges out of
sight in the intricate mazes of the woods.
The Kirtland of to day is not that of fortyyears ago- merely the shadow. The hun-
dreds of rude log houses that at one
time covered the hills and valleys, like
their inmates, have mostly disappeared.
The hum of industry has departed, and only
the occasional clink of a hammer of the
stroke of an axe may be heard where all
was once alive with the noise of trade and
manufacture. The aspect is one of general
retrogression, and the home of a thriving
colony is now the dwelling place of a few
hundred souls who seem in appearance the
fast dying remains of the lethargy which
surrounds them. The Mormon Temple,
alone tells the story of the past. On an
eminence facing the east, it rears its head
in solemn dignity above the surrounding
elevations and scattered wrecks of the
buildings it has survived, a weather-stained
relic of a former greatness- an inanimate
Marius on the ruins of Carthage. Above
the front entrances, which are reached by
two flights of broad stone steps, the gilded
inscription "Built by the Church of Jesus
Christ- 1834," still shines bright as ever,
but the original appearance of the walls out-
side has been wrought upon materially by
the wear and tear of the elements.
   When the Mormons left Kirtland, the
building fell into the hands of Grandison
Newell, a bitter and active persecutor of
the Church, who disposed of it for a few
hundred dollars to another, who in turn dis-
posed of it to some one else. It was pur-
chased finally by Joseph Smith jun., the
son of the martyred Prophet, in whose pos-
session it still remains, being used as a
place of worship by his followers. These
are called "Josephites," but call themselves
"True Latter-day Saints," in distinction to
the Latter-day Saints, or "Mormons," of
Utah, whom they regard in anything but
a spirit of brotherly kindness, as heretics
who have wandered into the wilderness
away from the standard of truth. Presi-
dent Young they call an usurper, and be-
cause he nobly shouldered the labors and
sorrows of a down-trodden people, and
pushed the work ahead under the most try-
ing circumstances of its history, instead of 
letting it lay aside for sixteen years waiting
for their jumping-jack ideal to spring from
his trap, consider him the personification
of all that is bad. The sect around Kirt-
land numbers but few, and are generally
despised by the other inhabitants, but
whether deservedly or not I am unable to
say. They oppose gathering, and are scatter-
ed from Dan  Beersheba, the headquarters
being at Plano, Ills., where the leader now
resides. According to their own accounts,
the glory of their evangelical achieve-
ments is something startling, o'ertopping
imagination- if imagination can o'ertop
itself. The Mormons of Utah are being
converted "en masse," acknowledge the
error of their ways, and on the word of
command from the Josephite leader will
rally around his standard. My informant,
the Superintendent of the Temple, after I
had expressed my open-mouthed surprise
(?) at being told things that a life of twenty-
two years in Salt Lake City had failed to 
apprise me of, was in his turn astonished
to hear that I was a recent arrival from
Utah, but with an admirable quickness he
regained his composure and told me these
things were great secrets. The work in
Utah was carried on very privately, no
Mormon having the least suspicion of it.
I was puzzled. My finite mind could not
grasp this problem, and dreading the fate
of Hugh Miller I determined to investi-
gate it no further. That system of religion
which can convert a man and keep it a
profound secret from him, is indeed "fear-
fully and wonderfully made."
   All who come to Kirtland explore the Tem-
ple and register their names, a nominal fee
being collected by the one who has charge
of the premises. On the first floor, where the
religious services are held, the walls are in
a tolerably good condition. The two rows
of pulpits with the letters designating the
grades of the Priesthood, face each other
from the opposite ends of the apartment,
and, excepting some of the seats, remain
in statu quo. The place is well furnished
with seats and facilities for  lighting up.
The rollers on the lofty ceiling show that
it was once divided by curtains, while
everything betrays a beautiful economy
and convenience of design and execution.
 On the next floor, to reach which we re-
turn to the hall and ascend a flight of stairs,
the walls and scanty furniture are in a bare
and shattered state. A placard informs us
that this was once the "School of the
Prophets;" but is now used, when permis-
sion is given, for school exhibitions, temper-
ance revivals, lectures, and other entertain-
ments requiring a room of its size. A no-
tice nailed to a pillar, after an "impartial"
and charitable (?) synopsis of Mormonism,
and a slur on its leader, announces that
"We (the Josephites) wish it distinctly un-
stood that we are no part of the L. D. S. of
Utah, we have nothing to do with them;
(and yet the mighty work of conversion
goes on) we are not Mormons."
   My cousins, who accompanied me on the
visit, had been bantering me heretofore,
on the supposition that the Salt Lake Mor-
mons and the Josephite faction were iden-
tical- an idea which is very general, not-
withstanding the announcement quoted
above- hence, in view of the decided aver-
sion in which they held the latter, it was
with a degree of satisfaction that I pointed
out this confirmatory evidence to my pre-
vious denial.
   We now ascended to the third floor, went
through a succession of small rooms con-
taining crippled benches, blackboards ruined
walls, and other paraphernalia which in-
dicated that at some period of the Temple's
history this part had been used as a pri-
mary school.
   After ascending to the belfry by a flight
of steps in the last stages of delirium trem-
ens, and taking a bird's eye view of the
surrounding country, we descended to the
office, registered our names and departed.
   Some others of the old buildings associa-
ted with the early history of the Mormon
Church, yet remain; among these are the
Kirtland bank, now occupied by a private
family,  and Gilbert and Whitney's old
store, still used for  original purposes and
wearing a look as solemn and equivocal as
a stepmother's invitation to dinner.
							IAGO. 
				[illegible signature]
-Salt Lake Herald.


FLOWERS.

	As every thread of gold is valuable, so is
every moment of time.
	KIND words do not cost much. They
never blister the tongue or lips, and we
have never heard of any mental trouble
arising therefrom.
	THE history of the world teaches this
that the only safe guide of a great intellect
is a pure heart; that evil no sooner takes
possession of the heart then folly commen
ces the conquest of the mind.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m, every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 1, 1877.


VALEDICTORY.

	In announcing my exit from the editorial
department of THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT, I do
not feel that I am bidding its patrons and read-
ers "a long and sad farewell;" but hope, as a
contributor, to still communicate with them
occasionally.
	In consideration of the curiosity, and per-
haps anxiety, of my friends, personal and
otherwise, I give a brief explanation of my
reasons for withdrawing from public service
for the present. My general health is good,
but my head aad eyes need recruiting, and I
have decided to humor them. I have also de-
cided that during the years of my life which
may be properly devoted to the rearing of a
family, I will give my special attention to that
most important branch of "Home Industry."
Not that my interest in the public weal is di-
minishing, or that I think the best season of a
woman's life should be completely absorbed in
her domestic duties. But every reflecting
mother, and every true philanthropist, can see
the happy medium between being selfishly
home bound, and foolishly public spirited. At
least, I see the interjacence of which I speak,
and believe there is wisdom in choosing it. I
am content to give up all claim to the EXPO-
NENT, and to be released from further responsi-
bility concerning it, knowing as I do, that I
leave it in good hands.
	In conclusion, I will say to my sisters old
and young, let us subscribe for and write to
our little paper. Let us aid all we can to make
it more and more interesting and successful in
performing its mission.
	LULA GREENE RICHARDS.


TO PERSONAL FRIENDS.

	A second little daughter was born to me on
the 24th of June of this year. We named her
Mabel Greene. I was blest with her sweet,
happy presence only three weeks and three
days. Although to all appearance strong and
healthy from the first, she left us on the 18th
of July, afrer a few hours' suffering, to join
her sister and other blessed associates in the
spirit world.	LULA.


LABOR FOR ZION.

	Labor for Zion should be the motto of all
who have enlisted under the banner of the
Everlasting Gospel. This work should include
all labor temporal and spiritual, and is both
individual and general. While laboring for
Zion each one is attaining to his or her own
exalt-ation with the innumerable hosts of
Zion's workers in former and latter days.
	The terrible existing state of things at the
present time in this, the land of free govern-
ment, is indicative of the great calamities that


will and must necessarily precede the setting
up of God's kingdom upon the earth.
	Women profess to have great intuition, to be
particularly susceptible of impressions as re-
gards the future; if such is the case (and we
believe it is) then they should be wise in time,
and be practical in the movements to become
self-sustaining. The women of Utah have
been counseled to store up grain for Zion, a
mission of which they may justly be proud; a
mission such as women never before we think
received at any time upon the earth. And
now that the harvest is near, and the fields
ripening, it is time to take into wise consider-
ation what can be done to carry out this coun-
sel, and make careful and judicious preparation
for the future. Parties of ladies could be
formed for the especial purpose of gleaning
after the reapers. These might be made par-
ticularly pleasant, as well as profitable, if the
sisters entered into it with that zeal and en-
thusiasm they do into excursions merely for
recreation. Of course the sisters would under-
stand that leave must be obtained from own-
ers of fields, so that there would be no intru-
sion.
	There are very many branches, here in Zion,
of home work and industries, in which women
might be much more extensively engaged and
interested, even without neglecting domestic
duties. Women should be quick to compre-
hend the great advantages to be derived from
these home resources, all of which are a part of
the Political Economy of Our Mountain Home.


[Column 1]

HOME AFFAIRS.

	ELDER ORSON PRATT left Salt Lake City
for England July 18, and sailed from New
York for Liverpool July 31. He has gone thither
to superintend the publishing of the Book of
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants in the
Phonetic Alphabet, which is about to be intro-
duced into general use in Utah.
	AT THIS warm season of the year, bathing is
a most healthful and delightful recreation. Salt
Lake is preferable to any other place of resort
and there is every facility now to make it plea-
sant and practicable. The Utah Western Rail-
road have so arranged the time as to suit all
who may be anxious to avail themselves of the
opportunity of these recuperating and exhilir-
ating baths. 
	WE WISH to call the attention of the sisters
to the Woolen Batting now for sale at the
Woman's Commission House, which is pre
ferable to cotton for all uses on account of its
being lighter, and puffy in appearance; also
the New Zealand Flax seed, which should be
thoroughly tested here, as it is very necessary to
have some home material for summer clothing.
	TO-DAY, July 27, we had a pleasant call from
Elders Martin Lenzi and Rulon S. Wells, re-
turned missionaries. They left Salt Lake City
Nov. 6, 1875, and proceeded almost direct to
Berne, Switzerland, by way of Liverpool.
They have labored during their absence in the
Swiss and German Mission, and have enjoyed
their labors exceedingly. They gave us some
entertaining accounts of that picturesque coun-
try, so celebrated for its beautiful mountain
and lake scenery. Br. Lenzi visited the place
of his birth in the village of Wallbach, Canton
of Aargau, Switzerland. In the very house
where he was born he feasted upon grapes
which grew upon its walls; he roamed over
the farm and through the gardens and forests
which were once his childhood's home. This
little village is about one hundred miles north-
east from Berne, and is in full view of the
Black Forest of Germany. We are pleased to

[Column 2]

welcome these brethren home in safety, feeling
they have filled their mission honorably.
	THE GRAND Sunday School Jubilee in honor
of the anniversary of the pioneer's entrance
into this valley, July 24th, thirty years since,
was a complete success. The music was grand
and inspiring; the songs were rendered with
spirit and feeling, harmonizing with the occa-
sion. President B. Young addressed the con-
gregation, giving them some items of church
history from its first organization. The Ruined
Cattage, by D. McKenzie, was touching, and
eloquently rendered. An address written by
Miss E. R. Snow was given by George F. An-
derson, who acquitted himself admirably on
the occasion. The Tabernacle was elaborately
decorated with flowers and evergreens, and the
thousands of children, with pleasant faces and
glad voices, singing praises and rejoicing, was
truly animating. Truly the saints have reason
to rejoice in the blessings of God upon their
labors, in converting the desert into a choice
and fruitful garden, where bloom the fairest
flowers in profusion, and children "full as it
can hold," and peace and prosperity crown
their days.
	THURSDAY MORNING, July 19th, President
Young and a select party of brethren and sis-
ters went to Ogden by special train, to attend
a meeting, in the Ogden Tabernacle, of the
Relief Societies of Weber Co. The Taberna-
cle was crowded to overflowing, the congrega-
tion being nearly all ladies—officers and mem-
bers of the various Relief Societies of Weber
Co. After the usual exercises, President
Young arose and stated that he had expected
to hear reports from the different societies, but
since his arrival had been informed that the 
meeting had been called expressly to receive
instructions from himself and the brethren.
He proceeded to instruct them upon the sub-
ject of health—how to avoid sickness, how
mothers should train their children; counseled
mothers to give them early lessons of faith and
principle; to teach them to believe implicitly
in God, and that He takes cognizance of every
act of their lives; that they are surrounded by
good angels, ministering spirits; and inculcate
in their hearts and minds a love of virtne,
honesty and truthfulness, and let their exam-
ple be in harmony with their precept and
the force of this education would have a bear-
ing upon their whole lives, when they should
go out from under the mother's influence. He
designated mothers as the moving iustrument
in the hands of Providence to guide the desti-
nies of nations, and exhorted mothers to teach
their children not to make war, but to teach
them peace; he asked the question, "Who
gives the key to the nations of the earth? It
is the mothers, it is not the fathers." In giv-
ing advice and counsel on minor points, he al-
luded to trifles and small things making up all
great matters, that our lives are full of little
incidents which make one great whole, one
vast experience; that the earth itself was com-
posed of little grains of sand. He referred to
the counsel he gave the sisters in regard to stor-
ing up wheat, with which he was pleased, and
spoke earnestly and emphatically on the sub-
ject of making our own hats and bonnets, also
hats for the brethren, and said that even in
this one class of manufacture we could save
tens of thousands of dollars; and that to save
money was more difficult than to earn it. He
urged upon the sisters the necessity of enter-
ing heart and soul into the home industries,
and to use their utmost influence with their
husbands to have them establish such institu-
tions and manufactories as would make this
people independent. His instructions were


most eloquent, full of pathos and fatherly
counsel, and if carried out in the lives of the
saints, would very soon make us not only
healthful and wealthy, but fit us for the socie-
ty of angels and sanctified beings.
 Elder Carrington in his remarks dwelt at
some length upon fashion, which to him, he
said, was a myth, he asked no odds of Mrs.
Grundy; felt that it was beneath the dignity
of a saint to follow the fashions of Babylon;
exhorted the sisters to make their own fash-
ions; said that some of the sisters were ahead
of the brethren in many good things.  President
Wells, in the course of his remarks, said he
had long conceded woman was a power in the
earth, and he hailed these organizations of the
sisters as a harbinger of good results, carrying
with it as it did an influence more manifest
than in times past.  That woman was an in-
dispensable helpmeet to man, and should occu-
py that position in all practical work in build-
ing up the kingdom of God, as well as in spir-
itual work and exaltation; said that the saints
of God should learn to govern and controlthemselves according to the laws that govern
our being, and the principles of life and salva-
tion.  Elder John Taylor said there were more
women present than was usual to meet; he al-
luded to woman's faith, referred to the counsel
which a woman gave to the rich man whom
the Savtor told to go and dip seven times in
Jordan; he felt it was too little a thing, but the
woman had faith and intuition, and by listen-
ing to her he was healed through obedience.
Spoke of obeying the laws of life and health,
to preserve our lives to the age of a tree, and
alluded to the manner in which children were
brought up in the aristocrat families of Europe,
and said as saints we ought to be more particu-
lar in the training of our children than the
people of the world are, and pray God ever to
help us.  President Young then gave some
wise and practical instructions concerning the
mission of sericulture, which had been given
to the sisters, and told them it was a way in
which they could make money for their own
use.  Talked a little more about dress; said
that our time was all we could call our own,
we should have to give an account of it, and
therefore we should use it to the best possible
advantage, in assisting to build up the king-
dom of God upon the earth.  Elder Franklin
D. Richards arose and made a few closing re-
marks; requested in behalf of Mrs. Richards,
president of Weber County societies, that these
societies would prepare a quarterly report of
the condition of each society and its financial in-
terests, to be read there three months from that
time, to which time that meeting was  en-
tering more fully and earnestly into the work
of home industries and helping to become self
sustaining, a request was made for them to rise
to their ieet: to which every one in the room
responded gladly.
	Altogether the day was one of rejoicing,
everything passing off pleasantly.  The good
people of Ogden were most profuse in hospi-
tality to those who came from other places,
and there were so many good things said for
the encouragement of women in stepping for-
ward to assist in building up Zion, that we
could only wish that all the world could have
heard it.  Mormon women should surpass the
women of the world in good works, for they
are in the enjoyment of the wisest counsel, and
it is to be hoped they will carry it out in their
lives and transmit to posterity a heritage of
good deeds, more precious than gold or gems.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 Allow me, a stranger here in your really
beautiful city, to acknowledge a very great
pleasure recently afforded me at your pleasant
and cosy office—that of meeting, by request
and my own desire, the several intelligent
ladies who had there assembled to discuss mat-
ters pertaining to health, its physiological
laws, and the penalty of a perversion of them.
To me the theme has ever been fraught with
intense interest, and in importance paramount
to all other subjects, especially where woman
is concerned; and the sad fact that women in
general give it less attention than any other, is
to me a source of deep regret.  Hence, I repeat,
my delight to find here intelligent ladies earn-
estly engaged in the study of medicine, the
various organic weaknesses and complaints of
females, their prevention and cure.  The one
desire, seemingly, of gaining all possible use-
ful information calculated to enable them to
inaugurate a better system or understanding of
the laws of health, so that those possessing it
may preserve, and those suffering from its loss
find relief and restoration.  To find ladies thus
usefully engaged is truly gratifying in the ex-
treme, and manifests the true noble woman,
such as "The Allwise Creator" intended. Itis not only a proof of their commendable am-
bition, but noble, pure desires, and interest in
the welfare of their sex, mentally, physically
and morally; for if health be preserved, the
happy possessor is less liable to the many
short-comings of a disease physical and men-
tal.  A diseased mind is often the result of a
diseased body, and the errors often committed
can with certainty be traced to this the first
and true cause.  This being the case, how im-
portant that we seek to preserve and fully ap-
preciate this most choice of blessings, health,
which our Heavenly Father has vouchsafed us.
	In the matter and manner of dress alone for
its effects upon health, there offers much for
thought and discussion.  Many "dress-reform-
ers" have earnestly labored to invent and in-
troduce certain costumes, which they claim to
be more healthful, at least more comfortable,
all bearing merit; but for various reasons they
have not been adopted, except by a few. I
have myself given the subject much thought,
and the result has been the invention of several
articles and appliances, some of which I have
had patented.  I have sought to improve upon
those heretofore offered for the purpose, and to
have such as would be the most perfect possi-
ble, affording comfort and relief to my suffer-
ing sex, and have the assurance of not having
striven in vain.  Among the various useful ar-
ticles and appliances I have, I purpose making
special mention of two, that should come into
general use.  Such as every lady should con-
sider indispensable.  The first is a "Health
Corset," having a combination of skirt-sup-
porter and shoulder-straps.  It is also entirely,
wholly free from front steels or clasps, so inju-
rious to females, and is in every way a health-
ful article of dress.  This corset, supporting as
it does the weight of clothing to, or from the
shoulder, is also so arranged as to prevent not
only the weight but heat, so injurious, caused
by so many folds of clothing resting upon the
spine. The importance of removing both the
heat and weight cannot be too earnestly advo-
cated; for it is these which occasion a weak-
ness, often difficult to overcome by the most
united efforts.  This corset, though loosely
worn and free from steels, improves the figure,
and is all that any lady requires.  The other
article referred to is simply a skirt-supporter,
which may be worn with or without a corset,
and which is a most perfect and valuable arti-
cle.  It is also inexpensive, an article that
every lady will feel able to avail herself of.
The weight of clothing is by this article borne


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		37


OBITUARY.

	Died in Salt Lake City, July 3d, 1877, after
a lingering illness, of Liver complaint, Mrs.
Ann Edmunds, daughter of Johnathan and 
Amy Brunning, and wife of Francis Edmunds
of this city. Deceased was born in Wangford,
Suffolk Co., England, July 29, 1822; embraced
the Gospel in May, 1849, and emigrated to Utah
in 1868, where she has lived the life of a true
Saint. She was the mother of thirteen chil-
dren, eight of whom are still living, and eight
grandchildren. She has filled faithfully, for a
number of years, the office of teacher in the 
branch of the Relief Society of the Tenth
Ward, and her kind words of counsel and min-
istering hand will be sadly missed by those
with whom she associated. Though great the
bereavement in consigning her to the silent
grave, we have the assurance that her good
works will live after her.			M. P.
Died, in Harrisville Ward, Weber County,
Utah, on Tuesday morning, June 12th, 1877, of
heart disease, Margaret Parkinson. wife of
Richard Daniels Brown. She was born May
12th 1811, at Lamberhead Green near Wigan-
Lancashire, England; married Sept. 30th, 1830,
at Hindley Church near Wigan. She embraced
the gospel in the Manchester Conference, Eng-
land, June 9th, 1850.
	She was the mother of seventeen children;
the first five dying in infancy, and two subse-
quently. The ten surviving ones have all
come to these valleys, and there are fifty-seven
grandchildren. Her love for her children is
known by her severe exposures and ardent toil
for their comfort in the midst of her impover-
ished surroundings, and her sacrifices are in-
delibly stamped with her love and fidelity to her
holy religion. Her door has always been
opened for the reception of God's saints and
servants; and at six different times she aided
her children to go from her parental care to
gather to Zion. In the fall of 1864 her longing
desires were gratified by gathering with her
husband and remaining little ones to the bosom
of the church.  In the fall of 1865 they settled
in Harrisville, and in April 17, 1865, she joined
and was set apart as a teacher of the Relief So-
ciety organization of this place.
She was in the enjoyment of moderate health
to the day of her death, which was very sud-
den. Her youngest son going to her room at
quarter past six o'clock a. m., to ascertain the 
reason she did not arise as usual, found her
dead in bed, her husband being on a visit to 
his daughter in Cache Valley at the time.
	She died as though she was enwrapt in
balmy sleep, and without an apparent struggle;
thus passed off a faithful saint, a loving wife
and an affectionate mother to sleep in Christ,
to await the morning of the first ressurrection.
	The funeral services were held on Thursday,
June 14th, 1877. The Bishop, his counselors
and a large concourse of relatives and friends
were assembled at her funeral, and consoling
remarks were made; a very large procession
followed her remains to the grave. 
				MELISSA A. SHURTLIFF,
					Pres't Relief Society.
				JOSEPHINE TAYLOR, Sec'y.
	[Deseret News and Millennial Star please
copy.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

RECENT MISSION OF THE ELDERS
IN THE MIDDLE STATES.

	Elder Henry Grow, who returned from
his mission to the states June 12th, left
Salt Lake Lake City Nov. 1st, 1876, having
been appointed to preside over the Penn-
sylvania Mission; he arrived in Philadel-
phia Nov. 6. He went directly to the resi-
dence of his nieces Mrs. Rapp and Mrs.
Knipe; was kindly received by them, and
during his sojourn in the east made that
his home. These two ladies were also very
hospitable to Elder A. M. Musser and other
elders whom Elder Grow invited there
from time to time; though they did not re-
ceive the Gospel they were very liberal in
their views, and kind and generous in feel-
ing.
	Br. Grow traveled, visiting the different
branches, through Montgomery, Schuylkill,
Luzerne and Lancaster Counties. In Cris-
sona, Schuylkill Co., Elder Grow preached
in Odd Fellows Hall to a very large audi-
ence one evening, the next in Shenandoah,
and the following one in Lower Marion,
each time to large audiences, and the peo-
ple seemed to pay good attention. At Fish-
beck, Montgomery Co., where he preached
also, he had relatives residing; Wm. G.
Smith, a nephew, and family entertained
himself and the elders hospitably. Br.
Grow has four sisters living in Pennsylva-
nia, their children and grandchildren and
numerous other more distant relatives;
they all treated him very kindly and were
anxious to have him stay with them; he
also met many old acquaintances and school-
fellows, and made many new friends dur-
ing his stay in that country; through the
influence of his relatives and friends he
was introduced to many influential and
worthy people, with whom he conversed on
the subject of the Gospel, the interests of
Utah, her political and social condition, etc.
There was not much chance to preach, such
a spirit of opposition was manifest among
the masses, those who have no real under-
standing of Mormonism or its bearings. Br.
Grow visited relatives of Bishop Edward
Hunter in West Chester, Penn., and had a
pleasant interview with them. One of
Elder Grow's sisters, who was in poor
health, believed his testimony and received
it, and was anxious for baptism, but died
very shortly after his arrival, without hav-
ing the opportunity to be baptized. On
her deathbed she expressed the wish to
have the ordinance of baptism, and all other
work that could be done for her, adminis-
tered by proxy. Elder Grow is under the
impression that there has been some good
seed sown in that state during the mission
of the elders recently, that will in time
spring up and bear fruit.
	The Philadelphia and other newspapers
published some considerable of the elders
and their mission in that country, which of
course was something of an advertisement
for them.
	Elder A. M. Musser called upon us and
expressed himself as having had a pleasanttime in most respects, yet there was very
little opportunity to preach the Gospel, and
none whatever in Philadelphia. The people
are most anxious to learn something of the
lives of Mormon women, the Woman Ques-
tion being a popular one at the present
time.
	Elders Musser, Grow and Whitney have
published some pamphlets at their own ex-
pense, and circulated them very largely
through that country, showing forth the
faith and practices of our people. Below
we publish Elder Musser's own statement

[Column 2]

concerning the mission of himself and the
elders who went east last fall.
	"The elders sent to Pennsylvania, Dela-
ware and New Jersey at last fall Confer-
ence, reached their fields of labor in Novem-
ber. Most of them had relatives I find in
these states, by whom they were kindly
received and treated. A good many of
these, it is believed, were awakened to the
belief that there was something in "Mor-
monism" worthy of their sincere attention.
A great deal of group-preaching was done,
there being but few opportunities to hold
public meetings, because of the great pred-
judice of the clergy and others who had
the control of churches and meeting houses.
When ministers of all denominations come
to Utah they are invited to preach in our
pulpits to large and attentive audiences,
but these courtesies are rarely reciprocated
by the clergy abroad, because of their big-
otry and narrowness. In some places halls
were obtained by the elders paying the
rent. No one would tolerate preaching in
a private dwelling house, and rarely were
schoolhouses available, for the reason that
the trustees were also religious bigots.
Some of the elders were fortunate in find-
ing openings here and there for holding
discussions and public meetings, but sel-
dom could they obtain the same place the
second time. Some 4000 pamphlets and
circular letters were gratuitously distribut-
ed during the spring months of the current
year, and it is believed that before many
days the gratifying results of the prayers,
faith, zeal and love that inspired their dis-
tribution will be seen. The printed word,
thus cast upon the waters, was composed to
especially meet the needs of the people
who were being surfeited with anti-Mor-
mon perversions concerning our people and
their practices of the most glaring kind.
The public mind had been deeply embit-
tered by the monstrous falsehoods widely
circulated by the N. Y. Herald and all the
sub-prints of the country.
	"It is truly encouraging to witness the
self-sacrificing disinterested devotion of
the elders to preach the Gospel, in the face
of the wide-spread odium everywhere over-
shadowing the noble people of Utah. No
money could induce them to undertake
such missions. It is solely the sense of duty
which they owe to their fellow-man that
impels them to take their lives in their
hands, and without "purse or scrip" or at
their own personal expense, go abroad to
proclaim liberty to the captives of sin and
Satan by showing them how they can get
back into the presence and favor of God,
from whence all mankind has been ban-
ished."


[Column 1]
			VARIED THOUGHTS.

	As each day dawns, and we rise from our
beds of quiet repose, refreshed by the sweet
restorer sleep—how manifold are our
thoughts and how strangely varied! What
more rapid than untrammeled thought?
Worlds, in imagination, are created and
castles built, only to be torn down and cast
away, there to lie may be, in utter forget-
fulness.
	Sometimes on the wild wings of thought,
we are borne aloft to dizzy heights from
whence we are loth to return, and return-
ing, we find stern reality, a reminder of
what we are, and whither we are tending.
	Each day as we mingle with our fellow
beings, lessons of wisdom are constantly
before us, and it remaining with our better
judgment if we accept or refuse.
	The most daring may falter and fall by

[Column 2]
the way-side because of a want of true mor-
al courage; the most worthy and energetic
have often their efforts blunted and una-
vailing, because of some untoward circum-
stance over which they had not control, and
sometimes for the want of encouragement
and a helping hand, sink to rise no more.
	Thus in life, our highest, noblest aims,
fondest wishes are blighted and unrealized
—leaving us to conclude, that at best, we
are but creatures of circumstances.
	Yesterday, myriads of contending
thoughts filled me with joy and sorrow
alike the disposing causes before me, and
to-day, yielding to the better counselor, my
mind has been serenely calm. It is not my
wont to seek sorrow, nor would I turn aside
from those over whose heads hang dark
threatening clouds, but rather abide, if
need be, and share the sorrow and heed
the lesson it teaches. True, we instinct-
ively shrink from gloom and if left to
choice, would choose ever that which glad-
dens. Sorrows and afflictions are often
blessings in disguise, and 'twere better
even to suffer deeply and learn sympathy,
than to escape and not be able to feel for
those who do. We should be able to ex-
claim with Pope,

		"Help me to feel for others, love
			Each selfish sorrow less,
		That mercy I to others show
			Reflected happiness shall bless."

	If we sought always our own good, our
own happiness, how selfish indeed we
should be, and how narrowed our efforts
and aims. We truly fulfill the design of
our creation when we thus pervert it.
	When I remember that the world is full
of beauty created for our enjoyment by
Him, the great artist and designer, the
maker and controller of the bright starry
firmament on high, the earth, and seas and
all that in them is! how insignificant seems
ever our most lofty aspirations, and how
worse than folly our repinings. Should we
not rather bow in humility and thankful-
ness for His many mercies vouchsafed us,
assured that all is for the best.

	"What though dark clouds around us rise,
		And tempests round us gather?
	The thunderbolt which cleaves the skies
		Will bring us fairer weather.
	What though the force of fire and flood
		Makes life a scene of trial?
	God meant that man should find his good
		In paths of self denial.

	This world with all its toil and strife,
		Is nature's royal college,
	Where all the pains and ills of life
		Become our guide to knowledge.
	Up frowning steeps, down gloomy vales,
		Toward the grave descending,
	They lead us on, till death unveils
		A world of life unending.

	There are no ills by mortals borne,
		But blessings underlie them;
	No human heart by sorrows worn,
		But reaps advantage by them;
	No sickness, sorrow, pain and sighs,
		But are of heaven's designing;
	And not a cloud obscures the skies,
		But has a silver lining.
	Where rolls the wave of sin and strife,
		There streams of truth are flowing;
	Where thorns beset the path of life,
		There flowers are ever growing,
	Where clouds obscure the sun from sight,
		A rift the light is making;
	The darkest hour of all the night
		Is when the day is breaking."

	Such assurances as these are as cheering
as true, and we have but to press forward
hopefully, continually striving. Our
thoughts, desires and utterances, should
tend to all that is fine and elevating, so
that as designed, we may view and enjoy
to perfection all in this world, and at last


be worthy the sublimity and never ending
beauty, the promised joys of that which is
to come.
								H.
—Argus.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CRITICISM ON "WOMAN AND HER
				ERA."

MY DEAR MADAME:
	Allow me to return to you that priceless
book "Woman and her Era" with many
thanks. You ask me to give a few criti-
cisms on the work. This is beyond me,
for all criticism is lost in admiration!
For erudition, breadth of thought, sound
logic, and fine language, this work, in my
opinion, surpasses all writings on the wo-
man question.
The best expression of my opinion of
"Woman and her Era" should be intro-
duced into all female educational establish-
ments as a class book. * Students in every
art seek eagerly the most beautiful models,
knowing that on the perfection of the mode
their own perfection greatly depends.
Now the woman revealed to our con-
sciousness by Mrs. Farnham, is so truth-
fully perfect in every outline, that a mo-
ment's contemplation suffices to inspire
even the frivolous with a desire to approxi-
mate, if not equal its exqusite harmonies;
and we know that desire is the mother of
effort. An extract from Mr. Buckle im-
pressed me so much that I felt impelled to
make a little commentary upon it, which I
submit to your opinion. He says "our
greatest admiration should be reserved, not
for those who make the discoveries, but for
those who show HOW to make these discov-
eries." He continues to demonstrate all
that this real conviction of truth which
solves great problems before poets prove
them, belong to the deductive, or as I
think we may term it—the inspirational
form of reason,—according to Mr. Buckle,
this is the highest method of reasoning,
approaching to the Divine! In proof of
this he cites the numerous discoveries
which have emanated from the inspiration
of a woman instead of being slowly ap-
proached by a collection of facts—the in-
ductive method. Facts are necessary to
prove a truth, but they often fail to discover
it. Now this writer (and in this assertion
he is supported by all who have studied
the subject) asserts that woman reasons
wholly by the deductive method, and that
she has unknowingly, very much aided hu-
man progress by keeping fact-seeking in-
ductive man even against his will, on the 
threshold of inspiration's Temple from
whence ever and again would flash a ray of
light irradiating for a moment the dark-
ened Universe, dissolving to man's groping
vision a glimpse of the abode of Truth.
Inspiration is the highest form of reason,
and woman is essentially inspirational!
What a vista of a glorious possibility this
reveals. When freedom, legal and social,
enables woman to be truly a woman, a
highly endowed, responsible being,—not an
ornamental chattel; when a right education
trains her to ascend undaunted the steps of
inspiration's altar, to gaze upon the ra-
diant light ever glowing there, with an eye
calm and undazzled, when with a strong
arm she throws open wide the doors of
that glorious Temple, flooding the world
with the light of truth; then may we look
for regeneration, then will man enlight-
ened, exalted, and consequently purified,
become "like unto God!"
	But the prejudice of centuries cries out,
if woman is endowed with the highest

[Column 2]
reasoning method, why has she not found a
place in the ranks of discoveries? Why,
now that the professions are open to her
does she not more distinguish herelf? Why
indeed!
	These objections are easily answered.
There are three reasons, each one sufficient
to prevent the realization of woman's
grandest possibility. First, consider her
treatment for ages—forbidden to think,
how could she develop reason? Forced to
consider herself an inferior, and despise as
weaknesses her most divine gifts; was it
likely she could cultivate these gifts; under
such conditions?—To this day woman is
heavily shackled—true, brilliant-hued flow-
ers, gold and jewels sometimes hide the
chains, but the chains and their dismal
clanking is heard at every step that woman
takes. Intellectual power, the heart's tru-
est emotions, yea even the aspirations of
her soul have been, and still are fettered so
long, so cruelly fettered, that many cannot
live without their chains, and if man shews
an inclination to set her free, she rebinds
herself and her sisters—binds them hand
and foot to the iron pillar of custom, and
gives the key of the same to Mrs. Grundy,
than whom no jailor was ever more cruel!
What then can be expected of faculties
thus cramped, benumbed, palsied, atrophied;
can they instantly regain their tone and
compete with faculties that throughout ages
have enjoyed every favorable condition and
impetus? Nature answers No!
The professions are now opened to wo-
men; granted—but look at the entrances to
them. The enchanted palaces of malevo-
lent genii were not more difficult of access.
Thorns, spears, fire and taunts await the
bold invader. Yet woman has braved all
these! with super-human courage she has
trodden down the thorns, smiled at the
taunts, and thrust aside the weapons. But
who can chronicle the horror her sensitive
nature has endured, the soul shrinkings,
the concealed agonies of those glorious pio-
neers!
	Woman's position to-day is one of war-
fare; all her energies and her faculties are
concentrated to resist the enemies infinite
in number. Her vision, instead of contem-
plating the beauties of truth is ever on the
alert for an attack. Thus the force that
should enable her to soar to the highest
realms of genius is expended in fighting
those, who by all that is sacred in nature,
should be her helpers and protectors.
The third reason is in woman herself. The
idea of woman's inferiority, has been so
strenuously inculcated, so continually reit-
erated, that the women whose motto is
"Excelsior" imagine that mentally they
must become men. Fatal error!! to attain,
or rather to descend to the masculine stand-
ard, these women with a heroism and for-
titude truly feminine, endeavor to crush
their spiritual nature, to stifle their god-
like affections, to bandage their exquisite
perceptions, thus losing all their high pre-
rogatives.	*
That woman has endured the ordeal of
scorn, of ridicule, of sensuality, with its
vile jokes, of the not mis-named finishing
process, and yet to-day can show the bril-
liant array of pure, noble, self-sacrificing,
intellectual, inspired women, the boast our 
civilization, is proof enough of the great-
ness of woman! And that she has brought
to her feet her worst libelers, supplicating
her help to raise them to the higher plane
on which she stands, proves her power.
That she has gladly stretched forth her
hand to these her enemies without one word
of reproach, demonstrates her divine possi-
bilities.—Enslaved, insulted, buffetted,

[Column 3]
mocked, * yet the aureole of Divinity still
beams upon her brow to guide man heaven-
ward.
				MARIE AGNESE WALSH.
	S. L. City, April, 1877.


HYGENIC NOTES.

	Sleep is the Best Stimulant.—The best possi-
ble thing for a man to do, when he feels too weak
to carry anything through, is to go to bed and 
sleep as long as he can. This is the only recuper-
ation of brain power, the only recuperation of
brain-force; because during sleep the brain is in a
state of rest, in a condition to receive and appro-
priate nutriment from the blood.  The supply of 
new brain-substance can be had only from the 
blood, which it obtains from the food eaten pre-
viously; and the brain can best receive and appro-
priate to itself nutritive substance during a state of
sleep. Mere stimulants supply nothing in them-
selves; they goad the brain, and force it to a great-
er consumption of its substance, until it is so ex-
hausted that there may not be power enough left
to receive a supply.
	Breathing through the Mouth.—Catlin taught
the world the importance of shutting the mouth
and breathing through the nose. It would seem
that his little book entitled "Shut your Mouth"
is bearing fruit in Germany, where new thoughts
receive more attention from physicians than any-
where else in the world. Respiration by the
mouth is easier than by the nose, but not so safe.
The nose to a certain extent fits the air for enter-
ing the lungs. The sense of smell warns us 
against breathing an air loaded with poisonous
vapors. The moisture of the nasal cavities to
some extent saturates the air and makes it less ir-
ritating to the throat and larynx. The mucous of
the nasal passage and the hairs catch the dust be-
fore it goes far enough to harm. On the other
hand, breathing through the mouth dries the
throat, and in children may cause false croup, ca-
tarrh, aud it may so affect the Eustachian tube as
to cause injury to the ear and deafness.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To Preserve Fruit for Years.—Take wide-
mouthed bottles and fill them with currants, cher-
ries, gooseberries, raspberries, or strawberries.
Cover the mouths with thin muslin, and place
them in a kettle of warmish water, not above the
necks of the bottles. Place them over the fire,
and boil for twenty minntes after the water first
bubbles. Now take them out and cork tightly,
putting sealing-wax made of resin and tallow—
two parts resin to one of tallow—all over the
corks and necks of the bottles. Set them in a 
cool dry closet in a cellar, heads downward, and
the fruit will retain its flavor perfectly.
	Cauliflower Salad.—Boil a cauliflower in salted
water till tender, but not overdone; when cold cut
it up neatly in small sprigs. Beat np together
three tablespoonfuls of oil and one tablespoonful
of tarragon vinegar, with pepper and salt to taste;
rub the dish very slightly with garlic, arrange the
pieces of cauliflower on it, strew over them some
capers, a little tarragon, chervil, and parsley, all
finely minced, and the least bit of dried thyme and 
marjoram powdered. Pour the oil and vinegar
over, and serve.


PARTIAL culture runs to the ornate; ex-
treme culture to simplicity.
	"I do not wish your assertions to pass for
truth, madame." "You can easily prevent
it, sir, by repeating them yourself."
	"I can't say I admire your style of act-
ing," said a landlady to a strolling player,
when he ran away without paying his bill.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
A WORD TO THE YOUNG PEOPLE
OF ZION.

	Do we as Latter-day Saints, as sons and 
daughters of God, do we realize, and feel
sufficiently thankful for the blessings we
enjoy? Do we fully understand why we 
were placed here upon this earth? Was it
to spend out time in idleness, or in a light
and frivolous manner? Was it to employ
ourselves in quarreling one, with another,
in slandering our neighbors, and in dis-
obeying the commands of God by violating
the Sabbath and profaning His Holy Name?
No! Heaven forbid that we should waste
our valuable time in such a manner. We
were sent here to improve ourselves, to 
store our minds with useful knowledge,
that we may become refined and educated
men and women. And yet do we not often,
very often speak in a sneering way about
our neighbors—say things about them that
are liable to injure them in the estimation
of others? Do we not sometimes violate
the Sabbath? Often in what we consider
very trifling matters, nevertheless, it is a 
sin, little as we think it.
	Have we not all heard the name of the
Lord profaned? do we not know how des-
picable a person is who takes the name of
God in vain? How can we think that He
will bless us, how can we expect him to
give us what we ask for when we are every
day, yes, every hour, breaking his com-
mandments? For does not the good Book
say, "The prayer of the wicked availeth
nothing?" Therefore, let us seek to im-
prove and cultivate ourselves, and try to do
right in all our transactions with our fellow-
creatures, obey our parents and teachers,
and by so doing we will gain the love and
respect of all who know us, and also, what
is of more worth than the greatest of
worldly honors, the approbation of God our
Father.
	CHARLOTTE M. MAXWELL.
Spring Valley, Nevada, July 13, 1877.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

 If we attain the position of true mothers
in Israel we will have a great deal to ac-
complish.  In a family capacity we have
our children to watch over and teach.
Mothers never think your boys and girls
too old to be taught and instructed; we can
teach them a great deal by example; never
say or do in the presence of your children
what you would not like to see in them.
Teach them the principles of the Gosepl by
example as well as precept; let them un-
derstand when they are eight years old that
it is their duty to be baptized for the re-
mission of their sins, and become mem-
bers in the Church of Jesus Christ.  Teach
them to be strictly honest and truthful.
Teach your children the law of tithing, and 
let them see you observe it in every partic-
ular yourself. Sisters of the Relief Society,
these are small things, but they are of
great importance.  Do we not all wish our
children to be saved in the Kingdom of
God? Then let us lay the foundation for
them to build upon.
 As mothers in Israel, we should also be
mindful of our duties in our ward districts;
to watch over and care for the poor and
aged; let us render all possible assistance
wherever it is needed.  Comfort those who
are called to mourn, and be always ready
to lend a helping hand to the weak. We
need not go far from home to seek for op-
portunities to do good.  I know the major-


ity of the sisters are striving to do the best
they can, and without doubt, we have
among us the best people on the face of the
earth; but still, sometimes I think we
could improve very greatly in some respects.
We should be charitable toward each other,
if we find one weak in faith, try to
strengthen that one, and show by our ac-
tions that we are willing to help them
along. Let us cease fault-finding, and light
speaking and everything that has the ap-
pearance of evil. Let our light so shine
that all may see we are of a truth mothers
in Israel.
	I think every mother should have the
EXPONENT in her house, I read it with
pleasure and wish it success.
	MARTHA WILLIAMS.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	WE are doing a great work, if some few
thoughtless or unreflecting women are
awakened to definite views and higher
ambitions and braver efforts.
		—Prof. Maria Mitchell.
	EVERY opportunity for new insight into
truth must be valued, for what is genius
but the awakened soul? the universa with 
in finding recognition without. These bene-
ficial to society are people who help persons
to attain that measure of being of which
they are capable.
		—Mary N. Adams.
	LET us give to women such training,
physically, industrially, intellectually and
spiritually, that we shall shame the words
"superfluous" out of the vocabulary as de-
scriptive of women. And this will help
men, and elevate them, quite as much as
any special work which might be done for
them.
		—Mary A. Livermore.


<til paymentsjan="" be.="" made,="" monthly,="" quart="" fcrjyi="" of,="" six="" monthly."="" priceq'lo="" and="" no="" interest="" charged.,="" send="" to="" lia="" for="" catalogue="" further="" information.="" ‘="" ,="" ywomansinommirfsion<="" i'!‘ttouse="" vi="" ()="" 1(="" v="" t="" yn!‘=""> PIANOS& ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
			           for five years, on
                                     INSTALMENTS
                                  OF ONE, TWO OR
                                      THREE YEARS
       Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
   monthly. Prices low and no interest charged.  Send to
us for catalogue and further information. 
								CALDER & CARELESS.

               		WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
                 IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
                               WOOLEN GOODS,
                                     SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS,
   DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
      FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
         BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
            LADIES' JACKETS,
              STOCKINGS, YARNS,
                 SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
                   LATEST STYLES OF
                      FANCY WORSTED TIES,
   Men's Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter, Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider Vine-
gar, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spoo[-] Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue,
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of Jamaica Ginger
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore
      Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands, Sole
	  Leather and other  Trunks, Gents' Fine
             Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
                  Table Salt, Band Boxes and
                              Dixie Cotton 	
          HOME-MADE WOOLEN BATTING,
                NEW ZEALAND FLAX SEED. 	

				DAVID JAMES,
               (Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
             Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
                              AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
             Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
    Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City. 

			F. AUERBACH & BRO.
      55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
				 - : 0 : -
              Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
                       Staple and Fancy
			   DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
   Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
     and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
                     Pipes, Cutlery, Etc., 
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
     ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottomo Prices at
     the Old Fashioned House.

			     THE FINE ARTS. 
	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G.M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are put at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
		Send your orders to		C.R. SAVAGE,
							Salt Lake City, Utah. 

				Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
 Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium.  Do not forget
					17 East Temple street.
		 TEMPLE OF FASHION. 
    Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a 
call.

				  Z. C. M. I. 
                 Wholesale and Retail Dealing
                              in all kinds of
        DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
            HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
               GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
                   STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
              AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

			      TEASDEL'S
    THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
                       FOR THE LADIES,
  AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
     LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
       DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

                           H. DINWOODEY
         WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
                              FURNITURE
          SPRINGS BEDS, WIRE MATTRESES,
                    Feathers, Wall Paper
                                   AND
                       BABY CARRIAGES.
      75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 6.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1877.		No. 6.


[For the EXPONENT.
THOUGHTS AND MEMORIES OF A
SUMMER HOUR.

Mem'ry is busy in her haunted bow'r
	Clad with bright thoughts the senses to beguile;
So softly falls the touch of passing hour,
	That dreamy fancies linger near the while.

I hear soft voices mnrmur'ng low and sweet;
	I feel the touch of gentle hands again;
And in the shadow of some lone retreat,
	I e'en forgot I ever suffer'd pain.

Tears fall and mingle with the pearly dew,
	And flow'rs spring up afresh where all was drear;
And something whispers of a life more true,
	Where perfect love will reign, devoid of fear.

There seems a rapture in the summer breeze,
	Borne from some region ever bright and fair;
How lovingly it plays amid the trees,
	Breathing "enchantment in the azure air."

O memory of the years now past away,
	Buried and dead, but living still in thought;
Nature was then as prescient as to-day,
	And her conceptions were as grandly wrought.

Earth rob'd herself as queenly then, as now,
	And summer mantled hill, and field, and plain,
And garlanded with flow'rs her blushing brow,
	And wreath'd her sceptre with the golden grain.

Yes, other summers have in glory woke,
	And sunshine flooded nature with its kiss;
But time's relentless hand the spell has broke,
	Though earth were in an ecstacy of bliss.

In the weird rustle of the falling leaves,
	There is a sadness touching to the heart
For summer her departing glory grieves,
	Yet nobly doth she with her treasures part.

She sighs her requiem to the passing breeze;
	All nature joins her in the mournful strain;
A thousand echoes whisper in the trees,
	Repeating o'er and o'er the sad refrain.

And is there in our hearts no sad regret,
	No mem'ries of the last year's falling leaves?
Shall we the sweetness of the past forget?
	Or glean, and garner it in mem'ry's sheaves.

Where fancy's magle wand can recreate,
	And live again the happy seasons o'er,
Food for the mind, 'gainst bitter, adverse fate,
	Harvest of thoughts to gladden evermore.

	E. B. Wells	EMILE.
Salt Lake City, August 11, 1877.


[Column 1]
<f -="" writtenoe="" master="" a,npeps0n,i7="" '.<'="" by="" e="" e.="" .snftw="" :="" ,="" .ms="" :xt="" s:="" t1".="" 'i="" i'm="" ..="" u="" r.in="" aljour4="" assembliesy.ww="" praises="" of="" the="" lord="" goa="" pf="" ii="" his="" spirit="" is="" soal="" our..,pptertain-="" monts-the="" .interest="" .'kingdom1!the="" linceniiyo="" ail="" our="" efforts.="" .="" ;="" god,who="" inhabits="" etefnity-rwho="" dwells="" in="" fulness:of="" light—-who="" .-speaks;="" ppdjall="" intelligences="" in’the="" qourfavoptbighgive="" audience:="" ....="" b;:="" he="" isthe="" god="" .abiham,="" isaac.jacob,="" joseph,="" brigham="" and="" oc="" all.="" true="" ;latter-="" day.saints.="" -t="" blessed="" are="" those="" thafc.tr="" us="" tin,="" hlm-r-,who="" obey="" voice="" fservants—who="" re-="" joice="" purity="" ordinances,="" justice="" equity="" statutes.="" sent="" angel="" moroni="" to="" announce="" 4="" joseph="" introduction="" thp="" dispensation="" fulness="" times':="" sent'="" peter,="" james="" johh="" commit="" id="" nim,="" tii6="" keys="" kingdom="" heavo.="" w15;="" ‘="" s="" i="" )="" pr="" through="" he,="" revealed-="" prin-="" ciples="" yighjeousnessj,="" laid="" foun-="" da.tion="">PSALM: FOR THE TWENTY-FOURTH
			OF JULY, 1877.

	WRITTEN FOR MASTER ANDERSON,
			BY E. R. SNOW.

<f -="" writtenoe="" master="" a,npeps0n,i7="" '.<'="" by="" e="" e.="" .snftw="" :="" ,="" .ms="" :xt="" s:="" t1".="" 'i="" i'm="" ..="" u="" r.in="" aljour4="" assembliesy.ww="" praises="" of="" the="" lord="" goa="" pf="" ii="" his="" spirit="" is="" soal="" our..,pptertain-="" monts-the="" .interest="" .'kingdom1!the="" linceniiyo="" ail="" our="" efforts.="" .="" ;="" god,who="" inhabits="" etefnity-rwho="" dwells="" in="" fulness:of="" light—-who="" .-speaks;="" ppdjall="" intelligences="" in’the="" qourfavoptbighgive="" audience:="" ....="" b;:="" he="" isthe="" god="" .abiham,="" isaac.jacob,="" joseph,="" brigham="" and="" oc="" all.="" true="" ;latter-="" day.saints.="" -t="" blessed="" are="" those="" thafc.tr="" us="" tin,="" hlm-r-,who="" obey="" voice="" fservants—who="" re-="" joice="" purity="" ordinances,="" justice="" equity="" statutes.="" sent="" angel="" moroni="" to="" announce="" 4="" joseph="" introduction="" thp="" dispensation="" fulness="" times':="" sent'="" peter,="" james="" johh="" commit="" nim,="" tii6="" keys="" kingdom="" heavo.="" w15;="" ‘="" s="" i="" )="" pr="" through="" he,="" revealed-="" prin-="" ciples="" yighjeousnessj,="" laid="" foun-="" da.tion="">	In all our assemblies we will chant the
praises of the Lord God of Hosts.
	His spirit is the soul of our entertain-
ments—the interest of His kingdom the
incentive of all our efforts.
	God, who inhabits eternity—who dwells
in the fulness of light—who speaks and all
the intelligences in the courts on high give
audience:
	He is the God of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob,
Joseph, Brigham, and of all true Latter-
day Saints.
	Blessed are those that trust in Him—who
obey the voice of His servants—who re-
joice in the purity of His ordinances, and
the justice and equity of His statutes.
	He sent the angel Moroni to announce to
Joseph the introduction of the Dispensation
of the fulness of times: He sent Peter,
James and John to commit to him the keys
of the Kingdom of heaven.

[Column 2]
<f -="" writtenoe="" master="" a,npeps0n,i7="" '.<'="" by="" e="" e.="" .snftw="" :="" ,="" .ms="" :xt="" s:="" t1".="" 'i="" i'm="" ..="" u="" r.in="" aljour4="" assembliesy.ww="" praises="" of="" the="" lord="" goa="" pf="" ii="" his="" spirit="" is="" soal="" our..,pptertain-="" monts-the="" .interest="" .'kingdom1!the="" linceniiyo="" ail="" our="" efforts.="" .="" ;="" god,who="" inhabits="" etefnity-rwho="" dwells="" in="" fulness:of="" light—-who="" .-speaks;="" ppdjall="" intelligences="" in’the="" qourfavoptbighgive="" audience:="" ....="" b;:="" he="" isthe="" god="" .abiham,="" isaac.jacob,="" joseph,="" brigham="" and="" oc="" all.="" true="" ;latter-="" day.saints.="" -t="" blessed="" are="" those="" thafc.tr="" us="" tin,="" hlm-r-,who="" obey="" voice="" fservants—who="" re-="" joice="" purity="" ordinances,="" justice="" equity="" statutes.="" sent="" angel="" moroni="" to="" announce="" 4="" joseph="" introduction="" thp="" dispensation="" fulness="" times':="" sent'="" peter,="" james="" johh="" commit="" nim,="" tii6="" keys="" kingdom="" heavo.="" w15;="" ‘="" s="" i="" )="" pr="" through="" he,="" revealed-="" prin-="" ciples="" yighjeousnessj,="" laid="" foun-="" da.tion="">	Through Joseph, He revealed the prin-
ciples of righteousness, and laid the foun-
dation of a government of peace.
	Though small in the beginning, and a
theme of derision among the scribes and
pharisees of modern times, it is truly "a
marvelous work and a wonder:" It has
spread from nation to nation, and is now
arousing the attention of the high ones of
the earth.
	It is gathering the honest in heart from
every clime—the spirit of God is in their
hearts, and the strong cords of faith and
obedience draw them together.
	They come, not laden with the gold of
Ophir—they come not decked with the
glittering ornaments and splendid attire of
worldly grandeur; but through the tender
mercies of Him who "tempers the storm to
the shorn lamb," although destitute of
Mammon's treasures, they come richly sup-
plied with the more requisite capital for
strengthening the stakes of Zion, and build-
ing the Temples of our God, even the brain,
the bone and the sinew.
	Through the blessings of the Most High
on the labors of the husbandman, the
parched and sterile soil has become produc-
tive and yields an abundance of the rich-
est products.
	The products of Utah are abundantly la-
den with material for the finest and richest
fabrics; the most skillful artisans are here;
and only united effort is wanting to ensure
permanent success; and, ere long, the
faithful in Zion will be clothed in garments
more beautiful than those of earthly princes,
and "the beauty thereof will be the work
of their own hands."
	Let us all, old and young—parents and
children, take hold with our might, for the
time has come when those who profess to
be saints, must be saints in very deed.
	There is a furnace in Zion—the fire there-
of has already commenced to burn, and the
heat will increase until iniquity shall be
cleansed from our midst.
	Then will the treasures of the earth, the
treasures of the deep, and the treasures of
the heavens above, be poured out in great
abundance.
	Then will the beauty of Zion shine forth
clear as the sun at noonday: She will arise
terrible in might—the glory of God will fill
her courts, and celestial beings will minis-
ter in her holy places.
	Glory, honor, praise and adoration be un-
to our God.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MISS Rose Hall, of Middlesex, England,
has allowed her goods to be distrained for
Queen's taxes, as a practical protest against
the exclusion of women householders from
the Parliamentary franchise. Twelve sil-
ver forks were seized and put up at auc-
tion.
	MRS. M. B. C. Slade is to be the editor of
a new monthly magazine, entitled "Good
Times," which will be issued August 1st,
devoted to entertaining, amusing and in-
structive dialogues, recitations, declama-
tions, and selections; tableaux; motion-


songs, and other musical varieties, for exhi-
bitions and public exercises.

	MISS Bettie Van Lew occasioned a slight
flutter in the office of the City Collector,
day before yesterday, says the Richmond,
(Va.) "Enquirer." Her appearance there
was perhaps explained by the following in-
dorsement on a paper which she passed
over to the Collector, inclosing $200, the
amount of her tax bill: "Richmond, June
29.—Taxes paid under protest, having bit-
terly realized the need of the ballot, and
being, as a woman, denied that right.—
Elizabeth L. Van Lew." This Miss Bettie
Van Lew is the plucky Republican post-
mistress of Richmond, Va., lately dis-
placed by President Hayes.—Ex.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	DR. SCHLIEMANN; the celebrated explor-
er of Trojan and Greek mines, is expected
to visit America.

	AN EXPEDITION, consisting of Lieut.
Wood, U. S. Army, and Prof. Taylor of the
University of Chicago, with some assist-
ants, has gone to Alaska, to ascertain the
height of Mt. Elias.

	A STATUE of King Alfred the Great was
unveiled at Wantage, England, on Satur-
day, July 31st, by the Prince of Wales. It
is sculptured in marble, and was executed
by Count Gleichen, the queen's cousin, at a
cost of about $10,000. Wantage is the place
where King Alfred was born.

	IT SEEMS to be conceded, that among the 
members of Parliament most likely to be-
come future Premiers of the British gov-
ernment, is Mr. Chamberlain who, having
accumulated a fortune in manufactures, is
now devoting his fine abilities to public af-
fairs. Just now the most rising member of
the House of Commons is Mr. Leonard
Courtney, one of the ablest and most schol-
arly of the leader-writers on the London
"Times." Both Mr. Chamberlain and Mr.
Courtney have distinguished themselves by
their advocacy of the Woman Suffrage Bill,
which seems to be rapidly gaining strength
in England.—Ex.

	The laboratories for women at the Insti-
tute of Technology are well worth the at-
tention of those who are interested in the
higher education of women. They were
established about six months ago, at the re-
quest and with the assistance of the Wo-
man's Education Association, and are de-
signed "to afford facilities for the advanced
study of Chemical Analysis, Mineralogy,
and Chemistry, as related to Vegetable and
Animal Physiology and to the Industrial
Arts." Any subject may be studied sepa-
rately; there are no classes, each pupil
working by herself under the immediate
and practical instruction of Prof. John M.
Ordway or of Mrs. Richards. The micro-
scopic work, and physiological chemistry,
seem especially adapted to women, and
offer honorable employment to those who
are skilled.—"Boston Correspondent Wor-
cester Spy."


42		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 2]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on
Saturday, August 4th, was largely attend-
ed. President M. I. Horne conducted the
meeting in her usual dignified manner, and
after the customary exercises and reading
of minutes by the young lady secretaries,
Mrs. Horne addressed the sisters in an ear-
nest and impressive manner, exhorting
them to live their religion, attend to all du-
ties, whether at home, or in whatever posi-
tion they might be called to fill. Counselor
Zina D. Young related the outlines of her
recent trip to Bear Lake valley; alluded
to the smiling farms and fields of grain,
and said that although the grasshoppers
had been plentiful there, yet the people still
had an abundant harvest. Mrs. Dr. Hard-
ing, a lady from St. Louis, Mo., who was
present, made some remarks upon what
she had observed here in Salt Lake City,
and the great kindness and courtesy which
had been extended to her by the Latter-day
Saint sisters. Mrs. M. R. Thompson spoke
upon the the great trials and persecutions
through which the saints had passed, and
the blessings which were in store for the
faithful. Mrs. E. S. Barney made some
good remarks, and read a chapter from the
"Women of Mormondom." Some busi-
ness was transacted and the meeting ad-
journed to the regular time. President
M. I. Horne announced that it was expect-
ed some of the brethren of the First Presi-
dency would be present at the next meet-
ing.

	MONROE, SEVIER Co., July 19, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	There is a Relief Society in this place in
pretty good condition, under the presiden-
cy of Mrs. Clarinda Washburn, who is alive
to the duties of her office. Although we
are a long way from the seat of govern-
ment of the Church, yet we rejoice in the
same truths of the Gospel; are very glad to
hear the good tidings the servants of God
bring from time to time. We have just
had a two days' Conference in this county,
received much good counsel, and been more
fully organized in the priesthood, and trust
under the blessings of God to be able to do
more in the future than in the past for the
building up of the kingdom of God. We
are a small community in this place, but
when the counsel of our venerable and be-
loved president came, for the sisters to store
up grain, we went to work with a will and
cast in our mite. We are also trying to
do the best we can to help roll on the great,
grand cause in other ways. Please pardon
us for not communicating with you before,
but will strive to keep you better informed
in the future. The instructions and gen-
eral information we get through the EXPO-
NENT we hail with delight .
	We remain yours truly,
			C. WASHBURNE, President,
					C. COOPER, Secretary.

		ENTERPRISE, MORGAN Co.,
						July 28, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Enterprise having become a ward in the
organization of the Morgan County Stake
of Zion, the ladies of this place, who have
heretofore formed a part of the Peterson
Relief Society, under the presidency of
Mrs. Ann Peterson, met on Sunday eve-
ning, July 22d, according to appointment
and direction of the Bishop, J. K. Hall,

[Column 2]
and organized the Enterprise Ward Relief
Society. Mrs. Margaret Green, being
unanimously voted in as president, chose
for her counselors Mrs. Emma Croft and
Mrs. Mary Hall. The organization was
completed with a Secretary, Treasurer and
a corps of Teachers. The Bishop and his
counselors then gave much good instruc-
tion, explaining the object of Relief Socie-
ties, and the manner and spirit in which
the meetings should be conducted.
	Hoping that God will bless our Society
and labors, and the labors of all who are
working for the advancement of truth and
righteousness upon the earth; and that the
EXPONENT may continue to be a welcome
visitor to our meetings, realizing that we
have derived much lasting good from its
pages, we subscribe ourselves,
	Your sisters in the covenant of peace.
		MARGARET GREEN, President,
				EMMA CROFT, Secretary.

				BEAVER, July 10th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It has been some time since I wrote you,
although my heart is with my good sisters
in this Latter-day work, yet my means are
limited. I feel that myself and all that I 
possess is on the altar. I was down at St.
George to the April Conference, and en-
joyed it very much. My husband and my-
self were down since, and commenced the
work for our dead. My heart is filled to
overflowing when I contemplate the great
plan of redemption, and the great privi-
leges we have that no other people have
ever had. The saints are being endowed
with keys and powers in the temple of the
Lord, and the evil one is raging outside,
knowing his time is short. I felt as though
I would like to live there. The Kingdom
of God is rolling, and the puny arm of man
cannot stop it. Do the Latter-day Saints
realize the responsibilities resting upon
them, and the days in which we are living?
We have no time to trifle away.
	Our Relief Society meets regularly and a
good spirit generally prevails. We are in-
tending to build a rock granary and store
for home products, and do all we can for
the Sanpete Temple. The weather is very
warm here, and there is a great deal of
sickness among children.
	Maria Louise, daughter of Amasa Lyman
and formerly wife of Elder Wm. Clayton,
died here a few days ago. When she was
brought to death's door, I was told she be-
gan to ask what chance there was for her,
after pursuing the course she had taken.
	I remain your sister in the covenant,
						RUTH W. TYLER.

	The 20th Ward branch of the Relief So-
ciety has lately been reorganized, and is
now in successful operation, and, we trust,
CO-OPERATING with all other branches of the
Society, whose motives and efforts are to
accomplish good and assist the great Latter-
day work. We hold our meetings once in
two weeks—a working meeting and a
speaking or testimony meeting alternately.
Our teachers are energetic, earnest women,
and we have a goodly number of lively,
diligent members in our Society. Our ob-
ject is to make ourselves useful in looking
after and relieving the wants of the poor,
and also to aid in every enterprise which
the women of the Latter-day Saints are
called to engage in, such as assisting the
brethren in saving means for building Tem-
ples, storing up grain for times of scarcity,
promoting home industries, sustaining

[Column 3]
home productions and all these great co-op-
erative schemes. On the 13th of April last
we had a feast prepared for the poor, the
aged and infirm of the Ward, and a most
enjoyable time was spent by all who partici-
pated. Circumstances prevented our Bish-
op, Brother John Sharp, from meeting with
us, but his counselors, Brothers Dunbar and
Allen, and also Brothers C. R. Savage and
C. W. Stayner favored us with their pres-
ence, and assisted with appropriate hymns,
songs and music in cheering the hearts of
our aged and afflicted brethren and sisters.
The meeting was adjourned for one year.
In the evening a pleasant and very sociable
party was given for the younger members
of the ward.
	Mrs. Annie Savage, President,
	"	Jane Miller,		} Counselors.
	"	Harriet Lewis,	}
	"	Elizabeth Mathews, Treasurer.
	Miss Sarah Napper, Secretary,
	Mrs. Sarah Dover, Ass't Sec'y.

		FILLMORE CITY, Aug. 7th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	With pleasure I send you a report of our
second Annual Fair, held on the 24th of
July, 1877, by the Ladies of Fillmore,
which added great interest to the pleasures
of that memorable day, and all who partici-
pated in the day's recreation expressed en-
tire satisfaction with the articles on exhibi-
tion, as they were almost exclusively home
manufacture, and the handiwork of the la-
dies of the Relief Society—carpets, quilts,
rugs, knitting, netting, needlework of all
kinds; fancy articles, such as wax, zephyr
and hair flowers; bead work, mats, baskets,
and indeed almost all articles, both useful
and ornamental, were tastefully arranged
through the different apartments of the
State House, which was profusely decora-
ted with flowers and evergreens.
	The lively strains of music, and the
merry voice of song were heard at inter-
vals during the day, while the constant de-
mand for refreshments, so courteously
served by the ladies, did credit to that de-
partment. Everything passed off harmo-
niously, each countenance stamped with an
air of freedom, coinciding with the memo-
ries of the day.
	The object of the Fair was to exhibit be-
fore the young, such articles of home in-
dustry, as will lead to the cultivation of
taste and refinement, and for the more ex-
tensive promotion of home-manufacture,
which we are so urgently requested to sus-
tain; also to procure means for the storing
of grain, and for establishing sericulture
more permanently, as well as to raise funds
for distributing necessaries to those needing
assistance.
	Financially and satisfactorily our humble
Fair proved a complete success, as will
show by a profit realized of $160, (one hun-
dred and sixty dollars,) to add to our treas-
ury. The sisters in this branch of the Re-
lief Society are energetic and willing to
respond to the various duties devolving
upon them, and as we now have the privi-
lege of renewing our covenants, feel to act
with unceasing diligence in the great work
we have espoused.
								D. K.


"A teacher asked his class to explain the
difference between "dear" and "deer."
One bright little fellow exclaimed, "One is
a biped the other is a quadruped."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		43


[For the EXPONENT.
				FAMINE. 

	Oh, sisters rouse[-] and sleep no more,
	A warning voice is at the door!
	Shall Famine be a welcome guest
	Where erst with plenty all were blest?

	Shall this gaunt being look upon
	Our happy children, sparing none?
	Shall this dire skeleton sit down,
	And we abide its fearful frown?

	Oh no! oh no! We still have power
	To make stern Famine fairly cower,
	And take its journey to a land
	That has not known a guiding hand.

	For we've been warned, and warned again,
	That Famine, such as ne'er had been,
	Should spread destruction round the ones
	That gave no heed to inspir'd tongues.

	So store up now the golden grain,
	And save yourselves from future pain;
	For many unto you shall come
	For work, for food, for peace and home.

	Go glean the wheat, you maidens fair,
	And for the days of want prepare:
	Lay up this treasure while there's time,
	Nor bow, nor bend at Fashion's shrine.

	Nor let the pride of Babylon
	Secure the wheat your labor won:
	Save up the fruit, save up the grain,
	That you God's blessing may obtain.
							EMILY B. SPENCER.
St. George, 1877.


<i uoikiit',?’!="" good="" wqman="" :ja,="" a="" .jewel="" of="" far,="" more="" s'jtiianrll="" '‘else="" we="" "may="" conceive="" $f.="" r9nyife,v(inbthef,="" v3ter..6r="" friend,="" if="" m.her="" aims,="" gen="" lie,="" an.,forgiving="" in="" hen="" manner,'="" self-saca’ifictng="" yet="" self-reliant,="" he="" isalo9ciety="" 'a="" refiner="" ail.="" infllittlees,="" 'anrnainerlt,="" treasure.="" '“hufifher="" education,="" her'="" early="" training="" ll)s,gehted,="" abd'she="" iw="" allowed'="" to="" single="" wittf-proiiiiscuous="" company="" orcompanlons?,="" ®wh<5&="" tdlhdfc="" and’="" hearts="" havd="" been'="" neglfict-="" -t'dierhvliblo'future="" will="" bo1="" maimed="" not="" avholly'blighled="" by="" the="" contact.="" hence="" ineeessitjn.'df="" and="" proper="" training1="" daughters="" to:="" fit="" thend="" for="" future="" usefulness.="" womans="" has="" h,="" glorious="" mission="" to'fulfill,="" janln1)="" important="" duty="" perform,="" her="" nighegt="" attainments="" designed'byllifii="" who.="" gave="" her,="" being="" atfficapabilities!="" intended="" pro="" nerkelf1="" wilh="" fho="" necessary="" qualifier-="" rtl<p?t'="" ,j="" °lf="" atylfei'kho'1s="" so'="" mrddr="" herself="" as="" mpanibahle.find="" lend="" charm="" that="" tfiho'vw="" wliicli="" she="" be’eh="" chbseh="" r="" si(l5j'making="" it="" iho’most="" atraetivo="" pos-="" isibl’e,’so’lliftvhe,="" husband,="" comparf-="" itdft'ouher="" choice="" may’love="" dwell="" there-="" aid,b'ecaus(fwdf="" liis="" hohie;="" betng-'a="" peaceful="" -oiabitatiorf="" to-tvliicli="" may-always="" retire="" wherp="" the-f="" perplfexing':="" duties'="" his="" daily="" nroutine="" bf="" business="" is="" over,="" and:="" bore="" -freshed:by;="" home="" comforts.="" such="" an="" wife,="" if<herac0inpaniofi-ba="" intelligent="" appro-="" iciati.ye;hwiu="" be="" him="" prized="" aboyo="" rubies.="" woiftshejljq="" qloja;="" mother,-="" duties;="" arc="" 4mmpasqrably="" increasedpanu="" necessity="" mental="" culture="" two-fold.="" then="" assigned="" responsible="" task="" fashion-="" iing'andrii&ldlng-the="" impressible="" minds="" llier="" children,:andi="" leading="" them="" stop="" step="" -taiyearsiof-thbughtrand="" discretion,="" fur-="" theriwhehdhcy="" go="" fotth:irtto="" busy,="" world="" afid="" .itsi..="" temptations,="" the'="" impress="" fhanduthat="" molded="" perceptible.="" hoiyi-closely="" must="" .pher..="" guard,="" thorn,="" taitliq3iwp.tp]i="" thmiunalftj="" desires,="" nat-="" ural="" bent="" inclinations="" each,="" i="" properly="" direct.="" fqr.="" future.="" ;="" mqther="" may="" truly="" likened="" a.teacher="" or="" master-workman="" whoso="" plastic="" hand="" hath="" moldpd="" reared="" treasures'to="" man="" womanhood,="" can="" offer="" th'em="" with="" firmness="" ebarad-="" ter="" correctness="" of'principle'that="" shall="" render="" objects="" interest="" tq="" those="" whom="" they="" mingle.="" nor="" does="" end="" here—she="" pre-="" pared="" various="" events="" conditions="" 'of="" life,="" mast="" also="" lor="" never-ending="" eternity.="" mother's="" prayer,="" n="" mother’s="" wise="" pious="" counsel,="" though="" perhaps="" often="" neglected,="" seemingly="" for-="" gotten="" busy="" round="" life'with="" its="" turmoil="" bustle,="" willbe="" remembered="" lovingly="" cherished="" when="" sorrows="" dis-="" appointments="" come="" disease="" prostrates.="" gentle="" forbearance,="" look="" anxiety="" mingled="" moth="" er’s="" love,="" return="" memory="" serve="" tq,.="" cheer'="" crushed="" spirit,="" have="" years="" agono="" winged="" flight="" ip="" realms="" bliss.="" here="" again,="" argument="" infa.="" yor="" woman’s="" education="" hign="" moral="" attainments.="" l,‘not="" enough="" weman="" accomplished="" only.="" masters="" mtislt="" drawing="" all="" delight-="" ’="" ful="" acquirements="" which="" clety="" fascinating="" agreeable,="" and'kho="" happy;="" these="" are="" ri="" few="" only.1="" btijt="" elevating="" holy="" inspiration="" ndiisic="" should="" added="" united="" the’morc="" solid="" foundation'of="" yill="" :="" secure="" 'perfect="" womanhood.="" then-="" able="" weep="" who="" weep,="" rejoice="" glad.="" life="" pleasant="" duties="" well="" performed,="" :the="" charmed="" circle="" friends,="" family="" called="" part="" on="" earth,="" shoswill="" finished="" great="" work="" asslgneddier="" finally="" enter="" into="" lifp="" joys="" await="" tjie="" faitiu="" m'll="" "="" 1="" jr="" .="" uin="" sister="" if.="" .well.="" object="" jjqve="" delight="" circle;="" kno(w.="" "with="" manner="" becomes="" dispenser="" sunshine="" everywhere.="" tv="" oman="" only="" become="" very="" dear.="" true,="" noble="" woman,="" whose="" mind="" active,1="" alive="" dll="" that'is="" ennobling,="" allow="" ’even="" moment,="" petty="" thoughts="" aud="" meannesses="" place="" heart.="" shrinks="" from,="" almost="" tremblingly="" shuns="" slanderer="" would="" blast="" some="" fair="" name,="" looks="" pity="" lupon="" even="" jealousy="" ormal="" ice="" mar="" purity="" soul="" character.="" feels,="" were="" sad="" sorrow="" cognizant="" real="" baneful="" existence,="" uncontrollable="" desire="" snatch="" from="" utter="" woe="" awaits="" them,="" calm="" reflection="" points="" gross="" errors="" committed="" remorse="" humiliates.="" repentance="" welly="" confession="" nobio="" beauti-="" ful,="" but="" far="" hotter="" err,="" so="" keep="" heart="" pure="" cheerful!="" view="" qualifica-="" tions="" requirements="" any="" one="" longer="" doubt="" educated="" properly,="" fitted="" really="" high="" position,="" she.="" js..="" ox="" pected="" fill="" through="" life?="" too="" much="" importance="" cannot="" given="" subject,="" earlier="" better,="" this="" lies="" present="" personal="" coul="" sideration,="" mainly="" individual="" interest;="" every="" community="" alike1b6u-="" oerfied="" benefited="" .youth,="" .male="" female,="" of.="" a‘com-="" munity="" inltime="" comprise="" and.become="" itself;="" a&="" after="" another="" departs="" whomow="" it,="" and.="" their.un-="" pass="" hands.,="" .that"="" after;="" perform="" it?="" possible="" better="" faithfully;="" now="" lastly="" least,="" in-whose="" careare="" wo;="" put="" trust?="" wo="" commit="" precious="" charge?="" our="" parents="" teachers="" chiefly="" restyubut="" contribute="" work".="" each="" allof="" us="" exert="" infllittlee="" for.good="" evil,and="" since="" case;="" measure="" re-="" sponsible="" fob="" 'do="" exert?="" so,="" nof="" unite="" further="" grand="" achievement-dbo="" bducatlon="" wo-="" man—-and="" to'surround="" with-="" atmos-="" phere="" refinement,="" sq.="" -she="" -may="" highest="" aim="" and.mission="" oh="" ,usefulnq8j="" isrended="" proyp,.worthy="" (,of="" .that,="" blessed="" jg;="" hpntancq="" injhe="" lifqiq:comql="" clty,="" julyi="" jl="" nriii="" lu="" f.="" ii.t'="" -="" —.<="" div="">[Column 1]
WOMAN'S<i uoikiit',?’!="" good="" wqman="" :ja,="" a="" .jewel="" of="" far,="" more="" s'jtiianrll="" '‘else="" we="" "may="" conceive="" $f.="" r9nyife,v(inbthef,="" v3ter..6r="" friend,="" if="" m.her="" aims,="" gen="" lie,="" an.,forgiving="" in="" hen="" manner,'="" self-saca’ifictng="" yet="" self-reliant,="" he="" isalo9ciety="" 'a="" refiner="" ail.="" infllittlees,="" 'anrnainerlt,="" treasure.="" '“hufifher="" education,="" her'="" early="" training="" ll)s,gehted,="" abd'she="" iw="" allowed'="" to="" single="" wittf-proiiiiscuous="" company="" orcompanlons?,="" ®wh<5&="" tdlhdfc="" and’="" hearts="" havd="" been'="" neglfict-="" -t'dierhvliblo'future="" will="" bo1="" maimed="" not="" avholly'blighled="" by="" the="" contact.="" hence="" ineeessitjn.'df="" and="" proper="" training1="" daughters="" to:="" fit="" thend="" for="" future="" usefulness.="" womans="" has="" h,="" glorious="" mission="" to'fulfill,="" janln1)="" important="" duty="" perform,="" her="" nighegt="" attainments="" designed'byllifii="" who.="" gave="" her,="" being="" atfficapabilities!="" intended="" pro="" nerkelf1="" wilh="" fho="" necessary="" qualifier-="" rtl<p?t'="" ,j="" °lf="" atylfei'kho'1s="" so'="" mrddr="" herself="" as="" mpanibahle.find="" lend="" charm="" that="" tfiho'vw="" wliicli="" she="" be’eh="" chbseh="" r="" si(l5j'making="" it="" iho’most="" atraetivo="" pos-="" isibl’e,’so’lliftvhe,="" husband,="" comparf-="" itdft'ouher="" choice="" may’love="" dwell="" there-="" aid,b'ecaus(fwdf="" liis="" hohie;="" betng-'a="" peaceful="" -oiabitatiorf="" to-tvliicli="" may-always="" retire="" wherp="" the-f="" perplfexing':="" duties'="" his="" daily="" nroutine="" bf="" business="" is="" over,="" and:="" bore="" -freshed:by;="" home="" comforts.="" such="" an="" wife,="" if<herac0inpaniofi-ba="" intelligent="" appro-="" iciati.ye;hwiu="" be="" him="" prized="" aboyo="" rubies.="" woiftshejljq="" qloja;="" mother,-="" duties;="" arc="" 4mmpasqrably="" increasedpanu="" necessity="" mental="" culture="" two-fold.="" then="" assigned="" responsible="" task="" fashion-="" iing'andrii&ldlng-the="" impressible="" minds="" llier="" children,:andi="" leading="" them="" stop="" step="" -taiyearsiof-thbughtrand="" discretion,="" fur-="" theriwhehdhcy="" go="" fotth:irtto="" busy,="" world="" afid="" .itsi..="" temptations,="" the'="" impress="" fhanduthat="" molded="" perceptible.="" hoiyi-closely="" must="" .pher..="" guard,="" thorn,="" taitliq3iwp.tp]i="" thmiunalftj="" desires,="" nat-="" ural="" bent="" inclinations="" each,="" i="" properly="" direct.="" fqr.="" future.="" ;="" mqther="" may="" truly="" likened="" a.teacher="" or="" master-workman="" whoso="" plastic="" hand="" hath="" moldpd="" reared="" treasures'to="" man="" womanhood,="" can="" offer="" th'em="" with="" firmness="" ebarad-="" ter="" correctness="" of'principle'that="" shall="" render="" objects="" interest="" tq="" those="" whom="" they="" mingle.="" nor="" does="" end="" here—she="" pre-="" pared="" various="" events="" conditions="" 'of="" life,="" mast="" also="" lor="" never-ending="" eternity.="" mother's="" prayer,="" n="" mother’s="" wise="" pious="" counsel,="" though="" perhaps="" often="" neglected,="" seemingly="" for-="" gotten="" busy="" round="" life'with="" its="" turmoil="" bustle,="" willbe="" remembered="" lovingly="" cherished="" when="" sorrows="" dis-="" appointments="" come="" disease="" prostrates.="" gentle="" forbearance,="" look="" anxiety="" mingled="" moth="" er’s="" love,="" return="" memory="" serve="" tq,.="" cheer'="" crushed="" spirit,="" have="" years="" agono="" winged="" flight="" ip="" realms="" bliss.="" here="" again,="" argument="" infa.="" yor="" woman’s="" education="" hign="" moral="" attainments.="" l,‘not="" enough="" weman="" accomplished="" only.="" masters="" mtislt="" drawing="" all="" delight-="" ’="" ful="" acquirements="" which="" clety="" fascinating="" agreeable,="" and'kho="" happy;="" these="" are="" ri="" few="" only.1="" btijt="" elevating="" holy="" inspiration="" ndiisic="" should="" added="" united="" the’morc="" solid="" foundation'of="" yill="" :="" secure="" 'perfect="" womanhood.="" then-="" able="" weep="" who="" weep,="" rejoice="" glad.="" life="" pleasant="" duties="" well="" performed,="" :the="" charmed="" circle="" friends,="" family="" called="" part="" on="" earth,="" shoswill="" finished="" great="" work="" asslgneddier="" finally="" enter="" into="" lifp="" joys="" await="" tjie="" faitiu="" m'll="" "="" 1="" jr="" .="" uin="" sister="" if.="" .well.="" object="" jjqve="" delight="" circle;="" kno(w.="" "with="" manner="" becomes="" dispenser="" sunshine="" everywhere.="" tv="" oman="" only="" become="" very="" dear.="" true,="" noble="" woman,="" whose="" mind="" active,1="" alive="" dll="" that'is="" ennobling,="" allow="" ’even="" moment,="" petty="" thoughts="" aud="" meannesses="" place="" heart.="" shrinks="" from,="" almost="" tremblingly="" shuns="" slanderer="" would="" blast="" some="" fair="" name,="" looks="" pity="" lupon="" even="" jealousy="" ormal="" ice="" mar="" purity="" soul="" character.="" feels,="" were="" sad="" sorrow="" cognizant="" real="" baneful="" existence,="" uncontrollable="" desire="" snatch="" from="" utter="" woe="" awaits="" them,="" calm="" reflection="" points="" gross="" errors="" committed="" remorse="" humiliates.="" repentance="" welly="" confession="" nobio="" beauti-="" ful,="" but="" far="" hotter="" err,="" so="" keep="" heart="" pure="" cheerful!="" view="" qualifica-="" tions="" requirements="" any="" one="" longer="" doubt="" educated="" properly,="" fitted="" really="" high="" position,="" she.="" js..="" ox="" pected="" fill="" through="" life?="" too="" much="" importance="" cannot="" given="" subject,="" earlier="" better,="" this="" lies="" present="" personal="" coul="" sideration,="" mainly="" individual="" interest;="" every="" community="" alike1b6u-="" oerfied="" benefited="" .youth,="" .male="" female,="" of.="" a‘com-="" munity="" inltime="" comprise="" and.become="" itself;="" a&="" after="" another="" departs="" whomow="" it,="" and.="" their.un-="" pass="" hands.,="" .that"="" after;="" perform="" it?="" possible="" better="" faithfully;="" now="" lastly="" least,="" in-whose="" careare="" wo;="" put="" trust?="" wo="" commit="" precious="" charge?="" our="" parents="" teachers="" chiefly="" restyubut="" contribute="" work".="" each="" allof="" us="" exert="" infllittlee="" for.good="" evil,and="" since="" case;="" measure="" re-="" sponsible="" fob="" 'do="" exert?="" so,="" nof="" unite="" further="" grand="" achievement-dbo="" bducatlon="" wo-="" man—-and="" to'surround="" with-="" atmos-="" phere="" refinement,="" sq.="" -she="" -may="" highest="" aim="" and.mission="" oh="" ,usefulnq8j="" isrended="" proyp,.worthy="" (,of="" .that,="" blessed="" jg;="" hpntancq="" injhe="" lifqiq:comql="" clty,="" julyi="" jl="" nriii="" lu="" f.="" ii.t'="" -="" —.<="" div=""><i uoikiit',?’!="" good="" wqman="" :ja,="" a="" .jewel="" of="" far,="" more="" s'jtiianrll="" '‘else="" we="" "may="" conceive="" $f.="" r9nyife,v(inbthef,="" v3ter..6r="" friend,="" if="" m.her="" aims,="" gen="" lie,="" an.,forgiving="" in="" hen="" manner,'="" self-saca’ifictng="" yet="" self-reliant,="" he="" isalo9ciety="" 'a="" refiner="" ail.="" infllittlees,="" 'anrnainerlt,="" treasure.="" '“hufifher="" education,="" her'="" early="" training="" ll)s,gehted,="" abd'she="" iw="" allowed'="" to="" single="" wittf-proiiiiscuous="" company="" orcompanlons?,="" ®wh<5&="" tdlhdfc="" and’="" hearts="" havd="" been'="" neglfict-="" -t'dierhvliblo'future="" will="" bo1="" maimed="" not="" avholly'blighled="" by="" the="" contact.="" hence="" ineeessitjn.'df="" and="" proper="" training1="" daughters="" to:="" fit="" thend="" for="" future="" usefulness.="" womans="" has="" h,="" glorious="" mission="" to'fulfill,="" janln1)="" important="" duty="" perform,="" her="" nighegt="" attainments="" designed'byllifii="" who.="" gave="" her,="" being="" atfficapabilities!="" intended="" pro="" nerkelf1="" wilh="" fho="" necessary="" qualifier-="" rtl<p?t'="" ,j="" °lf="" atylfei'kho'1s="" so'="" mrddr="" herself="" as="" mpanibahle.find="" lend="" charm="" that="" tfiho'vw="" wliicli="" she="" be’eh="" chbseh="" r="" si(l5j'making="" it="" iho’most="" atraetivo="" pos-="" isibl’e,’so’lliftvhe,="" husband,="" comparf-="" itdft'ouher="" choice="" may’love="" dwell="" there-="" aid,b'ecaus(fwdf="" liis="" hohie;="" betng-'a="" peaceful="" -oiabitatiorf="" to-tvliicli="" may-always="" retire="" wherp="" the-f="" perplfexing':="" duties'="" his="" daily="" nroutine="" bf="" business="" is="" over,="" and:="" bore="" -freshed:by;="" home="" comforts.="" such="" an="" wife,="" if<herac0inpaniofi-ba="" intelligent="" appro-="" iciati.ye;hwiu="" be="" him="" prized="" aboyo="" rubies.="" woiftshejljq="" qloja;="" mother,-="" duties;="" arc="" 4mmpasqrably="" increasedpanu="" necessity="" mental="" culture="" two-fold.="" then="" assigned="" responsible="" task="" fashion-="" iing'andrii&ldlng-the="" impressible="" minds="" llier="" children,:andi="" leading="" them="" stop="" step="" -taiyearsiof-thbughtrand="" discretion,="" fur-="" theriwhehdhcy="" go="" fotth:irtto="" busy,="" world="" afid="" .itsi..="" temptations,="" the'="" impress="" fhanduthat="" molded="" perceptible.="" hoiyi-closely="" must="" .pher..="" guard,="" thorn,="" taitliq3iwp.tp]i="" thmiunalftj="" desires,="" nat-="" ural="" bent="" inclinations="" each,="" i="" properly="" direct.="" fqr.="" future.="" ;="" mqther="" may="" truly="" likened="" a.teacher="" or="" master-workman="" whoso="" plastic="" hand="" hath="" moldpd="" reared="" treasures'to="" man="" womanhood,="" can="" offer="" th'em="" with="" firmness="" ebarad-="" ter="" correctness="" of'principle'that="" shall="" render="" objects="" interest="" tq="" those="" whom="" they="" mingle.="" nor="" does="" end="" here—she="" pre-="" pared="" various="" events="" conditions="" 'of="" life,="" mast="" also="" lor="" never-ending="" eternity.="" mother's="" prayer,="" n="" mother’s="" wise="" pious="" counsel,="" though="" perhaps="" often="" neglected,="" seemingly="" for-="" gotten="" busy="" round="" life'with="" its="" turmoil="" bustle,="" willbe="" remembered="" lovingly="" cherished="" when="" sorrows="" dis-="" appointments="" come="" disease="" prostrates.="" gentle="" forbearance,="" look="" anxiety="" mingled="" moth="" er’s="" love,="" return="" memory="" serve="" tq,.="" cheer'="" crushed="" spirit,="" have="" years="" agono="" winged="" flight="" ip="" realms="" bliss.="" here="" again,="" argument="" infa.="" yor="" woman’s="" education="" hign="" moral="" attainments.="" l,‘not="" enough="" weman="" accomplished="" only.="" masters="" mtislt="" drawing="" all="" delight-="" ’="" ful="" acquirements="" which="" clety="" fascinating="" agreeable,="" and'kho="" happy;="" these="" are="" ri="" few="" only.1="" btijt="" elevating="" holy="" inspiration="" ndiisic="" should="" added="" united="" the’morc="" solid="" foundation'of="" yill="" :="" secure="" 'perfect="" womanhood.="" then-="" able="" weep="" who="" weep,="" rejoice="" glad.="" life="" pleasant="" duties="" well="" performed,="" :the="" charmed="" circle="" friends,="" family="" called="" part="" on="" earth,="" shoswill="" finished="" great="" work="" asslgneddier="" finally="" enter="" into="" lifp="" joys="" await="" tjie="" faitiu="" m'll="" "="" 1="" jr="" .="" uin="" sister="" if.="" .well.="" object="" jjqve="" delight="" circle;="" kno(w.="" "with="" manner="" becomes="" dispenser="" sunshine="" everywhere.="" tv="" oman="" only="" become="" very="" dear.="" true,="" noble="" woman,="" whose="" mind="" active,1="" alive="" dll="" that'is="" ennobling,="" allow="" ’even="" moment,="" petty="" thoughts="" aud="" meannesses="" place="" heart.="" shrinks="" from,="" almost="" tremblingly="" shuns="" slanderer="" would="" blast="" some="" fair="" name,="" looks="" pity="" lupon="" even="" jealousy="" ormal="" ice="" mar="" purity="" soul="" character.="" feels,="" were="" sad="" sorrow="" cognizant="" real="" baneful="" existence,="" uncontrollable="" desire="" snatch="" from="" utter="" woe="" awaits="" them,="" calm="" reflection="" points="" gross="" errors="" committed="" remorse="" humiliates.="" repentance="" welly="" confession="" nobio="" beauti-="" ful,="" but="" far="" hotter="" err,="" so="" keep="" heart="" pure="" cheerful!="" view="" qualifica-="" tions="" requirements="" any="" one="" longer="" doubt="" educated="" properly,="" fitted="" really="" high="" position,="" she.="" js..="" ox="" pected="" fill="" through="" life?="" too="" much="" importance="" cannot="" given="" subject,="" earlier="" better,="" this="" lies="" present="" personal="" coul="" sideration,="" mainly="" individual="" interest;="" every="" community="" alike1b6u-="" oerfied="" benefited="" .youth,="" .male="" female,="" of.="" a‘com-="" munity="" inltime="" comprise="" and.become="" itself;="" a&="" after="" another="" departs="" whomow="" it,="" and.="" their.un-="" pass="" hands.,="" .that"="" after;="" perform="" it?="" possible="" better="" faithfully;="" now="" lastly="" least,="" in-whose="" careare="" wo;="" put="" trust?="" wo="" commit="" precious="" charge?="" our="" parents="" teachers="" chiefly="" restyubut="" contribute="" work".="" each="" allof="" us="" exert="" infllittlee="" for.good="" evil,and="" since="" case;="" measure="" re-="" sponsible="" fob="" 'do="" exert?="" so,="" nof="" unite="" further="" grand="" achievement-dbo="" bducatlon="" wo-="" man—-and="" to'surround="" with-="" atmos-="" phere="" refinement,="" sq.="" -she="" -may="" highest="" aim="" and.mission="" oh="" ,usefulnq8j="" isrended="" proyp,.worthy="" (,of="" .that,="" blessed="" jg;="" hpntancq="" injhe="" lifqiq:comql="" clty,="" julyi="" jl="" nriii="" lu="" f.="" ii.t'="" -="" —.<="" div=""> SPHERE OF USEFULNESS.

		BY MRS. E. J. HARDING.

	A good woman is a jewel of far more
worth than all else we may conceive of.
Let her be wife, mother, sister or friend, if
noble in her aims, gentle and forgiving in
her manner, self-sacrificing yet self-reliant,
she is to society a refiner of all influences,
an ornament, a treasure.
	But if her education, her early training
be neglected, and she is allowed to mingle
with promiscuous company or companions,
whose minds and hearts have been neglect-
ed, her whole future will be maimed if not
wholly blighted by the contact. Hence the
necessity of early and proper training of
daughters to fit them for future usefulness.
Woman has a glorious mission to fulfill, a
grand and important duty to perform, if
she would reach her highest attainments
designed by Him who gave her, her being
and capabilities and intended her to pre-
pare herself with the necessary qualific[-]-
tions.
	If a wife, she is to so order herself as to
be companionable, and lend a charm to that
home over which she has been chosen to
preside, making it the most attractive pos-
sible, so that he, her husband, the compan-
ion of her choice, may love to dwell there-
in, because of his home being a peaceful
habitation to which he may always retire
when the perplexing duties of his daily
routine of business is over, and be re-
freshed by home comforts. Such an wife,
if her companion be intelligent and appre-
ciative, will be by him prized above rubies.
	If she be also a mother, her duties are
immeasureably increased, and the necessity
for mental culture two-fold. Then to her
is assigned the responsible task of fashion-
<i uoikiit',?’!="" good="" wqman="" :ja,="" a="" .jewel="" of="" far,="" more="" s'jtiianrll="" '‘else="" we="" "may="" conceive="" $f.="" r9nyife,v(inbthef,="" v3ter..6r="" friend,="" if="" m.her="" aims,="" gen="" lie,="" an.,forgiving="" in="" hen="" manner,'="" self-saca’ifictng="" yet="" self-reliant,="" he="" isalo9ciety="" 'a="" refiner="" ail.="" infllittlees,="" 'anrnainerlt,="" treasure.="" '“hufifher="" education,="" her'="" early="" training="" ll)s,gehted,="" abd'she="" iw="" allowed'="" to="" single="" wittf-proiiiiscuous="" company="" orcompanlons?,="" ®wh<5&="" tdlhdfc="" and’="" hearts="" havd="" been'="" neglfict-="" -t'dierhvliblo'future="" will="" bo1="" maimed="" not="" avholly'blighled="" by="" the="" contact.="" hence="" ineeessitjn.'df="" and="" proper="" training1="" daughters="" to:="" fit="" thend="" for="" future="" usefulness.="" womans="" has="" h,="" glorious="" mission="" to'fulfill,="" janln1)="" important="" duty="" perform,="" her="" nighegt="" attainments="" designed'byllifii="" who.="" gave="" her,="" being="" atfficapabilities!="" intended="" pro="" nerkelf1="" wilh="" fho="" necessary="" qualifier-="" rtl<p?t'="" ,j="" °lf="" atylfei'kho'1s="" so'="" mrddr="" herself="" as="" mpanibahle.find="" lend="" charm="" that="" tfiho'vw="" wliicli="" she="" be’eh="" chbseh="" r="" si(l5j'making="" it="" iho’most="" atraetivo="" pos-="" isibl’e,’so’lliftvhe,="" husband,="" comparf-="" itdft'ouher="" choice="" may’love="" dwell="" there-="" aid,b'ecaus(fwdf="" liis="" hohie;="" betng-'a="" peaceful="" -oiabitatiorf="" to-tvliicli="" may-always="" retire="" wherp="" the-f="" perplfexing':="" duties'="" his="" daily="" nroutine="" bf="" business="" is="" over,="" and:="" bore="" -freshed:by;="" home="" comforts.="" such="" an="" wife,="" if<herac0inpaniofi-ba="" intelligent="" appro-="" iciati.ye;hwiu="" be="" him="" prized="" aboyo="" rubies.="" woiftshejljq="" qloja;="" mother,-="" duties;="" arc="" 4mmpasqrably="" increasedpanu="" necessity="" mental="" culture="" two-fold.="" then="" assigned="" responsible="" task="" fashion-="" iing'andrii&ldlng-the="" impressible="" minds="" llier="" children,:andi="" leading="" them="" stop="" step="" -taiyearsiof-thbughtrand="" discretion,="" fur-="" theriwhehdhcy="" go="" fotth:irtto="" busy,="" world="" afid="" .itsi..="" temptations,="" the'="" impress="" fhanduthat="" molded="" perceptible.="" hoiyi-closely="" must="" .pher..="" guard,="" thorn,="" taitliq3iwp.tp]i="" thmiunalftj="" desires,="" nat-="" ural="" bent="" inclinations="" each,="" i="" properly="" direct.="" fqr.="" future.="" ;="" mqther="" may="" truly="" likened="" a.teacher="" or="" master-workman="" whoso="" plastic="" hand="" hath="" moldpd="" reared="" treasures'to="" man="" womanhood,="" can="" offer="" th'em="" with="" firmness="" ebarad-="" ter="" correctness="" of'principle'that="" shall="" render="" objects="" interest="" tq="" those="" whom="" they="" mingle.="" nor="" does="" end="" here—she="" pre-="" pared="" various="" events="" conditions="" 'of="" life,="" mast="" also="" lor="" never-ending="" eternity.="" mother's="" prayer,="" n="" mother’s="" wise="" pious="" counsel,="" though="" perhaps="" often="" neglected,="" seemingly="" for-="" gotten="" busy="" round="" life'with="" its="" turmoil="" bustle,="" willbe="" remembered="" lovingly="" cherished="" when="" sorrows="" dis-="" appointments="" come="" disease="" prostrates.="" gentle="" forbearance,="" look="" anxiety="" mingled="" moth="" er’s="" love,="" return="" memory="" serve="" tq,.="" cheer'="" crushed="" spirit,="" have="" years="" agono="" winged="" flight="" ip="" realms="" bliss.="" here="" again,="" argument="" infa.="" yor="" woman’s="" education="" hign="" moral="" attainments.="" l,‘not="" enough="" weman="" accomplished="" only.="" masters="" mtislt="" drawing="" all="" delight-="" ’="" ful="" acquirements="" which="" clety="" fascinating="" agreeable,="" and'kho="" happy;="" these="" are="" ri="" few="" only.1="" btijt="" elevating="" holy="" inspiration="" ndiisic="" should="" added="" united="" the’morc="" solid="" foundation'of="" yill="" :="" secure="" 'perfect="" womanhood.="" then-="" able="" weep="" who="" weep,="" rejoice="" glad.="" life="" pleasant="" duties="" well="" performed,="" :the="" charmed="" circle="" friends,="" family="" called="" part="" on="" earth,="" shoswill="" finished="" great="" work="" asslgneddier="" finally="" enter="" into="" lifp="" joys="" await="" tjie="" faitiu="" m'll="" "="" 1="" jr="" .="" uin="" sister="" if.="" .well.="" object="" jjqve="" delight="" circle;="" kno(w.="" "with="" manner="" becomes="" dispenser="" sunshine="" everywhere.="" tv="" oman="" only="" become="" very="" dear.="" true,="" noble="" woman,="" whose="" mind="" active,1="" alive="" dll="" that'is="" ennobling,="" allow="" ’even="" moment,="" petty="" thoughts="" aud="" meannesses="" place="" heart.="" shrinks="" from,="" almost="" tremblingly="" shuns="" slanderer="" would="" blast="" some="" fair="" name,="" looks="" pity="" lupon="" even="" jealousy="" ormal="" ice="" mar="" purity="" soul="" character.="" feels,="" were="" sad="" sorrow="" cognizant="" real="" baneful="" existence,="" uncontrollable="" desire="" snatch="" from="" utter="" woe="" awaits="" them,="" calm="" reflection="" points="" gross="" errors="" committed="" remorse="" humiliates.="" repentance="" welly="" confession="" nobio="" beauti-="" ful,="" but="" far="" hotter="" err,="" so="" keep="" heart="" pure="" cheerful!="" view="" qualifica-="" tions="" requirements="" any="" one="" longer="" doubt="" educated="" properly,="" fitted="" really="" high="" position,="" she.="" js..="" ox="" pected="" fill="" through="" life?="" too="" much="" importance="" cannot="" given="" subject,="" earlier="" better,="" this="" lies="" present="" personal="" coul="" sideration,="" mainly="" individual="" interest;="" every="" community="" alike1b6u-="" oerfied="" benefited="" .youth,="" .male="" female,="" of.="" a‘com-="" munity="" inltime="" comprise="" and.become="" itself;="" a&="" after="" another="" departs="" whomow="" it,="" and.="" their.un-="" pass="" hands.,="" .that"="" after;="" perform="" it?="" possible="" better="" faithfully;="" now="" lastly="" least,="" in-whose="" careare="" wo;="" put="" trust?="" wo="" commit="" precious="" charge?="" our="" parents="" teachers="" chiefly="" restyubut="" contribute="" work".="" each="" allof="" us="" exert="" infllittlee="" for.good="" evil,and="" since="" case;="" measure="" re-="" sponsible="" fob="" 'do="" exert?="" so,="" nof="" unite="" further="" grand="" achievement-dbo="" bducatlon="" wo-="" man—-and="" to'surround="" with-="" atmos-="" phere="" refinement,="" sq.="" -she="" -may="" highest="" aim="" and.mission="" oh="" ,usefulnq8j="" isrended="" proyp,.worthy="" (,of="" .that,="" blessed="" jg;="" hpntancq="" injhe="" lifqiq:comql="" clty,="" julyi="" jl="" nriii="" lu="" f.="" ii.t'="" -="" —.<="" div="">ing and molding the impressible minds of
her children, and leading them step by step
to years of thought and discretion, and fur-
ther when they go forth into the busy world
and its temptations, the impress of the
hand that molded will be perceptible.
How closely must she then guard them,
and how watch the innate desire, the nat-

[Column 2]
<i uoikiit',?’!="" good="" wqman="" :ja,="" a="" .jewel="" of="" far,="" more="" s'jtiianrll="" '‘else="" we="" "may="" conceive="" $f.="" r9nyife,v(inbthef,="" v3ter..6r="" friend,="" if="" m.her="" aims,="" gen="" lie,="" an.,forgiving="" in="" hen="" manner,'="" self-saca’ifictng="" yet="" self-reliant,="" he="" isalo9ciety="" 'a="" refiner="" ail.="" infllittlees,="" 'anrnainerlt,="" treasure.="" '“hufifher="" education,="" her'="" early="" training="" ll)s,gehted,="" abd'she="" iw="" allowed'="" to="" single="" wittf-proiiiiscuous="" company="" orcompanlons?,="" ®wh<5&="" tdlhdfc="" and’="" hearts="" havd="" been'="" neglfict-="" -t'dierhvliblo'future="" will="" bo1="" maimed="" not="" avholly'blighled="" by="" the="" contact.="" hence="" ineeessitjn.'df="" and="" proper="" training1="" daughters="" to:="" fit="" thend="" for="" future="" usefulness.="" womans="" has="" h,="" glorious="" mission="" to'fulfill,="" janln1)="" important="" duty="" perform,="" her="" nighegt="" attainments="" designed'byllifii="" who.="" gave="" her,="" being="" atfficapabilities!="" intended="" pro="" nerkelf1="" wilh="" fho="" necessary="" qualifier-="" rtl<p?t'="" ,j="" °lf="" atylfei'kho'1s="" so'="" mrddr="" herself="" as="" mpanibahle.find="" lend="" charm="" that="" tfiho'vw="" wliicli="" she="" be’eh="" chbseh="" r="" si(l5j'making="" it="" iho’most="" atraetivo="" pos-="" isibl’e,’so’lliftvhe,="" husband,="" comparf-="" itdft'ouher="" choice="" may’love="" dwell="" there-="" aid,b'ecaus(fwdf="" liis="" hohie;="" betng-'a="" peaceful="" -oiabitatiorf="" to-tvliicli="" may-always="" retire="" wherp="" the-f="" perplfexing':="" duties'="" his="" daily="" nroutine="" bf="" business="" is="" over,="" and:="" bore="" -freshed:by;="" home="" comforts.="" such="" an="" wife,="" if<herac0inpaniofi-ba="" intelligent="" appro-="" iciati.ye;hwiu="" be="" him="" prized="" aboyo="" rubies.="" woiftshejljq="" qloja;="" mother,-="" duties;="" arc="" 4mmpasqrably="" increasedpanu="" necessity="" mental="" culture="" two-fold.="" then="" assigned="" responsible="" task="" fashion-="" iing'andrii&ldlng-the="" impressible="" minds="" llier="" children,:andi="" leading="" them="" stop="" step="" -taiyearsiof-thbughtrand="" discretion,="" fur-="" theriwhehdhcy="" go="" fotth:irtto="" busy,="" world="" afid="" .itsi..="" temptations,="" the'="" impress="" fhanduthat="" molded="" perceptible.="" hoiyi-closely="" must="" .pher..="" guard,="" thorn,="" taitliq3iwp.tp]i="" thmiunalftj="" desires,="" nat-="" ural="" bent="" inclinations="" each,="" i="" properly="" direct.="" fqr.="" future.="" ;="" mqther="" may="" truly="" likened="" a.teacher="" or="" master-workman="" whoso="" plastic="" hand="" hath="" moldpd="" reared="" treasures'to="" man="" womanhood,="" can="" offer="" th'em="" with="" firmness="" ebarad-="" ter="" correctness="" of'principle'that="" shall="" render="" objects="" interest="" tq="" those="" whom="" they="" mingle.="" nor="" does="" end="" here—she="" pre-="" pared="" various="" events="" conditions="" 'of="" life,="" mast="" also="" lor="" never-ending="" eternity.="" mother's="" prayer,="" n="" mother’s="" wise="" pious="" counsel,="" though="" perhaps="" often="" neglected,="" seemingly="" for-="" gotten="" busy="" round="" life'with="" its="" turmoil="" bustle,="" willbe="" remembered="" lovingly="" cherished="" when="" sorrows="" dis-="" appointments="" come="" disease="" prostrates.="" gentle="" forbearance,="" look="" anxiety="" mingled="" moth="" er’s="" love,="" return="" memory="" serve="" tq,.="" cheer'="" crushed="" spirit,="" have="" years="" agono="" winged="" flight="" ip="" realms="" bliss.="" here="" again,="" argument="" infa.="" yor="" woman’s="" education="" hign="" moral="" attainments.="" l,‘not="" enough="" weman="" accomplished="" only.="" masters="" mtislt="" drawing="" all="" delight-="" ’="" ful="" acquirements="" which="" clety="" fascinating="" agreeable,="" and'kho="" happy;="" these="" are="" ri="" few="" only.1="" btijt="" elevating="" holy="" inspiration="" ndiisic="" should="" added="" united="" the’morc="" solid="" foundation'of="" yill="" :="" secure="" 'perfect="" womanhood.="" then-="" able="" weep="" who="" weep,="" rejoice="" glad.="" life="" pleasant="" duties="" well="" performed,="" :the="" charmed="" circle="" friends,="" family="" called="" part="" on="" earth,="" shoswill="" finished="" great="" work="" asslgneddier="" finally="" enter="" into="" lifp="" joys="" await="" tjie="" faitiu="" m'll="" "="" 1="" jr="" .="" uin="" sister="" if.="" .well.="" object="" jjqve="" delight="" circle;="" kno(w.="" "with="" manner="" becomes="" dispenser="" sunshine="" everywhere.="" tv="" oman="" only="" become="" very="" dear.="" true,="" noble="" woman,="" whose="" mind="" active,1="" alive="" dll="" that'is="" ennobling,="" allow="" ’even="" moment,="" petty="" thoughts="" aud="" meannesses="" place="" heart.="" shrinks="" from,="" almost="" tremblingly="" shuns="" slanderer="" would="" blast="" some="" fair="" name,="" looks="" pity="" lupon="" even="" jealousy="" ormal="" ice="" mar="" purity="" soul="" character.="" feels,="" were="" sad="" sorrow="" cognizant="" real="" baneful="" existence,="" uncontrollable="" desire="" snatch="" from="" utter="" woe="" awaits="" them,="" calm="" reflection="" points="" gross="" errors="" committed="" remorse="" humiliates.="" repentance="" welly="" confession="" nobio="" beauti-="" ful,="" but="" far="" hotter="" err,="" so="" keep="" heart="" pure="" cheerful!="" view="" qualifica-="" tions="" requirements="" any="" one="" longer="" doubt="" educated="" properly,="" fitted="" really="" high="" position,="" she.="" js..="" ox="" pected="" fill="" through="" life?="" too="" much="" importance="" cannot="" given="" subject,="" earlier="" better,="" this="" lies="" present="" personal="" coul="" sideration,="" mainly="" individual="" interest;="" every="" community="" alike1b6u-="" oerfied="" benefited="" .youth,="" .male="" female,="" of.="" a‘com-="" munity="" inltime="" comprise="" and.become="" itself;="" a&="" after="" another="" departs="" whomow="" it,="" and.="" their.un-="" pass="" hands.,="" .that"="" after;="" perform="" it?="" possible="" better="" faithfully;="" now="" lastly="" least,="" in-whose="" careare="" wo;="" put="" trust?="" wo="" commit="" precious="" charge?="" our="" parents="" teachers="" chiefly="" restyubut="" contribute="" work".="" each="" allof="" us="" exert="" infllittlee="" for.good="" evil,and="" since="" case;="" measure="" re-="" sponsible="" fob="" 'do="" exert?="" so,="" nof="" unite="" further="" grand="" achievement-dbo="" bducatlon="" wo-="" man—-and="" to'surround="" with-="" atmos-="" phere="" refinement,="" sq.="" -she="" -may="" highest="" aim="" and.mission="" oh="" ,usefulnq8j="" isrended="" proyp,.worthy="" (,of="" .that,="" blessed="" jg;="" hpntancq="" injhe="" lifqiq:comql="" clty,="" julyi="" jl="" nriii="" lu="" f.="" ii.t'="" -="" —.<="" div="">ural bend and inclinations of each, and
properly direct them for the future. A
mother may truly be likened to a teacher
or master-workman whose plastic hand
hath molded and reared her treasures to
man and womanhood, and can offer them
to the world with that firmness of charac-
ter and correctness of principle that shall
render them objects of interest to those
with whom they must of necessity mingle.
Nor does her duty end here—she has pre-
pared for the various events and conditions
of life, and must also for the never-ending
eternity. A mother's prayer, a mother's
wise and pious counsel, though perhaps
often neglected, or may be seemingly for-
gotten in the busy round of life with its
turmoil and bustle, will be remembered and
lovingly cherished when sorrows and dis-
appointments come or when the hand of
disease prostrates. Her gentle forbearance,
her look of anxiety mingled with a moth-
er's love, will return in memory and serve
to cheer the crushed spirit, though she
may have years agone winged her flight to
realms of bliss.
	Here then again, is the argument in fa-
vor of woman's education and high moral
attainments. It is not enough that woman
be accomplished only. That she perhaps
masters music, drawing and all the delight-
ful acquirements which render her in so-
ciety fascinating and agreeable, and she
herself happy; these are a few only. But
the elevating and holy inspiration of music
should be added and united with the more
solid foundation of acquirements that will
secure a perfect womanhood. Then will
she be able to weep with those who weep,
and rejoice with those whose hearts are
glad. Her life will be a round of pleasant
duties well performed, and when the
charmed circle of friends, and family are
called to part with her on earth, she will
have finished the great work assigned her
and finally enter into the never-ending life
of joys that await the good and the faith-
ful!
	If a sister she hath duties which if well-
performed, render her the object of love
and delight in the home circle; and all who
know her are charmed with her gentle
manner and she becomes a dispenser of
sunshine everywhere.
	Woman though only a friend, may and
often does become very dear. A true, noble
woman, whose mind is active, alive to all
that is ennobling, will not allow even for a
moment, petty thoughts and meannesses a
place in her heart. She shrinks from, and
almost tremblingly shuns the slanderer who
would blast some fair name, looks with pity
upon those who allow even jealousy or mal-
ice to mar the purity of soul and character.
She feels, as it were a sad sorrow when
cognizant of its real baneful existence, and
<i uoikiit',?’!="" good="" wqman="" :ja,="" a="" .jewel="" of="" far,="" more="" s'jtiianrll="" '‘else="" we="" "may="" conceive="" $f.="" r9nyife,v(inbthef,="" v3ter..6r="" friend,="" if="" m.her="" aims,="" gen="" lie,="" an.,forgiving="" in="" hen="" manner,'="" self-saca’ifictng="" yet="" self-reliant,="" he="" isalo9ciety="" 'a="" refiner="" ail.="" infllittlees,="" 'anrnainerlt,="" treasure.="" '“hufifher="" education,="" her'="" early="" training="" ll)s,gehted,="" abd'she="" iw="" allowed'="" to="" single="" wittf-proiiiiscuous="" company="" orcompanlons?,="" ®wh<5&="" tdlhdfc="" and’="" hearts="" havd="" been'="" neglfict-="" -t'dierhvliblo'future="" will="" bo1="" maimed="" not="" avholly'blighled="" by="" the="" contact.="" hence="" ineeessitjn.'df="" and="" proper="" training1="" daughters="" to:="" fit="" thend="" for="" future="" usefulness.="" womans="" has="" h,="" glorious="" mission="" to'fulfill,="" janln1)="" important="" duty="" perform,="" her="" nighegt="" attainments="" designed'byllifii="" who.="" gave="" her,="" being="" atfficapabilities!="" intended="" pro="" nerkelf1="" wilh="" fho="" necessary="" qualifier-="" rtl<p?t'="" ,j="" °lf="" atylfei'kho'1s="" so'="" mrddr="" herself="" as="" mpanibahle.find="" lend="" charm="" that="" tfiho'vw="" wliicli="" she="" be’eh="" chbseh="" r="" si(l5j'making="" it="" iho’most="" atraetivo="" pos-="" isibl’e,’so’lliftvhe,="" husband,="" comparf-="" itdft'ouher="" choice="" may’love="" dwell="" there-="" aid,b'ecaus(fwdf="" liis="" hohie;="" betng-'a="" peaceful="" -oiabitatiorf="" to-tvliicli="" may-always="" retire="" wherp="" the-f="" perplfexing':="" duties'="" his="" daily="" nroutine="" bf="" business="" is="" over,="" and:="" bore="" -freshed:by;="" home="" comforts.="" such="" an="" wife,="" if<herac0inpaniofi-ba="" intelligent="" appro-="" iciati.ye;hwiu="" be="" him="" prized="" aboyo="" rubies.="" woiftshejljq="" qloja;="" mother,-="" duties;="" arc="" 4mmpasqrably="" increasedpanu="" necessity="" mental="" culture="" two-fold.="" then="" assigned="" responsible="" task="" fashion-="" iing'andrii&ldlng-the="" impressible="" minds="" llier="" children,:andi="" leading="" them="" stop="" step="" -taiyearsiof-thbughtrand="" discretion,="" fur-="" theriwhehdhcy="" go="" fotth:irtto="" busy,="" world="" afid="" .itsi..="" temptations,="" the'="" impress="" fhanduthat="" molded="" perceptible.="" hoiyi-closely="" must="" .pher..="" guard,="" thorn,="" taitliq3iwp.tp]i="" thmiunalftj="" desires,="" nat-="" ural="" bent="" inclinations="" each,="" i="" properly="" direct.="" fqr.="" future.="" ;="" mqther="" may="" truly="" likened="" a.teacher="" or="" master-workman="" whoso="" plastic="" hand="" hath="" moldpd="" reared="" treasures'to="" man="" womanhood,="" can="" offer="" th'em="" with="" firmness="" ebarad-="" ter="" correctness="" of'principle'that="" shall="" render="" objects="" interest="" tq="" those="" whom="" they="" mingle.="" nor="" does="" end="" here—she="" pre-="" pared="" various="" events="" conditions="" 'of="" life,="" mast="" also="" lor="" never-ending="" eternity.="" mother's="" prayer,="" n="" mother’s="" wise="" pious="" counsel,="" though="" perhaps="" often="" neglected,="" seemingly="" for-="" gotten="" busy="" round="" life'with="" its="" turmoil="" bustle,="" willbe="" remembered="" lovingly="" cherished="" when="" sorrows="" dis-="" appointments="" come="" disease="" prostrates.="" gentle="" forbearance,="" look="" anxiety="" mingled="" moth="" er’s="" love,="" return="" memory="" serve="" tq,.="" cheer'="" crushed="" spirit,="" have="" years="" agono="" winged="" flight="" ip="" realms="" bliss.="" here="" again,="" argument="" infa.="" yor="" woman’s="" education="" hign="" moral="" attainments.="" l,‘not="" enough="" weman="" accomplished="" only.="" masters="" mtislt="" drawing="" all="" delight-="" ’="" ful="" acquirements="" which="" clety="" fascinating="" agreeable,="" and'kho="" happy;="" these="" are="" ri="" few="" only.1="" btijt="" elevating="" holy="" inspiration="" ndiisic="" should="" added="" united="" the’morc="" solid="" foundation'of="" yill="" :="" secure="" 'perfect="" womanhood.="" then-="" able="" weep="" who="" weep,="" rejoice="" glad.="" life="" pleasant="" duties="" well="" performed,="" :the="" charmed="" circle="" friends,="" family="" called="" part="" on="" earth,="" shoswill="" finished="" great="" work="" asslgneddier="" finally="" enter="" into="" lifp="" joys="" await="" tjie="" faitiu="" m'll="" "="" 1="" jr="" .="" uin="" sister="" if.="" .well.="" object="" jjqve="" delight="" circle;="" kno(w.="" "with="" manner="" becomes="" dispenser="" sunshine="" everywhere.="" tv="" oman="" only="" become="" very="" dear.="" true,="" noble="" woman,="" whose="" mind="" active,1="" alive="" dll="" that'is="" ennobling,="" allow="" ’even="" moment,="" petty="" thoughts="" aud="" meannesses="" place="" heart.="" shrinks="" from,="" almost="" tremblingly="" shuns="" slanderer="" would="" blast="" some="" fair="" name,="" looks="" pity="" lupon="" even="" jealousy="" ormal="" ice="" mar="" purity="" soul="" character.="" feels,="" were="" sad="" sorrow="" cognizant="" real="" baneful="" existence,="" uncontrollable="" desire="" snatch="" from="" utter="" woe="" awaits="" them,="" calm="" reflection="" points="" gross="" errors="" committed="" remorse="" humiliates.="" repentance="" welly="" confession="" nobio="" beauti-="" ful,="" but="" far="" hotter="" err,="" so="" keep="" heart="" pure="" cheerful!="" view="" qualifica-="" tions="" requirements="" any="" one="" longer="" doubt="" educated="" properly,="" fitted="" really="" high="" position,="" she.="" js..="" ox="" pected="" fill="" through="" life?="" too="" much="" importance="" cannot="" given="" subject,="" earlier="" better,="" this="" lies="" present="" personal="" coul="" sideration,="" mainly="" individual="" interest;="" every="" community="" alike1b6u-="" oerfied="" benefited="" .youth,="" .male="" female,="" of.="" a‘com-="" munity="" inltime="" comprise="" and.become="" itself;="" a&="" after="" another="" departs="" whomow="" it,="" and.="" their.un-="" pass="" hands.,="" .that"="" after;="" perform="" it?="" possible="" better="" faithfully;="" now="" lastly="" least,="" in-whose="" careare="" wo;="" put="" trust?="" wo="" commit="" precious="" charge?="" our="" parents="" teachers="" chiefly="" restyubut="" contribute="" work".="" each="" allof="" us="" exert="" infllittlee="" for.good="" evil,and="" since="" case;="" measure="" re-="" sponsible="" fob="" 'do="" exert?="" so,="" nof="" unite="" further="" grand="" achievement-dbo="" bducatlon="" wo-="" man—-and="" to'surround="" with-="" atmos-="" phere="" refinement,="" sq.="" -she="" -may="" highest="" aim="" and.mission="" oh="" ,usefulnq8j="" isrended="" proyp,.worthy="" (,of="" .that,="" blessed="" jg;="" hpntancq="" injhe="" lifqiq:comql="" clty,="" julyi="" jl="" nriii="" lu="" f.="" ii.t'="" -="" —.<="" div="">an almost uncontrollable desire to snatch
them from the utter woe that awaits them,
when more calm reflection points them to
the gross errors they have committed and
may be remorse humiliates. Repentance is
wise and well, confession noble and beauti-
ful, but far better is it not to err, and so
keep the heart pure and cheerful!
	In view of all these necessary qualifica-
tions and requirements in woman, will any
one longer doubt the necessity of her being
<i uoikiit',?’!="" good="" wqman="" :ja,="" a="" .jewel="" of="" far,="" more="" s'jtiianrll="" '‘else="" we="" "may="" conceive="" $f.="" r9nyife,v(inbthef,="" v3ter..6r="" friend,="" if="" m.her="" aims,="" gen="" lie,="" an.,forgiving="" in="" hen="" manner,'="" self-saca’ifictng="" yet="" self-reliant,="" he="" isalo9ciety="" 'a="" refiner="" ail.="" infllittlees,="" 'anrnainerlt,="" treasure.="" '“hufifher="" education,="" her'="" early="" training="" ll)s,gehted,="" abd'she="" iw="" allowed'="" to="" single="" wittf-proiiiiscuous="" company="" orcompanlons?,="" ®wh<5&="" tdlhdfc="" and’="" hearts="" havd="" been'="" neglfict-="" -t'dierhvliblo'future="" will="" bo1="" maimed="" not="" avholly'blighled="" by="" the="" contact.="" hence="" ineeessitjn.'df="" and="" proper="" training1="" daughters="" to:="" fit="" thend="" for="" future="" usefulness.="" womans="" has="" h,="" glorious="" mission="" to'fulfill,="" janln1)="" important="" duty="" perform,="" her="" nighegt="" attainments="" designed'byllifii="" who.="" gave="" her,="" being="" atfficapabilities!="" intended="" pro="" nerkelf1="" wilh="" fho="" necessary="" qualifier-="" rtl<p?t'="" ,j="" °lf="" atylfei'kho'1s="" so'="" mrddr="" herself="" as="" mpanibahle.find="" lend="" charm="" that="" tfiho'vw="" wliicli="" she="" be’eh="" chbseh="" r="" si(l5j'making="" it="" iho’most="" atraetivo="" pos-="" isibl’e,’so’lliftvhe,="" husband,="" comparf-="" itdft'ouher="" choice="" may’love="" dwell="" there-="" aid,b'ecaus(fwdf="" liis="" hohie;="" betng-'a="" peaceful="" -oiabitatiorf="" to-tvliicli="" may-always="" retire="" wherp="" the-f="" perplfexing':="" duties'="" his="" daily="" nroutine="" bf="" business="" is="" over,="" and:="" bore="" -freshed:by;="" home="" comforts.="" such="" an="" wife,="" if<herac0inpaniofi-ba="" intelligent="" appro-="" iciati.ye;hwiu="" be="" him="" prized="" aboyo="" rubies.="" woiftshejljq="" qloja;="" mother,-="" duties;="" arc="" 4mmpasqrably="" increasedpanu="" necessity="" mental="" culture="" two-fold.="" then="" assigned="" responsible="" task="" fashion-="" iing'andrii&ldlng-the="" impressible="" minds="" llier="" children,:andi="" leading="" them="" stop="" step="" -taiyearsiof-thbughtrand="" discretion,="" fur-="" theriwhehdhcy="" go="" fotth:irtto="" busy,="" world="" afid="" .itsi..="" temptations,="" the'="" impress="" fhanduthat="" molded="" perceptible.="" hoiyi-closely="" must="" .pher..="" guard,="" thorn,="" taitliq3iwp.tp]i="" thmiunalftj="" desires,="" nat-="" ural="" bent="" inclinations="" each,="" i="" properly="" direct.="" fqr.="" future.="" ;="" mqther="" may="" truly="" likened="" a.teacher="" or="" master-workman="" whoso="" plastic="" hand="" hath="" moldpd="" reared="" treasures'to="" man="" womanhood,="" can="" offer="" th'em="" with="" firmness="" ebarad-="" ter="" correctness="" of'principle'that="" shall="" render="" objects="" interest="" tq="" those="" whom="" they="" mingle.="" nor="" does="" end="" here—she="" pre-="" pared="" various="" events="" conditions="" 'of="" life,="" mast="" also="" lor="" never-ending="" eternity.="" mother's="" prayer,="" n="" mother’s="" wise="" pious="" counsel,="" though="" perhaps="" often="" neglected,="" seemingly="" for-="" gotten="" busy="" round="" life'with="" its="" turmoil="" bustle,="" willbe="" remembered="" lovingly="" cherished="" when="" sorrows="" dis-="" appointments="" come="" disease="" prostrates.="" gentle="" forbearance,="" look="" anxiety="" mingled="" moth="" er’s="" love,="" return="" memory="" serve="" tq,.="" cheer'="" crushed="" spirit,="" have="" years="" agono="" winged="" flight="" ip="" realms="" bliss.="" here="" again,="" argument="" infa.="" yor="" woman’s="" education="" hign="" moral="" attainments.="" l,‘not="" enough="" weman="" accomplished="" only.="" masters="" mtislt="" drawing="" all="" delight-="" ’="" ful="" acquirements="" which="" clety="" fascinating="" agreeable,="" and'kho="" happy;="" these="" are="" ri="" few="" only.1="" btijt="" elevating="" holy="" inspiration="" ndiisic="" should="" added="" united="" the’morc="" solid="" foundation'of="" yill="" :="" secure="" 'perfect="" womanhood.="" then-="" able="" weep="" who="" weep,="" rejoice="" glad.="" life="" pleasant="" duties="" well="" performed,="" :the="" charmed="" circle="" friends,="" family="" called="" part="" on="" earth,="" shoswill="" finished="" great="" work="" asslgneddier="" finally="" enter="" into="" lifp="" joys="" await="" tjie="" faitiu="" m'll="" "="" 1="" jr="" .="" uin="" sister="" if.="" .well.="" object="" jjqve="" delight="" circle;="" kno(w.="" "with="" manner="" becomes="" dispenser="" sunshine="" everywhere.="" tv="" oman="" only="" become="" very="" dear.="" true,="" noble="" woman,="" whose="" mind="" active,1="" alive="" dll="" that'is="" ennobling,="" allow="" ’even="" moment,="" petty="" thoughts="" aud="" meannesses="" place="" heart.="" shrinks="" from,="" almost="" tremblingly="" shuns="" slanderer="" would="" blast="" some="" fair="" name,="" looks="" pity="" lupon="" even="" jealousy="" ormal="" ice="" mar="" purity="" soul="" character.="" feels,="" were="" sad="" sorrow="" cognizant="" real="" baneful="" existence,="" uncontrollable="" desire="" snatch="" from="" utter="" woe="" awaits="" them,="" calm="" reflection="" points="" gross="" errors="" committed="" remorse="" humiliates.="" repentance="" welly="" confession="" nobio="" beauti-="" ful,="" but="" far="" hotter="" err,="" so="" keep="" heart="" pure="" cheerful!="" view="" qualifica-="" tions="" requirements="" any="" one="" longer="" doubt="" educated="" properly,="" fitted="" really="" high="" position,="" she.="" js..="" ox="" pected="" fill="" through="" life?="" too="" much="" importance="" cannot="" given="" subject,="" earlier="" better,="" this="" lies="" present="" personal="" coul="" sideration,="" mainly="" individual="" interest;="" every="" community="" alike1b6u-="" oerfied="" benefited="" .youth,="" .male="" female,="" of.="" a‘com-="" munity="" inltime="" comprise="" and.become="" itself;="" a&="" after="" another="" departs="" whomow="" it,="" and.="" their.un-="" pass="" hands.,="" .that"="" after;="" perform="" it?="" possible="" better="" faithfully;="" now="" lastly="" least,="" in-whose="" careare="" wo;="" put="" trust?="" wo="" commit="" precious="" charge?="" our="" parents="" teachers="" chiefly="" restyubut="" contribute="" work".="" each="" allof="" us="" exert="" infllittlee="" for.good="" evil,and="" since="" case;="" measure="" re-="" sponsible="" fob="" 'do="" exert?="" so,="" nof="" unite="" further="" grand="" achievement-dbo="" bducatlon="" wo-="" man—-and="" to'surround="" with-="" atmos-="" phere="" refinement,="" sq.="" -she="" -may="" highest="" aim="" and.mission="" oh="" ,usefulnq8j="" isrended="" proyp,.worthy="" (,of="" .that,="" blessed="" jg;="" hpntancq="" injhe="" lifqiq:comql="" clty,="" julyi="" jl="" nriii="" lu="" f.="" ii.t'="" -="" —.<="" div="">educated properly, and fitted for the really
high and responsible position she is ex-
pected to fill through life?
	Too much importance cannot be given to
the subject, and the earlier the better, for
in this lies not only present personal con-
sideration, and mainly individual interest;
but any and every community is alike con-
cerned and benefitted.

[Column 3]
	The youth, male and female of a com-
munity are in time to comprise and become
the community itself; as one after another
departs who now comprise it, and their un-
finished work and duty must pass into the
hands of those that are to come after;
hence they should be fitted to perform it,
if possible even better and more faithfully.
	And now, lastly but not least, in whose
care are we to put this so important trust?
<i uoikiit',?’!="" good="" wqman="" :ja,="" a="" .jewel="" of="" far,="" more="" s'jtiianrll="" '‘else="" we="" "may="" conceive="" $f.="" r9nyife,v(inbthef,="" v3ter..6r="" friend,="" if="" m.her="" aims,="" gen="" lie,="" an.,forgiving="" in="" hen="" manner,'="" self-saca’ifictng="" yet="" self-reliant,="" he="" isalo9ciety="" 'a="" refiner="" ail.="" infllittlees,="" 'anrnainerlt,="" treasure.="" '“hufifher="" education,="" her'="" early="" training="" ll)s,gehted,="" abd'she="" iw="" allowed'="" to="" single="" wittf-proiiiiscuous="" company="" orcompanlons?,="" ®wh<5&="" tdlhdfc="" and’="" hearts="" havd="" been'="" neglfict-="" -t'dierhvliblo'future="" will="" bo1="" maimed="" not="" avholly'blighled="" by="" the="" contact.="" hence="" ineeessitjn.'df="" and="" proper="" training1="" daughters="" to:="" fit="" thend="" for="" future="" usefulness.="" womans="" has="" h,="" glorious="" mission="" to'fulfill,="" janln1)="" important="" duty="" perform,="" her="" nighegt="" attainments="" designed'byllifii="" who.="" gave="" her,="" being="" atfficapabilities!="" intended="" pro="" nerkelf1="" wilh="" fho="" necessary="" qualifier-="" rtl<p?t'="" ,j="" °lf="" atylfei'kho'1s="" so'="" mrddr="" herself="" as="" mpanibahle.find="" lend="" charm="" that="" tfiho'vw="" wliicli="" she="" be’eh="" chbseh="" r="" si(l5j'making="" it="" iho’most="" atraetivo="" pos-="" isibl’e,’so’lliftvhe,="" husband,="" comparf-="" itdft'ouher="" choice="" may’love="" dwell="" there-="" aid,b'ecaus(fwdf="" liis="" hohie;="" betng-'a="" peaceful="" -oiabitatiorf="" to-tvliicli="" may-always="" retire="" wherp="" the-f="" perplfexing':="" duties'="" his="" daily="" nroutine="" bf="" business="" is="" over,="" and:="" bore="" -freshed:by;="" home="" comforts.="" such="" an="" wife,="" if<herac0inpaniofi-ba="" intelligent="" appro-="" iciati.ye;hwiu="" be="" him="" prized="" aboyo="" rubies.="" woiftshejljq="" qloja;="" mother,-="" duties;="" arc="" 4mmpasqrably="" increasedpanu="" necessity="" mental="" culture="" two-fold.="" then="" assigned="" responsible="" task="" fashion-="" iing'andrii&ldlng-the="" impressible="" minds="" llier="" children,:andi="" leading="" them="" stop="" step="" -taiyearsiof-thbughtrand="" discretion,="" fur-="" theriwhehdhcy="" go="" fotth:irtto="" busy,="" world="" afid="" .itsi..="" temptations,="" the'="" impress="" fhanduthat="" molded="" perceptible.="" hoiyi-closely="" must="" .pher..="" guard,="" thorn,="" taitliq3iwp.tp]i="" thmiunalftj="" desires,="" nat-="" ural="" bent="" inclinations="" each,="" i="" properly="" direct.="" fqr.="" future.="" ;="" mqther="" may="" truly="" likened="" a.teacher="" or="" master-workman="" whoso="" plastic="" hand="" hath="" moldpd="" reared="" treasures'to="" man="" womanhood,="" can="" offer="" th'em="" with="" firmness="" ebarad-="" ter="" correctness="" of'principle'that="" shall="" render="" objects="" interest="" tq="" those="" whom="" they="" mingle.="" nor="" does="" end="" here—she="" pre-="" pared="" various="" events="" conditions="" 'of="" life,="" mast="" also="" lor="" never-ending="" eternity.="" mother's="" prayer,="" n="" mother’s="" wise="" pious="" counsel,="" though="" perhaps="" often="" neglected,="" seemingly="" for-="" gotten="" busy="" round="" life'with="" its="" turmoil="" bustle,="" willbe="" remembered="" lovingly="" cherished="" when="" sorrows="" dis-="" appointments="" come="" disease="" prostrates.="" gentle="" forbearance,="" look="" anxiety="" mingled="" moth="" er’s="" love,="" return="" memory="" serve="" tq,.="" cheer'="" crushed="" spirit,="" have="" years="" agono="" winged="" flight="" ip="" realms="" bliss.="" here="" again,="" argument="" infa.="" yor="" woman’s="" education="" hign="" moral="" attainments.="" l,‘not="" enough="" weman="" accomplished="" only.="" masters="" mtislt="" drawing="" all="" delight-="" ’="" ful="" acquirements="" which="" clety="" fascinating="" agreeable,="" and'kho="" happy;="" these="" are="" ri="" few="" only.1="" btijt="" elevating="" holy="" inspiration="" ndiisic="" should="" added="" united="" the’morc="" solid="" foundation'of="" yill="" :="" secure="" 'perfect="" womanhood.="" then-="" able="" weep="" who="" weep,="" rejoice="" glad.="" life="" pleasant="" duties="" well="" performed,="" :the="" charmed="" circle="" friends,="" family="" called="" part="" on="" earth,="" shoswill="" finished="" great="" work="" asslgneddier="" finally="" enter="" into="" lifp="" joys="" await="" tjie="" faitiu="" m'll="" "="" 1="" jr="" .="" uin="" sister="" if.="" .well.="" object="" jjqve="" delight="" circle;="" kno(w.="" "with="" manner="" becomes="" dispenser="" sunshine="" everywhere.="" tv="" oman="" only="" become="" very="" dear.="" true,="" noble="" woman,="" whose="" mind="" active,1="" alive="" dll="" that'is="" ennobling,="" allow="" ’even="" moment,="" petty="" thoughts="" aud="" meannesses="" place="" heart.="" shrinks="" from,="" almost="" tremblingly="" shuns="" slanderer="" would="" blast="" some="" fair="" name,="" looks="" pity="" lupon="" even="" jealousy="" ormal="" ice="" mar="" purity="" soul="" character.="" feels,="" were="" sad="" sorrow="" cognizant="" real="" baneful="" existence,="" uncontrollable="" desire="" snatch="" from="" utter="" woe="" awaits="" them,="" calm="" reflection="" points="" gross="" errors="" committed="" remorse="" humiliates.="" repentance="" welly="" confession="" nobio="" beauti-="" ful,="" but="" far="" hotter="" err,="" so="" keep="" heart="" pure="" cheerful!="" view="" qualifica-="" tions="" requirements="" any="" one="" longer="" doubt="" educated="" properly,="" fitted="" really="" high="" position,="" she.="" js..="" ox="" pected="" fill="" through="" life?="" too="" much="" importance="" cannot="" given="" subject,="" earlier="" better,="" this="" lies="" present="" personal="" coul="" sideration,="" mainly="" individual="" interest;="" every="" community="" alike1b6u-="" oerfied="" benefited="" .youth,="" .male="" female,="" of.="" a‘com-="" munity="" inltime="" comprise="" and.become="" itself;="" a&="" after="" another="" departs="" whomow="" it,="" and.="" their.un-="" pass="" hands.,="" .that"="" after;="" perform="" it?="" possible="" better="" faithfully;="" now="" lastly="" least,="" in-whose="" careare="" wo;="" put="" trust?="" wo="" commit="" precious="" charge?="" our="" parents="" teachers="" chiefly="" restyubut="" contribute="" work".="" each="" allof="" us="" exert="" infllittlee="" for.good="" evil,and="" since="" case;="" measure="" re-="" sponsible="" fob="" 'do="" exert?="" so,="" nof="" unite="" further="" grand="" achievement-dbo="" bducatlon="" wo-="" man—-and="" to'surround="" with-="" atmos-="" phere="" refinement,="" sq.="" -she="" -may="" highest="" aim="" and.mission="" oh="" ,usefulnq8j="" isrended="" proyp,.worthy="" (,of="" .that,="" blessed="" jg;="" hpntancq="" injhe="" lifqiq:comql="" clty,="" julyi="" jl="" nriii="" lu="" f.="" ii.t'="" -="" —.<="" div="">To whom shall we commit this precious
charge? With our parents and teachers
will this chiefly rest, but all may contribute
to this noble work. We each and all of us
exert an influence for good or evil, and since
this is the case, are we not in a measure re-
sponsible for that we do exert? If so,
should we not unite to further this one
grand achievement—the education of wo-
man—and to surround her with an atmos-
phere of refinement, so that she may fill
her highest aim and mission here on earth,
and when her life of usefulness is ended
she may prove worthy of that blessed in-
heritance in the life to come!
	S. L. City, July 27, 1877.


R. S. REPORT.

	BRIGHAM CITY, Aug. 6th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a few lines from the Young
Ladies' Improvement Association of Brig-
ham City would not be uninteresting to
our progress as a Society.
	We were organized, under the direction
of Miss E. R. Snow, on the 31st of July,
1875, with the following officers:
	Mrs. Minnie Jensen Snow, President,
	"	Annie Madsen,
	Miss Ida Snow,
	Mrs. Lottie Huntsucker,	Counselors.
	"	Lucy Jensen,
	Miss Esther Smith,
	Mrs. Jane Johnson,
	Miss Eugenia Snow, Secretary,
	"	Fannie Grachl, Assistant Secretary.
	Mrs. Annie Madsen, Treasurer.
	During the first year our meetings were
very well attended, and a lively interest
manifested in responding to every require-
ment. Last year we contributed by dona-
tions two hundred and fifity-five dollars
($255) to be applied on our new Tabernacle,
now in course of erection, and have already
this year over one hundred dollars ($100)
more to be devoted to the same purpose.
We have also assisted in purchasing the
second organ for public use, to be placed in
our new Social Hall, and we do whatever
we can for the Temples and other local calls.
	We continue to have good and lively
meetings, once in two weeks, with an aver-
age attendance of about fifity members. We
feel well and enjoy the spirit of the Gospel,
and desire to improve our talents and pre-
pare ourselves to be usefnl in promoting
the welfare of Zion, by desisting from all
we know to be evil, and doing all we can
to elevate and imporve our minds, and live
up to the glorious principles of the gospel
of Christ.
	Wishing success to your valuable paper,
we remain your sisters,
		Minnie Jensen Snow, President,
	Eugenia Snow Pierce,	Secretaries.
	Fannie Graehl,


Mint Sauce.—With three heaped tablespoonfuls
of finely chopped young mint, mix two of pow-
dered sugar, and six of vinegar; stir it until the
sugar is dissolved.


44		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,			Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
Eaststreets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 15, 1877.


[Column 1]
		PATRIARCHAL MARRIAGE.

	Knowing that the order of marriage exist-
ing here, furnishes one of the popular subjects
of journalistic writers, and having read some
of these articles written by persons  unacquain-
ted with the subject, we propose to offer a few
ideas as briefly as possible, believing it is con-
sistent for woman's voice to be heard in her
own defense.
	Celestial Marriage, as the Latter-day Saints
term it, means something more than the sim-
ple condition of husband and wife, as that rela-
tion is understood by the modern world; it em-
braces in its covenant the ties of endless asso-
ciation, and eternal progression; this is what
is comprehended by those who enter into this
holy order of matrimony.
	With Mormon women it is not the idea of
many wives which so horrifies the world, but
it is the goal to be attained, the promise at-
tached to the covenant, which reaches far
away into the countless ages of progression,
and stretches backward to the redemption of
the dead, who passed away without the saving
ordinances. This is the dispensation, in which
the hearts of the fathers are to be turned to the
children, and the hearts of the children to the
fathers. These are the ambitions which stim-
ulate the saints to endure hardships, ignominy
and the world's disgrace. The world judges
Mormon women from their own standpoint,
and had they no more laudable ambition than
the world have, they would be just as wretched
as they imagine them to be; but they have a
greater aim in view, and live for a higher pur-
pose; and in order to rise above all things it
is necessary to descend beneath all things.
	The world does not understand the Mormon
Sisters; they stand as a race unprecedented in
history; an enigma to their contemporaries;
but their history is being written imperishably
in their works; they have not only assisted in
pioneering and founding a new territory in a
desert land, but in ushering in a new social
and religious dispensation. They have main-
tained their integrity and demonstrated their
sincerity, heroically, yet unassumingly, by
sustaining practically the principles of plural
marriage. All who advance new light upon
any subject are sure to encounter opposition
from the masses; it is one of the fixed laws of
that old inveterate tyrant CUSTOM; and more
especially is this the case, when traditions and
conventionalities are swept away, and a new
phase of things presented, without permission
of the "powers that be." Mormon women
have borne much for their religion; they know
in what estimation the world regards them;
they also know that God has spoken from
heaven, and true to the divinity of their na-
ture, they "stoop to conquer."
	Some of those noble few who first entered

[Column 2]
into these sacred marriage covenants, were wo-
men of strong individuality; women who held
themselves too sacred to descend to the level 
of marriage such as exists in modern society;
women of such axalted ideas of virtue and 
chastity, that they demanded the same purity 
of life from the opposite sex. In fact they
were of that strong-minded Puritanical race of
New Englanders, who inherited independence
of character sufficient to the emergency. They 
were taught the principle of patriarchal mar-
riage and they comprehend it in its fullest
and highest sense, as it appealed to the higher 
moral and spiritual nature; and on these
grounds they accepted its conditions, knowing
that it would eventually, more than repay the
sacrifice of the world's good opinion, if they 
could but suffer and be strong.
	We do not believe in destroying any of the
properties of our God given natures; but in
disciplining and cultivating all the holy affec-
tions, and emotions which will prepare us for 
the society of angels, and to dwell with celes-
tial beings. God gave to woman the blessing 
of maternity, and an abundant capacity for
love: not that she should be forever barren; not
that she should sacrifice her womanly instincts
for unholy purposes, but for the fuller perfect-
ing of herself, and her love through the powers
of motherhood.
	Plural marriage elevates woman, by develop-
ing more perfectly the sentiments of true love,
than any other marital relation, for its aim
and bearing is continually toward a higher 
life; and it enjoins the keeping of a higher
code of laws. None but pure-minded and high-
souled woman can sufficiently comprehend 
the design of these covenants, to endure the 
trials and temptations which are incident to a 
higher spiritual development. The actual ex-
isting circumstances which are consequent up-
on the relationships and obligations of plural
marriage expand the soul, and clothe it with
the Christian graces of character which make
life beautiful and honorable; patience, long-
suffering, gentleness, forbearance, meekness
and above all that charity which helps one to
love her neighbor as herself. these virtues
must be practical in the lives of those who ful-
fill the responsibilities which celestial mar-
riage implies. It does not narrow, but widens
woman's field for usefulness.
	The very genius and spirit of the age is in
keeping with the cry of woman for recogni-
tion of her position by the side of man. What 
is it purport? It is the consciousness in wo-
man everywhere, if even a latent spark of her
inherent divinity lingers, that the hour is has-
tening when the curse will be removed, "Thy 
desire has be to thy husband and he shall 
rule over thee." What is the burden of this 
cry, and what are "the signs of the times?"
"Behold the bridegroom cometh go ye out to
meet him!" Mormon women are practically
solving the questions which will result in a 
more complete purity of life.
			[handwritten] E. B. Wells.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	A WOMAN'S VICTORY.—Miss Ida Cook has
been elected Superintendent of District
Schools for Cache County.
	ELDER A. M. MUSSER requests us to cor-
rect an unintentional error of ours in our last
issue respecting the printing of pamphlets etc.
Elders Leonard Pickel, J. W. Glass and W. C.
Staines most liberally aided in their publica-
tion. He would be very sorry to have them
think their patronage was so soon forgotten.
	THE AUGUST number of the Utah Musical
Times contains much that is pleasing. New

[Column 2]
music by Prof. Careless set to the hymn of
invocation "O my Father," also a Sabbath
Hymn, and "I saw a mighty angel fly." The
Musical, Dramatic and Editorial Notes are
specially interesting. It is adapted to the cul-
ture of music among the young people for
whose benefit it is intended.

	THE UTAH Musical Bouquet is another mu-
sical publication by Daynes and Son whose tal-
ent for music and its cultivation is so widely
known. This number contains some beautiful
pieces, "The Spirit of God" one of the first
Mormon hymns, set to music. A new song
"The Pioneers," words by Elder John Nichol-
son and music by Daynes and Son.

	CITIZENS of Salt Lake seem drifting into the
habits of other cities in regard to summer re-
sorts. Several have built country houses for
summer use in healthful localities or near
springs considered beneficial. Others camp out
in the canyons or seek lodgings at the various
local hotels which have been built in these
mountain passes for the accommodation of
travelers.

	THE SALT Lake Theatre has been opened
the past week and some very celebrated plays
have been performed. Miss Rose Eytinge a
pleasing and popular actress has been perform-
ing "Rose Michel," "Miss Sarah Moulton"
and "Lady Macbeth," each of these characters
being represented in a natural and graceful
style. Miss Eytinge is one of Salt Lake's fav-
orites, we believe her engagement here for 
present is closed.

	THE LADIES EXCURSION to Lake Point Thurs-
day. Aug. 9, was a very enjoyable affair. The
day was fine, the lake was sufficiently calm
and placid and the bathing was truly delight-
ful. Notwithstanding the party was a very
large one, the enjoyment was not lessened, for
all seemed determined to enjoy it to the ut-
most. The bowery was very pleasant and com-
modious; and those who wished could obtain
refreshments at the hotel or on the steamer
General Garfield. Much credit is due to the
ladies' committee who had charge of the excur-
sion, for their successful tact and management.
These baths are wonderfully exhilarating, and
delicate persons or invalids should avail them-
selves of the present cheap railroad fares.

	THE "WOMAN'S Commission House" has
been undergoing some change in the arrange-
ment of goods etc., all of which it is expected
will be an advantage to the institution. They
have divided the store in the centre and all
the assortment of goods belonging to the store
previously, is on the south side of the large and
spacious room, and the other side is filled with
goods from Provo woolen factory, for whole-
sale and retail, which will probably bring
many customers to the establishment who will
patronize the Woman's Store by purchasing
from its variety stock. This store has been es-
tablished and sustained for the sake of encour-
aging home-industries and manufactures, an
object which should call for the special atten-
tion of all who desire the future welfare of
Zion. It is to be hoped the sisters will not let
their interest in this institution flag, but use
every effort possible to make it a complete suc-
cess.

	DESERET SILK ASSOCIATION.—The Deseret
Silk Association met at the Firemen's Hall
Friday Aug. 3, Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young said she had found a home mar-
ket for all the reeled silk we could make. Our
numbers were increasing every year and trees
were being planted all over the Territory
wherever the climate would permit them to


[Column 1]
grow. At the next meeting we would be pre-
pared to buy the cocoons that had been raised
this year, and those who wished to have them
reeled on shares could do so.
	Mr. P. A. Schettler said we had no reason to
feel discouraged; advised those raising worms,
to have trees as near the cocoonery as possible
and thus avoid a great amount of labor. He
had very good success this year, notwithstand-
ing that the grasshoppers took all the leaves
off his trees. He had raised sixty-four ounces
of eggs of the Tuscan species. He had re-
ceived a communication from Mr. Newman,
silk-raiser of California, asking for eggs and
cocoons. He advised those raising seed to pick
out the finest cocoons, so as to establish a good
reputation for good eggs. They were worth
from four to five dollars an ounce.
	Mrs. M. I. Horne was well pleased with the
success that had been attained. Quite an in-
terest was being taken in the 14th Ward. Mrs.
Cummings had raised thirty pounds of fine
cocoons. The trees that had been planted out
would bring forth good fruit another year.
	Meeting adjourned until the first Friday in
September, at 3 p. m.
					R. SIMPSON, Secretary.
	"The Women of Mormondom" is the title of
a new work just out from the pen of E. W.
Tullidge, the author of the "Life of Brigham
Young or Utah and Her Founders," and other
creditable writings, as well as of several plays
which have been placed upon the boards here
and in other cities. This writer is original in
his style of composition and as Mormon Wo-
men form an entirely new subject, the writer
has an abundant field for the expression of his
originality. He has written some most glow-
ing and inspirational chapters on the themes of
Mormonism and Woman. Mr. Tullidge in his
characteristically happy and appropriate style
has addressed the preface of this work to the
Women of America:
	"Long enough, O women of America, have
your Mormon sisters been blasphemed! From
the day that they in the name and fear of
the Lord their God undertook to build up Zion,
they have been persecuted for righteousness
sake; 'A people scattered and peeled from the
beginning.'
	The record of their lives is now sent unto
you, that you may have an opportunity to
judge them in the spirit of righteousness. So
shall you be judged by Him whom they have
honored, whose glory they have sought, and
whose name they have magnified."
	A most striking preface, and one which be-
speaks the tact of the author. The book
scarcely needs the benefit of a Review for it
recommends itself more forcibly than it is pos-
sible for any writer to do in a newspaper para-
graph.
	Mr. Tullidge has so arranged the Table of
Contents that one can easily find whatever
they wish; the book contains 552 pages divided
into 60 chapters. This work is a record of in-
teresting incidents and episodes in the lives of
Mormon women from the earliest days of the
organization of the church. The author in
his closing chapter has thrown out some beau-
tifully suggestive and convincing ideas that
will almost force the reader to accept the Mor-
mon view of the subject. He reasons thus, "A
certain manifest destiny has made the marriage
problem the supreme of Mormonism. How
suggestive in this view is the fact that Con-
gress, by special legislation, has made polyg-
amy the very alpha and omega of the Mor-
mon problem. The Mormon women, there-
fore must perforce of circumstances, by their
faith and action greatly influence the future
destiny of Mormonism.

[Column 2]
	If it was Brigham Young who gave to them
that unparalleled power, no matter what should
be declared by the enemy as his motive, then
has he done more for woman than any man
living. But Mormon apostles and representa-
tives executed this grand charter of woman's
rights; and George Q. Cannon's noble declara-
tion at the time—that the charter of female
suffrage ought to be extended to the entire
republic—is deserving the acclamations of the
women of America.
	There is a providence in the very attitude of
Mormon women. The prophesy is distinctly
pronounced in the whole history of their lives,
that they shall be apostolic to the age. A new
apostleship is ever innovative. The Mormon
women have established an astounding inno-
vation in polygamy. It has been infinitely
offensive. So much the better[-] for it has made
a great noise in the world and has shaken the
old and rotten institutions of Christendom.
That shaking was not only inevitable, but nec-
essary, before a new civillization."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		45


A FEW IDEAS.

	T﻿he newspapers and journals throughout the
country now abound with dreadful accounts of
strikes, and all the horrors attending them.
In my opinion this is only the beginning of
sorrows. This nation must drink of the cup
they have filled to overflowing, drink it to the
dregs. Ye have wrought us wrong, ye have
brought us woe, shall ye triumph much lon-
ger? We answer, no!
	It seems the governments are powerless to
bring order out of chaos, when will it all end?
When each one is willing to love his neighbor
as himself! Is there a remedy? Yes! When
man is willing that God shall rule on the earth.
What are the causes that have led to this state
of things? "Mans inhumanity to man!"
Those who have been blest with intellect and
energy, have, in many instances used those
gifts to trample down their less fortunate
brethren. They have vaunted their education
and despised those who were not book-learned;
they have trod them under foot, or made them
their stepping-stone to money, place and pow-
er, and when they have attained that which
they sought for, they cast them away as worth-
less.
	Will these Railway Kings who are now in-
volved in the striking, even look on their
employees, would they sit at the same table
with them? No! Yet they are the ones who
fill their purses, they furnish the bone and
sinew, have built their railroads and given in-
to their hands the fat of the land, and what is
the workingmen's reward? Reduced wages
until they starve, while they look on and see
their employers enjoying every luxury that a
pampered appetite can crave and the famished
wolf must look on contented with his lot. How
long can this state of things last? From the
highest to the lowest it seems like a struggle
to prey on one another's property. Those who
have been in power have shown the uneduca-
ted what position and influence of wealth can
do. It can rob a whole nation of honest work-
ers, shamelessly ride over every obstacle to fill
some of the highest places in the nation, and
when rascality is discovered enables the perpe-
trators to slip through the hands of justice un-
punished. The honest laborers cannot do as
the influential class can, so they use such wea-
pons as they possess, then they take fearful
vengeance on their oppressors; they are like
an unchained tiger knowing neither friend
nor foe, all are alike to them, they are unreas-
oning, fearless alike of heaven or hell.


It has been declared that education and en-
lightenment would save the world, and bring
the reign of peace. Who have been the ones
to inaugurate this awful state of things in
these once United States? It has been such
polished men as Belknap and Boss Tweed who
with refining insolence have robbed the na-
tion.
	Last conference President Young said they
would have blood enough before they got 
through, and his words seem coming to pass
already.
	Let us be thankful we are here in Utah and 
strive to be faithful to the end.
								MARY.
	Grantsville July 30, 1877.


A LETTER TO WOMEN.

				CONCLUDED.

	I wish ladies would give this subject the at-
tention it deserves, and adopt, if not these ar-
ticles named, some others well devised, that
will, if not perfectly, partially meet the want.
I am convinced that if ladies only knew the
detrimental results or effects of weight and
heat in this region of the body, the spine, hips,
and abdomen, they would hasten to devise
some means of removal. I am not alone in
my convictions as to the great need, but have
the indorsement of the best medical authority
throughout the land.
	Every article of dress should fit loosely, and
tight, girting bands of any kind or form, be
wholly discarded, as they hinder or impede
free respiration, free circulation of blood, and
even easy, graceful movements of the body.
	When the ill effects of these stays and bands
that injuriously compress, are known, what
lady of even ordinary knowledge, will con-
tinue their use?
	Even gaiters, gloves and shoes, should be
sufficiently large so as not to confine either the
hands limbs or feet; and the latter, shoes,
should have always low broad heels to insure
comfort, not to say health, as the injurious ef-
fect and uncomfortable feeling of a high nar-
row heel, is well known to those who have
given the matter an earnest thought.  The
high, narrow heel, prevents elasticity of step,
and with any attempt to step, the body re-
ceives a jar or jolt, very injurious to females
that have worn them, and in consequence been
obliged to discard them, as many can attest.
	Leather belts are decidedly injurious and
should never be worn. It would indeed seem
that style, fashion and present custom, all
strive to invent and offer for sale articles of
dress especially injurious, and that we blindly
adopt and continue their use in view of all the
alarming consequences. This should not be,
let us rather throw off the shackels which fash-
ion would impose, and think and act in the
future for ourselves.
					MRS. E. J. HARDING.


How lovely and desirable is a bright,
wholesome temperament, bringing sun-
shine everywhere and casting no dark
shadows before us. The influence of a per-
son of cheerful temper on persons and sur-
roundings is beneficial on all occasions and
at all times. We feel animated by their
presence and better for their conversation,
however simple or commonplace it may be.


THE OLD University of Tubingen will
celebrate its four hundredth anniversary
this month.


46		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SILK MANUFACTURE.

	In view of the growing interest in this
industry in Utah, the following sensible
article from the August number of the
"American Agriculturist," may prove pro-
fitable to some of our readers—
	In 1860 the production of silk in Amer-
ica was valued at two million dollars. In
1876 the value of the silk made in this
country was not less than twenty-five mil-
lion dollars. No branch of manufacturing
industry has advanced more rapidly than
this, and none promises to grow more stead-
ily in the future. But it is worthy of note
that the raw material for this manufacture
is wholly imported, or the exception is so
trifling that it need not be taken into ac-
count. At the same time no country in the
world possesses a finer climate and soil for
the rearing of the silk worm, and the cul-
tivation of the trees upon the leaves of
which it feeds.
	Unfortunately, the light, easy, agreeable
industry of breeding and rearing the worms
and reeling the fibre from the cocoons, is
not considered as being worthy the notice
of farmers, or farmer's families. Yet the
day of small things has not wholly passed
away, and indications seem to point to a
necessary return to the smaller industries
of the family, which have been abandoned
or neglected during the flourishing times
of the past few years. Everything is tend-
ing towards the exercise of economy in
small as well as great things, and an indus-
try which may profitably employ the chil-
dren on the farm, is not to be overlooked or
despised. The exhibition of silkworms
and their cocoons at the Centennial, did
much to inform the public as to the charac-
ter of this employment. The exhibit of
Mr. Crozier, of Silkville, Kansas, was very
interesting in this way, and it is to be
hoped may be effective in turning the at-
tention of farmers' wives who have more
than usual leisure, to the advantage of
learning the methods of managing the
worms and of teaching their daughters.
The reeling of the silk is somewhat diffi-
cult, but the machine needed for it is very
simple, and can be worked by a little girl.
	Several million dollars a year might be
distributed among farmers' families, that
are now sent abroad for the purchase of raw
silk, if only the attention of those who are
able to do this easy work were effectively
turned to it. In California, the raising of
silkworms's eggs is an important industry,
but in this the silk is sacrificed, or at most,
the cocoons from which the moth or parent
insect has escaped, have a very low value
for carding purposes.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
 A feeling of interest in the children
growing up around us, prompts me to ven-
ture a few words.
	Does every mother in Israel early teach
her  children to pray night and morning?
I feel that we do not, or have not realized
the importance of this, or many of our 
young who are now going astray, might,
through this measure, have been kept in
the line of their duty.  Mothers, are we
careful enough in regard to the examples
we set before the rising generation?  If I 
backbite my neighbor, can I consistently
reprove my child for doing the same?  In
dealing with others, if I fail to be strictly
honest, or if in conversation I am not ex-
actly truthful, shall I expect my  children
to act and speak in a rightous and just
manner? Not if I am a reasonable wo-
man, surely.
	Some mothers are actually so thoughtless
  to speak lightly of the Improvement
Institutions which have been organized for 
the benefit of our young people. Yet what
a vast amount of good these organizations
are calculated to do!  And many mothers
have left much to be taught their sons and
daughters, in the meetings held by these
societies, which they might and should,
themselves, have instructed their children
in, advancing them in the Latter-day work,
and rendering less necessary the many
meetings about which some of them com-
plain.
 The mother who unnecessarily leaves her
children to the care of others, is liable
through so doing, to meet with misfortunes
for which she will never cease to reproach
herself.  Think of a mother going from
home for pleasure and leaving her little
daughter in the care of a nurse who wants,
alsp, to take her pleasure and does not wish
to be bothered with the child.  So she fixes
some clothes to look like a person standing
at the foot of the bed into which she puts
the little one, telling her if she cries that
person will take her off!  The mother comes
home to find her darling positively dead
with fright!  Now she may rail at the 
cruelly, heartlessness and dishonesty of 
the nurse, who was paid for taking care of
the child and has proved unfaithful.
What comfort does this give her stricken
heart?  She can but reflect that she too has
proved unfaithful and unworthy of the 
priceless treasure which God trusted to her
care.
 Oh! mothers be true to your high and
holy callings, and find no pleasures so sweet
as that of ceasless care and watchfulness
over your children.  Govern them in kind-
ness- do not whip them!  We all have
pains enough inflicted upon our bodies be-
fore we get through with life, if we avoid
all harshness toward each other.
 We should teach our children as far as 
possible to understand and keep the laws of
life and health.  These are important prin-
ciples contained in the Gospel of Jesus Christ
which embraces all good.  I am satisfied
that keeping late hours in dancing and 
other amusements is very injurious; and I
shall be glad when the counsel which has
been given concerning these things, is prac-
tically carried out in all the cities and set-
tlements of the Saints.
	We move slowly as a people, but we do
progress; and I know that one great item is
to have charity one for another, to forgive
each other's failings as we wish our own to
be forgiven.  I pray that wisdom may be
given to parents in Zion, and that their
children may prove worthy to bear off the
Kingdom."
                                                     M.S.
	20th Ward S. L. City


CORRESPONDENCE.

	ROME, GEORGIA, June 10, 1877
Mrs. E. B. WELLS:
 My Dear Sister:—I have just received
one of your papers this morning; it comes
regularly to hand and is a most welcome
visitor.  I prize it above all other papers
that I get.  I can readily realize the great
work you are striving to accomplish in re-
moving prejudice, and helping to build up
the Kingdom of God in the last days.  I
consider it a great and glorious work to be
engaged in.  My father and all the breth-


ren here are trying very hard to sell all
their possessions to the best advantage in
order to emigrate this fall to Utah.  I sin-
cerely hope they will be successful in their
efforts; I will hail the day with great joy
when we can all say farewell to Babylon
and gather with the saints in Zion.  I have
placed all my hopes in the Lord knowing
that He is able to accomplish all things.
My prayers ascend continually for the
speedy success of our gathering out of Bab-
ylon and being placed where we can enjoy
our religious beliefs, and assist in building
up the great kingdom which is now being
established upon the earth.  I think it the
duty of every Latter-day saint to do all
that the Almighty has given them power
to do.  Brothers Morgan and Leizenbee
preached to us their last sermon at this
place on the night of the 19th of May; on
the 20th they left in search of a new field of
labor; but they will return in due time to
attend to the emigration.  My prayer is
that they may be successful in all their un-
dertakings.  I remain your sister in the 
true gospel,
				JOANNAH C. MANNING


THE cardinal mistake which irrational ad-
vocates of women's rights have made is in
libeling their actual intention by an appar-
ent pretense that woman in the profess-
ions is to be something less of an woman
and a little more of a man. The women
who have successfully entered the profess-
ions of law, medicine and journalism, and
those who, like Mrs. Livermore, carry a
finer culture than many men into the pul-
pit, are the best answers to the charge so
flippantly made that a woman ceases to be
feminine when she turns her brain to ac-
count in a practical, honorable and capable
way. The vulgar absurdity that she is
"womanly" who darns stockings, scrubs
floors, and carries garbage; and she is "wo-
manly who devotes herself to gossip, fash-
ion, dissipation and vice; while she is not
"womanly" who becomes a physician, a
a lawyer, a journalist, a minister, lurks
only in heads too stupid to understand
their own better instincts, or too base
to value in woman that which is dearest to
her in man, and most esteemed in her own
eyes—the power to win and to keep man's
love through his respect for her and her re-
spect for herself. There is no lasting love
without respect; and, looking over the face
of society, who are the happiest mates?
Whose are the attractive homes? What
class of women make, by universal consent,
the tenderest and most faithful wives, the
devoted and efficient mothers? The wo-
men between whom and their husbands
there is the closest bond of intellectual sym-
pathy.	MARGARET BUGHANAN.
—Woman's Words.


So surely as marriage is an institution
grounded in human nature, no woman
worthily and happily married is less fit-
ted to aid the general progress of the world
than she who stands alone with none to 
hinder: yes, with none to hinder, but with
none to help her either, in the exercise of 
her best gifts.  It is time that we utterly
repudiate the pernicious dogma that mar-
riage and a practical life-work are incom-
patible.


SEND your son into the world with good
principles and a good education, and he will
find his way in the dark.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LONGFELLOW'S HOME.

	In 1843 the house was bought by Mr.
Longfellow, and from that time, with ten-
der love and reverent care he has adorned,
beautified and perfected it.  There is not
another house in America so full of fascina-
ting interest.  The very atmosphere is
different from that of other houses.  It has
a sacred hush, due in part, it may be to the
all-subduing power of association:
		"Once, ah once within these walls,
		One whom memory oft recalls,
		The Father of his country dwelt."
	Perhaps the most interesting room in the
house is Longfellow's study.  Here most of
the poet's hours are spent the quiet only
broken by the chimes of the old clock in
the corner.  It is one of  those antique
time pieces higher than a man's head, with
a round moon-face at the top, such as are
found in some old New England houses, and
are sufficient guarantee of the respectabil-
ity of the family.  An open fire burns
cheerily in the grate.  An orange tree
stands in the window, and near it an
Egyptian stork keeps watch.  A table in
the centre of the room is heaped with
books and papers, and has a look of orderly
disorder.  Its choices treasure is Cole-
ridge's inkstand.  Here, too, is an early
volume of Coleridge's poems, annotated in
his own handwriting, which is as scraggly
as that of a genius ought to be.  On this
table are piles of unanswered letters; only
a sharp-toothed mouse could get through
them in a month's time.  That which fu-
ture generations will regard with most in-
terest in this room is a bookcase filled with
Longfellow's own works in the original
manuscript.  They are handsomely bound
as befits the clear, beautiful writing, and
make a noble collection.  It is a pity to di-
vide them yet what one should menopolize
such a heritage!  Perhaps public gift will
eventually be made of them.  Some baby
now unborn, may donate them where they
will be safe through the generations.
Among the pictures here are crayon like-
nesses of Emerson Sumner and Hawthorne,
all taken when these famous men were in
the flush of youth.
 Passing through the hall we enter "Lady
Washington's Drawing Room."  The fur-
niture is white satin covered with gay
flowers in vines and clusters; arm-chairs
and sofas are heaped with soft cushions cov-
ered with the same material.  The carpet is
a bed of flowers.  The effect is heightened
by a large mirror opening another gay vis-
ta, and a picture in gorgeous colors extend-
ing from floor to ceiling.  It is one of Cop-
ley's—"The Grand-children of Sir William
Pepperell."  A quaint little maiden in a
high cap, and stiff bodice, a youth with
flowing curls, and a wooden-looking poodle
compose the group.  The picture is set in a
massive burnished frame, and the effect
would be oppressive in another room, but is
in admirable harmony in this state apart-
ment. On an ETAGUE, laden with treasures
is an agate cup, from the hand of no less a
master than Benvenuto Collini—clear, ex-
quisitely carved, graceful in shape and guar-
ded by two tiny open-mouthed dragons. It
was sent to him from the collection of the
poet Rogers and therefore, has a double
value in Longfellow's eyes.  As he holds it
in his hands and points out its various beau-
ties, one can but think what a crowd of pleas-
ant associations are gathering in its deli-
cate cup.
 In the dining-room we see rare old china,
a modern picture of a cardinal in red, walk-
ing in the Borghese Gardens, and several
family portraits.  Among them is Buchanan
Read's picture of "Longfellow's Daughter,"that has been photographed so often; the
"blue-eyed banditti" that the poet father
has so charmingly apostrophized in "The
Children's Hour:"
		"Grave Alice and laughing Allegra,
		And Edith with golden hair."
	The library is the most beautiful room in
the house; dark and rich in tone, with a
look of spacious elegance and home-like
comfort.  On three sides the walls are lined
with books.  The bronzes and screens are
studies. Here hangs a portrait of Listz.
The background is dark, and he is dressed
in the long black convent robe.  High
above his head he holds a lighted candle.
The rays shape themselves like a halo
round his head, and throw into fine relief
the thin, spirited face.  Mr. Longfellow
saw him thus for the first time as he stood
in the convent door peering out into the
night. The vision impressed itself upon
the poet, and he persuaded Liszt to have
his picture painted.
	Longfellow is now nearly seventy years
of age. He is of medium height, well-
made, with no sign of age in figure or walk.
His head and face are eminently poetic.
His forehead is broad, benignant and full.
The great charm of his face centers in his
eyes; of an unclouded blue, deep set, under
overhanging brows they hold an indescrib-
ble expression of thought and tenderness.
Though seamed with many wrinkles, his
face is rarely without the rosy hue of health,
and would appear that of a much younger
man but for its frame of snow-white hair.
Hair and whiskers are long, abundant and
wavy, and give the poet the look of a pa-
triarch.
	His manner has a child's simplicity, yet
is of an impregnable dignity.  Tolerant to
all opinions, courteous to all men, he is ap-
proached nearly by only the few.  When
with friends there is a dash of gentle hu-
mor in his talk more mirth-provoking than 
livelier sallies from wittier men.  In his
home his hospitality is proverbial.  Bret
Harte has called him the ideal poet, and
he is ideal host as well, entertaining with
gentle tact and exquisite courtesy.
 He is emphatically the poet of the beauti-
ful, and his life is as rounded and complete
as one of his own sonnets or a Beethoven
symphony.  He is not one of those great
men who must be seen, like an oil painting,
at a distance, but the nearer one approaches
the finer show the outlines and shadings of
his character.  He is still a great worker
composing with great care.  Time has taken
from him only the gold of his hair and
smoothness of his brow, and has given him
year by year, added grace, and sweetness,
and strength.  Wide-spread as his influence
has been, yet his mission has hardly begun;
for as long as the heart of humanity shall
beat, his voice shall be heard in tones of
music, singing words of consolation and
hope.—"Boston Times."


[Column 1]

	For the EXPONENT.
<ujy worshipped,="" anfyin,jwhich="" .they-had="" hoped="" and="" expected="" to="" admlriisferfor'="" their="" dead="" friends,="" receive.thd="" fuines3!of="" blessings.="" on="" the="" night;="" of="" 7th="" eebriiary="" i="" re-="" tired="" forest="" early,="" dreamed,="" thdt="" must="" gor.tb;="" the'="" temple;="" i-="" awokdiri="" the!="" night="" andlthought="" over="" my="" dream,="" went="" to'.sleep'="" ndslreamed.="" same="" thing="" againi="" arose:="" id="" morningrahcl="" wpnt="" about="" duties;,="" something="" seemed="" tell="" hae="" that="" gd="" down="" temple="" day;="" impression="" was="" very="" strong—i="" felt="" as="" if="" im-="" pelled,="" by.="" some="" hidden="" power.="" excuse="" for="" going="" iliad="" none;="" told="" dream="" feelings="" to:="" mother;="" she="" said="" could="" go="" down.while,="" .the="" ground="" frozen,="" but="" thought="" would="" have="" a="" bad!time="" getting="" home="" .through="" fcthd..m'ud="" in="" ,thb="" afternoon="" for.we="" lived="" one="" mile="" east="" temple,="" quite="" a;long="" walk,for="" me';="" resolved="" golandstarted="" way.="" wondered="" myself="" wifat="" there="" for,="" or;what="" 1="" make="" ’to="" those="" whom="" miglit-="" -ihcet="" appearance="" at="" such="" an="" inopportune="" time.="" last="" -i'ren&embdred="" bt'other-="" bolton="" and‘his="" wife;iwera="" staying="" there,="" that..they="" .had="" promised="" tq.gq.pyer="" ut="" jhe.roof="" with="" me,="" thisf="" ?ex.="" cuso="" enough.'="" when="" got="" there'="" bro.'="" bot-="" ctonwa="" busy="" wait1="" while..="" sisters="" -="" were="" jthat="" day="" washing="" cleaning="" upthohouse,="" preparatory="" fo="" leaving="" it;="" ih="" where="" (they="" -were="" washing;="" conversed,="" .-with="" 'sevoral="" acquaintanbcs="" -a="" si="" -sister="" dnd="" concluded="" togfr="" up="" unto'the="" steeple;="" walkedhr6tmd="" th'b="" domb="" outside,="" wrote="" nairie="" 'itf1="" several:="" places,="" “-among-fthe"="" thousands="" thatwere="" uueady="" 'therb="" caiho="" whore="" ‘bro.bol="" ton:="" still="" 'somewhat'="" excited,="" lortthe="" 'news="" jiad="" just="" been="" deceived'that="" be="" ferry="" hoat'loaded="" our:="" brdthren:and="" slstqrs="" had="" "sunk="" while="" 'crossing="" :thd'mississippi'="" elver.="" then="" wenf="" butomthe;="" roof'talbne,="" walked="" around="" viewed,="" tlib="" city!="" arid="" allits;.surroundibgvubth;="" wa31="" it="" was'="" time="" ado="" tbn.be="" tgolng’home'.="" sitting="" down.,="" uiusing="" observing,="" all="" onco="" notifcedih="" ilittl'o="" blub"="" streak="" like="" sm'okb="" coming-out="" from:'under="" thp="" shingles="" fclosa1="" wherfti="" frightencd="" me;'="" ardsq-="" in,="" jgreat="" thasfo="" andvari="" ueir="" bro.‘bolton;butvim<a="" second="" -i="" perhaps="" whs="" only;:the="" steam="" from="" the:="" hot="" wafer.="" the;="" yfero;at="" work,="" then.="" comprehended="" tot="" be)="" butj="" would;="" not="" nebdlessly="" 'alarm="" any="" one;="" so="" x="" returned;="" and.="" sati="" .down="" -aghin="" discover="" realityi.="" ‘temple="" fire="" ha="" niistake.="" hastened="" bro.="" bolton;="" hoonly="" laughed,="" 3tj6h="" thing!="" was.="" impcjssible:and="" notuevbh="" .see,="" until="" hi&wife="" .went="" rantbsaw="" sihoko="" curling="" oht="" ingreafclr-="" (cles;i'wiibh,(she="" told,="" him="" hq.started:="" i-a="" (hurry="" aa&r="" give="" alarm="" to,="" s'qtne.bhthe="" brethren:="" who'webc="" atwqrk="" the-bass-="" -ment.="" .="" bell="" rang,="" which,="" startled="" 'the-="" wholc.="" city;="" the.="" scene="" that.followed="" -bbggarsrdescriptiphj="" .did="" hothayft.="" pr.es-="" ience-:of="" ’mind="" enough,="" igest="" out'.ox;="" vtho="" hbusoi.="" beforo="" ‘="" iha="" way:="" wdsl="" cpinplete.ly="" thedgedmp,="" drid,-i="" obliged,="" staythere.="" thb="" brethren="" forjned="" in.="" two="" lines="" upi.the="" groat'winding="" stairs,="" one.tppass.the="" back-="" sets="" of:="" wdter="" hp="" thd="" .other="" toi="" carry="" cempty="" onekdown.="" thdmeantitaaaimqb="" ihaqcbllected="" outside:="" the:idoorffokeep="" water="" gding="" lb;,="" therpbllco="" had,tef="" come="" -to="" aid;="" erigagcddn="" extlhgulsh-="" -ingthfeflamos,="" befora="" tbey.cftuld="" disperse="" ithe'mj:="" -the="" midst="" this:="" confusionil="" lfiotlced'="" oldish="" woman="" rather="" anjalllin="" 'stature,="" tfres3ed"-in'="" darlo'rea:rclqth'esiirun-="" -fiihg="" heroyand="" wringing="" her.="" hands="" disappearing="" no="" onp="" k'ndw="" where<="" div="">
		
	A DREAM AND INCIDENT.

	My parents lived at Nauvoo and that was
my home. The incident I am about to re-
late occurred in the year 1846, just at the
time the Saints were moving out of Nau-
voo, and leaving their beautiful homes, and
the magnificent temple which they had
erected, at a great sacrifice, to the God they
worshipped, and in which they had hoped
and expected to administer for their dead

[Column 2]

friends, and receive the fulness of blessings.
On the night of the 7th of February, I re-
tired to rest early, and dreamed that I must
go to the Temple; I awoke in the night
and thought over my dream, went to sleep
and dreamed the same thing over again. I
arose in the morning and went about my
duties; something seemed to tell me that I
must go down to the Temple that day; the
impression was very strong—I felt as if im-
pelled by some hidden power. Excuse for
going, I had none; I told my dream and
feelings to my mother; she said I could go
down while the ground was frozen, but
thought I would have a bad time getting
home through the mud in the afternoon,
for we lived one mile east of the Temple,
and that was quite a long walk for me; but
I resolved to go, and started on my way. I
wondered to myself what I was going there
for, or what excuse I could make to those
whom I might meet for my appearance
there at such an inopportune time. At last
I remembered that Brother Bolton and his
wife were staying there, that they had
promised to go over the Temple and out on
the roof with me, and I thought this ex-
cuse enough. When I got there Bro. Bol-
ton was very busy and said I would have
to wait a while. The sisters were there
that day washing and cleaning up the house,
preparatory to leaving it; I went in where
they were washing, and conversed with
several acquaintances.
	Sister Bolton and I concluded to go up
into the steeple; walked around the dome
outside, wrote my name in several places,
among the thousands that were already
there, came down where Bro. Bolton was
still busy and somewhat excited, for the
news had just been received that the ferry
boat loaded with our brethren and sisters
had sunk while crossing the Mississippi
River. I then went out on the roof alone,
walked around there, viewed the city and
all its surroundings, until I was tired and
thought it was about time for me to be
going home. I was sitting down musing
and observing, when all at once I noticed a
little blue streak like smoke coming out
from under the shingles close to where I
sat. It frightened me; I arose in great
haste and ran to tell Bro. Bolton, but in a
second I thought perhaps it was only the
steam from the hot water where the sisters
were at work, then I comprehended that
could not be; but I would not needlessly
alarm any one, so I returned and sat down
again to discover the reality. The Temple
was on fire and no mistake. I hastened
down and told Bro. Bolton; he only laughed,
said such a thing was impossible, and would
not even go and see, until his wife went
and saw the smoke curling out in great cir-
cles; when she told him he started in a
hurry, and gave the alarm to some of the
brethren who were at work in the base-
ment. The bell was rung, which startled
the whole city; the scene that followed
beggars description. I did not have pres-
ence of mind enough to get out of the
house before the way was completely
hedged up, and I was obliged to stay there.
The brethren formed in two lines up the
great winding stairs, one to pass the buck-
ets of water up, the other to carry the
empty ones down. In the meantime a mob
had collected outside the door, to keep the
water from going in; the police had to come
to the aid of those engaged in extinguish-
ing the flames, before they could disperse
them. In the midst of this confusion, I
noticed an oldish woman, rather small in
stature, dressed in dark red clothes, run-
ning here and there wringing her hands
and at last disappearing no one knew where;


she was a stranger to all in the house, no
one could tell anything about her.
	Since I have been living in Utah I met
with Bro. Bolton; we were talking about 
that fearful circumstance, and he said he
could always see, in fancy, that woman;
she was always before his eyes, whenever
he thought of her; but he had never found
out who she was, where she came from, or 
why she was there.
	The fire, which was really alarming, was 
at length extinguished, the Temple saved,
and I had learned the meaning of my
dream. All this took place many years ago,
still the recollection is as bright and fresh
as if it had happened only yesterday.
	MATILDA P. KILLIAN.
Salem, Utah Co., May 23, 1877.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S DISFRANCHISEMENT
UNSCRIPTURAL.

	The following is an extract from a ser-
mon recently delivered in the Nineteenth
St. Methodist Episcopal Church, Philadel-
phia, by the pastor, Rev. T. M. Griffith:—
	We are profoundly impressed with the 
belief that Woman is not yet entirely liber-
ated from the bondage and oppression
which the selfish authority of Man, during
the dark ages, has imposed upon her. She
is not yet where the enlightened conscience
of the nineteenth century rightfully places
her. To say that man has the power and
ought to keep it, is the same kind of reas-
oning as is employed in the dominions of
the Sultan whose seraglios adorn the shores
of the Bosphorus. The same self-compla-
cent way of looking at things is employed
by the tyrant on his throne and the master
among his slaves. It belongs to Paganism
and Mohammedanism, but not to Chris-
tianity. The seed of the woman has come
to crush the serpent of opposition, the ser-
pent of injustice, and all other serpents
that bear the poison of sin in their hissing
heads.
	Many of the laws on the statute books of
the several States deny to a woman, in cer-
tain cases, the control of her own property,
or even her own hard-earned gains. More
than this, that very motherhood which the 
guardians of Man's prerogatives declare to 
be so sacred is invaded and outraged by
laws which rob the mother of her children.
Women's wages are so pitiably poor and 
mean that many are almost driven to star-
vation or the street, and that too because 
they are crowded into a few avenues of
employment and crowded out of others by
men, or deterred from entering them by
the frowns of society. Who gave us the
right, as men, to say to women, "There are
certain things you shall not do, even to
make an honest living!" What right, hu-
man or divine, have we to stand, like senti-
nels with pointed bayonets, at the polls, or 
any other of the gates of privilege and pow-
er, and say to one-half the inhabitants of 
the land, "Hither you must not come?"
	But, above all, what right have we to 
command Woman to keep quiet and retired,
to be shrinking and timid, to shut herself
up in her home, and hide her talent away
in a napkin? None, none whatever! The
Christianity for the times demands that all
the lovers of humanity, of both sexes,
should be employed for the world's re-
demption. Two-thirds of our church mem-
bers are women. In God's name, and for
His dear sake, as well as for the love of 
perishing souls, let us bring up this mighty
reserve army, and invite every woman to
a post of duty.

[Column 2]

	It is time to stop jesting at "Woman's
tongue," and time to consider whether that
tongue cannot speak the words of gospel
truth better than the stammering tongues
which some of us carry in our own heads.
We can remember how, when we were
children, we loved to listen to our mothers
when they talked to us. We all love to 
hear the tender voice of sister or sweet-
heart or wife; and we recognize the pecu-
liar charm of a woman's conversation.
Then let these tongues and these charms be
consecrated to the Lord! Let them be
given to Jesus! The Lord hath need of 
them, make way for them! Clear the track;
and let the beautiful feet of the Lord's
great company of waiting handmaids run
with the tidings of salvation to the very
ends of the earth.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	Apple Pie.—Take apples that are very tart,
slice thin; line a deep pan with rich crust, and
heap with sliced apples; sprinkle with sugar,
dredge flour over until white, grate in plenty of
nutmeg; put in half a teacup of hot water, cover
with crust and bake.
	Caraway Cake.—Take one pound of flour,
three-quarters of a pound of sugar, half a pound
of butter, a wine-glass of rose water, or some
other liquid, four eggs, and a half teacup of cara-
way seeds.  The materials should be well rubbed
together and beaten up.  Drop them from a spoon
on tin sheets, and bake brown in rather a slow
oven; twenty minutes or half an hour.  Unless
the eggs are very large scant the flour a little.


Scene—Library. Freshman:  "Where
shall I find Darwin's works?"  Librarian:
"What do you want with Darwin?"  Fresh-
man:  "I want his origin of species, so as to
find out something about this finance ques-
tion."


PIANOS & ORGANS
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged.  Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.
WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF 
WOOLEN GOODS,
SUCH AS 
TWEEDS, JEANS,
DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
LADIES' JACKETS,
STOCKINGS YARNS,
SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
LATEST STYLES OF 
FANCY WORSTED TIES,
Men's Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter, Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vine-
gar, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spoo[-] Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue,
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of Jamaica Ginger
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore
Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands, Sole
Leather and other Trunks, Gents Fine
Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
Table Salt Band Boxes and 
Dixie Cotton.
HOME-MADE WOOLEN BATTING,
NEW ZEALAND FLAX SEED.
DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter.
AGENT FOR 
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.
THE FINE ARTS.
The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
We will  them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
Send your orders to C. R. SAVAGE,
                           Salt Lake City, Utah.
Mrs. C. E. DYE,
Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of 
Millinery of any house in town.
Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium.  Do not forget
17, East Temple street.
TEMPLE OF FASHION.
Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a 
call.
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.
TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF 
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.
H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1877.	NO. 7.


[For the EXPONENT.
DOWN BY THE RIVER.

Sweetest memories throng my mind,
	As I muse upon a scene,
Where the joyous play of fancy,
	Lingers as o'er some fond dream,
I would tell to you the story,
	Listen softly for awhile,
'Tis a pleasing lovely picture,
	Which the saddest hours beguile.
It was down among the grasses.
	Dotted with the daisies bright,
That I often used to wander
	By the silvery pale moonlight.
Not a sound disturbed my dreaming
	But the constant river's flow,
With its shim'ring rippling waters,
	White and clear and pure as snow,
It was on a lovely evening,
	That I linger'd by this stream
With a dear companion near me,
	Fairer than the moonlight's gleam;
And our thoughts were fresh and tender
	And our hearts were all aglow
With the beauties of the hour.
	As we wander'd to and fro.
And the river with its murmur,
	Gently flowing through the dell,
In a deep and silent language
	Some wild legend seemed to tell.
And the music of its waters.
	Like a far off echos sweet.
Thrilled each pulse with holy feeling
	And the charm was most complete.
And when noon-day sun shone brightest,
	There beneath the tall trees shade,
With my friends and lov'd companions,
	Games of childhood oft I've play'd
And at evening hushed and holy
	When the lulling zephyr's sweep
At my mother's knee I whisper'd
	Now I lay me down to sleep.
Happy scenes of sunny childhood.
	All too bright and gay to last,
Yet around me ever hovers,
	Sweetest visions of the past.
		ANNA.
Aug. 25, 1877.


[Column 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

	PHILADELPHIA, PENN., Aug, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In receipt of your little paper, I can truly
say that I am pleased with it,—further I
am more than pleased. I find it a noble
effort in behalf of woman's advancement,
and it well deserves to take its place side
by side, with the yet few, but increasing,
earnest and effective exponents of the new
Evangel of this nineteenth century. In
the name of my sisters in the States, en-
gaged in this grand cause so dear to us all,
I send greetings and best wishes, for the
success of your worthy enterprise. It is
no small matter to keep a paper in existence
after it is born, and the effort to nurse it up
into the strong, healthful, potent life de-
sired for it, calls forth all the energy, perse-
verance and fertility of brain, in those who
have imposed upon themselves the noble
task.
	I am glad to have read the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, and am sorry not to have made an
earlier acquaintance with it. I am this
glad, and this sorry, for more reasons than
one,—the one particular reason being, that,
I have received light upon a subject in re-
gard to which, I was not only in the dark,
but in regard to which myself in common

[Column 2]

with the people generally in the States,
have been, as I now believe, deceived,—
that is, as to the condition of the women of
Utah, as woman and as citizen. After hav-
ing read the two articles in your July 15th
number "The Elective Franchise in Utah,"
and "Work for Women," on went my
thinking cap, and I assure you, I have come
frm under this utile piece of brain-gear
somewhat wiser than when I donned it. It
is the truth, and I am going to make a clean
breast of it, for there is no shame in being
misled, only in staying so in the face of
evidence, that the women of the States
have jumped at very unjust conclusions in
regard to their sisters in Utah. Upon a
"sealed book no one is able to pass judg-
ment" and certainly no one has a right in
public, where opinion is influenced, to com-
ment upon a subject in regard to which
they are ignorant. Who have been our
teachers I cannot say, but I confess that
the women here, in counting our victories
and in summing up the advance in re-
spect to the franchise of our sex, while
considering Wyoming as the first trophy
taken in the grand contest for the right, do
not look upon women suffrage in Utah as
worth a fillip. In fact we never speak of it
as we do of the first as a government for, of
and by the people, and we only and silently
once in awhile think of it as a government
wherein man is the tyrant and woman the
submissively tyrannized over—that each
man has not merely his own vote, but just
as many votes as he owns wives, and that
each woman is either an oriental doll or a
domestic drudge, with neither impulse nor
impetus towards an individualized exist-
ence, nor any other ambition than that of
pleasing her lord and rightful owner. In
short, that women are "driven like a flock
of sheep at the will of the driver."
	I have given you frankly an expose of
the opinion in the States of the position of
the women of Utah. May your able little
EXPONENT do the work of disproving what
I now truly believe to be erroneous in the
highest degree, and if well circulated, I
am confident that it has the power to do so.
	The question of woman's political status
is the first question—this once decided, her
other interests will regulate themseles;
and upon this question, should the women,
both of this land and over the seas, meet in
harmony and good faith.
	I hold that we Suffragists in the States
have nothing to do with the religious cou-
ditions, or the social tastes or condition of
our sisters in Utah, nor with those of each
other even, and it is to be regretted that
there are those, who do make it their busi-
ness to mix things up in this way.
	I will mail you samples of the tracts and
envelopes of the Citizen's Suffrage Associa-
tion an organization formed in 72—an off-
shoot of the older association, and the bold-
est, most uncompromising, most democrat-
ic of all—whose one tenet is Suffrage the
inherent right of the citizen of a Republic
—Universal Suffrage, irrespective of sex,
color, caste, creed, condition, the basis of a
true Democracy.
	I have just read your article in "Woman's
Words." Why not endeavor to show what
you are doing in Deseret through one of
our daily or Sunday papers, I am sure the

[Column 3]

would be very happy to publish anything
you might write.
	I shall look forward to the appearance of
your new book "The Women of Mormon-
dom."
	With the kindest wishes I remain your
sister in woman's cause,
	MRS. VIRGINIA BARNHURST.


NOTES AND NEWS.
A NEW discovery has been made of two
heavenly bodies thought to be satellites of
the planet Mars.  The discovery was made
on Thursday Aug. 23, at 11, p. m. by the
aid of the great telescope, by Prof. Hall of
the Washington Government Observatory.
Commodore Rogers has notified the astro-
nomical world of this new achievement of 
science.
 IT IS said that Russia has succeeded in
inducing Servia and Greece to simultane-
ously declare war against Turkey, also that
the Russians are concentrating on the river
Lomer, and that an attack on Kayrad is
thought to be imminent.  Mehomet Ali is
fortifying the place and has 40,000 men to
defend it.  Dispatches of Aug. 27, say that
from the manner in which the Russians
are pushing forward reinforcements to
Schippa Pass they must be confident of be-
ing able to resist any advance from the riy-
er Lomer.
 ON SATURDAY morning Aug. 25, about
3. 30, during a terrific rain and wind
storm the Union Pacific bridge at Omaha,
Neb. was so seriously damaged that it is
not possible to repair it in less than two or
three months, it is supposed to have been a
cyclone which struck it at the Eastern end
and about 500 feet of it was precipitated
into the river.  The piers are left standing
uninjured.  The loss is estimated at $350,
000.  Trains will probably have to transfer
passengers and freight by way of Platts-
mouth, Nebraska, and Missouri Valley.  It
has been proposed to put in a Howe Truss
over the break in the bridge.  If this can
be done successfully trians will be running
over the bridge inside of three months.
The debris is being rapidly cleared away.


GRAIN EXPORTS OF INDIA.—It may
startle some of our readers who have been
accustomed to think of India as a land of
forever-recurring famine, to learn that the
India export of wheat to England promises
at no distant day to make that peninsula
continent a formidable rival with our own
great West in the English markets. Yet
such is the fact. Since Lord Northbrook
took off the foolish export duty on grain
from India the grain trade from India to
England has risen from 144,441 cwt. in 1871
to 3,279,887 cwt. in 1876. Meanwhile the
export from Russia to England has been
falling, and India last year sent to Eng-
land one-third as much grain as Russia and
one sixth as much as the United States.
India now stands third in the list of coun-
tries which supply England with grain.
The bearing which this is likely to have on
England's final verdict as to her real inter-
est in the Eastern question is obvious
enough.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORT

CLIFTON; ONEIDA Co. Aug. 4th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
Our Society is in  flourishing condition.
The grain question was again brought be-
fore the sisters in our last meeting and
there was a unanimous vote carried, that
we exert ourselves to the utmost ability in
obtaining grain to lay up. The hoppers
have damaged the crops very badly but we
intend to work with the hope in view that
God will help those who help themselves.
 Our President has a fine son born on the
22nd of July. Mother and son are doing
well. Household duties occupy my time
pretty much but when tired and perplexed,
I find it a great comfort to spend a few mo-
ments in reading the EXPONENT. The ex-
cellent advice and hints to mothers should
not escape the notice of any mother in Zion,
for who is there among us that does not
need to learn much in relation to the rear-
ing of a family? 
 With best wishes I remain a sister.
				D. E. DUDLEY.

HYRUM, CACHE Co., Aug. 9, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 On Tuesday the 7th inst., the Relief So-
ciety of this ward held their ninth anniver-
sary meeting at 10 a. m. in the Public Hall,
which was very tastefully decorated by the
young ladies. There were present Elders
James Unsworth, Charles C. Shaw, Father
Benson, and H. J. Johnson. President
Christina Liljenquist called the meeting
to order and after the usual opening servi-
ces the Secretary, Nancy M. Neilson read
the financial report which showed that
$253,25 had been donated during the year.
Eleven quilts and a number of other arti-
cles had been made by the society. This
amount has been used for missionaries, for
the poor, given toward the temple etc., a
balance remaining in the treasury. The
Society has one hundred and sixty bushels
of wheat in the granary; also has shares in
the Co-op store and cash out on interest.
After reading the report the following offi-
cers were re-elected: Christina Liljenquist,
President, Christina Johnson and Ruth Mc-
Bride Counselors, Nancy M. Neilson, Sec-
retary, R. Allen Assistant Secretary, and
Keziah Allen, Treasurer. The meeting
was one of great interest; the remarks of
the brethren and sisters were replete with
good and wise counsel. The spirit of God
rested upon both speakers and hearers.
One of the brethren in his remarks said he
had during the past nine years been ac-
quainted with the labors of the society was
pleased with their course, and he had never
seen a better spirit manifested in a meeting
than he had felt was with them on that oc-
casion. It gave him great pleasure to see
the growth and improvement from year to
year. These actual facts explode the idea
that the Women of Utah are the down-trod-
den beings the world suppose them to be.
  A sumptuous, dinner wns served at 1.30,
p. m. to which a free invitation was ex-
tended to all the widows and poor of our
town. One hundred and fifty persons sat
down to dinner.
	Respectfully Yours,
		NANCY M. NEILSON
					Secretary.

		Honeyville July 17, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
I feel it a pleasure to have Calls Fort
have a name in the  Relief Society. I feel
this is a great work in which we are en-
gaged, and also that it is a great privilege
to be one to help to do all in my power to
assist in doing good. I hope we will im-
prove upon the talents which the Lord has
given to us; if we are not called to go into
the world to preach the Gospel, we can save
grain and do many things that will help
roll on the kingdom of God. We can be
careful and economical, and dress in a suit-
able and becoming manner, as saints and
women who delight to serve God and keep
His commandments.
	Sisters, let us quit following after foolish
and disgraceful fashions, and try to do the
will of our Father in Heaven, and see that
we have oil in our lamps, and be prepared
to receive the blessings in store for the
faithful.
	Our Society was organized by President
Harriet Snow and others from Brigham
City. We hold our meetings twice a month;
we feel our sisters have done well in the
past year. We have stored five hundred
and five bushels of wheat, and expect to
lay up still more.
		Your sister in the covenant, 
		HARRIED HUNTSUCKER.

  CLARKSON, CACHE Co, Aug. 8, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 The people here are enjoying the bless,
ings of health and general prosperity, for
which we feel thankful to God the Giver of
all good gifts. We have a new meeting
house, 56 feet by 134, 16 feet in the height
of ceiling; it is finished sufficiently so we
can meet in it. Our Bishop, John Jardine,
and the brethren have been diligent in their
efforts to build it, and the sisters of the Re-
lief Society have done a noble part towards
it, selling their butter and eggs to pay the
cash part of the expenses. We have a good
Sunday School, the children are now prac-
tising for the Jubilee, which is to be held
in Logan on the 25th of August. The sis-
ters of the Relief Society meet twice a
month to hold their meetings; they speak
words of comfort and encouragement to
each other, and try to accomplish all the
good possible, and take care of the poor and
sick, and help in every good work. We
number about thirty in our society at
present.
 Praying the Lord to bless each and every
one of us, that we may gain an exaltation
in the Celestial kingdom, we remain
	Yours in the Gospel,
	   MARY GRIFFIN, President,
		JANE GODFREY, Secretary.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
The Young Ladies’ Association of Nephi
are striving to do what is required of us,
that we may receive the blessings that God
has promised to bestow upon those who
love Him and keep His commandments.
 We meet together every Friday; we edit
a Weekly Journal that is entirely sustained
by the young ladies. Our meetings are not
as well attended as we would like them to
be, but all who do attend enjoy themselves,
and take pleasure in speaking and writing
upon the principles of our holy religion, for
we know that if we obey them they will
save and exalt us in our Father’s kingdom.
We held our second annual meeting on the
28th of June in the Social Hall, which was
decorated for the occasion. We were fa-
vored by a visit from Bishop Grover and
several other brethen, also from some of the
members of the Relief Society. After the
usual exercises had been gone through, our
Journal was read by the editor, after which

the brethren spoke on various interesting
subjects. They said we were improving,
and that our paper was a credit to us. They
spoke very encouragingly, and exhorted us
to continue to improve, that we might be
prepared for the responsibilities that will be
placed upon us if we are faithful in dis-
charging our duties. In the evening the
young ladies gave a social party, which was
satisfactorily managed by them. All
seemed to enjoy themselves. The pro-
ceeds from the party are to be used to buy
books to enlarge our library, for we are anx-
ious to procure good books that we may
improve our minds.
 On the 9th of July a special meeting was
called for our Association. President John
W. Young, Elder George Q. Cannon and
several of the local brethren were present.
 They spoke upon Plural Marriage and
the Word of Wisdom, and advised us to be
neat and clean, and learn to be good house-
keepers, and to cultivate a cheerful and
amiable disposition. They spoke of the
bad habits that some of the young men in-
dulge in—drinking liquors, using tobacco,
and taking the name of the Lord in vain.
They wished us to use our influence with
the young men, to try and induce them to
abandon their evil habits and live better
lives. President John W. Young called
upon us to vote that we will not counten-
ance the attentions of those who make it a
practise to get drunk and indulge in evil
practices. We voted that we will do all in
our power for the good of the young men,
and use our utmost influence, and with the
help of God we will remain firm in our
covenant. They gave us much practical
advice, and we realize that if we carry it
our in our daily lives we will be greatly
benefitted. We feel to thank them for
meeting with us, and we hope it will not
be the last time that they will favor us with
a visit.
	Hoping that God will bless all who are
trying to serve him, we remain, 
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		M. E. PICTON, President,
			S. A. HOYT, Secretary.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	It is not generally. known, I think that
George Eliot, though she has never written
a play for the stage, has yet had a hand in
more than one. Her husband, Mr. G. H.
Lewes, the philosopher, is the Mr. Savile
Rowe who has a piece at the Prince of
Wales’ running now, and he has more than
once announced a literary partnership. His
fellow author is his wife. George Eliot’s is
not a dramatic talent; but she is capable of
writing good dialogues, and her humor is
real comedy.
	TEACH THE CHILDREN.—Teach them 
that a true lady may be found in calico
quite as frequently as in velvet.
	Teach them that a common school educa-
tion, with common sense, is far better than
a college education without it.
	Teach them that one good honest trade,
well mastered, is worth a dozen beggarly
professions.
	Teach them to respect their elders and
themselves.
	Teach them that to wear patched clothes
is no disgrace.
	Teach them that God is no respecter of
sex, and that when He gave the seventh
commandment He meant it for them as
well as their sisters.
	Teach them that by indulging their de-
praved appetites in the worst forms of dis-
sipation they are unfitting themselves to
become the husbands of pure girls.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


IN GENERAL.

She wouldn't have on her naughty bib;
She wouldn't get in her naughty crib;
She wouldn't do this and wouldn't do that,
And she would put her foot in her Sunday hat,
And she wouldn't look over her picture book;
She wouldn't run out to help the cook;
She wouldn't be petted or coaxed or teased,
And she would do exactly whatever she pleased,
She wouldn't have naughty rice to eat; 
She wouldn't be gentle and good and sweet;
She wouldn't give me one single kiss—
Pray, what can we do with a girl like this?
—Ex.


THE BIRTHDAY.

BY LOUISE S. UPHAM.

Another darling baby,
	A household pet and joy,
A smiling, dimpled treasure,
	A precious baby boy!

With love we greet the stranger,
	Our hearts with bliss are mute;
And joy and hopeful gladness
	Are ours beyond compute.

So helpless and so fraglic,
	Our tender floweret seems,
We muse, "Is this more real
	Than other pleasant dreams?

"Or shall we wake, some morning,
	To find a rifled nest,
And weeping, feel that birdie
	Is thus more truly blest?"

Father, we crave Thy blessing
	For this dear little one;
We pray for grace to help us
	Perfect the life begun.

With Virtue's shining halo
	Encircle his fair brow,
And raise him up to manhood,
	Spotless and pure as now.

Father, Thy gift we cherish;
	We thank Thee for our son;
Thine here, or thine in Heaven,
	We'll say, "Thy will be done!"

		SELECTED.


[Column 1]
	For the EXPONENT.
PIPSEY PAPERS.

	How small and weak I am, lying here so
helpless, and thinking of the strong, brave
things I should like to do. My fancy goes
out to the far future and weaves bright
pictures, and dreams fair dreams, of things
longed for, and hopes whose fruition may
never be realized. It takes labor, and deep
thought, and steady purpose to accomplish
any great good, or arise to eminence in any
particular calling. I am not lacking in per-
severance, in forethought, in will to do,
but my puny strength is so weak for the
task that is laid before me. The ordinary
cares and responsibilities of life call my at-
tention, fill up my time, and use the
strength of both mind and body until there
is but little left to battle with the higher
laws of nature. And yet my life is not a
blank: there may have been a lack of music
and poetry, but there is much in the prose
of all lives that is noble and good. There
is depth and pathos and fervor. There is
sweetness and tenderness that imprints the
heart, and a grand sublimity that awakens 
the echoes of old time music in our soul,
and resounds to a higher impulse than the
lyric strains of a mere rhythmical sensation.
How little we know as we are plodding
among the interminable cares and perplexi-
ties of the dull routine of daily life, the
bright possibilities that lie in the future.
	We live two lives. One, the outer life,
which appeals to the grosser sensibilities of
our nature, is filled with the daily routine
of duties, the household affairs, the care

[Column 2]

and annoyances consequent on the sur-
roundings in which we are placed. The
other is a dream life, filled with the higher
aspirations of our hearts. The bright im-
aginations with which we are wont to while
away the tediousness of mending Johnny's
torn jacket. There is no romance in the
dirty jacket, but with what a halo we en-
circle the curly head that is now nestled
down with its sweet face pressing the pil-
low which our hands have made clean and
fresh. We weave in imagination a bright
future for the little fellow, following him
forth a stalwart man battling with the pos-
sibilities of life, winning honor and renown,
holding high resolves, and bringing us
comfort and joy in our life's decline. Alas!
how often are our dreams but idle ones. I
saw a stricken lamb, the pride and comfort
of his parents and friends, a child of rare
promise, handsome and intelligent: a bruise
on the arm, a ride in the hot sun, and in
nine days the mortal remains of little Peter,
putrid and sickening, was all that was left
to tell of the terrible struggle death had
ere he came off conqueror. How little we
know when our beautiful ones will be
snatched from us; and how careful we
should be to attend to wounds, lest they
should prove more serious than we think
they are. God gives us the little ones to
cherish and protect, let us then lead them
forth with kind instructions and good ex-
amples, to fit them for the higher duties of
life, that our beautiful dreams may not be
vain ones. That one day the curly heads
that now nestle so fondly to our bosoms
may be held proudly, and the feet may
tread firmly the paths of honor, and the
laws of life and progress be carried out.
	How many pure hearts and bright spirits
have gone forth into the world innocent
and lovely, but the contaminating influence
of surrounding circumstances, vicious as-
sociations, a false step, and lo! the mind is
corrupted, the heart becomes impure, and
no skill or wisdom can save them from deg-
radation fouler than the corruption of death,
and deeper than the silence of the grave.
	MARY.
PROVO, Aug., 1877.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	TOOLE CITY, Aug. 13, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have often thought I would like to
mingle my voice with the rest of my sis-
ters through the columns of the EXPONENT,
and having a few moments for reflection I
will try to express myself on a subject dear
to my heart.
	I cannot but thank my Heavenly Father
for reserving my spirit until the last days,
so that I can become useful in helping to 
build up the Kingdom of God. I used to
feel as if everything was a sealed book to
me, but I am happy to say that through
obedience to the will of God I can under-
stand to a great degree that which I hear
and read. A man or woman guided by the
spirit of God can understand for them-
selves that the principles of the Gospel are
true. My own experience has taught me
more than all the world can do, and no one
can take that knowledge from me if I do
the will of my Father which is in heaven;
He has promised that if we faithfully obey
His commandments, we shall know that our
Redeemer lives and intercedes for us. If
we allow ourselves to feel unhapy and de-
sponding we are yielding to evil influences,
and we forget ourselves and our holy mis-
sion here. The sooner we retrace our steps


the better it will be for us, for the adver-
sary is always on the alert to take advan-
tage of our weaknesses, so it behooves us
to be on our guard. The Lord will never
forsake us if we do not grieve His Holy
Spirit. When we are tempted and tried,
let us enter our closets and tell our Heav-
enly Father our troubles, and if we go with
a humble and contrite spirit. He will for-
give us our sins. Dear sisters let us obey
all the counsels of our beloved President
Brigham Young, whether it is in saving
grain for a future day, or raising silk or any
thing else that he may call upon us to do.
Let us strive to become self-sustaining and
aim to make ourselves useful as well as or-
namental, and if we cultivate His holy
spirit, God will lead, guide, and direct us in
all righteousness.
	We receive the EXPONENT regularly and
it is read with interest.
	A. TATE.


CORRESPNDENCE.

	FAIRVIEW, Aug. 7, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In your issue of Aug. 1st, I notice an ar-
ticle entitled "A word to the young people
of Zion." As we do not all look at one sub-
ject from the same standpoint I sometimes
think that the older people are as much to
blame as the young, and in consideration
thereof I offer you a few of my ideas if
you have space for them in your valuable
paper.
	The subject of instructing the young and
to caution them against what would prove
detrimental to them in the future, is cer-
tainly one of the most noble acts that a hu-
man being could perform. But how to ac-
complish the desired result is a matter that
may call for much thought, time and study.
	In my humble way of reasoning I have
always thought that the best mothers would
be examples, this connected with earnest-
ness, kindness and love to such an extent
that it might be felt, yes, seen by the young,
could not fail to do much to elevate man-
kind. But what effect will preaching the
Word of Wisdom have upon the sons when
the father makes use of those things
(against which he preaches) not only for his
own gratification, but, even, as bribes or in-
ducements before his sons to accomplish
his work in the harvest-field canon, and so
forth. Or of what service will a sermon
against profane language be to a man's fam-
ily who himself indulges in the degrading
—not to use a harsher term—practice? And
cannot any intelligent woman see that she
will never be able to undo the evil she
brings upon her daughters when she speaks
in one way before a person's face and in
another behind her back?
	If the minds of the young were not such
that they rather look at our actions and pat-
tern thereby, than to reason for themselves,
all these things might be over looked; but
as it is I would say to my brethren and sis-
ters, show us by your actions what you be-
lieve and the good you will, through the
aid of God, accomplish for the future good
and happiness of mankind, will be a star in
your crown in the great day of our Lord
and Savior.
	A. M. N.


ZEALOUSLY keep down little expenses
and you will not incur larger ones.
	A COLLEGE education does not cost as
much as a piano. Let no girl believe she
has no opportunity to become well educat-
ed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS. . . . Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
				Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, SEPT. 1, 1877.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG.

Sweet sleep, sweet rest, enwrap his mortal clay,
The soul now freed—breathes in an ampler day
And we but twine the cypress-wreath in vain,
For our great loss, is his eternal gain.

	The beloved Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, so
dear to the heart of every true Latter-day
Saint, this great, good and wise man has left
this mortal sphere, and gone to join the pro-
phet Joseph and others behind the veil, who
have been in times past associated with him
in establishing the kingdom of God on the
earth in this last dispensation. The announce-
ment of his death will cast a shadow of grief
over the whole Territory of Utah. There is,
perhaps, no man in the world so greatly and
truly beloved, and none whose loss will be
more deeply felt than President Brigham
Young. He departed this life at one minute
past four o'clock, p. m., on Wednesday, Aug.
29,surrounded by his wives, children and friends
whom he had ever so tenderly loved and cher-
ished. Words are weak to express the esteem
and honor in which he was held by this peo-
ple. Thousands and tens of thousands will
mourn for him with sincere love and grief. In
the fullest sense of the word he was a father
to the Latter-day Saints, and his memory can
never be effaced from their hearts. It is writ-
ten there in characters imperishable. He was
a friend to all men and women who were hon-
est and true, of whatever nation or creed, and
the benefactor of all, who would be guided by
his wise and judicious counsel and precept.
	Undoubtedly he was one of the greatest men
that ever tabernacled in the flesh. His work
has been a magnificent one, and the record of
his life so full of great and good works is writ-
ten indelibly in unmistakable characters
throughout the length and breadth of Utah, a
living monument forever to the name of BRIG-
HAM YOUNG.
	Foremost among the many strong points in
the character of this illustrious man were those
inestimable, genial, social and affectional
qualities of heart that attract and draw out the
warmest senitments of attachment in the fam-
ily and social circles.
	President Young was an indefatigable and
earnest worker for improvement and progres-
sion; a man of strong personal influence and
spiritual strength, adapted by nature and soul
for all the exigencies and necessities of the
work which devolved upon him as the success-
or of Joseph Smith.
	The people of this entire Territory and of the 
church and kingdom of God throughout the
world, will mourn his loss sincerely, remem-
bering his many and wise instructions, and
cherishing in their inmost hearts the most sa-
cred remembrances of him, not only as their

[Column 2]

pioneer leader, but as their brother and friend,
and a man of God.
	As husband, father, brother and friend his
record has few, if any parallels.
	As a great leader, diplomatist, and statesman
he lives immortalized in the world's history;
and the principles and opinions he held and
taught in regard to organization and co-oper-
ation were more perfect in theory than any
ever introduced; and if systematically carried
out on the broad and solid platform suited to 
his idea, would bring about a state of things
that would give permanence and security to
governmental and business transactions.
	Brigham Young was a native of New Eng-
land, and was born in the town of Whiting-
ham, Windham County, Vermont, on the 1st
day of June, 1801, but his father subsequently
removed to Mendon, Monroe County, New
York. He was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints April 14th,
1832, although he had heard and believed the
Gospel some time previous. From that time
until the present; his labors have been active
and unceasing in the work revealed from heav-
en to Joseph Smith. When the Twelve Apos-
tles were chosen his name was next to that of
Thomas B. Marsh, President of the quorum,
and when after a few years Marsh apostatized,
Brigham Young succeeded him as President
of the Twelve.
	Brigham Young, although he has past be-
hind the veil and we shall behold his face no
more, lives in the hearts of his people, and
will be perpetuated through the principles he
taught, which will yet be more fully devel-
oped in the lives and practice of the Latter-day
Saints. Brigham Young was the true friend
of Woman's enfranchisement and progression.
Volumes might be written of his life, his char-
acter, his many excellencies, and yet not the
half be told of this marvelous man, the won-
der of this nineteenth century.
	For Brigham Young no eulogium is needed,
everywhere his works praise him, and are
wreathed about his memory with a halo of ten-
derness as a crown of glory.


THE WOMAN'S GRAIN MOVEMENT
			IN UTAH.

CHARITIES AND INDUSTRIES.

 The season for storing up grain has now ar-
rived.  The gleaners are in the fields, and
many of the daughters of Zion have gone
forth to gather the scattered wheat left by the
harvesters. How noble for those who have
homes full of plenty and to spare to go into
the open fields in the hot sunshine and gather,
little by little, a few kernels to store away.
And for the poor sisters who have gone and
gleaned, who shall say it shall not be account-
ed unto them, in the great day of reckoning,
more than a garner full given by the rich, who
have a profusion of means and do not realize
the giving.
	The world may ridicule the idea of Mormon
women storing up a little handful of grain.
Does not the same God live to-day that gave
unto Elisha the prophet power to multiply the
widow's oil in the days of old?  And, that sent
Elijah to the widow of Zarephtath and found
her gathering sticks, and when he asked her to
fetch him a little water to drink and a morsel
of bread to eat, she answered, "As the Lord
thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but an hand-
ful of meal in a barrel, and a little oil in a
cruse: and behold, I am gathering two sticks,
that I may go in and dress it for me and my
son, that we may eat it and die."  All who
have read the Scriptures know how the meal
and the oil were increased until the day that
the Lord sent rain upon the earth.  The same
God has charge concerning His people now,
and has a tender and special care for the wid-
ows and fatherless.  It is the humble and meek
and lowly that the Lord loves.  The Savior
chose for his associates and companions the
poor, and he pronounced upon them the choic-
est blessings.
	This year there is an abundant harvest of
grain, and it will be well for the Latter-day
Saints if they remember to listen to the coun-
sel which has been given by President Brig-
ham Young in regard to laying up grain, and
seek with all diligence to carry out his wishes,
so plainly expressed, telling the sisters to go to
work and unite together and co-operate and
store up grain.
	There is testimony upon testimony that such
a course will be wise, the very fact of the re-
cent famine in India is one strong argument
to the thinking mind, and the great Eastern
war, which seems likely to involve all the na-
tions of Europe, is of itself sufficient to war-
rant all peoples, while peace and plenty reign,
to prepare for future emergencies.
	The women of this church should be earnest
and active in all charities which are designed
to bless and comfort and improve the condition
of the human family; and to keep alive the in-
terests, and inspire with zeal and ardor those
who are engaged in any noble enterprise, de-
pends invariably upon the few.  It is the few
who carry the heavy burdens in any public
matter for the good of humanity.  It is the
few workers, real and effective, who shoulder
the responsiblities and roll on the true mech-
anism that brings about successful results, or
solves any difficult problem.
	In the industries established in Utah has it
not been the few who have exerted themselves,
using their time, means, and influence, while
the majority have stood still, remained indif-
ferent, or sought their own individual interest
and welfare, independent of the good and well-
being and future prosperity of the kingdom of
God, or the Territory of Utah?
	If the sisters would unite together, more of
them, and concentrate their efforts systemati-
cally, they could almost do anything they
wish to do in the right direction.  Humility
and faith with obedience to counsel will be
sure to bring down the special blessings of
heaven upon the good and great work com-
menced by the women of Utah.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE DESERET University commenced its
regular session, Monday, August 27, with its
former corps of teachers. Dr. J. R. Park,
Principal. The Academic year is divided into
four terms of ten weeks each. There are three
departments in the University—the Prepara-
tory, the Normal, and the Academic.
	MR. J. H. Elward, of St. Paul, Minn., called
at our office and spent an hour in conversation
with us on woman's work, the topics of the
day, and the ideas of different persons on the
immortality of the soul. Mr. Elward is the
inventor and proprietor of the "Elward Har-
vester," which has become general in use
throughout the country. He expressed him-
self pleased with the city and its many indus-
trial and other improvements.
	MISS M. E. Cook's Graded School in the
Social Hall will commence on Monday, Sept.
3d. This school is now fairly established on a
systematic scale of gradation. The building
has been newly fitted up, outside and inside,
and a new picket fence, new stairs and fresh


paint add much to the appearance of this Hall,
which was one of the first places built in the
Territory for a public use, and there are some
pleasant associations connected with the Social
Hall, which render it very dear to many of the 
pioneer saints.

	WE SEE in our exchanges much upon wo-
man's work in temperance, and we have also
had pamphlets, notices and letter sent us
from different places, regarding the labor actu-
ally performed in this good cause.  Ladies of
influence and position are earnest and active
in seeking to suppress, by some means, the
sale of ardent spirits.  The "Dunken Bill,"
presented in the Parliament of Great Britain,
it is ardently hoped by all interested in tem-
perancees will become a law.  This law requires
that not less than five gallons of liquor be sold
at a time.  Are not the women of Utah capa-
ble of taking gold of this matter, efficiently
and actively, and present a Bill to the Leg-
islative Assembly, which will meet the com-
ing winter-the first Monday in January?  This
subject has been under consideration now for
some time, and if it is possible for any regula-
tion to be brought about that will further this
good cause, may God speed woman and man
in the good work.

	MR. TULLIDGE'S new work, "The Women of 
Mormondom," is now fairly launched upon
the market.  This new and interesting book is
for sale at the Woman's Commision House,
price $3.00.  We would like to give our read-
ers a few choice and most brilliant paragraphs
from it, upon the woman question, that ques-
tion being one of the most popular subjects of
the times, both in America and Great Britian.
In the 59th chapter, page 516, you will find the 
following: it is most emphatic and prophet-
cal; and peculiarly adaptable to the spirit of 
the day:
The age of Messiah's coming is the woman's
age! or there is no sense in the utterances of
prophecy, nor meaning in the most beautiful
parables of Christ.
	And this is the woman's age! all humanity
is proclaiming it!
	The women of the age are obeying the im-
pulses of the age.  Do they know what those
impulses mean?  They have heard the cry and 
come forth.  Do they comprehend what that 
cry has signified?--'Behold, the Bridegroom
cometh; go ye out to meet him!"
	Unwittingly they are testing the Scriptures
and proving that the coming of the Messiah is 
the crowning truth of the world.  However
the five wise virgins of Zion are coming forth
in faith.  They are now unwittingly fulfilling
their Lord's word.  They have interpreted the
cry, and are trimming their lamps.
 Man may as well attempt to throw back
the ocean with the hollow of his hand, or put
out the sun with the breath of his command,
as to attempt to defeat the on-coming of 'Wo-
man's hour.'
	Let the God of humanity be praised for 
this; for did not the virgins come out at this 
eleventh hour, the fisherman might go to their
nets, and let the midnight pass, and earth
take the consequence.
	But how wondrously are the divine themes
of earth's grace from God revealed.  Down
through the ages they came, as echoes mel-
lowed into more celestial tones.
	Creation begins again! Zion-the New
Jerusalem-is the saint's bride.  She is the
coming Eve."  The author then makes a 
quotation from the Revelations of St. John,
concerning the new heaven and the new earth
and the marriage supper of the Lamb, and
proceeds as follows:
	"Truly there is a glorious prophesy and a 
sublime truth, hallelujahed from the ages down
in this proclamation of  woman's mission
at the hour of the Lord's coming.
	The lives of the Mormon women are as a 
testament to the age.  The very character
which their church has taken, as the literal
Zion of the latter-days, shall soon be recog-
nized as the symbol of the hour.
 And the virgins in every land shall hear
the cry, 'Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go
ye out to meet him!"
	The author reasons well upon new civiliza-
tion in his closing chapter.
	"New civilizations are the chiefest boons of
humanity. Never was a new civilization more
needed than now, for in the last century the
world has rushed over the trackway of a thou-
sand years.  A train dashing forward at the 
rate of one hundred miles an hour would not
be in more danger than will soon be society,
unless a safety valve-a new civilization-is 
opened.
	This is the woman's age.  The universal
voice of society proclaims the fact. Woman
must, therefore, lay the corner-stone of the
new civilization.  Her arm will be most potent
in rearing the glorious structure of the future.
Man cannot prevent it for it is a divine intend-
ing." 
	These are the author's closing remarks: "We 
have seem the daughters of Zion, with her
sons, establish their institutions upon the 
foundation of new revelation.  We have seen
them rearing temples to the august name of
the God of Israel.  We have seen their match-
less faith, their devotion, their heroism.
	We have seen them because of their fidelity
to their religion, driven from city to city and
from State to State.
	We have seen them in the awful hour of
martyrdom.
	We have seen them in the exodus of mod-
ern Israel from Gentile civilization, following
their Moses.
 The daughters of Zion were going up to
the chambers of the mountains, to hide from
the oppressor till the day of their strength.
Their banners were then their pioneer whips.
Their banner now is female suffrage-on it in
scribed, "Woman's Rights! in the name of the 
God of Israel!'
	Fifty thousand of the daughters of Zion!
Each with her banner!
	We have seen them on the cross with their
crown of throns. We SHALL see them on their
throne, with their crown of glory.  In this is
divine and everlasting justice.
	They have sown in tears, they shall reap in
gladness.
	With their pioneer whips in their lands
they came up to the chambers of refuge, as 
exiles.
	With the sceptre of woman's rights, they
will go down as apostles to evangelize the 
nation.
 "'Who is she that looketh forth as the morn
ing, fair as the moon, clear as the sun and ter-
rible as an army with banners?'
	"The Daughter of Zion!"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER TO MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG.

	WATERTOWN, NEW YORK.
		July 30th, 1877
MY DEAR NIECE:
	For a long time I have wanted to return
many thanks to some kind donor, for sending
me the excellent little paper, the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. I have been much interested in
reading it.


I like your idea of home manufacture; you
seem to be making and inventing almost every-
thing that is useful and beautiful. I have
been very much interested in reading of your
silk manufacturing business; if it is carried to
perfection it will be almost invaluable. My
father once went into the silk culture; I was
at home a number of times while he was in
the business, and often saw the big worms eat-
ing their dinner from the mulberry leaves; it
did not seem to me I could ever handle them,
father and mother would pick the dear things
up so carefully and carry them from one bunch
of leaves to another, as tenderly as I would
handle the most delicate little baby. I never
had a dress from the manufactory, but I had
some very good sewing silk, that was the most
that my father manufactured. If you answer
this letter, which I very much hope you will,
will it be too much trouble to send me a little
specimen of dress silk? I see by the EXPO-
NENT that ladies have had dresses made from
your home manufacture, and it will much
oblige your old auntie. I was eigthy-three the
8th of last May—am living on borrowed time,
yet my general health is qnite good, can write,
read, knit, and do fine sewing; have not
strength to walk much, but love dearly to ride
in an easy carriage. As far as I know the
Huntington relatives are all enjoying usual
health. On the 7th of July my brother Cyrus,
the only brother I have living, and he is sev-
enty-six years old, celebrated the fifty-third
anniversary of his marriage, by having a fam-
ily gathering, which was a delightful one to
all present. He has four children, three sons
and one daughter; two of the sons are physi-
cians, one a farmer, and the daughter is the
wife of a wealthy farmer; the youngest was
killed in the rebellion. I must close this long
epistle by saying I do not expect to be here
many years more, God only knows. I feel
that I have a home in those mansions not
made with hands, eternal in the heavens. It
is twenty-five years ago to-day since my good
husband died. Mary unites with kind regards.
Please remember us to Dimick and wife.
	MRS. J. P. KIMBALL.


OBITUARY.
 Brigham Young Woodruff, son of Wilford
Woodruff, Sen., and Sarah Brown Woodruff,
was accidentally drowned at Logan, June 16,
1877, leaving many sorrowing relatives and
friends to mourn the loss of his kind and amia-
ble society. He was born January 18, 1857.
He was a young man strictly temperate in all
his habits, and particularly observant of all
the requirements made of him in the church,
and  an active member in the 14th Ward Sun-
day School. To know him was to love him.
He has many friends, and just previous to his
departure for the northern settlements, where
he was going fully prepared with intellectual
as well as exemplary instruction to take a 
school, to which position he had been appoint-
ed, he bade many of his friends good bye, and
left a pleasant "God bless you" for them all.
His relatives and friends find consolation in
the knowledge that though his young life, so
full of hope, had passed away so early, God
had a greater mission for him to fill beyond
the veil, and our Father calling he obeyed,
leaving as fair a name and record as any young
man could possibly desire. He died in full
faith of the Gospel, to come forth in the morn-
ing of the First Resurrection.
B. W. B.


GOOD words, like dew-drops, fall silently;
but who can tell their effects?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A MORMON WOMAN'S VIEW OF 
		MARRIAGE.

BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

 It is known to the world far and wide
that the Latter-day Saints believe in direct
revelation.  Through this channel (revela-
tion) they obtained the knowledge of the
principles of plural marriage and in no oth-
er way would pure and devotional women,
who had been educated and traditionated
in the ideas of the present age accept it. It
is truly the sacred phase of polygamy
which gives it prestige.
 The law of Celestial Marriage given to
Joseph Smith was a renewal of the same
order of matrimony practiced by the peo-
ple of God in ancient times.
 The angels sent to deliver the message
and these keys of knowledge, informed the
prophet Joseph that this holy order was
that which had existed forever, by which
men and women could become exalted; that
through no other covenant could they ob-
tain crowns and kingdoms, principalities
and eternal lives in the world to come, but
would be ministering servants to those who
had through obedience to this and all other
holy ordinances, obtained the fulness of
blessings and prepared themselves to enter
upon a higher plane.
 By this solemn covenant men and wo-
men could be joined together for eternity;
and only upon this principle could men take
more wives, or be sure of receiving again to
themselves their companions who had died
previous to their receiving a knowledge of
this law, except through this direct chan-
nel and power vested in the Holy Priest-
hood; which priesthood is after the order of
Melchizedek, to which reference is made
many times in the Old and New Testament.
This revelation was not given to be played
with, or as an idle saying, but as a com-
mandment from God; and one which in-
volved the most solemn obligations and re-
lationships.
The taking of more wives increases in a
very great degree a man's responsibilities;
not only is he bound to cherish them ten-
derly with his holiest and best affections;
but he should esteem them as precious jew-
els committed to his charge, for which he
must render an account of his stewardship
at the highest tribunal of Justice.  And it
would be well for the world to consider
that it was with a knowledge of all that
would be required, that Joseph Smith and
his brethren entered upon the practice of
the higher law.
 Any person conversant with the Holy
Scriptures may easily comprehend that even
David, although he was king over Israel,
received his wives at the hand of Nathan
the prophet, the one who held the keys of
this holy order of matrimony.  Through
this direct lineage the Savior descended;
yet the people in this so called enlightened
day look upon plural marriage as unholy
and seek to pass laws and devise ways and
means to criminate those who practice the
patriarchal form of marriage.  In ancient
days men and women talked with God and
were likely to understand His will.  To
look at the condition of the world, all who
make science a study may see that there is
some grievous misapplication of the laws of
life. People look on and try to find out
the cause, some will say women ruin their
health, consequently their offspring, with
their mode of dress, with dissipation, with
this or that excess, but they pass blindly
over the great primal cause, viz. the im-
proper, unjust and unholy marriage regula-
tions.  Men and women had so far degener-
ated from the true standard that they were
incapable by their own wisdom to arrive at
any succesful solution of the great problem
of life.
 Therefore God in His infinite wisdom re-
vealed to those who had proved their in-
tegrity to Him, by promulgating the Gos-
pel of truth, the law of Celestial Mar-
riage, and remember when He did so, it
was with a knowledge of the true science
of life; He knew that it would be an inno-
vation that men who were wise after the
manner of the world would not receive be-
cause of its unpopularity.  He inspired the
mind of Joseph Smith to make it known to
a few, those few, men and women of strict
moral principle, who had proven themselves
ready to die if necessary in the vindication
of truth.  They feared to disobey God more
than man.
 Religion according to its acceptation in
the nineteenth century relates to a spirit-
ual life only, and applies to spiritual works;
but TRUE religion covers all the ground of
one's temporal, as well as spiritual life
from the cradle to the grave, and reaches on
to eternal progression, and should enter into
the pre-natal influence of every mother
who is cognizant of the importance of bear-
ing the souls of men.  In many instances
it is pre-natal influences which stamp
themselves irremediably upon offspring so
that no after cultivation can wholly eradi-
cate the evil result.  If women desire to
bear children who will be able to perpetuate
themselves in races that will be honorable
and endurable, they should choose for their
companions, and the father of their off-
spring men of correct moral principle, who
fear God and strive to keep His laws.  It
is useless to tell women that they must
control and discipline themselves during
maternity in order to have wholesome and
superior children, if the husband is not pure
as well as the wife; for though the wife be
purity itself (if that were possible,) the
father if wicked and corrupt, stamps his na-
ture and temperament sufficiently upon his
offspring to contaminate the fountains of
life. An adulterated spring sends its poi-
sonous influence down through all its ave-
nues, and though scarcely perceptible, yet
the taint is there and impregnates those
who partake.  Grapes are not produced
from thorns nor figs from thistles.
	The world acknowledge that women sur-
pass men in innate purity, and if they
would preserve themselves pure through
their offspring, let them exact similar puri-
ty of the man with whom they unite in the
most sacred covenant ever consecrated, that
which is to be the promoter of a new life,
and perpetuate the human family.  Are
men who are unwholesome and dissipated
fit to become fathers?  Yet such men mar-
ry; and they never choose women of their
own caste, Oh no! a breath of suspicion
must  not shadow those whom they would
consign to lives of misery and degradation.
Women who have preserved themselves
chaste as the angels, whose offspring would
have been pure and sound, unite them-
selves with men who entail upon their
posterity such appetites and passions, as no
amount of self-denial, or discipline on the
part of the mothers, or after cultivation can
ever wholly obliterate.  When fathers
learn that God requires them to be pure as
well as the mothers, they will have ad-
vanced somewhat in the lessons of life.  God
knew that women were better prepared
than men to keep this higher law and that
there were more devotional women whan
men, and he desired them to become moth-
ers to bear a righteous and holy seed who
would serve Him, therefore He introduced
again the patriarchal form of marriage, and
gave to men who would abide His law the
privilege of having more wives, and He
will through this holy order purify men
and women and there will be at least a few
who will become a "fit temple for the Holy
Spirit to dwell in."  But God never gives a
law that has not a penalty attached if it is
broken, and the higher the law the more
fearful the consequences of breaking it.
Therefore those who desire to obtain the
promises, and higher exaltation must live
according to the requirements of this high-
er law, and will be called upon to make the
sacrifice of a broken and contrite heart not
after the spiritualized signification but lit-
erally.
 We are frequently asked the question
whether polygamy does not tend to indif-
ference in the marriage relations, or from
the very nature of the circumstances be-
come alienated in their affections.  We can
answer truthfully, No!  Plural marriage
makes woman more the companion and
much less the subordinate than any other
form of marriage; and when women have
learned to be self-reliant and self-sustain-
ing, and comprehend that in marriage
there is a higher purpose than being a man's
pet or even housekeeper, they will if edu-
cated in the most refined womanly sense,
choose to become the wives of men who are
living for lofty purposes, and their love
will partake more of the exalted tone and
sentiment, and their children become more
spiritual and inherit the elements of a high-
er nature.  It is grossly absurd to say plural
marriage is a sin in the sight of heaven when
we have abundant testimony before us, that
God has blessed this people in a most won-
derful manner ever since its practice.  More
than this, physicians, men of science, and
phrenologists have all failed to discover in
the children born in plural marriage any
inequalities, or lack of brain, or muscle and
fibre that would characterize children born
of unsuitable parentage.  There is a wide
field of knowledge open before us, and we
have only just begun to learn the true laws
of life, but if we keep ourselves pure and
humble, God will teach us how to overcome
all evil and obtain the exaltation promised
to those who will abide in the new and
everlasting covenant.
	S. L. City, Aug. 1877.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	"THE oldest Bible in America, printed in
1495," was treasured and guarded at the 
Exhibition in a strongly framed class case.
	SMOKY STATISTICS.—The Boston Post
says that 8,000,000 cigars are smoked in
this country every day. When we consid-
er that there are over 8,000,000 voters in 
this country, and there are probably 15,000,
000, males from 16 to 90 years of age, we
are inclined to think that the estimate is
not too large. For every man who does not
somke at all we may estimate one who
smokes more than one cigar a day. At ten
cents each, these 8,000,000 cigars would 
cost $800,000 a day. Throwing out Sundays
and holidays (though a cigar is occasionally
smoked on Sunday evenings), the total cost
for cigars yearly would be $240,000,000—
enough to pay the national debt in nine
years.


SOMEBODY says law is like a seive, you
can see through it, but you must be consid-
erably reduced before you can get through 
it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

NOTES BY THE WAY.

JOURNEYING TO SODA SPRINGS.

	We have seen a great deal, and yet not
much, (with the exception of Ogden Cañon,)
until yesterday, that is worth mentioning;
what appeared to me as the most striking
object in Ogden Cañon was a very large
rock; this you encounter shortly after en-
tering the cañon, and it extends on either
side of the river for some two or three
blocks in length, commencing very abrupt-
ly and terminating in a like manner. It is
the largest rock I ever saw, and it reaches
from the base of the mountain to its sum-
mit in an unbroken range. The strata is
very plain, running from the top to the
base, at an angle of about forty-seven and a
half degrees; the strata being discernible
by the earth having been washed out and
leaving in many places a space of four or
six inches between the layer. The wonder
often is why they don't fall on top of one
another in one huge mass. The scenes of
yesterday, however, afforded me more
pleasure than anything heretofore on the
trip. The last two days' travel was through
the tops of the Wasatch mountains, and
the oddest country it is, too. All you can
imagine is that Nature started out with the
intention of making it into valleys and
tablelands, but had left the work half done;
and instead of having beautiful valleys and
deep cañons and deeper streams every
once in a while, it is nothing but a succes-
sion of rolling hills, with small cañons
bursting into view on all sides. These are
very beautiful, of course, when seen from
what seemed to have been originally in-
tended for the summit of a valley, but
which become very monotonous, dreary and
tiresome when you are obliged to ride over
them in a wagon, your head all the while
being in imminent danger of a blow from
the wagon bows when passing over some of
the boulders on the road, which, the same,
are "like unto the sands on the seashore."
Yesterday, however, we passed through a
series of cañons, some very small, but all
very beautiful, in which were many beauti-
ful groves of quaking asps, pines and bal-
sams, the pines being particularly beautiful
for their height and straightness, and so
inviting that it almost seemed a sin to pass
by without enjoying their proffered and
friendly shade. On the higher summits of
some of these cañons we could see for a
distance of about fifty miles, over what
seemed a series of endless hills and hollows,
rendered doubly enchanting by the dis-
tance, and as they reached further and fur-
ther the hills gradually lost their distinct-
ness, and their outlines faded into a valley
of the greenest and loveliest verdure—the
pine trees and brush in the long reaches
having diminished to the height of grass.
Towards the close of yesterday's journey,
and at the head of Bear Lake cañon, we
beheld two or three large groves of with-
ered pines, apparently not blasted by light-
ning or destroyed by fire, there being no
black or charred appearance about them; a
color between a green and a white, with an
occasional tint caused by a peculiar shadow
or ray of sunlight, pervaded the whole, and
as all the branches remained as in life, with
the bark removed, it formed a very beauti-
ful and impressive spectacle, the trees and
branches being so thick and standing out in
such bold relief, that one almost fancied it
to be a spectre grove. Some of the hills
around here are very peculiar, many being
entirely bare, with the exception of a stripe
of green trees running down the side as
though laid there by artificial means, these

[Column 2]

being rendered more strange and lovely by
that tint on some of the leaves which al-
ways betokens Autumn. Among other
things which struck me as being rather
strange and somewhat beautiful was a scene
which Joe and I had the good fortune to
behold the day before yesterday. We had
climbed to a considerable height in search
of game, and in stopping to rest, happened
to look towards these low rolling hills,
over which at that moment were passing a
number of small clouds, a sufficient distance
apart to admit of considerable sunshine,
and we sat and watched these shadows fly,
far, far over the hills, as though chasing
the sunshine, and then the sunshine wonld
follow as though in pursuit of the clouds.
This scene would have given one a good
start towards sad meditation, and might
have offered an appropriate comparison to
life, had one but been in a mood to give
way to the feeling which involuntarily
crept upon the soul.

	IN BIG COTTONWOOD CANON.—
The night father arrived we had a very
nice time around the camp-fire singing jok-
ing and talking until nine o'clock, then we
sang "Nearer my God to Thee," then fath-
er had prayers, after that we sung "Praise
God from whom all blessings flow." Every-
thing around us seemed grand and sublime;
the great fire of pine logs, the clear blue
sky above, in which the moon shone
brightly as if to rival our fire, the tall pine
trees towering above us, the mountains sur-
rounding us, father in all his goodness
standing among us, his noble features and
gray beard commanding reverence and re-
spect—it was a picture that so impressed
me, that I shall never forget it. If I were
an artist I should try to paint it, but it
would be impossible to paint the grateful
hearts, and the noble thoughts that filled
our minds at that time.
	We all went up to Lake Mary and such a
lovely sight I never saw; in order to get to
the lake we pass through a large grove, or
forest of tall pines so straight and high
they seem almost to reach to the sky, and
we fancy they say to us poor little frail be-
ings below, "We're nearer to heaven than
you." The lovliest grass and flowers cover
the earth underneath the trees; can you im-
agine a more charming picture?
	M.
Emiline Wells


[For the EXPONENT.
THE MIDNIGHT HOUR.

	With what awe, when a child, did I look
forward to the midnight hour. I had in-
vested it with some solemn thoughts, some
uncanny doings, and often wondered what
midnight might be like. One night when
my youngest sister was sick, I asked my
father and mother to let me stay up until
midnight, just to see how midnight looked!
They consented. I patiently waited; the
expected hour at last arrived—"It is mid-
night," mother said. I went to the win-
dow, drew aside the curtain, and looked
out. I saw nothing unusual—a dark, cheer-
less night alone greeted my vision; but the
simple word midnight, and the unusual
stillness pervading the atmosphere, gave 
me a feeling of awe, and after looking out
a short time in silence, I turned away and
willingly resigned myself to the sweet in-
fluence of sleep. I had soon morning hours,
when gladly I had arisen to behold the star-
gemmed sky, in brilliancy and beauty, shed-
ding soft light around. I had beheld the
witching hour of evening, radiant in the
glory of a full moon, but never before had


I seen a midnight hour. I was satisfied.
Midnight has many times since found me
wakeful, but never agaiu for its own sake.
A sick child watched over with tenderness,
sleeplessness with all its train of thought,
and argument, and imagery, fair summer
moonlight nights irrigating the garden, all
have many times brought to me the mid-
night hour, each different from the first I
had beheld.
	Not long ago I was awakened at mid-
night; the moon was shining in her beauty,
bringing out the lights and shadows of the
trees, the birds were singing, chickens
crowing, dogs barking and people talking,
which made up a midnight hour heretofore
unknown-a Dixie midnight, in striking
contrast to the cheerless, dreary midnight
of my childhood. 
	EMILY B. SPENCER.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Dried corn and especially sweet corn is an ex-
cellent vegetable for winter when there is not
the variety of other seasons.  In many places
corn does not ripen on account of the early frosts
and if there are ears sufficiently ripe to cook, it
would be good economy to preserve them for the
winter. The process is simple and requires no
particular skill only a little care.  Remove the
husks and put the corn in boiling water and
scald it just enough to start the milk, then take
it out, and cut it from the cob, and spread it on
sheets to dry.  For small quantities it may be
dried upon plates.  Some persons prefer cooking
it thoroughly.  We know a lady who dries large
quantities for sale, and in this way some of our
sisters who live in country places might get pocket
money besides making a delicious dish for home
use.  This year there is an unusual scarcity of all
kinds of fruits, and dried corn will no doubt be in
good demand.  The lady referred to also informs
us that she saves all the water in which she boils
the corn, and with a little yeast, and a few hops
she makes a very good article of home-brewed
beer, which answers for the men when working
in the harvest field, and is much better for them
than a stronger drink.


HYGIENIC NOTES.
	Women as Nurses.—A friend writes as follows:
"It seems to me a very improper thing for a wo-
man to be a doctor, but I am quite satisfied to have
her a nurse, and I wish the 'Herald of Health'
would take this view of the case and advocate the
profession of nurse for woman; but advise against
their becoming doctors."
	To this we reply we have no objection to wo-
men being nurses, if they prefer; nor men either.
It is a kind of work which requires many of both
sexes. But there are reasons why a woman well
qualified by nature should desire to be a physician
rather than a nurse, and the reasons are as fol-
lows:
	1. It is more lucrative—medical fees are much
higher than nurses' fees.
	2. The work is easier. There is no labor
harder than to be a professional nurse, subject to
the call of the sick at all hours of the day or
night.
	3. The labor of a professional nurse, contrary
to what is generally known, exposes one to much
more indelicacy than the work of a physician.
Many think a physician must do all sorts of in-
delicate things—not so. Most of the indelicate
work, if it is indelicate, is done by the nurse at
the order of a physician. We have no words
against nurses, but desire to correct the impres-
sion that it is any more improper to be the one
than the other. It is only custom that makes
some people think so.—"Herald of Health."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
	The General Retrenchment Meeting in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, held their
semi-monthly meeting on Saturday, Aug. 18,
which was well attended, and a lively interest
manifested on all the various topics of interest
which animate and inspire the Latter-day
Saints. The President, Mrs. M. I. Horne, be-
ing absent on a visit through Bear Lake Coun-
[---] Counselor B. W. Smith presided over the
meeting. The minutes of the Senior and Ju-
nior Associations were read, and speeches were
made on the principles of the Gospel, the home
industries, the gleaning and saving of grain,
by Counselors B. W. Smith and E. Howard,
and by Mrs. W. East and several other ladies
in the congregation. Elder Zebedee Coltrin,
Jun., who had recently returned from a mission
to the States, gave a sketch of his travels and
labors, and alluded to the ridicule and ill-treat-
ment to which the elders were subjected when
out proclaiming the truths of heaven.

	ROUND VALLEY, MORGAN CO.,
		Aug. 22d, 1877.EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We still continue to hold our meetings once
in two weeks, and good feelings are manifested
among the sisters. We read the EXPONENT,
and desire to carry out the counsel and in-
structions that are given to us from time to
time. We intend to lay up all the grain we
can this fall, and with the help of our Heaven-
ly Father we will do all we can for the salva-
tion of ourselves and families, by taking care
of our grain against a time of need.
	Praying for the success of your very valuable
paper we remain,
	Your sisters in the Gospel of peace,
		MARTHA TONKS, President,
		FANNIE OLPIN, Sec'y pro tem.


SPELLING REFORM.

	At the session of the American Philolog-
ical association in Baltimore recently, pro-
fessor F. A. Marsh of Lafayette college,
Pennyslavania, chairman of the committee
on reform in English spelling, presented a
report, which says:
	The attempt to prepare an English al-
phabet according to the principles which
an ideal alphabet would seek to adopt for
its characters—forms which would suggest
the sounds signified - brings out the follow-
ing facts:
	There are eighteen Roman letters which
commonly represent in English nearly the
same elementary sounds which they repre-
sented in Latin. It seems best to follow
the Latin and other languages written in
Roman letters in the use of a single sign
for a short vowel, and its long form distin-
guishing them when great exactness is re-
quired by a diacritical mark. The alpha-
bet would then have thirty-two letters. It
seems necessary, therefore, that there
should be a transition period, and for this
the following suggestions are made:
	First- Transition characters may be used
resembling if possible two letters—for "A"
(fate), "E" (mete), "I" (fine). "U" (pure),
"S" (as), "G" (gin) and "C" (cent).
	Second - The diagraphs now representing
single consonants may be named and other-
wise treated as single letters.
	Third - New letters can be introduced by
using them only with the old which they
resemble in form.
	Fourth - Long words bear changes best,
and vowels are more easily changed than
consonants, which project more above and


below the line; dropping the silent "e" is
the easiest change.
	The committee was continued, with in-
structions to communicate, with associations
of this character in England.


﻿WOMEN AND WAR.
	Mr. Geo. W. Smalley, the London corre-
spondent of the New York "Tribune," is a 
man of uncommon ability, humanity and
independence. His conscience has alwaysmade him a courageous reformer, while his
temperament has in it much that allies him
with conservatives. His opinions on Wo-
man Suffrage are therefore entitled to much
consideration, and we quote from the Salem
(Mass.) "Observer" one of his remarks,
with the "Observer's" answer:—
	WOMEN AND WAR.—"No partisan of fe-
male voting has ever answered the objec-
tion that women's votes might bring on a
war that men would have to wage." So
writes Mr. G. W. Smalley from London in a
letter describing the late discussion of Suf-
frage in the English Parliament. Mr.
Smalley usually writes in a very clear and
well-considered manner, but in this case
expresses himself with a degree of confi-
dence by no means warranted upon exami-
nation of his premises. In the first place
there is no reason for the violent supposi-
tion that all women would ever vote to-
gether for war against the interests of all
men; and therefore it is illogical to adduce
such an argument, if argument it may be
called. There is nothing in the history of
woman's conduct in any age or country,
and nothing in the analysis of female char-
acter, to lead one to believe that such an
event as Mr. SMallet supposes could ever
occur. Indeed it is almost impossible to 
conceive of a war declared by the votes of
women under any circumstances whatever.
All that we know of the disposition and
sentiments of women lead to the conclusion
that women's influence would always be
against war, if they were called to political
responsibiiiiies. It may also be assumed as
an indisputable truth that the enfranchise-
ment of women would be a step in the di-
rection of universal and everlasting peace.
"Salem Observer."


PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on 
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR 
THREE YEARS.
Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged.  Send to 
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
WOOLEN GOODS,
SUCH AS 
TWEEDS, JEANS,
DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
LADIES JACKETS,
STOCKINGS, YARNS,
SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
LATEST STYLES OF 
FANCY WORSTED TIES,
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of Jamaica Ginger
HOME-MADE  WOOLEN BATTING,
NEW ZEALAND FLAX SEED.
DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
AGENT FOR 
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOOD'S,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

THE FINE ARTS
The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
 We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our 
prices are put at living rates.
 We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and 
are determined to excel in all we do.
 A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock . Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
Send your orders to            C. R. SAVAGE,
                                       Salt Lake City, Utah

Mrs. C. E. DYE
 Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of 
Millinery of any house in town.
 Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium.  Do not forget
                         17, East Temple street.
                     TEMPLE OF FASHION,
Ladies attending conference will do well to give her a 
call.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF 
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Vol. 6.  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. SEPTEMBER 15, 1877.  No. 8.﻿


LINES SUNG AT THE FUNERAL, OF 
PREST. BRIGHAM YOUNG.

COMPOSED FOR THE OCCASION BY CHARLES
W. PENROSE.
MUSIC BY PROF. GEORGE CARELESS.

	Death gathers up thick clouds of gloom
	And wounds the soul with anguish deep.
	Gaunt sorrow sits upon the tomb,
	And round the grave dense shadows creep.

	But faith beams down from God's fair skies
	And bids the clouds and shades begone.
	We gaze with brightened, tear-dryed eyes
	And lo there stands the Holy One!

	"The Resurrection and the Life"	What hope and joy that title brings!
	Death's but a myth with horrors rife,
	And flees before the King of Kings.

	Then shall we mourn and weep to-day
	Because out Cheif has gone to rest?
	He slumbers not in that cold clay,
	He lives and moves among the blest.

	We lose a leading Master Mind,
	But spirit hosts behind the vail
	New strength and added wisdom find,
	To make our mutual work prevail.

	Hosannas greet his entrance there,
	And JOSEPH waits with words of praise,
	While here sad thousands bow in prayer,
	And funeral notes in grief we raise.

	Farewell, dear brother Brigham Young,
	God called thee through th' eternal gate,
	They fame shall dwell on every tongue,
	And Saints thy worth will emulate.

	Thy work on earth was nobly done,
	And peace smiles sweetly on thee now;
	The crown celestial thou hast won,
	In splendor waits to deck thy brow.

[The music of the above will appear in the October
number of the "Utah Musical Times."]


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A CORRESPONDENT in a private letter
writing from Italy, says that this autumn
the members of the Italian Parliament will
discuss the question of conceding munici-
pal Suffrage to women.—Ex.

	MRS. E. Boynton Herbert, President of
the Illinois State Woman's Suffrage Asso-
ciation proposes a Woman's Congress for the
State, and appoints meetings in Chicago for
the 4th and 5th of October next. These
Suffrage Associations are doing a good work
and the combined force of such practical
efforts cannot fail but bring about in good
time the desired result of universal suffrage.
A vast amount of courage and continuity is
necessary certainly, but with such zealous
and devoted workers all obstacles must at
length be overcome.

	THE EMPLOYMENT of women in the tel-
egraph department has been a complete
success in England. Over eleven thousand
are employed in London, and there has
been but one dismissed in four years. Their
hours are from 8 A.M. to 8 P.M., each being
on duty eight consecutive hours out of
these twelve. In the establishment there
is a kitchen and dining-rooms, and the
girls have a thoroughly good dinner for
twenty cents. The pay begins at two dol-
lars a week, which is raised to three dollars
when the girl is competent. Girls may en-
ter from 14 to 18. The average pay re-
ceived is four dollars and a half a week, and
the highest is seven dollars and a half a
week.—Woman's Journal.

	VICTOR HUGO on the Woman Question
reasons in this wise, and perhaps the word of
a man of not like him may have some influ-
ence with society at large: "Courage, alas
he must have who will be just towards the
weaker. The weaker is Woman. Our ill-
balanced society seems as if it would take
from her all that Nature has endowed her
with. In our codes there is something to
recast. It is what I call the Woman Law.
Man has his law; he has made it for him-
self. Woman has only the law of man.
Woman is civilly a minor and morally a
slave. Her education is imbued with this
two-fold character of inferiority. Hence
many sufferings are hers which man must
also justly share. There must be reform,
and it will be for the benefit of civilization,
truth and light."

	DEATH OF MISS CARPENTER. — Miss
Mary Carpenter, who was well known for
the active part she has taken in the reform-
atory movement, and in the promotion of
ragged schools and of female education,
died a short time since at Redhedge, Bris-
tol. She was the daughter of the late Rev.
Dr. Lant Carpenter, of Bristol, and was
born in 1807. She had published several
works on the best methods of dealing with
youthful criminals, and on various other
philanthropic and educational subjects. She
read many papers before the Social Science
Association, and paid four visits to India
for the purpose of promoting female educa-
tion and prison reform in that country. her
last visit was made in 1875-76; and only
recently a parliamentary paper was issued
containing two letters which Miss Carpen-
ter had written to Lord Salisbury, at his
Lordship's desire giving her views upon
the questions of female education and prison
discipline in India.

	PETITIONS FOR a Sixteenth Amendment
for Woman, from 10,000 United States citi-
zens, from twenty-two States, have been
presented in open House and Senate by
thirty-one Representatives and twenty-nine
Senators since January 9th, 1877. The
friends of Woman Suffrage in both Houses
who intend to advocate this amendment in
the new Congress, desire its friends to sus-
tain them by mammoth petitions from
every quarter. It is earnestly desired that
all who have a desire to see woman in pos-
session of the right to advancement on an
equal footing with her brother man, will
sign these petitions, and thereby show to
the world that the shackles of superstition
and false education can be unriveted with-
out the  heretofore popular methods of war.
	Woman has fully demonstrated wherever
an opportunity has been given her, that
she is capable of taking her place side by
side with man, intellectually, and as the
ballot ought to be governed by intelligence
there is no reason why woman should be
deprived of its use.—Wolcottville (Ind.)
Gazette. 

	THE DEATH of Lady Sterling-Maxwell,
(better known as Hon. Mrs. Norton,) for-
merly Miss Caroline Elizabeth Sarah Sher-
idan, occurred recently; she was born in

1808, and was the daughter of the late Mr.
Thomas Sheridan, and granddaughter of 
the Right Hon. Richard Brinsley Sheridan.
At a very early age she shewed a taste for
authoriship, and produced "The Dandle's 
Rout," with illustrations from her own de-
signs. In 1821 she published "The Sor-
rows of Rosalie," and in 1831 a poem called
"The Undying One," based on the legend
of "The Wandering Jew." These were
followed by several volumes of poems and
works of fiction some of the latest of
which were "Lost and Saved," published 
in 1868. Miss Sheridan married, about
1829, the Hon. George C. Norton, a brother
to Lord Grantly and for many years a mag-
istrate at the Lambeth Police court. Mr.
Norton died in 1875; and on the 2nd of last
March, Mrs. Norton, who had for some time
been confined to her room, was married at 
her own residence to Sir William Sterling-
Maxwell, Bart. M. P.


	MRS. Virginia Barnhurst. Secretary of
the Natioal Woman Suffrage Association,
Philadelphia, has written some of the
strongest and mose able articles on the wo-
man question. In the "Ballot Box" of Sep-
tember she has an article entitled "Careless
Admissions," which strikes us as being
well-timed and to the point. We would
gladly publish it in full but can now only
qote part of it: "Women have reay noth-
ing to a of men in thi matter. no more 
than one man has to ask of another, exept-
ing to request that they will not interfere
with the exercise of their rights, and when 
they appeal to the government, as they now 
are doing, it is not for RIGHTS, but for pro-
tection in the exercise of rights." Mrs. B.
says, "I once heard one of our prominent
woman speakers from the platform, in a 
sweet, pathetic and quite imploring voice
appeal to the men in the audience with "It 
is so easy to give us the right; you can if
you will." All of this, however concilatory,
tame, and traditionally womanly, goes to 
make an admisses that is neither intended,
nor one that can be made false as it is with-
out drawing upon us ever ready to criticism.
It means nothing more nor less than that 
woman has not the right to vote-that man 
has, and, too, that he has the authoirty to 
give her the right, whenever his lordship
may, in his own good time, see proper to
be so agreeable and condescending.
	In the first place women are not asking
for rights. Rights are something that can
neither be given not taken away, and if it 
were otherwise she would not be likely to 
go to man for them, as according to Ameri-
can autonomy rights are equal in citizen-
ship, and thus one citizen has no more power
than another, and has nothing to give to
that other which that other, like him or
her, does not possess. If by some HOCUS-
POCUs it has come that man is in EXERCISE
of the franchise and woman is not, this 
does not weaken or destroy woman's right
to it, neither does it give him the least au-
thority over her right."


MRS. J. Southworth Spaulding will lec-
ture this winter on "How shall we Help
Ourselves" and "Popular Fallacies."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
DEWEYVILLE, BOX ELDER CO.,
Aug. 27th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 We held our Second Annual Meeting
Aug. 6th, 1877.  It being election day the
school house was occupied, and our Presi-
dent being sick at the time, meeting was
held at her residence.  President Harriet
A. Snow and Mrs. Fannie Loveland of
Brigham City were present and gave good
instructions to old and young; exhorted the
sisters to live their religion and have char-
ity one for another.  President J. C. Dewey
occupied a portion of the time, and spoke
encouraging words to us; said the Relief
Society was a great help to him.  Mrs. Dur-
fee gave a brief history of her experience
in the church, which was very interesting,
as she had been a member for forty years.
 The treasurer read a report of one year's
proceedings in the Society, which was
unanimously accpeted. We have means in
the Society to the amount of thirty dollars.
Here I will mention about saving Sunday
eggs: after our first annual meeting our
president proposed for each sister to save
Sunday eggs, for the benefit of the Society
which met with opposition (as all good
principles do), but ten sisters united with
her and saved their Sunday eggs, which
amounted to thirty-six dollars in one year.
Allow me to state here that I think this is
the most appropriate plan of getting means
in a Society that I know of.  We meet once
in two weeks and a good spirit prevails
throughout our little settlement, and we
begin to realize the benefit of a Relief So-
ciety.  We had a Party in the evening
for the benefit of the Society; pleasant feel-
ings and united hearts made our party a
success. Your worthy paper is a great help
to us.
	Your sister in the true Gospel,
ELIZA HOWARD, Secretary.
LEVAN, JUAB CO., Aug. 24th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 Knowing the interest you take in Relief
Societies, I thought a few items from our
quiet little settlement might not be unin-
teresting.  We held a meeting on Monday
last, when we were favored with the pres-
ence of President George Teasdale, Bishop
Aagaard, Elders Christiansen, Mitcock and
Hendricksen. Mrs. Nancy Hartley, who
has long been our president, and Mrs. Su-
san Mitcock, one of her counselors, resigned,
and although their reasons were perfectly
justifiable; their resignation was accepted
with regret.  The following officers were
unanimously sustained:
	Mrs. Sorina Aargaard, President.
	"	Catherine Dye,
	"	Hedevig Christianson,	Counselors,
	"	Eliza Curtis, Treasurer,
	"	Hannah Hendrickson, Secretary.
	A vote of thanks was given to Mrs. N.
Hartley and Mrs. S. Mitcock for their past
labors and counsel.
	President Teasdale gave us much encour-
agement and kind instructions.  We en-
joyed a very profitable meeting.
Respectfully,
HANNAH HENDRICKSON,
Secretary.
RICHVILLE, MORGAN CO.,
Aug. 23, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 On the 25th of April last our Society was
called together by Bishop W. G. Smith, and
we were re-organized.  Mrs. Fannie Taggart
was chosen by the voice of the Society to
act as President; she then chose Susannah
S. Seamen and Ann Walden as her Counsel-
ors; the other officers were voted in. Our
Society is small, twenty members in all.
Since 1871 we have donated for public be-
nevolent purposes seventeen dollars and
sixty cents.  We help the poor as we have
opportunity.  We have now in the Treasury
three good quilts and a good parlor stove.
I thought a brief account of our Society
might not be uninteresting to you. The
sisters all feel anxious to do all in their
power to assist in rolling on this great work.
With much love for the cause, I subscribe
myself,
		Your fellow laborer in Zion,
FANNIE TAGGART.
SALEM, UTAH CO., Aug. 23, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
The Young Ladies' Retrenchment Asso-
ciation of this place held their Second An-
nual Meeting July 27th, 1877.  Meeting
opened in the usual manner; after which
Bishop Robert H. Davis addressed the con-
gregation; he urged the sisters to be faith-
ful to their meetings, said it would prove a
great blessing to them in after years; he
also urged them to be true to the cove-
nants which they had made with them-
selves and with God.  Brother Clous O.
Bahr bore his testimony to the truth of the
Gospel. Excellent remarks were made by
Mrs. Alice Gardner, Mrs. Mary Reed, Mrs.
Lucinda Jackman and President Mrs. Mar-
tha Curtis.  There were a variety of pieces
recited and songs sung by members of the
Association. After meeting we me[-] at
Bishop Davis's and partook of a picnic,
which all seemed to enjoy.  Our Society is
small, but we try to do as well as we can.
There is considerable sickness in this place
at present, more than has been known for
some years past; there have been several
deaths among the children, but we know
they died innocent, and will be permitted
to come forth in the morning of the First
Resurrection, and if we are faithful we
shall be permitted to meet them again.
Praying for the success of the EXPONENT
and those interested in it, we subscribe
ourselves,
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
				A. S. HANKS, Secretary,
I. CURTIS, Ass't Sec'y.


[Column 1]
		BYRON MEMORIALS.

	There has been a private view of the
models sent in for the statue of Lord Byron
to be erected in the Green Park, and of
other Byroniana, which have been brought
together at the Albert Hall, Knightsbridge.
The various articles exhibited—including
39 designs for a memorial statue—were
nearly 100 in all, through grouped in the
catalogue in 71 lots. Of the statues there
is really little or nothing to be said, except
that while all came up to a certain level,
none rise in our estimation, at least, to the
highest order of merit; the best being No.
1, which represents the poet in an attitude
of contemplation, and No. 6, which also
gives us Lord Byron seated, as he loved to
sit, upon the rocks watching the play of
the sunlight on the waves. This statue,
which is by Mr. Richard Belt, is under-
stood to have been selected for acceptance
by the committee. The rest of the models
for the most part represent the poet either

[Column 2]
in a flowing cloak like a Roman toga, or in
the boating dress so familiar to us by the
engraver's art. Few of them are remark-
able for originality or for ideal beauty,
though they give us every variety of pos-
ture—meditative, contemplative, active,
and defiant, and (in one case) in an "action
of inspiration." Far more interesting were
the "Byroniana" exhibited in the west
room, about 40 in all. There were busts,
portraits, miniatures, and medallions of
Lord Byron at various periods of life—as a
child, at school, at college, and as a full-
grown man, including the well-known por-
trait of him by Philips, from Newstead
Abbey, and another by the same artist from
Stoneleigh; a water color drawing of his
lordship in his robes as a nobleman at Cam-
bridge, by Gilchrist; and another anony-
mous portrait of him in early life, the his-
tory and painter of which are both un-
known. There were autograph letters from
the poet to his friends, Mr. Hodgson, Dr.
Bowring, and Sir John Hobhouse; the
original draught of the fourth canto of
"Childe Harold;" first editions and pre-
sentation copies of several of his poems, in
many cases inscribed in his own hand;
Stothard's medal of Lord Byron; the cav-
alry sword presented by Byron to his friend
Trelawny during their voyage to Greece,
with the words, "There, take it and use it,
either like Don Juan or like Childe Har-
old." In another case were the silver
watch which Byron wore as a boy at Har-
row; the china teacups and saucers that
stood on his mantle shelf at Cambridge; the
gold locket and gold pin which he usually
wore; the crucifix found in his room after
his death at Missolonghi; his snuffbox; his
seal, with crest and arms; the helmet and
the "boarding cap" which he wore daily
in Greece; a silver teapot purchased at the
sale of his effects; and the boxing gloves
used by him in his "sparring" encounters
with Jackson, the pugilist. In another
case were other swords, daggers, and pipes,
all connected in some way with Lord Byron
as their owner or donor; an autograph of
the poet's earliest love, Mary Ann Cha-
worth; the collar of Boatswain, Lord By-
ron's favorite dog and "only friend," who
lies buried at Newstead; and last but not
least in point of interest, his pocket New
Testament, of which the catalogue tells us
that it was presented by his wife to Lord
Byron, who afterwards gave it to Lady
Caroline Lamb. It would seem to have
subsequently belonged to another celebrity,
for on its title page is written "Sidney Mor-
gan, 1851." We ought also to mention the
large oil painting of Newstead Abbey, exe-
cuted by G. Varley in 1809 at the request
of Lord Byron. But perhaps the most in-
teresting of all the memorials is that num-
bered 54 in the catalogue, a document
drawn up by Lord Byron in his own hand-
writing in August, 1817, relating to his
separation from Lady Byron, in which he
throws the blame of that transaction on the
lady's advisors, and offers to submit the
matters in dispute to some third party for
adjudication. The Exhibition is now open
to the public at the Albert Hall.


LOVE never tires; the more we love the
more we have of solid satisfaction. Every
new soul we come in contact with and learn
to esteem fills us with new light and life. 
Those who love others are themselves full
of sunshine, and the day marches triumph-
antly on with them from rosy morn to
dewy eve and silent night.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
			A TRIBUTE.

Thou unforgotten one! My noble Sire!
Upon the altar of my loving heart
Burns ever bright the holy [--]ial fire!
Nought can extinguish while my mem'ry lives.
Thou good and noble! I did love thee well;
And honor'd thee, as subject did a king;
Thou wert the idol of my childish days,
And in my infant heart you reign'd supreme;
The "bright particular star" whose vivid ray
Shed warmth and sunlight on my daily path!
When thou wert absent how I counted o'er
The days that must elapse ere thy return—
All nature seem'd to me to sit, and wait,
And watch, and wait for thee; no life appear'd
To my young spirit in the things of life
When thou wert absent from the dear old Home!
The sun, though shining, seem'd not half so bright
As when beheld beneath thy voice of love!—
Thy voice so musical and its tones so sweet;
Thy form so noble, beautiful and good;
Beside a king, thou wouldst his compeer been,
Beside an honest man, his counterpart!
Thy footstep!—years have flown, and yet I shut
Mine eyes and listen, and I hear it still!
And all the language that it ever spoke.
Thine eye!—when that shone out approval
Twas my "exceeding great reward," and when
It looked severe upon me, the great deep
Of my heart's fountain, then, was broken up;
And as I grew this strengthen'd with my strength,
And if I wrote, it was that he might read,
And his approval all my guerdon was,
And all th' applause my heart or brain did crave;
He in my heart was oracle and judge.

Since those sweet days, a mighty change has come—
He sank, and died, to lose the ones he lov'd—
For they to him were stars of destiny;
But all is right with him; he was on earth
All that a righteous man has scope to be,
In this probation, where the bounds are set;
He walked according to the light he had,
And God, of men or angels, asks no more;
He has a future! a great, grand future,
And the inspiration of this [--]ial lay
Is, that I might twine his honor'd name
Among the Saints of latter days, knowing
His place is with them, and a day shall come
When he shall rise and stand among their ranks.
And she, who was the partner of his life,
Worthy, and most beloved by him, his hand
Shall hold, and lead forever—his endow'd,
His chaste, and most obedient wife. In
Vision I behold them! good and noble pair;
Redeemed, baptized, endowed, accepted Saints;
United stand among the serried ranks
Of Saints of Latter days—Christ's Church on earth:
And I their cherished child with them once more.
								HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. City, Aug. 19th, 1877.


[Column 1]

NOTES BY THE WAY.

JOURNEYING TO SODA SPRINGS.

	I hoped to be able to send you a descrip-
tion of the deer hunt I've been dreaming
about since I left home; but as Rob is the
only one who has seen a deer, my descrip-
tion will be of another character. All the
boys have left me to watch the camp, while
they pay a visit to the cave, and as I have
had that pleasure, I will endeavor to tell
you what they may expect to see. In the
distance the road encircling the mound
which marks the situation of the cave,
seems to be formed of a crayon white dust;
but soon the hard rattle of the wheels, and
a closer inspection show it to be composed
of a substance equal in color and brittleness
to "adamantine marble" on which the visi-
tor rides with an ease that is only excelled
by the R. R. carriage, in its turn equaled
by the pleasing shade and luscious fragrance
which come from the trees bordering the
road-side. Ease and agreeableness are not
its only exterior possessions. From the
simplicity of the springs to the mysteries
of petrifaction the curiosity is excited.
You can imagine the wagon going round
the sloping side of the semicircle, and the

[Column 2]

boys, lost in observation, unconscious of
having lost the shade. Here the mound is
covered with a thin layer of water, so clear
as to be distinguishable only by the splash-
ing of the horses' feet. On the upper side
of the road an occasional flower has formed
a barrier to the little sediments which it
has increased in size until a uniform ridge,
an inch in height, the entire length of the
semicircle is formed. Over this there is a
curious compound of water which has
caused the petrifaction of flower and sedi-
ment, and flows in a small ripple; then pass-
es over the road with a clearness and even-
ness that characterizes the surface of a
looking glass. A few yards farther up is
another ridge, increasing in size propor-
tionally with the incline of the mound;-
farther up is another, and still another, each
increasing in size as it advances until at
once the curious eye feasts on the delicate
ripple and the massive waterfall. The top
ridge forms the summit of the mound and
roof of the cave. Here, although the eye
of the observer is presented to an entirely
different view, his curiosity is none the less
excited. Each ridge seems to form a for-
tification that would resist the power of
Caesar and frustrate the designs of Archi-
medes; and all taken together to afford a
safe retreat to Captain Jack against the
Uuited States' entire army. And all seems
once to have been a green and luxuriant
forest, changed by petrifaction in a massive
rocky mound. Perhaps I am wrong, for I
have not heard the statements of philoso-
phy on these curiosities, I can give none
other opinion but my own. From between
the ridges, for your inspection, I have been
pleased to gather specimens of pieces of
petrified branches, leaves and stems, and
which are so perfect in preservation, and
likeness to nature, that you will not think
my opinion so great an absurdity, that the
boys are now on top of a petrified forest.
Please have the patience to follow the boys
into the cave. "Snakes in your boots," is
the feeling which possesses one as he
crawls down the dark and gloomy hole, and
dreadful it feels as he reaches the bottom,
about 20 ft., but when the candles are lit,
the gloom and darkness disappear and in-
stead of a feeling of dread, one of sublim-
ity and awe possess a person as he looks
upon curiosities not surpassed in the stat-
uary department of the Zoological Gardens.
Of course I exaggerate in my comparisons,
"kuz" its natural; but really the interior of
the cave is grand. It is rectangular in form,
with no sharp pointed rocks, nor serpentine
cracks to fill the observer with fear, but all
is as regular as though it had been con-
trived by the hand of art. Inside the for-
mation corresponds with the out. On the
ends of small hanging branches at the top
of the cave, drops of water seem to have
accumulated and all petrified, from an oval
shaped range of rock along the entire
length of the roof; directly below the first,
is another layer which is larger. Between
the layers, on the points of what appears to
be minute branches pointing out in every
direction, little round drops have been
formed. In the crevices between which
can be seen an original whiteness, contrast-
ing with the smoky walls. These ranges
extending from one end of the cave to the
other and spangled between as it were with
"dew drops" vary in size from a few grains
to stones weighing tons. An occasional
crack in the ceiling lets in lights which
coming in contact with the dimly illumi-
nated darkness produces a light of calcium
which tints the pure white rock, with a
pink so delicate, as to add beauty two-fold
to the scene. It was in the glare of one of

[Column 3]

these lights that I was reminded forcibly of
Chief Vanderdecau, with his spectre ship-
mates drinking healths. We were all
standing under one of those calcium glares,
one of us pouring a libation (of Soda) an-
other with satisfaction drinking, another
anxiously holding his cup, and the rest of
us expectantly awaiting turn.  The scene
was so dismal, the attitude so natural, the
situation so appropriate, all so ghostlike,
the entire tableau so perfect that it could
not be surpassed by Mr. Ottinger on the
Salt Lake Stage.
	Yours Truly,
		JOE.


ESSAY ON SELF-GOVERNMENT.

	I think we as saints ought to try to gov-
ern and control ourselves and all our evil
propensities, because if we cannot control
ourselves we cannot control those who are
placed in our care; I have myself tried to
do so, and I have gained considerable, and
intend to continue and watch myself in
everything. We ought also to be united in
all things. Jesus has said "If ye are not
one ye are not mine." Although we may
consider ourselves true Latter-day Saints, if
we are not united in doing that which we
are taught by those holding the Priesthood,
we cannot claim to be one. We profess to
be one in faith, one in baptism, then in
what are we not one? In wordly matters.
Have we anything that the Lord has not
given unto us? From what other source did
we receive the blessings that we daily en-
joy? We should be truly thankful to Him
for them. If we were united as we ought
to be, we would have more power to do
good, for where there is union there is
strength. He can at any moment take from
us all we possess, still he allows us to live
on, in obedience or disobedience, which ever
path we choose. Will He always be merci-
ful? He has said that the wicked should
be swept from the earth, if they do not re-
pent and serve Him. He has said also that
the kingdom shall not be given to another
people, but a few will stand firm and true
to the covenants they have made with God
and each other, and will assist in the re-
demption of Zion; but we will only do it
by being willing to make every sacrifice
that is necessary for the accomplishment of
that end. We may have to do many things
that are not pleasant, we must not say we
cannot; we must say that we will serve
God come what may, and earn the reward
in store for the faithful; true saints must
embrace every principle pertaining to sal-
vation advanced by the servants of God,
and try to live in accordance with the
same. There is nothing too hard for us to
do in order that we may obtain our exalta-
tion; God requires nothing of His children
that they are not able to perform, but we
must be determined, and pray for strength
and it will be given us. Let us be obedient
to those who are placed over us, and the
Lord will bless us; and especially let us
carry out the wishes of the President of
our Society, and do all we can to encourage
her, and sustain her by our faith and
prayers.
	Sisters, let us then be united, for in unity
is strength; let us sustain each other and
devote our time to the building up of the
kingdom of God, so that we may have His
Spirit at all times is my earnest prayer.
						MRS. KELSON.


THE road to ruin is always kept in good
order, and those who travel it pay the ex-
penses.


60		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
rates. Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
Eaststreets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEPT. 15, 1877.


[Column 1]

FUNERAL SERVICES OF PRESIDENT
BRIGHAM YOUNG.

	The funeral services of the late lamented
President Brigham Young were held on Sun-
day Sept. 2d, in the New Tabernacle in this
city. The remains of the deceased were re-
moved to the Tabernacle on Saturday Sept. 1,
where they lay in state in order that the peo-
ple might have the privilege of taking a last
farewell of their beloved leader, prophet and
friend.
	It has been estimated that during the time
the body lay in state in the Tabernacle 25,000
persons availed themselves of the privilege of
looking for the last time upon their dearly be-
loved brother and president. During the night
the Tabernacle was lit with lamps and torches,
and the effect of the drapings of this large and
lofty building, the vases of flowers, the mag-
nificient organ draped also with black, was
sublimely grand and impressive by artificial
light. The Sabbath morning which ushered
in the day of the burial was serenely beauti-
ful, calm and peaceful, and a holy feeling of
resignation crept over the soul and soothed the
sorrow of all who yielded to the sacred influ-
ence. The coffin was removed from the me-
talic covering in which it had been placed to
preserve the body from the air, also the drap-
ery on the lid which was fastened down on
the coffin, was placed a large and elegant
wreath and cross, and at the foot a harp as an
emblem of the Harp of Zion, all composed of
the rarest and choicest delicate white flowers,
most artistically arranged, with a few rich
green leaves and ferns. It is estimated that 
18,000 persons were seated in the Tabernacle.
During the morning the music from the organ
and orchestra added greatly to the solemnity
of the occasion; the musicians rendered in the
most perfectly appropriate manner "The Dead
March of Saul," "Brigham Young's Funeral
March" composed expressly for the occasion
by Jos. J. Daynes for the organ. Wilson's Fu-
neral March," organ "Mendelssohn's Funeral
March," organ and orchestra. The President's
seat was occupied by his counselors. Ten of
the Apostles were present in their accustomed
seats, the patriarch of the church, First presi-
dents of Seventies, the Presidency of the 
stake, the Presiding Bishop and his counselors,
were all in their respective seats according to
their order. The Bishops of the different
wards with their counselors were seated on the
platform north of the stand, the family and
friends of the deceased in front of the stand;
the south center seats east of the family were
filled by the Seventies; the north centre, cor-
responding, by the High Priests. The rest of
the building was entirely filled even the aisles
and doorways.
	Precisely at 12, m. the congregation was

[Column 2]

called to order and the ceremonies were con-
ducted by Elder George Q. Cannon by request
of the family. The choir of over two hundred
voices sung "Hark from afar a funeral knell."
Elder F. D. Richards made the opening pray-
er (which we have published in full on anoth-
er page.)
	The choir then sang "Thou dost not weep to
weep alone."
	President D. H. Wells was the first speaker
on the occasion, followed by Elder Wilford
Woodruff and Elder Erastus Snow, each of
them seemingly full of the Holy Spirit, which 
ever brings consolation in the midst of the 
deepest sorrow. Elder George Q. Cannon then
read the following:
	Nearly four years ago President Young, in
company with a number of other Elders, wrote
his instructions which he and they desired to
have left on record concerning their funerals.
It was his written request that his instructions
upon this subject be read at his funeral. They
are as follows;
	"I, Brigham Young, wish my funeral services
to be conducted in the following manner:
	When I breathe my last I wish my friends
to put my body in as clean and wholesome
state as can conveniently be done and preserve
the same for one, two, three or four days or as
long as my body can be preserved in a good
condition. I want my coffin made of plump
one and one fourth inch redwood boards, not
scrimped in length, but two inches longer than
I would measure, and from two to three inches
wider than is commonly made for a person my
breadth and size and deep enough to place me
on a little comfortable cotton bed with a good,
suitable pillow for size and quality; my body
dressed in my Temple clothing and laid nicely
into my coffin, and the coffin to have the ap-
pearance that if I wanted to turn a little to 
the right or to the left I should have plenty of
room to do so; the lid can be made crowning.
	At my interment I wish all my family pres-
ent that can be conveniently, and the male
members wear no crape on their hats or their
coats: the females to buy no black bonnets,
nor black dresses, nor black veils; but if they
have them they are at liberty to wear them.
The services may be permitted as singing and
a prayer offered, and if any of my friends wish
to say a few words, and really desire, do so;
and when they have closed their services, take
my remains on a bier and repair to the little
burying ground which I have reserved on my
lot east of the White House on the hill, and
in the southeast corner of this lot have a vault
built of mason-work large enough to receive
my coffin, and that may be placed in a box if
they choose, made of the same material as the
coffin—redwood. Then place flat rocks over
the vault, sufficiently large to cover it, and the
earth may be placed over it—nice, fine, dry
earth—to cover it until the walls of the little
cemetery are reared which will leave me in the
southeast corner. This vault ought to be
roofed over with some kind of temporary roof.
There let my earthly house or tabernacle rest
in peace and have a good sleep until the morn-
ing of the first resurrection; no crying, nor
mourning with any one that I have done my
work faithfully and in good faith.
	I wish this to be read at the funeral, provid-
ing that if I should die anywhere in the
Mountains, I desire the above directions re-
specting my place of burial to be observed;
but if I should live to go back with the Church
to Jackson County, I wish to be buried there.
	BRIGHAM YOUNG,
President of the Church of Jesus Christ
	of Latter-day Saints
SUNDAY, November 9th, 1873,
	Salt Lake City, Utah Ter.

[Column 3]

Afterwards making some exquisitely touching
remarks. He was followed by Elder John Tay-
lor, who spoke with great power and spiritual
eloquence. A funeral hymn composed expressly
for the occasion was then sung. (This hymn we
publish on our first page.)
	Elder Cannon gave instructions in regard to
the procession, and Elder Orson Hyde pro-
nounced the benediction (which will be found
in full on another page).
	While the congregation was passing our of
the Tabernacle, the organ, orchestra and choir
performed "The Dead March," with the words
"Unveil thy bosom faithful tomb." The pro-
cession, consisting of thousands, formed in per-
fect order, according to programme proceeded to
the cemetery, where the Union Glee Club sang
"O my Father, Thou that Dwellest," and Elder
Wilford Woodruff offered the Dedicatory
Prayer: This most solemn, grand and impres-
sive funeral, so perfect in all its arrangements
and details, carried to the bosom of every Lat-
ter-day Saint a sweet feeling of holy calm and
quiet, sacred sympathy that words are wholly
inadequate to express. Order, peace and har-
mony pervaded the vast multitude, and one
could very easily believe angels and holy beings
were witnesses on that grand and sublime oc-
casion.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE SHALL publish in our next issue, Oct. 1st,
the Epistle of the Twelve Apostles and Coun-
selors to the Courch of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints. This document is of special
importance, and one which all the Saints will
wish to preserve for future perusal. 

	WE LEARN through the "Deseret News" that
J. W. Carpenter proposes publishing a semi-
monthly paper at St. George, to be called the
"St. George Union," with the motto United
we stand, divided we fall; price $1.00 per year.
Success to all enterprises for the promotion and
advancement of the best interests of the Saints.

	WE ACKNOWLEDGE the pleasure of one or
two calls from Mrs. John Wyckliffe Ricks, a
literary lady of whom we had previously heard
concerning her ability as a writer and speaker.
Mrs. Ricks also introduced her husband. This
lady is the author of some books both in prose
and poetry. One, a poem entitled "Welded
Links," we have heard highly spoken of by
those who have read it. Mrs. Ricks expressed
herself as favorably impressed with Salt Lake
City and its people. She is an animated and
eloquent conversationist.

	WE HAVE received from T. McIntyre of the
Pioneer Art Gallery a cabinet sized picture of
President Brigham Young in a handsome oval
frame, for which we return many thanks. The
picture is very natural, representing the Presi-
dent seated in his usual graceful and easy man-
ner. We also return our thanks to Daynes &
Clark for two copies handed us of "Brigham
Young's Funeral March," composed by Joseph
J. Daynes, with Prest. Young's picture on the
first page and inseribed "In Memory of His Ex-
cellency Brigham Young, Ex-Governor of Utah
Territory, and late President of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, who died
Aug. 29, 1877."

	WE ARE truly pleased to have among our
exchanges "The Ballot Box," published in
Toledo, Ohio, in the advocacy of equal rights,
irrespective of sex, by the "Toledo Suffrage
Association." The "Ballot Box" is most ably
edited by Sarah R. L. Williams, and contains
letters from the different States and Territories,
representing the advancement of the work in


the vicinity, and articles on all subjects bear-
ing upon Woman's Cause, her elevation and
her progression towards equal rights. This
paper bears strong testimony how women are
toiling with the voice and with the pen in the
great vineyard of work, unselfishly and un-
flinchingly for a higher standard to which to
lift man and womankind.
	MRS. F. C. GRISWOLD of Minneapolis, Minn.,
called on us to make some inquiries concerning
our religious faith and practises. Mrs. Griswold
had heard Ann Eliza lecture, and not being fa-
vorably impressed, determined to ascertain the
truth for herself regarding some of Ann Eliza's
statements. Mrs. Griswold is a lady of superior
cultivation and attainments, a writer, also
something of an artist and musician. She was
enthusiastic in her appreciation of the scenery
in and about Salt Lake City, and remarked that
these mountains reminded her continually of
the Bible phrase "The everlasting hills." Mrs.
Griswold is an earnest worker in the cause of
Woman's Suffrage. She is deeply interested in
the redemption of fallen women, believing they
are much sinned against, as well as deeply
wronged by the customs and usages of society
and man-made laws. She is one of the efficient
supporters of the "Bethany House" in Minne-
apolis; the Societies are called "Erring Wo-
man's Societies." Great credit is certainly due
to these large-hearted women who are making
such noble exertions in face of frowns and op-
position to bring about an order of things that
will give woman the same chance to retrace a
downward course as her brother man.
	SILK.—The Deseret Silk. Association met at
Fireman's Hall, Friday, Sept. 7th, Mrs. Zina
D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young stated that the Society was in
a prosperous condition, having twenty-six
pounds, three ounces of reeled silk ready to
be worked up as soon as we could get the ma-
chinery, which she thought would not be long.
We could thus keep labor and capital in our
own community, and be the means of finding
employment for the rising generation, and for
many that are coming to the valleys every
year. She spoke of the interest taken by
our late beloved President in this enter-
prise. The examples he had set and the
counsels he had given ought to stimulate the
Saints to more diligence to make this one of
the best branches of home industry. We had
the requisite climate and what we needed now
was the people to plant out trees and raise the
cocoons, and ere long we would be able to sup-
ply the home demand with sewing silk of all
kinds.
	Mr <i opu(r,prp?ppctq;.for="" gettingvmachinery="" so.wpood-="" ;i="" i="" d="" l-z.rur:="" '.'="" ’="" :="" okffomrs-ianrjettd="" cutamingk="" said="" shehad="" good!="" huuccebs,="" this="" .yehf;="" had="" raised="" some="" very="" fine="" l-fitcocdons="" anjlflve="" gnd'a="" halfouncesofeggs.="" ;="" -u'i="" ,mrs,'iltlfcyhl':young="" 'of="" st.="" georgej="" she="" ldreltflf’de'ep="">Paul A. Schettler said he felt greatly in-
terested in the raising and manufacture of silk.
He thought we ought to be a little more ener-
getic. Our prospects for getting machinery
were good.
	Mrs. Annette Cummings said she had good
success this year; had raised some very fine
cocoons and five and a half ounces of eggs.
	Mrs. Lucy B. Young of St. George, said she
felt a deep interest in this branch of industry.
There had been silk raised, reeled, and manu-
factured into various articles of wearing ap-
parel in that section of the country.  She in-
tended using all her influence towards this en-
terprize.
	Mrs. Schinetter said she had raised thirty
pounds of cocoons and eight ounces of eggs,
and felt greatly encouraged with her success.
The meeting was addressed by Mrs. Margaret
P. Young, Miss Mary A. Rockwood, Mrs. As-
per and others. Meeting adjourned until the
first Friday in October, at 3 p. m.
				R. SIMPSON, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		61


[Column 1]
REMARKS MADE AT THE FUNERAL
		OF PRESIDENT BRIGHAM
				YOUNG.

	REPORTED PHONOGRAPHICALLY BY
			ELDER GEORGE F. GIBBS.

			PRESIDENT D. H. WELLS.

	I arise with an aching heart, but cannot let
this opportunity pass of paying at least a tribute
of respect to our departed friend and brother,
who has just stepped behind the veil. I can only
say let the silent tear fall that it may give re-
lief to the troubled heart; for we have lost our
counselor, our friend, our president; a friend to
God, a friend to His saints, a friend to the
Church. and a friend to humanity.
	I have no desire or wish to multiply words,
feeling that it is rather a time to mourn
Good-by, Brother Brigham until the morning
of the resurrection day, when thy spirit and
body shall be reunited, and thou shalt inherit
immortality, eternal life and everlasting glory,
and thy life long companions who will soon
follow after will meet thee in peace and joy.
	May God bless the Latter-day Saints, and
may the consolations of the holy Gospel, the
hope of the glorious resurrection and redemp-
tion wrought out by our Lord and Savious Je-
sus Christ pervade every heart to the consol-
ing thereof, is my prayer, in the name of Je-
sus. Amen.

		ELDER WILFORD WOODRUFF.

	We have lying before us the earthly taber-
nacle of President Brigham Young. His voice
is hushed in death, and all Israel has to bow
and submit to the mind and will of God. Is-
rael will never again hear his voice until af-
ter the resurrection. I have no desire to occu-
py the time of this assembly in eulogizing the
life of President Young. His works and words
are recorded in heaven, and they are recorded
here on the earth; and that is sufficient. Let
those of us who remain a few days study the
counsels, the sermons and principles which
have been revealed unto us through the mouth
of this the prophet of God. It will be but a
few days until a great many of us who are in
this assembly will follow him.
	It seems as though Joseph was anxious to
have him on the other side of the veil, with
almost all the men that labored with him and
stood shoulder to shoulder with him in the
flesh. I do not suppose there was ever a man
breathed the breath of life, who in the short
space of forty-five years has done so much to-
wards the establishment of the government
and kingdom of God, as our beloved President.
His life has been before many of you for sev-
eral years, and to some from the commence-
ment of his labors in this church. He felt the
weight of this dispensation resting upon him;
he certainly has been true and faithful unto
death, and he is prepared to riceive a crown of
life.
	About all I wish to do in my remarks is to
exhort this great body of people who hold the
holy priesthood that the few remaining days
of our earthly life we continue, faithfully, the
work that is now left to us to do. "The Lord
has given and the Lord has taken away, and
bleesed is the name of the Lord." The great
desire of President Young in the last year of
his life, as well as previously, was that before
he passed away he might erect Temples to the
name of the Lord, in that way and manner
that men holding the holy priesthood in the
flesh could enter into those temples and per-
form their missions, for the redemption of the
dead. This has been plainly manifested to all
who have been much in his company. I re-

[Column 2]
joice that he lived long enough to enter into
one Temple, and to attend to its dedication,
and to commence the work of others. And I
would say to this people, let us go to and finish
these Temples, that we may continue the work
required of us. I trust we will realize the im-
portance of the great and serious responsibili-
ties resting upon us who are engaged in the
work which comprehends all others; it being
the great and last dispensation of the fulness
of times; that we, like our leader may be dili-
gent, day and night, in striving to carry out
the counsels given us.
	I feel to thank God in my spirit that our be-
loved President has had the privilege, when
his work was finished, of laying down his
body in peace, at home, surrounded by his fam-
ily and friends; instead of suffering martyrdom
as did our former President, and as did nearly
all of the ancient Apostles. This, to me is
certainly very consoling. And I would repeat,
let us accomplish the work laid upon us by our
beloved leader, so that when our time is end-
ed, we can go hence and be welcomed into the
society of Brigham, Joseph, George A., Broth-
er Kimball and the host of Elders who have
dwelt in the flesh and proven faithful and true,
feeling satisfied with our labors.
	It is said that "blessings brighten as they
take their flight." I have often felt in listen-
ing to the glorious principles of President
Young that the people here heard him so
much that they hardly prized the beauty and
the extent of the results and virtues of his
teachings. Brethren let us give these things
our serious attention and remember them, and
carry them out in our lives. Let us keep the
commandments, striving in all earnestness to
be true and faithful to the end of our work, so
that we may share the joys of those men
whose names brighten the pages of our his-
tory.
	I would say to the bereaved family, may
God comfort and bless you and give you in-
creasedly of His Spirit. Your husband and
father has gone to prepare the way for his
family who must sooner or later follow after
him. If you, as his wives, his sons and daugh-
ters keep his sayings, you will be prepared to
meet him in the morning of the resurrection,
numbered among the faithful and worthy
ones. And to my brethren and sisters who
have heard his voice for these many years:
let us not forget the precious words of truth
and wisdom he has taught us. We are living
in a time of important changes. If ever a
man could have been saved from dying through
prayer, President Brigham Young could. But
it was not in the power of man to keep him
here. I believe Bro. Geo. A Smith was kept
from dying through the prayers of his breth-
ren and the saints, several months after he was
called away. But when the Lord calls we
must go. When we received word in St.
George of the sickness of President Young, we
stopped all business, and went into the Tem-
ple remaining mostly for two days and nights
engaged in supplicating Almighty God for his
recovery, until the time of his death. Having
finished his work he had to go; and he is now
beyond the power of pain and sorrow, sickness
and death. He has been true and faithful to
the end, and therefore all is, well with him.
	That God may bless us all, and help us to re-
alize the responsibility we are under to him,
to our fellow men and to each other, to the
living and to the dead, is my prayer in the
name of Jesus. Amen.


MRS. E. A. C. Blodgett will lecture the 
coming season on "Among the Breakers."


62		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OPENING PRAYERS BY ELDER F. D
	RICHARDS, AT THE FUNERAL OF
		PREST. BRIGHAM YOUNG.

	Our Father who art in heaven, in the
name of our Lord Jesus Christ we implore
a measure of thy Holy Spirit to rest down
upon this vast congregation, that we may
worship before thee in the spirit of meek-
ness, and the beauty of holiness, and in
that right and proper frame of mind which
belongs to the Saints of the living God.
	We thank thee, holy Father, that in thy
kind providence and heavenly love, when
the whole earth lay in sin and wickedness,
thou didst break the darkness and send
light and blessing to the human family by
thy servant Joseph; that thou didst cause
the angels of heaven to minister to him, by
which thy will has been revealed again to
man upon the earth, and thine authority
has been restored that the righteous may
minister in the name of Jesus, the forgive-
ness of sins, and the power of the Everlast-
ing Covenant by which mankind may be
brought again unto thee. And we thank
thee, Father, that a[-]ter him, when he had
sealed his testimony with his blood, slain
by the hands of wicked assassins, when the
church was young, and feeble on the earth,
thou didst give us thy servant Brigham to
continue those labors, and to spread abroad
the knowledge of thy will and to establish
thy government in the earth.
	O Lord, this morning, we are called to
part with this, one of the noblest sons of
thy numerous family; and we cannot but
recollect the variety, the multitudinous
character and magnitude of the labors he
has performed here upon the earth. But
we realize that we do not yet feel and know
the extent of that loss which we have sus-
tained by his departure. Thou, Father, hast
made him to be a great captain in Israel, to
lead thy people from scenes of great distress
to these retired vales of the earth, where
homes, peace aod plenty have been abun-
dantly given unto us. Where he has been
permitted by his labors and loving counsels
to establish thy people in thy strength and
blessing, by which thine enemies and the
enemies of thy people, and they too in our
very midst, have been vanquished by the
<fvery midst="" have="" been="" vanquished="" by="" the="" o:!="" power="" of="" faith="" that="" implanted="" in1="" bosoms="" -nof'="" thy="" saints,="" i="" we="" thank="" tlifee="" for="" great,="" riltgood="" be="" has-been="" permitted="" to="" doob="" (the="" earth="" and="" especially:="" people="" israel="" r.="" -andwe="" pray="" that?.thou="" wilt="" grant="" :untoi="" us="" drufhrt="" wq="" may="" mourn="" him="" in="" a:="" proper="" jolpcfipptabies.manpei;="" while="" realizo="" mi.pm="" losja.gxfiatwamoy="" rejoice,="" ourfqthor,="" jqhe="" aqti.cipatiqn="" fhat.jpy="" whjch="" heex-<="" -iljpwrcp?,="" :with,thy="" geryanfj="" joseph="" #vlfyr,um.and.="" timso="" who="" gone="" befprq="" v7="" thpjspqapj="" thof="" iaithfnl,="" ,e,ven="" abraham="" pur="" ancestor,="" ,q="" lord,="" wit="" thou="" jet="" prqm-="" ised="" blessed="" influqhqq="" pftky="" holy="" spirit,="" "and="" .presence="" pf="" their="" spirits="" attend="" up-="" '‘'="" .on="" bk="" to-day,="" dnd="" hq="" fejt="" this="" whole="" mul-="" tifliqo,5="" ‘="" giv6'hpf&‘u="" th'ose="" sincere="" in-="" “teijigen.t'jbys.="" gospel="" shaillift="" oursonls="" abovo="" .dv6fy="" earthly="" carp="" ana="" gor-="" v,'towj="">power of faith that is planted in the bosoms
of thy Saints. We thank thee for the great
good he has been permitted to do on the
earth and especially to thy people Israel.
And we pray that thou wilt grant unto us
that we may mourn for him in a proper and
acceptable manner; that while we realize
our loss is great, we may rejoice, our Father,
in the anticipation of that joy which he ex-
periences, with thy servants Joseph and
Hyrum and those who have gone before of
the sons of the Faithful, even Abraham our
<fvery midst="" have="" been="" vanquished="" by="" the="" o:!="" power="" of="" faith="" that="" implanted="" in1="" bosoms="" -nof'="" thy="" saints,="" i="" we="" thank="" tlifee="" for="" great,="" riltgood="" be="" has-been="" permitted="" to="" doob="" (the="" earth="" and="" especially:="" people="" israel="" r.="" -andwe="" pray="" that?.thou="" wilt="" grant="" :untoi="" us="" drufhrt="" wq="" may="" mourn="" him="" in="" a:="" proper="" jolpcfipptabies.manpei;="" while="" realizo="" mi.pm="" losja.gxfiatwamoy="" rejoice,="" ourfqthor,="" jqhe="" aqti.cipatiqn="" fhat.jpy="" whjch="" heex-<="" -iljpwrcp?,="" :with,thy="" geryanfj="" joseph="" #vlfyr,um.and.="" timso="" who="" gone="" befprq="" v7="" thpjspqapj="" thof="" iaithfnl,="" ,e,ven="" abraham="" pur="" ancestor,="" ,q="" lord,="" wit="" thou="" jet="" prqm-="" ised="" blessed="" influqhqq="" pftky="" holy="" spirit,="" "and="" .presence="" pf="" their="" spirits="" attend="" up-="" '‘'="" .on="" bk="" to-day,="" dnd="" hq="" fejt="" this="" whole="" mul-="" tifliqo,5="" ‘="" giv6'hpf&‘u="" th'ose="" sincere="" in-="" “teijigen.t'jbys.="" gospel="" shaillift="" oursonls="" abovo="" .dv6fy="" earthly="" carp="" ana="" gor-="" v,'towj="">ancestor. O Lord, wilt thou let that prom-
ised blessed influence of thy Holy Spirit,
and the presence of their spirits attend up-
on us to-day, and be felt by this whole mul-
titude. Give unto us those sincere and in-
telligent joys of the gospel that shall lift
our souls above every earthly care and sor-
row, that we may be established in the
principles of truth revealed and rejoice in
the restoration of the keys, powers and au-
thority of the Gospel.
	And we pray that thou wilt comfort the
hearts of the bereaved family and house-
hold with such an exalted view of the char-
acter of thy dealings to thy people and to
them as shall enable each to say, "Father,
thy will be done!" Bless the absent mem-
bers of his family, his sons in other lands;
may they in their ministry and studies feel
the consolations of that spirit which Heaven

[Column 2]
alone can give. Bless, we pray thee, the
wives of thy servant who has departed.
May they entertain that truthful, faithful
and virtuous integrity to him which is most
becoming for them, until they shall embrace
him again, to share and rejoice with him
in the fullness of the blessings of immor-
tality and eternal lives. Bless thou and
comfort and honor his sons and daughters,
the commencement of a mighty race in the
earth. O Lord, establish in them the pow-
ers of the everlasting priesthood and cove-
nant, that they may be enabled to live to 
honor their illustrious father. Wilt thou
remember his two sons who have stepped
forward and who are partakers of the apos-
tleship. May they be[-]ome great lights in
their father's house, those upon whom the
others may lean for assistance, for comfort
and for support in all the walks of life. We
pray that thou wilt comfort thine Elders in
all the earth this day; when they hear of 
these sad tidings may the Holy Spirit min-
ister to them, may angels visit them and
make them to feel that all is well.
	We pray thee to hasten the day when
the great work in which thy servant Brig-
ham has taken so active and prominent
a part, shall be extended and magnified
more abundantly in the earth. We thank
thee, O Lord, that thou didst inspire him
in his latter days to build and dedicate
Temples unto thy name and to set in order
the priesthood therein, together with all
the ordinances thereof both for the iiving
and for the dead, that thou didst move up-
on him to more fully organize the people,
set in order thy church, and clothe thy Zion
more abundantly with the powers of the
holy priesthood.
	O Lord, now that thou hast taken him,
let thy blessings come down in greater
abundance and power upon thy servants
who remain; and preserve thy people from
any manner of schism or discord. And let
those upon whom shall devolve the duty
and responsibility of giving guidance to
thy work upon the earth, abide in the bonds
of the everlasting covenant, and may the
revelations of thy will be given unto them,
thy Spirit be in them, and thy counsels be
made manifest through them to all of thy
<fvery midst="" have="" been="" vanquished="" by="" the="" o:!="" power="" of="" faith="" that="" implanted="" in1="" bosoms="" -nof'="" thy="" saints,="" i="" we="" thank="" tlifee="" for="" great,="" riltgood="" be="" has-been="" permitted="" to="" doob="" (the="" earth="" and="" especially:="" people="" israel="" r.="" -andwe="" pray="" that?.thou="" wilt="" grant="" :untoi="" us="" drufhrt="" wq="" may="" mourn="" him="" in="" a:="" proper="" jolpcfipptabies.manpei;="" while="" realizo="" mi.pm="" losja.gxfiatwamoy="" rejoice,="" ourfqthor,="" jqhe="" aqti.cipatiqn="" fhat.jpy="" whjch="" heex-<="" -iljpwrcp?,="" :with,thy="" geryanfj="" joseph="" #vlfyr,um.and.="" timso="" who="" gone="" befprq="" v7="" thpjspqapj="" thof="" iaithfnl,="" ,e,ven="" abraham="" pur="" ancestor,="" ,q="" lord,="" wit="" thou="" jet="" prqm-="" ised="" blessed="" influqhqq="" pftky="" holy="" spirit,="" "and="" .presence="" pf="" their="" spirits="" attend="" up-="" '‘'="" .on="" bk="" to-day,="" dnd="" hq="" fejt="" this="" whole="" mul-="" tifliqo,5="" ‘="" giv6'hpf&‘u="" th'ose="" sincere="" in-="" “teijigen.t'jbys.="" gospel="" shaillift="" oursonls="" abovo="" .dv6fy="" earthly="" carp="" ana="" gor-="" v,'towj="">people. And we forget not to seek thy
blessings upon thy aged servants, now ven-
erable in years, the brothers of thy servant
Brigham. May they, our Father, be able
to emulate most abundantly the worthy and
glorious career of the honored dead whose
remains are now before us. And we pray
that thou wilt lengthen out their days until
their souls shall be satisfied with this life,
and then that they may be gathered to the
glorious host that shall attend to wait upon
them.
	We beseech of thee, our Father, to re-
member thy scattered Israel in every part;
the House of Judah, the Ten Tribes wherev-
er they may be, and the scattered remnants
of this land in which we are permitted to
dwell. May thy word go forth, thy spirit
be diffused, and the power of the priest-
hood that thou hast restored rest not until
Israel be gathered, Zion redeemed, Jeru-
salem built up and thy glory restored to
<fvery midst="" have="" been="" vanquished="" by="" the="" o:!="" power="" of="" faith="" that="" implanted="" in1="" bosoms="" -nof'="" thy="" saints,="" i="" we="" thank="" tlifee="" for="" great,="" riltgood="" be="" has-been="" permitted="" to="" doob="" (the="" earth="" and="" especially:="" people="" israel="" r.="" -andwe="" pray="" that?.thou="" wilt="" grant="" :untoi="" us="" drufhrt="" wq="" may="" mourn="" him="" in="" a:="" proper="" jolpcfipptabies.manpei;="" while="" realizo="" mi.pm="" losja.gxfiatwamoy="" rejoice,="" ourfqthor,="" jqhe="" aqti.cipatiqn="" fhat.jpy="" whjch="" heex-<="" -iljpwrcp?,="" :with,thy="" geryanfj="" joseph="" #vlfyr,um.and.="" timso="" who="" gone="" befprq="" v7="" thpjspqapj="" thof="" iaithfnl,="" ,e,ven="" abraham="" pur="" ancestor,="" ,q="" lord,="" wit="" thou="" jet="" prqm-="" ised="" blessed="" influqhqq="" pftky="" holy="" spirit,="" "and="" .presence="" pf="" their="" spirits="" attend="" up-="" '‘'="" .on="" bk="" to-day,="" dnd="" hq="" fejt="" this="" whole="" mul-="" tifliqo,5="" ‘="" giv6'hpf&‘u="" th'ose="" sincere="" in-="" “teijigen.t'jbys.="" gospel="" shaillift="" oursonls="" abovo="" .dv6fy="" earthly="" carp="" ana="" gor-="" v,'towj="">earth.
	We ask thee, holy Father, to receive our
thanks this morning, for we acknowledge
with gratitude the peace that thou hast
blessed us with. Although thou didst suf-
fer thy servant to be imprisoned for the
truth's sake, thou didst preserve his life
until he could lay it down in peace in his
own house and habitation, in the midst of
his loving family and devoted friends. Be
pleased to continue peace upon our borders
and in our midst, preserve us from the hor-

[Column 3]
rors of war, for thou hast promised to fight
the battles of thy people. While hundreds
of thousands are falling by pestilence in
other lands, here in our valleys, once a wild
desert but now the home of thy saints,
abounds plenty, plenty for man and for
beast. For all this we thank and praise
thee O thou God of Hosts.
	Bless, O Lord, thy servants who may
speak on this occasion. May their words
be full of consolation and comfort to all
those who mourn for we are all mourners
before thee this day. And may we who have
been co-workers with thy servant, so live
and so labor that we may come to a peace-
ful and happy end, and our last days be like
his, that we may rejoice in our labors know-
ing that they are acceptably done. We
dedicate ourselves, our families, this people
and work unto thee the Lord our God; it is
thine, and we are thine. Direct all things
to the glory of thy name, and unto Thee
shall be all praise, glory and honor, through
Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen.
<fvery midst="" have="" been="" vanquished="" by="" the="" o:!="" power="" of="" faith="" that="" implanted="" in1="" bosoms="" -nof'="" thy="" saints,="" i="" we="" thank="" tlifee="" for="" great,="" riltgood="" be="" has-been="" permitted="" to="" doob="" (the="" earth="" and="" especially:="" people="" israel="" r.="" -andwe="" pray="" that?.thou="" wilt="" grant="" :untoi="" us="" drufhrt="" wq="" may="" mourn="" him="" in="" a:="" proper="" jolpcfipptabies.manpei;="" while="" realizo="" mi.pm="" losja.gxfiatwamoy="" rejoice,="" ourfqthor,="" jqhe="" aqti.cipatiqn="" fhat.jpy="" whjch="" heex-<="" -iljpwrcp?,="" :with,thy="" geryanfj="" joseph="" #vlfyr,um.and.="" timso="" who="" gone="" befprq="" v7="" thpjspqapj="" thof="" iaithfnl,="" ,e,ven="" abraham="" pur="" ancestor,="" ,q="" lord,="" wit="" thou="" jet="" prqm-="" ised="" blessed="" influqhqq="" pftky="" holy="" spirit,="" "and="" .presence="" pf="" their="" spirits="" attend="" up-="" '‘'="" .on="" bk="" to-day,="" dnd="" hq="" fejt="" this="" whole="" mul-="" tifliqo,5="" ‘="" giv6'hpf&‘u="" th'ose="" sincere="" in-="" “teijigen.t'jbys.="" gospel="" shaillift="" oursonls="" abovo="" .dv6fy="" earthly="" carp="" ana="" gor-="" v,'towj="">	The benediction was pronounced as fol-
lows, by
		ELDER ORSON HYDE.
	Our Father who art in heaven, in the
name of thy son Jesus Christ, we tender
unto thee the gratitude of our hearts for
the peaceful influence that has pervaded
our hearts on the present occasion. We
thank thee for this lovely day and the sun
that shines so brightly over our heads,
while the earth is illuminated with a grand
display of thy glory.
	We, our Father, in solemn assembly,
have met to pay our last respects unto our
departed friend and brother, President
Brigham Young. We ask thee, O Lord
our God, to seal the instructions upon our
hearts, and may the words which have fall-
en from the lips of thy servants on this oc-
casion find place in the hearts of the hon-
est and the upright, those who desire eter-
nal life in thy kingdom.
	Grant, heavenly Father, to bless and com-
fort the family of thy servant who has left
us; may they find favor with thee; may the
Spirit of the Lord breathe upon them, and
bring them the balm of joy and comfort,
opening wide the door for immortality and
a glorious re-union with him in a time yet
to come.
	Bless, we pray, all the saints here assem-
bled; let thy good Spirit rest upon all—
that we may feel to renew our energies and
that we may form renewed determinations
to serve and honor the Lord our God, and 
to carry out the instructions we have heard
this day, and not only on this occasion, but
on former occasions, that we may become
molded and fashioned unto thine image
and likeness; that when the time comes
when we shall be called hence, we may be
prepared and qualified to mingle our voices
and join with those who have gone before
us; where we can behold our leaders and
join with them in songs of praise to God
and the Lamb. We beseech thee, our Fa-
ther, to let thy blessing rest down upon this
attentive assembly, and upon the Priest-
hood here assembled. And while we con-
template that probably only one-tenth of
the people of this region are here assem-
bled, we pray that our friends may be in-
spired with the spirit of intelligence to ex-
tend the same to all that are not present on 
this occasion.
	O Lord, our God, bless thy people, con-
found everything opposed to them; and let
the truth prevail, let Zion arise and let her
light shine like the rising sun, that she
may fill the whole earth.
	We ask thee, our Father, to remember


those also who have not yet joined the
Saints of the Most High; remember them
in kindness that they may be induced to
abandon their hostility, and finally be
brought into alliance with thy church, that
they too may ascribe honor and praise to
God and the Lamb. And let thy blessing
rest upon all. Forgive our sins; guide us
by thy good spirit in the ways of life.
	We are thankful, our Father, that thy
servant who has gone before us is one that
has fought a good fight, finished his course,
and kept the faith. Help us all to do like-
wise, and thy name shall have the honor
and glory, both now and forever. Amen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the Exponent.
THE AGED COUPLE.

BY MRS. E. J. HARDING.

	Oh, Alice, dear girl, say it not! Say not
that they are homely, but rather how beau-
tiful in their helplessness. They once were
like you—young, loving, hopeful; but time
and sorrow have left their sure, sad trace.
	The deeply furrowed brow, the silvered
hair, and the stooped form, all speak to us
of how much they have suffered, have en-
dured through these long, weary years of
life's struggle. Theirs has been a rough
sea; rude breakers have assailed them,
wave after wave of sorrow and care have
swept over them, and they have at times
almost stranded, and but for the lingering
beam of hope sent by Him who rules the
tempest and the wave, they must have long
since sank to rise no more.
	Weep on, dear Alice, I divine your feel-
ings; and how refreshing the sight of your
pearly tears! but this their hour is not yours.
May the chilling blast never reach you, and
time, the destroyer, deal with you gently.
	Look upon them again. See their coun-
tenances wear a calm, patient, and resigned
expression. They have heard the blessed
promise: "There is rest for the weary!"
	Oh! Alice, assist the tottering feet of the
aged, soothe them by the fondest affection,
and let them not be the object of thy con-
tempt. They are as helpless as children.
Their feeble step is trembling on the brink
of the grave, but their hopes may be firmly
placed on the better shore which lies be-
yond. Their eyes are dim with suffering
and tears, but their spiritual vision may be
contemplating the gradual unfolding of the
gates of rest.
	Remember, my dear Alice, that when
the springtime of life is past, it returns no
more. As the cold, dark winter of age
comes on, this world affords but the frigid
prospect of the interminable night of death.
And how short is the season of youthful
bloom; how soon the flush of beauty fades,
and how transient the smiles of lovely
flowers. It is thus with human life. Time
scathes its loveliest prospect, and draws
over its blooming gardens the faded hue of
decaying nature, or the pall of death. But
we are saved the despair to which these
gloomy reflections would lead us, by the
prospect of having vernal eternal bowers.
Yes, we are permitted to hope that the
springtime of heaven will give eternal
youth to our decaying frames, and light up
our spirits with the exhilarating joys of
holy songs.
	I have often thought how beautiful was
infancy; in its innocent purity, and youth
with the beautiful glow of health upon the
cheek, the warm, glowing heart full of joy-
ful anticipation; of middle age, full of in-
creasing interest, with a healthful, free, ex-
panding mind, a heart filled with generous


impulses; but what is more lovely, or to be
more reverenced, than extreme age? And,
my dear Alice, I would have thee this re-
member, to ever be kind to the aged; to
find it a dear pleasure to soothe their rug-
ged pathway, to light them by cheerful and
hopeful words to a joyous life in store, and
by every kind attention cause them to feel
that they have not lived in vain, but that
their unremitting care and wise teachings
are remembered, and lovingly treasured.
	Ogden, Aug. 23, 1877.


[Column 1]

THE PRINCE OF WALES AT SAND-
RINGHAM, NEAR LYNN.

(From the World.)

	Sandringham is no stately palace, where
comfort is a secondary consideration to
splendor, where sumptuous suites of apart-
ments bear the chilling impress of being
uninhabited and uninhabitable; but a veri-
table English home, designed not for show,
but to be lived in—every detail eloquent of
unostentatious taste and of refined domes-
ticity. The home-savor of Sandringham
begins from the doorstep, for there is no
formal entrance-hall. The vestibule is sim-
ply a part and portion of the great saloon
which may be called the family parlor of
the house. From the saloon opens the busi-
ness room, where the Prince transacts his
correspondence, gives interviews to other
than social visitors, sees his tenants on
questions of improvements, and gives his
personal instructions to land-steward, gar-
dener and head-keeper. On the right of the
vestibule, as one enters the house, lies the
library; a pleasant room in blue and light
oak, whose shelves are filled with books
belonging almost exclusively to the depart-
ments of history and travels. A whole
compartment is devoted to works on the
Crimean War, another to books—many of
which are hard reading enough—on India,
both British and native. Through the
equerry's room, the next of the suite, is
reached the second library, which might
appropriately bear the name of the "Serapis
Room," for it is full of the belongings of
his Royal Highness during his voyagings
in the big troopship. This room opens into
the vestibule of the garden entrance, which,
by reason of its proximity to the drawing-
room, is always used on ball nights. From
the main corridor stretching to the great
staircase there open on the right the princi-
pal reception rooms; but before these are
reached there is passed the Prince's private
morning-room, a family room pure and sim-
ple. From this room a door opens into the
ante-room of the great drawing-room; a 
pretty little apartment in French grey.
The principal drawing-room, like all the
rooms on this side of the house, looks out
into the park across the flower beds, water,
and rockery, to where the antlered red
deer are browsing in the beech glades. It
is a room of fine proportions, of whose walls
the prevalent tint is a pale salmon color;
and its fixed decorations are studiously sim-
ple, consisting merely of a few mirrors
placed panelwise, some floral mouldings, a
painting ceiling, and a single group of statu-
ary. The sweet scent of spring-violets
nestling among moss perfumes the air, and 
there are flowers everywhere; indeed, the
whole house is a floral bower, for the Prin-
cess is passionately fond of flowers, and lit-
erally lives among them. A door-window
of the drawing-room "gives" on a small
domed conservatory projecting from the
garden front of the house. "En suite"with the drawing-room is the dining room,

[Column 2]

a warm tinted, genial looking room, sug
gestive of comfort in its every item. From
the dining room the way leads through a
"corridor of weapons," where the "white
arms" of all ages are arranged in glass-
fronted cabinets on the walls, to the billiard-
room. The annexed smoking-room is the
ante-chamber to the long vista of the bowl-
ing-alley, lighted both from sides and roof,
with raised seats at the upper end, whence
ladies may look down on the tournament of
their squires. During the shooting-season
the routine of Sandringham life has for va-
riety little other than the change of the
scene of the sport. The start is at half past
ten; and if there is any distance to be trav-
ersed, the gunners travel to the scene of
their sport in the char-a-bane and waggonette.
The Sandringham corps of beaters is forty
strong, each member wearing a Norfolk
smock-frock of brown fustian, with a num-
ber on a red badge. Luncheon is at two,
served in a marquee in some convenient
spot, and at this meal the Princess joins the
gentlement, with the ladies who are her
guests. From six to half-past seven the
Prince addresses himself to correspondence
and business; but indeed there is hardly an
hour of the day which his Royal Highness
devotes wholly to pleasure, for his land-
steward generally accompanies him in
shooting excursions, at hand to note sugges-
tions as to improvements which may occur
to the Prince as he tramps over the estate.
It is reputed of the Prince in Norfolk that
no landlord in the county is better acquaint-
ed with the details of his property, and
with a greater zeal for its improvement.
The Sunday is the most characteristic day
of the week at Sandringham. The Princess
drives to Mr. Onslow's little church across
the park; the Prince with his male guests
walks, and after service walks back through
the grounds, intent on pointing out his im-
provements. After luncheon the whole
house-party walk out past the "bachelor's"
cottage to the kennels. A flock of foreign
goats immediately beset the Princess, wise
in their generation and in the full expect-
ancy of tit-bits. There is a leisurely stroll
through the pheasantry and along the
snugly-sheltered cages in which are housed
the Nepaulese birds, which were one of Sir
Jung Bahadoor's gifts. The bear-pit looked
down into, and the bears coaxed to climb
the pole; the dogs claim attention. The
monkey-house cannot be passed over; and
then the party, with multitudinons dogs as
"eclaireurs," stroll away to the gardens.
There is no lack of occupation for days not
devoted to sport. The laboring folk in
Sandringham parish having been all com-
fortably housed in model cottages, the refor-
mation of the cottage architecture and ac-
commodation of the parish at Wolferton—
an outlying portion of the estate—is now
steadily being proceeded with, under the
personal supervision of the Princess her-
self, who sets her face determinedly against
defective and unpicturesque homes for her
laboring people. At a farm in his own
hands in Wolferton parish the Prince has
some fine pedrigree short-horn stock, and is
gradually rearing a herd whose influence
must benefit his neighbors, without the ex-
penditure of sensational prices for the fancy
of a particular strain.


MRS. Gov. Van Zandt, of Rhode Island,
is a daughter of the late Albert G. Green,
who wrote that excessively picturesque
chant, "Old Grimes is Dead." Mrs. Van
Zandt is known for her zeal in charitable
projects.


64		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER FROM
	MRS. JANE E. MOLEN TO HER
	MOTHER.

					LAIE OAHU, July 4.
	This is a day of pleasure at home I pre-
sume, but here I am in school, and as my
pupils are writing their examples I thought
I would commence a letter to my dear
parent, for my mind is with you to-day.
I went across the yard previous to coming
to school to tell the sisters it was the Fourth
of July, they were quite astonished, but all
days are alike here. I try to be happy at
all times even when Santipedes give me a
visit. I was awakened last night at two
o'clock with a large Santipede being in my
bosom. I knew what it was although I was
hardly awake; I jerked it out and in so do-
ing it bit me just above my right breast
and on my right hand, I sprang from the
bed, being fully awakened by this time,
and applied ammonia to the bitten parts,
but got very little rest the remainder of the
night as they were very painful.
					July 24, 4 o'clock
	We have feasted on the rich things of
Laie to-day, beef, poi and potatoes which
were really nice. The natives have done
their best to-day, all came out in white.
The procession was formed just outside the
yard, they marched up in front of our
house and gave three cheers, placing us
white people in front next the band. They
really looked nice, twenty-four young la-
dies dressed in white, with wreaths around
their heads and necks; twenty-four young
men; twenty-four elderly ladies in white
dresses with lays, and twenty-four elderly
men. The house was decorated beautifully.
It takes this people to ornament a room;
besides the things grow here to do it with.
The words written over the stand were,
Aloha na ah chee, July 24th A. D. 1847, the
letters composed of flowers, also "WE OF
LAIE, HAVE MUCH LOVE FOR THE PIO-
NEERS OF 1847.


AMERICAN FORK BRANCH DESERET
		SILK ASSOCIATION.

	A meeting of the Utah County Branch of
the Deseret Silk Association was held at
the meeting house, American Fork City,
Saturday, Aug. 25th, as per notice given.
Quite a number of the silk raisers were
present, and considerable business enacted
pertaining to the organization. Constitu-
tion and by-laws were adopted for the gov-
ernment of the Association, and upon mo-
tion of D. Graves, Esq., it was carried
that the same be printed in due form, to be
distributed among the members. It was
suggested by S. Cornaby, Esq., that items
be kept of the success and failures in the
enterprise, for future information. Bishop
L. E. Harrington was present and aided
materially in the transaction of business.
		Respectfully.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
							Secretary.


MAKING BREAD.

	Farmers will be interested to know that
great changes are being made in bread-mak-
ing. For years physicians have traced dis-
eases of the alimentary canal and its con-
nections to our systems of milling wheat
and to the puffy style of baking. The pas-
sion for white flour obliges the miller to give
to cattle the most nutritious part of the
berry—viz: the gluten or muscle-making
element, without which our common bread
loses two thirds of its value, and imposes
on the digestive organs double duty. Min-


nesota takes the lead, in the reformation.
More than twenty mills are now bleaching
the gluten, so that the flour shows very lit-
tle discoloration. It is claimed that one-
third more water is absorbed and baking is
made easy. Every one admits that the
bread is much sweeter; and dyspeptics find
permanent relief. Thus many mills attest
the growing popularity of this new flour,
and ought to commend the system to Cali-
fornians. Gluten flour is not bran flour,
though bran as now milled includes the
gluten. The new system separates the
bran from the berry; leaving the gluten.
The bran is a mere skin of silex. It is in-
digestible, and therefore bran bread fails of
its purpose.
	The French Government has for fifteen
years past prepared the army and navy
bread by a process kept secret, but effec-
tively it is the same. Now the United
States Government has adopted a system,
which though claiming to be American, is
supposed to be French. It commends itself
to our farmers, because every family can
make its own flour and get bread of greater
sweetness and higher nutriment. The
grain is first put into hot water and cleans-
ed. Then it is allowed to remain immersed
seven hours, or sufficiently to so loosen the
filmy corslets of the berry that it is readily
detatched by agitation and slight friction.
The gluten loses much of its dark shade
without loss of substance. The whole mass
being now swelled is passed through rollers,
which reduce it to pulp ready for the
dough trough. Its subsequent treatment
follows the usual routine. There is in
Chicago a large mill making "attrition
flour," which serves the same purpose.
"Instead of mill-stones taking the very
life out of wheat by close grinding and
heating," fast revolving blades receive the
streaming grain, which in its passage is in-
stantly pulverized without heating. Pre-
viously to this the berry is decorticated
without being robbed of its gluten. We
received a barrel of attrition flour from
Chicago and fully tested it. It required
some change in mixing the dough, but for
sweetness of bread and ease of digestion,
it surpassed all other bread; and certainly
it made one-fourth more bread than cus-
tomary.—San Francisco Chronicle.


[Column 1]
VISITORS TO CONFERENCE
	Amply Repaid by Visiting
TEASDEL,
			FOR
	FAMILY SUPPLIES
			FOR
FALL AND WINTER WEAR.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

	NOTICE TO THE LADIES.
THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
	DRY GOODS,
					IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
	Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

[Column 2]
WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
					SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
				LADIES' JACKETS,
					STOCKINGS, YARNS,
						SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
							LATEST STYLES OF
								FANCY WORSTED TIES,
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of Jamaica Ginger
HOME-MADE WOOLEN BATTING,
	NEW ZEALAND FLAX SEED.

DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1877	No. 9.


For the EXPONENT.
A BIRTHDAY OFFERING.

Through the forest of thought I've been roaming
	Piercing deep through its inmost recess,
If perchance I might cull from her treasures.
	A bright garland—the fairest and best,
Unfaltering I've pressed through the thicket,
	Never once heeding brier or thorn,
That stood by as a vanguard or picket,
	Thus to turn my poor efforts to scorn.

I have peered into dark cell and grotto,
	Traversed yawning ravines and deep glade,
I have crossed over wild roaring torrent,
	Wandered far in the thick jungle's shade.
And I paused near the brink of a river
	Flowing onward through time's golden sands,
Murmuring of the mystic forever,
	That awaiteth the pure of all lands.

I have mused over moss-covered emblems;
	As they whispered of glory long past,
Of their broad spreading branches and tendrils
	[---] had withered and chilled in his grasp
I gathered a pearl from the [---]
	That now cover a stately old elm,
And I've borne it 'mid trials and crosses,
	As a charm for thy bosom dear Em.

It will tell thee youth's morning is fleeting,
	Like the dew of the flower its day,
To seek ever true knowledge and wisdom
	That will live when all else pass away.
A bright diamond of truth I have woven.
	In a wreath of fair laurel and bay,
Let it grace thy pure brow lovely maiden,
	To the end of life's devious way.

Like the rainbow its light shall illumine,
	Thy pathway through this vale of tears,
Guide thee safe to that brighter dominion
	Where they never more count up the years.
I have come with my offering dear Emma,
	O do not now reject it I pray!
Keep it sacred and wear it forever;
	In memoriam of thy birthday.

S. L. City, Sept. 10, 1877.


[Column 1]

EPISTLE

OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES AND COUNSEL- 
ORS TO THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF
LATTER-DAY SAINTS IN ALL THE WORLD.

BELOVED SAINTS:

	A time of mourning has fallen upon
Zion, and it is with feelings of profound
sadness that we address this epistle unto
you. Our beloved, brother, guide and
counselor, our prophet, seer and revelator,
President Brigham Young, has been taken
from our midst by death. Surrounded by
his family and friends, and in his own
house and in the city of which, under the
Lord, he was the founder, his spirit peace-
fully passed from this mortal existence in-
to that state of rest prepared for the right-
eous. Though harassed and bitterly per-
secuted, especially of late years, his ene-
mies were not permitted to take his life.
He has not been called by the Lord to die a
martyr's death; yet his entire life has
proved his willingness to endure even that
ordeal, if it had been the good pleasure of
the Lord to require it of him. He has
shrunk from no issue, and has been willing
to risk liberty and life at the call of duty,
even when his friends trembled for his
safety.
	At a ripe old age, in the quiet of his own

[Column 2]

home, he has passed to his rest. This is a 
consolation to us who survive him. Noth-
ing that has occurred to us since we came
to th[---]
the Saints like this sad event. He not only
has been the President of the Church, but
a father to the people. Their welfare and
prosperity, their preservation from evil,
and their advancement in everything holy
and pure has always been the uppermost
thought and desire of his heart. In his 
love for and devotion to the work of God
he has never wavered. During the thirty-
three years that he has presided over the
Church, since the martyrdom of the Proph-
et Joseph, his knees have never trembled,
his hands have never shook; he has never
faltered or qualied. However threatening
the surroundings or prospects may have
been, he has never been dismayed; but at
those times he has exhibited such serene
confidence and faith, and uttered such
words of encouragement, as to comfort and
[---] all the people and to call forth their
love [---]
not only blessed him with [---]
dowed him with great wisdom. His coun-
sels, when obeyed, have been attended
with salvation, and as an organizer and ad-
ministrator he has no superior. Of this the
people of the entire church are his witness-
es, and our Territory, as well as the many
settlements in the adjacent Territories are
his monuments. He always had the coun-
sel of the Lord and none ever sought it
from him in vain.
	Beloved Saints: We have been greatly
favored of the Lord in being permitted to
live in this dispensation and in having
been led by two such men as the prophets
Joseph and Brigham. Of Joseph, the
prophet and seer of the Lord, it has been
truthfully said, that at his death, he had
done more (save Jesus only,) for the devel-
opment of the principles of life and salva-
tion of men in this world, in the space of
time in which he was on earth than my
other man that ever lived upon it. The
prophet Brigham has proved himself wor-
thy to be his successor.
	His labors the Lord has crowned with
the most remarkable success, his words he
has honored and fulfilled, and those who
have obeyed his counsel he has blessed and
upheld. The time will yet come when his
presidency over the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints will be pointed to as an
epoch of wonderful events. In the provi-
dence of the Lord, however, he has been
taken from us. Great efforts in prayer have
been made, and constant administration of
the gospel ordinance for the sick, to still
keep him here; but the Lord has ordered
otherwise. We must here acknowledge 
that it is the Lord to whom he was indebt-
ed for the wisdom and intelligence display-
ed by him. The bestowal of these gifts
manifests the care and supervision which
He exercises over His people; for these
blessings are all the gift of God, and all em-
anate from Him. The Prophets Joseph
Smith and Brigham Young have been, and
now are, in His hands as His instruments
in doing His work, and so are we. We
have the same consolation, however, in this 
our time of grief and deep affliction, that

[Column 3]

the Prophet Brigham had upon hearing of
the cruel martyrdom of the prophets Joseph
and Hyrum—"the keys of the [---]
[---] Joseph
may be martyred, Brigham may die so far
as this life may be concerned; but our Heav-
enly Father still lives, the holy priesthood
and apostleship, which He restored to the
earth, still remain to guide and govern,
and to administer ordinances to the Church
which He has established. Our beloved
brother Brigham Young has gone to join
the prophet Joseph and the host of the holy
and the pure who are behind the vail; but
we do not therefore lose the benefit of his
labors. He is now in a position to do more
for that work which he loved so well, and
for which he labored so ardently, than he
could possibly do in the flesh; and that
work will roll onward with Increased power
and accelerated speed.
	The President of the Church having
been taken from us by death, the Church is
now placed in the same position as it was at
the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph-
of the First Presidency to the [---]
ties, the Prophet Joseph said (Millennial
Star, Vol. XV., page 595), "the Twelve are
not subject to any other than the First
Presidency, viz: myself, Sydney Rigdon,
and Frederick G. Williams, who are now
my counselors (and where I am not there is
no First Presidency over the Twelve)" Af-
ter the death of the prophet Joseph, Presi-
dent Young, in speaking to the Saints,
said: "For the first time in the kingdom
of God, the Twelve Apostles of the Lamb,
chosen by revelation, in the last dispensa-
tion of the gospel for the winding up scene,
present themselves before the Saints to
stand in their lot according to appoint-
ment."
	"Here are the Twelve appointed by the
finger of God, who hold the keys of the
priesthood and the authority to set in or-
der and regulate the church in all the
world. Here is Elder Amasa Lyman and
Elder Sydney Rigdon; they were counsel-
ors in the First Presidency, and they are
counselors to the Twelve still, if they keep
their places; but if either wish to act as
'spokesman' for the Prophet Joseph, he
must go behind the vail where Joseph is."
—Times and Seasons, Vol. 5, page 637.
	Once more the necessity for the Twelve
Apostles to step forward and take the Pres-
idency of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter day Saints has arisen. The same
spirit which rested upon the prophet Jos-
eph before his martyrdom, in instructing
the Twelve Apostles as to their duties and
responsibilities and the necessity of their
bearing off the kingdom, has rested upon
the Prophet Brigham Young during this
past spring and summer. He released all
the Twelve who were presiding over 
Stakes, from those duties, selected others
 to fill those positions,and taught the Church
that the Twelve Apostles were called by
their priesthood to act in a wider and more
extended sphere than to be presidents of
stakes. All his teachings and counsels
indicated that there would be an increase
of responsibility and jurisdiction resting
upon them, and that they would be held to


[Column 1]
a stricter accountability than they had
been. We can now understand and at-
tach an importance and significance to
these teachings and counsels which we
could not at the time they were given.
	On Tuesday, September 4th, the two
counselors of President Young and ten of
the Twelve Apostles,—two of the Twelve,
Brothers Orson Pratt and Joseph F. Smith,
being absent in England,—held a meeting
contrite and saddened hearts we earnestly
sought to learn His mind and will concern-
ing us and His Church. The Lord blessed
us with a spirit of union and condescended
to reveal to us what steps we should take,
Elder John Taylor, the senior Apostle, and
who has acted as the President of the
Twelve, was unanimously sustained in that
position. With the same unanimity also
it was voted that the quorum of the Twelve
Apostles is the presiding quorum and au-
thority in the Church.
	These things are so plainly indicated by
the revelations and in the past history of
the Church that they could not be ignored,
either by the Twelve Apostles or by the
President's Counselors. Hence, again, as
a similar course was adopted on the death
of the Prophet Joseph, the two Counselors
of President Young—Presidents John W.
Young and Daniel H. Wells—were unani-
mously sustained as one with, counselors
to and associated in [---] [---] the Twelve 
Apostles.
	To facilitate the transaction of business
it was voted unanimously that for the pres-
ent, President John Taylor be assisted by
Brothers John W. Young, Daniel H. Wells,
and George Q. Cannon in attending to busi
ness connected with the Temples, the pub
lic works, and other church affairs of a fi-
nancial character.
	Inquiries have arisen respecting the
brethren who have been employed by the
various quorums to work ou the Temple.
Upon this subject we desire to say that it
is not intended in making the change that
has been suggested—for the pay of the
brethren to come through the Bishops in-
stead of the quorums—to release those who
have subscribed through the quorums; but
only to put it in another shape. It is ex-
pected that the members of the quorums
will still continue to do what they have
hitherto done; but the pay given will
be made to the Bishops of their respective
Wards, who should, as early as possible, as-
certain from the various members of quo-
rnms in their Wards that which each one
has been paying, and collect the same, so
that they may be prepared by this means
to meet the payments as they come due.
We hope that instead of slackening in our
efforts to push the Temples forward, there
will be an increase of zeal and energy on
the part of all, from the Apostles, through
all the ranks of the priesthood to the young-
est member of the Church.
	The Bishops in all the Stakes of Zion
should make arrangements to have a meet-
ing of the lesser priesthood in their Wards
once every week. These meetings they
should attend personally with their coun-
selors, so as to give necessary instruction,
and also that they may learn the true con-
dition of the flock over which they are
called to preside. At 11 o'clock a. m. on
the first Saturday in every month there
should be held in every Stake a general
priesthood meeting of all the officers of the
church. These meetings should be held at
the place in each Stake most convenient for
this purpose; and full reports of the condi-
tion of the various Wards should be made

[Column 2]
to these meetings by the Bishops. In-
struction and counsel can then be given
that will have the effect to produce concert
of action in all matters of a public charac-
ter in the different Stakes, and that will
result in the spread of the principles of the
gospel among the people and the more per-
fect development of the Church.
	That there may be a correct understand-
ing among all the Stakes of Zion respect-
ing the time for holding the quarterly con-
[illegible line]
Presidents be enabled to make preparations
therefor, we have deemed it best to make
the following appointments for the confer-
ences for the next half year. It will be
seen that in most instances they will be
held in two Stakes upon the same days.
This is unavoidable, in consequence of the
great number of Stakes.
	Salt Lake Stake, Oct. 6, 1877—Jan. 5 and
		6, 1878.
	Davis and Utah Stakes, Oct. 13 and 14
		1877—Jan 12 and 10, 1878.
	Weber and Juab Stakes, Oct. 20, and 21,
		1877—Jan. 19 and 20, 1878.
	Tooele and Box Elder Stakes Oct. 27 and
		28, 1877—Jan. 26 and 27, 1878.
	Wasatch and Cache Stakes, Nov. 3, and
		4, 1877—Feb. 2 and 3, 1878.
	Summit and Bear Lake Stakes, Nov. 10
		and 11, 1877—Feb. 9 and 10, 1878.
	Morgan and [---] Stakes,  Nov. 17 and
		18, 1877—Feb 16 and 17, 1878.
	Sevier and Millard Stakes, Nov. 24 and
		25, 1877—Feb. 23 and 24, 1878.
	Panguitch and Beaver Stakes, Dec. 1 and 
		2, 1877—March 2 and 3, 1878.
	Kanab and Iron Stakes, Dec. 8 and 9,
		1877—March 9 and 10, 1878,
	St. George Stake, Dec. 15 and 16, 1877
		—March 16 and 17, 1878.
	As the time for holding our General
Semi Annual Conference is approaching, it
is very desirable that complete reports be
prepared by those officers whose duty it is
to make reports. The circular, issued re-
cently by the First Presidency, explains
the necessity for and character of these re-
ports. Blank forms have also been prepar-
ed, and have been published by the Deser-
et News, for reports of Bishops and Presi-
dents of Stakes. Immediate steps should
be taken by the Bishops of the various
Wards and by others who are presiding
over branches, to obtain full reports upon
all the points included in the blank forms.
These when completed should be sent to
the Presidents of Stakes, who should, from
these reports, draw up their reports, includ-
ing as complete a financial exhibit as prac-
ticable, and either forward, or bring them
to the Conference in this city. Before Pres-
ident Young's sickness, he arranged for the
monthly Priesthood meeting of the Salt Lake
Stake of Zion, to be held in the New Tab-
ernacle on Thursday, the 4th of October.
This will be a general meeting, and will be
held at 10 o'clock a.m. All the Priesthood
and Saints are invited to attend that meet-
ing, also those held in the afternoon of
that day, and the next day, Friday the 5th,
preparatory to the General Semi-annual
Conference, which will commence on Sat-
urday, the 6th of October.
	And now, brethren and sisters, we ex-
hort you to arouse yourselves and to seek
unto the Lord in fervent faith and prayer.
We know that our Father in heaven is a
God of revelation. He is ready and will-
ing to pour out His blessings and gifts up-
on those who seek unto Him for them.
We need them as individuals and as a peo-
ple to qualify us for the duties which de-
volve upon us. We should remember and
carry into practical effect the counsels and

[Column 3]
instructions we have so liberally received
from our departed President. He has gone
from us; but the flock is not left without a
shepherd. Latter-day Saints should so
live that they may know the voice of the
true shepherd, and not be deceived by pre-
tenders. This is the privilege of every
member of the Church, and the Latter-day
Saint who does not live so as to have the
revelations of Jesus constantly with him,
stands in great danger of being deceived
and falling away. We have before us the
building up and redeeming of Zion. This
can only be done by the aid of the Lord.
All the signs which the Lord promised to
send in the last days are making their ap-
pearance. They show that the day of the
Lord is near. A great work has got to be
done, and there is but little time in which
to accomplish it; great diligence is, there-
fore, required. Let us, then, go to with
our might and build the Temples of the 
Most High and accomplish every other la-
bor devolving upon us. Let us not slacken
our diligence or give way to doubt, unbe-
lief or hardness of heart; but be strong in
the Lord, and cry unto Him unceasingly to
give us the power to build up His Zion on
the earth and to help establish a reign of
righteousness, peace and truth.
	Our prayers are offered [---] in be-
[---] all the officers and Saints composing
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, that the Lord will pour out upon
them the spirit of consolation and that He
will endow them with the revelations of
the Lord Jesus so bountifully that every
one will understand his duty and be prompt
in the fulfillment thereof. Let us build
each other up in the most holy faith, culti-
vating love, meekness and lowliness of
heart, charity, patience and long-suffering,
bearing with each other's faults, and yet
avoiding the very appearance of evil, so
that others, seeing our good works, may be
led to glorify God.
	We remain your brethren in the new
and everlasting covenant,
			JOHN TAYLOR,
			WILFORD WOODRUFF,
			ORSON HYDE,
			CHARLES C. RICH,
			LORENZO SNOW,
			ERASTUS SNOW,
			FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS,
			GEORGE Q. CANNON,
			BRIGHAM YOUNG,
			ALBERT CARRINGTON,
			JOHN W. YOUNG,
			DANIEL H. WELLS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	PANGUITCH, IRON Co., Sept. 14th 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Wishing to represent the Relief Society
of this place, I make the following report:
During the past year the Society have
erected a commodious brick building for
their use, which we hope to have finished
this present fall. Up to this date the build-
ing has cost some twelve hundred dollars.
The Society have been greatly assisted by
the liberal donations of the brethren in the
erection of this house. Our Society has
donated at different times, to the build-
ing and finishing of the St. George Temple;
while the necessities of the poor have not
been forgotten.
	Our Society is conducted under the Pres-
idency of Mrs. Myra Henrie, assisted by
Mrs. Phebe M. Sevey and Mrs. Margaret J.
Kartchner, as Counselors.
	MISS MARY B. HEYWOOD,
		Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE BABY.

What is all this noise about?
	The house is full of joy to-day;
Hear the laugh and call ring out,
	They cannot hear a word I say;
I cannot read, or think [---]
	In all this racket full of fun;
I really wish that it were night,
	And they were sleepy, every one.

I don’t know what I want to do,
	For hard as I may try to think; 
The sound of those boot heels goes through
	My ears so sharp, it makes me wink.
And I know just how the hair I curled
	So silken smooth an hour ago,
For a rosy-cheeked, dear little girl,
	Is tossing, flying high and low.

And the baby's as wild as either one,
	The darling little household prince!
O’er racket of chairs that fall as they run,
	He shrieks with Joy: I fairly wince,
Why! “the baby is walking alone to-day,"
	The first time in his little life:
Ah! the thought near takes my breath away,
	And the happy words cut like a knife.

“O! aint you proud ma'am?" Susan asks,
	"And how surprised pa'pa will be!"
And she forgets her crowding tasks,
	And gives him kisses two and three.
Proud? when his first steps alone,
	Open my eyes to the truth, heart sore;
He out of his babyhood has grown,
	And needs my leading hand no more.

And it seems as though the baby boy
	I have loved so silently and well;
Must have been a dream-child, and the joy,
	The year has passed, an unbroken spell;
And now, instead of a babe in my arms,
	Starting in sleep when I lay him down;
My heart is thrilled with swift alarms;
	While steady and sure, he runs around.

O my boy! to think that you,
	Would choose to slide from your mother's
		kneee;
Would rather shout with those tom boys two,
	Than here in her loving arms to be.
When did you change you butter-fly,
	From a cradled thing to a thing of flight?
No, no, I cannot laugh while I
	Look on the new and doubtful sight.

The wide earth luring thee to go;
	Temptations smile; ambition’s call;
And thou a man! life's ways must know,
	Must meet the lessons one and all
And I have fleen thy brightest love!
	How weak alas! thy mother's arms?
They cannot keep thee. Lord above,
	Lead Thou my darling safe from harm.

AGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

		BLOOMINGTON, Sept. 11th, 1877.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	Although feeling very busy and not hav-
ing much time, still I am going to steal
time enough to scribble a few words to you
aud the many readers of the EXPONENT.
You have often asked me to write a descrip-
tive letter of the scenery and views in and
around this Bear Lake Country. I have
hesitated to do so, but only on account of
my inability. However I shall make a
bold attempt, and beg you to remember my
verdancy and inexperience, and therefore
excuse all failures.
	The first time I came here, we went by
train to Franklin, and came "over the moun-
tain." We traveled north and northeast
until arriving at the mountain, when we
commenced to go east and southeast. As
we passed along from Franklin the eye was
feasted with rolling, sweeping hills rising
one after and above another in romantic
and picturesque fashion, their sides covered
with wavy, crispy grass; and in the valleys
beautiful rich meadows swaying and danc-
ing, with the breeze singing and sighing in
the truant leaves. The hills gradually rise

[Column 2]
and rise, until behold, they are mountains,
and you witness that novelty in this coun-
try, a canon of soft sloping mountains,
their outlines gracefully curving and droop-
ing against the clear autumn sky lik[---]
[---] Hebe. This con-
tinues till at last you are at the foot of the
mountain dugway, which is two or three
miles in length. Up you start on a slow
walk, but as you gradually ascend you wish
yourself a bird with power to fly up this
long tedious road. Plodding wearily along,
my companion called me to halt, and turn
around and gaze on the scene below. With
a cry of delight I fastened my rapt eyes
on the grand panorama stretched below me,
and at once felt amply repaid for all weari-
ness. Oh, the loveliness of nature's pavil-
ions! Aunt Em, could you have been 
[---] me then, your delight like
mine would have been too deep for words.
Mountain after mountain, hill after hill,
vale after vale stetched out in endless beau-
ty; while here and there silver streams
rushed down through canons and valleys.
The whole country is one grand sweeping
mass of smooth mountains and hills. And
way off in the distance a chain of high,
frowning mountains stand like sentinels
over a group of rambling youths and maid-
ens. At last we reach the top and begin to
descend; now the whole character of the
scenery is changed. The road trails along
through canons that bring vividly to the
mind stories and legends of the ancient
Norse country, with spicy, piny woods and
wild, rugged mountains towering far above
you, and clear to the tops just one black
mass of pine forests. The woody smell is
fragrant and pleasant. Through the canon
you twist and turn, now pulling up steep
hills, now tearing down on the other side.
I was forcibly reminded of a little poem I
had read somewhere, about the wind, when
first allowed to roam the earth, it tried
every species of tree to find a home, but
was dissatisfied until it finally reached the
beautifnl pine. Here it resolved to make
its abode. The sweet, wailing sound issu-
ing from these trees is soothing and at
times mournful. While riding along, anon
gazing at one lone tree, then peering into
the dark recesses of impenetrable forests,
the thought came up in my mind, ah, well,
if the oak with its sturdy, burly shape is
king of the forest, is not the tall, stately,
beautiful pine its royal consort? At a sud-
den turn in the road we beheld a powerful
black bear, lazily wending its way across
the road. We had ample time to mark its
different points, ere his bearship was lost to
view in the surrounding trees. You do
not leave the canon until about four miles
from Liberty, which is the first settlement
you reach in Bear Lake Valley. Now don't
get "turned round" as I did and fancy you
came in at the south end of the valley and
are travelling north, for the case is exactly
reversed. As you proceed through the
valley, you notice its rolling character in
this part. Up and down, up and down,
without any noticeable cessation. As you
pass through Paris, your eye is painfully
aware of the fact that there are no trees.
Nothing to relieve the monotony of mud
roofs and log houses. Paris seems to be a 
thriving little place, and some few brick
houses are rearing their modest heads.
Along the road you occasionally see spark-
ling, livid streams of water, dashing, splash-
ing on their way, their banks generally
overgrown with willows. This place is just
about two miles from Paris. The principal
thought I remember of being in my mind
on arriving here was, how Dame Nature

[Column 3]
ever contrived to get so many endless hills
in so small a space.
			Yours as ever,
							S[---]


EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS OF EL-
DER JOSEPH F. SMITH, TO HIS
FAMILY.

	I hasten to drop you a few lines
before leaving for Leeds this afternoon.
Saturday has come again, and with it comes
our general mail day, which gives us plenty
to busy ourselves with until evening.
	We can only imperfectly surmise the
anxiety and grief into which all the Saints
are plunged by the sudden and, to us, most
unexpected demise of President Young.
We had not so much as heard a syllable of
his sickness, and having watched his labors	
through the settlements, as published in
the "News," we supposed he was enjoying
remarkable health and vigor. It is true
that on the night of the 21st and 22d of
August, which seems to be about the time
he was taken with his last illness, Brother
Pratt had a remarkable dream about the
President, which he told us on the morning
of the 22d. He saw him (Pres. Young)
riding in his carriage, when suddenly his 
horses took a fright and dashed down a
steep bank into a deep river, or stream of
water, rushed through the stream and up
the abrupt and seemingly impassable de-
clivity on the other side. We all decided,
if the dream indicated anything, it meant
some sudden difficulty or trouble through
which the President would have to pass.
For several days previous to getting the
sad news, I had an impression that some
great event was about to happen.
	Day before yesterday, Aug. 30th, we re-
ceived the melancholy intelligence of the 
death of President Young at one minute
past four p. m. the day previous. Before
night (Aug. 30,) all the papers of this coun-
try had the account of his death in them;
some of them with comments, but mostly
containing the simple telegraphic news of
his death.
	Two years ago to-day the same sad news
of the death of President George A. Smith
flashed over the wires to the nations of the
earth; and on the day after his death I re-
ceived the news in the same manner as it 
now came of the demise of President
Young. We were all struck, I may say
stunned with amazement and grief at the
most unexpected, sad news. Yet there is
consolation in the reflection that, unlike his
predecessor, the Prophet Joseph Smith, he
died not by violence in the midst of ene-
mies, but in peace in the midst of his
family, and in the midst of his friends.
	And now may the spirit of peace and un-
broken union brood over the councils of the
Priesthood and upon the assemblies of all
Israel. The spirit of peace abides with us,
for we know the Lord God Omnipotent
reigneth, and He is the master-builder of
His own House. May God bless you all, is 
my earnest prayer.


MRS. Elizabeth Thompson has mrde an
appeal to the thinking people of America,
by offering prizes for the best article on the
"Labor Question" in its widest scope. They
were to be sent to the Library Table: New
York, before the first of October,


MISS ROSE Eytinge will appear in the
most prominent New England lecture
courses the coming season.


68		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $[-].00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCT. 1, 1877.


WOMAN'S POSITION IN UTAH.

HERE in these valleys, hemmed in from the
discordant elements of the outside world by the
stupendous, mountains that tower to such sub-
lime heights, are a race of women, who surpass
in their heroism, in their endurance, and in
conscious independence of character any, we
believe, in the known world. The union of
heart and soul which characterizes them as a
class; is one of the most strengthening influ-
encess which could be brought to bear in mak-
ing them heroic in the truest sense of the term.
Women vote in Utah! Yes they do, conscien-
tiously and independently, for they have been
taught the principles of action which lead
them into legitimate channels of true indepen-
dence. Mormonism begins at the very founda-
tion of the superstructure, and teaches how to
build a solid basis on which to erect the finest
edifice of character the human mind is capaple
of rearing.
	The world at large do not understand how to
lay the bed-rock which will make the fabric
they build so elaborately, strong and lasting.
They build up splendid theories, they sound
well, they please the fancy and they pass in
the minds of many for the true and genuine
article; but to the eye and heart able to discern
error, they are only a myth, a phantom, soon to
pass away and be replaced by something new
and more startling, or attractive. Some of
them they revise and patch up and remodel,
but after all, they are only added to, and built
on, and made more likely to fall by the heavy
material put on to ornament, which being too
heavy a strain upon the first foundation makes
it crumble into a heap of ruins all the sooner.
But when truth is the foundation, and every
rock used in the building is composed of true
principle, and joined together with honesty
and integrity, and ornamented with true chari-
ty "after the similitude of a palace," such a
structure would be likely to stand some perilous
storms, and withstand the buffetings of the
tempest, especially when God is the founder
and builder thereof. The women here have a
voice through the press, which gives them a
channel of expression and adds much to their
strength as a class, and enables them to let each
other and the world know what is being done
in helping to prepare for a wider field of useful-
ness, and to hold with a firmer hand their posi-
tion as citizens.
The women of the world wonder how Woman's
Suffrage was so easily obtained in this Territory.
They cannot comprehend that God was in it.
If the women of Utah realized their privileges
they would know they were the most favored
of all their sex. They have the noblest incen-
tives to action, the broadest scope in which to
labor, and, if they are wise, they will hold the
ballot sacred as the gift of God to them and use
it judiciously.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

THE laying of the corner-stones of the Temple
				[---] County Stake took place
in Logan, Sept. 17, at 12 o'clock m. President
John Taylor and others of the Quorum of the
Twelve Apostles, Counselor D. H. Wells, Pres-
idents of Seventies, Bishopric, Salt Lake Stake
of Zion, and other organizations, had gone
thither to be present on that grand occasion.
The local authorities, and those of Weber
Stake, with thousands of people, assembled to
witness the solemn and imposing ceremonies.
We will devote some space to the particulars
in our next issue.

THE Semi-Annual Conference is very near, and
the general feeling seeems to be that it will be
one of the most important [---] in the
history of the Church. Elders Orson Pratt
and Joseph F. Smith arrived at home on the
evening of Sept. 27. No doubt the Conference
will be largely attended, and the teachings of a
nature to inspire the people to renewed dili-
gence in serving God. A spirit of peace and
union prevails throughout the homes and
hearts of the Saints, and the Lord is doubtless
ready to pour out his Spirit in abundance upon
all who are prepared to receive it.

THE laying of the corner-stones for the New
Tabernacle to be erected inside the Temple
wall, near the Old Tabernacle ground, took
place Sept. 28, at 12 o'clock m. There were
present President John Taylor and several of
the Twelve Apostles, Counselor D. H. Wells,
President Angus Cannon and many Seventies,
High Priests and Elders, with thousands of
people. Prayers were offered by Elder George
Q. Cannon and Elder Joseph F. Smith, hymns
were sung, and remarks were made by Presi-
dent John Taylor, who presided at the cere-
mony.

	WE HAD the pleasure of visiting, in compa-
ny with Miss E. R. Snow and Mrs. P. Kimball,
Brighton Ward Relief Society, Sept. 18, on the
occasion of the Annual Meeting of that branch
of the Relief Society. The Society convened at
the residence of the president, Mrs. Mary Ann
Hazon, a comfortable farm cottage, where neat-
ness and order seemed apparent in the sur-
roundings. The meeting was conducted sys-
tematically, and the secretary's report showed
plainly the perseverence under difficulties of
the good sisters of that district. They had a
very praiseworthy report of their proceedings
during the year.

	THE ANNUAL Meeting of the First Ward Re-
trenchment Association was held in the 1st
Ward schoolhouse, Sept. 26. There was a very
full attendance, and the members of the Asso-
ciation had a bountiful dinner prepared for in-
vited guests, at the house of Mrs. Mary W.
Musser. Elder Woodruff of the Quorum of
the Twelve was present; also some other breth-
ren, including the Bishop. Mrs. Sarah M.
Graham, President of the Young Ladies' Asso-
ciation, presided with dignity. After usual
exercises, minutes, &c, Mrs. Zina D. Young,
Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. Zina
Williams, Mrs. E. Thomas, Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. W. East, Mrs. M. B. Young, Mrs. E. S.
Barney and Mrs. Phebe Woodruff each made
a few remarks calculated to inspire those pres-
ent with zeal and earnestness in the sphere of
woman's usefulness in the path that leads to
everlasting life. Miss E. R. Snow made some
statements in regard to the Woman's Commis-
sion House and explained the circumstances
which necessitated the change that had been
made. She also stated to the meeting that it
had seemed to be the wish of President Brig-
ham Young that the young ladies should

[Column 2]
change the name of their organizations from
Retrenchment to Mutual Improvement. Presi-
dent Sarah Graham proposed making the
change suggested, and it was moved, seconded
[---]sly carried.
	Elder W. Woodruff spoke earnestly upon
the great work of Temples and administration
for the living and dead; related some of his ex-
periences and labor in the St. George Temple,
and among the people in that vicinity; also
touched upon many other glorious and inspir-
ing themes. Elder Joseph E. Taylor of the
presidency of this Stake of Zion made some
very concise and pithy remarks upon the work
of women, of mothers in Israel, the laws of
life and health, and other things of equal im-
portance.

	A FEW of the sisters recently visited Grants-
ville, to be present at the Annual Meeting of
the Relief Society, and also to meet with the
Young Ladies' Association. Leaving Salt Lake
City in the Western Railway train at 7 o'clock
a. m., Sept. 13, we had a pleasant ride on the
cars, and were met at the Half Way House by
two of the good sisters of Grantsville with a
span of horses and wagonette, and with a
good team, smooth roads and a skillful driver
we had an agreeable ride, and at Bishop Ed.
ward Hunter's the party of us were warmly
welcomed and partook of a bountiful repast
hospitably served. The Society convened in
the meeting house, a very neat looking, sub-
stantial edifice, finished in good taste, and
filled with happy faces in expectation of a good
time. An organ well played and a well-trained
choir with melodious voices added greatly to
the enjoyment of the meeting. President
Mary Ann Hunter conducted the meeting in a
most happy manner, and the report read by
the secretary, Mrs. M. A. House, showed not
only industry, energy and benevolence but
their ability to manage business affairs system-
atically. After the sisters had spoken upon the
subjects relating to woman's labors in the vine-
yard of the Lord, the many departments of
usefulness which come within her sphere at
home and among the saints in assisting to bear
the burden of establishing the kingdom of
God, President Hunter invited the brethren
present to address the meeting. Bishop Row-
berry, Br. Rydalch, Bishop Hunter and Br.
Reich each made some excellent remarks, en-
couraging the sisters to persevere, and mani-
festing a deep interest in all their labors.
	The next morning, Sept. 14, at ten o'clock a.
m., the Young Ladies' Association met at the
same place. The house was well filled and a
good spirit seemed to pervade the assembly.
The sisters spoke upon the object of these so-
cieties, the necessity of home industries, and
the topics of general interest at the present
time. Grantsville is a flourishing town with
comfortable looking homes: the farms, orchards
and gardens are particularly thriving, and
prosperity seems to have crowned their indus-
try. The visit was altogether an enjoyable
and we sincerely trust a profitable one.

	DR. ROMANIA B. Pratt has returned from
the East. She has received her diploma from
the Woman's Medical College, Philadelphia,
and has fully prepared herself with the neces-
sary instruments and apparatus to commence
the practice of her profession as physician and
surgeon. Her office is now at her residence in
the 12th Ward of this city, on Theatre street,
east of Main Street. Dr. Pratt has spent four
years in studying, and since she graduated
from Philadelphia has been passing some time
at other institutions of the kind, making spe-
cialities of the water-cure and obstetrics. This
lady is expected to give lectures to the medi-


[Column 1]

cal class of ladies in this city. The lectures for
the present will be held as before in this office
every Wednesday at four o'clock p. m. We
sincerely hope the class will be punctual in 
their attendance.
	Wednesday, Sept. 26, Office EXPONENT: Class
met pursuant to adjournment, with a good at-
tendance and several visitors. Prayer by Mrs.
P. Woodruff. Mrs. Zina D. Young made a
few appropriate remarks, and tendered her res-
ignation in favor of Dr. Pratt, who expressed
her thanks for confidence, and trusted she had
been inspired with the desire to disseminate
knolwedge among her sex, &c. A suggestion
was made to re-organize the Medical class, and
in connection to re-organize another to prepare
women for professional nurses.
	Dr. Pratt recommended the study of medical
science to ladies who did not expect to become
professional practictioners, as it would better
fit them to discharge the duties and meet the
responsibilities of motherhood, and those of
family superintendence.
	WE ARE truly gratified in being able to an-
nounce through our columns, that the women
of Utah have not only been earnest and ener-
getic in hearkening to the counsel of President
Young in Storing Grain, but have also carried
out his instructions in regard lo building Gran-
aries in two of the wards in this city. Presi-
dent Sarah M. Kimball informs us that the
Fifteenth Ward Relief Society have recent-
ly completed a fireproof granary, built of rock
with tin roof, brick floor underlaid with con-
crete, double door, inside nicely finished bin,
that may be subdivided as circumstances may
require. The dimensions of the building are
20 feet square, holding capacity about one
thousand bushels. Messrs. Morris and Evans
builders, Total expenses $374. 44.
	This granary is located on Society lot in the
rear of Society building. "Deseret News"
stated that it was situated in the rear of the
ward co-op store; the ward co-op store rent of
the Society.
	We are also pleased to notice that a Society
Seminary has been opened in the 15th Ward,
under the general superintendence of Mrs. S.
M. Kimball; Miss M. Ferguson principal teach-
er; Miss Florence Burton in charge of juvenile
department, and Miss Lizzie Kimball in charge
of needlework department.
	The Relief Society of the 17th Ward com-
pleted a granary in July last. The building is
16 x 18 feet, outside rustic, inside boarded, six
feet high filled in with concrete. It is capa-
ble of holding about twelve hundred bushels
of wheat, is built on a solid rock foundation,
and cost $271. 12. According to President
Young's counsel, the Society began storing
grain last fall. President Marinda Hyde made
a call upon the Ward for this purpose, which
resulted in the donating and purchasing of
one hundred and ten bushels, which will make
a beginning for the granary. Upon President
Mrs. Hyde making a call for the building of a
granary, the ward liberally responded by a do-
nation of $100. The granary is built and
paid for and we have cash still on hand with
which to continue purchasing grain the pres-
ent season. The Society has taken a deep in-
terest in this matter, and liberally responded
to the calls made upon them. The building
being of concrete from the ground up six feet-
is considered by experienced farmers as proof
against mice, as they cannot bore through that
material.
	Our Society is doing well and feeling well,
working steadily for the general interest of the
Ward.
	MRS. M. A. HYDE, President,
	MRS. G. A. ALDER, Secretary.

[Column 2]

	NOTES ON "THE WOMEN OF MORMONDON."—
The extracts in the EXPONENT from your
"Women of Mormondom" are "gems of the
first water," diamonds of the genuine lustre.
Its bearing upon the woman question should
recommend it to all who are recognizing that
this is woman's age. That woman must,
therefore, lay the corner-stone of the new civ-
ilization. Women have indeed "sown in
tears," they must reap in gladness. Believe
me yours truly in efforts in the good cause,
		V. BARNHURST.
	Secretary National Suffrage Association,
Philadelphia.
	The book, "Women of Mormondom," came
to hand this afternoon, and to say I am pleased
would not half express my feelings. The first
that attracted my attention on opening the
book was the good [---]
I then glanced over the contents, and there
was so much I wanted to look over that I did
not know what to turn to first; and now feel
as if I had had a visit with many dear friends,
and it was over an hour past my usual supper
time when I lay down my book. I would like
many of my friends to have a copy, and shall
use my influence for them to get one; for I am
satisfied they would feel as I do, that it is three
dollars well spent. Yours truly,
						S. M. DELL.
	Beaver, Sept. 12, 1877.
	I have been perusing with rapt interest and
enthusiasm the pages of the "Women of Mor-
mondom," a copy of which, presented by my
mother to Sister Angie Frink, my amiable
hostess, reached here the same time as your
letter.
	I cannot express my admiration in terms to
equal the extent of my appreciation. I think
Edward Tullidge has carved himself a name
by the inspiration of the Almighty, and writ-
ten it upon the hearts of two hundred thousand
people. His pen was surely an inspired instru-
ment, notwithstanding his present estrange-
ment—merely nominally I believe, and but
temporarily I hope—from the church whose
heroines he has so ably defended and immor-
talized. While reading I shed tears every few
moments either of indignation, pity, or of
pleasure—this was more especially the case
when reading the chapter—for I have not pe-
rused it consecutively—giving an account of
my noble grandfather, Heber C. Kimball, tak-
ing leave of his family on leaving to "open the
door of salvation" in Europe, and the Haun's
Mill horror. My patriotism also swelled high
when reading the speeches of the sisters at the
indignation mass meeting on the Cullom Bill,
etc. Sisters Snow, Young, King and East
surely were imbued with the "spirit of '76" I
have never read anything that moved me so
strongly before.
	The anecdotes and incidents were mostly all
new to me. I wish you would congratulate
Mr. Tullidge for me on his triumph, for indeed
it is one. He is a noble writer, and his style
reminds one, or that is me at least, of a cross
between Victor Hugo and Parley P. Pratt, if
you can agree with my idea. Both of these
are great favorites of your humble servant, and
in my own mind I am paying Mr. T. a compli-
ment, which, however, I unhesitatingly de-
clare him to be fully entitled to. Of course
my meagre ability as a judge must be consid-
ered, but I give my opinion for what it is
worth.	O. F. WHITNEY.
	Elyria, Ohio, Aug, 28, 1877.
	STORING GRAIN BY WOMEN.—We desire to
call the attention of the women of Utah who
are interested in the storing of grain, and espe-
cially all the Societies who have made efforts

[Column 3]

in that direction, to this important subject,
now that the grain is cheap, and the season for
securing products of all kinds for safe-keeping
for the winter is at hand. We are all of us as
yet comparatively unacquainted with the de-
tails of the work we have undertaken, and it
seems to us to be the duty of every woman in-
terested in the welfare of Zion, to inform her-
self in regard to this matter, and seek by all
the means within her reach to render assist-
ance; and that such measures should be taken
as will be of mutual benefit in this enterprise,
and will warrant the desired success. We
think it would be advisable for each Society to
make a full, but concise and comprehensive re-
port of all that has been done during the pres-
ent year in the storing of grain, building gran-
eries, storerooms, or bins, and what plans have
been made for future operarions in that direc-
[---] that the great events
that are about to transpire, will as a natural
consequence result in fearful horrors and famine
is one of the most to be dreaded of all. Inas-
much as Relief Societies are for benevolent pur
poses, this seems to be one of the legitimate
labors of that institutions. Women are full of
sympathy; they shrink from the sight of suf-
fering, and are ever generous and prompt in
relieving it whenever it is in their power to
do so; therefore, inasmuch as God has been so
merciful as to reveal through his servant Brig-
ham, our late lamented and beloved leader, the
Word of the Lord concerning the Storing of
Grain, and to give to the sisters this noble mis-
sion, let each and every one seek, by effort and
influence to carry out his counsel.
	What more noble mission was ever given to
women than that of blessing, comforting, and
ministering to the wants of their fellow crea-
tures? This enterprise of being prepared to ad-
minister relief in a time of need, is something
we should all feel is not only of the most im-
portant character, but one of the most honor-
able positions that woman has ever been called
to officiate in. And if we can secure grain by
our own industry and economy, and carefully
and wisely preserve it until future emergencies
require its prudent disbursement, how much
more satisfied we will be with out exertions,"
than if we waste and squander our means and
our time, and throw away opportunities that
would not only bless us and our children, but
be a source of blessing to all within the limit
of our sphere of usefulness. We trust the sis-
ters will follow out the suggestions given and
be ready to report at the end of the year from
the time of the organization.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
	President Central Grain Committee.
S. L. City, Sep. 29, 1877.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		69


A TRIBUTE TO PRESIDENT BRIGHAM
					YOUNG.

	Our President has gone! and there seems to
be a void in nature. The sun's bright rays ap-
pear dim and subdued, for our chief is dead!
Dead to mortal vision. His eloquent tongue is
silent now, that tongue that has so often poured
out blessings to the righteous, and filled the
heart of the sinner with a deadly fear. His
speaking eyes are veiled by lids whose pulse
has stopped their glance so calm and penetrat-
ing, that once sought out the inmost thoughts
of men, and laid bare the secret workings of
their souls, is shrouded by the film of death.
His philanthropic heart is still: it thrills no
more with pity for the suffering, hope for the
erring or love for the obedient. That mighty
brain, which (first inspired by God) was peo-
pled by grand thoughts, is cold, inactive now.
Earth could no longer hold him; the weak


barriers of flesh and blood were powerless to
detain the vigorous captive longer. Ay, death,
thou mayst claim the husk, the shell, but ah!
thou canst not dim that spark of heavenly fire
contained within that vital flame thou canst
not quench forever!
	His mind, no longer trammeled by the clay
of earth, has now more power to blend the
agencies of good, to benefit the loved ones left
behind. His hand lies inert; that hand, whose
index finger always pointed to the right. But
the nervous vigor of the spiritual hand is un-
impaired, and displays increased activity in
succoring the unfortunate ones who have
died without the gospel. 'Tis true that he has
gone, but every faithful heart knows where-
His course here was ever upward, and death
cannot change the tendency of the noble, as-
piring soul. It can but remove the obstacles
which impeded the spirit's grand development.
The head which [---]
[---] down by the
brutal enmity and persecution of ungodly men,
and which ever stood erect with conscious up-
rightness and integrity, is there surrounded by
a halo of glory, whose brightness can never
more be diminished. The intolerance of spe-
lial legislation, prejudiced and evil-minded
judges, and packed juries can no more oppress
his susceptible heart.
	The poignancy of mortal anguish has culmi-
nated in his death. And thou alone, O Lord,
hast power to soothe the acuteness of our grief,
and mitigate the pangs of our distress. We
invoke thy mercy, Omnipotent God, in this
our general bereavement, and pray Thee to
enable us to emulate those virtues which he
possessed in such an eminent degree: and may
the sage counsels with which he so often as-
sailed our stubbornness, be, by his death, deep-
ly engraven on our hearts, that neither time
nor temptation may obliterate them any more
forever; and may the unwavering constancy
and devotedness of his whole life seal upon ou
memories his incomparable worth, and upon
our convictions a certainty of future glory, as a
reward for present faithfulness. We implore
Thee, merciful Father, to shed the enriching
dews of Thy divine meekness upon our way-
ward and intractable hearts, that we may al-
ways, during our lives, and at last, by our
peaceful death, testify of the sublime and per-
fect satisfaction gained in Thy service. And
may our words and works, like those of Thy
servant—and our departed brother, be a psalm
of richest harmony—a monument of everlast-
ing greatness.
	I. H. M.
Morgan City, Sept 4, 1877.


70		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
				REMARKS
OF ELDER ERASTUS SNOW AT THE
	FUNERAL OF PRES'T. BRIGHAM
	YOUNG.

	I parted with President Brigham Young
and a few brethren who were with him, in
Manti, Sanpete County, in July last; since
which time I have been engaged attending
visiting and organizing the southern set-
tlements; and was at the time of his death,
on a visit to our settlements in south-east-
ern Nevada. Through the blessings of God
I have been enabled to return, in company
with Elder Woodruff who has just address-
ed us, in time to be present on this memor-
able occasion.
	I shall say it is a pleasure to meet with
the Saints of God on this occasion! It
might seem paradoxical to use such an ex-
pression, but nevertheless it is true. The
pleasure is not in parting with our honored,
tried and beloved President; but it is in

[Column 2]
meeting with this vast body of Latter-day
Saints and the thousands of Elders of Is-
rael that are assembled on this occasion,
who have come together to testify to one
another, to the world of mankind, and to
the heavens, the love, the esteem. the con-
fidence and the enduring ties which bind
him to us. We meet not merely to condole
with the beloved family and relatives of
the deceased; but we meet to condole with
each other, and to publicly testify of the
faith we have in Christ Jesus and in the
work that we and our President are engag-
ed in, in which he led the van, directing 
our energies and as the mouthpiece of God
imparting words of wisdom, counsel and
guidance unto this people.
	I first became acquainted with Brother
Brigham in the month of July, 1835. It
has been my high privilege to be associat-
ed with him in the labors of the gospel
from that time up to the present, to share
the benefits of his counsels and labors and
to co-operate with him in this great work
in which he has been engaged. It would
be but a small thing to add my testimony,
but which I know would be the testimony
of thousands before me, as well as thou-
sands who are not with us to-day, more es-
pecially of those who have been longest
and most intimately acquainted with him;
a testimony we are all able to bear, namely,
the never-failing devotion of his heart to
the building up of the kingdom of God, to
the honoring of the holy priesthood he re-
ceived, and to the carrying out of the coun-
sels of the Lord and all things revealed
through the Prophet Josoph, as well as all
things which manifested themselves to him
from day to day, pointing to the welfare of
Israel; all the day long he has borne the bur-
dens and responsibilities placed upon him,
which he has honored and magnified to
the end. I believe that all Israel will agree
with Elder Woodruff in the expression,
that if the anxiety and prayers of the
Saints could have preserved him longer in
our midst, he would not have passed away.
But from the time I heard of his sickness,
which was less than twenty-four hours
before his death, I was not able to gather
any testimony in my earnest prayers and
supplications that he would tarry with us;
but on the other hand, a deep seated feel-
ing rested upon me that the Lord was
about to call him behind the vail. And
when the news of his death reached me,
the first and most prominent feeling of my
heart was "Thank God that he has had the
privilege of spending his last moments in
quiet and peace, and in the midst of his
friends, and has gone beyond the reach of
his enemies, who now have no power to an-
noy and persecute him." We are permit-
ted to mourn his loss in peace and quiet.
Peace be upon Israel! Peace be upon his
beloved family! Peace be upon all his be-
loved  brethren and laborers in Zion and
throughout the world. Peace be upon the
multitudes of Israel who this day assemble
throughout the land to testify their faith,
their respect and their love for him, the
congregations of Saints who are at this
hour in every part of the land in the act of
worshipping, and mingling their feelings,
their voices and testimony with ours for
the same common purpose.!
	President Brigham Young needs no mon-
ument to perpetuate his name and character
more than that which he himself by his
own works and virtues has reared in the
hearts of his people. And his testimony
is such as will be in force to all the world,
and his fame in connection with that of the
Prophet Joseph Smith is known among all

[Column 3]
nations, kindreds, tongues and people.
This latter-day work is not the work of a
few brief years in mortality; our priesthood
is everlasting, "without beginning of days
or end of years," the labors of which reach
forward through time and into eternity and
continue forever. Truly did the Lord
speak to John the Revelator when banished
for the Gospel's sake to the Isle of Patmos,
"Blessed are the dead which die in the
Lord, from henceforth: Yea, saith the Spirit
that they may rest from their labors; and
their works do follow them." From the labors
of the flesh do they rest, but their works
continue. Rest is a change, but not a ces-
sation from labor. And the works of every
faithful Elder in Israel after finishing his
labors in the flesh, will go forward into the
future ages of eternity. Brother Brigham
having done a great, a glorious work in
the flesh, now joins his labors with those
of the spirit world and is welcomed back
again from this mission of mortality.
receives the joyous welcome of the Father
and the Son and the greetings of the apos-
tles and prophets, of Joseph and his breth-
ren who have gone before him, all wel-
coming him back again from earth, he
joins with them in the more extensive la-
bors of the Priesthood, the redemption of
the dead and their preparation for the res-
urrection day.
	It is a great joy and comfort to know
that he had the privilege of living to com-
plete the Temple and to see it dedicated,
and that he superintended the setting in or-
der of the priesthood and the ordinances
for the redemption of the dead, as well as
for the exaltation of the living. It was
one of the greatest objects of his life, some-
thing that he greatly desired to see done
before he should pass away. I have often
reflected upon the prayer that I used to
hear offered up by Brother George A.
Smith during his last winter which he
spent with President Young in St. George.
As Trustee-in-Trust he directed the labors
of building the Temple. His frequent
prayer was in substance, that the Lord
would spare President Young to see the
completion of that temple and to set in or-
der the Priesthood therein. While I often
heard him make this prayer, I do not re-
member having heard him make the same
request in his own behalf. Prest. George
A. Smith passed away without this privi-
lege, but his prayer was answered on the
head of his brother Brigham, and all the
Elders of Israel greatly rejoice because he
obtained this privilege, for now all things
pertaining to the ordinances and keys of 
the priesthood in all their minutiae were
set in order according to the revelations of
God. And it will be remembered that af-
ter his return from St. George last spring
on his first greeting his brethren from this
stand some of the most prominent senti-
ments expressed by him, when referring
to his work during the winter, was that he
felt satisfied with his labors; to which I be-
lieve all Israel so far as they were acquaint-
ed with the nature of and could appreciate
those labors, could say Amen. He was
moved upon to direct his brethren, the
Apostles to go to and organize the Stakes
of Zion throughout the Territory, in which
he himself took a prominent part, accord-
ing to the strength of body he possessed.
And the kind, fatherly spirit that charac-
terized his every act during this period of
his life seemed to shine brighter and exert
even a more peaceful influence than at any
time of his life before. His public address-
es, his private utterances, his counsels and
labors during the past Summer, have all
seemed to bespeak that the hour was


drawing near, the time was close at hand
when he should depart. I have watched
him during the entire season that I was
with him, and also during his late labors
in the South in the Temple and from that
time to this 1 have carefully observed
every word that flowed from his lips both
in public and private, everything tending
to make this profound impression upon my
feelings that he was soon to pass behind
the vail; and on receiving word of his last
sickness, the impression forced itself upon
me, he is to depart. I can therefore say,
we mourn not as the world mourn. Was
he our leader? Yes, in one sense, and that
only as we are in the habit of using that
term. For thirty-three years, since the
death of the Prophet Joseph, he has been
our earthly head; and yet he was not our
leader, except in the earthly sense; for the
Lord wrought in him and through him and
by him as our earthly leader.
	And may God grant in his merciful kind-
ness that he will not hide his face from us,
but ever continue to lead us, as a people, to
glory and victory, triumphing over evil,
subduing our passions and repenting fully
of all our sins, our selfishness and pride,
our vanity and folly; and uniting our hearts
as a band of brethren and sisters for the
carrying out of the counsels of the Lord
which we have so often received through
him; and imitate his noble example, and
practise those noble virtues in our lives.
And teach them to our children and child-
ren's children and spread them abroad 
throughout the world, devoting our lives
and energies for the salvation and redemp-
tion of the living and the dead, until we
too shall go hence and meet with Brother
Brigham in the spirit world, to be wel-
comed back from this our earthly mission,
receiving that welcome plaudit, "Well
done thou faithful servant enter into the
joy of thy Lord;" and then when it shall
please God our Father to cause the trump
to sound for the resurrection; that we may
greet each other again with the Lord Jesus
Christ, and the apostles and saints that
have gone before; which we ask in the
name of Jesus Christ. Amen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		71


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	On the evening of September 4th, 1877,
the Retrenchment Association of the Twen-
tieth Ward celebrated its second anniver-
sary, by holding a meeting to which all the
ward was invited. A number of the pa-
rents of the young ladies availed themselves
of the opportunity, and were present. The
exercises of the young ladies, after prayer,
singing, and reading of minutes and yearly
report, consisted of a select reading, "The
Righteous never Forsaken," by Miss Mary
A. Sansom; an original song suitable for
the occasion, composed by Mrs. Lula Greene
Richards, was very sweetly sung by Misses
Alice and Lizzie Sansom; an essay on
"Friendship" by Miss Mary Culmer; a reci-
tation, "Beautiful Snow," finely rendered
by Miss Thora Tweede; and an essay on
"Retrenchment" by Miss Hulda E. Wilcox.
Our Bishop, Brother John Sharp, was not
present on account of other business, but
we were favored with the presence of one
of his counselors, Brother W. [-]. Dunbar;
also Brother C. W. Stayner and Sisters E.
R. Snow, Z. D. Young, B. W. Smith and
M. R. Thompson were present as visitors,
and all made cheering, instructive and
highly appropriate remarks. The meeting
was a gratifying one in all respects, and
much credit was offered both to officers and

[Column 2]
members of the Association by the breth-
ren and sisters who spoke.
	MRS. SARAH HOWARD, President,
	MRS. ELIZABETH MATTHEWS, Sec'y.

		BLOOMINGTON, IDAHO, Sept. 13.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought I would like to send a short re-
port of the doings of our Relief Society. I
think we are progressing a little; we num-
ber fifty-nine members, and I think they
are all trying to do the best they can. We
have not done much yet about storing grain,
although the young ladies of the Retrench-
ment Society have been gleaning several
bushels of wheat. Our President is mak-
ing an effort to get a piece of homemade
cloth wove with the yarn the sisters have
donated, as the sisters wish to do something
to help build the Logan Temple, where we
hope to receive our endowments and bless-
ings; We have been favored with a visit
from Mrs. M. I. Horne and Mrs. Phebe
Woodruff from Salt Lake City, and Mrs.
Nora Spencer from Paris, and rejoiced in
their excellent teachings; also from Bishop
W. Holmes and Brothers James H. Hart,
P. Greenholch and J. Haddock. We feel
to mourn the loss of our beloved President
and Prophet, Brigham Young, and pray
that this event may be sanctified both to
his bereaved family and also to the Church,
that the purposes of God may be fulfilled,
and His work spread over the earth.
	At our last Annual Meeting, which was
held June 1st, our accounts showed that in
the past two years there had been collected
in the Society $200. 42; disbursed to the
poor $100. 21; five shares in Co-op stores
$50; on hand 300 lbs flour, 3 quilts, 30 skeins
yarn.
	Since our last report two of our sisters
have been called from us by death. Mrs.
Emily Payne, born November 5, 1851, died
December 28, 1876, leaving a baby boy but
a few days old, also three other children, a
husband and other relatives and friends to
mourn her loss. She was a faithful Latter-
day Saint, respected and beloved by all
who knew her.
	Mrs. Annie Nelson died May 9, 1877, in
her 37th year, leaving an infant seven
days old; also seven other children, a hus-
band and other relatives who sincerely
mourn for her. She was the former secre-
tary of the Bloomington Relief Society.
She attended most ably to the fulfillment
of her duties as Secretary, wife, mother
and friend; was a true Latter-day Saint
and was beloved for her numerous good
qualities.
	MRS. S. GREENHOLCH, President,
	ELIZABETH LONG,	} Secretaries.
	JOSEPHINE NELSON,	}

				PARADISE. CACHE Co.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We here send a short account of our An-
nual Meeting held June 7th. Our accounts
being read showed that we had disbursed
to the poor $6. 23; to the building of a
meeting-house, $15. 00; and to the Logan
factory $25. 00, leaving us an amount on
hand of $12. 00. Our Bishop Orson Smith
and his Counselors H. C. Jackson and H.
A. Shaw gave much good instruction con-
cerning our duties as members and teachers
of the Relief Society, and as mothers in
Israel, and encouraged the sisters in their
endeavors to do all the good possible for
them to do. It is our ambition to be wor-
thy of being numbered with our sister so-

[Column 3]
cieties in the great work of improvement
and restoration of all things.
	Knowing the encouragement your paper
gives the women of Utah, and the good it
does, we pray for its extended circulation
and influence, and remain your sisters in
the Gospel,
		L. B. REMINGTON, President,
		SINAH BISHOP, Secretary.

	SOUTH COTTONWOOD Aug. 29th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our president and all interested in our
Relief Society are feeling well and alive to
their duties. We are obeying the counsels
of President Young as near as possible.
We have nearly two hundred bushels of
wheat on hand, and expect to have much
more; we hope to get the brethren to assist
us in building a bin. We have always been
willing to respond to the calls of those
placed over us. The Society has donated
liberally to the St. George Temple and to
the Temple in S. L. City, as well as assist-
ing the brethren in their missions, besides
attending to the wants of the poor and
needy in the ward. There seems to be a
spirit of unity among the sisters of this
place, and a desire tn be pushing ahead.
The Counselors, Mrs. Lucy Bullock, and
Mrs. Mary Rawlens with a large number of
the teachers of the society gave our Presi-
dent Mrs. Janette Young, a very pleasant
surprise last Saturday, it being her fifty-
seventh birthday. The sisters united to-
gether and gave her a nice present. They
took with them quantities of good things
for picnic both for dinner and supper.
Bishop Rawlens joined the company at sup-
per time. We found our President in very
poor health, but she felt considerably bet-
ter when we arived. All present seemed
to enjoy themselves very much, and a good
spirit prevailed in our midst.
		Yours in the Gospel
			F. E. TURNER, Ass't.
							Sec'y.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

 Cleansing and Disinfecting.--There seems much
reason to fear that too little attention has been be-
stowed on the important question, "What becomes
of germs of disease after a cleansing process?"
Filth is washed away, but where? If water hold-
ing the poison in suspension is thrown into ordi-
nary drains, it will become the agent for distribut-
ing disease. This is a very grave consideration.
Disinfecting, properly so called, is not a precau-
tion properly carried out. It is generally deemed
sufficient to purify the particular articles supposed
to be foul, without regard to what the destination
of the germs removed may be. It is even doubt-
ful whether this practical point receives a due
share of thought in public institutions. Certainly
there is room for improvement in the domestic and
laundry methods of "purification." The only ef-
fectual method of arresting the spread of infection
is one which destroys the vitality of the germ
where it is found. We shall never be safe until
a process of this nature forms part of the usual
proceeding of cleansing articles of clothing or bed-
ding in use in private families and at hospitals.
To strike at the root of the danger the means need-
ful for the extinction of vitality in morbific or-
ganisms must be invariably employed. Lancet


MISS Boss' lecture on "Our Girls," will, it
is said, be one of the most attractive and
popular this season.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
MISS MIDDLE Morgan is the stock report-
er of the New York Times.

 GAIL HAMILTON has written a series of 
letters on the civil service reform.

 BELOCCA, THE Russian prima donna, has
given $5,000 for the relief of the sick and
wounded Russian soldiers.

 THE UNIVERSITY of Pennsylvania has
decided to open its doors to women stu-
dents. This will be another great move in
doing justice to women in educational ad-
vantages.  Young women of capabilities
should improve this opportunlty of stand-
ing side by side in art and science with 
men.

 SOME PROMINENT leading women in 
Chicago, have published a few facts bear-
ing upon the subject of woman’s life mis-
sion which contain some very potent truths.
It would be well for all women everywhere,
to read them, but we have not now space
for many of them.  The call is made pre-
paratory to holding a State Woman's Con-
gress which will commence its session Oct.
4, and continue two days with three ses-
sions daily.  The meetings will be held in
Clark Street Methodist Church, Chicago.
Papers will be read upon the different sub- 
jects, written purposely for the occasion.
Each paper will be limited to twenty min-
utes, and are to be submitted to a commit- 
tee on papers and topics, for approval.
Those who write are requested to send their
papers by the 1st of October, to Mrs. Oliver
Willard Evanston, Chairman, or Dr. Sarah.
H. Stevenson, Secretary; No. 125 State St
Chicago.
 THE LATE Minister of France whose loss
the French are now mourning was a most
extraordinary man.  The Republican party
can but regret his death just at this partlcu-
lar time, when it seems apparent from the
movements of Mac Mahon and his associates
that some sudden and sinister stroke of
policy is meditated.  With the aid of Thiers
and Gnmbetta they might have been out-
witted.  The last speech of M. Thiers in
public was at St. Germain, when he express-
ed himself clearly in this emphatic declar-
ation "the Republic is the only form of
Government for France," and that he had
no doubt of its triumph.  Louis Adolph
Thiers was born April 16, 1797, at Mar-
sailles. He died Sept. 3, 1877 at St. Ger-
main.  His career from his boyhood marks
him as a great man. At twenty-six years
of age he published his first volume "His-
tory of the French Revolution.” After the
revolution of 1830 he held various official
posts, and was finally elected deputy of 
Aix, and soon distinguished himself by
his financial ability and oratory.  The
French people whenever he appeared among
them, testified their enthusiasm and love
in the strongest manner.  They proudly
designated him as the "Old-man-eloquent."


MRS. Marcia E. D. Wood will lecture on
"American Homes," the coming season.


[Column 1]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

[Column 2]
	The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

	[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

		NEW FALL STOOK.

	F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.
	SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.

Call at the Constitution Building, Salt Lake Cirt, and ex-
amine the large stock of goods just recieved from the
Mill, consisting of Fine White and Colored Yarns, Flan-
nels, Linseys, Etc.
				JOHN C. CUTLER,
									AGENT.
		ROWE'S
			CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
	Big Boot, Main Street.

	No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

VISITORS TO CONFERENCE
	Amply Repaid by Visiting
TEASDEL,
			FOR
	FAMILY SUPPLIES
			FOR
FALL AND WINTER WEAR.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

	NOTICE TO THE LADIES.
THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
	DRY GOODS,
					IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
	Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

[Column 3]
	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
					SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
				LADIES' JACKETS,
					STOCKINGS, YARNS,
						SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
							LATEST STYLES OF
								FANCY WORSTED TIES,
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of Jamaica Ginger
HOME-MADE WOOLEN BATTING,
	NEW ZEALAND FLAX SEED.

DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
     Vol. 6.                            SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1877.				No. 10.


For the EXPONENT.
ON THE DEATH OF PRESIDENT
BRIGHAM YOUNG.
How can we express our sorrow for the loss that we sus-
tain?
Brigham Young our seer and prophet--long has been his
peaceful reign--
He has loved the people ever--they have loved him in re-
turn:
Though he's gone to realms of glory, still our loss we long
will mourn.
He was mighty as a leader, he for right was ever strong--
Taught us naught but truth eternal, and he never led us
wrong;
Now the Saints of Latter-days, who have loved his coun-
sels given. 
Mourn his loss, and yet rejoice that he meets his friends
in heaven.
Joseph Smith has gladly met him, Hyrum, too, shares in
the joy;
Heber, George A., Jedediah welcome him where none
annoy:
Willard Richards, David Patten, and the Saints who've
passed away,
Welcome him, with love and gladness, where it is eternal
day.
He is free from all annoyance, free from those that sought
his death;
Now no evil can befall him--only we are sore bereft:
He is happy with companions who had only gone before;
None can harm him, or molest him--he is free forever-
more.
EMILY B. SPENCER.
St. George, Aug., 1877.


[FOR the EXPONENT.
A WOMAN'S LOVE.

BY MAY MAPLE.

No star in yonder sky that shines,
 Can light like woman's eye impart;
The earth holds not in all its mines,
 The gem so rich as woman's heart.

Her voice is like rich music sweet,
Poured out from e'en a harp alone;
Like that, when storms most loudly beat,
It yields a clearer, richer tone.

And woman's loves a holy light,
 That brighter, brighter beams for aye,
Years cannot dim its radiance bright,
 Nor ever falsehood quench its ray.

But like the star of Bethlehem
 Of old, to Israel's shepherds giv'n,
It marshals with its steady name,
 The erring soul of man to heav'n.


REMINESCENSES.

 Incidents of my girlhood days, also of
later years rush o’er my memory to-day.
The innocent school-girl romp, the merry
Christmas, the happy New Year, the gay
party, and above all the joyous sleighride,
snugly wrapped in warm robes and furs,
cosily seated by the side of a respected
schoolmate, or perchance, one dearer, with
other seats similarly occupied. The clatter
of the horses hoofs sounding on the frozen
night air. The earth draped in robes of
dazzling whiteness, glittering and spark-
ling in the silvery moonbeans. While the
bright stars looked approvingly down as we
dashed over the frozen snow, halting ever
and anon, at some wayside inn to partake
of refreshments, or warm our tingling ears.
Those were happy, fleeting days spent with
the dear friends of my youth. But where
now are the friends, “echo answers where?”

	Where are the comrades of my youth
		Whose voices were so gay,
	Whose hearts were pure and motives good,
		In childhood's happy day?


All who survive, tread the thorny path
of life in different directions, but all I think
are aiming to attain the high prize which
is in Christ Jesus. Ere the springtime of
my life had passed, there came a joyous,
solemn day, that on which I entered upon
the duties of wifehood. And ere long,
came sweet flowers, fresh from heaven to
cheer our hearts and firesides. As their
numbers increased, it was my joy to rear
them in the path of virtue and truth. And
when they in time have started on the
road that have been traveled for untold
ages, how thankful I have felt that I have
been counted worthy to be instrumental in
bringing forth the souls of men to help
build up the kingdom of God upon the
earth.
	Though the springtime and summer of
my life have passed, and the hand of time
is sprinkling my hair plentifully with sil-
ver, and chilly autumn is fast approaching;
though the vivacity and buoyancy of my
youth have gone, yet the sunshine has not
gone out of my heart. A calmer, holier
joy has settled down upon my life. Al-
though sorrows have and yet may come, I
trust in the future as in the past, to Divine
assistance, to lead us safely through.
And when this earthly pilgrimage is ended,
The cares, and sorrows, hopes and fears of life are oe'r.
May childhood's joys and earthly ties be blended,
With glory, joy, and life eternal, on the other shore.
								ANONYMOUS.


CORRESPONDENCE.

EXTRACTS FROM A PRIVATE LETTER.

	SUNSET, ARIZONA Sept. 13th, 1877.
	I received your very kind letter, and
thank you for the good sentiments expressed
therein.  It does me good to known that
you feel interested in our mission; we some-
times are a little lonesome, there being so
few of us, but the brethren and sisters of
our camp are united, and when we consider
that we are here to try to do the will of
God and carry out the counsel of President
Young (in our weakness), it inspires us
with hope that our Heavenly Father will
give us strength to overcome out imperfec-
tions and learn to discharge our duties
faithfully in the United Order.
	I am happy to hear you are engaged in
the Ladies' Store; I think it will encourage
others to try to follow your example, and 
heartily wish you success in the enterprise.
I am aware it must be quite a tax upon
your physical strength.
	I have been teaching school a short time
for the same kind of remuneration.
	The labors of the brethren here have
been much blessed this season; they have
raised some good wheat- enough for bread
and seed; the corn and sugar cane look
splendid.  We have also some good vege-
tables of almost all kinds, which we can
appreciate after the failure of last year.
We have one corral for our cows, one field,
one stock-yard, and on treasury.
	We are so far from Utah that we get but
little news.
	May God bless, comfort and strengthen
you in all your labors, is the prayer of
	Your sister in the Gospel of peace,
							A. W.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	ANNIE BESANT, the English radical, is
young and handsome, and a natural orator.
Her lectures to working people are densely
crowded, and it is said we have no woman
in America equal to her in force, genius and
culture combined.—Philadelphia Sunday
Press.

	MISS EMILY Faithful, we are told, has
just begun the publication of a new weekly
journal, called the West London "Express."
She is its editor, and has many well-known
assistants in the literary, scientific and dra-
matic departments. It is sold for the small
price of a penny. It is said to be an inde-
pendent family newspaper, not represent-
ing, especially, the interests of the Woman
Suffrage party.—Ex.

	MRS. ISABELLA B. Hooker, in her call for
the eighth annual meeting of the Connecti-
cut Woman Suffrage Association, specifies
among subjects for discussion the Labor
question, to occupy the morning session.
We heartily approve of this arrangement.
The labor question has arrived at such gi-
gantic proportions that it presses itself upon
the attention of all, and next to that of
woman suffrage is the greatest question of
the day, and the two are destined yet to
color the political atmosphere until an equi-
librium of forces is brought about, which
shall equably adjust the demands of both.
—Ballot Box.

	CONVENTIONS ARE being held by women
in the cause of Universal Suffrage in many
of the states and territories, to arouse an
interest in the cause, and urge upon wo-
men everywhere the necessity of the ballot.
The plan now is to present as many names
to Congress during the next session as pos-
sible, that they may fully realize the nec-
essity of making an amendment to the
Constitution, that will prohibit the several
states from disfranchising women.

Constitution of the National Woman Suffrage
				Association.

	ARTICLE 1.—This organization shall be
called the National Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation.
	ARTICLE 2.—The object of this Associa-
tion shall be to secure NATIONAL protection
for women citizens in the exercise of their
right to vote.
	ARTICLE 3.—All citizens of the United
States subscribing to this Constitution, and
contributing not less than one dollar annu-
ally, shall be considered members of the
Association, with the right to participate in
its deliberations.
	ARTICLE 4.—The officers of this Asso-
ciation shall be a President, a Vice Presi-
dent from each of the States and Territories,
Corresponding and Recording Secretaries, a
Treasurer, an Executive Committee of not
less than five, and an Advisory Committee
consisting of one person from each State
and Territory.
	ARTICLE 5.—All Woman Suffrage Socie-
ties throughout the country shall be wel-
comed as auxiliaries; and their accredited
officers or duly appointed representatives
shall be recognized as members of the Na-
tional Association.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Sept. 29, was one of great inter-
est to all who have the welfare of Zion at
heart. The meeting was presided over by
Counselor Zina D. Young.  The minutes
from the various wards were interesting,
and plainly showed that the young ladies
are making good use of their opportunities
for improvement.  Mrs. Zina D. Young and
Miss E. R. Snow made some very appro-
priate remarks on home industries and the
practical work of the societies.  President
John Taylor addressed the sisters in a most
edifying and encouraging manner, gave
some items of his acquaintance with the
Relief Society in Nauvoo, stated that he
was present at its organization by Joseph
Smith the prophet.  Said he had watched
with interest the labors of the sisters in the
good cause, and desired their prosperity in
the benevolent work they were doing.
Prayed the Lord to bless and aid them in
all their enterprises.  Said many things
calculated to comfort and build them np.
	Elder Wilford Woodruff gave the sisters
similar counsel, and exhorted them to store
up wheat and raise silk, and persevere in
the noble work they were doing, for he felt
they were co-workers with the brethren in
helping to establish the kingdom of God.
He gave them great encouragement, and
blessed them and asked God to bless them,
&c.
	Counselor D. H. Wells gave much good
advice and many wise suggestions in regard
to the efforts that were being made by the
sisters to benefit each other and the
young people, that they might fill up their
days in usefulness, with honor to them-
selves and the church and kingdom of God.
	Elder Angus M. Cannon made a few clos-
ing remarks very applicable to the time
and place, and very politely asked the sis-
ters to use their influence practically by
encouraging their hnsbands, fathers and
brothers to come forward and assist in put-
ting up the New Tabernacle. Bishop
Thomas Taylor dismissed with prayer. The
meeting was one which left a good impres-
sion, and carried to the hearts of the sisters
a heavenly influence.  The Spirit of God
was there, bearing witness to all, both
speakers and hearers.

 Speceial Meeting of the Young Ladies’
Mutual Improvement Association of the
First Ward, held in the schoolhouse Sept.
26th, 1877. Usual opening exercises.
Minutes read and accepted.
	By invitation of President Mrs. Sarah
Graham, Mrs. Zina D. Young then made
Some remarks, of which the following is
only a synopis: “We have heard some ex-
cellent sermons from the young ladies in
the minutes, which causes our hearts to re-
joice, particularly as they come from our
youth. We have here the elements of truth
and righteousness, to follow in the track of
our leaders and carry on the work that they
have begun.  And they will carry it on
with greater rapidity than we have done,
for they have not the traditions to contend
with that we had.  When I look on the
faces of my brethren and sisters since the
death of President Young, I think, How
do we feel? I believe we feel ten times
stronger than we did before he died. I
have heard him say “Joseph Smith’s testi-
mony had far greater effect after his death
than it ever had before, and so will mine;”
and I thought to myself, Oh, will I live to
see him die?  Sisters, it is for us to be
wide awake to our duties.  The kingdom
will roll on, and we have nothing to fear
but our own imperfections.  I do not wish
to take up more time, for there are many
here whom we would like to hear from, but
I pray God to bless you, and especially the
youth. May God bless yon and eudow you
with energy and determination to act for
yourselves in regard to dressing plainly and
comfortably. May you have many of these
re-unions, and be comforted and strength-
ened is my prayer in the name of Jesus."
	Synopsis of Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith’s
remarks: "I feel happy to meet with the
sisters in this ward, and I feel very much
pleased to think that the young ladies are
stepping forward, learning the principles of
the gospel, reading and studying that they
may become wise and great.  I know that
this is the kingdom of God.  We should
not be ashamed of our religion, but live it
so that we will be prepared when we are
called to go hence.  I exhort you to attend
your meetings and Sabbath schools, and
never neglect your prayers.”
	Mrs. E. B. Wells: “I love my religion
better than anything else on the earth, and
I desire to do my duty and walk by the
Spirit of God at all times.  I have had some
idea of the public work of women since
my childhood, and I sometimes feel that I
cannot do half enough.  Some think we
have not done much in our associations; but
in looking back I think we have accom-
plished considerable.  The sectarian world
and their ministers teach people how to die;
but we want to learn how to live, that we
may be prepared to dwell with angels and
holy beings; and if we do not live lives of
purity, we will not receive the reward that
we otherwise would.  This Latter-day work
in time will devolve upon the young, and
if they continue in these associations, they
will be more competent to assist than
we were.” Mrs. Wells then bore a strong tes-
timony upon plural marriage. “I believe as
far as my knowledge of these associations
extends, that the young ladies are doing
very well; that they are learning the prin-
ciples of the gospel, learning to preserve
their health, how to become good mothers,
and how to take care of their children; and
the object of these associations is to develop
the young ladies, spiritually, temporally,
physically and morally." Mrs. Wells also
made other excellent remarks on the Wo-
MAN'S EXPONENT, and Church Libraries,
and expressed a very great interest in the
young.
	Miss E. R. Snow; “I always feel happy to
meet with my sisters; today I feel a pecu-
liar sweetness and heavenly influence. What
we have heard is calculated to inspire us to
action. The world has a great deal of teach-
ing and preaching done, but we want to
act, for by our acts we will be judged.  It
has been suggested here that we have a
great deal to do, and those who are alive to
their religion know that there is much to
do. The sisters have weighty duties placed
upon them, and duties that cannot be ac-
complished singly, but require a unity of
heart and feeling.  We must be united as
Jesus and his disciples were, and must get
the Holy Ghost, the Comforter that Jesus
spoke of, to help us.  Jesus said, “When I
go away I will send the Comforter, to teach
you what to do and how to act."  The mis-
sion that has been placed upon the sisters
requires a constant effort, and it requires
us to meet often together. “And they
that feared the Lord met often together
and they spoke one to another of the good
ness of God; and they shall be mine when
I number up my jewels, saith the Lord."
When President Young first called upon
us to organize the young girls, many good
girls did not know that the gospel was true;
now they meet together and get the Spirit
of God, and we have heard some of the
effects, today, in the minutes.  Our duties
are numerous.  For instance, there is the
silk business; President Young has spent
thousands of dollars in trying to lead out
the people in that industry, and now he has
placed the mission on the sisters.  The first
year that he set foot on this soil he saw
that there was silk in the elements, and I
want to inspire the young sisters with the
importance of this mission.  We are also
storing up grain for a day of famine. A
famine is certainly coming and we are called
upon to prepare for it.  Pres. Young said
as soon as he gave the mission to the sis-
ters, that they took hold of it; this is a
compliment to us, and don’t you think he
will bear that testimony in the courts above?
Yes, he will.  There is another item that I
wish to mention.  At a meeting held in
the Council House the expressed wishes of
Pres. Young were to change the name of
these associations from Retrenchment As-
sociations to Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions, and I would be pleased if you would
take a vote here on that, to show your will-
ingness to carry out the instructions of Pres.
Young.”
	It was then unanimously carried that the
name of our Association be changed from
Young ladies’ Retrenchment Association to
Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation.
			(To be continued.)


EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Believing your readers,have an interest
in the Belief Society of Peoa, Summit Co.,
and having recently returned from that lo-
cality, I submit the following:
	The brethren have enclosed about three
hundred acres, which they planted in
White Touse wheat, that looked beauti-
ful when matured, standing from four to
five feet high; of this the Belief Society
has 9ix acres. The brethren donated the
raising and harvesting of this wheat to
the Society. While, the brethren were at
work the Society furnished supplies for
subsistence, and all had an enjoyable time.
The general health of the people is good.
Your paper is a welcome visitor. Wishing
it perfect success.
		I remain yours;
					M. A. Rockwood.
	S. L. City Sep. 25, 1877.

		ST. CHARLES Sept. 10th 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	On the 29th Aug. we received a visit
from our much beloved sisters Mary I.
Horne and Phebe Woodruff, from whom
we received much valuable instruction
which if carried out in our lives will be of
great benefit to us. On the following
morning we received the sad news of our
beloved President's death which cast a
gloom over the entire settlement, yet we
realize that our loss is his gain, and feel to
say "Thy will be done Father and not ours."
Help us Father to so live that we will be
worthy of his society in the world to come
	With best wishes for yourself and your
valuable paper, I remain, 
	Your sister in the Gospel,
				ORISSA A. ALLRED.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		75


MISMATED.

				BY LUNA S. PECK.

A hawk once courted a little white dove,
With the softest of wings and a voice full of love,
And the hawk—O yes, as other hawks go—
Was a well-enough hawk, for aught that I know.
			But she was a dove,
			And her bright young life
			Had been nurtured in love,
			Away from all strife.

Well, she married the hawk; the groom was delighted,
A feast was prepared, and the friends all invited.
(Does any one think that my story's not true?
He is certainly wrong; the facts are not new.)
			Then he flew to his nest,
			With the dove at his side,
			And soon all the rest.
			Took a squint at the bride:

A hawk for his father, a hawk for his mother,
A hawk for his sister, and one for his brother.
And uncles and aunts there were by the dozens,
And oh, such a number of hawks for his cousins.
			They were greedy and rough,
			A turbulent crew,
			Always ready enough
			To be quarrelsome, too.

To the dove all was strange, but n[-]ver a word
In resentment she gave to the wrangling she heard;
If a thought of her peaceful, far-away nest,
Ever haunted her dreams, or throbbed in her breast,
			No bird ever knew;
			Each hour of her life
			Kind, gentle and true
			Was the hawk's dove-wife.

But the delicate nature too sorely was tried;
With no visible sickness the dove drooped and died;
Then loud was their grief, and the wish all expressed
To call the learned birds and hold an inquest.
			So all the birds came,
			But each shook his head;
			No disease could he name
			Why the dove should lie dead:

'Till wise old owl, with a knowing look,
Stated this: "The case is as clear as a book;
No disease do I find, or accident's shock;
the cause of her death was—too much hawk!
Hawk for her father, and hawk for her mother,
Hawk for her sister and hawk for her brother,
Was more than the delicate bird could bear:
She hath winged her way to a realm more fair!
			She was nurtured a dove;
			Too hard the hawk's life;
			Void of kindness and love—
			Full of harshness and strife,"

And when he had told them, the other birds knew
That this was the cause, and the verdict was true!
—The "Watchman."


[Column 1]
	A YOUNG MISSIONARY TO HIS
				MOTHER.

	MENTOR PLAINS, LAKE Co., OHIO,
						Sept. 28, 1887.
	*	*	*	Once more I was rejoiced
to hear from home—a place from which I
have been absent nearly eleven months.
How fast the time has sped away. Here
we are again on the threshold of hoary
winter when it seems as if we had just
emerged from it. And such, too, is life;
we are frosted with age ere childhood's
flowers have barely withered, and ere we
lose sight of the cradle we are approaching
the grave. Short indeed is life. Should
we not indeed put it to its best use? How
illy can we afford to squander any of the
golden moments now in our possession and
now in oblivion—gone, gone forever.
	And is not the service of our Father in
heaven the best possible use to which our
time, talents, and possessions can be applied?
Yea, verily. He alone can reward and pun-
ish in eternity—He alone can save or de-
stroy our souls forever—He alone it was who
created us body and spirit, and placed us
here to work out our salvation with fear
and trembling, and he alone it is to whom
all is due, both now and forever—Glory be
to God in the hightest. Amen!

[Column 2]
	I do not know what made me write that
strain, but at times my feelings overflow in
that manner and I long to pour out my
gratitude to the Lord—if I pray it is so, or
if I chance to have my pen I transmit my
thoughts to paper. Who will blame me?
No one whose opinion I care for. The true
Saint can sympathize with such sentiments,
for they swell in the breast of every true
and honest heart. My mother, you are one
of these, and I care more for your good will
than for an army of those scoffers, who
make light of sacred things, so high above
them as to be beyond the reach of their
comprehension.
	How pitiable is their state! Not only are
they without the blessings which flow from
the Holy Spirit in this life, but hereafter
they can lay no claim to the rewards which
await the righteous. Who would be a skep-
tic? Not I; thank God, I know that my
Redeemer liveth. I know I am one of his
flock, poor, weak and erring as I am. I
know he can forgive and does; I know he
can save and will. Never let it come from
my lips that I am independent of his help
and unsupported by his bounty. Rather
let me die now and pass into eternity half
purified, than live to damn my soul with
the curse of infidelity—to turn from the
truth, like swine again to the mire, and de-
ny the holy commandment delivered to me.
No, let me live on in my holy faith, still
hoping, still praying for an increase of the
Spirit, to guide me in the paths of truth
to show me my duty and give me strength
to perform it, that I, after a faithful, hum-
ble, useful life in the service of God on
earth, may mount the steps which lead to
the third estate and thence to a kingdom of
glory in the celestial mansions above. May
the Lord grant it to all of those who call
themselves and who live Latter-day Saints,
in Jesus name. Amen.
	*	*	*	*	*	*
	Remember me to all the children; their
absent brother sends love to all of them—
enough for both houses, whose inmates are
all dear to me. I own no half brothers and
sisters, we are all one family.
	I have been here in Mentor three weeks,
and a most pleasant visit has been my re-
ward during the whole time. Yesterday
we all attended the Fair in Painesville. I
have done no public preaching recently, but
my presence and visits have removed much
prejudice from the minds of these folks
and the neighbors. I am treated well and
welcomed by everybody now, but if I had 
come unacquainted and preached publicly to
the people they would have given me the
cold shoulder. There is more than one
way to preach the gospel, and I always re-
member the words of counsel given by 
Brother Woodruff to the departing mission-
aries, when we were set apart—"Seek to
gain the confidence of the people in divers
ways; live up to your religion in the true
spirit thereof; go into the fields and work
with the farmers and gain good will. It
does not consist merely in going over a vast
area of country; stay in one place and do
as much good as you can in that place
before moving, etc."
	I am now helping cousin cut grain, etc.,
and am much esteemed by the whole fam-
ily, who entreat me not to leave, or if so to
return soon, and in many ways exhibit
genuine affection for me, notwithstanding
my earnest and open defense of Mormon-
ism, advocacy of Polygamy, etc., which
they hold in abhorrence. I sha'n't knuckle
under to my best friends on these points.
I'm a full-blooded "Mormon," and don't
care who knows it.
		Your affectionate son.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE.

	BLOOMINGTON, Sept. 26th, 1877.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I have just returned from a most enjoya-
ble affair, and thinking a few items might
interest you, I herewith send the same.
You must know the “cause,” and then you
will understand the “effect.” The Presi-
dent of the Relief Society noticed an edi-
torial in your paper recently recommend-
ing having the children glean. The time
was short, and it being the first time such 
a thing was tried in this place, very little
else but a commencement, or as it were a
foundation laid to improve and build on in
years to come, was expected to be accom-
plished. The President of the Relief So-
ciety, Mrs. Greenhalch, (a most estimable
lady,) and the President of the Young La-
dies Mutual Improvement Association (who
is also an excellent lady,) called a meeting.
It would be tiresome to go into other de-
tails, but the result was the children suc-
ceeded in saving about two and a half bush-
els of grain, after it was threshed. The
ladies gave the juvenile gleaners a party,
the President of the Association opened
her house for the children, and with the
officers of the Relief Society they all gath-
ered up their baskets of picnic and assem-
bled this afternoon at Mrs. Dunn’s. Yours
Truly enjoyed the honor of being an invi-
ted guest. I found the little girls down in
the willows close to the house playing with
great glee. They escorted me up to the
house, where I found a cosy bevy of good
sisters. My ears were soon saluted with
the pleasant sound ot children’s voices in
the next room, singing Sunday School
songs. They sang very sweetly. Miss
Mary Greenhalch led the singers in a very
pretty way keeping excellent time. The
songs were “Gathering home,” “We meet
again," "The Work," “Gay and happy;”
“All hands study;” the two former and the 
last one pleased me most. Some pleasant
games were played, after which supper was
announced. Abundance of everything good
was provided, and to gaze on that table
groaning with luxuries, it was hard to be-
lieve the general cry of “hard times."
Rice puddings in large pans, all kinds of
cakes and pies, and best of all a monstrous.
chicken pie. Oh Mrs. Editor if you could
only have tasted that pie, your respect,
like mine, would have been increased for
the contributor thereof. Blessed be the
woman who invented chicken-pies. The
children separated with light hearts and
happy faces. Great credit is due to Mrs. 
Dunn whose head heart and hands were
exercised to the utmost to make every-
thing connected with the affair a success.
Also to Mrs. Greenhalch and Mrs. Bee. It
was altogether a very pleasant and happy
affair.
		Yours,
				S. Y. D.


A LEAKING LAKE.—The theory that 
there are subterranean connections between
the numerous lakes in Central New York
has been often advanced. For years there 
has been more or less loss of water in the 
limestone sinks along the bed of the Ske-
neateles outlet, below Long Bridge, and the
Skeneateles Iron Works. Hart Lot Paper
Mill bus been unable to run steadily on ac-
count of failure of water; a recent scientific
examination, shows that at least one-third
of the volume of water is swallowed up in
the vicinity of the rolling-mill dam, where
there is a largo whirlepool.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,  	  	- Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00. one copy six months,
1.00.  Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates.  Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $3.00 per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate.  Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, OCT. 15, 1877


[Column 1]
		AUTUMNAL SENTIMENTS.

		"Now garnering gray October's sober gains,
		Now Christmas hollies pile our loaded wains."

	All poets, or poetical prose (not prosy,) writ-
ers who are of the descriptive class, who delight
to dwell upon scenery, seasons, birds, flowers,
waterfalls, rivulets and sunshine, who assim-
ilate their sentiments and subjects to nature's
varied and changeful moods, revel in the po-
etical inspiration of falling leaves, faded flow-
ers, gorgeous colored forests all aflame with
beauty, brown hills and royal-purple sunsets.

	"But see the fading many-colored woods,
	Shade deep'ning over shade, the country round
	Embrown."
							THOMSON'S SEASONS.

	Autumn in the poets nomenclature is de-
fined as the "Daughter of the Year," she car-
ries off the palm with dignity in royal style.
The year has reached its maturity and is re-
ceiving the crown of its glory, the luscious
fruits of vine and tree, the fields of ripened
grain, gathered with the sickle and gleaned
by the reapers, the bundles strewed or stacked,
stretching afar in the distance, gladden the
eye and convey to the soul the idea of abund-
ance. The golden yellow corn in ear, and all
the varieties of the vegetable kingdom, im-
press one with a sense of fulness, of complete-
ness, and seem the similitude of earth's
wreath of victory and rejoicing.
	Autumn even in her triumph is the precurs-
or of doom, of the cold burial of hopes, of all
that was fresh and green and beautiful in the 
grave of stern, hard relentless winter, the
monarch of the year, who rules with icy cold-
ness and crushes the life from out the heart of
the matron whose full summer has ripened
into maturity. Winter bedecks the brow, so
lately crowned with the victor's wreath of
beauty and bloom, with the cold frosted, glit-
tering icicle.

		"The Autnmn's wind swept o'er the hill,
		And winter's breath comes cold and chill."

	Although we must confess to a lingering love
for Spring and Summer, yet Autumn with its
pensive evening twilights, its "melancholy
sadness," its rustle and flutter of dry leaves,
has something peculiarly akin to poetical senti-
ment, and also really seems congenial, and in
sympathy with the "sober realities of life."
This season may well be termed moody in more
respects than one, for it changes almost daily.
Autumn is almost as fickle in November as
Spring is in April, and the mood of persons
hangs on the same equivocal vicissitudes.
	Autumn does seem peculiarly appropriate for
meditation and reflection, the "sear and yellow
leaf," the fading of "the day's sweet light,"
and the gray shadows of the cool and amber
paling moonlight night, infuse their quiet

[Column 2]
beauty into the human soul. Nature has 
groaned, as it were, with the heavy weight of
"corn and oil," and the sheaves of grain are
full to bursting, and the wine gushes with ful-
ness from the press, and the land o'erflows with
the bounty of the harvest of all earth's pro-
ducts. The sky is flaming with its crimson
shades and coloring, and the reflection drapes
the hills and woods with violet and purple shad-
ows. The landscape mellows as the year wanes
and Winter comes apace. There is a lan-
guage in the trees at this peculiar season that
passes all description; it speaks forcibly to those
who possess intuition, or susceptibility to feel
the influence that pervades the atmosphere of
their locality, and seems to diffuse itself into the
very soul of the lover of nature, and pour itself
forth spontaneously in strains and bursts of en-
thusiasm that run parallel to the surroundings.
It is well to devote a little season to meditation
and reflection, but not allow one's self to merge
into gloom, and dwell too much among shad-
ows, for substance is always preferable to shad-
ows, and to plant one's feet on the solid earth is
surer footing than flying off into the clouds,
however alluring their ethereal proportions
may appear in the distance. One is more cer-
tain of one's self on terra firma than in the re
gion of uncertainty. There is a pathos in the
sighing requiem of the departing glory of Au-
tumn that falls soothingly upon the senses, and
impresses one with a solemnity, mingled with
reverence, that reaches out after and grasps all
of the Infinite with which nature, in her teem-
ing luxuriance, at this season abounds.
	The death of vegetation by frost and wind
late in the autumn is styled the funeral of the
year, it has been born in its characteristic sence,
has been fondled and dandled in the arms of
Spring, has developed into beauty under the
auspices of Summer, and has ripened into ful-
ness of strength and grown sober and gray
with the chilly winds of Autumn and the
trees sigh its requiem, and Winter comes to
grasp with its firm hold, and gather in its
bosom all that remains of beauty and fragrance
of the passing year, and with the Christmas
Holidays make what recompense it may for
marring the beauty and despoiling the glory of
nature's perfection and burying it out of
sight. How many lessons of life may be learned
from the sentiments which the changes of
time involve. How many precious memories
are buried with the fading of the leaves, how
many hopes are blown away regretfully, that
we recall in sympathy with the fluttering
leaves, and the flitting birds, who no longer
sing as before, but pass to other and more con-
genial climes.
	But if one has sown good seed in the heart,
and treasured up in the garner of the mind,
pure thoughts and holy inspirations, then, by
the Winter fireside, with kindly nurture,
these exquisite gems of true and genuine worth
may be growing and strengthening and diffus-
ing light and imparting to other hearts and
other minds a genial warmth, a glowing com-
fort, that may culminate in a purity and fresh-
ness that will beautify and adorn the life in-
doors, and cheer and gladden the atmosphere of
home, or the surroundings of the poor and low-
ly, and give expression and tone to the heaven-
born charity, which properly nourished,
fills the human soul with joy, come Spring or
Summer, Autumn or Winter.
			[handwritten] E. B. Well


NOTICE.

	There will be an annual meeting of the sev-
eral committes on Storing Grain, at the Coun-
cil House in this city, Saturday, Nov. 17th, at


2 o'clock p. m., sharp. Presidents and Secre-
taries of Societies who have been engaged in
Storing Grain for Zion, will please report as
soon as possible by letter to the President of
Central Committee, the amount of grain they
have on hand, how it is stored and what are
their future prospects in this work, in order
that the Central Committee may make a full
and clear as well as definite report of all grain
stored for Zion, and held in trust in the hands
of women. A punctual attendance of all the
sisters of the Societies in this city, or near lo-
calities, is desired.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	SILK.—The Deseret Silk Association met at
the Fireman's Hall according to appointment,
Friday, Oct. 5, Vice-President Mrs. M. I.
Horne presiding.
	Mrs. Horne was pleased to meet with the
Association and to see the interest that was
manifested in this branch of home industry.
She had done her best while travelling through
the settlements in showing the people the ne-
cessity of becoming self-sustaining in all
things. She advised the brethren to plant out
trees and the sisters to raise silk, as they had
been called to that mission by our late beloved
President Brigham Young.
	Mr. C. Swenson, of Pleasant Grove said he
had been very successful in silk-raising and
felt greatly encouraged. He thought next
year there would be a great interest taken in
this branch of home industry. Every family
that could get the trees ought to raise some
cocoons, especially the farmers.
	Mr. W. Smith of Bountiful, said he would
like very much to see the machinery here to 
work up the silk when it was raised; and thus
find employment for children; he had planted
out two hundred trees and a great many cut-
tings. The cuttings he had buried in the
ground had done the best. They should be
planted about eight inches deep.
	Meeting adjourned un[-]il the first Friday in
November, at 3 p. m.
					R. SIMPSON, Secretary.

	THE LOGAN Temple.—The ceremonies of
laying the corner stone of the Logan Temple,
took place on Monday, Sept. 17, and was of a
most impressive character. President John
Taylor with several of the Twelve Apostles,
Counselor D. H. Wells, several Presidents of
Seventies also of High Priests, Presiding Bish-
op, Edward Hunter and his counselors and
clerk, and Presidency of the Salt Lake Stake
of Zion were present. There were also many
of the authorities of Weber and Box Elder
Stakes, and the local authorities of Cache
County, and thousands of people were present
to witness the ceremony. There was a band of
music in attendance and the company was
formed in procession according to programme
arranged for the occasion. The south east cor-
ner stone was first laid. This stone was laid
by the Apostles, the south-west which was
next in order was laid by the Presiding Bish-
op, his counselors and the presidents of the
lesser priesthood and Bishops of Stakes. The
north-west corner was laid by the Presidents
of High Priests and the presidents of Logan
and other stakes; the north-east corner stone
was laid by the Presidents of Seventies and
Elders. At each corner the ceremony consist-
ed of singing a hymn, an appropriate address
and prayer of dedication. The dedicatory
prayers were offered by Apostle F. D. Rich-
ards, Elders L. W. Hardy, Moses Thatcher
and Horace S. Eldridge. The Temple will
certainly be a most magnificent edifice when


[Column 1]
completed. The saints in that county are
working energetically to carry out the instruc-
tions of the late President by their united ef-
forts.

	SYNOPSIS OF a meeting of the Young Ladies
Association of the 13th Ward, held July 5th,
1877. After the usual opening exercises and
reading of the minutes, President Mrs. Thom-
as spoke of the fast meetings and the enjoy-
ment she experienced in attending them. The
teaching from the Bishop and his counselors
was excellent. It seems to be the time for
both old and young to ask themselves if they
are living their religion. Spoke of the vote
passed by the Association in regard to evil
speaking, had since attended a meeting where
the speakers had laid this subject pointedly
before the congregation. Hoped the girls
would ever be found in the path of duty.
Mrs. Zina Y. Williams accepted the position
of 1st Counselor; spoke of the Young Ladies
meetings in Brigham City, and other places
that she had attended while absent. Thought
the Saints were trying to live their religion,
spoke of the trials that would await those who
are earnest in their work; but it will strength-
en us to remember that every time we bind
Satan from our hearts we are triumphing over
wrong and taking one step in the right way;
spoke of the votes we pass from time to time;
it is a most solemn thing to covenant with the
Father, and it will be to our own grief and con-
demnation if we do not keep them faithfully.
Spoke of the homemade hats etc. Counselors
Misses Kate, Annie and May Wells, Miss Lucy
Stringham and Mrs. Fannie Thatcher each
spoke for a short time, after which Sisters Sad-
dler, Bathsheba W. Smith, and M. P. Young,
all bore good testimonies and spoke on the
principles of the Gospel. President Mrs.
Thomas spoke of the temple donations, men-
tioned that twelve dollars and forty cents had
been handed in for the Temple during this
quarter; encouraged the girls to continue with
it. Other remarks were made and the meet-
ing adjourned for one week by singing "Praise
God," and benediction by Mrs. M. P. Young.

	THE SEMI Annual Conference which has
just past had something peculiarly character-
istic in its proceedings that makes it an epoch
in the history of this church. The manner of
voting so entirely new to this people was a 
grand and imposing spectacle in itself and cal-
culated to inspire awe and solemnity in the
hearts of all who witnessed it, and it carried
with it a power that was electrifying in its ef-
fect upon the vast congregation. Nothing
could be more thoroughly impressive, and
none present will ever forget the spirit of the
time and place that hovered over and around
them on that occasion. The perfect union
manifested was in itself something calculated
to give the highest tone of elevation to the
whole assembly.
	Elder George Q. Cannon presented the au-
thorities of the Church; and each quorum of
the Priesthood in their respective order, and af-
terwards the entire congregation voted by ris-
ing simultaneously to their feet at the same
time lifting their right hand. President John
Taylor was sustained as President of the
Twelve Apostles, and of the Presidency of the
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. The Twelve Apostles as the presiding
quorum and authority of the Church, and as
Prophets, Seers and Revelators. President
John Taylor was also sustained as Trustee-in-
Trust with the Twelve Apostles, their Coun-
selors, and Presiding Bishop Edward Hunter
and his Counselors.

[Column 2]
	The congregation is estimated to have been
from 12,000 to 14,000 in numbers, and yet the
most excellent order prevailed. The preach-
ing praying and music during the entire Con-
ference was of the most exalted character and
tone. It really seems as if everything had
been remembered, and the people had receiv-
ed a fulness of blessings. The brethren of the
Twelve in their manifold blessings did not for-
get the sisters who labor as co-workers in as-
sisting to build up Zion; and the remembrance
of their labors given them at the Conference
will call forth from them a renewal of prayers
and blessings upon the brethren who hold the
keys of the Priesthood and its administration
in Zion.

	TO WOMEN'S ORGANIZATIONS INTERESTED
IN STORING GRAIN FOR ZION.—Storing grain is
one of the subjects on which too much cannot
be said at the present time, and to all who are
desirous of promoting the future good and
prosperity of Israel, we would say talk up the
grain question. That women are ridiculed for
trying to save grain for a famine is true, cer-
tainly, ridiculed here at home among the
saints, and by those who profess to believe in
the future fall of Babylon and its attendant
consequences. They think the help of wo-
men too insignificant to effect anything in
this direction. President Young did not think
so, he believed in the financial ability of wo-
men to systematically organize and institute
such enterprises as would ultimately succeed
in producing the greatest results. We have
repeatedly been told that all that women could
do in this respect would be only as a drop in
the bucket.
	This mission of storing grain has been given
to the women of Utah and many of them re-
alize that it is of the greatest importance. We
know that already considerable grain has
been stored and some granaries have been
built, and much is being done in this matter
by women in various localities in this Terri-
tory. In order to regulate and systematize
this MAMMOTH undertaking, it is of course es-
sential that all should have a thorough under-
standing of the subject, and should be well-
posted in all the details pertaining to the work
from time to time. Women who are engaged
and interested in this work should make every
exertion not only to save all the grain possible,
and preserve it from everything that would
injure it in any way, and use all the influence
they can with others to save and make
appropriations or donations to the grain in the
various wards, but they should also acquaint
others with what they are doing, and let a
record be kept of all grain stored for Zion, and
how and when it is thus stored, and in whose
care, and what are the future plans in regard
to adding to it, and taking measures to care-
fully preserve it. This can only be accom-
plished by having a complete account of every-
thing seperate and apart from other items. In
the meeting held in this interest last fall, we
suggested to the Secretaries of the Relief So-
cieties the expediency of having separate books
for grain. If this suggestion has been followed
out, then there will be very little trouble in
making up reports. It must be understood
by all who have ever read the article publish-
ed by President Young's wish, and reviewed
and approved by him before its publication,
that this grain is being stored for Zion; that
no person, or committee, or president of society
has any right to draw out or dispose of any
of it, for any purpose. The design is to secure
as much as possible and garner it carefully, and
when the right time comes to use it, the prop-
er method of disbursement will be revealed to

[Column 3]
those who hold it in trust for Zion, in as plain
and simple a manner as was the counsel to
purchase and store it. We are pleased with
the good reports we hear from time to time al-
though they are not definite, and we desire as
much as it is possible to encourage the Socie-
ties to persevere in this good cause, for we
know by the revelations of ancient and mod-
ern times that famines are inevitable. We al-
so know that if the future is to be judged of by
the past, then there are the times of famine,
setting prophecy one side; there have been
among all peoples and in all countries times of
scarcity, and America is not exempt and even
were such the case, were other countries in-
volved in famine, how glorious it would be to
come to their aid with bread, with the staff of
life. Sisters rather let all of us put some
means into this organization and buy up the
wheat and preserve it, than to spend any trifle
we can spare in that which will be of no last-
ing benefit to either soul or body. Those who
have known hunger in days past should
feel, that a few hundred bins of wheat scat-
tered throughout the territory, would be more
desirable than all the stores of fancy articles
that could be sustained here. The Women of
Utah may justly be proud of the movement
already made in saving grain, It is some-
thing far ahead of the women of the world,
something entirely original with this people,
and is far in advance of any move other women
have yet made. The Lord inspired our late
President to inaugurate this movement, there
is not a shadow of doubt, and if the sisters are
prompt in carrying out this enterprise, the Lord
will aid them, and all good men and women
will reverence them for it, and their enemies
will be confounded.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		77


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought I would say a few words through
your valuable paper, praying the Lord to guide
my thoughts with His holy spirit, that I may
say something that may be of interest to your
readers, especially to the young ladies of the
Improvement Associations. I attended one of
their meetings last Monday in the 11th Ward.
I was pleased to see the little girls rise from
their seats and read their selections, and speak.
I thought how lovely and beautiful they looked;
and I feel sure that God and the angels were
pleased with them. I pray the Lord to bless
them with wisdom and knowledge that they 
may learn and understand the things pertain-
ing to life and salvation, and as they grow in
years they may grow in grace and favor with
the Lord; for it is the youth that the greater
portion of this Latter-day work will rest upon.
I pray that they may go on from one degree of
true learning to another, until glory will
crown their labors. When I was a little girl
I was very fond of the little hymn on page 36
in our hymn book.

		Be it my only wisdon here.
		To serve the Lord with f[---]al fear,
			With love and gratitade;
		Superior sense may I display
		By shunning every evil way
			And walking in the good.
									J. BROWN.
20th Ward, S. L. City.


NEVER affect to be witty, or jest so as to
wound the feelings of another.

	SPEAK with calmness and deliberation on
all occasions especially of circumstances
which tend to irritate.


78		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	REMARKS OF ELDER GEORGE Q.
				CANNON,
	AT THE FUNERAL OF PRESIDENT
				YOUNG.

	If there ever is an occasion, brethren and
sisters, when words are too feeble to ex-
press the emotions of the human heart, it
is one like the present. This is a time of
mourning, not a time of speaking. Still
we would not be doing justice to our feel-
ings, nor to the memory of our great lead-
er, if we did not give some utterances to
the feelings that oppress our hearts.
	I have never in my life contemplated
the death of President Young with the
calmness that I have since it occurred; and
I have wondered at myself. It is true it
has been exceedingly difficult for me to
control my feelings, to keep from break-
ing down; but there has been a calmness, a
serenity, a peace connected with his death,
his departure from our midst, that I think
all have felt who have come in contact with
him. His departure was like the falling
asleep of a little infant. No tremor, no
contortions; but as peaceful and as quiet,
as if it were indeed the most gentle slum-
ber. I have often heard President Young
speak about death; and when I saw him
depart I felt that the great wish of his
heart had at last been granted unto him.
Naturally he was a man of indomitable
courage, of an unyielding will; and he
could not submit to the conqueror death
without struggling against him. This was
characteristic of his nature. But his natu-
ral feelings, as I have often heard him re-
mark, and I think he has expressed the
same in public several times, were that he
should hail the day of his release from his
mortal existence as the happiest day of his
life. Whenever it should be the good
pleasure of our Father in heaven to call
him hence, he would go, he said with
great pleasure and satisfaction. But as I
have said as long as life remained, as long
as he felt it his duty to remain here, he
would struggle, he would contend for life,
he would not yield; but would endeavor to 
fnlfill the mission which our Father in
heaven assigned unto him. It is only a
few weeks ago when conversing with one
of the Twelve, I remarked that I would be
afraid, if it were not for one thing that
President Young was not going to remain,
long with us. He was so hurried, was so
urged in his feelings concerning the organ-
ization of the people; pressing matters for-
ward, anxious to get the Priesthood organ-
ized and the Stakes everywhere set in or-
der. He released all the Twelve from pre-
siding over local places. Brother C. C.
Rich, Brother Brigham Young, Junr.
Brother Lorenzo Snow and Brother Frank-
lin D. Richards in the North; Brother Or-
son Hyde and Brother Erastus Snow in
the South; all were released from presid-
ing over the Stakes of Zion, and were told
by the President that their mission had a
larger field than a Stake of Zion. He set
the Priesthood in order as it has never be-
fore been since the first organiz[-]tion of the
Church upon the earth. He defined the
duties of the Apostles, he defined the du-
ties of the Seventies, he defined the duties
of the High Priests, the duties of the Eld-
ers and those of the lesser Priesthood, with
plainness and distinction and power—the
power of God—in a way that it is left on
record in such unmistakable language that
no one need err who has the spirit of God
resting down upon him. And when con-
templating the organization of the Chcrch
as it is, we can testify of the goodness of

[Column 2]
our God and we can feel to accord to him
all praise for giving unto us so great and so
good and so exalted a character as our be-
loved Brother Brigham, whose remains
now lie before us. His value has not been
properly estimated by the Latter-day Saints.
There are none of us who will not realize
this more and more in the future. To-day,
now that we have lost him we can exam-
ine our conduct, and the wish will arise
that we had been more obedient, more wil-
ling to observe his counsels and pay him
that respect and reverence which his great
qualities as a leader and prophet deserved.
This we can do, even though we have been
faithful and obedient. The time will come
when the Latter-day Saints will appreciate
him as one of the greatest prophets that
ever lived. I have been much with him.
I looked upon this association as the great-
est privilege of my life, to have heard his
counsels and witness his life as I have.
And in contemplating that life, it seems
to me perfect: In my eyes and to my feel-
ings he was as perfect a man as could be
in mortality. He certainly never uttered
any counsel, or gave any instruction or
taught any doctrine which I did not en-
dorse with all my heart. This I believe to
be the case with thousands upon thousands
of Latter-day Saints, notwithstanding our
laxity in doing the will of God in all things
as we should have done.
	On Tuesday night, as I sat at the head of
his bed and thought of his death, if it
should occur, I recoiled from the contem-
plation of the view. It seemed to me that
he was indispensable. What could we do
without him? He has been the brain, the
eye, the ear, the mouth and hand of the
entire people of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints. From the greatest
details connected with the organization of
this Church down to the smallest minutiae
connected with the work he has left upon
it the impress of his great mind. From
the organization of the Church, and the
construction of Temples; the building of
Tabernacles; the creation of a ProvisionalState government and a Territorial govern-
ment, down to the small matter of direct-
ing the shape of these seats upon which
we sit this day; upon all these things, as
well as upon all the settlements in the Ter-
ritory, the impress of his genius is appar-
ent. Nothing was too small for his mind;
nothing was too large. His mind was of
that character that it could grasp the great-
est subjects, and yet it had the capacity to
descend to the minutest details. This was
evident in all his counsels and associations
with the Saints; he had that power, that
wonderful faculty which God gave him
and with which he was inspired. And
while I was thinking of all this, it seemed
as though we could not spare him, he was
indispensable to this great work. And
while I felt it, it seemed as though a voice
said, "I am God; this is my work; it is I
who build it up and carry it forward; it is
my business to guide my saints." He is
our Father and God; he is the Leader, he
cannot die; he is beyond the shafts of the
adversary. And he will guide and direct
his people, if they will listen to his coun-
sels, from this time forward, until they are
led into his celestial kingdom.

	And that we may remember our great
earthly leader and treasure up his teach-
ings, his counsels and instructions and that
we may follow the glorious example he has
set us in his devotion to the work, in his
self-abnegation in putting away everything
that would interfere with the fulfillment
and perfect performance of his duties, as

[Column 3]
Latter-day Saints, is my prayer in the
name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

		ELDER JOHN TAYLOR.

	To-day is a solemn day for Israel. We
have before us the body of the man who
has led us for the last thirty-three years.
Thirty-three years ago I was with and wit-
nessed the departure of our first president
Joseph Smith. He passed away under
very different circumstances from those
which have surrounded President Brigham
Young in his last hours. Immured in pris-
on, surrounded with enemies who sought
his life, and attacked by a ruthless mob,
savage and relentless they took away his
life, and he died by the hand and in the
midst of vindictive and blood-thirsty foes,
who in the absence of legal offense, sur-
charged with deadly venomous hate, clam-
ored for his blood.
	President Young, after leading the Church
and buffeting the trials and persecu-
tions to which the Church has ever been
subjected, has at length, in these valleys of
the mountains, after having accomplished
the object of his life and done the work
that has been represented here so truthfully
by our brethren who have spoken, has lain
down to sleep in the midst of a loving and
affectionate family and surrounded by faith-
ful and tried friends; with hosts of associa-
tions that were loving, sympathetic and in-
teresting, who breathed nothing but con-
dolence, kindness and blessings, and through-
out the Territory the people as with one
voice offered up their prayers to the Most
High in behalf of their suffering, dying
president.
	Both of these presidents had the faith
and confidence of the Saints of the Most
High, and the guidance and direction of
the Lord. And the feeling of the people
as exhibited here, the gathering together
of this Priesthood and the Saints that I see
before me to-day, is evidence of the re-
spect and kindness that beat in every heart
and throb through every pulse; and it is
gratifying to know that the same feelings
prevail throughout the length and breadth
of this Territory. As has been said, his
name and fame are known among all peo-
ple, and a knowledge of these events has
spread to the uttermost bounds of the ever-
lasting hills. All nations have heard of it,
and all peoples are interested in these events
that are now surrounding us. Not only us
and them, but the Gods in the eternal
worlds. The former President Joseph
Smith, and this our late President Brigham
Young, meet again face to face in the eter-
nal worlds. Both have triumphed, both
have overcome.
	As has been remarked, the work we are
engaged in is not the work of man. Jo-
seph Smith did not originate it, neither did
Brigham Young, nor the Twelve nor any
mortal man. It emanated from God, he is
its author, his eve is over us, he is watch-
ing every movement and every transaction
that transpires now, and that transpired ever
since the commencement, and will continue
so to do; he will guide the ship to the lat-
ter end. It is He that has been our Grand
Leader; these others now departed have
been our brethren, appointed to lead and
guide us, under his direction in the paths
of life. And although we mourn the loss of
our departed friend, a brother and a presi-
dent, and although the feelings of our
hearts sympathize with his family and
friends, yet at the same time there are
principles greater and grander than any
personal interest, or any individuality asso-
ciated with these matters. It is a heavenly


interest, the building up of Zion the estab-
lishment of the Kingdom of God and the
rolling forth of his purposes upon the earth.
And while Brother Joseph and Brother
Brigham sleep, yet both of them live, and
both of them, as they operated in time,
will operate in eternity in behalf of the
whole of Israel and the consummation of our
Father’s purposes. These are things in
which the Gods are interested; and all the
priesthood, and apostles and prophets and
men of God that have ever breathed, are
also interested with us.
	And it is for us, as Latter-day Saints to
magnify our calling and our priesthood,
honoring our God by performing faithfully
and well the duties devolving upon us, that
as the changing scenes we are anticipating
shall come upon all nations—revolutions suc-
ceeding revolutions, we may have a steady
onward movement, guided by the Lord;
that we may progress and steady affairs
among his people and provide a refuge for
the distressed among the assembling na-
tions; that the light, intelligence and power
of God may shine in our midst, that Zion
may arise and shine, and the glory of God
rest upon her.
	I do not wish to prolong the time; but
felt like making a few remarks. To the
family of President Young I say “God
bless you! The God of heaven comfort
your hearts! May peace flow unto you, and
may you be led in the paths of life, and im-
itate the example of your departed hus-
band, father and friend! And you Latter-
day Saints follow in his footsteps, in the
paths of righteousness. Let us obey all of
God’s laws, and all will be well with us.
We are not alone! God is with us, and he
will continue with us from this time hence-
forth and forever. And while we mourn a
great and good man dead, I see thousands
of staunch and faithful ones around me
and before me who are for Israel, for God
and his kingdom; men who are desirous to
see his will done on earth as angels do it in
heaven.
	That God may bless us all, and lead us in
the paths of life, is my prayer in the name
of Jesus. Amen.—"Deseret News."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN FOR OFFICE.

	In the great cry against Woman's Rights,
the greatest fear of some men seems to be
that women might obtain some office that is
now held by man. Have no fear on that
score, brethren. Among all my female ac-
quaintances I do not know of one woman
who wishes to hold the office of sheriff;
but many of my male acquaintances have
made themselves unhappy because their
friends did not see fit to elect them sheriff,
or at least to nominate them for that office.
I know of no woman who wishes to be State
representative, but I know of a number of
men who feel chagrined and indignant be-
cause their friends thought them unfit to
be legislators, and voted for the "other
man." Who knows a woman who would
be willing to go before a convention for any
mere office of state or nation? And who
does not know that there are other things
for women to think about? No, no, it is
not the desire to hold office (although there
are many offices that women might hold
without losing the respect that is accorded
to woman) that engages so many female
minds, but the right to hold their own
children, and to hold what they earn by
the sweat of their brow, and the right to
say whether a man, or a mere apology,
should sit in the legislative halls and make


the laws whereby they are governed. In
the days of slavery it was the slave mother
and not the slave father that held the child.
The slave has been emancipated; given the
right to vote, and made custodian (so to
speak) of his wife, her earnings and her
children. While the uneducated and super-
stitious male negro is made of as much im-
portance at the ballot-box as the president
of the United States, woman, with the
companionship of books and papers, is
deemed unfit to vote. Such is the law of
our nation; we make no war upon that law.
We only wish to suggest to man that he
pause upon his road of usefulness, and con-
sider how much (or rather how little) he
would have accomplished had it not been
for the companionship and counsel of wo-
man. Where is the man noted for his wis-
dom and goodness; but will say that "a good
woman made me what I am?" Woman
guides the destinies of man; acknowledge
her worth by recognizing her rights of citi-
zenship.				MRS. E. C. 
	—Woman's Words.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	LET US HAVE CHEAPER RAILWAYS.—We
have at this time about 60,000 miles of
broad gauge railway in operation in the
United States.
	These railways have cost from $20,000 to
$60,000 per mile. Estimating their aver-
age cost at $40,000 per mile, they represent
$2,400,000,000.
	Had we originally adopted the narrow
gauge, at half the cost of the broad, the
expenditure would have been $1,200,000,-
000, leaving an equal amount for invest-
ment in manufacturing and other enter-
prises.
	Or, with the $2,400,000,000 invested in
narrow gauge, it would have given us 240,-
000 miles in active operation to-day. It
needs no argument to demonstrate that, if
we had double the number of miles in oper-
ation that we now have, our resources
would be developed much more rapidly
than is now being done.
	Neither does it need any argument to
prove that, had our railways cost us only
$10,000 to $20,000 per mile, it would have
cost less to operate them, and that our gen-
eral interests would have been advanced in
a corresponding degree.—Ex.


WOMEN IN CHINA.

	The condition of women in China is most
pitiable; suffering, privation, contempt, all
kinds of misery and degradation seize on
her in her cradle, and accompany her piti-
lessly to the tomb. Her very birth is com-
monly regarded as a humiliation and dis-
grace to the family,—an evident sign of the
malediction of heaven. If she is not im-
mediately suffocated, she is treated and
looked upon as a creature intrinsically dis-
picable, and scarcely belonging to the hu-
man race. This appears so incontestable a
fact, that Pan-houi-pan, celebrated, though
a woman, among Chinese writers, endeav-
ors in her works to humiliate her own sex
by reminding them constantly of the infe-
rior rank they occupy in the creation.
"When a son is born," she says, "he sleeps
on a bed, he is clothed with silk and plays
with pearls; every—one attends to his
princely cries. But when a girl is born,
she sleeps upon the ground, is meanly
wrapped up in cloth, plays with a tyle, and
is incapable of acting either virtuously or


viciously. She has nothing to think of but
preparing food, making wine, and not vex
ing her parents." Even after marriage her
case is not improved. According to the
expressions of an old Chinese writer, "the
newly-married wife should be but a shadow
and echo in the house." She has no right
to take her meals with her husband; nay,
not even with her male children; her duty
is to serve them at table, to stand by them
in silence, help them to drink and light
their pipes. She must eat alone, and after
they are done, and in a corner; her food is
scanty and coarse, and she would not dare
to touch even what is left by her own sons.
It may be thought that this idea does not
well agree with the much-talked-of princi-
ples of filial piety; but it must not be for-
gotten that in China the woman counts for
nothing; the law ignores her existence, or
notices her merely to load her with fetters,
to complete her servitude, and to confirm
her legal incapacity.—Dublin University
Magazine.


EDGAR ALLAN POE.

	The following poem, attributed to Edgar
Allan Poe, and first published by the Koko-
mo (Ind.) "Dispatch", was discovered by
the editor of that journal on the fly-leaf of
an old book. Attracted by the initials "E.
A. P.," at the bottom of the page, he in-
quired the author's name, when the owner
of the book, who seemed through lack of
education unable to appreciate the treasure,
informed him that his grandparents, who
gave him the book, kept a country hotel in
a small village called Chesterfield, near
Richmond, Va. One night a young man
rapped at the door, and asked if he could
stay there until morning. He was shown
a room, and that was the last they saw of
him. When they went to call him to
breakfast next morning, they found he had
gone away and left the book, on the fly-leaf
of which were written the lines we give
below, "verbatim." The poem is written
in Roman characters, without erasure or an
interlineated word, and is almost as legible
as print, though somewhat faded by the
lapse of time. Here it is:	

	LEONAINIE.

Leonalnie—angels named her, 
	And they took the light
Of the laughing stars and framed her
	In smile of white
		And they made her hair of gloomy
		Midnight, and her eyes of bloomy
		Moonshine, and they brought her to me
	In a solemn night.

In a solemn night of summer
	When my heart of gloom
Blossomed up to greet the comer
	Like a rose in bloom.
		All foreboding that distressed me
		I forgot as joy caressed me—
		(Lying joy that caught and pressed me
	In the arms of doom.)

Only spake the little lisper
	In the angel tongue;
Yet I, listening, heard her whisper:
	"Songs are only sung
		Here below that they may grieve you—
		Tales are told you to deceive you—
		So must Leonainie leave you—
	While her love is young."

Then God smiled and it was morning,
	Matchless and supreme;
Heaven’s glory seemed adorning
	Earth with its esteem;
		Every heart but mine seemed gifted
		With the voice of prayer, and lifted
		Where my Leonainie drifted
	From me like a dream.

		E. A. P.


80		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCIENTIFIC NOTE.

	PROFESSOR Grote maintains that the origi-
nal inhabitants of America came from Asia
by way of the North during the latter part
of the miocene or earlier part of the plio-
cene, and that this tertiary population
spread to the south along the mountainous
backbone of the two Americas; that on the
advent of the glacial epoch the people liv-
ing in the extreme North were modified by
the change in climate, and were brought
down by the ice, and followed it back again
to the arctic circle, and that the present re-
presentatives of glacial man are the Esqui-
maux. Through a study of migrations, he
reaches the conclusion that the ice must
have acted as a barrier to further communi-
cation between the continents of Asia and
America, and consequently that the civiliz-
ations of Central America and of the
mound-builders are indigenous.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	WE protract the career of time by em-
ployment; we lengthen the duration of our
lives by wise thoughts and useful actions.
Life to him who wishes not to have lived
in vain is thought and action.—Zimmer-
mann.
	M. THIERS' small stature was often ridi-
culed. One day as he was walking up the
Champs-Elysees two ladies, who wished to
get a good view of him, approached, and
one of them exclaimed, "How little he is!"
"Yes, madam," replied M. Thiers, turning
around, "but I am somewhat bigger at a
distance."—Ex.


THE MILITARY SALUTE.—The military
salute found its origin in the tournaments
of the Middle Ages, so described by Sir
Walter Scott in his "Waverly Novels." Af-
ter the Queen of Beauty was enthroned,
the knights who were to take part in the
sports of the day marched past the dias on
which she sat, and as they passed they
shielded their eyes from the rays of her
beauty. Such was the very interesting ori-
gin of the old salute. The principal part
of the officer's salute—kissing the hilt of
the sword—dates also from the Middle
Ages. When the crusaders were on their
march toward the Holy City, the knights
were in the daily custom of planting their
long, two-handed swords upright in the
ground, thereby forming a cross, and before
these they performed their morning devo-
tions. It was a solemn and impressive cus-
tom. On all military occasions they kissed
the hilt of their swords in token of their
devotion to the cause of the cross, and this
custom was perpetuated after the crusad-
ers were numbered among the things of
the past and the religious origin of the sa-
lute was forgotten.


SHREDS AND GLEANINGS.

	AIM at cheerfulness without levity.

	NEVER ridicule sacred things, or what
others may esteem as such, however ab-
surd they may appear to you.

	NEVER resent a supposed injury till you
know the views and motives of the author
of it. And on no occasion relate it.

	ALWAYS take the part of an absent per-
son, who is censured in company, so far as
truth and propriety will allow.


A man of genius seeks applause; while
the little-minded of those who have but a
small portion of intellect, try by their van-
ity and conceited boastings to build upon
the mental resources of others their own
fame and reputation. However, it is for
the best, for they soon fall to their proper
level—once they reach it, they never rise.


[Column 1]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

	The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

	[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

		NEW FALL STOOK.

	F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

	SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.

Call at the Constitution Building, Salt Lake Cirt, and ex-
amine the large stock of goods just recieved from the
Mill, consisting of Fine White and Colored Yarns, Flan-
nels, Linseys, Etc.
				JOHN C. CUTLER,
									AGENT.
		ROWE'S
			CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
	Big Boot, Main Street.

	No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

VISITORS TO CONFERENCE
	Amply Repaid by Visiting
TEASDEL,
			FOR
	FAMILY SUPPLIES
			FOR
FALL AND WINTER WEAR.

[Column 2]
	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

	NOTICE TO THE LADIES.
THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
	DRY GOODS,
					IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
	Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1877.	No. 11.﻿


TRIBUTE TO PRESIDENT BRIGHAM
YOUNG.

Sleep for the weary eyes,
	Peace for the throbbing breast,
We all must follow bye and bye!
	Then rest, beloved rest.
Beloved of thy people, sleep!
	No cares disturb thy breast,
Well hast thou earned thy calm respose
	Why should we grudge thy rest?

All grief is selfish, and we mourn
	Our councelor and guide;
The poor man's friend, the friend of truth,
	The Leader, proved and tried.
Thank God! He sleeps in peace;
	The last glance of his eyes
Rested on those he loved; his own
	Recieved his latest sighs.
Farewell! 'tis evening now
	Soon will the darkness flee.
How sweet to meet in the dawning light
	From sin and sorrow free.

	AGNES S. ARMSTRONG.


WE ALL DO FADE AS THE LEAF.

Oh! see but the leaves that around us are falling
From boughs, where so late they were blooming and gay.
And tell me if they are not silently calling
On us to prepare for a like coming day.

Oh! I weep pretty leaves, that thy doom is recorded,
That death, cruel Spoiler has robbed me of thee:
But the lesson thou breathest shall not be unhoarded
But stor'd in my heart shall thy whisperings be.

Adieu too, ye flowers—in love were ye tended,
And repaid me in sweetness in beauty and health,
But now to the tomb are thy beauties descended,
And I mourn as a miser the loss of his wealth.

But let me reflect on the lesson you're giving.
That the summer of life passes quickly away
And the plants that are human and beauteous, and living
Must soon feel the blights of a wintry day! 

And that we like the leaves, and the flowers, must die
And repose for a time in the bosom of earth,
But rise when the Spring that's eternal on high
Shall summon the just to a heavenly birth.

In that glorious Land is the "Tree of Life" waving
And the rose without thorns undecaying shall bloom,
There man—(his Redeemer's atonement all saving)
Transplanted shall be from the jaws of the Tomb.

	HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. City, Dec. 1st, 1876.


[Column 1]

AFTER LONG YEARS.

LETTER I.

	Memory, thy graceful mantle gently falls
		Enwrapping me in some lone dreamy hour,
	And its enchantment ev'ry sense enthralls,
		And holds me spell-bound with its mystic pow'r

	Memory paints its images of the past.
The long years bring up their retinue of
varied scenes, and multifarious changes,
and anon we catch a glimpse of beautiful
coloring like a picture in the mind, and we 
touch it up with the latent recollections we
can awaken; remembrances of our former
lives recorded on memory's tablets, and hid-
den away with other treasures in the dim
and dusty corners of our brain, without
thought of their ever being brought to the
light. It is thus with me to-day. I am
looking down the long vista of the years
and I see a shadowy panorama stretching
away in the distance, disclosing to view as
it slowly unrolls familiar scenes and times
and places. What is it touches us acutely

[Column 2]

in glancing backward, in recalling former
incidents, localities and surroundings. Why
should one realize such exquisite tender-
ness in musing upon the pictures memory
opens up to view; pictures long buried out
of sight, only recalled now and then when
some sudden flash of "the light of other
days" flits across the tablets of the mind.
These impressions, so vivid, have been
stamped not only upon the mind but the
heart; and I believe it is this that causes us
to feel such affectional emotions when we
gaze backward into the long corridors which
time has defaced, and were it not for some
deeply engraven impressions would have
almost obliterated.
	Amid the shades of the past I distinguish
the outline of a form perfect in contour, and
yet so dim and indistinctly defined that it is
scarcely recognizable, only by the general
bearing and the familiar smile that recalls
so many pleasant yet sorrowful things, that
I pause and wonder and contemplate the
changes that have transpired since she
whose image I have ever so fondly cherish-
ed was laid beneath the sod, far from her
home, a victim of the cruel persecution of
a cruel mob in our boasted land of freedom
and religious liberty. Oh how my heart
thrills with indefinable emotions as I see in
fancy and vividly recall the scenes of that
terrible exodus.
	My heart bleeds afresh at this dark and
dismal draping of a part of the life-picture
that hangs in the walls of the old time-hon-
ored edifice which has been gradually grow-
ing and increasing with the years that have
passed. Sometimes smoothly and in harmo-
nious arrangement, sometimes the roughest
stones thrown in with the most awkward
handling, and with a taste and style neither
lofty, or elegant; but I would fain trust they
did not weaken the structure which has
been the work of a life-time. Perchance
in the years that follow we may be able to
polish up and refine some things that have
been left in a rough and unfinished state;
at least it is pleasant to think so. And we
know that if we are now better supplied
with materials for building, though we can-
not obliterate the past, yet we may add
something that will reflect credit upon it,
we may ornament the walls, and adorn it
artistically if we have laid a solid founda-
tion, and we may add to its size heighth
and proportions in such a way as to finish it
up symmetrically.
	But the pictures hung upon its walls
though dimmed and blurred by age we can-
not altogether cover up. Be they disagree-
able ones even there they still hang, as re-
minders of incidents which touch us to the
very centre of our being. I know the world
tells us to shut out the past, to bury it for-
ever, but I think it is sometimes well enough
to catch a glimpse even of unpleasantness.
It is usual to refer to the happy days of
childhood and the scenes that seem bright-
est from the distance, but they too were
made up of storms and sunshine; as well as
those of after years.
	I will say to the readers of our home pa-
per this is the beginning of a series of let-
ters, and if you like them yon shall hear of-
ten from,
	AUNT EM.


NOTES AND NEWS.

CONSTITUTION OF THE CITIZENS
SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION.

	ARTICLE I. The object of this Associa-
tion shall be to secure to all citizens of prop-
er age, without distinction of sex the right
to vote, and with this end in view, to pro-
cure and distribute tracts, documents and 
other printed matter; to prepare and circu-
late petitions to the Legislature and to Con-
gress; to employ lecturers and agents; hold
meetings, and take any other measures that 
may be deemed proper by the Association.
	ARTICLE II. There shall be at least one
stated public meeting each month.
	ARTICLE III. The officers shall be a Pres-
ident, Secretary, and Treasurer, who shall
perform the duties usually assigned to such
offices. They shall report monthly the du-
ties performed by them.
	ARTICLE IV. Any business coming be-
fore the Association requiring action, shall
be referred to a special committee.
	All committees shall be composed of the
mover, with the right on the part of the
mover to name the remainder of the com-
mittee, subject to the action of the Asso-
ciation.
	ARTICLE V. The President and Secretary
at the written request of any five members
of the Association, shall call special meet-
ings, but if the Association at such meet-
ings shall consider the reason for holding
them insufficient, the callers shall be respon-
sible for the expenses.
	ARTICLE VI. Any person may become a 
member of the Association by assenting to
the above and contributing annually to the
funds.
	ARTICLE VII. This Constitution may be
amended at any meeting by a vote of two-
thirds of the members present, provided
that one month's notice of the proposed
change has been given.
	The regular meetings are held at present
at the President's E. M. Davis, Walnut
Place, 205, Philadelphia, on the third
Wednesday of each month at 3 P. M.
	We commend the simplicity of our or-
ganization. If you can find four others to
join you, form an association. Send us the
name you adopt that we may co-operate
with you, and send you our publications.
	SUSAN B. ANTHONY lectured in Toledo,
September 6, on "Working Men and their
Strikes." She proceeded directly to Colora-
do, and give the remainder of the month of
September to the woman suffrage campaign
in that State. Miss Anthony went without
money and without price, wholly at her
own expense, with the exception of a small
contribution by two excellent friends, who,
hearing that she was going, sent her, one
five dollars and the other, ten. She had
a most fatiguing journey, speaking eve-
ry night, with the exception of three,
from September 11 to the 30th.
	THE CREMATED remains of Dr. Winslow,
who lately died at Salt Lake, have been re-
ceived and interred at Mt. Aubnrn, accord-
ing to his last will and testament.—"The
Watchman."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	WELLSVILLE, CACHE Co., Oct. 15, '77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We send you a report of our Ninth Annual
meeting:
		TREASURER'S REPORT.
	Donations................................	$51 36
	Quilting...................................	  11 85
	Wheat stored for Zion, 30 bushels.
	Given to the needy...................	  57 10
	Given for Relief Society House,	  26 40
	Cash and store order in treasury... 	    9 65
	Merchandise............................. 	  61 55
	In Cash Mercantile Store..........	  22 50
	In Co-op Relief Store...............	  46 00
	Interest on shares in R. S. Store...	  17 00
	A good spirit prevailed in the meeting.
We are striving to do something for the
cause of Zion and the more united we are
the more good we can do. We were visit-
ed with the grasshoppers this year, but ex-
pect to respond to the counsel of our late
and esteemed President Brigham Young,
and do more in storing up grain another
season. Our sincere prayer is for the pros-
perity of Zion in all her institutions and
our desire is to be co-workers in her enter-
prises. We read the EXPONENT with in-
terest,	LUCY E. HASLAM, Sec'y.
		ELIZABETH MAUGHAN. Treas.

	SPRINGVILLE, Oct. 2nd, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Ever feeling desirous to mingle our
voices, and unite our efforts with our sister
societies, we the Relief Society of Spring-
ville send you these few lines. We are
trying to do all in our power to help the
cause of truth, to minister to the wants of
the poor, and the needy among us, to help
to build Temples, and in our feeble way as-
sist in every good work. The EXPONENT
is ever a welcome messenger among us, and
while reading the many interesting ac-
counts of the various works in home in-
dustries, the silk culture, and other de-
partments, in the different societies, we al-
ways feel to renew our diligence in relation
to every thing towards practically sustain-
ing ourselves; and feel like asking our
Heavenly Father to hasten the day when
the Latter-day Saints are entirely free,
when the last fetters shall be loosed that
bind us to Babylon.
	We remain your sisters in the Gospel,
		MARY E. WHITING, Sec'y.
		MARY BATE, Assistant Sec'y.


[Column 1]

REPORT OF FIRST WARD SPECIAL
MEETING—ASSOCIATION.

CONTINUED.

	Elder Wilford Woodruff: "I feel willing
to answer to the call of the sisters to make
a few remarks on this occasion, for it is a
subject that I feel greatly interested in, be-
cause I feel that it will have a good result.
The Relief Societies have had their growth,
and the Mutual Improvement Associations
have the same experience before them, and
I am satisfied that a great deal of good will
result from these Associations; every per-
son has an influence either for good or evil.
The Relief Societies were organized by Jo-
seph Smith, and a great deal of responsibil-
ity rests upon them. They should include
every mother in Israel. The Young La-
dies Improvement Association should in-
clude every young lady in Israel, and the
Young Men's Improvement Associations
should include every young man in Israel.
There are responsibilities resting upon the
sisters in many things, that it would be im-

[Column 2]

possible for men to accomplish. I was very
much pleased with a few remarks of Sister
Zina's, and I feel to back up the sentiments
she has expressed in regard to dress; the
sister that has got independence of mind
enough to walk these streets in a plain,
modest dress, has got something to be proud
of and certainly the sisters can have some
influence in regard to fashions, and I hope
these improvement associations will have a
great influence. We are not always going
to be supplied by Babylon for Babylon is go-
ing to fall. These associations all through
the northern and southern settlements are
instituting straw-braiding, hat-making, and
many other industries that are very com-
mendable The young have got to take our
places for the old are passing away, and I
pray God to bless every effort for good.
We are going to have a famine, and if I
had half a million of dollars I would buy
up all the wheat I could with it, and store
it away. Elder Woodruff then related his
experience at St. George in effecting a re-
formation among the young. The young
ladies should not have their minds full of
novels and fashions but should begin to feel
the importance of better things. There is
a great work resting upon us temporally
and spiritually. There are millions of dol-
lars in the air that can be brought forth in
silk, and we can make not only what we
want to wear but could export a great deal,
and the streets and spare land should all be
full of mulberry trees. The heavens are
full of inspiration and they are pouring it
out upon the saints. President Young liv-
ed to see a Temple dedicated to God and
he administered in it. He selected the
spot for other temples and set everything
in order in the church. Let us help build
these temples for there are thousands of
people that can not be liberated nntil some
one does the work for them. We cannot
afford to lose our salvation for the things of
this world, and whatever you can do in
these associations will be credited to you
and you will receive the reward. I feel to
say God bless you, and God bless these sis-
ters that are visiting you for they are in-
deed mothers in Israel."
	Mrs. P. Woodruff: I am pleased to see
you gathered together as you are for a good
purpose, and I feel to say to you be diligent,
be faithful, and strive to help, if it is only
in a little degree, towards building the tem-
ples, and may the teachings that we have
received to-day sink deep into your hearts
and do you good. God bless you, Amen.
	Mrs. Zina Williams. I feel that your lit-
tle association here is in a very flourishing
condition, and is doing much good. When
I see the young ladies that attend these as-
sociations and those who do not it reminds
me of going into an orchard; we find some
trees that are filled with verdure, and ap-
pear beautiful to the eye, but when we
come to examine them, there is no fruit on
them, but those who attend these meetings
are like those trees which are filled with
fruit. I pray God to bless us that we may
be bright and shining lights in the kingdom
of heaven.
	Mrs. E. Thomas: I know that this is the
church and kingdom of God, and I know
that the spirit of God is here to-day, and I
feel that your association has improved
very much since its organization, I love
the associations of the young and I ask
God to bless this association and all organi-
zations that are trying to do. good. 
	Mrs. W. East: We cannot be too thank-
ful for the principles of the Gospel, among
which plural marriage is one of the most
glorious. The God that we serve is great
and mighty, and is able to build up or

[Column 3]

throw down. God sees and knows all
things and will reward us according to our
work. May God add his blessing is my
prayer.
	Mrs. Martha Young: In regard to the
fashions, I know that it is the mind and
will of God that we should dress plainly,
and I hope the young ladies will not follow
the fashions of the world. It is necessary
that we should lay up every cent that we
can for building temples, and do all we can
in this kingdom for it is all for our benefit
both here and hereaftee.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney exhorted the sisters to
do all in their power towards the silk busi-
ness and said: "Joseph Smith did a great
work, Brigham Young did a greater for he
had more time and assistance, and the
Twelve will do a still greater work, for the
snow ball gathers strength as it rolls. She
also made other excellent remarks on the
Church Library and other subjects of inter-
est.
	Miss E. R. Snow announced a change in
the management of the Woman's Store on
account of its growth, and stated that it
was not "going under" as some had
thought, but was doing well.
	Elder Joseph Taylor then expressed his
pleasure in meeting with the sisters and
hearing their remarks, and gave some very
excellent instruction in regard to home
manufacture and the duties of women, and
commended the sisters in the silk business,
and in storing up grain.
	Bishop Joseph Warburton endorsed all
that had been said. Made a few remarks
in regard to the temple and prayed God to
bless us.
	President Mrs. Sarah Graham then made
a few closing remarks, after which the
meeting was adjourned.
	AMY ADAMS, Secretary.


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.

	APROPOS OF the reported projected mar-
riage of King Alfonso, of Spain, with one
of the daughters of the Duc de Montpen-
sier, it may be of interest to say something
of the Orleans family. This family now
consists of 29 individuals.
	The eldest is the Duc de Nemours, 63
years old, and who has four children: (1) The
Comte d’Eu, married to the daughter of
Pedro II., Emperor of Brazil, and has one
child. (2) Le Due d’Aleneon, born in 1844,
married to the sister of the Empress of
Austria, and has two children, the Princess
Louise, and the Prince Jean Emmanuel.
(3) The Princess Marguerite, born in 1848,
married to Prince Czartoryski. And (4) The
Princess Blanche, born in 1857.
	The Prince de Joinville, born in 1818, has
two children: (1) The Princess Francoise,
married to her cousin, the Duc de Chartres.
And (2) the Duc de Penthiere, born in 1845.
	The Duc de Aumale has no children.
	The Duc de Montpensier has six children:
(1) The Princess Isabelle, married to the
Comte de Paris. (2) The Princess Amelie.
(3) The Princess Christine. (4) Prince
Ferdinand. (5) The Princess Mercedes, the
future Queen of Spain, born in 1860. And
(6) Prince Antoine.	
	Louis Philippe Comte de Paris, born in
1838, has three children: (1) The Princess
Amelie. (2) Prince Louis Philippe. And
(3) the Princess Helene.
	Robert d’Orleans Duc de Chartres, has four
children: (1) The Princess Marie. (2) Prince
Robert. (3) Prince Henri. And (4) the
Princess Marguerite.
	There is besides the Princess Clementine,
Duchess of Saxe Coburg Gotha, born in
1817.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		83


THROUGH THE STORM.

O! winter will thou never go?
My heart kept sighing sad and low.
I thought of that home far away,
Where loved ones waited day by day
For tidings that my willing feet,
Were coming, coming, true and fleet.

Yet ever, while mine eager eyes,
Appealing searched the heavenly skies;
Fell down the softly whispering snow,
So fair, yet sternly answering no.
No gleam of blue shone overhead,
But falling flakes and sky of lead.

While still the spring days came and went,
And I imprisoned, ill-content,
Beside my casement watched the snow,
Heart-hungry, sighing still to go;
Gleaning no hope from out the skies;
A lark's song! sweet and clear did rise.

No plaintive note, but glad and high,
As e'en in sunshine filled the sky.
I could not see the bonny bird,
But still the promise sweet I heart,
Though yet the flakes fell thick and fast;
Winter is broken o'er at last.

Since then, though trials 'round me close,
My heart the sweet remembrance holds.
Though I the end may not discern,
My soul in trust to Him doth turn
Who token sent, my heart to warm;
Of light and joy above the storm.
				AGUSTA JOYCE CHROCHEROM.


[Column 1]
	CELESTIAL MARRIAGE, OPENING A
				NEW ERA.

	THOUGHTS AND REFLECTIONS SUGGESTED
ON READING AN EDITORIAL IN A LATE
EXPONENT.

	Inasmuch as the women of Utah have
an organ through which they can speak
their feelings to each other and the world,
I feel it a duty incumbent on me to use
that channel to express my feelings to the
mothers and daughters of Zion, and bear a
testimony to those outside. I was born and
brought up in Salt Lake City, and am proud
to say also that I was born in the Celestial
Order of Marriage. I am quite young yet
in years, as well as in the knowledge of
the true Gospel, for I have not always
made my religion a subject of thought or
study; but thank God my eyes have at
last been opened to an understanding of the
privileges and blessings I enjoy in being
numbered among the Saints of these last
days. I know some of the feelings of my
young sisters. We are visited here by
many outsiders who scorn and ridicule
those who believe in and practice plural
marriage, and this has an affect, in a meas-
ure on the rising generation who are not
fairly established in principle; more because
of the pride of the world inherent in their
minds; but neither the unbelievers nor the
young sisters themselves appear to look for-
ward understandingly to the future or eter-
nal results of their acts in this life and the
reference they have to a hereafter.
	I have headed this article Celestial Mar-
riage and the opening of a new era, per-
haps it may be a deep subject for a young
woman to discuss, but I wish to say to all
who read this that I want Eternal Life, and
to go back to my heavenly Father and
Mother; can I obtain it by living up to the
principles revealed from heaven, principles
practiced by those who hold the keys of the
priesthood of God? Yes, I read in the book
of 'Doctrine and Covenants' that there are
three heavens, and no man or woman can
obtain the highest glory without keeping
the Celestial law of God, and the law of
the Patriarchial order of Marriage.
	Now my young sisters in Zion, would it 
not be better to obey this law and enjoy a

[Column 2]
Celestial glory than to reject it for any-
thing frivolous, and lose the opportunity of
exaltation? I know it would; what we sow
we will reap, if it be good seed, the fruit
will be of superior excellence, if sin and
evil, weeds thorns and thistles. God prom-
ised Abraham blessings which reached into
the endless ages of eternity, through the
principles of the Patriarchial Order of Mar-
riage. I am willing to abide this law be-
cause I want similar blessings. The Lord
says if we do not obey that law we cannot
partake the blessings of the new and ever-
lasting covenant. Congress says if we do
obey it, we shall be subject to their condem-
nation. Very well, we'll trust in God who
has said "fear not him who can only de-
stroy the body but fear him who can de-
stroy both soul and body; the foolish nation
may trust in Congress and we will see even-
tually which is the better part. The moves
Congress has been making seem to me to
have reference to John the Revelator's vis-
ion of "opening the seals." It is evident
to every faithful daughter in Zion, who has
the spirit of God, that great events are
about to transpire. Why was our beloved
and lamented leader, President Brigham
Young, moved upon to go to work and or-
ganize anew the Stakes of Zion? Because
of the events which await Zion and Baby-
lon.
	The revelations of God manifest to us all
who have the spirit of God in our hearts
that there is a great change at our doors; all
Israel feel it, earth and heaven and all the
powers of darkness feel it, and the wicked
are stirred up furiously against the Lord's 
anointed. The spirit of revelation is [-]e[-]t
here in St. George where the Holy Temple
has been ereeted; the spirits of the dead,
anxious and waiting, have been hovering
over those who preside and labor in that
holy sanctuary here, until Apostle Wood-
ruff, and others have been constrained by
the spirit of God, to officiate for their de-
parted friends, and those noble persons to
whom they have been directed by the
guidance and promptings of these heavenly
influences, in the sacred ordinances which
pertain to the house of the Lord. These
are powerful testimonies to those who re-
ceive them and clearly prove the manner in
which we become saviors upon Mt. Zion.
Not only are men favored with these great
and sacred blessings but women also are
saviors of women. There is no inequality
even in ministering for the dead. Woman
acts in her sphere as man in his. There-
fore is man not without the woman, nor the
woman without the man in the Lord. The
work of performing the ceremonies requires
as much labor and falls with as much digni-
ty upon woman as man. Therein is the
goodness of our Father to His daughters
made manifest. Holy women now minis-
ter in the Temple of God.
	The spirit of God is resting upon the peo-
ple.  Are not these events opening a new
era to us? Can our enemies hinder these
great and mighty events? They cannot.
Then arise! ye daughters of Zion, and mag-
nify your callings, and realize your bless-
ings, privileges and power before the Lord;
take hold and carry out the counsels of the
prophets and apostles, by magnifying your
positions as mothers and daughters of Zion.
	When you hear a man or woman, unbe-
liever or Mormon, ridicule Celestial Marriage
or any of the revelations of God, turn from
them, and let us feel and realize that we are
the true daughters of Zion. God is with us,
we should feel this in our hearts; Jesus has
died for us, can we do more?
	If by any act of ours, by obeying any
commandment or principle revealed to us

[Column 3]
we can be exalted in the Celestial kingdom
of God with our fathers, mothers, brothers,
sisters, husbands and children, receiving a
fulness of glory—then "let the heathen rage
and the people imagine vain things!” Let
the prophets, apostles and saints have faith
in God and trust in Him. Those who enter
into these holy covenants must trust in God
as did the Hebrews and the prophet Daniel;
and as God delivered them, so will he de-
liver His Anointed in the last days.
	That the God of heaven and the saints
may sustain the channel through which we
can speak, is the prayer of your young sis-
ter.							ESTHER.
	Oct. 10, 1877.


THE GRAVE OF GRAY, THE POET.—The
ride of five miles from Windsor to Stoke
Pogis is lovely, through shaded English
lanes and sweet-smelling hedgerows and
rural gardens. We did not go to the vil-
lage, for that was not our objective point; it
was at the entrance to the churchyard we
stopped—the church-yard that contains the
mortal remains of Thomas Gray, the one
which inspired his immortal "elegy," writ-
ten in sight of it, if not in it. Beside the
slab which marks the last resting-place of
the poet is one which covers the remains
of his mother, and it is somewhat singular
that, while the latter is overrun with ivy,
that of the poet is quite bare; perhaps van-
dals have taken it away. It is a spot where
a poet, one would think, might find rest—so
sweet, so quiet, so peaceful, the religious
little church, like a stone sentinel, keeping
guard, and holding it in perfect security.
How full of heart-memories this wonderful
England is! Whichever way you turn you
seem to be met by the ghosts of buried
friends, to whom you stretch out your arms
and plead for that closer companionship—
that dear relationship which, crossing the
sea, it seemed, should have yielded you.—
Jennie June.


FOOD AND SUNSHINE.—The want of prop-
er food and the sunshine is the cause of
three-fourths of the nervous ailments of
women. Over work is not the cause. Work
and hard work too, is the lot of every wo-
man who has a right to look upon her life
with complacence, and she would be pre-
pared for it by nature’s kindly efficiency, if
food, sunlight and exercise were duly al-
lowed their effect. If women gave their
bodies the same care that they give their
dress, they would come up to the standard
of their work. They ought to be nearly as
strong as men—with a finer and more sup-
ple strength, it is true; but the difference
should not be the immense disparagement
to women that it is. What they want is
muscle, not fat, on their meagre limbs,
which ought to be slender, graceful, arid
full of nerve as those of an Arab courser.
Perhaps in finding roundness of figure and
clearness of complexion they find strength,
and who shall say these things do not lie to-
gether. Sunshine and air ripen and fresh-
en the cheeks of women as they do fruits
in orchards. If Leonetta will, like English
women, spend four or five hours a day in
the open air, in such exercise as she can
bear, she will find her spirits and color re-
vive as brightly as she can wish.


A SWEETHEART is called a turtle-dove,
so a coquette must be a mock-turtle-dove.
	NEVER court the favor of the rich by
flattering either their vanities or their
vices.


84		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
l.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 1, 1877.


[Column 1]

THE QUESTION OF THE TIME.

	This is the season when the sisters should be
all of them, most earnest and energetic in their
calling in Relief Societies and all such organ-
izations as compose and make up the work
done by women here at home. It is now late
enough to prepare for winter, and all those
whose hearts overflow with kind and benevo-
lent feelings, should remember the cold
weather is coming, when the poor and sick re-
quire much more attention than when the
pleasant sunshine warms them and gives them
fresh life and activity; they need more cloth-
ing; they need fires to warm them; they need
many little comforts that in summer time they
can do without.
	This is legitimate work of Bishops and Re-
lief Societies. (We would ask the brethren to
excuse us for mentioning Bishops, but the
work of benevolence in these matters is so
united between the two, that it is almost im-
possible to avoid mentioning Bishops in that
connection.) There are no poor houses in
Utah and we do not want any. The regularity
of the institutions, on all these matters, does
away with the necessity of any place of that
character.
	In the world it is different; and there are
very many persons in the United States (which
has a Constitution that surpasses all others
in its liberality and in most particulars, were
it carried out according to its genius and spirit)
who live for years in constant dread of some
incidental circumstance or misfortune over-
taking them, and they will eventually be
obliged to go to the POOR HOUSE. Such is not
the case with the Latter-day Saints. God in
His Infinite Wisdom has provided a better
system of government for His chosen people.
	The Lord has blest the Saints in the valleys
of the mountains with the good things of this
life beyond their most sanguine anticipations.
It is almost incredible how much has been
done, and how adverse have been the circum-
stances for such great achievements. What
other people, with so few facilities, would have
persevered under the accumulation of difficul-
ties the Saints have encountered in building
up Utah Territory. The one great enterprise
of emigrating thousands of people from for-
eign countries, year by year, is a most striking
specimen of the noble characteristics of the
Mormon people. And allow us here to observe,
that this will yet be considered as worthy of
being chronicled in the annals of the nation.
These same foreigners, many of them unedu-
cated, are nevertheless shrewd and practical;
they have bone and sinew, and they not only
help to strengthen and enlarge the borders of
the land of Zion, but the United States itself
becomes more powerful, not only in the num-
ber of its inhabitants, but from the resources

[Column 2]

brought to bear through their labors, upon the
revenue of the country.
	This work of emigration brings with it cer-
tain duties and responsibilities for women as
well as men: It falls chiefly upon Bishops
and officers of Relief Societies. They must
attend to the poor and the sick. Thus are wo-
men doing their part of the work of redeeming
the nations temporally, and assisting in the
gathering of Zion. This brings forcibly home
the truth of the remark, that it is easier to be a
missionary abroad than a home missionary.
To devise labor and initiate men and women
into the customs of a new country is not a de-
sirable thing. Yet this must be done, and wo-
men must take their share of this home mis-
sion. And it seems clearer every day that the
mission of storing grain should be given to
the women of Zion.
	It is only one of the labors which help to
make up the sum total of the benevolent work
which pertains to Relief Societies. Bread is
the staff of life, and if there was always an
abundance of other things, we think Mormon
women would scarcely be so unsophisticated as
one of the Queens of France, who, when she
was told her subjects wanted bread, asked her
minister why he did not give them cake.
	The heart or soul enlarges through its
sympathies. The more benevolent people are
the more still they desire to be; it is one of
those things that brings its own reward in
the blessings received as well as imparted.
The Savior said, "In blessing ye are blessed:"
and "Inasmuch as ye did it unto the least of
these my children, ye have done it unto me."
	Charity towards all God's suffering creatures
is commendable. And although it is some-
times said there is too much given in charity,
yet it is not possible always to judge persons
correctly, because there are, throughout the
world, many different standards of goodness,
and how can one determine another's demer-
its, not having known if there were extenuat-
ing circnmstances. It is necessary all should
be charitable: and it were better to be duped
and deceived many times, than to turn a deaf
ear to the cries of one person really needy.


[For the EXPONENT.
	GIRLS, KEEP GOOD COMPANY.

	Girls make it a point of your every day life
to choose your companions.
	It matters not how poor and uneducated you
may be, if you will, you may always be choice
of your associates. The Scriptures tell us to
"shun the very appearance of evil." Not that
to appear good, or true, or innocent is to make
one so, yet where persons are not known they
are, certainly, very generally judged by those
with whom they are in the habit of associat-
ing. Sometimes innocent persons are shun-
ned, and even condemned, through evil asso-
ciations. Really innocent persons have fre-
quently been in this way misrepresented and
maligned, and having gained through this
means a bad reputation, have felt respect was no
longer worth struggling for, and perhaps, be-
ing of a weak and vacillating nature, have
succumbed to the calumny heaped upon them,
and taken the downward course until it was
too late to retract.
	Girls, if you would have an unsullied name;
an irreproachable life, beware of chance ac-
quaintances. Better, far better, to be slow in
making friends, than to be too free to accept
proffers of confidence from those whose char-
acters are to you unknown.
	Be sure and confide in your mother; you will
never have cause to regret it. Take no heed


of your young friends who laugh at yonr prud-
ish ideas of propriety. Extremes are certainly
to be avoided in most instances, but in matters
of this nature you can scarcely be too precise.
You must be independent enough to ward oft
any little sarcasms from those who sneer about
mama's apron-strings, etc. Remember, were
any misteps to plunge you into difficulty
these false friends would be the last to assist
you in retracing your way; and perchance be
among the first to reproach you with wither-
ing sneers and humiliation.
	It is the duty of every young lady, a most
sacred duty, to guard her good name, to let
her deportment and her conversation be strict-
ly modest and decorous. Never let it be said,
as we frequently hear it remarked, "She is
good-hearted, generous and kind, but rough
and coarse in her manner and conversation."
There is no excuse for such conduct in the
young ladies of Utah, for the Associations
formed for mutual improvement in all things
pertaining to the welfare and development of
their hearts, minds and manners, as well as
other institutions, Schools, Sabbath Schoo[-]s
and Literary Societies, and also the associa-
tion with good and true women as well as
men, not only teach but guide them if they
will heed these things, in the path of duty
and principle. And it is almost invariably the
case that those who are willing to be obedient
to parents and instructors of youth, and espe-
cially if they are respectful to the aged, make
noble women, patterns in society, exemplary,
modest, and if not polished and graceful, are at
least courteous in manner, whole-souled, gen-
uine and trustworthy in all the social relations
of life.
								THYRA.
	Oct. 25, 1877.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	
	THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY.—For all
kinds of home-made socks and stockings, call
at Mrs. H. E. Strickland's. opposite 13th Ward
Meat Market, on Second South Street. All
orders filled promptly. Mrs. Strickland also
carries on dress-making in the same establish-
ment.
	AS ANOTHER tribute to the memory of our
late President, Brigham Young, some of our
citizens have succeeded in getting up a bust
of President Young in stone work, which is
certainly correct in feature, though at first
sight does not strike you as forcibly as after a 
closer observation. The bust is an enterprise
of Messrs. W. Fuller & Co., and we understand
the intention of the company is to thoroughly
canvass the Territory.
	DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON has returned to
this city, and located here for the purpose of
practising her profession. She now offers her
services as physician, surgeon and accoucheur,
to the ladies of Salt Lake City and vicinity,
and begs to assure those who may favor her
with their patronage, that having successfully
practised for the last fifteen years, and having
had the benefit of experience in Medical Insti-
tutions in Paris and London, feels herself
thoroughly qualified to benefit her sisters in
Zion. Mrs. Ferguson is also a teacher of music
and languages.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Knowing the interest the sisters feel in the
various settlements of Utah Territory, in the
home missionary work of some of the mothers
in Israel, we thought a few items of our recent
visit to Bear Lake Valley would not be un-


interesting to the many readers of our woman's
paper. We left Salt Lake City August 16, on
the Utah Central, bound for Paris, by way of
the Utah Northern from Ogden. There had
been a very severe storm north, that had in-
jured the Northern road so badly that we were
very long upon the way. The brethren had to
work almost constantly to make the road pass-
able for the train. We staid in Logan two
days, and spent the time with the Societies,
and in visiting the sick. We visited Sister
Benson, who was very ill at that time and has
since died. She seemed very much pleased to
see us, and we were glad to have the opportu-
nity of calling on her in her last illness.
	From Logan we went on to Franklin, arriving
there at one o'clock at night. Elder George
Spencer met us there and took us over to Paris.
	There we were favored by being present at
the re-organization of that Stake of Zion, that
being the last county in the Territory to be at-
tended to, completing the re-organization of
the entire Territory. There were present of
the Quorum of the Twelve, Elders John Taylor,
Lorenzo Snow, Franklin D. Richards, Albert
Carrington, also Charles C. Rich of that vi-
cinity. There was much good instruction giv-
en, and the Spirit of God rested upon all who
spoke. President Budge made some inquiries
in regard to our visit there, and we told him
our time was at the disposal of the sisters, and,
accordingly, previous to the meeting being dis-
missed, he gave out the following appoint-
ments: On Tuesday we were to hold a general
meeting with the Relief and Retrenchment
Societies at Bloomington, Wednesday at St.
Charles, Thursday at Paris, and Friday at
Montpelier. We filled all these appointments
except the last. On Wednesday the telegram
reached us of the President's death and on
Friday morning we started for home to reach
here in time for the funeral.
	At Bloomington the Bishop and other breth-
ren were present, and manifested an excellent
feeling in aiding and encouraging the sisters.
The meeting was presided over by Mrs. Green-
halch, president of the Relief Society. The
Society seemed in a prosperous condition con-
sidering the many disadvantages under which 
the people labor in isolated settlements. At
St. Charles our meeting was also well attended,
some of the brethren being present and speak-
ing words of encouragement. Mrs. Laker,
President of the Relief Society, took charge of
the meeting, and the sisters seemed earnest
and anxious in the work in which we have en-
listed. At Paris Mrs. Julia Lindsay presided
at the meeting, which was also a general one,
and a rather solemn one, as we had heard of
the death of our beloved President and Pro-
phet. The brethren had already left for Salt
Lake City.
	Everywhere, whether in public speaking or
private conversation, we talked of the Home
Industries, especially the Silk-culture, and
also the storing of grain. We encouraged the
sisters to persevere and carry out their organ-
izations according to counsel given from time
to time.
		Respectfully, your sisters, &c.,
						PHEBE WOODRUFF,
						MARY I. HORNE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

﻿	Died in Wellsville, Cache Co., Oct. 1st, 1877,
Seline, beloved wife of Joseph S. Redford, and
daughter of James and Margaret Dinsdale.
Deceased was born June 9th, 1852, at Bradford,
Yorkshire, England. After her arrival in the
valley she resided in Ogden two years, since


which time she has lived in Wellsville. She
suffered a most agonizing death during her ac-
couchement, after having endured the most in-
tense pain for forty hours. Medical aid was
summoned and all was done that was possible
under the circumstances, but all to no avail.
She leaves a husband and four young children
to mourn her loss; the eldest but seven years
old. She was a good wife, a loving mother,
and a faithful saint, and was beloved and es-
teemed by all who knew her, and is sincerely
mourned by a large circle of friends and ac-
quaintances who followed her to her last rest-
ing place, expressing sympathy and affection.
She was a useful member of the Relief Socie-
ty. Thus has passed away another young and
promising wife and mother, to await the morn-
ing of the First Resurrection.
	[Utah papers please copy; also Millennial
Star.]
			ELLEN WHITON,
				President Relief Society.


[Column 1]

DISCOURSE
BY
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG,
DELIVERED
In the Tabernacle, Ogden, at a Meeting of the
Relief Societies of Weber County,
July 19th, 1877.

REPORTED BY JAMES TAYLOR.

	I expected to attend a meeting of the Relief
Societies of this Stake of Zion to hear reports,
and comments from the Presidency, the Secre-
taries, and from those that they would call
upon to speak. I learn from the President
that the calculation was to invite the brethren
to come here and talk to them, instead of their
talking to us, and to give them instructions,
point out their duties, and direct them with
regard to their future course of life. This we
are willing to do on conditions. Were I to
ask you if you are willing to comply with those
conditions, I have no doubt but what you
would at once answer me in the affirmative,
and believe that you would carry out the de-
claration of your own voices, for this would be
your mind, The question is, will you carry
out our instructions? We leave each and every
one to determine that by their future lives.
We hope that the people will hearken, and by
their acts respond to our requests.
	The people called Latter-day Saints say that
they wish to know and understand how to or-
der their lives before Him whom we serve and
acknowledge as our Father and our God. If I
were to give you my own feelings with regard
to instructions, many of you would perhaps
consider it egotism; still, I take the liberty of
saying to these my sisters, if the counsel and
instruction that your unworthy servant has
given to the inhabitants of the earth had been
obeyed and carried out, I have taught them
enough to have saved the nations of the earth,
and to have made every one of them to be
Latter-day Saints.
	We are professedly Saints. What is the dif-
ference between a Saint of God and an angel
of God? One is clothed upon with mortality,
the other has passed through mortality,
the other has passed through mortality and
has received the celestial glory of our Heavenly
Father, and is free from the contaminating in-
fluences of sin that we have to contend with.
This is the difference. We ask the question,
can mortal beings live so that they are worthy
of the society of angels? I can answer the
question for myself—I  believe that they can;
I am sure that they can. But in doing this,

[Column 2]

they must subdue the sin that is within them-
selves, correct every influence that arises with-
in their own hearts that is opposed to the sanc-
tifying influences of the grace of God, and
purify themselves by their faith and by their
conduct so that they are worthy. Then they
are prepared for the society of angels. To be
Saints indeed, requires every wrong influence
that is within them, as individuals, to be sub-
dued, until every evil desire is eradicated, and
every feeling of their hearts is brought into
entire subjection to the will of Christ. Now
you all believe this just as much as I do.
	The first thing I am going to introduce to
my sisters is the condition of this community.
Since I have come into this place I understand
that you have a great deal of sickness here.
"It is very warm weather," one says. "A
great deal of sickness," says another. I want
to say to you that warm weather is very healthy
weather. And I can say still further, with re-
gard to our climate, a dry climate is a healthy
climate, much more so than where a damp mi-
asma arises from swamps and decayed mate-
rials, which is so frequently the case in low
lands, especially in the Mississippi Valley, but
not so on this western slope. Now I want you
to understand what I am talking to you—this
weather is beautiful weather to enjoy health.
	(To be continued.)


[For the EXPONENT.
COMMON SENSE TALK WITH THE
				GIRLS.

	I sometimes wonder if the young ladies who
have enrolled themselves as Retrenchment
girls, ever stop and reflect how many dollars
PER ANNUM are spent in various things: we
will say dress goods, for instance, which are
imported, when our home-made goods compare
favorably with eastern fabrics, and usually
wear better.
	At present we often wear things, that if they
were home-made, we would not be seen in.
	Now let us make a rough estimate of how
many dollars we sisters who belong to these
Associations could keep at home, making busi-
ness for our fathers and brothers, and some-
times ourselves, if we followed out practically
that which we profess to sustain. Usually
when we buy, we spend about three or more
dollars for any kind of a dress, except calico,
and say from five to ten for a cloak or shawl
for winter. We will say there are twenty So-
cieties in this city, with at least twenty-five
members in each; if these two articles alone
were home-made, and each member made a
point of wearing them, just see what a nice,
snug little sum would be circulating in our
own community; and then if all the Relief
Societies did the same, don't you think it
would tell? And would not our merchants al-
ways have home-made goods on hand? Of
course they would. And don't you think that
Brother Culter at the Home Commission Store,
and all those who are laboring to build up
Zion, would look smiling, and feel better?
Certainly they would. And if we want to
make our fathers, husbands, brothers or friends
a present, and it was some home-made arti-
cle, don't you think they would prize it all the
more? Of course they would; if they did not
they have not got the good sense I give them
credit for, and if they hav'n't, don't give them
any present; that's my advice to you.
	Girls, let us try and stem the current just a
little, and not destroy and pull down, but seek
to strengthen and build up.
						ONE OF THE GIRLS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

			ST. GEORGE, October, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I would like to tell you of our many good
and faithful sisters here in St. George. The
new organization of the Church has caused
many changes at this place. Our Relief
Societies are now in a most excellent condi-
tion for improvement; instead of one as
formerly, we now have four, one in each of
the four wards of our beautiful city, (to me
it is very beautiful.) Members of Socie-
ties of each of the wards, meet the first
Thursday in every month; they talk to each
other and have interesting meetings which
are growing better and more instructive
each time we meet; and I look forward to
the time when many will testify to the
blessing these meetings have been; certain-
ly our hearts are more united; we love each
other more than we ever did. While per-
forming our duties, or wherever we meet,
there is a thrill of pleasure experienced
that makes us feel we are meeting a Sister
and a friend. I have attributed this love in
our hearts in a great degree to our associa-
tions in our beautiful Temple, for every-
thing we do there is a "labor of love,", and
if we labor for love, love must be in our
hearts, and our spirits are genial, pliable
and full of kindness. On the 17th of Sep-
tember wa had a good time, a special meet-
ing of the sisters was called by our Presi-
dent J. T. D. McAllister. Mrs. M. I. Horne
met with us and gave us some valuable in-
struction, and we felt to bless her, and
thank God for the privilege of seeing her
and hearing her voice. "We are now wait-
ing for our books "The Women of Mormon-
dom" and hope the coming winter to en-
joy the reading of them in our meetings.
	We are expecting to see a great throng
come to the Temple to receive blessings for
themselves and for their dead this coming
season. I feel pleasure in saying that we as
a people in St. George, discard the foolish
fashions of the day and have set our faces
against them; and I am glad to think that
no extreme of fashions such as are worn by
the "beaumonde," are allowed to go into
the Temple, thanks to our beloved Presi-
dent who feels that Babylonish fashions
should not be admitted in so holy a place as
the Temple of God. We have a few among us
who love these things, and we do hope and 
pray that our sisters who come here will
leave their fashions at home; and if they
appreciate the privilege as I do they will
not mind traveling a few miles for the op-
portunity of receiving blessings in the
House of the Lord. I never did anything
that was so delightful to me as my daily
labors in the Temple. The peace of God is
there and all who go there can testify to
the same. The people here in Dixie have
had "hard times," and have felt isolated
and almost forgotten, but our Father has
given us a rich reward. When called to
come to the South in 1861, none of us im-
agined that our obedience to the call and
our faithfulness would be the means of
making us "saviors on Mount Zion." We
feel we are a blessed people, I have thank-
ed God for my home in St. George many
times; for the peace we have had here, the
freedom we have enjoyed in having no
fears of molestation from the enemies of
this Church. But to have a Temple to work
in, and be counted worthy of working
there, is of so much value to me, that I feel
I never can be thankful enough or do
enough to prove my gratitude to my Fath-
er in heaven for His goodness to me. I

[Column 2]
have no desire on earth but for good, and I
pray God to bless you in your faithful la-
bors as well as all the laborers in our Fath-
er's Kingdom.
							L. S. C.

		ROME, GEORGIA, Oct. 11th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I wish to address a few words to you, as a
sister in the everlasting Gospel. I am still
a true believer of the same Gospel that I
have been converted to through Brother
Morgan's preaching. I have been hoping
to see the day when I could leave Babylon;
and I am still in hopes, and think that the
Lord will open up the way, but the pros-
pects for immigration are very gloomy as
yet; the brethren have not been successful
in selling their land so far, it seems that
they can't do much towards emigrating
at this time, in consequence of being poor
and not being able to do anything much for 
themselves. There are several of the
brethren who cannot help themselves to
emigrate, if they can't sell their land.
There is a vast multitude of peoble in our
midst who have been plunged into great
poverty, in consequence of the late war,
and my father and family are among that
unfortunate number. They have only the
sale of their land to depend upon, and find
no sale for it. I tell my parents that I do
not think that I can stay here; I do not
think I will have to remain a great while,
or at least that is my feeling now; and as it
is my greatest desire to gather with the
saints in Zion. I do earnestly hope that I
may be able to accomplish my desire, and I 
feel that the Lord will render his aid unto
me.
	I remain as ever your sister in the true
and everlasting Gospel,
				MISS JOAN C. MANNING.


[For the EXPONENT.
MORMONISM.

	Mormonism, so called, is truly THE prob-
lem of the nineteenth century; the sphinx
of modern times! Even to the initiated it
is a marvel, and a wonder; a daily problem
for their study and solution; they measure
the future by the past, and by that mode
their faith is renewed and fed, and one of
their daily testimonies is that all who live
to its principles are fitted for the day, and
the hour, and the place to which they may
be called, realizing for themselves the Scrip-
ture, "As thy day, thy strength shall be."
Yes, indeed, those who are determined to
live their religion know that Hand leads
and guides them through every intricate
pathway, carries them over the "deep wa-
ters" in a marvellous way, so that only by a
look back can they realize the mighty help
they have had—the unseen, the unsleeping
influence that has been around them in the
hour of need—and in the joy and gratitude
of their hearts, they can only exclaim with
one of old, "My Lord, and my God!" Trials,
struggles every Saint must have, for this is
the Lord's school, and we must have lessons
that we may come out fitted for niches in
the Temple of our God in the grand here-
after! Without trials and the experience
acquired by them, life is but a child's coral
and tells the bitter and the sweet must be
blended to complete the character of a Lat-
ter-day Saint. I ever desire for my friend
and associate one who has graduated in the
school of trial and adversity, for in such I
find matter for mind, and mind for matter.
Gold without alloy will not stand the wear


and tear of every day life—I own to liking
a little ALLOY—for it too highly refined, or
too perfect they are unfit for daily use; the
law of our planet is imperfection, combined
with all that is grand, great and beautiful,
bearing on every part of it the impress of
Deity; and the word “good” stamped upon
it as positive, by the voice and signet ring
of the Almighty. We have the power to
choose the good and reject the evil; we
stand in the dignity of a free and responsi-
ble being, and if we possess wisdom, we
shall know how to choose, and that which
will be for our good.
Freedom increases responsibility in a
mighty ratio, and we shall need cultivation,
understanding and wisdom, that we may
use the God-given gift as becometh candi-
dates for celestial worlds. Where much is
given much is required—this is simply
cause and effect, which blended is an eter-
nal principle.
	A quarter of a century has passed since I
first embraced the Latter-day work, and it
has ever filled my soul; the hard part is to
live up to what I profess and love. The
world think we are a low, degraded people;
how egregious is their mistake! It takes a
high and noble being, generous, unselfish,
enduring, self-sacrificing, to make a Latter-
day Saint; and our principles are where
perfection comes in, for they are of God,
and no more need be said. The voice of
the worldling is as dust on the balance—
they know nothing of us, and it is very few
that will be told. If they would investi-
gate, there are many candid souls that
would at any rate put their finger on their
lip, and be silent, if nothing more.
			(To be continued.)


For the EXPONENT.
		OUR BOYS AND GIRLS.

		PRACTICAL HOME EDUCATION. 

	The necessity of young ladies being edu-
cated in household departments, has been
so long and so thoroughly ventilated, that
it is now a well established and almost uni-
versally acknowledged fact, that every girl
should learn to be a good cook and house-
keeper.
	And what about the boys? I will an-
swer, that in my opinion, every boy should
also be taught enough about housework,
that he may always know how to make him-
self useful about home. And to under-
stand the true dignity of labor so well, that
he would be more ashamed to sit idly watch-
ing his mother and sisters trudge about
hour after hour, than to be found assisting
in the household duties which are performed
for his comfort as well as theirs.

	THE BOY THAT DESERVED THE PRIZE.

	Last Twenty-fourth of July, after the
cIose of the Sabbath School Jubilee at the
Tabernacle, the people of the Twentieth
Ward had an old-fashioned entertainment
at their school house. Here, prizes were
distributed, among the young folks under
certain ages, for superiority in different ac-
complishments. Among other things of
interest, one of the most pleasing items was
that a young gentleman obtained a hand-
some prize for the best loaf of bread. This
little point is not so important in itself as
were the circumstances which led to it.
After being occupied with outdoor work for
a portion of the day, our young gentleman
heard his sister remark that she must make
and bake two batches of bread—one for the
amily and one to take to the schoolhouse.


[Column 1]

The kind-hearted brother knew that their
mother was too feeble to help with the
work, and that sometimes his sister had
more to do than she could well attend to.
He knew, too, that he could make good
bread, thanks to his sensible mother. So
he offered to make the bread for home use,
while his sister should make the other.
	Although it is always commendable to
take great care in things of so much im-
portance as bread making, it sometimes oc-
curs that a little extra painstaking proves a
little too much, and renders the work not
quite so satisfactory in the end. And so it
proved with the loaves in question. The
bread which the boy made and attended to
the baking of, came out of the oven a little
better than his sister's. And by the moth-
er's suggestion, the better loaf was taken
to the schoolhouse, where, among a goodly
number of fresh, light loaves, it fairly won
the first prize.
	Will not all my young gentlemen friends
agree with me, that the thoughtful, practi-
cal boy of whom I have been writing, de-
served a prize? I know the ladies will.
		WHY HE DID NOT MARRY HER. 
	We all know the story of the young man,
who, upon visiting his lady-love, found her
in the parlor, fashionably attired, playing
and singing, "Who will care for mother
now!"  And how, at the same time he acci-
dentally discovered that dear mother was
down in the kitchen, sweltering over the
cook stove, caring for herself and also the
rest of the family. And how, for this
cause, he put away all tender thoughts of
the young lady, determining to marry one
of a more practically consistent nature.
But I can tell a better story than the fore-
going. I say better, because my story is
possessed of as good a moral, with a more
pleasant termination.
		"LET ME DO IT, MOTHER."
	A young man had declared love to a
lady and asked her to be his wife. She
hesitated, and he allowed her her own time
to consider the matter, before giving a de-
cided answer. One evening, while yet her
mind was unsettled, she had occasion to
call upon an aged relative, who resided in
the family of which our hero was a mem-
ber. As she approached the door, a sudden
impulse caused her to pause. He might be
at home, she thought, and she might en-
counter him. And seeing her there, he
would probably imagine she called on pur-
pose to see him. She was sure she did not
care much for him, and these thoughts ren-
dered her quite uneasy. While she stood
upon the doorstep thus meditating, she
heard the oven door of the cook stove open,
then the rustle of a paper, as if it were
thrown upon the table; then a firm, light
step and the voice of her admirer saying in
a gentle way, "Let me do it, mother" Then
she knocked, and was admitted just in time
to see the gentleman taking some pies from
the oven, instead of continuing his reading
while his tired mother waited upon herself.
This little circumstance aided the young
lady in concluding what answer to make to
the all-important question. She soon after-
wards married the same gentleman, who, I
am informed, makes an excellent husband
and father.
		GOOD CITIZENS.
	Far be it for me to advocate the practice
of boys being kept choring about the house,
until they have no ability nor disposition to
follow in other pursuits, more common to
the masculine portion of society; or of

[Column 2]

husbands staying at home to mind the ba-
bies, while their wives are out lecturing,
or entertaining the public in some other
way.
	But as I have remarked before, let the
boys learn enough about household duties,
that under any circumstances they may not
feel themselves ignoramuses in those prac-
tical arts. By having some understanding
of woman's work, a man can better appre-
ciate her and it. He will contrive more
conveniences for her in her home sphere, if
he is brought to realize their advantages.
Good sons, husbands and fathers are sure
to be good citizens. The man who is gen-
erous, obliging and helpful about home, will
make a better Statesman, General or Presi-
dent than the one who is not.
	Much is said about training our girls to
become good wives and mothers; let us
also reflect and talk about training our boys
to become good husbands and fathers. Let
us remember that the mother may will
what kind of a man her boy shall make,
and have it so. True, the father's example
is either a great help or hindrance in the
rearing of children; but the mother's teach-
ing has the supremacy.
	LULA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		87


[For the EXPONENT.
RAMBLING THOUGHTS.

BY MAY MAPLE.

	In thinking of the vast number of fallen
women that abound in nearly every city of
the world, and their miserable, miserable
lives, it must occur to a person that these
poor, degraded creatures who throng the
thoroughfares of the larger cities, were
once as pure, innocent and unsullied as the
babe which we see sleeping in its cradle;
and alas! Now how terrible, how great the
change! It is evident that they all have
had fathers, mothers, sisters and brothers,
perhaps have once been tenderly nurtured,
loved and cared for; and I never see one
pass on the street without thinking, "Whose
sister is she, I wonder; whose home has
been blighted by the encroachments of that
serpent in disguise—the betrayer of inno-
cence?" And then I think, Suppose my
sister was like this creature? It is thus that
I realize more fully, how deplorable to be an
outcast and forsaken! But there are a great
many persons who do not give the matter
sufficient thought; who do not bring it home
to themselves, or their own. They seem to
accept it as a matter of course. It does not
excite much pity or feeling, for the reason
that it is so common, so VERY common.
	And you may perhaps ask: "What has
caused the fall? What has transformed
these once innocent girls into what they are
now?" Numerous and different things.
Slowly, but none the less surely, they trav-
eled the road to ruin. They perhaps were
influenced by sophistries they could not
comprehend, and almost before they were
aware of it they had gone so far on the road
to ruin, they had not the heroism to retreat.
One cause of many girls being led astray is
vanity, or love of dress, of finery, some-
thing to adorn the person. At one time
women dressed with a view to comfort—
now with a view to display. Once they
married for love—now they enter the con-
nubial state to gain position, silk dresses,
diamonds, a carriage, and other etceteras,
which go to make up a fashionable "lady"
of to-day. And the passion for display and
love of dress has gone so far, that a really
good, honest young man, with a moderate
income, in one of our large cities, dare not

[Column 2]

take upon himself the responsibility of car
ing and providing for a family, for fear that
the partner of his joys and sorrows would
ruin him financially before the honeymoon
was over. If he cannot buy her as fine
dresses as her neighbors or relatives have,
in many instances dissatisfaction, (a very
unwelcome visitor) sits at the hearthstone
instead of content and happiness. This,
we say, is the present state of affairs gener-
ally, though there are, we are proud to ac-
knowledge, many honorable exceptions;
but they are too few and far between. The
love of flattery and vanity are the loopholes
by which the sophistries of the tempter
may enter. Thus, in some cases, woman's
vanity is the cause of woman's ruin; and
that woman who seeks the admiration of
men and the envy of others of her sex,
whether she be aware of it or not, lends a 
hand towards the ruin of her sisters, and
may be called to an account. The love of
dress and vanity once firmly planted in
woman's nature, and there is nothing,
scarcely, she will not sacrifice, and in many
instances all that is sacred, to obtain it.
This, I repeat, is the cause of many a girl's
ruin. 
	But there are other causes, and one pow-
erful one is the present existing state of so-
ciety. Money is the foundation, in fact the
whole structure of our BONTON circles;
brains are evidently at a discount; virtue,
honesty and uprightness are esteemed by
the majority as nothing, unless a person has
gold. And if a man is well supplied with
the necessary funds, society will admit him,
will often fawn upon him, even though he
may have obtained his wealth dishonestly,
and bears the reputation of gambler, liber-
tine and rogue. These vultures thus gain
access to the society of young and innocent
girls in fashionable circles, and the result is
that many are ruined and disgraced forever.
God speed the time when virtue will be
held in greater respect than money! Oh!
that the time were already here!  
	Another question: What would be your
feelings, girls, if you saw your brother in
the company of a woman whom you knew
to be disreputable? I need not ask you who
are pure-minded aad innocent; you would
be shocked, of course. Yet you allow men
in your company who are the destroyers,
the betrayers of innocence. You may not
know that they bear such characters; but
you should be chary as to whom you asso-
ciate with—you cannot be too careful; you
should wait until you know the character
of young men before you allow yourselves
to become acquainted with them, at least to
any extent, and if you should accidentally
ally be in the company of one whose char-
acter is tarnished do not allow yourself to
recognize him again under any circumstan-
ces. Were this rule generally observed,
there would be fewer girls ruined, and less
misery than there is now. Flirtations (es-
pecially street flirtations) are another very
fruitful source of ruin and disgrace. I have
no doubt but that many, if not the major-
ity, of girls who indulge in such little
amusements are entirely innocent of any
wrong—pure themselves, they as a natural
consequence, imagine all others to be the
same. Would it were so! But it is not,
and the many evil-minded men on the look
out for victims, in this manner find what
they seek, and through this channel open
an avenue to accomplish their wicked de-
signs.
	It is a simple thing at first; a coquettish
glance, a wave of the fan, a flirt of the
handkerchief, an uplifted hat in recognition
—simply that and nothing more; but, poor
human moth, it has led you to your doom.


An acquaintance thus begun progresses rap-
idly and ends disastrously. Words follow
glances, sighs follow words, then clandes-
tine meetings until there comes a meeting
from which can be dated a wrecked life and
a lost soul. And, oh! how many lecherous
scoundrels, panderers to vice, worse than
wolves in sheep's clothing, there are that
commence their advances through street
flirtations!"
	I would also remind my readers that:

			"The devil's in the moon
		For mischief. Methinks that they
		Who called her chaste, too soon
		Began their nomenclature. There is not a day,
		The longest, not the twenty-first of June,
		Sees not half the wicked business in its way
		As does three single hours of moonshine smile,
		But yet she looks so modest all the while."

	I will close now, having given a few rea-
sons why girls fall; but I may again refer
to the subject, if the editor of the EXPO-
NENT will let me intrude upon her space.


88		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GRAIN ITEMS.

	SPANISH FORK, Oct. 12th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	By request I send you a few items of re-
port in regard to storing grain by our Re-
trenchment Association in Spanish Fork.
We were called out by our President Mary
J. Morrison, Sept. 18, to glean, and thereby
save a portion of the grain that would have
been wasted. Seventy-five girls volunteer-
ed to go, we were organized into compa-
nies of ten, with a team to each company;
Bros. G. H. Brimhall, Z. Coltrin, E. A.
Wilson and John Beckstun, of the Y. M.
M. I. A. assisted with teams. It being
so late in the season the grain was rather
dry, however we succeeded in saving
twenty-three bushels and a half. Our ob-
ject was to save, in accordance with our de-
parted President's counsel. We would all
have willingly donated our peck; but that
would have been taken from the abundant
harvest already secured, this we saved of
what would have been left in the fields.
Bishop Snell very kindly let us have room
in the Tithing Office for our grain for the
present. In the evening the City Hall was
at our service for a party; although feeling
too tired to dance much, we felt happy that
we had been working for a good cause for
Zion. We feel well as a society and wish
at all times to be dictated by the Spirit of
God that our efforts may prove successful.
	Wishing success to the EXPONENT, I re-
main,
	Your Sister,
		E. P. LITTLE, Secretary.

	EPHRAIM, SANPETE Oct. 9th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Under the able administration of our
President Sarah A. Petersen, the counsels
of our lamented President Brigham Young
in regard to storing grain, are well respond-
ed to. The sisters of the Relief Society
have gleaned 70 bushels of wheat, beside
this, we have five hundred bushels stored
for Zion, and intend to add as much as we
possibly can. We have had rather a sickly
season in Ephraim, but the health of the
people is improving. The boys in this set-
tlement (God bless them) have hauled poles
enough to fence our Relief Society lot, and
the sisters in return made the boys happy
by a picnic supper and dance.
	With best wishes for the EXPONENT and
yourself.
	Respectfully your sister,
			AGNES S. ARMSTRONG.


[Column 1]
				 NOTICE.

	There will be an annual meeting of the sev- 
eral committees on Storing Grain, at the Coun-
cil House in this city, Satu[-]day, Nov. 17th, at
2 o'clock p. m., sharp. Presidents and Secre-
taries of Societies who have been engaged in
Storing Grain for Zion, will please report as
soon as possible by letter to the President of
Central Committee, the amount of grain they
have on hand, how it is stored and what are
their future prospects In this work, in order
that the Central Committee may make a full
and clear as well as definite report of all grain
stored for Zion, and held in trust in the hands
of women. A punctual attendance of all the
sisters of the Societies in this city, or near lo-
calities, is desired.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

	The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

	[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

		NEW FALL STOCK.

	F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

	SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.

Call at the Constitution Building, Salt Lake Cirt, and ex-
amine the large stock of goods just recieved from the
Mill, consisting of Fine White and Colored Yarns, Flan-
nels, Linseys, Etc.
				JOHN C. CUTLER,
									AGENT.

		ROWE'S
			CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
	Big Boot, Main Street.

	No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

VISITORS TO CONFERENCE
	Amply Repaid by Visiting
TEASDEL,
			FOR
	FAMILY SUPPLIES
			FOR
FALL AND WINTER WEAR.
[Column 2]
	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

	NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
	DRY GOODS,
					IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
	Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Vol. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 15, 1877.	No. 12.


ODE TO ZION.

Afflicted Zion, rise and shine!
	For thy deliverance now draws near;
The time has come—the chosen time—
	That thou must gloriously appear.

The Lord has brought thee by His hand,
	And sheltered thee beneath the rock:
While all His judgments heavy fall
	On those who at His Gospel mock.

Thy bleating flocks in pastures green,
	In flowery meadows make their bed;
While bounteous sheaves of golden grain
	For very fulness droop their head.

And as the hills around thee stand,
	Thy towering Temples soon shall rise,
And incense burn, and chorus ring
	Continual praises to the skies.

The Lord in thy assemblies waits;
	Shonts of a king amongst them are;
In power and greatness He shall sit
	And judge the nations from afar.

Lift up your heads, ye gathering Saints,
	And sing your great Redeemer's praise:
That you upon Mount Zion stand,
	Amongst the Saints of Latter-days.

Salt Lake City.	ELL[--] LEES


[Column 1]
		AFTER LONG YEARS.
			LETTER II.

	I'm looking down the vista of long years,
		Watching the shadows as they flit and play
	O'er paths I've trod 'mid hopes and doubts and fears;
		Yet have I gathered trasures by the way. 

	What tender associations of friendship
we can recall when we revert to the past.
If we have been constant and true to the
ties we have formed, there is much of sat-
isfaction in it. And if we have bravely
withstood some severe storms and tempests,
leaving ourselves and the event in the
hands of Him Who rules on high, we can
but be glad and rejoice that He has carried
us safely through. It may be that we have
learned others to protect themselves under
similar circumstances. If so, the satisfac-
tion is doubled. We have not only had an
experience that has developed some of our
noblest qualities, but will be of value to
those who are willing to be guided through
difficult and thorny paths. In early years,
when the intelligence of youth is just open-
ing upon all the beauties of nature and of
life, no thought of sorrow or care has yet
impressed itself upon the mind: dreamy,
vague, indistinct imaginings of a world all
brightness, all beauty, all gladness; and
glowing in the distance yet to be developed,
are charming scenes, too deeply and wildly
grand, which fill the ideal soul with all
their graceful and beautiful imagery. If
this illusion could last, if our lives here
were only a pathway of flowers, then per-
haps it would be well for us to allow our
children, and those who are under our
guidance, to go on blindly.
	How many fond, foolish, doting mothers
there are in the world, who allow their
daughters to pass from childhood, and
emerge into womanhood even, without
having any practical knowledge of what
life contains. Innocent, confiding, un-
sophisticated, trusting implicitly, perhaps
blindly, in the purity and goodness of those
who offer them friendship and warmer at-

[Column 2]
tachments, little dreaming, sometimes even
all unconscious of the snares that are oft-
times set for unwary feet, or the many slip-
pery paths and thorny places through which
the journey of life winds. What a vast
deal of nice discrimination and wise judg-
ment a mother needs to give the proper
training and development to her children
to point out the path of virtue, and help
them to shun error, and discipline them in
duty that will result in happiness. To the
untaught and unguarded the terrific shock
may come unexpectedly, like a thunderbolt,
shaking the tender, trusting soul to the very
centre. How many of those we knew when
young, that petted, fondled and flattered,
have passed along their way as it were
gemmed with the beautiful only, a lnxu-
rious home, indulgent parents, walled about
on every hand with warm love, shielding
them from rough contact with the outside
world, where they might come in contact
with poverty, or sorrow, or care.
	Woman's innocent trust, man's wicked,
and ofttimes cruel betrayal, have been the
under-record of society in the past; is it
not time that after long years of bitter ex-
perience, some of us should learn that there
is a better part for women than to be man's
dupe, or slave, or drudge? Will mothers
ever learn that the training of daughters as
well as sons should be such as to develop
powers that will strengthen character, at-
tributes that will prepare them to put into
practical execution the finest talents they
may possess, so that they may learn how to
live without leaning wholly on, or trusting
blindly to another? It seems to me to be
wholly and radically wrong when girls, even
women, marry for a livelihood, marry be-
cause they are not practical enough to earn
their own bread, instead of choosing their
partner to add to the sum of human happi-
ness, and the higher development of wo-
manhood.
	There have been in the far past some wo-
men of intellect and culture, who sought to
inspire in the hearts and minds of their
contemporaries, a disposition to work out
the problem of woman's independence and
higher elevation—some noble souls who
could not see with the eyes of society—per-
chance through the bitter sorrow and long-
suffering of some one of their progenitors,
this enlightenment had come down to them,
working itself out as the problems of life
sometimes will. "Causes will produce ef-
fects." It is the inevitable law of nature.
And I believe mind will act upon mind in a
certain and positive manner, though we
poor, short-sighted mortals understand it
not. When the Lord said "the sins of the
fathers shall be visited upon the children
unto the third and fourth generation," &c.,
we have every reason to believe this worked
itself out through certain principles known
and understood by the Deity—laws which
pertain to the order of our being.
							AUNT EM.


THE field of literature is conquered for
women. There are no longer bars or ob-
structions of any sort in the way. A wo-
man who has anything to say is privileged
to say it; and if it is worth hearing the
world will lend an attentive ear.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MME. THIERS is negotiating for the house
in the Rue Petits Peres, Marseilles, in
which her deceased husband was born, and
will make it a free museum. Among the
contents will be many objects of Art pos-
sessed by M. Thiers.—Ex.
	AS A sign of the times, the Woman's
Journal published the following: In New
York Oct. 29, Mrs. Elizabeth Thompson,
the distinguished philanthropist and mil-
lionaire, was elected president of the New
York Liberal Club, formerly presided over
by Horace Greeley.
	WORKMEN AT JERUSALEM.—Among the
10,500 or 11,000 Jewish inhabitants of Je-
rusalem, there are, according to the "Gates
of Zion"—182 tailors (masters and journey-
men), 98 shoemakers, 86 joiners and car-
penters, 35 turners, 15 smiths, 7 metal
workers, 2 potters, 42 tinmen, 12 gold and
silver smiths, 13 watchmakers, 5 engravers
3 stone-workers, 4 umbrella-makers, 10 book
binders, 5 workers on sewing-machines, 1
weaver, 1 saddler, 3 upholsterers, 3 wire
workers, 1 broommaker, 52 porters, 6 bak
ers, 15 bakers' assistants, 25 printers, 10
millers, 10 scribes, 4 butchors—649 work
men in all.—"Israel's Watchman."
	THE BISHOP of Manchester, in a sermon
preached at the re-opening of Kirkhan
Church, rebuked the disposition among peo-
ple to joke on the subject of the Colorado
beetle. It appears the worthy and learned
Bishop believes in prophecy, and quoted on
that occasion the saying of the prophet—
that God's four tokens of Himself were the
sword, the famine, the pestilence, and the
noisome beast, and remarked that at the
present time these calamities existed, add-
ing that God was coming out of His place,
and was visiting the nations of the earth.
	THE CITIZENS' Suffrage Association, at
Philadelphia, have presented to Mrs. Ruth-
erford B. Hayes an Address, setting forth
the reasons why there is need of the ballot
for woman. We cannot now publish this
address in full, as we did not receive it in
time. We will give it space in our next
issue, as we desire to lend our aid in behalf
of Woman's Suffrage. The "Philadelphia
Inquirer" of Oct. 24, comments thus:
	WASHINGTON, Oct 23,—Mr. Robert Pur-
vis, at the request of the Citizens' Suffrage
Association of Philadelphia, waited upon
Mrs. Rutherford B. Hayes to-day, and pre-
sented to her the address adopted by that
body.
	Mr. Purvis writes: "I have just returned
from a very satisfactory and delightful in-
terview with Mrs. Hayes. She received
me most cordially. I read to her the elo-
quent address from the Woman's Suffrage
Association. She listened with marked at-
tention, was grateful for the high favor con-
ferred upon her, and sent her best wishes
for the success of the cause. I made refer-
ence to the fact that the address bore the
honored name of Lucretia Mott, which she
received with a ready acknowledgment of
her great worth and usefulness, pre-emi-
nently distinguished as a reformer and a
philanthropist."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on
Saturday, October 13th, was well attended.
Counselor E. Howard presided. The min-
utes of the previous meeting were a feast
in themselves, and especially to those who
had not been present on that occasion. The
minutes of the young secretaries from the
different wards were replete with food for
thought to both old and young. Counselor
E. Howard was the first speaker; in her re-
marks she alluded to the spirit and power
manifested at the late Conference. She
also made excellent remarks upon Celestial
Marriage and its practice among the Saints.
Miss E. R. Snow in her remarks commented
upon the improvement of the young peo-
ple, the hopes she had of their being com-
petent to do the great work which has yet
to be accomplished in building up Zion.
She explained the change in the business
of the Woman's Store: said that instead of
there being a decrease in the business, the
business was all the time on the increase;
she urged the sisters to sustain this institu-
tion, established expressly for the sale of 
home-manufactures, and to aid in develop-
ing the different branches of home indus-
tries, useful and ornamental. Mrs. E. B.
Wells made a few remarks on the advan-
tages enjoyed by the women of this Terri-
tory, and the extended circulation of the
EXPONENT, the good that was being effected
by it, and the representation it gave the
sisters abroad. Also spoke upon the storing
of grain by women, and read the notice of
the annual meeting and an article written
upon the grain subject. Mrs. Jane S. Rich-
ards, of Ogden, spoke upon obedience, and
the pleasure she felt in the work of the sis-
ters, and referred to the sisters' meetings
in Ogden, the good results which had al-
ready followed. Expressed her joy and
gratitude in the progress of the kingdom
of God, and said many good things. Mrs.
E. S. Barney made a few remarks, and read
part of a chapter from the "Women of Mor-
mondom."

	General Retrenchment Meeting, Four-
teenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Oct. 27, Mrs.
M. I. Horne presiding. The meeting was
a large one; after the usual exercises, read-
ing of minutes, etc., the President of the
Senior Association addressed the meeting.
She gave a synopsis of her visit to Bear
Lake Valley, spoke of the pleasure she had
in visiting the societies in the different set-
tlements. She also alluded briefly to the
sorrow of the brethren and sisters on learn-
ing of the death of President Young, which
occurred while she was in Paris. Re-
marked upon the peaceful influence and
heavenly spirit which seemed to rest upon
all who attended the funeral, and contrast-
ed the circumstances of his death with
that of the Prophet Joseph. Elder Joseph
E. Taylor being present was invited by the 
President to address the assembly. His
remarks were upon the present condition
of Israel, especially the youth; exhorted
mothers to wake up on the subject of re-
form among the young.
	Counselor S. M. Kimball made some pithy
remarks, alluding to the existing state of
governments and society. Mrs. Horne
then made some plain statements of the in-
struction which had been givon to mothers,
from time to time, in the meetings, ever
since the organization of the society. Mrs.
W. East made a few remarks upon the sub-
ject before the meeting.

[Column 2]

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Young Ladies Meetings here in the
Sixteenth Ward have been suspended since
March 27th, as not receiving their portion
of the material for making decorative flow-
ers for the Tabernacle until then, they were
obliged to devote all the time they could
spare thereafter to that work. The meet-
ings are now recommenced. The first was
held on Oct. 25, when after singing and
prayer the roll was called and the minutes
of the last meeting read and accepted.
Counselor Miss Caroline Parry then read a
selection from the EXPONENT, after which
the meeting was addressed by Treasurer
Mrs. M. J. Thompson, President Miss Mary
Williams, and Secretary Miss E. S. Els-
more, all expressing their joy in their re-
union, and willingness to do all that might
be required of them, and expressed an in-
terest in the work of building and minister-
ing in Temples.
	Miss E. S. Elsmore then resigned her of-
fice of Secretary which she held the first
year of the organization as asssistant secre-
tary, and ever since that time as Secretary,
which will be four years January 24, 1878.
Her reason for resigning being that her
place of residence was changed and was
now so far from where they meet, that she
felt she would not be able to perform her
duty as she would wish in that important
office. President Miss Mary Williams then
presented Miss Elsmore in behalf of the
association, the work entitled "The Life of
Brigham Young or Utah and Her Found-
ers," as a token of their appreciation of her
faithfulness in the discharge of her duty as
secretary.
	Miss Elsmore accepted the gift, and said
she had not words wherewith to express
her feelings in this pleasant surprise, and
that words were inadequate to tell how she
would prize the gift, as much in memory
of the donors as for the valuable book itself.
She would regard it as one of her choicest
treasures. Said she had tried to do her
duty, but we do not merit any praise for
doing our duty, as we should do that al-
ways.
	Miss Martha Forsyth was then accepted
as Secretary by the unanimous vote of the
association. It was then moved that the
Association hereafter be known as Mutual
Improvement instead of Retrenchment As-
sociation. This motion was carried unani-
mously.
	 The Association will now meet each
Thursday afternoon at three o'clock p. m.
	MISS MARY WILLIAMS, Prest.
	MISS MARTHA FORSYTH, Sec'y.


[For the EXPONENT.
				WAITING.

	How sad it is to see a pale weary face
pressed against the window-pane or stand-
ing on the threshold for hours, waiting for
some loved one who does not come, and
how sad to hear the weary sigh of disap-
pointment when, after hours of waiting, one
must turn away for we have waited until
twilight has shut out all objects and the
lamps within are lighted, the curtains
drawn, and we must not look any longer for
we cannot discern any object in the gather-
ing darkness. Now we can only sit and
wait to hear the sound of the footsteps that
have grown so familiar; but it does not
come and perhaps may never come again.

		"Ah! how many wait forever
			For the steps that do not come,
		Wait until the pitying angels
			Bear them to a peaceful home."


Sometimes we grow weary—of life wait-
ing. Waiting for promises that are never
fulfilled; for dreams that are never real-
ized, and hopes that are never gained. Our
lives are made up of waiting, from the 
cradle to the grave; the child waits for the
privilege of being a man, and the man
waits for his rest in heaven, for life has
enough trials and vexations to make us
sometimes wait impatiently for the end
when we can rest. When we are in poverty
we are waiting for prosperity, and when
we gain it, if we ever do, we then wait for
happiness, which wealth alas! does not al-
ways bring. I think though, that there
are a few sweet happy souls who can meet
disappointments bravely, who have learned
that cruel lesson of waiting patiently and
long; and when adversity overtakes them,
wait with a loving patience that is truly
noble, for the blessed sun of prosperity.
But alas! how many go down to the grave
waiting. We must all learn to wait, pa-
tiently if possible, always trusting in the
Alwise Father who overrules all things for
our good.					JUNE.


FIFTH WOMAN'S CONGRESS.

	This Woman's Congress was held in
Cleveland, Ohio Oct. 10, Miss Abby W.
May of Boston, President of the Executive
Committee presided; Dr. Alida C. Avery
of Colorado was elected Secretary pro tem.,
in the absence of the regular Secretary.
There were morning, afternoon and even-
ing sessions, continuing three days. The
papers read by the different contribu-
tors, are all of them deeply interesting to
all candid and earnest thinkers either men
or women. These several papers on the
various subjects discussed published in
pamphlet form and circulated throughout
the United States and Great Britian would 
certainly open the eyes of some of the in-
different on these vital subjects and cause
light to shine in upon the darkness which
exists in the minds of many. When wo-
men of such superior intellect and ability
unite together in a Grand Council the world
may readily anderstand that there is a
meaning attached to it, and they may look
for revolution or reform; for the consequen-
ces are sure to be of a nature characteristic
of the movement and of the instigators.
We are glad to see the women of America
so heroically espouse their own cause and
that of universal freedom and privileges
alike to men and women. One item in Mrs.
Sara J. Spencer's discussion of the paper of
the Rev. Antionette Brown Blackwell, on
"Work Adapted To The Workers," which
was read during the morning session of
the first day, struck us forcibly as being
peculiarly applicable to mothers wives etc.,
it was this. She spoke with considerable
sarcasm of "what some wives and mothers
receive for looking after the interests of
the household, and inquired if treating the
measles and whooping cough is not worthy
of pay what is? She thought the labors
performed by the mother above value, but
believed that a certain portion of the hus-
band's earnings were very justly the
wife's."


A STRONG, free and happy womanhood
seems to demand, in addition to moral,
mental and physical culture, such a direc-
tion of practical energy as will make self-
support as easy as it is for men.—Anna C.
Garlin.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		91


CONDEMNATION.

	So she is down; well, do your utmost part
To bring her lower, for you may have found
Some spot they have not stabbed, and the sharp wound
	May reach her shivering heart.
	But wait 'till you are sure that all the pack
Of loud defamers, with one wild accord
	Are fiercely baying at the culprit's back;
Then strike your blow, while thanking the dear Lord,
	That thou art not as she, whom all do hunt,
	And point the finger at with just affront.
We are so perfect, that in dread we cry
	At others' sins, and sometimes at a fault;
	We walk so straight, that if another halt
We cannot pass it by.
—North Hero, Vermont,			—Woman's Journal.


SATURDAY NIGHT.

				SELECTED.

Placing the little hats all in a row,
Ready for church on the morrow' you know;
Washing wee faces and little black fists,
Getting them ready and fit to be kissed;
Putting them into clean garments and white:
That is what mothers are doing to-night.

Spying out holes in the little white hose,
Laying by shoes that are worn through the toes,
Looking o'er garments so faded and thin—
Who but a mother knows where to begin?
Changing a button to make it look right—
This is what mothers are doing to-night.

Calling the little ones all round her chair,
Hearing them lisp forth their soft evening prayer,
Telling them stories of Jesus of old,
Who loves to gather the lambs to his fold;
Watching, they listen with childish delight—
That is what mothers are doing to-night.

Creeping so softly to take a last peep,
After the little ones all are asleep;
Anxious to know if the children are warm,
Tucking the blankets round each little form;
Kissing each little face, rosy and bright—
This is what mothers are doing to-night.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
			MORMONISM.

			(CONTINUED.)

	"The Kingdom of God cometh not with
observation." How truly has the thinking,
observant mind realized this Scripture in
the Latter-day Work. When first this
Church of Jesus Christ arose it was not no-
ticed by the Erudite of the world. If the
religious gave it a thought it was only to
sneer and despise; some would glance at it
and say, "What crazy people those are"—
but it grew, and at last enough was thought
of it to raise a mob (even in the boasted
free country of America) to erase it from
the earth! but it "stooped to conquer," and
it did; it adjourned to the wilds of the con-
tinent; it traveled over the prairies and 
the hills, where the foot of the white man
had not been planted; it found a home in
the mountains; its people set to work and
soon made that home beautiful; it became
an Eldorado "in the tops of the mountains,"
where vegetation, spread far and wide, made
prolific by the virgin soil, and breathed up-
on by the Spirit of God! where the rose,
the queen of flowers, calmly took her floral
throne, and waved her lovely sceptre over
her floral kingdom. Travelers soon came,
and marveled at the beauty and the won-
drous utility that had sprung up in the bar-
ren desert, under the persevering hands of
an enterprising people; again realizing
Scripture, that "the desert should blossom
as the rose," and "the fountains of water
spring out of dry places." The pillar of
fire waved above it, though common eyes
saw it not; convoys of angels guarded it
day and night, but the eyes of the world-
ling could not behold them!
<ipuld hqjoliold="" them!,="" a="" pilghty="" man="" was="" the="" leader;="" whose="" clear="" brain="" andr="" uhsiflking="" 'ti'&irt-="" rehderect="" i="" hinr5indomitable.'="" so="" kndw="" he="" was-rtho="" servant="" of="" f3od-="" bnd-="" guided="" by="" his="" 'hand,="" :="" andthis="" gave="" him="" strength.day="" day,="" and="" hour;by="" hour,-and:="" made="" him:="" firin="" ’-="" invincible;="" it="" grew—yes,="" the'="" church="" latter-day="" .saints="" grew-and="" spread;,="" took="" form,="" had="" .voice,="" silent="" eloqlittlee="" all,="" its:o.wn,="" that="" struak="" even="" dullest,ear;="" it3="" became="" palpable,="" and,="" tbe;="" wpyld’s,.="" ;="" eyqi="" caught="" at="" last="" i;="" though,="" saw="" thrpugh="" glass="" very="" darkly;="" began="" to="" be="" talked="" about,="" written:="" crowds="" rushgd="" ..="" il="" ‘fas="" doves.o="" windows”="" enlist.="" ed="" under="" its="" banner="" these="" weretira.="" honest,="" poor,="" yes,="" educated="" intelligent="" minds,="" were="" yearn-="" ing="" adv.aiiqed,="" dpsiring.="" to,="" break="" shackles="" time="" had',="" caused="" ,to.pat="" into="" their'="" very,="" spuli—bands,="" only="" time,and="" our="" father,="" thrown,="" as="" were,="" sacred="" mantle="" over.="" simmer="" down="" tbb="" dogmas="" which="" they="" held;="" andwe="" find="" them="" literally="" composed="" debris="" 0f:="" old="" ’'[="" mother="" ip="" now-="" dress,="" with="" less="" trappings="" about="" it.="" to-day="" eyes="" ‘="" ,="" world="" are="" upon-="" the-church="" in’the'="" wilder:="" ness,="" not="" needing="" now="" one-of="" hcrschell’s="" monster="" telescopes="" tti’see="" i.="" has="" become="" “as="" a'(.beacon="" oh="" hill;.?="" ;yes,="" “heav-="" en-klsslng-hill,”="" tool="" readers,="" writers,="" thinkers;="" talk="" read="" and..,="" write="" it,-though="" still="" wear="" snepr-="" yoi.ee="" satirical,.="" a.hi="" one.="" me-="" ment="" speak,="" brigham-="" young-as="" maryel.amppg="" men.—“one="" most="" sue.,="" cessful="" .men.="" present="" generation..="" knbwn”—and="" in.="" ,the.'="" next="" sentence'="" braiid-="" himas="" an="" afehrimpostdr—="" ;of‘="" pb="" educatiqn="" or="" culture.”="" get="" glimpse="" 1;="" -="" of'the="" grandeur="" man’s="" pliarhctor,="" capnot="" but="" own="" it,="" stamp="" themselves;="" ignorant="" .dolts,="" try="" throw="" shade="" speaking'of="" his’-low="" birth,="" liis="" hon-educption,="" fec.="" what="" dupes="" writersof="" such="" articl.es="" must="" tp="" their="" narrow="" creed,="" believe="" quarter="" million="" people;="" bf="" cornmon-sensc="" popu-="" latlon="" every="" country,="" mind's="" unbi-="" ased="" muty="" scholastic="" jar-="" gon,="" -heart3="" and'="" brains="" clear;="" quick="" receive="" truth,="" no="" wotldiy="" .a="" emoluments-hel(l-out="" before:="" them',-but="" rather="" sacrifice'="" all,;="" if="" need="" he,="" jpc;.tlio="" gospel’s="" sako,="" could="" thqd.upos-ofigi="" noranco="" imposture!="" no!="" among="" people,="" branded="" almost="" imbecile,="" there="" “jmute="">
[Column 2]
	A mighty man was the leader; whose
clear brain and unsinking heart rendered
him indomitable. He knew he was the
servant of God and guided by His hand,
and this gave him strength day by day,
and hour by hour, and made him firm and
invincible. It grew—yes, the Church of
Latter-day Saints grew and spread; it took
a form, it had a voice, a silent eloquence all
its own, that stuck even the dullest ear;
its form became palpable, and the world's
eye was caught at last! though it saw
through a glass very darkly; it began to be
talked about, written about, crowds rushed
to it "as doves to the windows" and enlist-
ed under its banner. These were the 
honest, the poor, yes, and the educated
and the intelligent minds, that were yearn-
ing to be advanced, desiring to break the
shackles that Time had caused to eat into
their very souls—bands, that only Time and
our Father had thrown, as it were, a sacred
mantle over. Simmer down the dogmas
by which they were held; and we find them
literally composed of the debris of the old
Mother Church in a new dress, with less
trappings about it. To-day the eyes of the
world are upon the church in the wilder-
ness, not needing now one of Herschell's
Monster Telescopes to see it! It has become
"as a beacon on a hill;" yes, and a "Heav-
en kissing hill," too! And the readers, and
the writers, and the thinkers, talk, read and
write about it, though they still wear a
sneer and a voice satirical. Ah! one mo-
ment they speak of Brigham Young as a 
marvel among men—"one of the most suc-
cessful men the present generation has
known"—and in the next sentence brand-
ing him as an arch-impostor—"a man of no
education or culture." They get a glimpse
of the grandeur of the man's character, and
they cannot but own it, or stamp themselves
as ignorant dolts, but they try to throw it
into the shade by speaking of his low birth,
his non-education, &c. What dupes the
writers of such articles must be to their own
narrow creed, to believe that a quarter of a
million people of the common-sense popu-
lation of every country, with minds unbi-
ased by the musty dogmas of scholastic jar-
gon, hearts honest, and brains clear, and
quick to receive the truth, with no worldly
emoluments held out before them, but
rather to sacrifice all, if need be, for the
Gospel's sake, could still be the dupes of ig-
norance and imposture! No! no! among
these people, branded as almost imbecile,
there are the "Mute, inglorious Miltons,"
the "Village Hampdens," the "Cromwells,
guiltless of their country's blood," or any
other. When the cloud is dispersed, light
shall issue from these luminaries, that shall
flood the world, and daakness shall flee
away, and Truth will prevail. Mormonism,
so-called, is onward and upward; its princi-
ples are God-given, hence life-giving and
eternal. Blessed are they who can keep
the straight and narrow way "in the dark
hour, as well as in the blaze of sunshine,"
which, bye the bye, is apt to dazzle and mis-
lead! The path is often rongh and broken,
temporal warfare is often hard and perilous,
but they will never hear the voice "Woe to
them that are at ease in Zion." Let the
true Saint remember that the poor, the
widow and the orphan are especially the
care of God.
	The motto of the Kingdom of God is 
"Excelsior!"
	Oct. 23, 1877.	HANNAH T. KING.


WHY does the heart resemble a musical
instrument?—Because it's often played
with.


<jyelwere visited="" by="" sisters="" e.="" r.="" snow,="" zina="" d.="" young,="" and="" davis="" from="" salt="" labe="" city,="" we,="" had="" lovely="" day.="" r.tbe'="" rlief="" society="" held="" ing="" in="" the="" afternoon.="" our="" .president,="" mrs.="" .="" (="" williepresiding,="" made="" a="" few="" introductory="" re-,---="" marks="" said="" she="" waa="" pleased="" to="" meetwith="" y-="" her="" on="" such="" an="" interesting="" occasion."-v,="" miss'e.="" ri="" snow="" arose'and="" said,="" liadof---="" ten="" thought="" would="" like="" pay="" visit="" '="" saints="" mendon,="" and.="" that="" was="" glail'="" to1'="" have="" opportunity,.‘at="" lash="" gave="" us="" v,="" words="" of="" comfort="" and-counsel,="" i="" think="" there="" no="" one.="" present="" thaldid="" not="" feel="" blest.with="" privilege="" hearng="" voice,="" listen-="" her.="" instruction..="" mis.="" il="" young="" ..="" cheered="" with="" kind="" words,="" good="" counsel="" both="" old="" spoke="" ne-="" cessity="" constant="" watchfulness="" prayer="" own="" parts;="" sjioke="" planting="" out="" mulberry="" treesj="" getting="" start="" silk="" wbrmsand="" rais:’="" :="" for="" exportation="" mrs;="" e’.-,k'.="" then="" arose="" and'="" forgot-1="" last="" visit.to="" mendqn,="" giad="" to'="" ‘="" meet="" the'="" peo'pip="" once="" .more;.="" showed="" s6mo="" ,!="" samples="" home-made="" 'clqth="" which="" ;slie="" hid="" !="" “="" brouglitup="" .the="" -woman’s="" cdmmissipn="" '1="" store,="" lake="" ciy,="" she,also,="" recdnimendcjd="" 1="" woman’s="" eonent,="" ,juveniio="" jntrct-="">	MENDON, CACHE Co., Oct. 26, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Last Tuesday was a day that will long be re-
membered by the Saints in Mendon. We were
visited by Sisters E. R. Snow, Zina D. Young,
and E. Davis from Salt Lake City. We had a 
lovely day. The Relief Society held a meet-
ing in the afternoon. Our President, Mrs. E.
Willie, presiding, made a few introductory re-
marks and said she was pleased to meet with 
her sisters on such an interesting occasion.
	Miss E. R. Snow arose and said, she had of-
ten thought she would like to pay a visit to the 
saints in Mendon, and that she was glad to 
have the opportunity at last. She gave us
words of comfort and counsel, I think there
was no one present that did not feel blest with
the privilege of hearing her voice, and listen-
ing to her instruction. Mrs. Zina D. Young
cheered us with a few kind words, gave good
counsel to both old and young, spoke of the ne-
cessity of constant watchfulness and prayer on
our own parts; spoke of planting out mulberry
trees, getting a start with silk worms and rais-
ing our own silk and for exportation. Mrs. E.
Davis then arose and said she had not forgot-
ten her last visit to Mendon, and was glad to
meet the people once more; she showed some
samples of home-made cloth which she had
brought up from the Woman's Commission
Store, Salt Lake City, she also recommended
the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, Juvenile Instruct-
or, and the Palestine Tourists, The Life of 
Brigham Young and the The Women of Mor-
mondon, as books that the Saints should have
in their homes and read.
<jyelwere visited="" by="" sisters="" e.="" r.="" snow,="" zina="" d.="" young,="" and="" davis="" from="" salt="" labe="" city,="" we,="" had="" lovely="" day.="" r.tbe'="" rlief="" society="" held="" ing="" in="" the="" afternoon.="" our="" .president,="" mrs.="" .="" (="" williepresiding,="" made="" a="" few="" introductory="" re-,---="" marks="" said="" she="" waa="" pleased="" to="" meetwith="" y-="" her="" on="" such="" an="" interesting="" occasion."-v,="" miss'e.="" ri="" snow="" arose'and="" said,="" liadof---="" ten="" thought="" would="" like="" pay="" visit="" '="" saints="" mendon,="" and.="" that="" was="" glail'="" to1'="" have="" opportunity,.‘at="" lash="" gave="" us="" v,="" words="" of="" comfort="" and-counsel,="" i="" think="" there="" no="" one.="" present="" thaldid="" not="" feel="" blest.with="" privilege="" hearng="" voice,="" listen-="" her.="" instruction..="" mis.="" il="" young="" ..="" cheered="" with="" kind="" words,="" good="" counsel="" both="" old="" spoke="" ne-="" cessity="" constant="" watchfulness="" prayer="" own="" parts;="" sjioke="" planting="" out="" mulberry="" treesj="" getting="" start="" silk="" wbrmsand="" rais:’="" :="" for="" exportation="" mrs;="" e’.-,k'.="" then="" arose="" and'="" forgot-1="" last="" visit.to="" mendqn,="" giad="" to'="" ‘="" meet="" the'="" peo'pip="" once="" .more;.="" showed="" s6mo="" ,!="" samples="" home-made="" 'clqth="" which="" ;slie="" hid="" !="" “="" brouglitup="" .the="" -woman’s="" cdmmissipn="" '1="" store,="" lake="" ciy,="" she,also,="" recdnimendcjd="" 1="" woman’s="" eonent,="" ,juveniio="" jntrct-="">	There was a General meeting in the evening,
when the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association was organized: the following are
the names of those chosen to act as officers.
Mrs. Teny Richards, President; Mrs. Sarah
Ann Hughes, Miss Annie Paul, Miss Sarah L.
Walker, and Miss Annie E. Wood, her coun-
selors, Miss Lydia A. Andersen, Treasurer,
Miss Emma Willie Secretary, Mrs. Rhoda
Smyth, Assistant Secretary. Mrs. Richards
presided. Miss E. R. Snow then talked a 
long time to the young folks, and gave them
many words of encouragement. Mrs. Zina D.
Young talked in a very kind and motherly
way which made a good impression. These
meetings have made the sisters feel like re-
newing their efforts to be useful, Mrs. E. Davis
spoke a few words concerning the Church
Works that it would be well for all to read
Bishop Hughes then gave a few words of en-
couragement, and remarked that he intended
to meet with us sometimes at our testimony
meetings. We all went to our homes rejoicing
in a knowledge of the Gospel.
				Your Sister, etc.
						RHODA SMYTH.


A SERVANT who prided herself on living
in a "genteel" family defined it, on being
questioned, as one "where they keep a car-
riage, have three or four kinds of wine, and
never pay a bill the first time its called for."
	A SCOTCH editor illustrates the prevail-
ing extravagance of the present day by
calling attention to the costly perambulators
in use now; while, when he was a baby,
they hauled him around by the hair of his
head.
	"Two and two never make more than
four;" said a public speaker. "Yes, they
do," cried a boy in the audience. "Per-
haps our young friend will kindly tell us
when two and two make more than four,"
blandly said the speaker; whereupon the 
boy cried, "When they're side by side, you
old stupid—then they make twenty-two,
don't they?"


92		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 15, 1877.


[Column 1]
		WOMEN IN REFORM.

	Everywhere people are crying out for reform.
Reform in all circles, in all parties, is declared
positively necessary. The best methods for
bringing about this change of almost all class-
es, of society, and in nearly all countries is
being discussed in public and in private, in
writing and in speaking. It is the theme of
men and of women. They see the great need
but they do not yet find a specific remedy that
can be made practicable, or adapted to the exi-
gencies of the case. Great men and wise men
counsel together, and discuss plans and lay
down rules and regulations, adopt measures,
pass laws, and still the world grows rapidly
worse. Have they forgotten the Scripture that
says positively that "the cup of iniquity shall
be full and running over." Yet there shall be
a people raised up, who will work righteous-
ness in the earth, a chosen people, but these
are so few that they are only spoken of as a
remnant. The law which governs them is to
be the law of God. These are they who are to
build up Zion and redeem the nation. In that
day "men shall run to and fro, and knowledge
shall increase." Is not this the case? Can
anything be plainer than that these things are
being fulfilled? There are many honest heart-
ed and sincere who desire to see a better state
of things and they are seeking to adopt some
wise methods for the cleansing and purify-
ing of society. Many have entered into the
work believing they had a remedy that would
apply and have been disappointed. Some of
the truest hearted and of the soundest judg-
ment have seen the necessity of woman's help,
of woman's voice, of woman's nice discrimina-
tion on the gravest subjects, while others cry
out against her stepping out of her sphere.
Woman is quicker in intuition most men are
willing to admit. Yet they would have her
sit still by her own fireside, while her children
and the children of her neighbors are fast
wending their way to destruction; morally and
spiritually and physically becoming corrupted.
She must sit patiently by and wait for men to
correct these growing evils, and scarcely ven-
ture an opinion lest she should lose caste. In
addition to this she must bear the blame of not
having instilled into the minds of her child-
ren good principles while they were young, or
of some lack of discretion on her part at an
earlier date still; but the father is guiltless, in
common parlance, and yet she must not de-
fend herself in any way unless she can do it at
home—"In her womanly sphere" which men
declare is quite broad enough for her to work
in. How short-sighted are those who are will-
ing to be thus deprived of the blessing of free-
dom that God has given to man and woman
alike. "I do not want to vote, I do not want
anything to do outside of keeping home com-

[Column 2]
fortable." These are the words that we hear
echoed from one to another of the fair sex:
among those who are the good and true moth-
ers and wives. And another class are too much
occupied by frivolity and love of dress; callous
to everything but their own foolish pride and
vanity. Men flatter them, and they feast upon
it, until some day there comes a terrible awak-
ening. But these assertions do not apply to all;
there are many noble exceptions. Women
who are willing to brave the storms, and stand
fast for principle, though public opinion is
against them, sacrificing the finest feelings, and 
even allowing themselves to be deprecated by
persons whose esteem they would fain retain—
yet knowing there are great questions at issue,
at all hazards they lend their utmost aid, leav-
ing the consequences to time, or to "One who
sees not as man sees." The women of this Ter-
ritory have many privileges. They have the
right of Suffrage. Do they appreciate it as
they ought? They have many avenues through
which good may be accomplished, if they can
be made to realize it. The Lord will hold the
sisters responsible for opportunities lost, for has
He not said "where much is given much will
be required?" The women of Utah have some
blessings, social and political, as well as re-
ligious, which the world at large do not enjoy.
If the sisters will sustain, and maintain the in-
stitutions, and enterprises that are even now
open to them, it will not be long before some of
the wise women of the world, will be able to
discern "the better part," and will be willing
to receive knowledge of the laws of life and
measures for reform, from those whom they
now despise and deem ignorant. The Lord is
dealing with the nations, and there are among
them women of such fine intuition that they
comprehend that some steps must be taken;
yet great men, statesmen, diplomatists, and men
versed in law, and in the science of life, moral,
physical and social, stand upon the brink of a
precipice, and while woman reaches ont her
hand to avert the threatening danger—they in
their greatness, their boasted chivalry, refuse
the help, because, forsooth, 'tis offered by wo-
man. Gentlemen, consider well this momen-
tous question of suffrage—only let the trial be
made—have respect to the mothers, wives and
sisters who are now entreating and interceding
that they may help you in the great cause of
universal reform.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	MRS. ROMANIA B. Pratt, M. D., continues
her interesting and instructive free lectures to
the Ladies' Medical Class, every Friday after-
noon, as usual, at this office. Also Mrs. Ellen
B. Ferguson, M. D., gives free lectures at the
same place, Saturday afternoon every second
week, at three o'clock.  All ladies desirous of
obtaining knowledge of the laws of life, and
how to preserve their health, and rear children
how to determine in cases of illness, should
improve these opportunities and not fail in
punctuality.

	WE HAVE received the first number of "The
Amateur," edited by Joseph A. West, under
the auspices of the Y. M. M. I. A. of Ogden
City. Its motto "Knowledge is power, Union
is strength." Of course this is experimental,
but we feel sure The Amateur will be success-
ful in its mission. We heartily rejoice in every
new avenue of this sort, which opens for im-
provement among the young people. We trust
it will be widely circulated, and so well sup-
ported, that it may increase in size and become
as popular as any of the publications of the

[Column 2]
Latter-day-Saints. We give The Amateur a
cordial greeting and feel that it has a wide field
of labor before it, in which to sew good seed of
which the reward may be a rich harvest for
Israel.
	ON TUESDAY, Oct. 30, in the Ogden Taber-
nacle, a Quarterly Meeting of the Weber Co.
Relief Society, was held, appointed at the sug-
gestion of President Brigham Young in July
last. A statistical report of the finances of the
Society was read dating back to the organiza-
tion of each separate branch of the Society in
that county. The condition of each Society
in all special respects was also reported in
writing. These reports in the aggregate,
amount to vast sums that have been gathered
in various ways and disbursed to many benevo-
lent purposes. And the Society in its various
branches still holds in trust means invested in
different enterprises, property, etc., such as
has been deemed proper and practicable. This
meeting appointed by President Young, seems
to be a precedent for other branches of the Re-
lief Society to follow. There is a system about
it and correctness such as should exist in trans-
acting all business whether for benevolent pur-
poses or any other. Every person knows that
if the poor are helped, or the sick taken care of
it all requires funds, and whether it is money
or means of another kind, it is nevertheless
tangible, it is not a myth. And a record has
been kept of all means donated in the order of
the Relief Society. Men have been a little
anxious in times past whether women would
make wise use of means at their disposal, but
we think these meetings, where such perfect
accounts are publicly read would dispel the
doubts of those who are troubled on these
points. The weather was inauspicious on that
day, but the meeting was one of great interest
and we trust there may be many similar meet-
ings held throughout the Territory, that the
most thorough understanding may exist on all
matters relating to the building up of the king-
dom of God. The remarks made on that oc-
casion by the sisters were full of wisdom and
rich with inspiration; and the words of bless-
ing and encouragement which fell from the
lips of Apostle Richards at that meeting were
"like apples of gold in pictures of silver."
Some other items of this report will be given
in our next.
	Under the auspices of the Young Ladies As-
sociation at Farmington the people of that
place had a most enjoyable time on Thursday
evening Nov. 8. The young gentlemen and
ladles met together on this occasion, and by
invitation the Bishop and Counselors and
many of the elder brethren and sisters. Prof.
Daynes was invited and went up from Salt
Lake City to preside at the organ; the music
was exceedingly fine. Miss E. R. Snow and
Mrs. E. B. Wells were also present by invita-
tion. Mrs. Lucy Clark, President of the young
ladies presided with ease and dignity. After
the usual opening exercises, the Secretary of
the Young Ladies, Miss Louise Stayner read
the minutes of a previous meeting, and also the
annual report. These minutes were so nicely
condensed as to make them specially interest-
ing. The report showed that the Society had
raised means for the Temple during the year
amounting to $45 15, the greater part of this in
five cent donations.
	A programme had been arranged for the
evening. First was the singing of the Sunday
School Choir, this was followed by a song en-
titled "An address to the Young Ladies," com-
posed by the President Mrs. L. Clark purpose-
ly for the occasion, and sung by Joseph E. and
Dora Robinson, organ accompaniment by Prof.


Daynes. Essay on Marriage, Miss Annie
Steed; Song, Friendship, Miss Minerva Rich-
ards and Miss Clara Miller. Essay on Home,
Miss Minerva Richards, Song, Work Saints
Work, by the S. S. Choir. Select reading by
Miss Wealthy Richards, an article from the
Young ladies Index edited in their society now
in its second volume. Song, What's the Use
of Fretting, Misses Nellie Clawson and Eliza
Miller. Comic reading by Mr. A. Stayner,
Song and chorus, Darling Mother, Mrs. Dora
Robinson. There were also solos by Prof.
Daynes at intervals. Miss Snow then address-
ed the assembly on the subjects of improve-
ment and cultivation of the young, home in-
dustries, the different duties and obligations of
life, and various practical and spiritual subjects.
Mrs. Wells spoke on Storing Grain, and plural
marriage, expressed her pleasure in meeting
with them, etc.
	Bishop Hess spoke a few encouraging words,
acknowledged the help the societies had been
to him. Expressed his pleasure in hearing the
minutes and report of the young sisters, and
told the young brethren they ought to pattern
by them.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		93


[Column 1]
				DISCOURSE
					BY
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG,
				DELIVERED
In the Tabernacle, Ogden, at a Meeting of the
		Relief Societies of Weber County,
				July 19th, 1877.

		REPORTED BY JAMES TAYLOR.

				[CONTINUED.]

	Now I will talk to you mothers. If I were
invited to your house to take supper, or break-
fast to-morrow morning, if you have it within
your reach you will have a platter of meat
cooked, and will put this before your children.
They are hungry, and require something to
satisfy the demands of nature. You place this
before them, and, if they choose, in our coun-
try, they may gorge themselves to overflowing.
You do not stop to ask them if they have esten
sufficient, and ask them now to desist, and eat
moderately. You will let your children eat
green apples and berries of any kind; sit down
and eat fat meat, if they choose it and like it;
and fill their systems with swine flesh, which
is more susceptible of diseases than any other
flesh that we eat. It is not like fish or fowl.
It is susceptible of disease of every kind, and
will impregnate the system with disease far
quicker than any other food that we eat. Now,
mothers, it is well for you to think of these
things. I will tell you how you can enjoy
health. You let your children have a little
milk in the morning. I would prefer putting
it over the fire and boiling it, and put one-
third water in it, with a little flour and a par-
ticle of salt to make it palatable. Give them a
little bread with it—-not soft bread, teach your
children to eat crust—hard baked bread, that
the Americans would call stale, but the Eng-
lish would not. Teach them to eat this, and
to eat sparingly. Instead of drinking un-
healthy water, boil such waters, and let it
stand until it is cool. If the children are in
the least troubled with summer complaint,
and are weak in their bowels, make a weak
composition tea, sweeten it with loaf sugar,
and put a little nice cream in it; and let the
children make a practice of drinking composi-
tion instead of cold water. Mothers, keep the
children from eating meat; and let them eat
vegetables that are fully matured, not unripe,

[Column 2]
and bread that is well baked, not soft. Do not
put your loaf into the oven with a fire hot
enough to burn it before it is baked through, but
with a slow heat, and let it remain until it is
perfectly baked; and I would prefer, for my
own eating, each and every loaf to be no thick-
er than my two hands—can you tell how thick
they are—and I would want the crust as thick
as my hand.
	Now for experience. You see I am creeping
up into years; and I have been from my boy-
hood a person of observation. I have many
and many a time said to children when they
begged for the soft bread, that was not baked
thoroughly, "Look here; you will not live
very long; you will probably come to a prema-
ture grave.” I have noticed invariably the
child that selects the soft bread to be a short
lived person. The children that hunt around
after the crust and eat it, I have noticed en-
dure, live, and continue to live on. Have you
ever noticed this? I have quite aged sisters
here; and I am talking to many that have
children, grand-children, and great-grand-child-
ren, like myself. Have you ever observed this?
If you have not I wish you would commence
to reflect upon it.
	You say you are improving. These societies
are for improvement of our manners, our dress,
our habits, and our methods of living. Now,
sisters take notice, and instruct those who are
not here to-day, to adopt this rule—stop your
children from eating meat, and especially fat
meat; let them have composition to drink in-
stead of unhealthy water; let them eat a little
milk porridge; let them eat sparingly and not
oppress the stomach so as to create a fevar.
No matter whether it is a child or a middle-
aged person, whenever the stomach is over-
loaded and charged with more than is required
it creates a fever; this fever creates sickness,
until death relieves the sufferer. Now the peo-
ple do not think of this. You ought to have
thought of it. I have taught this for years
and years to the people. When we commence
to shape our lives according to the judgment
that is given us, and we exercise a proper por-
tion of thought, and study the laws of life, to
know what to give and how to guide and di-
rect our children and ourselves, we shall find
that the longevity of the people will increase.
Although it is a fact that the longevity of this
people is as great perhaps as that of any other
people at the present time; yet we shall find if
we will hearken to the wisdom our Heavenly
Father has given us, this will increase; and we
shall learn at once that we are enjoying better
health, we shall have greater amount of vital-
ity, and a stronger development of ability, and
by temperance and moderation lay the founda-
tion for the development of the mind. Now,
here let me throw in a side remark. I do not
mean to go without food and go to fasting.
This is the other extreme. A sufficient
amount of food that will agree with the stom-
ach is healthy, and should be partaken of.
Aged or middle-aged, youth or children should
never go without food until their stomachs are
faint, demanding something to sustain their
systems, and continue to undergo this; for this
lays the foundation of weakness, and this
weakness will tempt disease. But keep the
stomach in a perfectly healthy condition. Now
I do not mean fasting, but eating moder-
ately, and if my sisters will go home and com-
mence to adopt this rule, you will find that
you begin to get better, your children and
neighbors will get better. We do not expect
all to be free from sickness. I have had a
great deal of sickness in my life, I do not ex-
pect to be free from the ills, the weakness de-
bility and disease that prey upon the human

[Column 3]
family, but we can amend our ways, and
amend our life by being prudent; and I wish
the sisters to understand this, and to adopt
these instructions; and if you do not learn be-
fore the month of July is gone that your sick-
ness has departed, I shall be very much disap-
pointed. So much for the health of the people.
Will you listen?
			[To be continued.]


﻿OBITUARY:—It becomes our painful duty to
record the death of our beloved sister Eunice
Haynes; who departed this life on Saturday,
Oct. 13. 1877. She died as she had lived, a true
Saint of God, with the hope of a glorious resur-
rection. She was born in the town of Rowe,
Mass., Sept. 28, 1812. She became a member
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints in the year 1843. In the winter of 1846,
in company with her former husband, Walter
Fuller, and five children, she went to New
York for the purpose of emigrating, with a
company of saints who sailed from that port
on the 4th of February in the ship Brooklyn.
Being disappointed in this, she remained in
New York City four years, during which time
she was left without a companion. In 1850
she with her children, went to St. Louis, Mo.
and in Apr. 1852, she was married to John G.
B. Haynes. She had suffered many privations
and hardships which she bore with patience
and fortitude. She emigrated to Salt Lake
City in the Year 1854; has been a member of
the Relief Society of the Third Ward since its
first organization. She was president of the
teachers, always active in the discharge of her
duties which were faithfully performed. She
was ever ready to minister to the sick, the poor,
and the needy.
	We shall miss her in our little circle, but we
know that “our loss, is her eternal gain.”
		MRS. ELIZABETH WEILER, Pres’t.
		ZURVIAH G. EARDLEY, Secretary.


DIED, in Spanish Fork, July 1877, Annie
Marie Christiansen, born June 20, 1818, emi-
grated to this country July 21 1868. She was
a true Latter-day Saint and a faithful worker
in the Relief Society.


DIED, Aug. 14, 1877, Susan Hodgson, born
March 5, 1843. A husband and seven children
are left to mourn the loss of a faithful wife,
loving mother and a true Latter-day Saint.


SPRINGDALE, Oct. 6th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONET:
 On the 22nd of last July, a Relief Society
was organized at this place, with Mrs. Susan
K. Greene President; Mary E, Greene, first,
and Susan E. Homer, second counselors;
Sarah A. Millet Secretary, and Emily Hep-
worth assistant Secretary.  There were present
Bishop Charles N. Smith of Rockville, Elders
Evan M. Greene, John C. Hall and others.
much good instruction was given by the breth-
ren.  We are but few in number, only fifteen
in all; but we rejoice in the Latter-day work
and in our ability to assist its progress, though
in a small way, yet with our whole hearts.
We are in very moderate circumstances finan-
cially, but our trust is in God, that the way
may be opened for us to aid in gathering scat-
tered Israel.
 Ever praying for the spread of truth, we are
your co-workers in the Gospel.
SUSAN K. GREENE, Prest.
SARAH E. MILLET Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
	Synopsis of Annual Meeting of the First
Ward Relief Society, held Thursday June
7, 1877.  After the usual exercises, the
President, Mrs. Chase, made some appro-
priate remarks and introduced Mrs. M. I.
Horne to the audience.  Mrs. Horne ad-
dressed the sisters on the subject of home-
industries, referred specially to the silk-
culture and the tannery, also to the saving
of grain, the building of Temples and the
Woman's Store.  Mrs. Prescendia Kimball
arose and said she felt that Mrs. Horne had
just about summed up the whole field of
salvation for the human race.  One thing
we had which we should justly appreciate,
the fulness of the priesthood, the new and
everlasting covenant by which men and
women can attain unto an exaltation.
These principles, which embrace plural
marriage, should be taught to the daughters
of Zion in such a manner that they may
never allow themselves to speak against
them. Mrs. B. W. Smith remarked so
many good things had been said that she
felt refreshed, and the dinner the sisters
had prepared was refreshing too, especially
the strawberries, which were really delic-
ious.  The brethren taught the same things
that the sisters were teaching.  The com-
plete organization of the church is grand.
The Twelve to preach the Gospel to all the
world, and the First Presidency to watch
over all the organizations. The sisters
should teach their children to pray, and to
begin when young to pay tithing.  We
should watch ourselves and guard those un-
der our care faithfully.  We pray to the
Lord to watch over His kingdom here and
fulfill all righteousness.  We must do our
part. That we may be faithful to every
duty and be prepared to dwell in the pres-
ence of God, is my prayer.  Mrs. M. P.
Young expressed her pleasure in being as-
sociated with her sisters; spoke of home
industry and sustaining each other; also of
being in the United Order; that if we were
thus associated it would be like one strong
cord binding us together, and if one started
off to go alone the cord would be weakened,
but each one that is added makes the cord
stronger.
	Mrs. Lydia Ann Wells said she felt the
kingdom of God was rolling on very fast:
she never realized the extent of the work
of the redemption of the dead as she had
since she had been in the Temple at St.
George.  There were heavenly influences
there.  She loved her religion and desired
to live faithful to every principle contained
in it.  She felt she could bear testimony to
the principles of plural marriage, and taught
her children always to respect it.
	Mrs. Martin B. Young bore her testimony
to the work of the Latter days. She de-
sired to lend her influence toward the es-
tablishment of home manufactures. She
was interested in them all, and the silk-
culture was one of the subjects now before
the Relief Societies.  We should do all we
could in that direction as well as lay up
dried fruit, and dried corn which was an
excellent variety of food in the winter sea-
son.  Pickles was another variety that
could be made at home, they were much
better in quality than those imported; for
those from abroad contained adulterations
which were unwholesome.  In Zion things
prepared by our own people were blessed to
us. Mrs. W. East rejoiced in the privi-
leges and blessings of the Holy Gospel;
said she had received the testimony of Je-
sus, and could say as He said on one occas-
ion, these are my fathers, mothers, broth-
ers and sisters who do the will of God.  She
often contrasted her feelings when left to
herself and when filled with the spirit of
God. The work of God is rolling onward,
do not stand still but put your shoulder to
the wheel and help.  Do not oppose any
principle revealed, even though we may not
be able to see it clearly.  The Lord had
shown her and many other sisters the truth
in regard to plural marriage.  A veil is
drawn between us and the future which we
cannot pierce with our natural eye.  Those
who laid the foundation of this principle
have paved the way, yet no man or woman
could bring forth this mighty work alone,
it was and is beyond their power.  Men
and women without the blessing of God
and His assistance could never establish
home industries.  Great and mighty events
are transpiring and are about to transpire,
and in whatever position we may be called
to labor we are blessed.  When the elders
go among the nations the Lord watches
over them; here we are where the Lord has,
blessed us, and let us be wise virgins.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells bore testimony upon
plural marriage, related a little of her prac-
tical experience on the subject.  Said she
had formed many pleasant and tender as-
sociations which she trusted would be last-
ing, and she hoped to be associated with
those (who had in passing through this
school of discipline become so dear to her)
throughout the endless ages of eternity.
That many thought it was a terrible thing,
but she had found happiness in it.  She al-
so spoke on the storing of grain, of the la-
bor and care it would be for the sisters, but
believed they would be blest in it beyond
what had been anticipated.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney thought that the the-
ory of our religion was good, but we must
live it practically in order to receive the
benefit. We are all organized and classi-
fied in ourselves some of us have capacity
and ability for certain duties and others for
other duties, all of use to make up a whole
and perfect organization.  If we would
seek to understand ourselves and study
good books we could enrich our minds very
much, and we have the sentiments in our
own books and papers, our home literature
that is good for the youth and the aged.
We must add to our libraries.  I've made
it a point to read our Church Books, and
there are powerful testimonies in them of
the truth, some of us have abilities that
are not brought into use, we have not had
advantages in the past as we have now.
The Lord will help us if we look to Him
for assistance and guidance.  I once heard
Br. Brigham Young say "what am I expect
what God has made me?"  The Lord will
qualify His servants and handmaidens for
whatever position He calls upon them to
fill. She made some remarks upon home
industries, the land, the mulberry trees,
the Babylonish customs and fashions, re-
marked that the world was filling up the
cup of iniquity.
	Miss E. R. Snow then addressed the
meeting: said she had sat and feasted on
the words of the sisters; many subjects had
been brought forward that were of great
importance to this people.  Remarked we
were not sent here to consult our own con-
sciences.  She herself entered into the
United Order when she received the Gos-
pel; her whole soul was in the work she
had then embraced, and unless she could
live to accomplish something of worth, she
had no desire for life; her heart was in the
work, and yet how little it seemed one per-
son could do in comparison to the great
work to be accomplished.  The prophet Jo-
seph, in his lifetime, had said whenever
the Church was fully organized there would
always be a Relief Society, and every vir-
tous woman should be a member: chastity
was the test.  We are now so organized
that in doing our duty we are a strong
band, and we can accomplish a great deal
in one grand phalanx, and it is necessary
we should be united.  Are we exercising
all our abilities, all our influence for Zion?
We must put our trust in God, round up
our shoulders, and help to accomplish the
Storing of Grain for Zion.  The Lord has
not called upon us too soon; we can't do
too much in the right direction, and at the
right time.  We had our Grain Mission
late last fall, but we made a good beginning.
Miss Snow alluded to a conversation she
had with a brother in regard to storing up
grain, shortly after the mission had been
given to the sisters.  This brother inquired
of her whether she thought it necessary for
the people in the section of country where
he resided to store up grain, remarking
that it was a grain country, an agricultural
district.  Miss Snow answered him by ask-
ing the question whether they had good
crops secured to them for the next fifty
years.  The brother concluded that it would
be consistent for the sisters to store some
grain.  Miss Snow continued:  "We are co-
operating together—our interests are one,
and all tend to the same object, if we are
working with a true purpose in view." She
considered a sister who stepped forward
and assisted efficiently in home industries,
the silk culture, etc., was doing just as
much as an Elder who went forth to preach
the Gospel.  We must be clothed, and we
ought to manufacture our own cloth; and
to-day there is not as much interest mani-
fested in the subject as there was before
machinery was brought into the country.
We must stop this importation of Babylon-
ish goods.  We have not at present the ma-
chinery here we ought to have to aid us in
home enterprises.  Can the sisters do any-
thing in this direction?  How many of the
sisters in this house have homemade ap-
parel on?  Unless we are saved temporally,
it is useless to talk about being saved spir-
itually.  How many of the sisters here are
represented through home-manufacture in
the "Woman's Store?"  We have visitors
coming there from various nations to see
our home productions; we can represent
you there; it is a testimony that they can
take away with them.  They look around
and see the products of our hands.  Miss
Snow said, "You and I, my sisters, have a
responsibility resting upon us, but I do not
want to stand here making repetitions. I
am happy in my duties, because I know I
am working in the right direction.  We,
my sisters, can dispense with a great many
things, if we only think so.  I would nat-
urally like to have everything elegant and
beautiful around me, but I adapt myself to
my circumstances.  We must make our own
ornaments, our own clothing, and beautify
our own houses.  In the Woman's Store we
have the opportunity of bearing strong tes-
timonies; strangers in calling there are con-
vinced we are an industrious people. Many
good, candid people visit us."  Miss Snow,
in closing her remarks, said "God bless you
and strengthen your hands to labor, and
may you become so interested in Zion and
her future welfare, that you may be able to
rise above all the little perplexities and
annoyances of this life."  Miss Snow then
referred to a lady she had met in Athens,
Greece, whose father printed the first edi-
tion of the Book of Mormon.  This lady
had asked her plain, matter-of-fact questions
about plural marriage:  How men supported
many wives, how they lived together, etc.;
said she did not know what she should do


if her husband was commanded to take
other wives. Miss Snow replied to her,
“Supposing you know that the Lord had
appointed you to do a certain work, that
you had actually come here upon this earth
to perform that peculiar work, would you
not forget all about your own selfish feelings
and go to with all your might in order to
fill that mission?” This is the magnanim-
ity women show who enter into plural mar-
riage; and it refines and elevates them, and
is, one of the greatest cultivators in the
world. It helps womem to become sancti-
fied and holy, and have their names asso-
ciated with holy men, with Apostles and
men of God.
	Miss Snow then introduced to the assem-
bly Mrs. E. A. Whitney, who sang “A Song
of Zion."
	Mrs. Chase, President of the Society,
made a few remarks, expressing herself
pleased with the good instructions of the
sisters. Referred to the cultivation of a
spiritual disposition and gave her ideas of
the union that should  exist among the
Saints.  She felt it was good to have help
from her counselors, and to be united with
them in all duties.
	Counselor Margaret Steel said she was
glad to hear the glorious things that had
been spoken; she felt they had good sisters
in the First Ward, who were prompt in at-
tending their meetings. She made some
excellent remarks about the sisters taking
the EXPONENT; said she felt it was full of
the spirit of the Gospel; thought many
more of the sisters ought to take it and
would be blest in doing so.
	Mrs. E. Higgs thanked the sisters who
had spoken, for their good counsel and in-
struction; said she felt blest in doing her
duty, even in the smallest things; rejoiced
in the work of the Gospel.
	Bishop Warburton spoke encouragingly
to the sisters, applauded their good words
and works; acknowledged the help the Re-
lief Society had given him in assisting him
to care for the Ward, and thanked God for
their assistance.  He blest the sisters who
spent so much of their time in going from
ward to ward and trying to strengthen and
help the different branches of the Society,
felt the blessing of God would rest down
upon them; and desired the day to roll on
when Jesus should reign King of nations,
as he now does King of Saints.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A VOICE FROM DIXIE LAND	

Though we in this the southern extremity
of our Territory, this remote, obscure cor-
ner of the earth have been, as it were, shut
out from society and the world in general,
by rugged rocks and barren sand-plains, and
have fancied ourselves secure from the out-
side element, which has been floating
through other parts of the Territory, on ac-
count of the almost impassable roads which
have to be traversed to reach us, the mines
which have been opened up in this vicinity
are beginning to dispel such illusions. They
are, and will be, the means of introducing
into our midst (with the aid of some who
think more of a few dimes than of their
religion, or the well-being of the communi-
ty) the filth and corruption which usually
attend, and I may say are the predominat-
ing  elements of mining camps. Some of
the settlements not far distant from St.
George are already beginning to feel the
effects of their close proximity to these
camps, with their accompanying dens of
vice and iniquity, and their corrupt, de-
graded inhabitants; not but there may be
and are, many honorable men who follow
the occupation of mining, and upon this
class I desire not to cast an unjust, or an un-
fair reflection.
	Up to the present time this has usually
been a quiet little place, with little or
nothing to break the monotony of every-
day life. Many of our young people, who
have lived here since early childhood, know
nothing of the outside world, except what
they have read and heard.
	But will that always be the case? I fear
not; the indications at present are, that
this quiet little nook, where a few years
ago every face we met was familiar, will
soon be overrun with tramps, and a disrep-
utable class of various grades. Now the
question arises, to what class of men will
these terms apply? I will give my version,
though I may be wrong.
 The first is the man who is honorable
enough to show his colors; who is too idle
and shiftless to work and gain an honest
livelihood, and makes the fact manifest by
wandering about from place to place in filth
and rags, obtaining a subsistence as best he
can by sponging, and, when hard pushed,
will perhaps resort to theft; and though
many of them are dangerous characters,
they are no worse than their appearance
would indicate, so that people may be on
their guard.
	Another class, from whom there is much
to fear and dread, are men who make a fine
appearance, whose apparel is faultless, who
are well-behaved, and to all outward ap-
pearances are real gentleman. But oh! if
we could only have a view of the inner life,
what would we discover? A fiendish de-
sire to destroy that which is pure and chaste;
a heart susceptible only of the basest pas-
sions, black as midnight, and callous with
continued disipation and vice, until con-
science has forgotten her duty, and is for-
ever silenced. And is it possible that such
fiends in human shape, fit inmates for the
lower regions, and to become subjects of
his Satanic Majesty, the lowest of the low,
have led astray some of the daughters of
Zion? Yea, verily. And how have they
accomplished their wicked designs?  Often
by subtle hipocrisy; by polite attentions
and studied consideration; by flattery and
vain praise, and in various ways; thus be-
traying gradually and dragging them down
to misery, degradation and sorry, from
whence it is hard for them ever to rise; and
never can they attain their former position
of purity. I believe this, in many instan-
ces, is caused from a lack of proper training
and good counsel and watchcare by parents;
and often, no doubt, from a vain and fool-
ish desire to be noticed and flattered.
	O my sisters! is it for this our parents
have left their homes in far-off countries,
traversed the trackless deserts, and suffered
the privations and hard strife incidental to
the settling this rugged, barren country? to
raise daughters who will disgrace and dis-
honor their gray hairs? And will we, the
young women of the South, who have had
every advantage of being taught better,
who are blessed with a beautiful and holy
Temple in our midst, a sacred buillding 
reared to the name of the Most High God,
a house into which we are privileged to en-
ter and receive blessings which we can re-
ceive no where else on earth, shall we fall
from our high estate and forfeit these great
blessings, and receive condemnation? God
forbid. Rather let our bodies be laid in an
untimely grave, with a spotless, unblem-
ished name, and our spirits return to our
Father, pure as when they came. For what
would life be without virtue? Only a bur-
then and a curse. Then let us, my young
sisters, shun the very appearance of evil,
be very circumspect in our conduct, and
never allow any familiarity, or impropriety
in the demeanor of our associates; let us
hold our name and reputation so sacred that
no spot or blemish shall tarnish them.
	But we know not what we may do until
we are tried by circumstances. But my
prayer is that we may take warning by the
experience of others, listen to the good
counsel which we receive, and remain firm
and true to the gospel of truth, never swerv-
ing from the path of virtue and integrity,
truth and honor, until the end.
	St. George, Oct. 27, 1877. 	KATE.


HER OWN EMANCIPATOR.

	I do wish wish papa wouldn’t frown so every
time I ask him for a little money, I haven't
got a single new article to wear at Mrs.
H-----s reception and it will be such a bril-
liant affair I know, for Judge Harcourt’s
daughter is going to make her first appear-
ance in an elegant satin just imported from
Paris, and the Lancott’s displayed their
new silks expressly made for the occasion,
just to mortify me. Oh dear, what am I
put into this world for if I can’t enjoy it as
others do!"
	Such and similar exclamations find ut-
terance with our gay young girls at every
little disappointment. To them life is a
ceaseless round of sensation, pleasure, gos.
sip and vexations. Their tireless brains
are forever employed in devising new plans
to outrival others in apprearance. "What
will I wear? What will they say? Will
I be admired?" Are the three absorbing 
questions on her shopping tour, during her
social visits, and in her privte apartment 
before the looking glass. Even her lover 
knows how best to possess himiself of her
favor, for he never feails to supply himself
with an abundant store of flattery, so pleas-
ing to such a woman's ear.
 But in justice to those whose idea of life
is this suggested, I must add that in many
this is but the external, the false substi-
tute of that inner life which contains no-
bler thoughts, higher aspirations that the
world dreams of. That inner life is secret-
ed in the recess of her heart undeveloped;
its owner is scarecely aware of its presence
unless occasion calls forth its hidden pow-
er and makes woman what she should be,
strong in her own right, independent and
self-reliant in her undertakings. But those
faculties rarely make their presence felt in
her actual life, for public sentiment frowns
severely on any woman who dares venture
out of her supposed sphere. They are not
allowed to think or act for themselves; how
could they if htey figured as mere slaves
and toys in the eyes of men? And if for-
merly a solitary wall or protest agaisnt this 
injustice was heard, and known to strike
the chord of sympathy in the kindred
hearts of their sister sufferers, it was quick-
ly smothered by the overwhelming voice of 
public opinion that despotic power which
has so long held women in subjection.
     But a new era has dawned for women.
What was years ago whispered in privacy
under the seal of secrecy, is now publicly
discussed in society; womans inner, nobler
life is coming to the surface, and, in spite
of every obstacle, developing itself with
marked rapidity. Emboldened by the con-
sciousness of their ability they are gradu-
ally rising one by one to appreciate and de-
mand their rights. The doors of universi-
ties and colleges are yielding to the per-
sistent demand for admission; the fields of
industry and progress are open for the ex-
ercise of their ingenuity and skill and wo-


man, single handed and alone, can in every
avenue of labor work her way with profit
to an independent, comfortable position.
T' is true, a woman's first attention should
always be directed to the home circle, but if
she has no domestic affairs to attend to,
should she then in that case be supported
in idleness by the industries of others?
She has a right to engage in business where
her talents may be a source of benefit to
the community; and being in business,
paying taxes, ought to give her an equal
right to the privileges of the ballot.  Of all
the wrongs against which women have bat-
tled, taxation without representation is the
greatest and most difficult to remove.
	But, patience! the hour of deliverance
is near.  The early advocates of womans
rights are slowly but determinedly filing
away at the last link of that long chain of
difficulties which has been their work for
half a century to remove.  When that link
is severed, and those fetters mingle with
the dust at her feet, woman will stand be-
fore the world emancipated.  But to her-
self, and not to men, must she look for the
result.		BERTIE A. WINKLER
"Woman's Words."


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


DISSIPATION.—There are three kinds of
dissipation in the world—white red, and
black dissipation. White, dissipation is the
waste of nerve and excessive use of the
brain; there are pious dissipation, scholarly
dissipation, business dissipation, the disi-
pation of the men who, with salutary shud-
ders, “thank God that they are not as oth-
er men are.” Bed dissipation is the dissi-
pation of increase of blood by luxurious
food, or the waste of blood by all those pass-
ions and indulgencies which come of luxu-
rious living. Black dissipation is that of
the grosser indulgencies which criminal
men seek. The first named is increassng
rapidly and taking the place of the lower
grades. The peculiar folly of our age is the
waste of nerve force. In all directions we
see the sign of brain dissipation. The dis-
eases of virtuous men are no longer what
they used to be—blood diseases. Paralysis
is beating up in every community and find-
ing recruits. Good men are living too fast.
Each man is swept up against his will into
the tumult of life. The great army of in-
somnists is increasing, and such men have
a call to lunacy.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	New Mode of Washing.—In the “Moniteur
Scientifique” Dr. Queonville describes something
new in washing, whereby our linen may be saved
from the destructive effects of soda and other
washing-powders. The plan has been extensively
adopted in Germany, and introduced into Belgium.
The operation consists in dissolving two pounds of
soap in about three gallons of water as hot as the
hand can bear, and adding to this one tablespoonful
of turpentine and three of liquid ammonia; the
mixture must then be well stirred, and the linen
steeped in it for two or three hours, taking care to
cover up the vessel containing them as nearly her-
metically as possible. The clothes are afterwards
washed out and rinsed in the usual way. The
soap and water may be re-heated and used a sec-
ond time, but in this case half a tablespoonful of
turpentine and a tablespoonful of ammonia must
be added. The process is said to cause a great
economy of time, labor and fuel. The linen
scarcely suffers at all, as there is little necessity
for rubbing, and its cleanliness and color are per-
fect. The ammonia and turpentine, although
their detersive action is great, have no injurious
effect upon the linen; and while the former evapor-
ates immediately, the smell of the latter is said to
disappear entirely during the drying of the clothes


NOTICE.
	There will be an annual meeting of the sev-
eral committees on Storing Grain, at the Coun-
cil House in this city, Saturday, Nov. 17th, at
2 o'clock p. m., sharp.  Presidents and Secre-
taries of Societies who have been engaged in
Storing Grain for Zion, will please report as
soon as possible by letter to the President of
Central Committee, the amount of grain they
have on hand, how it is stored and what are
their future prospects in this work, in order
that the Central Committee may make a full
and clear as well as definite report of all grain
stored for Zion, and held in trust in the hands
of women.  A punctual attendance of all the
sisters of the Societies in this city, or near lo-
calities, is desired.

	                     FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style.  Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
							JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
    Salt Lake City.						97 Kimball Block.

                 The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

    Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner.  Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
						GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
								Proprietors. 

		               NEW FALL STOCK.
                        F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
           55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY. 
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuff and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
    Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Roots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods.  Etc., Etc.

			SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.

Call at the Constitution Building, Salt Lake City, and ex-
amine the large stock of goods just received from the
Mill, consisting of Fine White and Colored Yarns, Flan-
nels, Linseys, Etc.
						JOHN C. CUTLER,
								AGENT.

				          ROWE'S
				      CELEBRATED 
                    HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
                               Big Boot, Main Street.
                       No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.
                           VISITORS TO CONFERENCE
                             Amply Repaid by Visiting
                                           TEASDEL'S
                                               FOR
                                    FAMILY SUPPLIES
                                                FOR
                               FALL AND WINTER WEAR.

					    Z. C. M. I. 
                           Wholesale and Retail Dealing
                                        in all kinds of 
                      DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
                           HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
                              GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
                                 STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
                      AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c. 

					DAVID JAMES,
                         (Successor to Mitchell & Jawes) 
                       Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
                                       AGENT FOR
          RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
                         Pumps Repaired on short notice.
           Orders from the country promptly responded to.
              Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City. 

				     THE FINE ARTS.
   The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
   We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G.M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are put at living rates.
    We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
    A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos, and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
                   Send your orders to          C. R. SAVAGE, 
                                                         Salt Lake City, Utah. 

				PIANOS & ORGANS,
       Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
                                  for five years, on 
                                    INSTALMENTS
                                  OF ONE, TWO OR
                                     THREE YEARS.
    Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six-
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged.  Send to
us for catalogues and further information.
						CALDER & CARELESS.

                                   MRS. C. E. DYE,
             Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
             In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches.  Good work guaranteed.

                                 NOTICE TO THE LADIES. 
        THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
                                           DRY GOODS,
                                                  IS AT
                                      SCHWARTZ' STORE,
                  Opposite the Herald Office.  Remember all.

                                        H. DINWOODEY.
                      WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
                                          FURNITURE
                        SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
                                    Feathers, Wall Paper
                                                  AND
                                       BABY CARRIAGES.
                 75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1877.	No. 13.


"THE REIGN OF THE CONSTITUTION AND LAWS HAS
	BEEN RESTORED" (IN UTAH.)
—JAMES BUCHANAN'S MESSAGE TO CONGRESS.
	RESPONSE.

Tell Congress, sir, that yonder sun
	Will nature’s laws obey,
And has, accordingly, begun
	To shed the solar ray.
Announce to Congress that the moon
	Will yield obedience
To Nature, and will, therefore, soon
	Her honored light dispense.
Say too, the twinkling orbs of night
	Will now in order move—
Thenceforth they’ll decorate with light
	The galaxy above
Tell Congress that the Seasons n[-]w,
	In strictest loyalty
To Nature's Constitution, bow
	With all fidelity. 
Let Congress know the orbs above
	Have all agreed to shine—
The seasons, in their course to move,
	Have formed a late design. 
Or else announce one fact instead,
	Which long will be deplored,
That wisdom to our Nation's head
	Has not its "reign restored."
QUERY: Where have the Constitution and laws reigned
during the last two years but in Utah?	E. R. Snow
G. S. L. City, Aug. 4, 1858,


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
	AFTER LONG YEARS.

	LETTER III.

	Tread softly through the halls of olden time,
	List to the music of the echoes there—
	Reverberating solemn and sublime,
	Mellow'd in cadence yet in sweetness rare.
	
	Beautiful thoughts are oft awakened by
some rude scene of Nature's decay, or per-
chance some old sentiment is revived by
listening to "a song of other days." It
strikes a sympathetic chord in the soul, and
anon the harp once properly attuned to the
harmonies of life, but which has long been
hung upon the willows, is inadvertently
tonched and for a moment sends forth its
notes again in a minor key, corresponding
to the inner music of the soul. It brings
back the pleasure of the time when all un-
conscious of the future we reveled in the
very luxury of innocence and mirth. When
our eyes opened to all that was lovable
around us, and our hearts were impulsively
susceptible to tender emotions, when we
drank first at the fountain of love and be-
lieved in its ideal visions. Years tone
down much of the enthusiasm of the young;
a calmer and more pathetic feeling takes
the place of the exuberance of spirits, but
yet there is a subdued and cultivated senti-
ment that is still in keeping with the true
elements of life.
	We should have charity for one another.
It is well to judge carefully, for how can
one tell what another may have had to en-
dure? We make but sorry judges in our
own weakness; life is so unlike in its
phases, and all have their own peculiar ex-
periences, which act upon them according
to their circumstances and surroundings;
and the condition of the person mentally,

[Column 2]
physically, and perhaps spiritually. In
looking around,or in considering our friends,
we find much thought for reflection, aside
from differences in character and tempera-
ment, there are incidents in certain lives
which render persons perhaps gloomy, mo-
rose, irritable and disagreeable. In many
instances all these are, or may be the re-
sult of sad experiences and bitter disap-
pointments.
	There is scarcely a human heart so hard
that it cannot be softened by some remem-
brance of the past. Those, who after years
wasted in dissipation and folly, care noth-
ing for the future, have no hopes, no trust,
no faith, are seldom oblivious of the past;
recall to them some reminiscence of their
childhood, or mother, or home, and see if
deep down in the recesses of their soul
there is not a treasured memory that wells
up and finds vent, if not in words, in tears,
or in a stifled sob. Many are the precious
golden links that bind our hearts to the
friends and scenes of other days; simple
things in themselves, yet magnetic in
charm, and powerful in their hold upon
memory. A lock of hair carefully laid
away, a letter faded and worn, these and a 
thousand other tender mementoes are oft
times the choicest treasures of men and
women of the highest type of character,
men and women who possess affection of
the loftiest tone and sublimity.
	AUNT EM.


CO-EDUCATION IN NEW ZEALAND.

	At the presentation of the B. A. degree
to Miss Edgar, at Auckland, on the 12th of
August, the Bishop of Auckland said:—

	I salute the oldest, and at the same time
the youngest Bachelor of Arts who is a lady,
in New Zealand or the British Empire. I
may say that I myself submitted no higher
intellectual test for other degrees than that
which has admitted to that degree. As to
the value of the degree now conferred on
Miss Edgar, I can testify that the chairman
has said nothing more than is literally true
when he said it was quite as good, and
in some respects more valuable, than an or-
dinary B. A. degree conferred by Cam-
bridge; certainly in my time. There are
many matters in connection with this sub-
ject, on which this community might be
congratulated. The admission of a lady to
this degree is the triumph of a great princi-
ple. Ladies have sought to be admitted
to degrees at Edinburgh, if not at other uni-
versities, and have been refused.
	The Rev. B. Bruce, as a member of the
Senate of New Zealand University, said:
As to the value of the degree itself, I may
tell you that what has already been said of
this degree does not distinctly point out the
very high character of it as an academical
standard. It is customary to estimate the
value of these things by comparison. Now,
the standard of examination in some Scotch
Universities is even higher than that of
Cambridge. The standard of the Univer-
sity of Victoria, was, until lately, the high-
est, but the standard of the University of
New Zealand is even higher than that of
Victoria. It is now the highest in the


world for admission to a B. A. degree; such
a degree as Miss Edgar has obtained.
 Miss Edgar has already received an ap-
pointment in the Canterbury Ladies' Col-
lege, with an emolument of [pound sign]300 a year.--
"The New Zealand Queenslander."


MISCELLANEOUS.

   THERE are circumstances in life when
speed is folly, and to be slow is to be almost
insured to safety.  Take friendship as an
example. How many of us are apt to run
headlong into those pleasant bonds of affec-
tion for well-seeming and charming people,
of whom in reality we know nothing, only
to find that seeming and being are by no
means interchangeable terms, and that what
we took to be harmony with ourselves turns
out to be discord instead!
"MAN of leisure" is the polite term for a
genteel drone.  We call his ragged, penni-
less fellow-sluggard with unkempt hair and
unwashed face a "loafer;" but as the former
manifests some respect for the decencies of
life, and has the wherewithal to pay his
way instead of begging it, we dignify him
with the title of "man of leisure."  Mor-
ally, however, the twain are fellow-tribes-
men.  There is no essential difference be-
tween them, the only disparity being in
their pecuniary circumstances and methods
of wasting time.  Both are lazy; neither
fulfills the purpose for which he was created.

PARENT AND CHILD.--Charity is not the
only quality which begins at home.  It is
throwing away money to spend a thousand
a year on the teaching of three boys, if
they are to return from school only to find
the older members of their family intent on
amusing themselves at any cost of time and
trouble, or sacrificing self-respect in ignoble
efforts to struggle into a social grade above
their own.  The child will never place his
aims high and pursue them steadily unless
the parent has taught him what energy and
elevation of purpose mean, not less by ex-
ample than by precept.


FLORAL HINTS.

	PRESERVING FLOWERS, ETC.——Many
flowers and leaves may be beautifully pre-
served by covering them in every part with
melted sperm. The best way is to cut a
candle into pieces and melt it in an old sau-
cer on the back of the range—it must not
be hot enough to smoke. First dip in the
stems, the sperm will harden almost at
once. so that the stem may be held while
immersing the flower or blade of the leaf.
Dip but once and that quickly. The pro-
cess is too severe for delicate petals, melt-
ing them as it were together, of others
heat will change the colors. Variegated
leaves, such as those of the Pelargoniums,
Maples, Ivies and fancy-leaved Caladiums
will perhaps give the best satisfaction.
When arranged into bouquets or wreaths
they are less liable to curl if protected by
a glass globe, like those used for wax flow-
ers; still, if not so protected, with a little
care in a coolish atmosphere they will re-
tain their form and colors for months.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

SPANISH FORK, Oct. 27, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
I send you a few lines to let your readers
know that the Relief Society here are anx-
ious to do their part in all the various duties
and requirements of the times; especially
in regard to Storing Grain for Zion, a re-
port of which will be sent as directed in
your issue of the 15th.  Silk raising has not 
been lost sight of, although but little has been
done the past season, we hope for better
things in the future, for this truly useful
branch of industry, as our President and 
many others are awake to its importance.
At the annual meeting of the Society held
the second day of July last, an increase of
members, and a good financial condition
was reported.
	Our first meeting after the death of our
beloved President Brigham Young was a 
very solemn one; all present feeling the 
loss of him who had, under God led Israel
so long and so faithfully.  Many of the sis-
ters spoke with much feeling, and express-
ed a determination to carry out in the fu-
ture more fully the counsels he had given
us; also recognizing this to be the kingdom
of God, and upholding  and sustaining who-
ever may be appointed to guide and direct
its affairs on the earth.  The Epistle of the
Twelve to the saints was read and all felt
comforted.
	Among other plans for saving grain, it
was proposed that all the sisters that could,
should go to the fields and glean, which was
heart[-]lly responded to. The result was
twenty-five bushels more of wheat to add
to Zion's granary.  The young ladies of the
Mutual Improvement Society, who are also
members of the Relief Society, had a glean-
ing "bee" and also gathered nearly twenty-
five bushels of wheat and finished the day
with a ball in the City Hall which was
quite an enjoyable affair.  Two of our mem-
bers have been called away by death during
the past year; at the request of their friends
I send their obituary notices.
	The spirit of union is increasing among
us. With love to all who love our Lord and
Savior Jesus Christ in sincerity and truth,
we remain your sisters in the Gospel.
				MARY FERGUSON, Pres't
		HANNAH CORNABY, Cor. Sec'y.

	SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 31st, 1877.
	Minutes of a Special Meeting of the
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association,
held in the Eighth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Oct. 31st, 1877.
	Usual opening exercises; minutes read
and accepted.  By invitation of Counselor
Sarah Jane Chamberlain, Mrs. Elizabeth
Howard made some very good remarks, of
which the following is a synopsis:  "I am
well satisfied with your minutes, and am
glad to see so many young ladies present.
I advise the young to read church works.
You will yet see the day when you will be
thankful for these meetings.  We should
try to help in all home industries; we, as 
Latter-day Saints, should study economy;
we should not spend so much time and 
money on the foolish fashions, but save our
means to help build up the kingdom of
God."
	Mrs. M. I. Horne: " I am pleased to meet
with  you, and feel to thank my Heavenly
Father for his protecting care over us. I
advise you to watch and pray, and associate
with those who act from good principles;
there is a warfare before us, and we can
choose good or evil; if we are humble and
prayerful we will be able to conquer all
things.  Every one who is before me ought
to have a testimony of this work.  We are
not like the world, for with our husbands
we hold a portion of the priesthood; if we 
do not qualify ourselves, we cannot enter
the presence of our Father; it would not 
be appropriate or consistent if our husbands
were intelligent and we were the reverse.
The Lord gives us nothing to waste, and if 
we are wise we will dress neat and plain."
Mrs. Horne also spoke of the fault finding
spirit there is with those who do not try to 
live their religion.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney: " I feel at home in 
this meeting.  At the late Conference,
President Taylor said that every woman
should have a membership in the Relief
Society and in these Mutual Improvement
Associations.  Singing is a part of our re-
ligion, and I have been very much edified
with the singing this afternoon."  She 
spoke of obedience to parents, and the
principle of plural marriage, and made
other very interesting remarks.
	 Mrs. Zina Y. Williams: "I did not expect
to be called upon to-day.  Plural marriage
and the United Order should be taught at 
home by the  many trails attending it, but we
gain many blessings through it."  Spoke of 
the word of wisdom and plain living; we 
will live longer and be brighter stars in
Zion if we study the laws of nature.
	Bishop E. F. Sheets: "I feel to endorse
all that has been advanced by my sisters
this afternoon, and hope that each one will
bear it in mind and improve thereby."  It 
was moved and seconded to change the
name of our Society from Retrenchment to
Mutual Improvement Association.  Sisters
E. G. Barney and E. Snell were chosen as
Counselors. President Mary Leaver said 
she approved of what had been said.  She 
then invited the guests, the members of
the Association and the officers of the Re-
lief Society to partake of a supper at the 
Bishop's house after meeting.  Adjourned
for two weeks.  Benediction by Elder
Isaac Brockbank.
			MRS. M. S. LEAVER, President
			MISS S. A. HAWKINS, Secretary.


[Column 1]
SANTAQUIN, Nov. 4, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our Ninth Annual Meeting on 
Sept. 6th, 1877. Our reports were all read,
showing that we had received during the
year, $222, 73; disbursed during the year
to charitable and other needful purposes,
$120,29, leaving a balance of $102, 44. The
Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation held their 4th Annual Meeting at
the same time. Their reports were very
favorable. Our meeting was addressed by
Bishop George Halladay, and President E.
J. Stickney on matters pertaining to our
temporal as well as spiritual welfare. All
present seemed united and a good spirit
prevailed.
	Death has taken away one of our sisters,
Sarah Maria Wall. She died Oct. 27, 1877,
with the heart disease, aged 51 years and 8
months. She was a member of the choir,
a teacher in the Sunday School and a teach-
er in the Relief Society. All of these offices
she ever faithfully filled. She bore the tri-
als of life as a true woman and mother in
Israel should, being loving and kind to all
with whom she associated. She has left a
husband, five children, and a large circle of
friends to mourn her loss. She died as she
had lived a true Latter-day Saint.

[Column 2]
	The majority of the sisters are interested
in Storing Grain, according to the counsel
given by our beloved President Brigham
Young. We are striving in our weak way,
to obey the counsel of those placed over us,
and try to do all the good we can in helping
to build temples, taking care of the poor,
etc. We deeply mourn the loss of our be-
loved Prophet Brigham Young, and truly
sympathize with his family in their bereave-
ment.
	With the best of wishes for yourself and
our valuable paper, we remain your sisters
etc.	E. J. STICKNEY, President,
	ELIZABETH CARTER, Secretary.

SALT LAKE CITY, THIRD WARD,
	NOV. 12, 1877.

EDITOR EXPONENT.
	Always feelings anxious to mingle our
voices with our sisters of the Relief Socie-
ties, we send a brief sketch of our efforts
in the Third Ward. We are holding meet-
ings regularly three times a month, and
those that attend are united, we have teach-
ers appointed to visit and report once a
month, should there be any one in need
their wants may be administered to: a very
interesting meeting was held Oct. 10, Mrs.
Zina D. Young and Mrs. Prescinda Kimball
were present. There was a much larger at-
tendance than usual. These sisters gave us
some good instructions which we truly ap-
preciated, and it will long be remembered;
we are also trying to respond to the coun-
sels of our late beloved and esteemed Pres-
ident Brigham Young in storing up wheat.
Bishop Weiler kindly offered us a bin to
put it in and donated five bushels of wheat,
and several dollars in cash; several of the
sisters douate monthly for this purpose.
The EXPONENT is always welcome and read
with a great deal of interest.
	Ever with you in good works.
	MRS. ELIZABETH WEILER, Pres't.
	MRS. ZURVIAH G. EARDLEY, Scc'y.

	BEAVER CITY, Nov. 12, 1877.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The following is the Annual Report of
our Society, for the year beginning June,
1876, ending 1877:

	Receipts $ 277 10
	Disbursed to the poor 42 75
	Misionaries 99 65
	St. George Temple 81 00
	Repairs on Meeting House 43 70
	Total, 267 10
	Remaining in treasury 10 00
	In teasury, at present date, 110 35

	The society is in a thriving condition;
peace and union prevails, the meetings are
well attended, and all seem anxious to carry
out the wishes of our late President, par-
ticularly in regard to storing grain.
	Wishing success to your valuable paper,
and all the interests of Zion, we remain
your co-workers in the great Latter-day
work.
	Officers: Ruth W. Tyler, President; Eliza
W. Hawkins, and Ann Lewis, Counselors.
	MARY E. ASHWORTH, Sec'y.


AT THE recent Woman's Congress at
Cleveland, Mrs. Frances W. Harper, a col-
ored woman, read a paper "On the colored
women of America."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		99


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
	THE MOTHER'S DOMINION.

	"A nurse," to take care of my Treasures!
		No! cousin, I could not agree
	To grant to another the pleasures
		Which God has intended for me.
	"A girl just to take them out walking?"
		Why, I need, myself, the fresh air;
	And while we're thus socially talking,
		It's no task to watch them with care.

	My "talents need more cultivation:"
		Well, yes—but I sometimes reflect;
	And think that my home-education
		Has no cause to complain of neglect.
	I read and seek daily for knowledge,
		And hope, as a mother and wife,
	To prepare my own offspring for college,
		Or to fill worthy stations in life.

	True, I cannot study forever,
		Like the school girl who has but her book,
	But I'm striving as well, to be clever,
		As housekeeper, seamstress and cook.
	Yet all else I would freely surrender,
		Rooms, toilet, pantry and purse.
	Ere my darlings, so precious and tender,
		I'd leave to the care of a nurse.

	"With another I'll change"—Pretty cousin,
		You mistake, and perhaps you may blame:
	But should I have ten or a dozen,
		I hope you'll still find me the same;
	Except I become still more careful,
		More diligent, patient and just;
	More willing to serve and more prayerful,
		For th' souls which God gives me in trust.

	Oft times it is all that a mother
		Can do, to be wise with her own;
	Should she trust her pure gems with another,
		Whose feelings and traits are unknown?
	'Twere e'en better that calls be rejected,
		Though friendship be weakened or spoiled,
	Than an innocent child be neglected,
		Or one little spirit be soiled.

	I know those who give more attention
		To fashion, and things of that kind;
	But I keep for myself a prevention
		Of this fault, by bearing in mind
	The fact when we enter death's portal,
		such pleasures no longer we'll claim;
	But the souls of my babes are immortal,
		And will live to my glory, or shame.

	Dear cousin, when you are a mother,
		You'll see then, the same as I see;
	If faithful, you never can smother
		Such thoughts as you've wakened in me.
	You may yield to another's opinion,
		The arrangement of table or shelf;
	But the CHILDREN, the mother's dominion,
		You will choose to look after yourself.
											LULA.
S. L. City, Nov. 21st, 1877.

[Column 2]
not say to the hand I have no need of th[-]e,
nor the head to the feet I have no need of
you. Even those members which seem
most feeble in the human frame are necessa-
ry, and so," as the Apostle continues, "is
the case with the church or body of Christ."
We are all necessary, howe'er feeble in un-
derstanding; and as you say we must pro-
gress—onward and upward!
	Aunt Em, how often I have wished of
late that I might become a blessing and a
benefactor to my people. It constantly oc-
cupies my thoughts and is always men-
tioned in my prayers. What a comfort it
must be to declining age, and to the last
hours of the dying man, to know that his
name will live after him in the hearts of
his cotemporaries and generations then un-
born. Not as the hero of a thousand battle-
fields, who "wades through slaughter to a
throne," whose wreath of glory is stained
with the blood of innocence, and whose
song of triumph mingles with the groans of
the dying and is echoed by the curses of pos-
terity; nor as the noisy political demagogue
who prostitutes his talents and the office to
which hypocrisy and an over-credulous pub-
lic has lifted him, to self-aggrandizement
and the subversion of the rights of his
fellowmen; nor in any walk in life as one
who works for nought but wealth and popu-
larity; but as the public benefactor, the
votary of benevolence, the man of the peo-
ple, who spends his life, energies, and men-
tal endowments for the advancement and
salvation of his fellow creatures. He is
the true hero, and the only one whose name
will survive the resurrection morn. All
else is of the earth, earthy, and will crum-
ble at the sound of the trump that bespeaks
its dissolution. Virtue alone will live for-
ever, and grow brighter with its age. Your
remarks on the future of Zion I appreciate
to the uttermost. We have a glorious his-
tory before us, an era for which we must
prepare. Would that we all could see the
fact as a few do! For taken throughout, in
view of the blessed privileges awaiting us,
and our superior advantages over the entire
outer world, we are criminally careless and
ignorant. Especially is this the case with
the young. They know nothing of their
true position—I now speak from my per-
sonal experience before a merciful Provi-
dence opened my eyes to the truth. There
are hundreds of them right in our own city
who are just the same as I was. Self-con-
ceited, wilful and irreverent, studying
everything and learning nothing, without a
care for the present or a hope for the future,
so far as concerns eternal salvation. This
state of things cannot exist much longer;
the time is too far spent. God will not
countenance it. It devolves as a solemn
duty upon parents, teachers and employers,
together with all who are now rescued from
the dangerous sloughs of sloth and infidel-
ity, to join their efforts for the redemption
of their brethren, children and friends.
The youth of Zion must reform, and God
grant it speedily. Every Saint should be a
missionary, for of a surety the harvest is
great and the laborers but few. "Awake,
awake! put on thy strength, O Zion; put
on thy beautiful garments. Shake thyself
from the dust; loose thyself from the bands
of thy neck, O captive daughter of Zion."
	I have filled two public appointments in
Kirtland village. I am now staying at
Uncle Sam's, and have done considerable
exhorting by the fireside, wherever chances
were presented, but I am not encouraged to
believe my efforts were productive of any
manifest benefit, save in one or two in-
stances, and even these are conjectural
merely.

[Column 3]
	I like the idea of a home literature. 'Tis
pleasant to think of what the next decade
may bring forth, though, as you say, it re-
quires pecuniary assistance.
	I shall return to Elyria within a month.
Have not seen an EXPONENT for two months,
but suppose they are all awaiting me in
Elyria. If you write soon address Mentor;
Lake Co, O.; otherwise Elyria, as hereto-
fore.
	Yours very truly,			ORT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	KIRTLAND, OHIO, Nov. 15, 1877.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	Your favor of the 4th inst. came to hand
a day or two ago, and, as usual, pleased me
with its interesting contents. The very
topic so dear to you, but which you present
to me with an apology for so doing, is the
one which engaged my closest attention; so 
you see, in a measure, I am not the same
being as when frivolity was a ruling char-
acteristic of my nature. But I do not mean
to play the egotist—all I wish to say is that
I too claim a deep and abiding, a growing
and earnest sympathy with all that pertains
to the upbuilding of Zion. Her destiny is
mine, for I am a part of her; her name is 
dear, for it is a theme of which I never
weary; her people are my people, her God
my God. I am but a feeble portion of the 
great and increasing whole, a slender piece
of the stupendous frame; but in the hands
of the Almighty, who takes the weak things
of the world to accomplish His purposes,
who can say what I may not do to be useful
to the cause of Zion? Moreover, "we are
not one member, but many; the eye can


R. S. REPORTS.

	MALAD, IDAHO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having read the EXPONENT, and know-
ing the interest you take in the Relief So-
cieties in any portion of the vineyard, I
thought a few items from our quiet little
corner might be interesting and acceptable.
Our Society was organized February 11,
1874, Mrs. Jane Price was selected as Pres-
ident; Mrs. Ann Daniels and Mrs Esther
Lusk Counselors; Mrs. Martha Jones as
Treasurer, we have twenty-six teachers and
eighty members. We are not many in
numbers, but we feel united in our efforts
and desire to be one in all our works and ac-
tions, that the spirit of the Lord may rest
upon us in our undertakings. We have
been buying grain according to the counsel
of the servants of the Lord; and we intend
to take every available means to buy more.
The teachers feel like doing their best, in-
structing the saints to love one another and
to encourage the spirit of kindness one to-
wards another, that they may live their holy
religion and be faithful to their covenants.
The Lord has truly blest us in our labors of
love among our sisters. We have made
several good quilts, some for the poor and
some to sell and buy grain. We had the
pleasure of holding a conference here on
Sunday, October 21, several brethren from
Salt Lake City being present, also Elder
Lorenzo Snow and his son Oliver Snow, our
beloved President, Elder George Dunford
who was ordained our Presiding Bishop,
his counselors and other brethren. We
had good advice and instruction, and the 
spirit of kindness and encouragement will
long be remembered. Our local brethren
often pay us a visit in our general meetings
which we hold once in two weeks, and bless
and cheer us; teaching us to be faithful in 
the good work we have begun for the up-
building of the kingdom of God, and
strengthening the hands of our President
Mrs. Jane Price who is laboring with us,
and reminding the saints to be obedient to 
the counsel they receive from time to time;
we are striving to prevail upon the saints
to realize the importance of home manufac-
ture; some can see the benefit to be obtain-
ed by following this counsel, and we pray
the Lord to open the eyes of the under-
standing of those that cannot see, that they
may obey good counsel and pursue a praise-
worthy course in life.
	Ever praying for the prosperity of Zion
and the success of the EXPONENT, I sub-
scribe myself your fellow laborer.
	ANNE SAWYER, Sec'y.


THE WORKING WOMAN'S Hotel, New York
City, erected by legacy from A. T. Stewart, is
now nearly finished, and will be opened, it is 
expected, on New Year's day. "It is said to
exceed any hotel in the city in its construction
and arrangement, and thoroughness of appoint-
ment."


100		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $[-].00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 1, 1877.


[Column 1]

FITNESS FOR PRACTICAL WORK.

	Men and women of prestige in this age are
becoming so thoroughly practical that every
thing seems about to be measured by its adapt-
ation to use. That theory, or rule, which can-
not be made conveniently subservient to prac-
tical purposes, is deemed next to worthless,
the term "not practical" is continually being
applied to plans which do not succeed well, or
inventions which have not been utilized. Men
of all classes and professions are estimated not
so much according to the knowledge they pos-
sess, as the faculty or tact they have for its
utilization, in pursuing the varied affairs of
life.
	It is only by gradual processes that sure re-
sults are attained; and if any system of reform
in society is introduced by women, it cannot
be made eminently practical immediately.
Work progresses according to the fitness of
those who prosecute it, and much may, and
does depend upon earnestness and devotion to
the cause one may be engaged in. In any con-
dition of life, those who prepare for certain,
special places are more likely to fill them with
dignity and credit to themselves and all inter-
ested, than those who jump into, or usurp po-
sitions for which they were not previously pre-
pared. To be sure the Lord sometimes quali-
fies persons by some special interposition, as
He did "Jesus' disciples," but this is in excep-
tional cases, when the exigencies of a time, or
times demand it. Such persons are usually re-
ferred to as having rare endowments, or fine
talents, which circumstances mold at the mo-
ment of action, making them equal to the
emergency.
	This day is spoken of as the Woman's day,
or as one in which woman is moving forward
and claiming rights and privileges which have
long been denied her; and is it not absolutely
essential that women should prepare them-
selves for the blessings of freedom and inde-
pendence in thought and action, which they,
some of them, claim and desire to enjoy, as an
inherent and God-given boon? We believe it
is:
	The laws of the land in withholding politi-
cal freedom from woman, have by very conse-
quence, also wrought, out her moral, mental and
social slavery. Can they then as a class rise in
one supreme moment from ignominious bond-
age which has enthralled them body and soul,
to a high standard of mental and social great-
ness, such as some conceive to be the true
ideal of their ambitious hopes? No! woman as
well as man must qualify herself for that to
which she aspires. It does not signify only,
that she may be good and pure, but she must
also comprehend what is her mission and the
necessary qualification for the fulfillment of
that definite labor, by all available means and

[Column 2]

opportunities; that she may become equal to
the position she desires to maintain. Other-
wise she cannot expect to retain a firm hold of
rights that may come to her through the inter- 
vention of others, who have qualified them-
selves not only to assert and maintain their
own respective rights, but have stood boldly
forth in the defense of their less courageous sis-
ters. Of what use is the ballot in the hands
of women who will not use it, who cannot be
made to understand it as an avenue of escape
from wrongs and outrages, as a door by which
woman may enter, a wider sphere of usefulness
and through her influence,potent in its power,
cleanse, and purify, and renovate much that is
radically wrong, immoral and impure. If ever
modern society is purified from the moral pes-
tilence which now pervades its ranks, if ever
intemperance is checked, woman must in a
material, efficient and practical manner, aid in
its renovation. It is no doubt her true province
to assist in restoring a purer and higher tone
to society, but will man allow her to do it ac-
cording to her own broad and philanthropic
ideas and sentiments? Not yet! But when
women as a class, are educated up to that high-
er standard of excellence, when they are so
thoroughly systematized in the work they have
undertaken, that of reformation in social life,
then they will be able to brook all restraint
imposed by man-made laws, and achieve the
triumph over custom and tradition which now
binds them with galling chains. The wo-
men of America have begun, other countries
are following her glorious example, and even-
tually, (God willing) woman will regain her
true position as man’s companion and co- 
worker.
	Mormon women have had some peculiar ex-
periences, and opportunities for discipline, that
ought to have materially aided them in a
higher education than the women of the world
enjoy. The system of woman’s work organized
here in Utah, should, if the sisters would fit
themselves efficiently, prepare them for prac-
tical work in every department in life which
pertains to the mission of perfect womanhood. 
Can they be made to realize these things? Are
they moving forward and becoming useful to
the extent of their ability? In short, do they
seek to educate and qualify themselves to stand
as helpmeets to the brethren, who are building
up Zion? This is a subject on which much
might be said. Of what use is it to clamor for
posiion, if one is not fitted for the work it in-
volves? None whatever. The work to be done
requires not only the few, who may be diligent
and lead out, but it requires the universal help
of all the women in Israel; and when in one
strong phalanx they shall unite, having fitted
themselves for practical helpfulness, then will
not glad shouts of Hosanna arise, and will not
all the people with one accord say Amen?


HOME AFFAIRS.

THE COMMITTEE of Consultation in the in-
terest of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, is respectfully
requested to meet at the office of WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, Tuesday, Dec. 4, at 2 o’clock, p. m.
A punctual attendance is required.
 COL. J. R. Winder and Gen. R. T. Burton
returned Tuesday evening, from a business trip
to Chicago.  They have been transacting busi-
ness for the Co-operative Tannery and Woolen
Factories.
 BISHOP JOHN Sharp left for New York City
this morning on business.  Mrs. Nellie
R. Webber accompanied him to meet her
husband, who is on his way home from his
mission to Europe, having been recalled to at-
tend to business here.
	In remembrance of our own school-days in
New Salem, Mass., we publish the following,
clipped from the Woman's Journal, of Boston:
 "New Salem, Mass., is proud of its district
school, under charge of Mrs. Hattie A. Clary,
formerly Miss Bridges of Deerfield, which closed
with an examination and exhibition last week.
Special prominence has been given to drawing,
and, with 1400 days of attendance by twenty-
eight pupils, there have been but thirteen days
absence."
 DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT has opened her office
in the 12th Ward, 2d South St., between 5th
and 6th East Streets.  She has made a specialty
of eye and ear diseases, having taken special
courses in the Eye department of Drs. Noyes,
Little and Callan, of the New York Eye and
Ear Infirmary, and of Dr. McClure of Well’s
Hospital, and of Dr. Heyl of the Philadelphia
Dispensary, of Philadelphia.  She also took a
clinical course on the ear, of Dr. Burnett, the
first Ansal surgeon of Philadelphia.  She also
gives special attention to obstetrics and diseases
of women.
 MRS. D. P. Bowers, an actress of some con-
siderable fame, played in the Salt Lake Thea-
tre three evenings this week.  Queen Eliza-
beth, Lady Audley and Camille were the parts
she represented.  Her voice is pleasant, her
manners graceful, and her rendering of each of
these characters exquisitely poetical.  Mr. Mc-
Collum, who travels with her, is an actor of
prepossessing appearance and more than aver-
age abilty. They have drawn good houses,
even in “these hard times.” They were well
supported by the local dramatic company.
 ERRATA.--In the minutes of the Relief So-
ciety meeting of the First Ward, published in
No. 12, Nov. 15, on the 6th page, a mistake oc-
curred, which we consider it necessary to cor-
rect.  In the remarks made by Miss E. R.
Snow, which commence with the last para-
graph of the second column, we have published
"We were not sent here to consult our own
consciences;” which should read “we were not
sent here to consult our own convenience.”
	In the R.S. Report of Honeyville, published
in Sept. 1st, No. 7, in stating the amount of
wheat stored—55 bushels—a mistake in the fig-
ures made it read 505 bushels.
 ELDER O. H. Riggs returned Saturday Nov.
24 from his mission to Europe.  The English
climate seriously affected his health, and he
was therefore advised to return home. He
stayed a short time visiting his friends and ac-
quaintances in the States.  Mr. James Dwyer
returned from the East in company with Elder
Riggs.  He has been purchasing holiday goods
for the little folks’ Santa Claus.  He expects
dear old Santa Claus to come to him for his
supplies for the children's stockings and to or-
nament Christmas trees, etc.; he has also pro-
vided goods in his line suitable for all ages,
and Santa Claus will please call at Mr. James
Dwyer's and examine his stock of Merchandise
before making large purchases elsewhere.
 WE HAVE just returned from a most inter-
esting, visit to Tooele City, where we went in
company with Miss E. R. Snow and Mrs. E.
Howard.  The party of us were heartily wel-
comed by the good sisters there, and the breth-
ren too seemed pleased with the visit.  We
left by the seven o’clock train, Monday morn-
ing, Nov. 26, and on arriving at the nearest
point adjacent to Tooele, found Brother Tate
and wife and Mrs. Micklejohn in waiting, with
a carriage and fine spirited span of horses.
	The meeting was at two o’clock; meantime


[Column 1]
we had the opportunity of meeting at the
house of Brother Robert Micklejohn, where
we took dinner, Bishop Tuttle of Tooele, his
wife and daughter, Mrs. Annie Musser, a dear
friend of ours, and several other good sisters
from Lakeview. At the meeting house (a good,
substantial, rock building) we met with Mrs.
Hunter, the President of the Relief Society of
Grantsville, and several other sisters from that
place, who had come over to attend the meet-
ings. The afternoon meeting was under the
auspices of the Relief Society, presided over
by Mrs. Elizabeth Clegg, Counselor to Mrs.
Micklejohn, who was called away to attend a
sick person.
	The meeting house is commodious and well-
finished inside, has a large, comfortable vestry
adjoining, and a gallery opposite the stand.
The singing was excellent, the selections choice
and well rendered. After the sisters from Salt
Lake had spoken, Bishop Tuttle made some
most sententious remarks. The house was well
filled, and prior to adjournment a notice was
given out that the meeting in the evening
would be conducted by the Young Ladies M.
I. Association; The Young Men's M. I. A.
were invited to join them, also a general invi-
tation extended to all who wished to attend.
The house was well filled, a larger number of
brethren being present than is usual at such
meetings. The Superintendent of the Asso-
ciation, Mrs. Tate, presided. Miss Emily War-
burton, Secretary, read the minutes of their
last meeting, which gave some idea of the
work they are doing in the interest of the
kingdom of God. Miss E. R. Snow addressed
the meeting, speaking on almost all the differ-
ent topics of the greatest importance in laying
the foundation for a life of usefulness here,
and living for an exaltation hereafter. Mrs.
Howard, in her remarks, dwelt considerably
upon the necessity of economy, and strongly
advised the young people to marry and settle
down without waiting to accumulate wealth
first. She also urged the young men to be
temperate, to leave off bad habits, if they had
been addicted to any. President F. M. Lyman
made some excellent remarks at the close of
the meeting, and expressed himself well pleased
with the sisters' visit and their instructions to
the people. Meeting adjourned until eleven
o'clock the following day. Tuesday morning
at eleven o'clock, a goodly number of brethren
and sisters were assembled; Mrs. Micklejohn
presided. After singing and prayer, Secretary
Mrs. Emily Warburton read the minutes of
their last meeting. They gave a very good
idea of the condition of the Society, and were
rich in testimony of the Gospel, and the good
spirit and feelings of those who were associat-
ed together in works of charity and love. The
subjects treated upon by the sisters who spoke
were the duties and responsibilities of women,
especially mothers, the training of the youth,
the development of capabilities through cul-
ture and proper discipline, the influence of
women upon society and in the formation of
the character of nations, celestial marriage, its
relationships and its advantages. This meet-
ing adjourned until half past six in the eve-
ning, when the house was again filled, The
people paid strict attention to the speakers in
all the meetings, and good order was strictly
observed. Indeed we have never seen more
attentive audiences. We thank the good peo-
ple of Tooele for the many kindnesses and gen-
erous hospitality extended to the party during
their brief stay, and trust that some good seed
may have been sown, that will yield fruit in
due season. These visits of the sisters to the
various settlements, in the interest of Relief 
Societies and Young Ladies' Associations, have

[Column 2]
in some instances been productive of great
good in awakening the slothful and indifferent
to a sense of the responsibilities devolving up-
on them in this day and age of the world.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		0


[Column 1]
				DISCOURSE
					BY
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG,
				DELIVERED
In the Tabernacle, Ogden, at a Meeting of the
	Relief Societies of Weber County,
			July 19th, 1877.

		REPORTED BY JAMES TAYLOR.

				[CONTINUED.]

	Here are mothers. Who give the key to the
nations of the earth with regard to their feel-
ings, pride, prejudices; their religion, habits
and customs, and, I may say, who, in a great
degree, govern, that lay the foundation for the
ability that is exhibited among the nations of 
men? It is the mothers. Who have laid the
foundations in the hearts of children to prepare
them to be great and good men? It is not the 
fathers--it is the mothers. It is like the say-
ing of the Savior with regard to the poor.
Speaking to his disciples. he says "For the 
poor always ye have with you, but me ye have
not always." Now the children are always
with the mother, and the mother is always
with the children, but the father they have not.
He is in the field, at his work; and the mother
is all the time making impressions upon the
minds of the children. Permit me here to say,
mothers, and my sisters, you who are young,
it will do you good if you will only observe it.
You see, hear and witness a good deal of con-
tention among children--some of you do, if
not all—and I will give you a few words with
regard to your future lives, that you may have
children that are not contentious, not quarrel-
some. Always be good-natured yourselves, is
the first step. Never allow yourselves to be-
come out of temper and get fretful. Why,
mother says, "this is a very mischievous little
boy or little girl." What do you see? That
amount of vitality in those little children that
they cannot be still. If they cannot do any-
thing else they will tip over the chairs, cut up
and pull away at anything to raise a row. They
are so full of life that they cannot contain
themselves; and they are something like our-
selves—boys. They have so much vitality in
them that their bones fairly ache with strength.
They have such an amount of vitality, life,
strength and activity, that they must dispose
of them; and the young ones will contend with 
each other. Do not be out of temper yourselves.
Always sympathize with them and soothe
them. Be mild and pleasant. If you see a 
child with knives and forks, playing with them,
it might put out its eyes. It will not do to give
it a hammer and a lookinglass. What will you
do? I am a person of experience, and know
how to deal with children. If the child has in 
its hand that which it should not have, let the
mother or the father, or whoever has charge of
the child or has the right, take such things from
it, and put them away where they belong. Now,
mother, listen to this—never ask a child to
give up that which it should not have. Step
up kindly and put the article where it be-
longs. The child will not say anything. A lit-
tle circumstance took place in Salt Lake City.
I had busine[-]s in a house where I had under-
stood there had been considerable trouble occa
sionally; and the mother would not let the
father speak to the children, to chastise them

[Column 2]
I went into the house and talked to the man.
The lady came in, and sat down. I pretty soon
saw a little girl, about two years old, with a 
top thimble in her mouth, sucking it. I went
up to the girl, took the thimble from her and
put it on the mantle shelf. Says I to the moth-
er—"You must not allow the child to have this
thing; if it should go into the stomach it will
decay." The man looked at me as if he would
faint away. He was a large man, but I sup-
pose he never attempted to say such a thing to
his wife in his life. I said it; and the mother
was so confounded that she did not say a word;
and it would not have done her any good if she
had. Now, if you will mind this--you bring
up your children correctly, and teach them
those principles and habits which are correct
and you will find that you will improve very
materially in your families. If you find that
the children are cruel, do not contend with
them, soothe them, and invite those who
through accident, have injured a little sister to
pity her. "You have accidentally hurt your
little sister, go and kiss her." By taking this
course you will have good children, and they
will not contend with each other. I am talk-
ing to you of that which I know. I have had
an experience in these matters.
	I will relate a little incident that occurred in
my own family. A little boy about three and 
a half years old was very ill. His mother
would feed him bread and milk, or whatever he
wished. As soon as he could stand by her,
every day he wanted his bread and milk. Just
as soon as he had got what he wanted, he would
throw up his hand, and away went the basin
to the floor. His mother did not know what to 
do. Said I, "If you will do just as I tell you, I
will tell you what to do. The next time you 
sit down to feed this little boy, when he has
got through he will knock the dish out of your
hand." Said I, "Lean him against the chair,
do not say one word to him, go to your work,
pay no attention to him whatever." She did
so. The little fellow stood there, looked at her,
watched her; then he would look at the basin
and the spoon, watch his mother, and look at
the basin and the spoon again. By and by he
got down and crept along the floor and climbed
up to the chair, and then set the basin on the
table, and crept until he got the spoon and put
it on the table. He never tried to knock that
dish out of her hand again. Now she might
have whipped him and injured him, as a great
many would have done; but if they know what
to do, they can correct the child without vio
lence.
			[To be continued]


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE LADIES of Missouri sent a Delegate to
the funeral of Senator Morton, with a shaft of
laurel and ivy leaves, surmounted by a white
dove, from whose beak depended a wreath of
smilax and ivy, and the motto, "A slight tes-
timonial of the gratitude we bear to one who
was the unswerving advocate of Woman Suf-
frage."  The offering was made by Mrs. Fran-
ces Minor and Mrs. Phebe Cozens, of Missouri.
	FRANCE.—The resignation of the ministry
has at length been accepted by President Mac-
Mahon.  They will, however, retain their port-
folios until their successors in office are quali-
fied.  In the Chamber of Deputies, after stormy
speeches by Duc de Broglie and M. Gambetta,
the Electoral Inquiry Bill was voted by 320 to
203.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GRAIN MEETING. 

REPORT READ AT FIRST ANNUAL MEET-
     ING, HELD IN THE COUNCIL HOUSE
     S. L. City, Nov. 17, 1877.

  At the suggestion and by the advice and 
counsel of President Brigham Young a call
was made upon the sisters through the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT of Oct. 15, 1876 to store
up and hold in trust grain for Zion, in all
the towns and settlements of this Territory;
also to build granaries in the various locali-
ties and sections; and to solicit the brethren
for donations of grain, and to build store-
houses.  Acting promptly upon the counsel
given, a meeting was held in the Social
Hall one year ago to-day, under the auspi-
ces of a Central Committee who had been
previously appointed by the unanimous
vote of a general meeting of the sisters in the 
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Nov.,
11, 1876.  The subject of storing grain was
discussed by the presiding sisters of Re-
lief Societies, and such practical measures
decided upon, and arrangements made, as
were deemed proper and advisable.  Since
that time the sisters in almost all parts of 
the Territory have been diligently follow-
ing out the instructions given on that sub-
ject, and the reports that have been re-
ceived from the different localities are a 
guarantee of the energy and good faith of 
the sisters in this noble enterprise.
   Synopsis of reports of grain stores and
held in trust by women in the various towns
and settlements of this Territory, as per re-
ports to the President of Central Commit-
tee.  These reports are from Relief Socie-
ties and Young Ladies' Associations. The
aggregate amount of grain reported in good
condition, stored within the year, since
Nov. 17, 1876 up to the present time is 
10,465 bushels.  Of this wheat 299 bush-
els were gleaned by the sisters of the 
Relief and Young Ladies' Societies.  Fifty
bushels were bought with Sunday eggs
saved by the good sisters of Dewey-
ville, Box Elder County for that ex-
press purpose.  There is also a quantity of 
flour stored and held in trust for the same 
purpose, the aggregate amount in weight
being 7,358 pounds.  The Societies have also 
on hand in cash with which to purchase
wheat forthwith $329,10; besides many ar-
ticles, such as quilts, carpets and other pro-
ducts of the labors of the sisters in their or-
ganizations as Societies, which they in-
tend disposing of to purchase wheat.  There
have been excellent gr[-]naries built in the 
17th and 15th wards of this city, and prepar-
ations are being made in several other pla-
ces to build good substantial granaries and 
store-houses.  Many of the Societies have
bins of their own in buildings belonging to 
the Society, or ward.  The Bishops, in 
many places have lent all the aid and influ-
ence possible to assist the sisters in this be-
nevolent work.  The storing up of wheat
is not allowed to interfere with other du-
ties which pertain to the calling of the sis
ters of the Relief Societies.  The wheat re-
ported here is in Salt Lake.  Utah, Mil-
lard, Beaver, Sanpete, Sevier, Summit,
Tooele, Davis, Weber, Morgan, Cache and 
Box Elder Counties.  There are several
towns and settlements that have not yet
reported to the Central Committee.
REPORT OF FIRST ANNUAL MEETING.

President Mrs. E. B. Wells presiding.
Mrs. E. Howard was nominated and accept-
ed as secretary pro tem.  President John Tay-
lor, Bishop Edward Hunter, Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs. Phebe Wood-
ruff, Mrs. E. A. Whitney, Mrs. M. I. Horne,
Mrs. Zina D. Young and a large congregation
of ladies of this city and near localities were 
present.  An annual report of the quantiy of 
grain stored was read by the secretary.  Re-
marks made by Bishop Hunter:  "It has been
said that bread is the staff of life.  When we
first came to these valleys, and indeed since
then, we have suffered for the want of it.
We don't want to go through so severe a trial
again; at all times we should have wheat on
hand.  The Lord has been merciful to us;
He has blessed us with much grain, and 
much of it has been wasted. but in the fu-
ture I hope we will be more careful of what
the Lord has so abundantly blessed us with.
Our Relief Societies are doing much good;
they have saved much suffering, and have
been a great help to the Bishops.  They
have the Priesthood--a portion of priest-
hood rests upon the sisters.  They are do-
ing a good work, and particularly the stor-
ing of grain is commendable.  May you
continue and succeed in your work."
 Remarks by President John Taylor: "I
am pleased to have the opportunity of meet-
ing with the sisters, and I am also glad to 
make a few remarks.  I often think the la-
bors of the sisters are not sufficiently appre-
ciated.  I look upon it that the works of the
sisters are as great in their sphere, as the
works of brethren are in theirs.  We
are mutually dependent one on the other.
 The sisters are doing an important work
in their Relief Societies; they are quite
an assistance to the Bishops, they are more
capable of entering into the feelings of 
women than men are, and there are many
little things that are essential that they
can perform much better, and are more
appropriate to their sphere.  They are use-
ful in these organizations in trying to ele-
vate the state of society, in our morals, in 
our deportment, in our actions, in our dress,
in our governing families, and many other
things in the sphere they occupy.  I know
it is a delicate thing to speak of things that
are wrong in households, or families, but in
your associations they can be considered and
try to rectify them.  For instance, there
are some people who do not know how to
use the things they are in possession of;
they are not capable of taking care of what
is put into their hands; take two families
with the same income, and you will find
quite a difference in their management; in 
one the table will not be so clean and tidy
as it should be; the bread will not be prop-
erly made, and the whole place will be
rather repulsive to one of different habits.
The other will be neat, clean, wholesome,
everything in order, and you will feel per-
fectly at home there; therefore, if we could
use an influence to make our homes clean,
neat, tidy, pleasant and cheerful we would
be doing a good work.
We want to educate our youth, to a better
and more elevated state than they are in 
at present.  A little tact, a little more por-
suasion will help our young people to do 
better; let us watch over our young sisters
and not let them associate with company
not fit for them to keep; but lead them, in-
struct them, that they may grow to be hon
orable, good, pure useful women in the 
Kingdom of God.  There are none of us 
but what need instruction, and the great ad-
vantage is in feeling right ourselves which 
we cannot do without the guidance of the 
Lord.  He will help us to instruct each oth-
er and to promote each other's welfare.
I consider this gathering and storing of 
wheat as of great importance.  I am pleased
to find that you have succeeded as well as
you have, yet you have not a great deal,
considering the size of the Territory, but 
you will increase; it puts me in mind of the 
history of Joseph; it took seven years in 
that day to prepare for the seven years that 
was to come; we have not got any defined
time but we will have to keep pace with 
the growth of our families, which you know
are increasing rapidly.  I will tell you an 
anecdote I read somewhere."  President
Taylor then related an anecdote, which il-
lustrated woman's intuition in the affairs of 
life.
"If you ladies can help us and succeed in 
saving wheat for a case of emergency, it 
will be one of the greatest acts of state-
manship that could occur.  We have been 
careless, we did not save our wheat as we 
should have done, and now if the sisters
take heed to these things the men will find
out that their wives have been wise in doing 
this thing according to counsel.  The ladies
are generally considered the weaker and 
most beautiful sex; but if we all do our part
we will be in a position to receive the bless-
ings of the Lord.  I am pleased to see that 
our young sisters are taking an active part
in this work.  Let us improve in our man-
ners, improve in sisterly and brotherly feel-
ing and in all that will make us feel that 
we are an integral part of the Kingdom of
God.  May God bless you and lead you in 
the paths of life.  Amen."
[To be continued.]


HONOR.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	In my observations in daily life on charac-
ter I have particularly noted the want of
honor among the generality of people in the
small affairs of life, even those who have
been liberally educated, from whom we
have a right to expect all that constitutes a
true lady or gentleman. Where we find
honor is wanting in a character a feeling of
contempt at once springs up and the mer-
cury in our heart's glass runs down, perhaps
below zero! If we see honor in small things
it is a guarantee that it will be exercised
in matters of importance. Our simple
word, we should make a point of duty to
perform and endorse by action. Trifles
shew character often more than great ac-
tions, as straws show which way the wind
blows; were honor and order strictly obeyed
we should have much less need of law; I
will illustrate this by saying in England,
where horse-racing has been, time imme-
morial, a national entertainment, and large
sums of money are lost and won, and being
a species of gambling, the law does not per-
mit debts incurred therein to be recovered
by it, it is therefore thrown upon honor,
and those who fail to meet such debts, are
branded as "black-legs" and never permit-
ted to enter the race course again, even
though he were a prince of the royal fam-
ily of England. Another instance where
honor was beautifully exemplified, was in the
life of the great Richard Brinsley Sheridan
who was of the nobility of England, but of
very small fortune; he possessed talents of
the highest order, as a statesman and ora-
tor, brilliant and beloved as an associate
and friend, and was courted by the highest
and greatest; but poverty was his bane, for
his position obliged him to live expensive-
ly. Byron says he once saw him shed tears
and say he never had a shilling to call his
own; of course he was often in debt, and
one day a tradesman called, and requested
to see him, the footman carried his request
to his master, who told him to show him


up; Sheridan was writing as he entered,
and presented his bill of some hundred
pounds, Sheridan ran his eye over the pa-
per, and candidly said, I am unable to pay
this; I have not the money; "Pardon me
Sir," said the man of business respectfully,
"but I perceive you have written a cheque
for a higher sum than my bill," "That is
true" answered Sheridan, "but this is a
debt of honor!" The tradesman instantly
tore his bill into shreds, saying, now sir,
mine is a debt of honor!" All readers will
remember Byron's inimitable monody on
the death of this renowned man, concluding:
"Nature made but one such a man, and
broke the die in molding Sheridan." These
cases will illustrate the dignity of honor.
and men and women who are careful to ob-
serve it are of a far higher type than those
who neglect it. Scripture also in its brief
but ever impressive language says, "Whoso
sweareth to his neighbor and disappointeth
him not, though it be to his own hindrance,
shall not fall." Everything that has truth
in it belongs to the Saints of Latter-days.
We can read the lives of the great and the
noble, both men and women, and learn les-
sons of importance from them, even though
some of them were pagans, their characters
were so high and noble in tone that they
stood as burning and shining lights to the
world" for unknown to them they were led
by the hand of their Maker, "though un-
seen, and guided by His voice."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT﻿.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

	LAIE, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
						Oct. 12, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I regret to say I am not prepared to give
you a sketch of the history of this little dot
of land, and people, situated in the midst
of the great Pacific Ocean, as you desired,
for I have seen but little of the country
and people, being confined to this small
Mormon settlement, Laie, the gathering
place for the Saints here. Should an op-
portunity present itself for me to glean any-
thing of interest on the subject, I will gladly
communicate the same for the benefit of
the many readers of our woman's paper.
The Elders of this mission reached here in
time for our October Conference; to us it
was a re-union of dear friends, and I think
none but those who have been deprived of
those of our faith, engaged in the same
cause that we are, and alike strangers in a
strange land, can better appreciate each
other's society than we. Elders Lambert,
Woolley and families were released a few
days since to return to the dear ones at
home, and are now on their way home to
Salt Lake City. They have performed a
long and faithful mission here; their de-
parture leaves me the only white woman at
Laie, or within twenty miles of this place;
so you see I do not indulge in that much to
be detested propensity of gossiping and
backbiting. I thought I should be very
lonesome, but I seem to content myself
much better than I expected. My labors
and cares seem to occupy my mind and
drive away all thought of my seclusion,
and the Spirit of the Lord seems to remind
me that I have a mission to perform among
this people, and notwithstanding their
many faults, the spirit of Charity seems to
urge us to be lenient and to continue our
exertions in their behalf, that a remnant of
them may be saved.
	This is a kind-hearted, hospitable people,
strangers and friends are alike made wel-
come to their store of provisions as long as

[Column 2]
they last, and when gone they all fast to-
gether, without murmuring, until some
more is provided. They frequently go one
and two days without eating, and especially
in times of scarcity of food, which is a very
common occurrence, they being of a dis-
position "to take no thought for the mor-
row," and neglect to plant in the season
thereof. This nation is fast dwindling
away both from the effects of disease and
barrenness—probably not more than one
woman in ten becomes a mother. They
appear to be very fond of children, but,
strange to say, mothers think nothing of
giving their offspring away and adopting
others in their stead; this has been custom-
ary with them from time immemorial, and
many of their old traditions cling tena-
ciously to them,- notwithstanding their
advances in civilization, and it is not prob-
ble, from present appearances, that even the
light of the Holy Gospel will enable them
to overcome many of them in this genera-
tion.
	We had an excellent Conference here on
the 6th and 7th inst. President W. E.
Pack, and Elders J. Keeler and S. M. Mo-
len were appointed to labor at this place,
Laie; Elder J. S. Woodbury to travel on
the islands of Kanai and Oahu; Elder H.
P. Richards on the islands of Mani, Molo-
kai and Lanai; Elder J. Gates, Jun., on the
island of Hawaii; for which places they
will take their departure in a few days.
	With kind remembrances to all our
friends, I am your sister,
					JANE E. MOLEN.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	TWELFTH WARD, S. L. CITY, Nov. 13.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Synopsis of the minutes of the re-organ-
ization meeting of the Young Ladies' Re-
trenchment Association. The meeting was
called to order by the President Romania
B. Pratt; singing by the choir, reading of
minutes, etc.
	There were several members of other
wards present among whom were Sisters
E. A. Whitney, M. I. Horne, E. R. Snow,
Z. D. Young and many other prominent sis-
ters of the Relief Society, and Elder Mi-
lando Pratt. Remarks were first made by
President Romania B. Pratt. She was happy
to have the privilege of attending to-day
and meeting with those assembled, she
hoped the young ladies would combine to
make the meetings interesting and for one
she would do her best. Mrs. Horne spoke
of the advantages to be gained from these
associations, and gave some excellent ad-
vice to her hearers. She dwelt most es-
pecially on the subject of the youth of our
Church that parents should be careful in 
the training of their children, to bring them
up in the paths of truth and virtue, and
they should take pains to win the confi-
dence of their offspring, thereby gain-
ing a great reward; more rests with the
mother than she generally realizes, and it
is her duty to watch her own children,from
their earliest infancy, to the time when
they shall know and do for themselves. 
And in return for all the kindness and care
bestowed upon them, shall the girls and
boys give nothing? They are in a position
to do a great work, and the young ladies
do not realize to the fullest extent, the
privileges they have in meeting together
and talking to each other, nor do they ap-
preciate it as they should. Young ladies 
should choose their company and in so do-
ing be careful in their selections; another

[Column 2]

thing, they should always let their parents
know where and with whom they are asso-
ciating. The subject of gathering was al-
so touched upon by Mrs. Horne and several
other things were alluded to. Sister Zina
D. Young said that the women have a work
to perform which is already begun, and we
must be up and doing, and be diligent and
true helpmeets to our husbands and fathers.
The organizations among the women in
this church were instituted by the Lord.
There were people right here in our midst
who would speak disrespectfully of Celes-
tial Marriage, but they had a darkness in
their minds which must sometime be
cleared away; said many other good things.
Miss E. R. Snow said she felt honored to
have the privilege of associating with the
saints. Before arising, she had experien-
ced a great variety of feelings. The ques-
tion arose in her mind, “What were we
here for? And the answer "For the promo-
tion of the welfare of the young," speedily
followed. She thought there should have
been at least one hundred and fifty of the
brethren here, and felt to bless the one
brother who had attended. Have the men
no interest in the welfare of the young! If
it had been a cattle show, they would have
turned out in full force. She had known as
many as one hundred and fifty brethren to
attend one of the sisters meetings; she said
there is an apathy on the part, not only of
the fathers, but the mothers, in regard to
the position of the young. She told the
young sisters it was their privilege to com-
mune with God; to realize that they were
born to be Saviors on Mt. Zion. She said God
was calling on the sisters in unison with the
brethren to do what he has been calling on
the saints to perform for years, and they
want the assistance of the young sisters.
When called before the Holy Tribunal, she
added, will we think of the pleasure we
enjoyed in this world, or will we consider
the good we have or might have done?
She said a record is kept by some one be-
sides your secretary here; no matter how
accurately she writes your minutes, it is all
put down in another book. Young sisters,
take care of your health, of your bodies,
but do not spend all for these, spare some
time in feeding your souls. And now, no
matter how good you are, begin from to-day
and live for God. This organization of
young ladies was revealed by the Lord.
Sister Whitney sung a song of Zion. Mrs.
E. B. Wells said she thought there were
some women in the Gentile world who were
trying to reform society, but they had not
the advantages with which we were bless-
ed, however more will be required of us;
because we have had opportunities that
others have not. We had a more systematic
organization, on a more permanent found-
ation.
	Elder Milando Pratt made some very
good remarks. He said he had been much
interested in the proceedings this afternoon,
and was pleased with the privilege of hear-
ing the sisters speak. He related some of
his experience while on a mission.
	Mrs. Pratt arose and said she had felt
God's spirit burning in her bosom, and
thought we all had. Said it had been
moved and seconded that the name of the
society be changed to Y. L. M. I. A. The
vote was unanimous. It was also moved
seconded and carried that Misses Josephine
Young and Elizabeth Kingsbury be accept-
ed as fifth and sixth counselors to the presi-
dent of this society.
	Meeting adjourned, and closed with usual
exercises.
	MAMIE YOUNG, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WORK ADAPTED TO THE WORKERS.

	Extract from the paper read by Mrs. An-
toinnette Brown Blackwell, at the Woman's
Congress:
	"Pecuniary independence wonderfully
promotes mental and moral independence.
*	* 'Give me neither poveriy or riches'
is a good prayer; but in this age, the major-
ity of women are not destined to become
rich in their own right and certainly not as
the reward of their own industry.	*	*
There is many a woman who would be pro-
foundly glad to own something in a differ-
ent sense from that which is hers as a part of
the general family estate. The need is al-
most as imperative in the grown daughters
as in the wife.
	No one who has reflected upon the diffi-
culties which hedge about every scheme for
adjusting with equity the involved proper-
ty interests of the family, can for a moment
doubt, that our civilization being essentially
what it now is, it would be well if the wo-
men of many households had some profes-
sion, some specialty, by which, without
relinquishing home-duties, they could yet
honorably earn, at least, something for cur-
rent pocket money. Home-duties preclude,
and must always preclude, their taking up
business occupations after the usual routine
of masculine methods. Exceptional wo-
men are doing this; exceptional talent can
always prescribe work and methods of work
for itself, but to average womanhood do-
mestic arrangements are not adapted to or-
dinary business enterprises.
	One may hold, as I do, that a good wife
is justly entitled to one half of the property
of the wedded firm. For all that, no true
woman who found her husband struggling
with pecuniary embarrassments would feel
at liberty to expend a dollar which was not
rigidly indispensable; and if the partner of
one's joys, as well as sorrows, though mod-
erately prosperous, was always feeling the
need for a larger capital, or lived in chronic
eagerness to become rich, the coveted luxu-
ry, if purchased under such conditions,
would become ashes on the lips; yet if a
wife had been paid by strangers for some
special work of her own, she might, per-
haps, expend that sum with a satisfied con-
science. Or if she chose rather to add such
earnings to the family store, the luxury of
doing so, would be especially refreshing.
	What then can be done practically in sim-
ilar cases? We will not ask what would be
best in an ideal society, which may come
some time in the future; but what can be
accomplished in the present state of things
as now existing? Is it better for vigorous
and sensible American women to be always
doing without something which they very
much desire, or is it perhaps best, that with-
out relinquishing most of their usual house-
hold employments, they should search out
ways of directly earning money enough to
enable them to gratify their own personal
tastes and requirements?		*	*
	We cannot doubt that tens of thousands
would eagerly elect to earn, if the earning
were feasible without loss of caste. Very
many advantages would accrue from the
broadening of occupations. Life would be
less a round of common place, and the sense
of genuine independence, would be delight-
ful, if only as a novelty. Could this be
even partially effected, its broadest good
would lie in the fact that remunerative
work might thus become as honorable to
women as to men.
	The earning once achieved, all the rest is

[Column 2]

easy and natural. The trouble has been
that so few women have even thought of
positive earnings that the whole class has
been forced into a pernicious system of
money-saving, which has left nearly all
feminine industries some centuries behind
the industries of men.
	Cleveland, Ohio, Oct. 1877.


[Column 1]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

	The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

	[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

		NEW FALL STOCK.

	F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

	THE LADIES
		Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
					IN THE 
		OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descriptions.
			MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

		ROWE'S
			CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
	Big Boot, Main Street.

	No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

		HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
	CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
	READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
			AT
TEASDEL'S.

	Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND RESIDENCE in 12th Ward on
2d South St., between 5th and 6th East Sts.,
six blocks East of Post Office.

[Column 2]
	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

	NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
	DRY GOODS,
					IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
	Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1877.	No. 14.


[For	the EXPONENT.
		LAKESIDE MUSINGS.

I stood on Eric’s foam-washed strand,
  And watched the ripples beat
Upon the bed of golden sand
  That glistened at my feet.
Ripe Autumn’s yellow, burning sun
  Blazed o’er the sea-girt west,
But lingered, ere his race was run,
  To gild each snowy crest.
With liquid fire in crescents bright
  And dancing on the sea,
Like fairy sylph and water sprite
  In mirthful revelry.
No cloud was there, the bending sky,
  So clear and purely blue,
Appeared reflected from on high
  To lend the wave its hue;
Which, answering the ardent God
  That kissed it	with its beams,
As down the west in fire he rode,
  Threw back ten million gleams,
The breeze, sweet nature’s telephone,
  Swept by in low refrain,
Like leaves in trembling monotone
  Responding to the rain.
And sweeter note to listening ear,
  Though in an unknown tongue,
Than came to me in accents clear,
  I ween were never sung—
Unknown? Nay, most familiar song
  Dame Nature’s music is,
To all whose thoughts in tuneful throng
  Blend with her melodies;— 
Aeolian tidings from afar,
  Of other lands and skies,
Of friends, of home and kindred dear,
  And all that true hearts prize.
*     *     *     *     *     *     *     *
How ever is life's history
  Evolving constant change!
How rife with new-born mystery,
  As fickle lived as strange.

Each fleeting day has its to-morrow; 
Each pleasure has a sister sorrow;
And hours of future peace remain
To heal the wounded heart again.
As time rolls on in its routine,
Each phase alternately is seen;
And yet it seems as though distress
Were longer lived than happiness;
For, while our sorrows ling'ring stay,
Like clouds that hover o'er the day,
Our "happy moments" soon are past--
"Too beautiful," indeed, "to last." 
But thoughts like these must buried be--
Their sadness has no claim on me;
Away amid some bygone scene,
Their epitaph:  "It might have been."
For time has taught my yielding heart,
From themes like these to e'er depart,
Nor after fruit forbidden may we yearn,
For all we have is all we truly earn.
Old Erie!  On thy golden sanded shore,
Where wavelets speak, or sullen breakers roar,
Where hurricanes rush by in furious tone,
Or evening zephyrs breathe in gentle moan,
Beneath the bending verdure of the woods,
High tossing heads bedecked in sylvan hoods,
Far from the crowded streets of busy town;
I find a spirit answering my own;
I hear a voice of moving eloquence.
I hold with nature mutual confidence,
I live where all her changing beauties dwell,
And feel the things that language cannot tell.
Cleveland, Ohio, Nov., 1877. 				O.F.W.


A convention of delegates represent-
ing the cause of all the woman suffrag-
ists in the United States is to meet in Wash-
ington on the 8th of January next; and the
Senate Committee on Privileges and Elec-
tions will hear a delegation of women on
the day following. Thanks to Mrs. Sara J.
Spencer.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
		AFTER LONG YEARS.

			LETTER IV.

	What say the voices from out the long years?
	Bring they sweet promise to cheer our lone way—
	Inspiring to action, and banishing fears,
	Whispering courage and strength for to-day?

	Does not passing through deep sorrow
and walking in thorny paths prepare one to
enjoy a fuller and more complete happiness
when the dark hour is over, when the path
which was rough has been trodden down
by patience, perseverance and constant toil,
and become smooth and easy to walk in?
Are we not each of us pioneers in the great
journey of life? Is it not meet that we
should be brave and courageous for our-
selves, and not lean upon those who, like
ourselves, must carve their own way
through every obstruction? Some women
find brave, valiant fellow-pilgrims, who say
in the generosity of their hearts, Lean up-
on me. Sometimes it succeeds admirably;
and the woman petted, cherished and be-
loved glides along, always trusting, confid-
ing, leaning, and is carried through the
world without any individual experience,
any practical culture of the noblest attri-
butes of life. What are they prepared for
when they enter upon another stage of ex-
istence? Is this the wisest and best course
to pursue? All of us who have passed
through a long experience know how un-
certain it is to depend wholly upon another,
because the instances are only rare excep-
tions in which it succeeds. The masses
make it an utter failure, as the history of
the world, as well as of individual acquaint-
ances, plainly proves. This is a question
all of us who are rearing daughters, and all
who are interested in the great problem of
life-work, should gravely consider. Boys
are expected to act for themselves, to know
for themselves; to fulfill practical life-duties
and responsibilities, and are born into the
world imbued with these independent ideas.
But men tell us (and women, too) that it
is not necessary girls should be educated
ONLY to become good wives and mothers;
In the name of common sense we would
ask, What is their idea of goodness? To
keep house economically, to have beautiful,
well-developed, healthy, bright, active, in-
telligent children (mostly sons), to wear a
smiling face under all circumstances, in
fact, to be obedient in all things to their
lord and master. When all this and ten
thousand more things are understood by
the term good wives and mothers, then the
question naturally arises, Will not the task
be a hard one to those who make no prepa-
ration except to smile and look pretty?
Ought women not to be philosophers, to ful-
fill all the responsibilities of wives and
mothers? Recently we heard a gentleman
remark, women were not philosophers, that
they never arrived at conclusions by rea-
soning, but admitted they were quick at
intuition, intimating at the same time that
it answered well enough for them; seem-
ingly he thought it made very little differ-
ence whether they were ever really sure
and positive upon any point, as that was
always left for some man to decide for
them.

[Column 2]
	My idea is if women are not philosophers
they ought to be; and further, that they
should not only make an effort to be capa-
ble of judging for themselves, and carrying
their own individual burdens, without im-
posing upon others, but that they should
be so earnest and practical as to accomplish
something real for themselves. We talk a
great deal about sympathy; and true, genu-
ine sympathy is an excellent recipe for
many things, but indulgence is not sympa-
thy, and if one is fostered in indolence it
weakens and detracts from the solid quali-
ties which ennoble character.
	Woman loses her charm for man as soon
as she becomes strong-minded and wants to
know for herself—so says Madame Grundy.
Then I suppose it remains for woman her-
self to arrive at some practical method of
discipline into principles of true independ-
ence of character. This can be done when
women care more for the real life-mission
of mankind and less for the estimation in
which they are held by men.
	This letter is unsatisfactory, having
opened up a subject on which so much
should be said to make it clea[-] to the read-
er, but will our kind patrons excuse this
preface, and the following letters may elu-
cidate more fully the object we have in
writing.					AUNT EM.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"I have an idea to ventilate," writes a
correspondent. "In looking over the draw-
ings in an iron company's office, I was
struck with their beauty and delicacy, and
I could not help saying, Why couldn't wo-
men be draughtsman? With a practical
knowledge of drawing, algebra, geometry,
and a little taste and perseverance, I am
sure an intelligent girl could learn to con-
struct bridges. There is little muscular
effort, and the work is indoors." This idea,
or one nearly similar, has been already in
successful operation in London. In Febru-
ary, 1876, an office was established, and the
management undertaken by a Miss Crosby,
who had acquired a thorough knowledge of
the work in the house of an eminent firm
of engineers. Her superintendence was
given gratuitously. During the first year
the workers earned over $1,300.—Woman's
Words.
	Woman's Printing Association.—This
Association is organized for the purpose of
giving special facilities for the thorough
training and employment of girls and wo-
men in type-setting, engraving, and other
light branches of printing. Also for the
purpose of publishing books, tracts, and
papers of special interest to women, for
their education, encouragement and ad-
vancment in all the trades, arts and sciences.
	Those who desire to assist in promoting
this object are invited to take shares in the
Association, and to send orders for printing.
	Branch agencies will be established in
the leading cities, and correspondents are
wanted in all the principal towns.
	Further infromation may be obtained by
addressing the secretary,
	MRS. JUAN LEWIS,
		No. 625 Walnut Street,
			Philadelphia, Penn.


106		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting,
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Nov. 10, was a most interesting
one. The minutes of the previous meet-
ing, and also the minutes of the young
ladies from the several wards were fnll of
instruction and wisdom. President M. I.
Horne expressed herself pleased with the
minutes, and remarked that in looking over
the congregation assembled, she could not
help thinking the sisters present were
among the valiant ones that were reserved
to come forth in the last days. She spoke
of the duties of the saints and the bless-
ings they enjoyed.
	Counselor E. R. Snow spoke of her re-
cent visit to the sisters in the northern set-
tlements, the many meetings she had at-
tended, the good feeling and spirit that
existed among the sisters in the country,
and the energy and zeal manifested in good
works. She dwelt with great earnestness
upon the necessity of sustaining home-in-
dustries practically, and the duties of moth-
ers in teaching their children correct prin-
ciples. Counselor E. Howard made some
very good remarks upon the preservation of 
health, and training children in the ways of
righteousness. Several other sisters made
appropriate remarks.
	The General Retrenchment Meeting,
Nov. 24, Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding. Af-
ter the usual exercises and reading of min-
utes, Pres. Horne, Mrs. W. East, Mrs. Nau-
cy Clark of Farmington, Mrs. M. J. Thomp-
son, Counselor P. Woodruff, Mrs. Sarah Groo
Mrs. Martha Young and Counselor B. W.
Smith each addressed the meeting, mak-
ing many wise suggestions on subjects of
general interest, and encouraging each other
in good works. Counselor E. R. Snow said 
she had been edified by the remarks of the
sisters, and bore testimony to the truths
spoken by them.
	General Retrenchment Meeting, Dec. 8,
Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding. The minutes
of the Junior Societies were rich in senti-
ment, and furnished a wide field for thought.
President M. I. Horne, Counselors Zina D.
Young and E. R. Snow each addressed the
sisters; Mrs. Young, in her remarks, dwelt
upon the form of prayer, and the manner
of praying in a public capacity: she said a
person offering a prayer in any public place
should, in expressing themselves, always
say we in addressing the Deity, as they
were beseeching in behalf of all there as-
sembled; many persons used the pronoun
I,. which was very improper. Another
item was that of partaking the Sacrament
with a glove upon the hand; she had some-
times seen sisters partake of it with the
left hand; this was also out of order. There
is a certain order in all things which per-
tain to the priesthood, and counseled the
sisters to be faithful to observe all these
things. Miss Snow then expressed herself
in regard to prayer, and the effect of re-
sponding with Amen by the congregation.
Quite a large number of sisters bore strong
testimonies, and much good instruction was
given. The Lord blesses the sisters in these
meetings with great faith, and the Holy
Spirit rests abundantly upon all who have
hearts ready to receive the truth.

			PROVIDENCE, Oct. 26, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Some minutes of a Special Meeting of the
Providence Relief Society. After singing
and prayer, the President Margaret Math-
ews arose and said she was glad to meet the
sisters upon such an occasion, and was
thankful of having the privilege of meet-

[Column 2]
ing with the sisters from the City. She
asked God to let His holy spirit rest on each
and every one so that the instruction they
would receive would benefit them both now
and in after years. Mrs. Zina D. Young
spoke of the necessity of storing grain, and
and being self-sustaining, and of the use-
fulness of the silk worm and the mulberry
tree; also counseled mothers of the daughters
of Zion, to teach their daughters to encour-
age home productions and to make their
own hats, bonnets, and every article of
clothing they needed, and to live humble
and righteous before their Maker. She gave
much good instruction to the young people.
Mrs. E. Davis said it had been two years
since she had visited the sisters here, and
she felt happy and highly honored to meet
with them on such an occasion. She said
it was one consolation, that the outside
world gave us credit for our work, if they
did not for our religion, said they could not
see as we see. She asked how many num-
bers of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT the sisters
took at this place—only so few; there ought
to be more. Advised the sisters to buy the
church books and read them, and not fill
their minds with low reading and nonsense.
She requested the brethren and sisters and
clerks of our stores to come and buy their
winter goods at the Woman's Commission
Store, and not from Babylon. Miss Eliza R.
Snow, after some appropriate opening re-
marks, asked if we were really saints or
merely professed to be saints. She said it
would be well to think and reflect about it.
She instructed the young ladies not to use
slang phrases or corrupt their minds with
bad words, and that it would be well for the
young ladies to discuss it in their meetings
and to set a good example before the young-
er sisters, and to patronize home-produc-
tions, and sustain those who were placed
over them, and not to indulge in back-bit-
ing, but to be kind and friendly, and always
speak kindly to one another. She urged
the young ladies to be industrious and to
get mulberry trees and plant them out, pro-
cure silk worms and raise silk so that they
might make their own silk stockings and
neck-ties, dresses, capes, handkerchiefs and
everything that can be made from silk, and
not to buy them of the outside world. She
said the organization of the Relief Society
was a revelation from God through Joseph
Smith the prophet, and the Young Ladies
Associations was a revelation from God to
President Brigham Young. She gave much
good instruction to the young men and wo-
men. She said it was no common thing in
the days of Kirtland and Navuoo for little
children to hold meetings, and to preach,
pray, sing and enjoy the gifts of the Gospel.
She inquired of the young ladies if they
wished to be organized into a Mutual Im-
provement Society. They answered yes.
Miss Parthenia Blair was chosen President
of the Association of Providence, Joan John-
son, Sophia Poulson, Sarah Hammond, Al-
zina Brown, Lucinda Fulmer and Alice
Rice her counselors; Anne Mathews Secre-
tary; Elizabeth Frederick Assistant Secre-
tary; Elizabeth Blair, Treasurer. Miss Snow
gave some most valuable instruction to
these young sisters who were appointed to
hold positions of honor and trust in the As-
sociation. President M. Mathews express-
ed her thanks to the sisters for their kind-
ness and for the good instruction received
from them. The meeting was dismissed by
Elder George W. Mailen.

				GOSHEN NOV. 2nd, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place held an
annual meeting Oct. 8, giving a report of

[Column 3]
finance, and exhibiting a variety of home
industries. There were present on the
stand by invitation, Mrs. M. A. Hyde, and the
Presidents of Santiquin and Payson, with
their Counselors and Secretary; Bishop Wil-
liam Price, his Counselors, and Brother
Barry Wride of Payson. The meeting was
presided over by President Mary Johnsen.
After the usual opening exercises our Bish-
op addressed the meeting, giving us good
counsel and expressed himself pleased with
our progress and financial report; compared
us to the honey-bee and congratulated us
in being engaged in such a laudable work,
and felt to bless all those enaged therein;
Mrs. M. A. Hyde, Mrs. J. B. Simons, Mrs.
Elizabeth Stickney, Mrs. Agnes Douglas
and Bro. Barry Wride spoke and said many
things calculated to comfort and help us.
Our President read a poem composed for
the occasion, by Mrs. Christina Higginson.
The young ladies of the Mutual Improve-
ment Association took an active part in the
meeting and in contributing specimens of
handiwork, and also in reading their paper
which was very interesting, and the min-
utes of their last meeting which plainly
showed they are alive to their duties and
are striving in the right direction.
	Our financial report from June 1st, 1876,
to June 4th, 1877:
Donations received........................... $ 87 75
Disbursed to the poor.......................    47 27
Donated to Arizona mission.............    16 00
Building material for Relief So-
	ciety House.................................   160 00
Shares in Co-op Store.......................      30 00
Shares in Provo Factory...................    140 00
Cash in hand......................................      46 00
Goods and produce on hand..........       90 00
	Our President arose and thanked the
brethren and sisters for their attendance,
she had been very much edified by their re-
marks and as the storing of grain had been
mentioned she would report the quantity on
hand; the articles exhibited were the work
of the sisters of this place; she hoped our
next annual meeting would be held in our
new Society House. Among the home in-
dustries exhibited was "Our Motto, Refuge
for the Needy," and representing the Bee-
hive all worked in Berlin wool. The dox-
ology also worked in Berlin wool by one of
our young sisters, straw and coral baskets,
home-made flowers, hair work, pin cushions,
rag carpets, rag mats, quilts of various
kinds; wool-daisy mats, woolen shawls, mus-
lin needle-work, neckties of different mate-
rials, crotchet table covers, straw picture
frames, and many other articles.
	The meeting was a gratifying one to all
present, and they seemed to enjoy them-
selves very much, and a good spirit prevail-
ed in our midst. There seems to be a spirit
of unity among the sisters of this place;
we feel well in our meetings, and are de-
termined to help roll on this Latter-day
work. May we follow the counsels of our
Lord, and walk in His footsteps, remember-
i[-]g our beloved leader who has passed be-
hind the veil, and imitate his noble exam-
ple so that we may be prepared when we
are called to pass to the spirit world.
	Wishing you and your valuable paper
every success, I remain as ever, your sister
in the New and Everlasting Covenant.
			LOUISA TAYLOR, Secretary.


THROUGH THE recent strike of cigar-
makers in New York City, 4,000 girls have
been employed. The girls have succeeded
wonderfully with the work, it is said; and
if the strike continues, the men’s places
will be filled with girls. 12,000 men are
engaged in the strike.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
MY HEART AND I.

We’re sometimes sad, my heart and I,
(My heart and I are old-time friends,)
And oft when clouds obscure our sky,
Each unto each confidence lends;
And if by chance you happen near,
Some strange confessions you might hear.

My heart and I are special friends;
We know each other’s weakness, too;	
Yet for each other make amends
For any fault, as friends should do. 
My heart, (I know with best intent)
Has wrought me ills it never meant.

Yet I forgive my heart, for I
Ne’er found a friend that so loved me;
O’er all my faults it doth but sigh,
Where Reason would reproachful be;
Where even Hope would shake her head,
Viewing the future path with dread.

Yet no one, but my heart and I,
Know what endeavors we have made
To build our castles fair and high,	
On best foundations ever laid;
And no one, but my heart and I,
Know how complete a wreck they lie.

We don’t repine, my heart and I—
Failures but teach us how we fell;
And if the grapes were hung too high,
Some other fruit will do as well;
We thankful glean the golden wheat,
And sweet strawberries at our feet.
 
We once made note, my heart and I,	 
Perhaps with pardonable pride,
Of youth-time's charms that pleased the eye,
Where now their phantoms only glide,
And solace find; for we are told, 
In heaven we’ll never more grow old.

In reverie, my heart and I,
Missing the voice we turned to hear,
Have stood beneath the still night-sky,
Feeling the influence hov'ring near
So bless’d, that ling'ringly we turned
Homeward, where cheerful hearth-lights burned.

Oft have we felt, my heart and I, 
By lonely bed of pain and fear,
The blessed presence drawing nigh,
Bidding our drooping spirits cheer.
Behold what faith in God can give,
When e'en the dying turn and live. 

Not even thou, best friend, may’st share,
The silent vigils that we keep.
Even the darlings of my prayer, 
Loosen their clasping in their sleep. 	
None hear, while solemn hours go by,
The teachings to my heart and I.

Alone, while loved ones gather round,
We’ll fill life’s mission to the last.
Alone, when judgment all have found.
Waiting to hear our sentence passed;
Before the changeless Judge on high, 
We two shall stand—my heart and I.

Companion—pilgrims evermore,
Seeking eternal life to gain;
This sacred vow we make, therefore:
Faithful in duty to remain,
True to the Father throned on high,
And to ourselves—my heart and I.

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
S. L. City, Nov., 1877.


[Column 1]

TRIP TO ST. GEORGE.

VISIT TO THE RELIEF SOCIETIES, AND 
THE TEMPLE.

	We left Salt Lake City on the 6th of Sep-
tember last, on a tour through the southern
settlements.
	At Scipio I found the Relief Society in a
prosperous condition under the presidency
of Mrs. Elizabeth Yates; having greatly
improved since my first visit, in many re-
spects. The sisters manifested much inter-
est in the duties which pertain to ther call-
ing in these organizations,and especially in
regard to storing grain. They had already
been out gleaning two days and were pre-
paring to go again. The president of the
society seemed active and energetic in de-

[Column 2]

signing plans to get means to respond to the
call made upon them. In Fillmore I found
the Relief Society disorganized, the presi-
dent having resigned on account of ill-
health. The sisters with whom I conversed
were very anxious to be reorganized, and
to have a visit from some of the sisters of
Salt Lake City, who take an active part in
promoting the growth of these organiza-
tions, and are therefore prepared to give
counsel and instruction to those who do not
enjoy the same opportunities. At Beaver
and Cedar City we called, and by request
left an appointment to hold a meeting at
each place on our return homeward. We
also called at Kanarra; the sisters there
were very anxious I should meet with
them, but the time was too short,and I had
no opportunity to learn the condition of the
organizations. Arriving at St. George my
emotions on first beholding the Temple
were similar to those which have been so
often expressed by others of the sisters who
have had the privilege of visiting it. Presi-
dent McAllister invited me to meet with the
sisters of St. George in a general meeting,
and gave out the appointment on the Sab-
bath day, for Monday afternoon. The meet-
ing was a very large one, and the spirit
manifested was one of union and love. The
four branches of the Society there, were all
in good condition, and united in good
works under the energetic presidency of
Mrs. Anna Ivins.
	On Saturday morning Sept. 15, in the
Temple I had the pleasure of being present
at the marriage of my son John P. Horne
and Miss Sophronia Spencer, daughter of
Daniel Spencer. During our stay in St.
George we had the privilege of performing
some work in the Temple which we desir-
ed, and after having finished these labors
satisfactorily we left there Sept. 20, to re-
turn home.
	The first place I met with the sisters on
my journey homeward was at Cedar City.
We traveled forty miles that day to reach
there, and held a meeting with the sisters
in the evening, which was well attended,
several of the local brethren were present.
A spirit of energy and good feeling seemed
to prevail, and a desire on the part of the
sisters there to obey counsel, and make as
much progress as possible in home indus-
tries and all good works. The Bishop's
Counselor suggested to the sisters then as-
sembled to petition the City Council for an
appropriation of a piece of land for the ben-
<beit- efit="" of="" the="" relief="" society="" to1="" set="" out="" mul-="" berry="" trees,="" and="" make="" a="" beginning,="" in="" seri-="" culture,="" saying="" he="" would="" use="" his="" infllittlee="" with="" city="" council="" their="" behalf.="" ,at="" beaver="" i="" met="" withtho="" sisters="" as="" per="" appoint.="" 'jndnty.on="" sunday="" afternoon;="" president="" jof.="" stake="" dumber="" 0f="" other="" breth-="" ren="" attended="" meeting.="" good="" spirit="" provailed,="" those="" who="" spoke'="" seemed="" deeply="" interested="" the'future="" welfare="" zioni="" wo="" roturnod="" home="" by="" wayofbich-="" field="" gunnison.="" all="" settlements="" whore="" had="" an="" opportunity="" conversing="" with-="" sisters,="" urged="" upon="" them="" ne-="" cessity="" obedience="" to="" counsel="" sustain-="" ing="" home-industries,="" storing="" up="" wheat,="" encouraging="" literature.="" faith="" energies="" <generally="" seems="" 6="" 'hve'increased;and="" everywhere="" words="" works="" are="" living="" testi-="" mony="" gospel="" de-="" votion="" its="" principles.="" we="" arrived="" safely="" at="" sept.="" 20,="" feeling="" that="" been="" greatly="" blessed="" prospered="" our="" journey.="" itho="" wherever="" i.="" w6.nt="" welcomed="" ;rae="" iacly="" were="" ahxidubi="" “should="" stay="" 7="" rid,="" hold’="" ineetibjjs.="" with.="" tde'm="" -="" there="" is="" -rt="" it="" 'i="" t.="" <r="" .="" jij="" x="" 5="" a-very="" great="" desire="" in,="" these="" isolated-plapes,.="" from="" salt="" lake="" cityhould="" visit="" themj="" 'and="" imparted="" themi'a="" portion="" instruction="" received="" here,="" where="" sit="" as.="" under="" droppipgsof="" sanct-="" uary.,="" mary="" horne.="" "i="" r3="" i...="" <:="" begy8="" 3r="" <="" div="">efit of the Relief Society to set out mul-
berry trees, and make a beginning in seri-
culture, saying he would use his influence
with the City Council in their behalf. At
Beaver I met withthe sisters as per appoint-
ment, on Sunday afternoon; the President
of the Stake and a number of other breth-
ren attended the meeting. A good spirit
prevailed, and those who spoke seemed
deeply interested in the future welfare of
Zion. We returned home by way of Rich-
field and Gunnison. In all the settlements
where I had an opportunity of conversing
with the sisters, I urged upon them the ne-
cessity of obedience to counsel in sustain-
ing home-industries, storing up wheat, and
encouraging home literature. The faith
and energies of the sisters generally seems
to have increased; and everywhere their
good words and works are a living testi-
mony of their faith in the Gospel and de-
votion to its principles. We arrived safely
at home Sept. 29, feeling that we had been
greatly blessed and prospered upon our
journey.
	The sisters wherever I went welcomed
me gladly and were anxious I should stay
and hold meetings with them. There is

[Column 3]

a very great desire in these isolated places,
that the sisters from Salt Lake City should
visit them, and impart to them a portion of
the instruction received here, where we sit
as it were under the droppings of the sanct-
uary.
	MARY I. HORNE.


SHABBY GENTEEL.

			BY MAY MAPLE.

	We are all well acquainted with that class
of individuals who are known as the "shab-
by-genteel,"—persons who to keep up ap-
pearances, constantly live beyond their
means, and because they are too "proud" to
bear the idea of being classed as poor. They
are only in moderate circumstances—some-
times even not that well-off—but does not
matter; they must give just as grand enter-
tainments as their rich neighbors, and con-
stantly ape and imitate the dress and car-
riage of persons far above them in wealth
and social position. It is humiliating to
note the hard work they will undergo, and
stint themselves privately, in order to make
a grand public display—feasting one night,
and then starving for the next month to
pay for such extravagance. They play the
host and look smiling and happy, but a dif-
ferent spirit pervades them, for they know
too well the price they must pay for their
silly indulgence. Short meals for a month
would seem a rather high price to pay for 
an evening's "amusement," but still they
keep on in their silly course, and gather
"friends" who are friends in name only, to
be wafted away from them at the first puff
of adversity. It is an easy matter to be
popular—high-priced dinner parties and
good wines will do that, but it is another
matter to gain friends who will be a help
in the hour of need. No one respects other
persons less for living as well, or dressing
as fine as they can afford, but when they
live beyond their means they bring con-
tempt upon themselves. One can command
the respect of sensible persons by wearing
old clothes gracefully when he (or she) can-
not afford new ones, and it is much more
honorable than running up a lengthy tailor
or milliner's hill to the infinite sorrow of
both buyer and seller—the first thinking how
money can be raised to pay it, and the lat-
ter growing more doubtful as the months
wear by, whether it will ever be paid.
	Poor persons who give receptions and
dress better than they can really afford,
are running a race that will surely lead to
ruin.


RUSSIAN PROVERBS.—When sovereignty
is divided it is very soon destroyed. Make
presents to your judges; you will gain all
you ask. To God glory; to the priest the
candle. When the patriarch is starved, he
steals like any other man. The trainer re-
mains sound while the horse dies. His
right arm is often a man's worst enemy.
Misfortune engenders misfortune, and you
escape the wolf only to be devoured by the
bear. Beware of a tamed wolf, a baptized
Jew, and a reconciled enemy. The robber
does not always steal, but it is as well to be
on the look-out for him. The rich man in
battle shields his face, but the poor man
takes care of his clothes. The old man re-
pents of that of which the young man
boasts. If you give a shirt to a beggar, he
will complain that the linen is too coarse.
Measure ten times and cut once. The
smallest needles are the sharpest prickers.
Do not eat cherries with your superiors—
they will blind you with the stones.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMLINE B. WELLS,		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
Eaststreets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 15, 1877.


[Column 1]

WOMAN SUFFRAGE AND THE
COMING CONVENTION

	The women of this Territory will see by read-
ing the Deseret News and EXPONENT that
Congress is about to grant a hearing to the la-
dies on the Sixteenth Amendment to the Con-
stitution of the United States. The subject of
the amendment is to establish Universal Suf-
frage through all the States and Territories.
This is certainly an important matter. The
women of Utah should feel the greatest inter-
est in this vital subject. Woman Suffrage has
been granted here and the ladies have enjoyed
the privilege of the ballot for eight years, but
there is no certainty that it will be a perma-
nent thing; already there is a bill filed and
waiting to be acted upon, which would deprive
this people of political, social and religious
rights and privileges, and repeal Woman Suf-
frage here.
	This people have suffered sufficiently in
times past through being deprived of privi-
liges inherited by birth and right of citizenship
to make them generous towards others, and if
it is in the power of the women of Utah to aid
in any degree the women of this American Re-
public, we think it an imperative duty to do so;
and in this laudable undertaking they will re-
ceive the hearty co-operation of all good breth-
ren. Among the ladies of the Congressional
Committee is Mrs. Sara J. Andrews Spencer
who spoke warmly against the ballot being ta-
ken from the women of Utah in the House of
Congress on a former occasion. The sisters
should not forget her kindness and courage; it
requires nobility of character and heroism to
face opposition and speak boldly in defense of
a principle that is not popular.
	There is no doubt evil-minded men are afraid
of the influence of women, and they have
every reason to be, for woman's almost uner-
ring intuition detects the lack of honor and in-
tegrity quickly.
	If any women on the face of the earth should
be able to defend their rights, it is the Mormon
women. What have they not sacrificed in
times past, for the sake of obtaining rights and
liberty of conscience? Thay have faced dan-
gers bravely, crossing the trackless desert, amid
savages and wild beasts, homeless and with
scant food and raiment, laying their loved ones
down in untimely graves in consequence of
tolls and sufferings beyond endurance. The
trials and hardships physical and mental en-
dured by these pioneer women can never be
told. But the prayers and supplications of
mothers, wives and daughters have reached
the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth and have been
answered in blessing upon their heads.
	If the country is ever redeemed from ruin,
government will need the efficient help of in-
telligent women. Give woman the ballot and

[Column 2]

she can aid most essentially the interests of
the nation. It will scarcely be possible for
Congress to refuse Woman Suffrage if dele-
gates appear from every State in the Union.
God is for woman, and there are some knotty
questions which now agitate the public mind
that women could help to unravel. The men
of this nation have not respected the rights of
women as they should, they have allowed
wicked and designing persons, to commit the
foulest wrongs to women, and let them go un-
punished. Men will be held accountable for
these things. What would induce women to
lift up their voices everywhere as they are now
doing, but the sense of wrong and injustice to
their sex, under which they are smarting.
When Suffrage is given to uncivilized or half
civilized men, women are more than ever im-
periled.
	May God give the victory to woman in the
coming issue to which so many noble women
are looking, is our prayer for the women of
America; but whether now, or at some future
time, woman's emancipation from thrall-
dom literally is sure to come. What a
glorious event for the coming New Year would
be the granting of the petition for Universal
Suffrage. How many thousand hosannas
would ring out from the multitudes of women
who have toiled so heroically in the cause,
were this bill to pass, so as to become a part of
the United States Constitution.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	A MERRY CHRISTMAS to our kind patrons.
May peace and good will abound in the habi-
tations of Zion. Salt Lake City is putting on
her holiday attire and making preparations to
celebrate joyfully, the coming Christmas. Z.
C. M. I., the Home Commission Store, and all
large business houses are displaying, artisti-
cally, their choicest goods, for the benefit of
Santa Claus.

	A MEETING of the Committee of Consulta-
tion in the interest of WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
was held in this office Tuesday Dec. 11, at 11
o'clock a. m., Miss E. R. Snow President of
the Committee acting chairman of the meet-
ing. Some general and special business was
transacted. Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs. Phebe
Woodruff were added to the Committee. The
meeting adjourned until Tuesday Dec. 18, at
the same hour and place, when further busi-
ness will be transacted. Those of the Com-
mittee who did not attend the last meeting are
again invited.

	WOMAN SUFFRAGE MEETING: A meeting of
some of the prominent, leading ladies was held
Dec. 12, at 11 o'clock at this office; the wo-
men of this Territory having been solicited
by the National Suffrage Association at Wash-
ington to obtain signatures to the Sixteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. Mrs. E. B. Wells was elected Chair-
man, and Mrs. E. Howard Secretary; Mrs. M.
I. Horne opened the meeting with prayer.
Such measures were taken at this meeting as
were deemed practicable by those present, for
canvassing the city to obtain signatures, and
at the suggestion of Miss E. R. Snow and oth-
ers a special meeting was appointed for the
ladies of Salt Lake County, when a practical
method will be decided upon, for canvassing
the entire Territory. Dismissed with prayer
by Mrs. Zina D. Young.

	A SPECIAL MEETING will be held at the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on Satur-
day, Dec. 22d, 1877, for the purpose of organ-
izing a Presidency of Relief Society for Salt
Lake Co., and also to transact political busi-

[Column 2]
ness in the interest of Woman's Suffrage. All
the presidents and officers of Relief Socioties
in Salt Lake County are invited to be present.
Also all members of these societies and all la-
dies interested upon these subjects. This
meeting is called at the suggestion of
Miss Eliza R. Snow,	Mrs. Priscilla Staines.
Mrs. M. I. Horne,		  "	E. B. Wells.
"	Zina D. Young,	  "	B. W. Smith,
"	Phebe Woodruff,	  "	R. R. Grant,
"	Hannnh T. King,	  "	L. A. Wells,
"	Margaret Mitchell,  "	E. Howard.
	THE FOURTEENTH Ward Relief Society held
their Tenth Annual Meeting Wednesday, the
12th inst., in the Assembly Rooms. The yearly
report was a very satisfactory one, and plainly
proved the ability and business capacity of the
President, M. I. Horne, and her Counselors,
Secretary and assistants in office. Remarks
were made, suitable to the occasion, by several
of the sisters, also Elders George Crismon,
George Taylor, Supt. Sunday School, Bishop
Thomas Taylor, and Elder Edward Stevenson.
The meeting was a pleasant one; after its close
the sisters adjourned to the Relief Society Hall,
where a delicious repast was in waiting. Two
very long tables were set, and the guests were
soon seated and gracefully waited upon to all
the delicacies of the season by the young ladies
of the Ward. The party was a social one and
passed off pleasantly. President John Taylor
and Elders Wilford Woodruff and Franklin D.
Richards arrived at a late hour, and were
warmly greeted by the Ladies.
	THE YOUNG Ladies Association of the Thir-
teenth Ward had a pleasant meeting Thursday
afternoon, Dec. 13th at the residence of their
President Mrs. Elizabeth Thomas. At this
meeting Miss E. R. Snow proposed the name
of the Association should be changed from Re-
trenchment to Mutual Improvement, the mo-
tion was unanimously carried. Several breth-
ren were present by special invitation, among
whom were President John Taylor, Elders
Joseph F. Smith and D. H. Wells, Bishop L. D.
Young, Elder John Nicholson and William
Naylor; also Thomas Miller of New York who
has been visiting in this city for some time
past, but expects shortly to return home.
Many excellent ideas were advanced and much
wise counsel given to the young by those who
addressed them. Elder Joseph F. Smith in
his remarks dwelt specially upon the impor-
tance of the higher education and superior
knowledge women should attain, in order to fit
them for wives and mothers of the elders and
apostles of this church and kingdom. He
thought mothers should be prepared by all the
wisdom and knowledge possible to raise up a
righteous people upon the ea[-]th. The daugh-
ters of Zion should be trained in knowledge of
the principles of the Gospel and should know
for themselves of its truth; alluded to Woman's
voice in the Church, and the privileges she
had of voting etc. which were equal to the
brethren in st[-]ength and power and influence.
He referred briefly but emphatically to the cov-
enant of marriage as believed in by the Latter-
day Saints, and said that marriage was an es-
sential, a vital principle of the Gospel. After
meeting the guests were ushered into the din-
ing-room where a delicious repast was in wait-
ing; some of the yonng girls waited upon the
guests in a quiet, orderly and charming man-
ner, while in the adjoining room, others were
singing accompanied by the organ, which add-
ed still another pleasure to the social enter-
tainment.
	MR. JAMES Dwyer on the evening of Dec.
10, opened his new supply of books, pictures,
toys, stationery and fancy articles. Mr. Dwyer


[Column 1]

is prepared not only to retail books etc. in Salt
Lake City and adjacent towns, but to supply
country places, with articles in his line of
goods. He has suitable books on hand to fit up
choice and elegant libraries, for private fami-
lies and also public libraries for schools, Sun-
day Schools, Young Men's and Young Ladies'
Mutual Improvement Associations, having sup-
plied his establishment with all the best Stand-
ard Histories, the Lives of celebrated men and
women,and all the works of the greatest poets,
male and female, of England and America.
These books are of various qualities of binding
etc. varying in price accordingly. Christmas box-
es made up cheap at Mr. James Dwyer's; work-
boxes, writing-desks, Russian leather porte-
monies, pocket-books, and many other things
suitable for Christmas gifts, can be bought
there at reasonable prices. Santa Claus should
not fail to look in at Mr. Dwyer's as he can
find loads of beautiful and useful things to dis-
tribute on his round this coming Christmas.
	Mr. Dwyer is Special Agent for Heliotype
Engravings, published by James R. Osgood
& Co., of Boston. These engravings are choice
reproductions of the most attractive European
works of art, and are fast gaining unparalleled
popularity. The Heliotype is the only method
known of obtaining for one dollar, pictures
that would otherwise cost ten dollars each.
Tasteful and inexpensive frames will be fur-
nished if desired. These pictures are copied
from paintings by the best artists. There is a
very great variety of them, suited to the tastes
of different persons. Will Santa Claus please
call at Mr. Dwyer's.
	THE WOMEN of Utah have been solicited to
aid the National Suffrsge Convention at Wash-
ington, in preparing for the Sixteenth Amend-
ment. Conventions to be held at Lincoln Hall,
9th and D. Sts.Washington, D. C., January 8th
and 9th 1878, which will be the Tenth Annual
Washington Convention. We give below the
Circular sent to us.
	All Woman Suffrage Associations and all
friends of woman suffrage throughout the
country who believe that it is the duty of Con-
gress to submit a Sixteenth Amendment to the
Federal Constitution prohibiting the several
states from disfranchising United States citi-
zens on account of sex, are cordially invited to
send delegates and letters to this Convention.
	To secure the passage of this Amendment by
the Forty-fifth Congress, making allowances
for all the contingencies, we need to be sure of
fifty votes in the Senate, and two hundred
votes in the House of Representatives. It is
therefore of vital importance that delegates
should be present at this Convention from
every State and Territory, and that each one
should call upon her entire state delegation in
Congress and urge them to attend the Conven-
tion and hear the discussion of the greatest po-
litical question of the age.
	There are members in both Houses of Con-
gress who assert that no woman has ever per-
sonally appealed to them on this subject. Yet
these are the men who hold our whole question
in the hollow of their hands.
	That there may be time for these personal
appeals, the Washington Resident Congres-
sional Committee have made arrangements to
entertain all delegates for one week. Delegates
are requested, upon their arrival, to call and
register their names at Riggs' House, 15th and
G Streets, where they will be met by members
of the local Committee and assigned to com-
fortable quarters.
	All delegates are requested to meet at the
Ladies' Reception Room of the Senate at 10.30
A. M., Monday, Jan. 7th, 1878.

[Column 2]

	The Committee on Privileges and Elections
have unanimously voted to grant hearings to
delegates from every section of the country,
upon Sixteenth Amendment Petitions, begin-
ning January 9, at 10.30 A. M. A favorable
report from this Committee will have immense
weight with both Houses of Congress and all
the State Legislatures. Delegates will also be
heard from Judiciary Committee of House of
Representatives.
	The Senate Committee on Indian Affairs has
just reported favorably a bill to enfranchise the
Indians, who have always made of their wo-
men beasts of burden. This is an additional
peril to the women citizens of the United
States. The Mexicans, Half-breeds and igno-
rant, vicious men voted solid against Woman
Suffrage in Colorado, while everywhere in the
United States the dram-seller, the drunkard,
the profligate help to make the laws which
control the property, the wages, the persons,
and the children of the intelligent women of
this Republic.
	The Forty-Fourth Congress spent month
after month investigating frauds in remote
states, protecting the rights of men who did
not know how to read the ballots they cast,
while all the wives and mothers, sisters and
daughters in the land are forbidden to vote
for the party of their choice, or to exercise
their right of self-governmeet at the ballot
box.
	Then let the free-born women citizens of
this boasted Republic, defrauded of every right
man claims for himself, once more assemble
under the shadow of the National Capitol, and
demand in the sacred name of Liberty, an
Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States protecting the rights of women citizens.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

DISCOURSE
BY 
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG,
DELIVERED
In the Tabernacle, Ogden, at a Meeting of the
Relief Societies of Weber County,
July 19th, 1877.

REPORTED BY JAMES TAYLOR.

[CONTINUED.]

	One of the nicest things in the world is to let
an enemy alone entirely, and it mortifies him
to death. If your neighbors talk about you
and you think they do wrong in speaking evil
of you, do not let them know that you ever
heard a word, and conduct yourselves as if
they always did right, and it will mortify them,
and they will say, "We'll not try this game
any longer." I have seen men, and women
also, that are never happy until they are miser-
able, and never easy until they are in pain.
	These are little things; but is not the world
made up of little things? The whole earth is
composed of these small atoms of sand. Our
lives are made up of little simple circumstan-
ces that amount to a great deal when they are
brought together, and sum up the whole life of
the man or woman; and yet in our passing from
one to another our little acts and incidents
seem to be very minute or simple, but we find
that they amount to a great deal.
	Now, sisters, will you learn these things. I
want to see the children of this people grow as
they should; I want to go a little farther with
regard to our children. Commence, mothers,
just as quick as the child is old enough to un-
derstand, which is quite young. They observe
the acts and doings of the mother and whoever
is present. From these acts they imbibe their

[Column 2]

first impressions. Now, mothers, do you want
your children to be saints, when they are grown
up? Do you want your sons and daughters to
be good and great, and their lives filled up with
usefulness? "Certainly, with all my heart."
Then lay that foundation for their future life
by teaching each little child what it should do.
Teach that child honesty, uprightness and
truthfulness. Never permit a falsehood to be
told, nor the color of a falsehood without cor-
rection. Train that child by your own acts
and words, from its infancy, so it may imbibe
the principle in its own heart to be perfectly
honest. Teach that child to believe in God our
Heavenly Father. Teach it to believe, to have
confidence in Him.
	"Why, he is the author of your lives. Here
are your father and mother with regard to your
natural body." As soon as they can under-
stand anything at all, teach them.
	"Yes, my little child, but you have a spirit
within you. Were it not for this spirit you
would not have life in you. Here are the fath-
er and mother of your tabernacle; but you have
a spirit in you, and the father of that spirit is
our Heavenly Father, whom we serve as our
God. You must have implicit confidence in
this Being. You must depend upon Him al-
ways. If you are in danger, in the least, you
must believe in God, and ask Him to rescue
you, to preserve you; and your faith must be
in the name of Him that He has given, whom
He calls His only begotten son, to die a ransom
for our sins." And as soon as they can under-
stand, teach them with regard to the original
sin. Teach them to have implicit confidence
in the Father through the Lord Jesus Christ;
and every time they need wisdom to ask for
wisdom, and ask for understanding; and every
time they are in trouble, ask our Heavenly
Father to give them comfort, and they will
feel joyous instead of grievous, and will feel a
buoyant feeling instead of cast down. Teach
the children to pray, that when they are large
enough to go into the field with their father,
they may have the faith that if they are in
danger they will be protected. Teach them
that those good angels that are ministering
spirits, are their angels, to guard and protect
the just and pure, watch over them continu-
ally. And teach them—I am sorry to say that
there are not many mothers who do teach it—
that they may grow up with this understand-
ing that our Heavenly Father takes cogniz-
ance of all our acts and doings, and of us as in-
dividuals, and that His eye is over us, and 
there is not so much as a hair of our heads falls
to the ground without the notice of our Heav-
enly Father. Teach them these things and
they will grow up into this habit. You may
call it tradition, but it is an excellent one.
You can sow the seeds of infidelity and they
will grow there. Teach the children so that
when they go out of the presence of their fath-
er and mother, God is in all their thoughts.
Can you come to this understanding, mothers?


THE only woman's paper published in
America in the German language, is the
"Fortschritt" (the German for progress),
published weekly in New York City by
Anna Metz Ryland.


MRS. Elizabeth Oakes Smith, whose writ-
ings have been widely circulated for many
years, and who has distinguished herself as
an author in prose and poetry of real merit,
has charge, at present, as pastor, of an In-
dependent Church, at Canastota, N. Y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			GRAIN MEETING.

	REPORT READ AT FIRST ANNUAL MEET-
		ING, HELD IN THE COUNCIL HOUSE
		S. L. City, Nov. 17, 1877.

				CONTINUED.
	Miss E. R. Snow said: "I am pleased to
hear the report of what our sisters have ac-
complished; the subject was new to us, we
had many obstacles to meet, but I thank the
<havensucceedod as="" well.-as="" we="" yhavepistill-dtlooks="" very,="" little="" bpmpared'to="" nwhat)is="" before="" us;="" the="" lord="" nevenjspeaks="" in.iyaln?="" can.="" (depend="" on.hist="" word,and="" know="" that="" a="" famine="" is="" ,cpmipg.q="" :5v®="" hould="" taka="" into="" cpp9ideratiop,="" that.wo<are="" world'will="" want="" fp6d,="" we,ought,to="" have="" at="" letist="" sdtfdfr="" bti&hfels="" orwh&t'riext="" lyeatf="" tve="" hdvecbutlittle="" tihad-to="" plephfe="" for="" utile="" fer&ft="" ovgnt&tkahard'corriingj'="" ail,j!v'="" -hifcwe’jare="" very="" thankful="" ‘tor'the'="" hmp="" hafetedeived="" from="" brethre'niri'="" botoe="" -="" places="" they’have="" ‘="" "rendered="" 'great="" assistance="" to="" dh="" ©women="" lin.thisiihpb'rtahtiundertak-="" dingj="" h="" yeif="" in'="" i="" attending;="" ito="" he;="" gathering="" and="" stpring.of="" wheat;="" w©="">Lord that we have succeeded as well as we
have; still it looks very little compared to
what is before us. The Lord never speaks
in vain; we can depend on His word, and
we know that a famine is coming. We
should take into consideration, that we are
standing as Egypt formerly stood, that is,
preparing for the time when the people of
the world will want food. We ought to
have at least 50,000 bushels of wheat next
year; we have but little time to prepare for
the great events that are coming.
	We are very thankful for the help we
have received from the brethren; in some
places they have rendered great assistance
to the women in this important undertak-
ing. Yet, in attending to the gathering
and storing of wheat, we must not let other
important duties be set aside. I consider
it as very important to guide and lead the
young people in the ways of righteousness
and truth, and we have so much to do, and
so many duties to perform, that every mo-
ment of our lives is called for, either in re-
flection or action."
	Mrs. M. I. Horne said: "I look on the
grain movement as a very important one;
we have done pretty well, considering the
amount of discouragement we had to con-
tend with. I often think that some of the
brethren need converting in this cause, for
they ridicule the idea of women being
called on to store and take care of wheat. I
feel that in the future we will accomplish
the object we have set out to perform—I
feel the Lord will bless our efforts.
	"We should ascertain the best way to
keep our grain good and sound; every set-
tlement should have a store-house, built in
such a manner as to keep the grain in good
condition, and it should be turned over and
examined once or twice a year, to see that
no insect, or anything that would destroy
it, is in it. We must not weary in well-
doing. I am pleased with the remarks of
our brethren; we know that the man and
the woman is one before the Lord. If we
educate and qualify ourselves to be wise
mothers, we will elevate the coming gener-
ations. I trust that our report next year
will be much larger than it is this, that we
may have a larger than it is this, that we
may have a large amount of wheat on hand,
well and carefully stored."
	Miss E. R. Snow said: "If our sisters will
use their persuasive powers, the young
brethren will help them to put up the gran-
aries, and I am sure they will feel honored
in being solicited to assist in such impor-
tant business. It has been reported that the
wheat has been sold: I hope my sisters will
pay no attention to any such story; no one
has any right to touch a grain of it, only to
see that it is in good condition."
	Mrs. E. B. Wells said: "I feel that this is
an important occasion. I am thankful for
the good instruction we have received from
our Presiding Bishop and from President
Taylor. It looks as though we had not
done very much, but considering every-
thing I think we have done very well. I
hope we will be able to report 50,000 bushels
stored, at our next Annual meeting. There
are some wards in this city, and several set-
tlements, that have not sent in any report,

[Column 2]
and we know they have wheat stored. We
keep separate books for the wheat, and at
our first meeting we advised all the Socie-
ttes to do so.
	Our reports that we have received specify
that the wheat reported is in good condi-
tion, and how stored; whether in bins
owned by the Societies, or whether in bins
lent them by the Bishops, or other brethren.
We have had the wheat stored by the Cen-
tral Committee examined, and I feel safe in
reporting to you that it is in good condition
and all there. It should be fully under-
stood, that the wheat we are now using our
energies to collect and store away, is stored
for Zion.
	I do not think it wise to take the wheat
that has been donated for building store-
houses; but if the sisters will, as Sister
Snow says, use their persuasive powers,'
the young men will help in erecting store-
houses. I believe that the sisters all feel
united to do our best to carry out the instruc-
tions we have received. There is a little
more time, and I would like to hear from
some of the sisters."
	Bishop Hunter said: "It is very import-
ant and highly commendable to gather and
store wheat, I wish to say that the dona-
tions for the Temple, from the Relief Socie
ty, have been very liberal indeed; they
have amounted to thousands of dollars.
The donations sent in for the St. George
Temple by the sisters were truly astonish-
ing; even this week there has come into
the Tithing Office dollars and dollars, as
donations to our Temple here. For your
information, I will try and get my clerk,
Brother Goddard, to write out a state-
ment of what has been given in a short
time. I know that the people will take
pleasure in giving in their tithing and their
offerings, and the Lord will bless them for
it. I know that many would have suffered
only for the efficient aid rendered them by
the Relief Societies. Many things are in
your power to do, and in doing them you
will be blessed, and you are blessed."
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards, from Ogden, said:
"I came here to-day to receive instruction,
but I can say that Weber County is trying
to help in this good work; we have as our
report to the President tells, over 500 bush-
els stored, and we hope to do better next
year. I would have been glad to have heard
some instructions or suggestions given in
regard to taking care of our wheat, as we
are young in the business we need some
counsel."
	Mrs. E. A. Whitney said:  "I am glad to
be with you, my sisters; I have been away
resting for some time past, and am thank-
ful to be able to come among you again.
Joseph Smith said that the Relief Society, if
they followed the connsel of the Priesthood,
would be the greatest help in doing good
that ever was known on the earth, and
would be the means of doing a great work.
The teachings we have heard to-day are
true. They are blessings given by the Holy
Spirit, and they must not to be passed over
carelessly. I have held on to the promises
given us in early days in this church. Jo-
seph also said that the cities that would reject
the Gospel would feel the judgments, and I
thought then I should not live to see it ful-
filled, but I have. These things are being
fulfilled every day. I know there is great
faith among the sisters; I have felt the in-
fluence of their prayers, and been healed
when the sisters have prayed for me in
their meetings." Sister Whitney then sang
a song of Zion. Meeting adjourned until
Nov. 18, 1878. The congregation rose and
sand "Praise God," &c. Benediction by
President John Taylor.


R. S. REPORTS.

	CEDAR CITY, IRON Co., Nov. 7th.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We here send you a few items with re-
gard to our welfare, and our integrity in all
the principles of the great and glorious Lat-
ter-day work in which we are engaged. We
realize that the women of Utah have an
important missson to perform. Our various
home duties keep us fully employed, the
sisters here do their own house-work with
the aid of their daughters, also the family
sewing, thereby saving a great outlay for
our husbands; but still we do not neglect
our meetings, which as a general thing are
well attended and all feel anxious to per-
form the labor assigned them. We are so
far from head quarters that we have not had
the privilege of many visits from our lead-
ing sisters, therefore can scarcely keep pace
with the Northern Societies; but the past
summer we have had several good visits
from sisters passing to and from St. George;
their instructions will be a great benefit to
us in conducting our business affairs in the
future
	The young ladies were organized a year
ago, they manifest a good spirit and are anx-
ious to progress; they are a set of good girls,
and only need some one to lead out in dif-
ferent branches of home industry, and so
direct their energies that they may become
useful members of the community.
	May you, dear sister, be blessed and pros-
pered in your undertaking of spreading
light and truth, is the prayer of the women
of Cedar.
			MARY A. LUNT, Cor. Sec'y.

	NEPHI, Dec. 3rd, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you a few items in regard to the
welfare of the sisters here. We have not
sent any word in reference to storing grain,
because we had so little at the time the call
was made to report; since that time we
have gathered considerable more; we have
no place of our own at present to put our
wheat, but expect to have in a short time;
until then, one of our good brethren kindly
gives us room in his granary. There was
some wheat gleaned here after harvest hut
not as much as in many other places; still
the faithful few are trying to do all they can
to lay up grain and attend to every known
duty.
	We think there is a very visible spirit of
improvement in our settlement; all who
have a desire to see Zion prosper seem to
be willing to do all they can to help along
the good cause. When Apostles Woodruff
and Snow returned from Sanpete they met
with us in the Relief Society Hall; we had
a most excellent discourse from Elder
Woodruff. It was full of interest, instruc-
tion, comfort and consolation to the sisters.
He touched on many subjects, dwelt at some
length on the storing of grain for Zion, silk-
culture, home-manufacture, and with great
earnestness on the subject of training child-
ren and preparing them to be able with the
assistance of the spirit of God, to bear off
this kingdom triumphantly.
	Elder Lorenzo Snow bore testimony to the
truth of what Elder Woodruff had said,
made a few remarks on home manufacture,
showed, the necessity of our becoming self-
sustaining, and not dependant on Babylon
for anything. The teachings we received
from them were a most excellent treat,
which I think will long be remembered
and I hope prove a great blessing do us;
many seem more determined to live their


religion, and I think are striving to do all
they can to fill their missions honorably
here on the earth. Our Relief Society is
increasing in attendance at our meetings,
and there seems to be a desire among the
sisters to be more faithful. President George
Teasdel, Elders Grover, J. G. Bigler and
others frequently visit our meetings and
speak words of encouragement and comfort
to us. Our worthy President, Mrs. Amelia
Goldsborough joins with me in kind love and
many good wishes for the prosperity of the
EXPONENT.
	Ever praying that God will bless His peo-
ple and preserve us in the truth, I remain as
ever, 		A. L. BIGLER, Secretary.
	EAST PORTERVILLE, Nov. 26, 1877,
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	The Relief Society of this place is yet
alive, and trying to keep pace with the
times, and follow the good advice which is
given to us. We hold our meetings semi-
monthly, with an average attendance of
thirty-five members. We are desirous to
carry out the counsel of President Young,
in regard to storing grain. The sisters
have donated liberally here, according to
their means, and our wheat is well stored
and in a good condition.
	Yours, with respect,
		MRS. ANGELINE PORTER, Pres't.
			MISS AMY PORTER, Sec'y.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		111


[Column 1]
VISIT TO NORTHERN SETTLEMENTS.

			SISTER'S MEETINGS.

	Monday, Oct. 22nd, we left Salt Lake
City to visit some of the Northern settle-
ments. Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Zina D.
Young and myself arrived in Mendon, safe
and well, where we were warmly welcomed.
	Tuesday, 23d, we met with the Relief
Society at 2 o'clock, had an excellent meet-
ing; the sisters expressed themselves
greatly blessed with the good counsel and
instructions given them by Sisters Snow
and Young. In the evening we met with
the Young Ladies' and Gentlemen's Mu-
tual Improvement Associations; had a good
meeting, every one felt the Spirit of God
was there.
	Wednesday, 24th, Bishop Hughes kindly
accompanied us to Wellsville, where we at-
tended two meetings, and were hospitably
entertained by Sisters Howell and Whiton;
we had excellent meetings; many of the
brethren honored us with their presence,
and exhorted the sisters to cherish the in-
structions given, and appreciate the pres-
ence of Sister Snow by putting in practise
the counsel she gave.
	Thursday, 25th, we visited Hyrum;
found the sisters very busy making ready
for a good time temporally as well as spirit-
ually. Mrs. Liljenquist with the rest were
doing all they could to make our visit en-
joyable, and, as far as we were concerned,
they were certainly successful. Here we
were surprised with strawberries, fresh
from the vines of Sister Williams that morn-
ing; and Sister Snow was presented with a
pair of homemade slippers, of neat design,
by Sister C. Liljenquist in behalf of the
sisters of Hyrum. In the afternoon we
met with the Relief Society of that place,
and many sisters from Paradise, (where we
were unable to visit at that time,) were
present; Bishop McBride and his Counsel-
ors, with many other brethren also met
with us, and made many encouraging re-
marks. After meeting we dined with about
sixty of the Saints. In the evening we

[Column 2]
met with the young of both sexes, as well
as many of the older brethren and sisters,
and we truly had a spiritual feast, which
was enjoyed by all present.
	Friday morning, 26th, we went to Mill-
ville. After dining with Mrs. Pitkin, at-
tended a general meeting; Miss E. R. Snow,
by request, organized the Young Ladies'
Mutual Improvement Association of Mill-
ville, and gave them advice and encour-
agement to go onward in the good work.
Bishop Pitkin said he knew our visit would
be a blessing to the sisters; that he felt
greatly blessed himself.
	After meeting we started for Providence,
and arrived about five o'clock; we were
kindly entertained at the residence of Mr.
and Mrs, Madison. We met with the sis-
ters in the evening; Miss Snow organized
a Mutual Improvement Association of the
Young Ladies of Providence; we had an
excellent meeting. After returning to
Elder Frank Madison's, we were the recipi-
ents of a serenade from the young ladies
and gentlemen of that settlement.
	Saturday morning, 27th, we arrived at
Logan, and dined with Mrs. Libbie Benson.
We met with the Young Ladies Mutual
Improvement Association at 1 o'clock; af-
terwards with the Relief Society. The
meetings were excellent, and we realized
that in blessing we are blessed.
	After meeting we journeyed on to Smith-
field; we had rather a cold ride, which en-
abled us to appreciate the blessing of the
homelike firesides and kind hearts we met
there. In the morning we found that por-
tion of the earth clad in her beautiful robe
of white, so that we could exclaim! "The
snow, the snow, the beautiful snow!" Yet
we felt sad; here we were to part with our
beloved Sister Snow for a time, as her busi-
ness required her presence at home. We
met with the Saints Sunday morning, 28th,
at 9 o'clock. Miss Snow encouraged, coun-
seled and exhorted the sisters to live their
religion, and after blessing the people of
Smithfield, Bishop Roskelly accompanied
her to the depot and she was wafted away
from our sight. Mrs. Young and I both
felt sorrowful at parting with Sister Snow;
we regretted the absence of our more than
mother, and knew the sisters wherever we
visited would be disappointed at not seeing
her.
	Sunday afternoon at the request of Bish-
op Daynes and Mrs. Woolf, we visited Hyde
Park and met with the Saints there. We
had a good meeting; returned to Smith-
field, and met with the Mutual Improve-
ment Association, by the request of Bishop
Roskelly. We really felt that night that
God had been with us and blessed us in our
feeble efforts.
	Monday morning, 29th, we reached Rich-
mond, dined with Mrs. Abagail Pond; met
with the Relief Society in the afternoon.
Were entertained at the house of Brother
and Sister Traveller, and met with the
young ladies and gentlemen in the evening;
Mrs. Zina Young, by request, organized the
Young Ladies M. I. A.; forty-three mem-
bers were enrolled. We had good meet-
ings and the presence of several brethren.
	Tuesday, 30th, visited Franklin. Mrs.
Young organized the young ladies; we
were blessed with the presence of Bishop
Lorenzo Hatch and other brethren, who
blessed and encouraged us to do all we could
to promote the interests of the kingdom of
God.
	We next visited Weston; held meeting
there the same evening. Bishop Allen and
Counselors were present, and requested
Mrs. Young to organize the young ladies;
we had an excellent meeting, stayed with

[Column 3]
Mrs. E. Clark, and Wednesday, 31st, we
went to Malad, accompanied by Brother
Henry Gossman; we felt honored and
blessed by this venerable good brother.
	Thursday, Nov. 1st, we visited Samaria
and Malad Relief Societies, and organized
the young ladies of both places. We spent
two nights in Malad, one with Mrs. Good-
liffe and Mrs. Robins, and one with Mrs.
Daniels.
	Friday, 2d, we reached Portage and were
entertained by Bishop Hoskins and family;
truly we enjoyed our visit with them. Met
with the sisters, and organized the Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association.
The Spirit of God was poured out abun-
dantly; the Bishop and brethren present
spoke very encouragingly to all.
	Saturday, 3d, we returned to Cache Co.,
escorted over the divide by Brother Gibbs.
The blessing of God was over us while
traveling through the cloud and storm.
We reached Clarkston that evening; had
an enjoyable meeting there. Sunday, 4th,
arrived at Logan; attended Conference,
and that evening we returned to Mendon,
stayed one night at Bishop Hughes, and
enjoyed the society of his family; visited
the sisters, and next morning started home
by train, and arrived safely, where we met
our friends awaiting us.
					ELIZABETH DAVIS.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Sarah J. Hale, the editor of Godey's
Magazine for fifty years, will take her leave
of active literary life with the December
number of that very popular journal. Mrs.
Hale has entered upon her ninetieth year.
She has been a great literary worker.
	A RATHER remarkable woman, in com-
parison with the masses, is Miss Rebecca
Boyle, of Phoenixville, Penn. "Woman's
Words" tells us she is the leading business
man of the town where she resides. That
she began with teaching school, saved
money, started a dry goods store, enlarged
it, bought land and built, then started a
restaurant. Now she is doing a large busi-
ness, sending her wagons all over the town
and through the adjacent country; she owns
three stores, lets offices in her building,
and has a nice little home besides. She
twice ran for school director, on the Demo-
cratic ticket—not that she expected to be
elected, for Chester Co. is Republican, but
to test a principle—and she received more
votes than there are Democrats there;
many of the young men who had been
pupils of hers voted for her.	
	MISS Caroline I. Brooks, who attracted so
mnch attention at the Centennial with her
butter statuary, is giving exhibitions of her
skill, to raise funds to enable her to work
in marble.


A YOUNG man writes to a New York pa-
per that he wants to be an editor, to which
the editor of the New York paper replies—
"Canst thou draw up a leviathan with a
hook thou lettest down? Canst thou hook
up great ideas from the depth of thine in-
tellect, and clean, scale and fry them at five
minutes' notice? Canst thou write edito-
rials as they may be wanted—to measure?
Canst thou write an editorial to fit in a
three-quarter column of the paper, which
shall be in length just twenty-two inches,
having three inches of fine sentiment four
inches from the beginning, and nine inches
of humor in the middle, and an outburst of
maxim and precept nine and three-quarter
inches long at the close?"


112		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCIENTIFIC NOTES.

	Piazzi Smith, Astronomer Royal for Scot-
land, in his observations by earth-ther-
mometers, made at the Royal Observatory,
Edinburgh, has summed up the chief fea-
tures discernible for thirty-nine years; after
eliminating the more seasonal effects of or-
dinary summer and winter, like this:
	1. "Between 1837 and 1876 three great
heat-waves from without struck this part of
the earth, viz.: the first in 1840, the second
in 1858, and the third in 1868.
The next such visitation may be looked for
in 1879, within limits of half a year each
way. 
	2. The next feature in magnitude and
certainty is, that the periods of minimum
temperature, or cold, are not either in or
anywhere near the middle time between
the crests of those three chronologically
identified heat-waves, but are comparative-
ly close to them on either side, at a distance
of about a year, or a year and a half, so
that the next such cold wave is due at the
end of the present year." Mr. Smith, in
his letter, goes on to say, that as the out-
look from such observations are not agree-
able, he would be quite willing, for the
general good, to suppose himself mistaken,
&c. He thinks his conclusions will be es-
pecially unpleasant to political agitators,
who are moving amongst the colliers to per-
suade them to decrease the out-put of coal
at every pit's mouth.


INTERESTING ART RELICS.—On the road
from the Mount of Olives to Bethany the
remains of a Crusaders' church have re-
cently been discovered. In his official re-
port, which appears in the Athenæum,
Lieutenant Kitchener states that tradition
has long pointed out this spot as the place
where the Savior mounted his ass for his
triumphal entry into Jerusalem. In the
chapel, which dates from the twelfth or
thirteenth century, there is an almost square
block of masonry covered with paintings,
which are well executed, but badly disfig-
ured. On the south side is represented the
raising of Lazarus; on the north are the
disciples fetching the ass; on the west there
is a niche covered by an arch which was
probably supported by two small columns;
below the niche is a portion of an inscrip-
tion still remaining. This square block is
supposed to be either an altar, a shrine, or
a portion of the rock cut out and orna-
mented. The walls of the small chamber
to the south are also painted with a design
of squares containing circles, and the walls
of the church are painted in a common pat-
tern. The shield of Hamseh has been
taken down from the mosque by the pacha,
and is now in the Serail. It appears to
have been the cover to a baptismal font, or
of some vessel, and is made of bronze, con-
taining a great deal of silver. The work
appears to be Italian of the twelfth century,
and is very beautiful.


THE EASTERN war is still raging; Plevna
has fallen, yet the Turks made a brave de-
fense up to the last crisis. Osman Pasha,
it is said, annihilated two divisions of the
Russians. The terms upon which Russia
will make peace are causing a good deal of
excitement in England, and it is thought
probable that should Rusria insist in her
present policy, England will send a strong
fleet to Constantinople. No human power
can divine what will be the consequences
of this terrible war.


[Column 1]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.
	The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

	[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

		NEW FALL STOCK.

	F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

	THE LADIES
		Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
					IN THE
		OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descriptions.
			MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

		ROWE'S
			CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
	Big Boot, Main Street.

	No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

		HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
	CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
	READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
			AT
TEASDEL'S.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
			FOR ALL KINDS OF
	Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
		CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
	Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
			MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

	Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND RESIDENCE in 12th Ward on
2d South St., between 5th and 6th East Sts.,
six blocks East of Post Office.

[Column 2]
	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

	NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
	DRY GOODS,
					IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
	Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1878	No. 15.


VALE, 1877.

	BY HANNAH T. KING.

The year is passing, do I weep
	To see it sink into the past?
No, no, I have not one regret
	Of all its days, this is the last,
Had it no charms?–a very few,
	And yet mid all I have been blest,
But what a struggle life has been
	To gain one Oasis of rest!
One spot whereon to cast my Soul,
	And say to all, now peace, be still,
Let me in joy and sunshine bask,
	For one brief moment take my fill;
Yet life! I love thee! life alone
	is God's own spirit unto all,
And 'tis so rich, so full, so good,
	We need the wormwood and gall
To keep us in the narrow way,
	The plodding, sterile road of life,
To hold the lamp above our head
	To save us from much woe and strife.
Then pass old year. I bow you out
	With all respect, and grateful love
For well I know Time is a boon
	A censer swayed from hands above!

And though the thorns blend with the rose,
	And wheat and chaff together blend.
And shade and sunshine strew our path,
	In all a blessing God doth send.

And every day the eternal pile
	But numbers wealth, our own to call,
In the grand Future of our lives
	When God with us is All in all.

S. L. City, Dec. 1877.


[Column 1]

THE CHRISTIANCY BILL.

BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	This wonderful bill! purports to disfran-
chise the women of Utah, and also to de-
prive this people of rights and priviliges,
not only accorded them as citizens of a free
Republic, but that they have fairly earned
as pioneers of a new country. Settling a
desert land and building up towns and
cities, enduring all the toil and fatigue in-
cident to a frontier life is deserving dis-
franchisement according to the equitable
judgment of some wise men who talk about
honor and honesty and sit in high places to
make laws for the nation.
	But for the bone and sinew of the men
and women of this community, and some
whose graves are now fresh and green in
our memories, this beautiful valley and this
broad expanse of Territory, with its pros-
perous towns and villages, would never
have been wrested from sterility, and the
savage hordes which infested it.
	Having made homes in the wilderness
for thousands of industrious loyal citizens,
forsooth, some lazy, trifling office-seeker
would defraud an honest people of their
hard-earned homes and the freedom which
to true hearted men and women, is dearer
than life. Among other artistically(?) writ-
ten clauses there is one relating to the
"elective franchise" conferred upon women
in this Territory which we will republish,
as it relates specially to the subject for
which the women of our dear Republic are
now laboring earnestly and bravely. Here
it is. "And that the act of the Territori-
al legislature of said Territory entitled "An
act conferring upon women the elective
franchise; approved February twelfth, eigh-

[Column 2]

teen hundred and seventy, and all other
acts or parts of acts of said Territorial legis-
lature, so far as the same may have estab-
lished, or attempted to establish, any other,
or different qualification of electors in said
Territory, or any part thereof, from those
in this section above provided, are hereby
disapproved, annulled and repealed."
	The Bill goes on to provide for a secret
ballot, etc. Mr. Christiancy and those who
have labored indefatigably to get up this
extraordinary bill, should know how the
blood of true patriotic, American women
boils with indignation when reading this
miserable attempt at a pretext to deprive
them of what their forefathers fought and
bled for:—LIBERTY. Not only do we feel
that we are justly entitled to the ballot by
birth and American blood, but by the hard-
ships of a pioneer life shared with our hus-
bands, brothers and fathers. There are in
Utah New England women, daughters of
the old Puritans who will not easily be si-
lenced, and after forsaking home and friends,
enduring trials worse than death, they will
defend the rights so dearly earned, with
the true patriotism of old '76. We would
like to see this Mr. Christiancy and his col-
leagues who know so well how to dispense
justice, and how to dispose of the vexed
question "what to do with the Mormons."
	The enemies of the Mormons should not
be slow in according to this most honorable
(?) gentleman a vote of thanks for so ably
expressing their sentiments, and aiding
Congress to dispatch business of importance
in a wholesale manner.
	Does the right honorable (?) Mr. Chris-
tiancy think that Mormon women will sit
tamely down and be dispossessed of their
just rights? Rights earned, if not inherited,
by peril, by toil, and by sacrifice offered up
with bleeding hearts:—murdered prophets,
starved and ill-clad children, plundered
homes, untimely deaths of fathers, mothers,
brothers, sisters, babes and friends—and for
all these ten thousand wrongs recorded in
the annals on high, there is no redress for
Mormon women; and even this is not
enough, men must concoct bills to push
them to the last extreme. Of the issue of
such brave (?) legislation the future shall
speak in the voice of "fifty thousand daugh-
ters of Zion."
	S. L. City, Dec. 29, 1877.


[For the EXPONENT.
		TO THE YOUNG SISTERS.

	We, young sisters, should be alive to our
duties as a Mutual Improvement Associa-
tion. Our beloved President Young; in
his wisdom, caused to be organized these
Associations for our learning and improve-
ment, and also for a wiser purpose even,
that we might awake ourselves from our
slumbers, to know in whom we believe and
in what we believe. Heretofore we have
glided quietly along, day after day, and
year after year, thinking and caring
little about the things of God; but now is
the day that we are commanded to awake,
and arise, and put on the armor of Christ,
and serve God with all our hearts. I think
and ponder in my heart many times, of our

[Column 2]
conduct as daughters of Zion, and wonder
how it is that we have been left to go in
the path of folly and nonsense for so long,
but I suppose it was necessary that we
might know and realize the difference be-
tween the two paths. It is often said that
as the heavens are higher than the earth,
so are God's ways higher than our ways;
then I, for one, think it is high time we
were beginning to learn the ways of the
Lord, for if we ever expect to associate
with holy angels and dwell in the presence
of God, we have got to undergo a great
change in all our ways. We must become
polite and refined in our manners; our very
thoughts must undergo a great change;
yes, our thoughts and words must become
pure and chaste. Let us young sisters go
hand in hand in the path that has been
marked out for us; let us not be behind in
any good thing, but show by our examples
that they are worthy of imitation. Let us
be on our guard, and watch that we are not
led astray; we may think that we are strong,
but let us beware, for those not of us say,
"The way to overthrow Mormonism is to
bring here their smooth-tongued, polished,
fascinating men of the world, to influence
and lead away the daughters of Zion;" how
many of the daughters of Zion have been
duped by men who had no fear of God, no
regard for virtue, no integrity of character.
It has been the fate of many. Many a fond
mother has seen her daughter in the path
of ruin, and her tears and pleadings have
been of no avail. The daughters would
not heed or see the consequences; they
would persist in their disobedience and
"marry for love," but in most instances, the
first thing they know the husband must go
away, "to look after business," of course;
but the sequel generally is, they are for-
saken and left to abide the consequences of
desertion the best they can. This is only
the most general denoument. In hundreds
of instances the tenderest feelings of wife
and mother are cruelly betrayed.
	But I trust we girls who are members of
these organizations will take a different
course, and if brought in contact with such
characters, not be influenced by them in
any way, but maintain our own dignity and
remain true and steadfast in the principles
of our holy religion. We are their supe-
riors, and not inferiors. Let us honor our
divine principles; we profess to be the
choice offspring of God, and have His Holy
Priesthood in our midst: then let us stand
up and defend the right, and never be led
astray from that which we believe, but be
proud to think that we are among the fa-
vored few that dwell upon the earth, and
never, NEVER dare to lower ourselves to be
led by those that dwell in darkness, and
know not God. I most earnestly hope that
none of us will ever be guilty of marrying
an unbeliever, or of being married out of
the order of the Holy Priesthood, that we
may be recognized by Him and all the holy
ones that dwell in the celestial kingdom of
our God. May we live obedient to the
commandments of God; that we may re-
ceive His blessing, and our posterity after
us. May we be a bold and valiant band in
the truth, and do the will of our Father in
Heaven.							E. S.


114		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	Special meeting held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms Saturday Dec. 22,
1877, at 2 o'clock p. m., per appointment.
Miss Eliza R. Snow was chosen Chairman,
Mrs. E. B. Wells Secretary, and Miss Amy
Adams Assistant Secretary. President
John Taylor and others of the Apostles
were invited to be present at this meeting,
also Bishop Edward Hunter and Elder A.
M. Musser, but in consequence of important
business, the brethren of the Quorum of the
Twelve were unable to attend. However the
sisters were very happy to have the com-
pany of the Presiding Bishop Edward Hun-
ter and also Elder Musser. The Chairman
explained to the sisters why this special
meeting had been called. First, to transact
business pertaining to the Relief Society,
and Secondly to discuss "Woman's Suf-
frage," the subject of petitions to the
Forty-fifth Congress, etc. * Miss Snow stat-
ed that President Young had inaugurated a
movement previous to his death, which
she considered proper to carry out. At a
special meeting of the ladies of Weber Co.
President Young had appointed Mrs. Jane
S. Richards to preside over the various
branches of the Relief Society in that Stake
of Zion, and had appointed a meeting to be
convened three months from that time, at
which he requested they should bring a
written report from each society in the
county, of their progress and finance from
their first organization. Miss Snow then
said pursuant to this example it is the in-
tention to-day to appoint a board of officers
to preside in this Stake of Zion over the
various branches of the Relief Society in
this county, and to hold quarterly meetings
in this city, when reports will be read from
each district, or branch of Relief Society in
this Stake. After making these and other
more definite explanations, the Chairman
nominated Mrs. Mary I. Horne President of
the Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake of
Zion; the vote was unanimous. Mrs. Elmi-
na S. Taylor and Mrs. Sarepta Heywood
were chosen as her Counselors, and sus-
tained by the vote of the assembly. Mrs.
Elizadeth Howard was appointed Secretary,
and Mrs. Maria Wilcox Corresponding Sec-
retary, also sustained unanimously. The
first Quarterly Meeting of the various
branches of Relief Society of Salt Lake
Stake, will be held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Saturday March 23d, 1878
at 2 o'clock p. m. At this meeting it is ex-
pected a full report will be given of the
progress and financial condition of each re-
spective society by the secretaries of the
same. After the first report, quarterly re-
ports will be given every three months,
that all appropriations, disbursement and
matters of importance may be generally
known. There is no doubt but this move-
ment will be of great practical benefit to
those who labor in these organizations, as
well as of special interest to all who are
working for the elevation of mankind and
the progress of the Latter-day work. Miss
Snow said during her remarks to the sis-
ters, that should the sisters wish any aid in
making out their first reports she could
probably help them to references, as she
had by her, reports from the different
branches of the Relief Society, furnished
her in making up a full report for the Wo-
man's Department of the Centennial Ex-
position. After the first business had been
dispatched, the Chairman stated that the
women of this Territory had been solicited
by the National Suffrage Association, at
Washlngton, D. C., to aid them in obtain-
ing signatures for the Sixteenth Amend-

[Column 2]
ment to the Constitution of the United
States, which amendment is designed to
prohibit the several states and territories
from disfranchising United States citizens
on account of sex; otherwise to permit wo-
men to enjoy the rights and priviliges of
citizenship which is now denied them with
two exceptions Utah and Wyoming. Miss
Snow dwelt eloquently upon the heroism of
the ladies engaged in this movement in
the East, and the sisterly feeling they had
manifested for the women in Utah when
an attempt was made to repeal Woman
Suffrage in Utah two years ago; and further
that at the present time, a bill was before
the House of Congress waiting to be acted
upon, which was designed to deprive this
people of the priviliges they now enjoy.
She entreated those who had not yet be-
come citizens to do so without delay.
	Mrs. Horne arose and thanked the sis-
ters for the honor conferred upon her, in be-
ing called to preside in Salt Lake Stake of
Zion, over the various branches of the Re-
lief Society, said that she did not feel her-
self capable but by the assistance of the
spirit of God she would do her best in the
position to which she had been called. Mrs.
Horne made some remarks on the Suffrage
Question. Mrs. Zina D. Young expressed
her ideas upon Suffrage for Women and its
effects upon their elevation and progres-
sion, said many excellent things. Mrs.
Woodruff spoke upon the subject of duties
and trifies and their bearing upon mightier
matters, and exhorted the sisters to use
wisdom; alluded to the way in which the
sisters obtained the Suffrage.
	Bishop Edward Hunter addressed the sis-
ters for a few minutes, praising their good
works; thought he had a better opportunity
than any of the brethren to understand the
great good the sisters were accomplishing
in caring for the poor and sick, and in help-
ing to build Temples ; he said it was wo-
man's province to work in these noble and
benevolent spheres, and that they were bet-
ter adapted to minister in these callings
than the brethren. The Bishop alluded pa-
thetically to the days of sorrow that are to
come to the nations of the earth. Elder
A. M. Musser arose and addressed the sis-
ters, spoke of the necessity of taking out
their naturalization papers, those who had
been born in foreign lands, told them that
then it would be their privilege to pre-empt
or homestead land, which would help to
make them independent practically. Bro.
Musser said he had been thinking during
the meeting he should like to have some of
those honorable members of Congress; who
are urging special legislature, there in that
assembly. Elder Musser expressed his be-
lief in the essential help of woman, in all
that is calculated to elevate or ameliorate
the condition of society. His ideas were
quite in accordance with those expressed
in the poem:

		"The hand that rocks the cradle
		Is the hand that rocks the world."

He spoke of the opinions entertained of
this people abroad, and how they were
looked down upon, but said that a great
deal of prejudice was being removed. El-
der Musser is liberal in his views on what
is termed the Woman Question, he has
great faith in her capabilities and in her
spiritual influence.
	The Chairman then arose and made some
suggestive remarks and the meeting was
resolved into an Indignation Meeting, the
purport of it being to get an expression of
the feelings of the sisters on the petition
for Universal Suffrage and the Bill now be-
fore the House, in which it is proposed to

[Column 3]
repeal Woman's Suffrage in Utah, and dis-
franchise the Mormons wholesale.
	Mrs. Prescendia Kimball made quite a
patriotic speech on the subject; referred to
her ancestors as being valiant in the early
history of the United States, and concluded
by expressing her belief that God was for
this people. Mrs. Barney was very warm
upon the subject of freedom and independ-
ence, and illustrated her idea of union and
strength by relating the anecdote of the
King of Assyria and the bundle of sticks he
gave to his son to see if he could break
them. Her idea was "a long pull, and a
strong pull and a pull altogether," and we
would be sure to win. Mrs. Amanda Smith
spoke upon the subject feelingly, she allud-
ed briefly to the sufferings of this people at
the hands of this nation, and without re-
dress. This lady's husband and eldest son
were slain by the mob at Haun's mill, Mis-
souri, and a younger son was left by the
mob for dead. Mrs. Smith herself, was
shot at several times but the balls only
pierced her clothing. She had a babe in
her arms at the time, but it was no intim-
idation to the mob. Several other ladies
spoke a few minutes, and Mrs. Woodruff
proposed that the ladies express their in-
dignation and determination to stand by
the Constitution and laws of the United
States, and a desire that the day would
hasten when they could live under the laws
unmolested, by saying Amen, altogether,
which was three times repeated by the en-
tire congregation.
Remarks were make by several ladies
bearing upon the subject under discussion,
and a portion of the Christiancy Bill was
read to the assembly. Considerable gen-
uine enthusiasm was manifested by the la-
dies, and no doubt much thought has been
awakened to the subject of sustaining and
maintaining the freedom of religious lib-
erty, guaranteed by the Constitution, and
also to assist in soliciting for the Sixteenth
Amendment. Meeting adjourned sine die.

	HYRUM, CACHE Co., Nov. 20th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Young Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association was re-organized, Aug. 7th,
1877, with the following officers:
	Mrs. Boletta Allen, President.
	"	Mina Unsworth,		}
	"	Emma Williams,		}
	"	Saurine Liljenquist,	} Counselors.
	"	Anna C. Liljenquist,	}
	"	Phenetta Allen,		}
	"	Mary Evans,			}
	Miss Elnora Neilson, Secretary.
	"	Phenetta Anderson, Assis't Sec'y.
	On September 25, we were honored with
a visit from Sisters E. R. Snow, Zina D.
Young and E. Davis, and rejoiced in their
excellent teachings, for which we are truly
thankful and will try to profit by the same.
There was a full attendance of the Y. M. M.
I. Association; we had a good and interest-
ing time together, which will long be re-
member.
	Our Association numbers seventy-four
members. We have subscribed fifty dollars
to the Logan Temple, and since our organ-
ization we have made six quilts and nu-
merous other articles. We have purchased
two books, entitled "The Women of Mor-
mondom" and "The Palestine Tourists,"
which contain much good reading, and we
hope to make our meetings more interest-
ing with them.
	Knowing the good your valuable paper
is doing, we pray for its extended circula-
tion. Your sister in the Gospel,
			ELNORA NEILSEN, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A REVERIE.

Is there not light enough for all,
That some may languish in a dungeon wall?
Is there not air and sunshine, Oh my God!
For all that dwell above the earth's green sod?
That some may never feel the zephyrs breath,
But walk through life as in the shades of death.

Is there not room for all or must some give
Their fleeting breath that others still may live;
Not bread for all thy children here below,
That some the bitter pangs of hunger know,
And while bright streams of water flowing by,
Must fit the deepest anguish thirsting die.

Is there not love enough for all on earth,
Or must some have a desolated hearth:
That one may drink the sunshine pure and high
And others deep within the darkness sigh?
Tho’ sweet and clear may be the minstrel's strain,
Its notes are touched in hearts by keenest pain.

Upon the breeze we hear the happy song,
A wail of anguish bears the next along,
Laughter comes mingled with deep sorrow's cry,
And comes unto our heart the question why—
The same hand gives, the same hand takes away,
'Tis hard to learn life’s lesson day by day.

Our earth is stricken sore her borders fair
Blighted and perishing with sin and care;
God’s providences oft seems strange and dim,
Our eyes too weak and blind to look to Him
Who gave his life upon the cross to tell,
Our Father loved his children, Oh! so well.

He gave the noblest, best beloved of all.
And through the One saved millions from the fall;
And when we doubt his love could we but turn
To Calvary’s cross where love doth purest burn,
Its radiant beam through ages still as bright
As it shone forth upon that bitter night.

When those who loved him stood afar and wept,
And fear and horror o’er the wicked crept;
As darkness terrible and thunder's roil
Shrouded and shook the earth from pole to pole,
While from the Cross His voice in prayer arose
To God for mercy on his bitter foes.

"The world which sets this right,” we there shall
	know
Why purest joy is linked to keenest woe;
If we but seek the paths which Christ has trod
And steadfast hold unto the "iron rod,"
Life's mists and darkness all shall flee away,
Before the dawn of the Millennial day.
								Hope.


[For the Exponent.
PICTURES IN THE NEW YEAR.

	And so the Old Year has gone, and the
New Year ushered in. The last swirl of
the wings of old '77 has died away, and we
stand in the dim, misty dawn of the open-
ing year. How many buried hopes—how
many bitter tears—how many aching hearts,
have seared and blistered the pages of the
book now closed forever. And yet, me-
thinks I see, in the faint morning light,
fonr figures, with faces turned to the future,
awaiting the events which are coming with
stealthy steps.
	The first is an old man, bent and worn.
His dim, aged eyes are lifted, with scarcely
a passing interest to the scene which daily
unfolds to his gaze. His face is patient and
sad. His heart echoes no hope, but to die,
and that in peace. By his side stands a
woman, whose dignified mien and comely
form denote her the wife and mother.
Calmly and serenely she looks forward, for
she has been so purified by trials and sweet-
ened by adversity, that her conscience is
like a spring of clear water. She hath
taught her children righteousness and sur-
rounded them with the atmosphere of truth.
The third figure in the group, with restless
feet and eager eyes, scans the distant hori-
zon with hope, not fear; with confidence,
not doubt. The curving, melting outlines
of her form bespeak the maiden, whose
first sweet flush of youth has not yet been
weighted with care, or saddened with grief.
Her dreams are sweet, but pity 'tis they're


mostly dreams! but who can tell? beneath
the sparkling, dancing surface may be the
grandest possibilities of rich, ripe fruits.
Clinging to her arm, a little child with up-
lifted eyes and smiling lips looks bravely
forward. With the blank patience of child-
hood he calmly awaits the day, when time
shall usher in the life which the future
holds for him. He simply knows that all
his wants shall be supplied; and cares but
little for the rest.
	Do ye not see some one of these four pic-
tures, framed in your hearts and homes?
And if ye do, seek with love to comfort and
aid the faltering steps of age; lift some of
the burdening cares of ripe maturity; guide
the steps of wayward youth; and teach by
example, and engraft upon the mind of
rosy childhood Divine Truth.
	S. L. City, Jan. 1, 1877.	S. Y. D.


[For the EXPONENT.
REFORMATION IN ORTHOGRAPHY.

	It seems to be a day of reformation, a
time of improvement, in more things than
one.  There is scarcely anything in our
everyday lives, but that needs more or less
re-modeling.  Considerable has been said,
and a little has been done, in regard to or-
thography.  All admit the great need of an
improvement in our mode of spelling.  A
great amount of time is required to master
the art, more than we can spare out of our
short lives.  Very few ever become profi-
cient in spelling; there is no regular sys-
tem, but each word has to be learned sepa-
rately, and with the vast amount of words
in the English language, it takes a great deal
of time that ought to be spent in learning
other branches of school education.
	Now, if we could have a system that
spells by sound, it would be much easier,
and much time would be saved, which is
an important item with the young of the
rising generation.  It is better to learn cor-
rectly at first; it is very hard to erase from
the mind false impressions, and it is diffi-
cult to receive the truth when the mind is
clogged with error. False ideas and bad
habits and customs by long usage become
second nature, and it is hard to discern be-
tween truth and error until the mind is free
from prejudice and false notions; hence the
necessity of beginning the education right.
When I see children beginning to go to
school, and learning the present system (or
no system) of spelling, I look with pity
upon so much waste of time, and so much
needless labor.  There is a right way to
do everything, and we as Latter-day Saints
ought to be able to introduce a better mode
of spelling than any that exists at the pres-
ent time.  Our alphabet is very imperfect,
not having all the sounds represented, and
having some letters that are worse than
useless, they are w, x, y, q, c.  Many let-
ters are used where they should not be
used; some letters represent two sounds;
this should not be; one letter should not
represent more than one sound.  For those
letters that are discarded it will be neces-
sary to substitute others, or adopt new ones.
Now my idea of spelling is to analyze words
and find the sounds that make the word,
and when we have found out what sounds
are in a word, there will be no trouble in
spelling it correctly; nor any trouble in
knowing how to pronounce a word when
we hear it spelled.  The true way of spell-
ing is very easy to the new beginner, more
so than is possible to those who have re-
ceived their early impressions incorrectly;
yet they, by the assistance of the Holy
Spirit, will be enabled to discern the truth.
The voice or breathing sound is necessary
to articulate letters, therefore no vowel
should be allowed to end a consonant., but
they should be sounded, ub, ud, um, un,
and so on.  Every sound that can be made,
or is used in speaking, should have a char-
acter to represent it, and have place in the
Alphabet.
	The letters we should adopt that we have
not got are sounds such as these signify:
ush, uzh, ung; uth flat, uth sharp; e should
be used instead of y, oo, as in book, should
be used instead of w; uh is the voice or
breath, and should be used where h is now
used; u should have but one sound as a, e,
i, each have.  The way we pronounce it,
it has two sounds, e and u, yu; w is a com-
bination of sounds, so cannot be a letter
but a word; letters should not be spelt by
words, but words by letters; it should not
be possible to spell a letter, they are, or
should be but one sound.
	The old characters can be retained as
far as they go, or new ones adopted, but
none should represent more than one sound.
There are thirty-four sounds in our lan-
guage.  One kind of letter is sufficient, the
capitals being made larger than the others.
It is difficult to write on this subject as there
are not characters to represent all the sounds.
It might be made plainer to the under-
standing by speaking upon it.  The modi-
fied oo as in book, and the full sound oo as
in boon, may be represented by one char-
acter, or two, as may be determined here-
after, giving the Alphabet thirty-five let-
ters.
ub.			ut.			a as in hate.
ud.			uv.			"	" hat.
uf.			uz.				" " hard.
ug.			uch.			"	" hall.
uk.			ush.			e	" meet.
ul.			uzh.			"	" met.
um.			ung.			i	" ride.
un.			uth, sharp.	"	" bit
up.			uth, flat.		o	" note.
ux.			uj.			oo	" book,
us.			uh as in nut.	u	" rule.
ow as in owl.
	S. L, City, Nov. 18, 1877.	E. N. G.


MUSIC.

	Mnsic—that mystic power which sways
mens hearts, whether they will or no—how
sweet and yet how strong its influence!
and how thankful we should be to our
Heavenly Father for this precious gift; not
for that only which emanates from costly
instruments, but for that also which, though
humble, is no less sweet.
	From each rock and tree by the roadside
comes the songs of birds thrilling our hearts
with exquisite joy. Ah, how sweet are the
songs of happy woodland birds. And the
human voice—what is sweeter, purer than
the joy of some young spirit finding vent
in musical sounds? Thanks be to the Di-
vine Master for implanting in our hearts
this love for music. What other gift could
he have conferred upon us that would add
to our happiness as this does?
	O music, thy power is indeed a mystic
one. When we are weary and sore oppress-
ed, thy voice can roll away the burden;
when our whole being is swayed by uncon-
trollable passions, thou canst calm the
troubled waters; and when the spirit of
good seems to have flown far from us, thou
canst influence us to return to his guidance.
	O music, thou art indeed a blessing!
With thy help we can ascend to heights of
joy before ne'er dreamed of; and can com-
fort the sick, cheer the last moments of the
dying, and help the lost wanderer back to
the fold.				JAMES PERRIGO.


l16
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMILINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthy, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JAN. 1, 1878.


[Column 1]
		A HAPPY NEW YEAR.

	A Happy New Year! How familiar this
phrase has become. Yet what fascination it
still has for us all, as it rings out heartily from
some dear friend. What shall it bring to us?
is one of the first thoughts which spontane-
ously arises in the mind. It is a time sugges-
tive of reflection, when we launch forth upon
untried ground. Although one may pursue
the same daily avocations, may not even have
a holiday (for holidays are rarities to some),
yet there is always something in the thought
of the New Year which strikes home to the
inner self, and appeals strongly to the better
nature within. There is really something
emotional in the thought that a new record is
to be entered upon, a new era is opening, in
which perhaps a brighter and cheerier prospect
may dawn upon our lives. Our hearts seem
drawn out in kindlier feelings towards all man-
kind, and involuntarily we grow charitable
towards others, as we feel the need of charity
and forbearance being extended to us. How
much good we poor mortals could do to one an-
other, if we were a little more kindly, a little
more thoughtful, a little more generous towards
a brother, or sister. In the cultivation of the
finer feelings and manner there is certainly a
great lack. It is often said, "So and So has a
rough manner, is abrupt in speech, but his
heart is all right;" and people readily accept
the explanation especially if their own tender
feelings have not been wounded too often.
But surely there is such a thing as being noble
and magnanimous at heart, and giving some
token of it by one's manner. Or is the world
so full of spurious courtesy, that a real gentle-
man, or lady, must, forsooth, adopt the man-
ners of a boor, rather than be classed with the
polished, lest they should be thought hypo-
crites. One thing is certain, that the delicate
deference and chivalrous courtesy that charac-
terized the true gentlemen and lady, seem to
have become almost a thing of the past. Or is
it because in this fast age people have not time
to observe towards each other those delicate
amenities that are always so pleasing in daily
social intercourse.
	There is nothing more desirable for any peo-
ple than to see their youth excel in all that is
noble and elevating, for they are to be the
strong motive power of the coming era, and
upon them will rest the great structure of so-
ciety, and they must eventually solve for them-
selves and each other all the great problems of
life. In the new year now dawning, would it
not be well for all to form some new resolu-
tions, and keep them faithfully, in regard to
their bearing towards their fellowmen. A lit-
tle more forbearance with the erring, a little
more courtesy towards their equals, and a tender
deference for the aged, or superiors in position

[Column 2]
or knowledge, would greatly enchance the
beauty and merits of young people. Indul-
gence has perhaps been one of the prevailing
influences in bringing about the disrespect so
apparent now, that it is spoken of everywhere
as the "spirit of the age." We trust we have
not digressed from our subject too much, it is
always considered in keeping to speak of the
New Year in connexion with improvement,
and if we have trespassed we beg pardon, such
was not our intention.
	Standing upon the threshold of the new
year just dawning upon us, and having so re-
cently bid a brief farewell to the one now gone
forever, we are full and running over with
thoughts of the future. There are many great
questions at issue, that ere another new year
dawns will probably be decided. Some of these
are of infinite importance to this people; but
it is well to cultivate faith and hope to the ut-
most. Those who have the sublimest faith in
God and His interpositions are the most truly
happy. It lifts the human soul above doubts
and fears, and surrounds it with an atmos-
phere of serenity that dispels gloom.
	Life is so full of changes to all, even the
most favored, that the cultivation of every
Christian grace is necessary to ensure even a
moderate amount of happiness.
	If the children now growing up in Zion are
to become polished stones, as it were, in the
Structure, it is time their education commenced
in the cultivation of refinement and good
breeding. If they aspire to a high standard of
excellence physically, morally, intellectually
and spiritually, then there is also need of it
socially. There are many faults to correct in-
dividually and generally, and there is great
need of progress in many things, but if we as
individuals and as a people would seek to in-
spire lofty sentiments, and encourage high and
holy aims, with the knowledge the light and
understanding the Gospel imparts, surely
the blessing of God would attend such pro-
gressive efforts; and if only a few resolved to
carry out in their lives such vital principles,
they could have a powerful bearing upon the
associations and tendencies of those around
them. We are not alluding to individuals;
we know there is still some true courtesy
among the young, but we speak of generalities.
	May the year upon which we are all enter-
ing prove not only one of anticipation of great
and good results, but the realization of a change
which shall bring about, eventually, the res-
toration of rights to those now oppressed. May
our Father grant that the bills now before the
Forty-fifth Congress to better the condition of
society may be carried, and that all bills calcu-
lated to oppress loyal citizens of this great Re-
public may be null and void. May God move
upon the hearts of those in power, to so
amend the Constitution, as to give to all be-
neath its banners their respective rights and
privileges as one common brotherhood and
sisterhood, in their common country is our
prayer.
[handwritten] E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
	HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE LEGISLATURE of the Territory will con-
vene on Monday, January 14.  There is, it is
said, a vast amount of business on hand which
demands early attention.  It is to be hoped
these wise men will accomplish something
beneficial to the interests of the Territory, dur-
ing the present session.
	WE HAVE R. S. Reports and other articles,
also poetry, for the paper, which we are not 
able to publish this issue.  Our paper is very
small, (and we women have so much to say,)

[Column 2]
that we are obliged to manage shrewdly to 
make room for it all.  If our contributors will
be patient, we will do the best we can to please
them all.
	AUNT EM'S Letter and a poem by Emile are
crowded out to make room for comments upon
the Christiancy Bill, which are in order at the 
present date, especially as the women of Amer-
ica are working industriously to do for all wo-
men citizens what Mr. C. and his friends are
trying so hard to undo, lest a few heroic wo-
men–a little band of patriots here in the 
mountains–should enjoy the same privilege
of voting etc. allotted to the dram-seller, the 
gambler, the libertine.
	CARISTMAS DAY passed off quietly, and 
everything seemed to combine to make the 
occasion a pleasant one.  The weather even
was suggestive of the merriment and delight
which usually characterizes the holidays.  The
children were greatly pleased with the snow,
and the little sleds and mufflers and all the 
paraphernalia of Santa Claus was well-timed.
The merchants and shopkeepers took all the 
pains possible to provide everything of the best
quality, and make a tasteful display of their 
goods before the holidays, and money was the 
only scarce article to supply the ever increas-
ing yearly demands of Santa Claus.
	THROUGH THE courtesy of Mr. James Dwyer,
we have received the neat little work on house-
keeping and cooking, "Six Little Cooks, or 
Aunt Jane's 'Cooking Glass,' " published by
Jansen, McClurg & Co., Chicago.  It is pecu-
liarly adapted for little girls, to interest them
in the science of cooking, which is one of the 
arts with which the young should fully acquaint
themselves, if they expect to be good wives
and mothers and help to make happy homes
by understanding the economy of cooking in
the best and readiest manner.  The book is 
written in the form of a story, and contains
recipes for all the varieties of dishes for dinner,
breakfast, etc., and suitable dishes for sick peo-
ple.
	TO-DAY THE "Juvenile Instructor," a favor-
ite periodical of the young people and especially
the children of Salt Lake City, commences its
thirteenth year.  It is an interesting little
paper, most ably edited, and should be in every
family in the Territory.  The paper is designed
for use in Sunday Schools, and always gives
some instructions for little learners on matters
of Church History.  In this way children may
obtain a knowledge of facts, that will be bene-
ficial to them and give them correct ideas of 
what has been endured in establishing this 
kingdom.  There are many very instructive
pieces about animals, birds, fishes, etc., that 
please the children and help them to acquire
information concerning the habits of dumb
creatures.  We congratulate the editor upon
his continued success, and recommend the Ju-
venile as a most valuable acquisition to the 
home literature of the Saints.
	THE PAST month two very destructive fires
have occurred in home manufacturing institu-
tions in Utah; the Woolen Factory burned
down in Brigham City, Dec. 21, was a very se-
rious loss to the people there in many ways.
It threw men out of employment, and of 
course was a great loss to individual families
on that account.  The people there are ener-
getically at work clearing away the debris to 
re-build, and are hopeful of having a factory in 
running order by the 4th of July next.  They
are certainly a most enterprising people.
	Mr. Clemetshaw, the owner of the Trunk
Factory burned in this city about the same
time, certainly deserves the sympathy and aid


[Column 1]

of friends. He had just succeeded in getting
a little start in business, and had prevented
the importation of this line of goods among
the merchants here. It is to be hoped that Br.
Cleme shaw will prosper in his efforts to re-
establish his branch of  home-manufacture.
	ON WEDNESDAY, the 19th of December last,
tne Relief Society of Big Cottonwood district
held their annual meeting, which we had the
pleasure of attending, in company with Miss
E. R. Snow and Mrs. M. I. Horne. The meet-
ing was well attended by the sisters of that
vicinity, although only two brethren were
present. The minutes read on the occasion
gave us a good idea of the sisters' energy and
devotion in good works. The annual report
was brief and comprehensive, and reflected
credit upon the Secretary, and also showed the
economy and good management which had
been used in disbursing means. The President
of the Society made a few opening remarks,
and explain[-]d to the sisters the object of the
petition to Congress now being circulated in
this Territory—to assist in obtaining Universal
Suffrage. Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne
and Mrs. E. B. Wells each made some remarks.
The subjects treated upon were home manufac-
ture, the benefit of women's organizations,
the elevation of society, the bill before Con-
gress introduced by Christiancy; the building
of Temples, and other important matters relat-
ing to the latter-day work.
	THERE ARE so many items of interest in
writing up the editorial columns for home, that
it is impossible, in so small a paper as ours, to
mention all that would be gratifying to our
readers; but we would like to call the attention
of the people to the Commission Store for
Home Manufactures. They are constantly
adding to their stock new varieties of such
goods and articles as can be made in this Ter-
ritory. They have now so no very handsome
home maufactured ingrain carpeting. The
quality of the goods far surpasses that of the
same kind made in the East. There is no
sham about it; the colors are very bright and
would give a winter room a warm and cheer-
ful appearance. They have stocking-yarn of
a great variety of colors; table-covers and coun-
terpanes to suit the different tastes of the pur-
chasers; silk neckties and laces made here by
the sisters. An elegant assortment of flowers
for hats, bonnets, caps, etc. Shoes, stockings
and many other articles useful and warm for
this cold weather. Ladies and gentlemen,
please call at the Home Commission Store
first, before going elsewhere to purchase win-
ter supplies in this line.
	POEMS BY E. R. SNOW.—We have received,
from the Author, Miss E. R. Snow, a copy
of her second volume of poems. This book
has been published here, at the Deseret News
Office. It is tastefully bound in cloth, and has
upon the lid an artistic monogram. In the
front is a steel engraving of the author; the
picture gives to Miss Snow the characteristic
expression of deep thought, which is so well
known to those who are personally acquainted
with her features iu repose. There is no need
to introduce this talented lady to our readers,
for her fame as a writer has long been estab-
lished, and she is known here and abroad as
"Zion's Poetess."  Her book will speak for it-
self—there is no need for us to laud it; those
who read it will find a lofty tone of sentiment
in all the poems it contains. Many of the
poems are historical and will help to perpetu-
ate incidents and events in the lives of this
people. History combined in poetry is a por-
tion of fine art. The book was reverently dedi-

[Column 2]

cated by the author to President Brigham
Young previous to his death. Now, at its
publication, it closes with a very touching
poem written of his death and burial, entitled
'The Funeral of President Brigham Young."
The book is certainly a choice and valuable ac-
quisition to Mormon literature. It is a work
all young people's Societies should add to their
libraries. The price of the book is $1.25. We
say, Go forth, little volume, aud may you win
admiration for your pleasant companionship
and blessings for your author, by suggesting
happy thoughts, noble impul[-]es and holy am-
bitions.
	POEMS BY E. R. SNOW.—The second volume
of Miss E. R. Snow's poems is now ready for
the public. The literary effusions of Zion's
favorite poetess are of a high order and in-
spired with a heavenly spirit. They treat on
topics of peculiar interest to the Latter-day
Saints, and convey truths of great import
couched in chaste and lofty language. The
new volume contains upwards of one hundred
pieces and a fine steel engraving,—an excellent
portrait of the gifted authoress, handsomely
bound in full English cloth and neatly lettered
for the library or centre table. It forms a suit-
able Christmas or New Year's gift, and will
be sold at a low figure, to place it within the
reach of all. We cordially commend it to the
public aud have no doubt that the Relief So-
cieties will aid in bringing it to the attention
of the people of Utah. The book is published
at the "Deseret News" office and is a valuable
addition to the literature of the Territory.—
"Deseret News."
	SERICULTURE—The Deseret Silk Association
met at the Fireman's Hall December 8th, Mrs.
Zina D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young said she was devotedly engaged
in this work. The question was often asked,
was there money in it? Her answer was, Yes
by opening the way whereby hundreds could
find employment. It was for our own interest
to take hold of this branch of industry. Our
greatest drawback was the want of machinery
to prepare the silk for the home market, but
there was some prospect of getting it soon. She
had just returned from a visit to Farmington.
While there, she saw a lady knitting stockings
of silk and wool.
	Mr. Graves, of Provo, gave an interesting ac-
count of the progress of silk culture in the
southern part of Utah. He reported that he
had given to the sisters in the First Ward of
Provo an acre of ground to raise mulberry trees
on. There was not a place in Utah County
but had raised some silk. American Fork had
taken the lead in silk-raising.
	Mrs. Barney said it was over two years since
this association was organized. During that
time we had been corresponding east and west
for the benefit of this home industry. She had
traveled all over this Territory preaching silk;
trying to get the people to plant out mulberry
trees, and felt satisfied with our progress so far.
The society was a little crippled for means at
present, owing to buying so many cocoons of a
poor quality last year, which were a dead loss
until we get machinery to work them. This
Territory would be dotted all over with mul-
berry trees wherever they will grow, and we
would keep on until we make the industry a
success.
	Mr. George B. Wallace said he had been in-
terested in [-]his branch of business for a long
time and there were no doubts in his mind as
to it b[-]coming a success. Our bench lands
would be very valuable to plant out mulberry
trees on. We ought to encourage all home in-
dustries, find employment for our children,

[Column 3]

keep them around us and we would be a hap-
pier aud more blessed people. He was going to
plant out some mulberry seed.
	Mrs. Margaret P. Young said there was noth-
ing to hinder us from wearing silk dresses made
by our own hands if we would carry out the
counsels that had been given us.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young reported that Mrs. Car-
don, of Logan, was prepared to give a limited
number of young ladies lessons in the art of
reeling silk, on very reasonable terms.
	Meeting adjourned till the first Friday in
January, at this place at 3 p. m.
	R. SIMPSON, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DISCOURSE
	BY
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG,
	DELIVERED
	In the Tabernacle, Ogden.

[CONTINUED.]

	If I were talking to the brethren, I should
say no man in this church has the privilege or
right to enter into business, or go at anything
without having God in his thoughts, and ask-
ing for guidance and direction in all his ways.
And I will say to the mothers and sisters, now
give your children this correct tradition in
their yonth. As I was talking to one of my
wives, she said, “Who is there that teaches her
children these things?” I turned to one and
said, “There is one of my wives she has chil-
dren full of faith, because she made it her busi-
ness to teach them the tradition to believe in
God the Father, to call upon Him continually;
and God was in their thoughts from morning
until evening, all the time they were awake.”
Says I, “There is the woman; she has taught
her children.” Now I know that mothers can
teach their children; and they ought to teach
them, and this is my duty to tell you what to
do in this case.  Remember to traditionate your
children in the nurture and admonition of the
Lord, Teach them as they ought to be taught,
and they will have faith from their youth up,
and the Spirit of the Lord to direct them, that
they may never lose sight of this faith in Christ,
and our Heavenly Father; and when they are
old they will not depart from the good path. I
am firm in the faith, and verily believe, that
if mothers will bring up their children aright,
and give them that early training that they
should have, their children will grow up and
never depart from the path of rectitude and
truth.
	The mothers are the moving instruments in
the hands of Providence to guide the destinies
of nations.  Let the mothers of any nation
teach their children not to make war, the chil-
dren would grow up and never enter into it.
Let the mothers teach their children, “War,
war upon their enemies, yes, war to the hilt!”
and they will be filled with this spirit.  Con-
sequently you see at once what I wish to im-
press upon your mind is, that the mothers are
the machinery that give zest to the whole man,
and guide the destinies and lives of men upon
the earth.  Now, then, I want to talk upon
other matters.  You can  just as you please;
you can rule this Stake of Zion.  Why, here
are Brother Peery and his two Counselors, they
cannot move one step unless you say so.  You
do not understand this, do you?  Why, all the
men in this Stake of Zion can go to some other
country, but when the ladies say thus and so,
all the men have to come to the standard. “But
we have an independence, you know; and I
would not like to pin my destiny to any wo-
man’s apron string.” But you see the force of
this education, which is forced upon them by
the teachings received in early childhood.
	(To be continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS FROM THE BALLOT BOX.

	Woman's general devotion to everything
except what immediately concerns her own
highest interests, her self-abnegation, self-
sacrifice have been so long and so sweetly
sung by poets, priests and philosophers as
the acme of human perfection, that femi-
nine vanity is quite apt to take that form
of expression. Now to my mind it is rath-
er pitiful than commendable for our young
women to go about begging funds to edu-
cate young men for the ministry or for mis-
sionaries to foreign lands, to decorate
churches, etc., while the majority of their
own sex are ignorant, helpless, degraded,
too poor to enter institutions of learning,
and if able are denied admittance. It is
not commendable for women to sustain
churches, in which the gifted of their sex
may not pray and preach, nor share in their
offices and honors, nor have a voice in its
business matters, creeds and discipline.
There is not a man in the Methodist church
that has done a better revival work than
Mrs Van Cott, and yet a California bishop
refused to ordain her. On making her ap-
plication Mrs. Van Cott said :
	"During the last year, through my labors,
I have brought one thousand seven hundred
and thirty-five persons into the Church.
Have I not shown my capacity to fill the 
position?"
	"Certainly," says the Bishop, you have."
	Says Mrs. Van Cott: "In order to accom-
plish these conversions I have travelled in
one year 7,208 miles. Have I not shown
my capacity to bear fatigue and exposure,
and to renounce temporal comforts in labor-
ing for the faith?"
	"Yes," says the Bishop, "You have."
	Says Mrs. Van Cott : "In the prosecu-
tion of my ministerial work I have written
in one year, 650 letters ; and I have attend-
ed 828 religious meetings ; and I have
preached 399 sermons. Could more be ask-
ed? What man of you all has done more
than this?"
	"None," says the Bishop, "none."
	Says Mrs. Van Cott : "I have spent 1,776
hours in religious meetings during one year.
Has any minister in the land exhibited a
greater zeal and a more devoted steadfast-
ness in the faith?"
	"None," says the Bishop, "none. You
have traveled and written and prayed and
preached ; and 1,735 persons, received
through your ministrations into the Church,
bear living and joyful testimony to your
power in converting sinners to Christ and
saving souls from damnation ; but—but—
but— you are a—"
	The Bishop paused.
	"Speak! speak!" said Mrs. Van Cott.
"Say what I am that should keep me from
doing the work of my God and Savior?"
	Said the Bishop ; "You—you—you—Mrs.
Van Cott, are a—you are—"
	"Oh, go on," said Mrs. Van Cott. "Do
not hesitate to tell me what is the terrible
thing you would name. Go on. What ter-
rible crime have I committed, that you
should disqualify me for Christ's work?
Speak—name it—and I withdraw my ap-
plication."
	Said the Bishop : "I will not ordain you.
You are a—"
	"What am I?" said Mrs. Van Cott. "Out
with it. Speak like a man. Name my
crime."
	"Oh!" said the Bishop, "it is no crime—
no crime, I suppose, Mrs. Van Cott., but
only a terrible misfortune."
	"Oh! name my misfortune then," said
Mrs. Van Cott. "If it is one that debars

[Column 2]
me from ordination to do the work of my
Heavenly Master, then, indeed, it is a mis-
fortune ; but I will bear it. Name it, and
through Christ's help, I will bear it."
	"I will not ordain you," said the Bishop.
"You are—you are—God give me strength
to speak it! You are—a—WOMAN!"—
E. Cady Stanton


[Column 1]

	R. S. REPORTS.

	HYRUM, CACHE CO., NOV. 20, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On Oct. 25th, we were favored with a
visit from Sisters E. R. Snow, Z. D. Young
and E. Davis; our Bishop and his Counsel-
ors, besides a number of brethren and sis-
ters from Paradise, were present.  Our
meeting was one of great interest, and the
Spirit of God rested upon both speakers and
hearers. It is the first visit we have had
from Sisters Snow and Young, but we hope
it will not be the last.  Among other ex-
cellent instructions, they urged home in-
dustries and silk culture, and also exhibit-
ed specimens of Utah silk, which were very
beautiful, showing that our climate is suit-
able for that branch of industry.  They
also spoke in favor of the EXPONENT, and
urged the sisters to sustain it.
	The members of our Society, as a major-
ity, are alive to their duties, both in look-
ing after the needy and helping to build
Temples; we are goig to take the counsel
of our sisters and open a store for our
home products, and hope to have it started
before Christmas.
	CHRISTINA LILJENQUIST, President,
	N. M. NEILSEN, Secretary.

	SMITHFIELD, Dec. 13, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	On the 29th of October we had a visit
from Sisters E. R. Snow, Zina D. Young,
and Elizabeth Davis, from your city, who
spoke to us words of comfort and gave us
good instruction in the various missions
that women are expected to perform in
this kingdom; may God give us wisdom
and strength to carry them out, and may
these noble sisters live long to speak words
of comfort and encouragement to the sisters
of Zion.  In November, our esteemed and
worthy President, Elizabeth T. Morehead,
resigned her office as President of this Re-
lief Society on account of poor health, we
were very sorry to lose her for she has been
a mother, counselor, and friend to us all,
ever since the first organization of the So-
ciety in this place, the sisters presented her
a testimonial of their love and respect, we
also got up a surprise party and gave her
a number of useful presents.  Since then
our Society has been reorganized with the
following officers.  Adaline Barber, Presi-
dent, Cordelia M. Morehead, and Mary Jane
Roskelly, Counselors; Elizabeth T. Jushaw,
Secretary, Margaret Story, Treasurer.  We
have built a small but comfortable house to
meet in, and we had it dedicated on the
10th of this month.  We have stored up
some grain, not so much as we should have
done had the grasshoppers not destroyed
so much this season; we have a store start-
ed which we hope will encourage the sis-
ters to wear home-made articles, and thus
do away with importations from Babylon.
We are trying to keep pace with every
good work that comes along.  That we may
be enabled to continue is the wish of your
sister and co-worker in Zion.
	ELIZABETH T. JUSHAW.

[Column 2]
	VERNON SETTLEMENT, Dec. 14, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The sisters of this little settlement were
organized into a branch of the Relief Socie-
ty, January 26th, 1877, with the following
sisters as officers:
	Mrs. Jennet C. Sharp, President.
	"	Mary Hokensen
	"	Mary Ann Bennion,
	"	Elizabeth Bennion, Secretary,
	"	Lula Sharp, Treasurer.
[The following is typed to the right side of "Mary Hokenson" and "Mary Ann Bennion"]
Couselors.
	Our settlement is somewhat scattered,
and several of the sisters cannot speak our
language, yet our meetings are well attend-
ed, and we are increasing in unity of feel-
ing and are trying to do something toward
rolling on the great work.  We meet every
two weeks and always feel the influence of
the Spirit of God to be with us.  We have
thirty-two members enrolled, the young
ladies meeting with us, as we are so few in
number.  We have bought material and
have built a granary to store our wheat in,
of which we have thirty-nine bushels safe-
ly stored, in good condition.  Our desires
are for the success of all those who are
helping to build up the kingdom of God.
We remain your sisters in the Church,
	JENNET C. SHARP,
	ELIZABETH BENNION.


WOMAN'S WORDS.

 I rejoice that I live in this day and age
of the world, and I feel that I shall be dila-
tory indeed if I do not mingle my voice
and wield my pen for the glorious cause of
truth. I know that the cause of Zion is
rapidly advancing, and already the day-star
begins to shine forth in beautiful majesty
and loveliness; and woman's work seems to
be increasing; household duties and all the
various paraphernalia which heretofore
made up woman’s life or her whole duties,
seem to be only a part of the great life
mission.  There seems to be more require-
ments daily; and may God grant her wis-
dom, and humility and meekness of spirit
that her works may shine forth more and
more until the perfect day.  And now that
she is being called upon to come forth and
take her place beside man, to be his coun-
selor in the spheres that formerly was not
thought proper for “poor weak woman,”
Her example should shine before those not
so highly gifted, for all are not endowed
alike with nature’s gifts.  The power of
example is great, and while we are great in
goodness, let us also be good in greatness,
not forgetting to show ourselves kind to
the poor, and generous to all.  The Lord
said, “the poor ye have always,” as if there
would always be a test for us, and “if ye
do it unto one of the least of these,” ete.
Then we should not forget the small things
while alluding to the more weighty mat-
ters.
	As Christiancy is trying to get another
bill through Congress, let us sisters be a
firm phalanx, a unit of oneness, thaf will
terror the powerful enemies who seek to
overthrow and destroy our faith.
We have a good Relief Society in this
ward who are trying to carry out the coun-
sel of our late beloved President and oth-
ers, in Storing Grain, and all other duties
required of us.
	With prayers for the success of the EXPO-
NENT and all who assist to carry on woman’s
work, I remain your sister in the gospel,
ELIZABETH SMITH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		119﻿


THE WOMEN OF MORMONDOM.

	The Provo "Enquirer" thus speaks upon
a matter which will doubtless interest all
patrons of the EXPONENT:
	"While in American Fork on Thursday
last we met E. W. Tullidge, Esq., author
of 'The Life, of Brigham Young' and 'The
Women of Mormondom.' He is traveling
through Utah County for the purpose of
advancing the sale of the last named work,
a great number of copies of which he has
with him.
	"Considerable has been said of the 'Wo-
men of Mormondom,' but until now the
people of this county have had no opportu-
nity to form a correct or just estimate of its
merits. Mr. Tullidge is a gentleman who,
from long years of experience and observa-
tion, is capable of representing to the world
the facts relating to the history and social
life of the Mormons. He is not only thor-
oughly conversant with the subjects he has
written upon, but is one of the most gifted
literary men of America. In Utah he is
admitted to be so, and were it not for his
well known Mormon associations and predi-
lections we have no doubt his genius would
be more generally acknowledged.
"The 'Women of Mormondom' is verit-
ably a woman's book. It represents that
class of human beings so universally pitied,
maligned and scorned—the Mormon women;
we say pitied, because their social relation-
ship to the Mormon work not being under-
stood or appreciated, has been viewed by
some as the result of fanatical teachings, or
the exercise over their minds of undue in-
fluences, and for those imaginary reasons
the women of Mormondom have been made
the objects of pity rather than of condem-
nation. While appreciating this charitable
view of their condition, however, the wo-
men of Utah, through Mr. Tullidge, have
undertaken to place themselves in a proper
light before the world. They are voluntary
disciples of Mormonism and esteem their
relationship thereto as wives, mothers and
saints, above all else on earth. This is 
their position, and they do not wish the
world to be misled in regard to it.
	"The book has been published by the wo-
men of Utah, and, besides the moral good
it will accomplish, it is likely to prove a
pecuniary advantage to the Relief and Re-
trenchment Societies, as a considerable por-
tion of the means derived from its sale is
to be applied for the benefit of those organ-
izations.


CORRESPONDENCE.

		ST. GEORGE, DEC. 16, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having read a number of Reports from
our sisters in the Territory in regard to
storing grain, and fully realizing that in
Dixie Land we can do but little in that line,
this not being a grain country--we cannot
raise enough to eat, and much time and 
strength is consumed by our brethren in
going north for our supplies—and fearing
that we as a people may not be fully under-
stood, and be considered as drones in the
great beehive, I beg to say, in behalf of my
dear sisters in St. George, that we are a
very Industrious people, faithful workers
in our Father’s cause.
	I think if the many readers of the EX-
PONENT could imagine the daily labors of
many of our sisters in St. George, they
would be quite astonished.  Our Temple
requires constant labor, [-]ime and talent,


that is most willingly given. The great
amount of washing and ironing, and the
time devoted to the work in the Temple is
immense; and all this labor is done cheer-
fully by the sisters of the Relief Societies.
When I reflect on the amount of labor that
is accomplished, day after day, by the faith-
ful sisters, I cannot help asking the bless-
ing of our Father and His servants to be
upon us as a people. In this Southern land
we cannot store grain (many can hardly ob-
tain enough to eat), but we labor faithfully,
and trust in our Heavenly Eather for our
reward.
	I pray God to bless all who are willing to
do their part, in every department of work
for the good of this people.
		Your Sister,			L. S. C.


[Column 1]
	FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE GREATEST CITY IN THE WORLD.—
London is the greatest city the world has
ever seen.  It is the heart of the British
empire and the world.  It covers within
the 15 miles radius of Charring Cross, near-
ly 700 square miles.  It numbers within
these boundaries 4,000,000 of inhabitants.
It comprises 100,000 foreigners from every
quarter of the globe.  It contains more Ro-
man Catholics than Rome itself; more Jews
than the whole of Palestine; more Irish
than Dublin; more Scotchmen than Edin-
burgh; more Welshmen than Cardiff; more
countryborn persons than the counties of
Devon, Warwickshire and Durham com-
bined.  Has a birth in it every five min-
utes; has a death in it every eight minutes;
has seven accidents every day in its 7,000
miles of streets; has on an average 28 miles
of new streets opened, and 9,000 new
houses built every year; has 123 persons
every day, and 45,000 annually added to
its population; has 1,000 ships and 9,000
sailors in its support every day:  Has 117,
000 habitual criminals on its police register,
increasing at an average of 3,000 per an-
num.  Has more than one third of all the
crime in the country committed in it; has
23,000 persons living in its common lodg-
ing houses; has as many beer shops and gin
palaces as would, if placed side by side,
stretch from Charring Cross to Portsmouth a
a distance of 73 miles; has 38,000 drunkards
annually brought before its magistrates; has
as many paupers as would more than occupy
every house in Brighton; has upwards of
1,000,000 of habitual neglectors of public
worship; has 60 miles of open shops every
Lord's day; has need of 900 new churches
and chapels, and 200 additional city mis-
sionaries; has an influence with all parts of
the world, represented by a yearly delivery
in its postal districts of 280,000,000 of let-
ters.  London has 150 railway stations.
Seven hundred trains pass Clapham every
day.  The London omnibus company have
563 omnibuses, which carry 50,000,000 pas-
sengers annually.  It is more dangerous to
walk the streets of London than to trav-
el by railway or to cross the Atlantic.  Last
year 125 persons were killed in the streets.
There are in London 10,000 police and 10,
000 cabmen, 10,000 persons connected with
the postoffice.  The cost of gas for light is
annually £2,500,000. London has 314 daily
and weekly newspapers.  In the year 1875
there were 573 fires.  This ancient and fa-
mous city of London was first founded by
Brute the Trojan in the year of the world
2,832, and before the nativity of Christ 1,
130, so that since the first building it is 3,
007 years old.

[Column 2]
	From the "Evening Star (Washington, D.
C.) Nov. 12, 1877.  The Committee on Priv-
ileges and Elections suspended their inves-
tigation of the Kellogg case on Saturday to
receive a message and request from the Na-
tional Woman Suffrage Association, through
the chairman of the resident congressional
committee, Mrs. Sara J. A. Spencer.  Mrs.
Spencer said:  "You have before you eleven
petitions from different sections of the
country, asking that women citizens be re-
lieved from political disabilities, or from
the burdens of taxation.  At the last ses-
sion you had before you petitions from ten
thousand United States citizens, asking for
a constitutional amendment protecting the
rights of women citizens.  I hold petitions
of a similar character from fifteen States,
and am assured by correspondents that peti-
tions of this kind are in circulation in 15,
000 post office towns in every state in the
Union. I came to ask that this committee
will appoint a time to hear one woman from
every State in behalf of the petitioners
from her own section."
	Thirty-six States?" asked Judge Hoar,
smiling.  "Thirty-six States," said Mrs.
Spencer, "and the Territories."  The chair-
man assured Mrs. Spencer that the com-
mittee would take her request into careful
consideration, and would report to her in
writing.  The hearing must be after the
present cases are disposed of.
	From the "Evening Star," Nov. 20: Mr.
Wadleigh, chairman of the committee on
Privileges and Elections, upon calling the
committee to order this morning requested
them to proceed immediately to the consid-
eration of the request of the National Wo-
man Suffrage Association for a hearing in
behalf of a sixteenth amendment for the
protection of the rights of women citizens.
After hearing Mrs. Spencer state the re-
quest definitely, upon motion of Judge
Hoar, the committe unanimously voted to
grant the hearing at 10. 30 a. m. January
9, 1878.


ECONOMY.

	Perhaps there is no word in the English
language that has been so foolishly nar-
rowed in its meaning as the word economy.
Most people think of it as saving of money,
as though to be economical was, in a cer-
tain sense, to be stingy or mean. Now,
economy in its true interpretation is the
art of management—is the wise adaptation
by which we arrange time, health and
strength so as to produce the best results.
It is human labor and opportunity wisely
and well applied; not a mere saving or
hoarding, but rather a wise investment and
expenditure of what we have. The young
man who saves the same amount of money
which his friend, who has equivalent means,
spends in attending a French or German
class, or in learning the rudiments of science,
is in no sense economical. The day will
come when knowledge of French or Ger-
man will be of far more value to him than
all the money he saved up by not paying
for the learning of these languages. He
will lose a higher appointment, into which
his more cultured friend will st[-]p, and will
be obliged to drone on in the position he at
first occupied, because he is not fitted for a
better. Time and opportunity are now
gone forever, and were wasted while he
saved his little hoard of silver or of gold.


THE science of life may be thus epito-
mised—to know well the price of time, the
value of things, and the worth of people.


120		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WILL MRS. Haitland please call at the of-
fice of WOMAN'S EXPONENT?

	WE HAVE received from R. Mathews &
Co. Prof. Barfoot's Balsam of Indian Root,
[Peah-Nat-Suah.] If we find it as valuable
a remedy as we anticipate, we shall take
pleasure in recommending it to the public
in our columns hereafter.

	WE DESIRE to call the attention of our
patrons to the advertisement of Bro. B. F.
Cummings, published in this issue. The
Latter-day Saints should be earnest, and en-
ergetic in looking up genealogies, and this
is an excellent opportunity for New Eng-
land people. There is a vast labor connect-
ed with the work for the dead, and the
time is hastening. Procrastination on this
subject may be a grevious sin.


FLOWERS.

	THERE is a gift that is almost a blow, and
there is a kind word that is munificence;
so much is there in the way of doing
things.

	A SAD thing is the life that gives itself
up to dreams and calls weakness strength—
as if the misty purposelessness that too of-
ten mars genius were itself genius!

	MAN can never come up to his ideal
standard; it is the nature of the immortal
spirit to raise that standard higher and
higher, and as it goes from strength to
strength still upward or onward. Accord-
ingly the wisest and greatest men are ever
the most modest.

	"THERE is nothing," says Plato, "so de-
lightful as the hearing and speaking of
truth." For this reason there is no conver-
sation so agreeable as that of a man of in-
tegrity, who hears without any intention to
betray, and speaks without any intention
to deceive.

	No great work of imagination was ever
performed by a merely imaginative mind.
Men do not dream immortal poems and pic-
tures. Common sense must be kept in
view, for it will lend imagination greater
strength than it could possibly have unaid-
ed, all the more because it will check its
exhausting itself in fruitless vagaries.

	NATURE has written upon the flowers
that sweeten the air, upon the breeze that
rocks the flower upon its stem, upon the
rain-drops that swell the mighty river, up-
on the dew-drops that refresh the smallest
sprig of moss that rears its head in the des-
ert, upon the ocean that rocks every ship
upon its breast, upon every penciled shell
that sleeps in the caverns of the deep, as
well as upon the mighty sun that warms
and cheers the millions of creatures that
live in its light—upon all is written—"None
of us liveth to himself."

	A GENTLEMAN coming into the room of
the late Dr. Barton, told him that Mr. Vow-
el was dead. "What!" said he, Vowel
dead! Let us be thankful that it was
neither u nor i."


[Column 1]
GENEALOGICAL
LATTER-DAY SAINTS who come from the states o
New England, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania
or Delaware, or whose ancestors were natives of either
of those states, who desire to obtain their Genealogies,
could not do better than to e ploy B. F. Cummings. Jr.,
who proposes to go east for that [-]urpose during the 
p esent Winter.  Parties interested should send for Cir-
cular giving terms and full instructions.
	Address,
	B. F. CUMMINGS, JR...
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

[Column 2]
FRENCH HAIR STORE

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
	JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City. 97 Kimball Block.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency
[Drawing of knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings corner.  Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
	GEO. A. LUKE & CO.,
	Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods, Etc., Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of 
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE 
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING,
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yar[-]s, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descr[-]ptions
	MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S 
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH 
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
AT
TEASDEL'S.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY,
FOR ALL KINDS OF 
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
	MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND RESIDENCE in 12th Ward on
2d South St., between 5th and 6th East Sts.,
six blocks East of Post Office.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kind of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.
	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
DRY GOODS,
IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1878.	No. 16.


MY SISTER.

BY ELLEN SIMS.

Fit mate for Clara Vere de Vere,
	You sought our hilly homestead brown,
To find the health that you had lost
	In winter's wild campaign in town.
For trout you sought our crystal streams;
	You sketched our hills and valleys wild;
In idle moments sought to win
	A maiden's pure heart, undefiled.

Though knowing naught of worldly guile,
	She saw your soul with truthful eyes;
Beneath your studied speech and smile
	She saw the serpent in disguise.
"Recall," she said, "your foolish vows;
	It is not love you bear for me;
To-morrow you'll regret these words,
	Prompted by wounded vanity.

"What think you Newport's belle would say,
	If she her own sworn knight conld see
In rustic arbor, on his knees,
	Make love to country lass like me.
Conceited, useless, fickle, vain,
	Why should you play so vile a part?—
Merely for wantonness to strive
	To break a country maiden's heart.

I scorn you, that, with power and wealth,
	And your vast opportunity.
You sit content to spend your life
	In the soft lap of luxury.
Go choose a bride with lily hands,
	To wear your lace and jewels rare;
Of stately step and studied grace,
	Soulless and useless, vain yet fair.

Return to town; and when you find
	Such bride, midst fashion's devotees,
Reflect your worth would not suffice
	A simple country girl to please."
I saw the scene and heard the words
	As I lay concealed amidst the wood;
He plead no more his hopeless love,
	But turned and left her where she stood.

Yet backward glanced, as well he might,
	For fairer picture ne'er was seen—
In wild and gipsy grace she stood
	Within a frame of living green;
Her chestnut hair o'er broad full brow,
	In smooth, bright waves came floating down,
But backward thrown did not conceal
	Her graceful shoulders, bare and brown.

The bust of Physche could scarcely match
	Her bosom's perfect form and grace;
Her red lips wreathed in scornful smile,
	Her eyes the glory of her face;
She smiling stood, till winding path
	His form concealed among the trees;
Then turned and sought our humble home
	With heart as light as summer breeze.

Beaver, July, 1875.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
			AFTER LONG YEARS.
				LETTER V.

	What are the hopes that have grown with the years,
	Nourish'd in pain, and born of our sorrow—
	Christen'd by grief, baptized with our tears,
	Cloth'd with resolve and faith in the morrow?

	Since I addressed my last letter to the
readers of the EXPONENT another year has
rendered up its record, and a balance sheet
has been struck, and a new, clean page has
been presented on which to write our
names, and enter the list with our fellow-
workers and companions for the champion-
ship in bravery and heroism (if we will) in
the good cause of self-improvement and
progression. How many vows have been
recorded in the archives of the angels to

[Column 2]
begin anew, to redeem the past, to pay off
the old debts of neglect of duty, or indul-
gence of self—by adding to each day some
good, in recompense for the unfulfilled ob-
ligations of the former year. These are
some of the thoughts suggested by the ad-
vent of the New Year. Each successive
year brings us its changes, and its peculiar
retinue of hopes, desires and ambitions, in-
spired by the conditions of the times, and
their bearing upon the individual organiz-
ation.
	The circumstances and conditions of
countries and nations control the thoughts
and aspirations of peoples. We are more
or less susceptible at all times to the influ-
ence of surrounding elements, which act
and react upon our organizations, and pro-
duce their corresponding results. There-
fore we cannot be sure of anything but our
trust in God—for events of importance fol-
low each other in such quick and unlooked
for succession, that the most ingenious
plans may be frustrated, and hopes blasted
by the changes which may transpire sud-
denly.
	Any person of reflection must find much
food for thought in recalling incidents
which have had a serious bearing upon the
most important events in one's own person-
al history. Our lives are made up of chap-
ters, each one having its own peculiar open-
ing clauses or paragraphs. Some of these
are rich and racy, full of all that is most
hopeful, most desirable, and most pleasant,
and anon just turn the page and there ap-
pears sad and sorrowful events, which we
shudder as we recall, and thank God the
ordeal has been passed, and we have had
strength and courage given us sufficient to
endure, though we may not have overcome.
The trials which we pass through make our
joys rich by comparison, and teach us "to
feel another's woe" more vividly than we
otherwise could. Difficult lessons are only
mastered by great efforts and earnest appli-
cation, and this rule applies admirably to
the lives of individuals. When we have
exerted all our faculties and used our best
endeavors, there is always One to whom we
can look for inspiration to help us, and if
our faith is sufficient we shall not beseech
in vain.					AUNT EM.


NOTES AND NEWS.

 A ROYAL Marriage is shortly to be con-
summated in Spain.  King Alfonso and
Princess Mercedes are to be joined in the
holy bonds of matrimony on the 2d of Feb-
ruary next.
STANLEY, THE African explorer, is being
"feted" everywhere on his return home,
and loaded with honors.  He is at present
in Rome.  His success as an explorer has
won the admiration of all interested in dis-
coveries.
 THE GREEK politician, Demetrins Bul-
garis, died Jan. 11.  His death will pro-
duce a great change, no doubt, in the affairs
of Greece, as he was the leading spirit of
the liberal party in that Country—the land
which was once the seat of learning and of 
fame.
 A LARGE number of women's petitions
have been presented in Congress since its
session, representing a great many thou-
sand names, praying Congress for a com-
mission of inquiry regarding the alcholic
liquor traffic.
 THE TURKO-Russian war is spreading
devastation and distress over the whole of
Eastern Europe, and it is scarcely possible
now for England to remain neutral.  Adrian-
ople is now open to the Russians.  Con-
quest after conquest by the Russians leaves
little doubt but the Turks must eventually
be overpowered.  The Turks have fought
desperately to maintain their possessions.
England is naturally very much excited;
and fears are entertained that Russia, em-
boldened by her success, will force England
to measures of antagonism.
 VICTOR EMANUEL II, late King of Italy,
died in the royal palace, Quirinal, in Rome,
on Wednesday, Jan. 9, of malarial fever, a
disease which is quite common in Rome at
this season of the year.  The death of this
celebrated monarch will have an important
bearing upon the Roman Catholic Church,
undoubtedly and very probably upon the
war now raging in Eastern Europe.  Vic-
tor Emanuel II has effected wonderful
changes in the kingdom of Italy; has made
some powerful conquests through his daring
diplomacy and political tact.  Prince Hum-
bert, the eldest son of the King, and his
rightful successor, has already issued a pro-
clamation to the Italians, in which he says,
among other things, that his "sole ambition
will be to deserve the love of his people."
The Pope, who is himself very ill, sent two
prelates to the King during his illness, with
the papal benediction: it is said, too, ex-
pressing his regrets that he was not able to
attend in person.  The Pope is suffering
seriously from paralysis.  Victor Emanuel
II was the life-long enemy of His Holiness
Pius IX.
 THE FORTY-FIFTH Congress re-assembled
after the vacation of the holidays, on Fri-
day, Jan. 11, and among other items of
business presented almost immediately, was
the Sixteenth Amendment petition, offered
by the Honorable Mr. Sargent, Senator
from California.  Mrs. Sargent, wife of the
Senator, is Treasurer of the National Suf-
frage Association.  This gentleman has
shown his nobility of character, in undertak-
ing to represent the cause of the women of
America in the Halls of the National Con-
gress, knowing as he does how unpopular
said cause is.
	"Section 1. The right of the citizens of
the United States to vote shall not be de-
nied, or abridged, by the United States, or
by any State, on account of sex.
	"Section 2. Congress shall have power to
enforce this article by appropriate legisla-
tion."
	To-day has been appointed by the Senate
Committee on Privileges and Elections, to
consider, in connection with arguments
presented, the proposed Sixteenth Amend-
ment, offered by Senator Sargent in behalf
of the representatives of Woman's Suffrage
from the various States and Territories.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General meeting of the Retrench-
ment Associations was held in the Council
House, Saturday, Jan. 5th, 1878. The
meeting was a large one. Mrs. M. I. Horne
presided, who, in her opening remarks
wished the sisters all "A Happy New Year,"
and that peace, joy and prosperity might
be in their households during the present
year. She sought to impress upon the
minds of her hearers the duty devolving
upon woman, of seeking to make home
happy and pleasant, adding many items
relative to the subject of making a heaven
for ourselves, and concluded by saying she
would like the sisters to begin the New
Year by testifying to the goodness of God.
Counselor E. R. Snow in her remarks al-
luded to the promises made to the House
of Israel, and referred to the map of the
promised land as given by Ezekiel the Pro-
phet; also made some interesting remarks
about the Woman's Store, and the great in-
terest she had in the success of the efforts
made to establish home manufacture. She
also spoke earnestly upon the remonstrance
of the women of Utah in circulation,
against the bills now in Congress, which
are calculated to deprive us of rights and
privileges of citizenship in almost every
respect, politically, socially and religiously.
Counselor P. Woodruff said the sisters who
had spoken had expressed thoughts and
ideas which were in harmony with hers.
She felt it was necessary for all to live their
religion, and be prepared for all things, for
great events were at hand; we were daily
approaching a time of great importance.
She referred to the plain manifestation she
had received in the special meeting of Dec.
22, that if the sisters were united there
would be no danger of anything being done
to seriously injure our cause, but every-
thing would be in our favor. Mrs. E. S.
Barney spoke of many of the duties of life
being of special importance, small as well
as large ones; compared our position here
to a map with its latitude and longitude, its
smaller and larger points and so on. Spoke
earnestly and emphatically upon home-
manufactures, and especially silk culture,
the necessity of our energetic action in be-
coming self sustaining. Counselor E. How-
ard made some good remarks upon the
duties of life, and spoke of President
Young's farewell words to her on a certain
occasion: "Peace be with you;" said it
made a very strong impression upon her,
and ever since she had sought for peace by
cultivating it, and the Lord had blessed her
with it greatly. She spoke of observing
our fast-days, and gave some good counsel
to the sisters in regard to each Society
adopting some special branch of home in-
dustry, which it seemed to her would be
very beneficial.
	Counselor Zina D. Young spoke of the
Medical Lectures by Mrs. Romania B. Pratt,
M. D., and Mrs. Ellen B. Ferguson, M. D.
These lectures she thought should be at-
tended by our young ladies, who are to be
the future mothers of the race. She said
that she recently heard an Apostle say, that
if the education of either boys or girls was
necessarily to be neglected, it should be the
boys; for girls were to be the mothers of
the coming race, on which would rest the
building up of Zion. She also spoke upon
Celestial Marriage. Counselor B. W. Smith
wished the sisters a Happy New Year, and
made a few remarks, encouraging the sis-
ters to persevere. Several others made ap-
propoiate remarks, and a spirit of union
and good feeling prevaded the hearts of

[Column 2]
the sisters. Meeting adjourned until Sat-
urday, Jan. 19, at the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms.

	MONROE, SEVIER CO., Dec. 27, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	Thinking a few lines from the Young La-
dies Improvement Association of this place
would not be uninteresting to your readers,
we venture a report of our progress since
we were organized as an Association.
	We were organized under the direction
of President Franklin Spencer, Sept. 13th,
1877, with the following officers:
	Mrs. Julia Larsen, President.
	"	Ann Sidd,		}	Counselors.
	"	Mary Ann Jones,	}
	"	Francis Collings, Secretary.
	Miss Minnie Cooper, Treasurer.
	Since our organization we have raised
ten dollars in money, with which we have
purchased shares in our new Co-operative
Store. We have a Y. M. M. I. A., which
is in good condition. We with them are
combining our efforts to procure a library
for our mutual benefit.
	We hold meetings once in two weeks,
which are lively; in them we feel well and
enjoy the Spirit of the Gospel. We desire
to improve our talents and prepare our-
selves for usefulness, in obedience to the
commandments of God, for the building up
of His kingdom and promoting the welfare
of Zion, by refraining from that which we
know to be evil, by trying to elevate and
improve our minds, and by living accord-
ing to the requirements of the glorious
principles of the gospel of Christ.
	We are also raising some donations for
the Temple at Manti.
	Wishing success to your valuable paper,
which we consider a blessing to all the sis-
ters of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, We remain your sisters in
the Gospel,
		JULIA LARSEN, President,
		L. E. WASHBURN, Cor. Sec.

		WEST JORDAN, Jan. 4th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Annual Report of West Jordan Relief
Society for 1877:
Donations received..................... $181.90
Disbursed to the poor................    173.13
Stock in West Jordan Woolen
	Mills.......................................    700.00
Dividend on Stock.......................     169.51
Assessments on Stock................       86.85
Paid on Assessments..................       56.85
Amount in Treasury—Temple
	clothes...................................       20.00
Cash, sundries, &c........................       31.10
	We are trying to do all we can to help
the cause of Zion and to administer to the
wants of the poor and the needy among us.
We have our monthly meetings and we
meet together to make clothes for the poor
in our Ward and we have quite a number
here to support.
	The EXPONENT is an ever welcome mes-
senger among us, and we wish it success.
	We haven't stored much grain yet, for
the brethren are building a granary for the
ward, and we are going to have a share in
it, and expect to lay up more wheat next
year.
	Our sincere prayer is for the prosperity
of Zion and all her institutions, and our
desires are to do all the good we can. We
remain your sisters respectfully,
		ALTHEA GARDNER, President,
		LOUISA EGBERT,	}	Counselors.
		AGNES COOPER,	}
		DELILA GARDNER,	Secretary,

[Column 3]
			CLARKSTON, Nov. 3d, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place were
blessed with the presence of some of the
good sisters from Salt Lake City, and re-
ceived from them some valuable instruc-
tion. Meeting opened with the usual ex-
ercises, after which Mrs. Zina D. Young ad-
dressed the assembly. Mrs. Young said
she felt very much gratified in meeting
with the sisters in their new Meeting
House. She felt to ask the Lord for a bless-
ing in our meeting together. She advised
the sisters to lay up wheat for a time of
need; supposed they had already com-
menced, and explained that what they did
store up no one had any right to use, until
those who had counseled us to store it up
should advise us to disburse it. She said
if there was nothing more in our religion
than "Baptism for the Dead" and "Celestial
Marriage," it was worth living for. The
Prophet Joseph Smith in his lifetime said
the Relief Society was not only to adminis-
ter to the needy, but to save souls. She
spoke very instructively in regard to dress,
said we should dress so that we can feel
comfortable, without regard to the fashions
of the world; she also made some good re-
marks in regard to our food; gave some
good counsel to young men on the subject
of using tobacco and stimulants, and to the
young sisters on various subjects pertain-
ing to their mission here on the earth. She
advised the sisters to take the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. She thought those sisters who
were willing to live in plural marriage had
made a step towards loving their neighbors
as themselves. She bore testimony that
the principle of Celestial Marriage was true,
and advised the sisters never to say a word
against it. She told us how to bring up
our children, and said never to correct them
in anger. She also said the sisters could
enjoy themselves without doing anything
to grieve the Holy Spirit; God did not
wish us to be sad, but to be cheerful. She
concluded by asking the blessing of God
upon us. She afterwards exhibited some
specimens of home-manufactured silk arti-
cles.
Mrs, E. Davis said she felt thankful for
the privilege of meeting with the sisters of
this place; she was sorry that Miss Snow
could not be with us, but she would read
one of Miss Snow's poems, which she com-
posed in Palestine, concerning the curse
which rested upon the Jews. She advised
the young to seek unto the Lord in their
youth; their parents would not always be
with them, and it was necessary for them
to have a knowledge for themselves of the
divinity of the work in which they are en-
gaged. She related some of her experiences
in the church, which were very interesting.
She gave some very good instruction in re-
lation to home industries, and mentioned
the articles made by the sisters for the
Centennial Exhibition in Salt Lake City.
She said strangers visiting the city said
the articles compared very favorably with
those they had seen elsewhere. She en-
couraged the sisters to go to work and
manufacture all the clothing they could for
their families, and solicited them to sub-
scribe for the EXPONENT and assist in sus-
taining that paper, and by so doing aid the
Elders in spreading truth to the world.
She closed by invoking the blessings of
God upon all, both old and young.
	Some other excellent things were said
for our comfort, and the meeting was ad-
journed. Prayer by Elder W. O. Carbine.
		MARY GRIFFIN, President,
			JANE GODFREY, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REST.

Too little rest, too little sleep,
Too many hours to sow and reap–
	At last disease and pain!
Weak grows the never-loosened hand;
The strongest ropes part, strand by strand,
	Beneath a ceaseless strain.

Let him who burns his midnight oil
In lonely and unwholesome toil
	Think, when he trims his lamp,
That thus he trims his life as well,
And hastens towards the last low cell–
	Its darkness and its damp.

He who would travel far and long,
And keep a stately stride and strong,
	Must rest beside the way.
A ceaseless pace at first may win,
But he who halts at wayside inn
	At last shall win the day.
	
To weary feet all streams are deep,
All roads are rough, all hills are steep,
	As wayworn travelers know.
One hour of rest is a precious boon
To him who toils through heats of noon,
	With painful steps and slow.
Then, ye who hope to make your mark
Ere your last night-fall, cold and dark!
	And stand above the throng
On some far, sun-kissed height of thought,
Or do some deed no hand hath wrought–
	Work, rest–and so be strong.


[Column 1]

TO THE PRESIDENTS AND MEMBERS OF
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF SALT LAKE
STAKE OF ZION, GREETING!

	Beloved Sisters:—Through revelation
from God the Prophet Joseph Smith organ-
ized the first Society of sisters in this last
dispensation, saying to the people that the
Priesthood was not firmly established on
the earth, without an organization of this
kind. He gave the sisters much valuable
instruction, and predicted a great future for
this organization. In consequence of the
exodus from Nauvoo, this Society was brok-
en up. After the Saints were located in
these valleys of the mountains, President
Brigham Young counseled the organization
of branches of this Society, in all the Stakes
of Zion; and as the kingdom of God pro-
gresses in a more complete organization
throughout all the different Stakes of Zion,
so by the counsel of our late President are
the Relief Societies being organized with a
Presidency over the several Stakes of Zion,
to meet once in three months and have Re-
ports read from the different branches of
the Relief Society through the county. As
we have been elected to preside over this
county, we feel much need of the Spirit of
God to enable us in our weakness to dis-
charge our duties in this position. We feel
truly thankful that through the blessing of
our Heavenly Father, we, His handmaid-
ens are called to be co-laborers with our
brethren in building up the kingdom of 
God upon the earth, in assisting to build
Temples, wherein we can receive blessings
for time and eternity. In all the ordinances
received in the House of the Lord, woman
stands beside the man, both for the living
and the dead, showing that the man is not
without the woman nor the woman without
the man in the Lord. Then what manner
of women should we be? Faithful in per-
forming all the duties devolving upon us as
daughters of God. Sisters, do we appre-
ciate the privileges we enjoy, and the re-
lationship we sustain to God, to each other,
and to His kiugdom on the earth? We
know there are very many faithful sisters,
striving with all their might to do all that
is required of them. To all such we say,
God bless you, sisters! and give you strength
to do all your hearts desire to do in right-
eousness.

[Column 2]

	We shall be pleased to visit the different
Societies whenever it is convenient to the
Societies for us to do so. We would say to
the Presidents, Be diligent in laying before
the sisters the necessity of doing all they
can to promote the interests of Zion, by
sustaining our institutions of home-indus-
try, as well as our own literature. We are
convinced that there are hundreds of dol-
lars sent out of this country every year
for trashy literature in which there is no
profit. Sustain our own publications—the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, the only woman's
paper published in Zion, our chnrch works,
Sister E. R. Snow's poems, and the Wo-
man's Book, the Life of Brigham Young—
all these works will give the youth a know-
ledge of what the Saints had to endure
while trying to establish the gospel on the
earth. Much will be required at the hands
of the parents, for the teachings and exam-
ples they give their children.
	May peace and the blessing of God be in
the hearts and habitations of all who are
interested in the work of the Lord, is the 
prayer of
	M. ISABELLA HORNE, President,
ELMINA S. TAYLOR,
SEREPTA M. HEYWOOD,	Counselors.


REMONSTRANCE.

	So they want to take away our right of
Franchise do they, and why? will you please
tell me? A few years ago they wanted us
to have the right of franchise, crying the
women of Utah were such down-trodden
slaves to men that it was necessary to give
us the right of the ballot box to free our-
selves. Our legislature granted their de-
sires and for eight years we have exercised
our rights; what have we done that the
privilege should be taken from us? We
have not even abused our enemies in the
only paper we publish, viz., the EXPONENT,
we have never noticed in any way the
abuse and slang of our enemies, but treat-
ed it with the silent contempt it deserves;
we have been moderate in all things, re-
joicing in our emancipation, thankfully ac-
cepting the blessing as a precious right, too
precious to be trifled with, or abused. Those
who have observed will tell the women of
the world that the women of Utah have
improved rapidly since receiving that bless-
ing; so much so as to astonish any think-
ing mind. They have leaped upward tak-
ing their place side by side with man, not
in antagonism but as helpmeets. The fran-
chise here in Utah is developing powers
in women that will astonish the world, and
that soon. It will settle the vexed ques-
tion as to the superior intellect of man over
woman. Since the women have voted the
Territory has not gone backward, neither
have we forced ourselves into public notice
by abusing the men nor elbowing our way
regardless of their rights, we have endeav-
ored to act as sensible women, by voting for
those whom we felt best qualified to fill the
offices. Judging from what I have observ-
ed no man should be afraid of women hav-
ing the right of franchise, if eight years of
freedom has not begun to develop any evil
tendency I think it will be a piece of cru-
elty to deprive us of that right. In con-
tradiction of all the lies written and spoken
about us, we are among the most law-abid-
ing and virtuous women on the face of the
earth, for we truly try to live above the
law.
	We are thankful to the women of the
States for their noble efforts to stop the pas-
sage of any bill that will deprive us of our
rights; and are willing to do anything con-


sistently to help them obtain theirs. If
they should take the right of Franchise
from us, it wi[-]l be the death blow to the
women of the States ever obtaining that
right.						MARY.
	Grantsville, Dec. 31st, 1877.


R. S. .REPORTS.

		SOUTH MORGAN, NOV. 16 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a few lines would not be out of
place just to let you know what we have
been doing here, I subjoin the following:
	The sisters in this place feel desirous to
do all in their power for the furtherance of
this great and glorious work and in car-
rying out the instructions of our beloved
President in storing grain. Several have
had grain sown in the hope of getting a
good crop, but owing to grasshoppers and
frost it is not so good as it otherwise might
have been, but still by the blessing of our
Heavenly Father, we have raised in this
place fifty-six bushels which is carefully
stored in a bin in the Co-op store, placed
there by the society that it might be kept
separate and distinct from any thing else;
as to our future prospects we intend to do
all we can both in raising wheat and by do-
nations. We have a sewing meeting once
a week, and a business meeting once a
month, when the teachers give in their re-
ports; these meetings are well attended,
and each member seems desirious to do all
the good they can, in counseling and guid-
ing the young in the paths of truth and
virtue.
	That every effort that is being made for
the good of this work may be crowned with
success is the prayer of your sister in the
gospel,				S. A. RAWLE, Sec'y.

		ST. JOHN, MALAD VALLEY,
					Dec. 27th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A meeting was called on the 24th of
November, for the purpose of organizing a
Relief Society; Bishop Dunford and Pre-
siding Elder Lewis and other Elders were
present. The following officers were cho-
sen.
	Mary Ann Kent, President.
	Mary James,			} Counselors.
	Elizabeth Williams,	}
	Ann Dishan, Treasurer.
	Two Secretaries and six teachers have
also been chosen. Bishop Dunford gave us
some excellent counsel and spoke of the
evil of tale-bearing, and bade us be faith-
ful and true to all our callings. Elder Lewis
and Counselor Rees have since met with us,
and given us some excellent counsel with
regard to her duties.
	We are a small branch, but by exertion
and faithfulness we shall, we trust, increase
in numbers and good works. We intend to
read your paper in our meetings; I receive
mine from the Malad Branch, but hope soon
to subscribe for more and receive them
here.
	May God bless you and every faithful
saint.
					MARY ANN KENT.


BLOOMING.—A little daughter had watch-
ed with interest the unfolding of flowers
in a garden, seeing a rose-blossom change
from a bud to a full-blown rose in a short
time. One day she saw a turkey-rooster
suddenly expand his tail into a fan, in the
act of strutting, when she ran to her moth-
er and exclaimed: "Oh, mother, I have
just seen a turkey bloom out."


124		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms; One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JAN. 15, 1878.


[Column 1]

[Column 1]

A HIGHER EDUCATION.

	The cultivation of the human mind to its
fullest extent is one of the subjects upon which
very much is being said and written. Colleges
and institutions of learning are being estab-
lished on all sorts of improved plans and meth-
ods, designed to produce the best results.
Young ladies and gentlemen graduate with a
complete knowledge of various sciences and
languages, to say nothing of superior accom-
plishments, and are launched into society to
fill the higher places and positions among the
"elite" of the land. This is an improvement
certainly, upon the time when ordinarily peo-
ple were only taught the simple rudiments of
their own language, without any knowledge of
the history of countries or their geographical
boundaries; but after all, is there not in many
instances a neglect of that cultivation of the
heart which gives to its possessor a generosity
and kindliness of feeling, and draws out the
Godlike affections that make us feel for one
another's woe, and overlook in each other de-
fects of nature and of character. Are men and
women not apt to be too much engrossed with
one idea and lose sight of others of equal, or
more importance? Some eminent persons dis-
tinguished for their learning and ability have
become so enraptured with the beauty of
knowledge that they become totally oblivious
to the duties and obligations of social life.
	Diogones, the great scholar of his day, the
great philosopher, not only ignored all the laws
of living properly, but despised them. Men
called him a cynic, he was certainly an ex-
tremist; but there is assuredly danger of the
mind's exclusive cultivation of neglecting
the superior attractions of the heart and the
affections which help to make up the sum of
human happiness for the cultivation—the in-
tellect, which however noble it may be when
properly balanced, will be of comparatively
little value when weighed against the heart
and affections which are the very highest
source of happiness next to the comforts of re-
ligion. It is true that in many instances the
mind is cultivated at the expense of the heart.
The little child is sent away to school, to learn
grammar, arithmetic etc., and too often it is
the case that the fond, proud mother in encour-
aging him to excel in all that will qualify him
for position forgets to enjoin upon him the cul-
tivation of the heart.
	The mothers have this part of the education
of the young mostly in their own hands; and
if they would have their sons grow up with
that affection in their natures, which partakes
of the elements of tenderness and charity, of
peace and good-will towards all mankind, then
they must cultivate these sentiments in those
under their influence. The Savior in all His
teachings and instructions sought to instill the

[Column 2]

principle of love for the human family.  The
Golden Rule is a good illustration of the neces-
sary cultivation of love, "To do unto others
even as ye would they should do unto you."
If this injuction is carried out in the lives of 
individuals then is it not essential to cultivate
those peculiar gifts and graces which make
men and women susceptible of all the finer
feelings, qualified or designated as the noblest
attributes of humanity; and though one may
possess all knowledge the world can bestow,
and however practical he or she may be, yet
lacking the higher and holier attributes of 
character, such an one can never participate
in that full and complete enjoyment which
has its source and fountain within the human
heart.  Is the charity of which St. Paul
speaks, the giving of alms?  No! Does he not 
say "And though I bestow all my goods to feed
the poor, and though I give my body to be
burned, and have not charity it profiteth me
nothing.
	There is a loving, tender influence which is
more understood than expressed, yet is percep-
tible in gentleness of manner, harmony of
voice, and a mild and soothing demeanor,
which seems inherent and natural in some per-
sons, and is most charming in a companion, or
associate.  It would be better conveyed to the 
mind of the reader by the word womanliness but
is sometimes imparted to sons as well as daugh-
ters, and although the word effeminancy in
men is almost offensive yet gentleness and
deference are highly commendable.  These at-
tributes can only exist in reality with true no-
bility of character, though they are sometimes
feigned.  Men in this age are too much afraid
of being classed as womanly and assume an
arrogance that ill becomes them, lest they
should fail in dignity or superiority.  Many
men seem to fear being demonstrative, and
thus they stifle those finer feelings and affec-
tions that give such a charm to home-life, to
the daily intercourse of those who dwell un-
der one roof, who surround one fireside.  What
a p[-]culiar fascination there is in the exchange
of tender and gentle expressions, when they
flow from the heart; when one feels it is not
only the lips that speak but the heart that
prompts.  Solomon said "with all thy getting
get understanding;" and when the time comes
if it ever does, that men and women arrive at
a better understanding of how to promote each
other's happiness, how to dwell together in
love, then peace will reign, where now dis-
cord and confusion predominate.  When men
and women have learned the art of cultivating
the affections, the divinest attributes, then will
they have arrived at one method of a higher
education.
	E. B. WELLS.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	ON SUNDAY a fire broke out in the second
story of the building occupied by Mr. Camer-
on, called the New York Store, on the west
side of Main Street. The roof and upper
rooms of that and the adjoining store were
badly burned.

	"THE AMATEUR" published in Ogden by the
Y. M. M. I. A., has entered upon the third
month, and pursuant to their plan for improve-
ment it has now another editor, Austin C.
Brown. This little volume contains some good
articles from the pen of its members and indi-
cates the progress which is steadily being
made by those who are associated together in
these organizations for improvement.

	MISS MAYTIE Van will take pupils in lace-
work. She understands making several pat-
terns of the Smyrna lace and will teach six

[Column 2]
patterns to pupils finding their own materials
for $5,00. The number of lessons will depend
upon the aptitude and ingenuity of the learn-
er. This is a very useful branch of home in-
dustry and ladies desirous of making their own
laces would do well to take advantage of this
opportunity for learning. Residence on 4th
South Street between East and West Temple
Streets.

	THE DESERET University is at the present
time in a prosperous condition. This academy
of science which has been many years estab-
lished, has at the present 137 pupils enrolled.
Dr. John R. Park is President, and Professors
Toronto and Kingsbury his assistants. All the
higher English branches are taught at this in-
stitution, also Latin and Greek. Young peo-
ple wishing to become teachers should avail
themselves of the opportunity of studying un-
der Prof. Park, the Theory and Practice of
Teaching, as his ideas and suggestions on the
subject are the result of long years of experi-
ence as a practical educator.

		11th WARD, S. L. CITY Jan. 3rd, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We forward for publication, the following re-
port of a meeting held in the 11th Ward
school house, of the Relief Society which
opened with the usual exercises of singing and
prayer. The minutes of the previous meeting
read and accepted. The yearly report read as
follows: Donations received $273,90, Disburse-
ments, 261,42, Wheat on hand, twenty-five
bushels, Flour, seven hundred lbs., Money, $13,
15.
			MRS. M. MCRAE, President,
			M. BIDGOOD, Secretary,
	[Minutes of this meeting will appear in our
next issue.]

	WE HAVE received a copy of the book recent-
ly published in this city containing the names
of all persons indebted to the Perpetual Em-
igration Fund from 1850, the time of its com-
mencement, up to the close of emigration for
1877. There are over 19,000 names published
in the pamphlet of which we speak, and the
indebtedness amoun[-]s to over a million of dol-
lars. The Latter day Saints know upon what
basis this P. E. Fund stands, and that every
person who is brought here by that Fund is ex-
pected to pay as soon as they conveniently can,
in order that others who are anxious to come
may have the privilege of being gathered out
from Babylon. People are too apt to neglect
their duties in these matters, and to postpone
from time to time and finally forget their ob-
ligations. The publication of this book will be
a gentle reminder to many, no doubt, who will
now settle immediately, or as soon as their cir-
cumstances will permit them to do so.

					S. L. CITY, Jan., 1858.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Perhaps it is interesting for you to know how
the Young Ladies Retrenchment Association
of the 17th Ward is progressing. At the re-
quest of Sup't. M. E. Kimball a Special Meet-
ing convened at the residence of Mrs. Julia
Howe, on the evening of the 9th inst., where a
few, mostly officers, met. Sister M. E. Kim-
ball then stated the object of the meeting; a
committee was then formed to present the
thirty yards of carpet which they had made
for the benefit of the Temple of this City, and
all present felt grateful for the privilege of con-
tributing that much for so good a cause. Sis-
ter Kimball and Sister Howe made some con-
gratulatory remarks upon what we had accom-
plished, and gave some wise counsel for our fu-
ture conduct, after which they bid adieu to the
Juvenile Retrenchment Society—expecting


[Column 1]
one organized on a larger and improved plan
to take its place.  A pair of beautiful vases
were then presented to Assistant Superintend-
ent Howe, at whose house we have convened
so often for more than two years.  Dismissed
in the usual manner.
	EMMA F. BROWN, Pres't.
	EDITH SMITH, Sec'y.
	The Annual Meeting of the Young Ladies'
Society of the Tenth Ward was held on Thurs-
day Jan. 12, in the Ward Meeting House.  A
goodly number of ladies were present.  The
house was very beautifully and artistically
decorated with festoons and bouquets of ever-
greens and artificial flowers, made by the
young girls of the Wad, which gave a most
pleasing appearance to the hall.  Mrs. M. J.
Pierce presided.  Mrs. Zina D. Young, Mrs.
M. I. Horne, Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. E. How-
ard, Mrs. E. A. Whitney, and Mrs. E. B. Wells,
each addressed the meeting.  The subjects were
duties of women, the necessity of being self-
sustaining, home-manufactures, home litera-
ture, and the promotion of all things which
are a help to the Latter-day work.  These sub-
jects and the minuti[-]e which make up the sum
of the whole matter, were spoken upon by the
sisters earnestly, and in the spirit of the Gos-
pel.  The sisters who visit from time to time,
the various wards and settlements in the inter-
est of the Relief Society and Mutual Improve-
ment Associations, well deserve the appellation
of home missionaries for they are exerting a
powerful influence for good in the midst of
Zion.
	THE TWENTY-THIRD session of the Territor-
ial Legislature Assembly convened in the City
Hall, Nov. Jan. 14, at 2 o'clock and were duly
organized in both Houses.  President of Coun
cil, Hon. Lorenzo Snow:  House of Representa
tives, Hon. Orson Pratt, Speaker.  Secretary
L. P. Luckey administered the customary oath
to members and officers.  Chaplain for the
House Elder Helaman Pratt.  Two young la-
dies are employed as clerks in the House, Miss
Joan M. Campbell and Miss Dora Pratt.  All
the counties of Utah are represented except
Tooele, which has no representatives as yet.  A
Committee of both Houses waited upon the
Governor of Utah to inform His Excellency
the Assembly was organized.  This Committee
reported, the Governor would communicate
with the House, Tuesday at 2 o'clock.  Some
special business relating to suitable materials
for use of the members during the session,
newspaper, stamps, etc., also public printing
mail matter, etc. was transacted; minute
were read and after these and other prelimi-
nary arrangements, the Assembly adjourned
until Tuesday, 1 o'clock p. m.
	DESERET SILK ASSOCIATION.—The Deseret
Silk Association met in the Fireman's Hall,
Jan. 11th, Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young said she was very well satisfied
with what had been done.
	Father Graves said he had met with good
success in his travels. The meetings he held
were well attended. Prospects for the future
were encouraging.
	Mr. A. C. Pyper said we had more skill than
we had leaves to feed the worms.  He urged
the people to plant out mulberry trees; also
showed the necessity of co-operating, in order
to make the work lighter and enable learners
to get a better knowledge of how to manipulate
the worm to better advantage.  He advised
those planting out trees to put them as near
as possible to the cocoonery and avoid a great
amount of extra labor.  The ladies in the
Twelfth Ward were going to plant out two

[Column 2]
thousand trees behind the school-house next
season.
	There being no business, a motion was made
to adjourn for one week, then to effect a per-
manent organization, to which meeting all in-
terested in silk raising are cordially invited,
more especially in Salt Lake County.
	R. SIMPSON, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
				DISCOURSE
					BY
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG
				DELIVERED
		In the Tabernacle, Ogden.

				[CONTINUED.]

	Now I want to guide and direct to our bene-
fit. I want these my sisters to take into con-
sideration what we can do with regard to sus-
taining ourselves. Say you, "Let us go to work
and lay the foundation of it." In a great many
places there is a foundation of it laid out,
which is very good. Now, I want you to go to
work and say, we will make all our head dress-
es, we will make all the hats the men need to
wear; we have plenty straw and materials, we
will do this. "Now you have an object, Broth-
er Brigham." Yes, I have, more than one ob-
ject; and the great object is to show our Heav-
enly Father that we have come out from Baby-
lon, and are capable of taking care of our-
selves. When we come to finances, I want the
people to be rich instead of poor. The course
we are now taking is beggaring the people—
running into debt for this folly and that folly,
and for everything that they can see. Why,
let the merchant come and bring the follies of
Babylon, we want them immediately. "Why,
yes, we can make all the straw hats, if you
will take them." I will tell you what else I
want, I want the sisters to say to themselves,
and then to their daughters, sisters and friends,
"We will wear that which we will make, or
we will wear nothing; we will make what we
wear on our heads; we will make our own hats
and bonnets." Now men, will you patronize
this? "Yes." Then get our husbands to say,
"we will not buy one of the hats from these
stores, if they bring them by the car l[-]ad."
Well, there will be a great deal saved to this
Stake of Zion; probably more than twenty
thousand dollars. Then say to your husbands,
"now go and build a tannery, that the hides
that come off our beef cattle can be made into
leather." And then, say to your husbands, "I
want you to understand that I am perfectly, ab-
solutely opposed to your course of life, unless
you make some leather." Then, sisters go to
work and make up this leather, the labor is in
the shade, and a great deal of this work can be
done by machinery; but it can be done by
hand. We have one sister in Salt Lake City,
who started twenty-three years ago boot and
shoe making; she has made herself a little for-
tnne; she has plenty to live on; she has worked
with her own hands until she has accumula-
ted property enough to sustain her. My young
sisters instead of sitting continually at the
piano and getting the consumption, take hold
and build up Zion. The first thing is to do
something for yourselves, and learn to labor;
and when one thing is done, take up another
item, and con[-]inue until we manufacture
everything that we need here.
	I will say to those who are raising sheep,
do not send your wool away. "Why, it will
be said, "a fool and his money are soon part-
ed." Save your wool and send it to the factory.
If we want a little cotton cloth, we can raise it
in the southern country; and we can raise

[Column 2]
some here, as well as in some other places. We
can raise about two gatherings. In the best of
the States they will gather from three to four.
We can raise our cotton in the south, and save
our wool here. Go to and save your wheat.
Tell the people of this Stake of Zion not to sell
their grain. "We are in debt," says one.
What brought you in debt? "Oh, I wanted a
thresher and a mowing machine." Where do
you live? How much grass have you to cut?
"One hundred and fifty acres." How many
mowing machines have you got? "Only eight."
Buy another and another machine, and cloth
from the stores that is nothing in the world
but shoddy, with but enough of wool to hold it
together—buy these, and buy more than you
can pay for. Go into debt and pauperize the
whole community, instead of building up Zion.
I want you to stop. When we are in a posi-
tion to build up ourselves, we are building up
Zion. Let us sustain ourselves.


TO THE PUBLIC.

	CANCER: I feel it my duty for the sake of
humanity, to say to all who may be troubled
with this dreadful disease, that my wife was
severely afficted with cancer under the right
arm, extending towards the brea[-]t and down
the side. I was recommended by several par-
ties who knew of the successful treatment of
cancer by Phineas H. Young. I accordingly
submitted the case to him, and after forty-
seven successive days of his treatment she is
quite free from all cancerous affections.
	I am confident that no case of this kind was
ever treated with more skill, or came to a
more favorable issue than this.
		JOHN SEARS.
	11th Ward, Salt Lake City.
	Witnesses: Bishop A. McRae, Mark Barnes,
Charles Edwards.


R. S. REPORT.

	ST. GEORGE, UTAH, Nov. 28th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Since the organization of our Second
Ward Young Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association, we have regularly held our
meetings. Latterly, persuant to our Bish-
op’s suggestion we have also held joint
meetings with the Young Men’s Mutual
improvement Association of the Second
St. George Ward.  At these joint meetings
we have addresses and lectures deliverd
by our seniors.  We have now determined
upon the publication of a Monthly Maga-
zine in manuscript to contain original es-
says and articles from the Young Men’s and
Young Ladies’ Associations.  Prior to the
establishment of the joint meetings we had
published and successfully carried on a
Monthly Magazine in our Association, the
contributions being solely from the pens
of the sisters who were members; now,
however, we expect to see an enlargement
of, and a greater variety of articles in the
joint Magizine, the first number of which
is to be read at the joint meeting next Tues-
day, the 14th of December.  We in unison
with the daughters of Zion, take sincere
pleasure in reading the EXPONENT and
gratefully acknowledge the benefit we de-
rive from reading its pages.  May success
attend its efforts to advance the cause of
righteousness, is the desire of your sister,
		LILLIE BLEAK, Ass't Secrtary.


A HOME THRUST.—Doctor: "Now, tell
me, colonel, how do you feel when you've
killed a man?"  Colonel: "Oh, very well,
thank you, doctor; how do you?"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE OLD AND NEW YEAR.

	Sitting alone, on this  last night of
the old year, my cogitations are somewhat
peculiar; my mind reverts back to many
events of the past year, and also in my past
life, from my earliest recollections to the
present time.  It is a familiar saying, that
coming events cast their shadows before;"
and to my mind it is no less true that past
events cast their shadows behind; for cer-
tainly if we do a mean action, it looms up
before us from the dim, misty past with
great prominence, casting a shadow of gloom
over our feelings, and putting a damper
upon us, at times when it would seem we
should feel most cheerful and light-hearted.
	Having been taught from childhood to
look upon the advent of a new year as the
turning over of a new leaf in the book of
life, in which I should profit by my past
experience, and strive to improve, my re-
flections are, consequently, of a somewhat
serious nature.
	Though we all have our peculiarities, and
are, constituted differently in many respects,
and all differ more or less from each other
in experience: still I believe that our med-
itations in their general outlines, at certain
times resemble each other, to a greater or
less extent, though they may vary greatly
in the little minutiae and details.  We
glance back over the past year and try to
sum up our lives and conduct, and find out
how our accounts stand, and, if the balance
is in our favor, we feel a degree of satisfac-
tion which money cannot buy; but, if the
contrary is the case, we are apt to feel that
our time is misspent, and some, whose dis-
positions are not the most hopeful, feel to
despond; this we should not do, but re-
member- it is never too late to improve;
thus we should take courage, aud feel a de-
termination to more than make up for our
past deficiencies before the next time of
settlement.  Our maxim should be "never
fail" in anything which we undertake that
is right and consistent.  The grand secret
of the success of many people is perseve-
rance; a strong, decisive, indomitable will
can accomplish much, especially if the per-
son possessing these qualities will allow
herself to be directed by the Spirit of God.
We learn by the teachings which we re-
ceive, that there is "a book of remem-
brance" kept, in which is recorded our ac-
tions, both good and bad, while we sojourn
here in the flesh, and out of this book shall
we be judged; and this should be an incen-
tive to us to do right, though it is certainly
not the only one, for the path of duty and
rectitude leads to happiness; and, more-
over, we cannot enjoy true happiness unless
we do live lives of honor and virtue.
	Life is but short at best, and filled up
with care and sorrow, pain and sickness, for
the most part, interspersed with here and
there a streak of brightness, a ray of sun-
shine, with a beacon of light in the far,
dim distance.  What is this beacon of 
light?  It is the hope of a glorious future;
something which we can scarcly under-
stand, or form any true conception of, but
which serves to encourage us on in the
journey of life.  And what are these bright
spots in our existence, which shine forth
with such glorious brillancy, illuminating
the darkness surrounding it, as would a
streak of lightning on a dark night?  They
are the kind words and actions given and
received, and it is said in the Scriptures,
"It is more blessed to give than to receive,"
and it certainly has a blessing attending it,
which, when once in possession of we could
not be induced to part with.  A kind word
cheers the lonely heart, and gives us cour-
age to bear up under the most trying cir-
cumstances, and lives in the memory for-
ever.  Then is it not best for us to do what
little good we can while life lasts, that we
may at least have the satisfaction of know-
ing that we have not entirely wasted our
time and the talents with which God has
endowed us.  Are there any of us but has
an ambition to be able to feel assured that
when we shall be called to leave this stage
of action, be the time long  or short, we shall
be missed by some one, that there shall be
some one in the wide world who can speak
a good word for us?
	If we have anything against another,
now is the time to have it righted, and 
start with a clean sheet, so that when we
shall stand, as it were on the eve of another
year, as we do to night, we may be able to
look back with still greater satisfaction than
we can at the present time, that there may
fall to our lot more of joy, and less of sor-
row, and that we may at last be greeted
with that welcome plaudit, "Well done
thou good and faithful one, enter into rest,"
is my desire.				KATE.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	OXFORD, Jan. 7th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Like the widow mentioned in the New
Testament, I wish to cast in my mite with
my sisters. Although living away out here
in an almost isolated place, so far North
that our beloved sisters did not reach us
when on their recent Northern visit, yet
we are trying to blend our works with those
who labor for the cause of Zion. We have
on hand sixty bushels of wheat, and some
means to procure more, but there seems to
be no surplus grain here, as the wheat
turned out so light last fall. The sisters
are liberal in their labors and donations,
etc.; we labor under quite a disadvantage,
as many are living out on their farms. On
the first Thursday in this month at our
monthly meeting, the article in the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT, No 14, of the report of
the First Annual Grain Meeting, held in
the Council House, S. L. City, Nov, 17, was
read and listened to with much interest.
The instructions there given by our beloved
Sister Eliza R. Snow and others, especially
the brethren, enlivens our energies in the
wonderful work in which we are engaged.
Surely, as an ancient prophet once said, it
is "a marvellous work and a wonder." A
few days since we had a visit from a rela-
tive who resides in Oregon, formerly from
Canada. He soon began to ask questions,
and said to me, "I suppose you are Mor-
mons?"
	Answer—"Yes, we are what is termed
Mormons."
	Question—"Do you believe Mormonism
as it used to be taught in the beginning?"
	Answer—"Certainly we do."
	Questiou—"Well why is it that so many
apostatize from the Mormon faith?"
	Answer—"Because the Gospel is like the
net cast into the sea—it gathers the bad
and the good." I then referred him to the
parable of the sower of the seed.
	Question—Well, do the Mormons work
miracles?"
	Answer—"The Almighty Father works
miracles with this people; miracles are
wrought by the power of His Priesthood
only."
	"If," said he, "I should ever see a mira-
cle wrought, I could never turn from it and
apostatize." I then said, "First trace the
history of this church from the beginning
to the present time—its travels, persecu-
tions, being robbed and driven, and as


exiles cast among the wild savages of the
Rocky Mountains, &c., is it not all a mira-
cle that you find us as we are to-day (hav-
ing been brought out of so much distress,
as is spoken of in the hundred and seventh
Psalm)?" "Yes, that is very true," was
the reply.
	After reading and talking with Brother
Boice three days und three nights, he asked
for some church books, which we gave him,
and said he should go home, dispose of his
property, and bring his family out in the
spring. He went away rejoicing that he
had been so happily disappointed.
	I often think how thankful I ought to be
that I have life and blessings with the Lat-
ter-day Saints. When we realize this it
elevates our spirit, and enables us to sur-
mount our trials. It is then that I can say
to myself. "Do what is right, let the conse-
quence follow; God will protect you do
what is right."
	As ever, your sister in the cause of Zion,
						M. A. BOICE.


ADDRESS OF THE CITIZENS' SUF-
	FRAGE ASSOCIATION, PHILADEL-
	PHIA, PRESENTED TO MRS. RUTH-
	ERFORD B. HAYES.

	To Mrs. Hayes—Respected Madam : The
members of the Citizen's Suf[-]rage Associa-
tion of Philadelphia desire to express the
pleasure they have in seeing your name
coupled with that of the revered President's
in the introduction of social and other re-
forms tending to moral improvement and
elevation. They believe no warmer heart
or more earnest and active mind can be
found among the male advisers of your re-
spected husband than your own; and they
can conceive of no good reason why this
spiritual and moral worth should not be
publicly recognized and utilized for the na-
tion's good.
	To those honored with a nation's trust
great responsibilities and duties attach, and
great opportunities as well, for advancing
human rights and correcting human wrongs.
In this light they respectfully ask your fav-
vorable attention to the subject of the right
of women to a voice in the laws which gov-
ern them and their property, and to which
they are held amenable, to the end that
your word and influence, though unofficial,
may prove, as frequently happens, that the
"power behind the throne is greater than
the throne itself."
	Women are the only citizens wholly un-
represented in this government, the only
class not guilty of crime that is taxed with-
out representation, tried without a jury of
their peers, governed without their consent;
and yet even the opponents of woman suf-
frage must allow that in this class are many
of the most intelligent, virtuous and law-
abiding citizens, possessing all the requisite
qualifications of voters. This state of
things, you will admit, is a total denial of
the principles upon which this govern-
ment is based, and which, if not remedied,
must inevitably lead to its overthrow. It
cannot be supposed that "men" in the Dec-
laration of Independence stands for one
sex only and not for human beings, or that
the "governed," whose consent is the only
source of just power, means that half who
assume the position of governors.
	This contradiction between practice and
principle cannot be explained away, and,
far from being expedient, it is an unquali-
fied evil, perverting and demoralizing to
both men and women, and forms an insup-
erable obstacle to vital improvement in the
character or social condition of the country.
The claim of custom is on the unjust side


[Column 1]
﻿while reason, humanity and justice are on
the other.  There ought to be valid reasons
why that which is most prized by one class
of human beings as the ground of their
peculiar civilization equality of rights,
should be denied to another class that stand
in precisely the same relation to the gov-
ernment, with the same interests and
needs.
	Men cannot have keener sympathies or
greater practical activity for the common
welfare than the wives, mothers and sisters
of men; and the power to enforce social re-
forms, which by common consent are as-
signed to woman’s sphere can only be found
in the ballot. Can one see it to be just or
right that a man owning a certain amount
of property should have a vote in respect
to that property, while a woman owning
the same amount, and perhaps many times
more, should have no vote? The women
of Massachusetts pay more than one-tenth
of the whole tax on property in the State,
and yet have no power to decide the use
and distribution of a single dollar of it.
The best means for self-protection and de-
fence is the ballot; and reason and con-
science would say, if but one class can have
it, it should be granted to the weaker, rath-
er than to the muscularly stronger.
	Not the noblest and most generous of
men can feel as a woman must for the mis-
ery of an ill-used wife, the anguish of a
mother deprived of her children. Woman’s
sympathies in these things must be deeper
and more intense than the best man can
feel, and the suffrage is hers by Divine
natural right to help correct this vicious in-
difference of men, and bring the power of
legislation to the rescue of the weakest and
most neglected of mankind, who are now
thrown upon brute force as their champion
when their personal rights are invaded, or
left to dishonorable submission.  Apart
from the fact that we want the feminine or
mother element recognized in the functions
of government, there is to-day pressing
upon the attention of the people a great in-
dustrial problem which deeply concerns
thousands, may, millions of working-women
of the nation.  In this now momentous
question they deem it essential that these
women should have a peaceful and poten-
tial voice.
	A social revolution is threatening the
land. Ignore in this contest, the voice of
women, generally for peace, until the hour
of desperation, and you have left in the
problem man’s ferocity alone.  Women now 
invoke your aid to place them in that posi-
tion of political and social honor wherein
their influence may be most successfully
exercised.  Especially in the department
of education, now occupying so large a
share of public attention, do they ask you
to lend your aid to give women that politi-
cal status, whereby they shall not only be-
come the teachers of children, but, still
more important, where they shall aid in di-
recting and controlling the course of edu-
cation as well.  They cannot possibly do
this while debarred from those political
rights, by the exercise of which the con-
trol of our great public school system is
now lodged with men, who, however wise
and learned in scholastic knowledge, are
deficient in a knowledge of the wants, ca-
pacities and needs of children—boys as
well as girls. England’s action in this mat-
ter is well worthy our imitation.
	The home is the safeguard of the nation,
and that force in the family which harmon-
izes, brings into subjection the coarser and
rougher passions; which warms and softens
the heart, drawing each member into for-

[Column 2]
getfulness of self and corresponding
thoughtfulness of others, is the element
most wanting in the exercise of political
functions—civil, legislative and judicial.
This force, you will allow, resides domi-
nantly in the mind and heart of woman—
leading to the activity which requires pa-
tience and perseverance, rather than
strength of muscle.  The advocates for the
equality of rights before the law neither
ask nor desire special advantages or excep-
tional legislation for women.  They only
claim that, standing in precisely the same
relation to the state that men do, the same
powers and rights should be accorded them.
It Is only rational that, in a population con-
sisting of both sexes, the united agency of
both should be more efficient than of one
sex alone.
	In all the scenes of life, circumstances
are ever arising which demand a peculiar
cognizan[--] that the sympathy and judg-
ment of sex can only supply.
	The ballot, then, being the means of self-
government, and in a direct line with na-
tural enlightenment, prosperity, justice and
goodness, they feel free, dear madam, to
ask your influence with the wives, mothers,
and sisters who are making every laudable
effort to share in this system of self-gov-
ernment by force of their own intelligence
and elevation of character.
	That this administration, so earnest to
establish justice and equality between the
North and South, may not close without
wise and rational consideration of practical
means to speedily bring about this equit-
able and highly conservative condition;
wherein a true republic can exist upon the
earth, fulfilling the grand idea struggled 
for in the ages and proclaimed by the fathers
whom we honor, is the sincere and earnest
prayer of the undersigned.
	For and in behalf of the Citizens’ Suf-
frage Association of Philadelphia, and of
our countrywomen and countrymen who
value the rights and privileges of free gov-
ernment.
	CAROLINE H. SPEAR,
	MARY BYRNES,		Committe.
	JOHN M. SPEARE,
To Mrs. Hayes, Executive Mansion, Wash-
	ington, D. C.
	Lucretia Mott,			Susanna M. Curby,
	Sarah Pugh,			Emma A. Rohdes,
	Ellen Mellon,			Lavinia J. Palmer,
	Jane E. Sobers,		Clara Blodget.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EXTRACTS.

MARY CLEMMER'S ARTICLE IN THE NEW
YORK "INDEPENDENT."

	"Woman's Day" in the Senate. The an-
nouncement in the journals was made with
dignity and without comment. In the Sen-
ate the petitions were presented without
dignity, and with a few exceptions, with
comments which reflected deep discredit
on those who uttered them. It is a disgrace
to the United States Senate which cannot
be wiped out, that it will not receive a pe-
tition coming from thousands of honorable
women in the land without laughter, ridi-
cule, and sneers. No matter what the per-
sonal opinion of a Senator may be, the hon-
est petition of any citizen, black or white,
man or woman, is entitled by that citizen
ship to his "respectful consideration." At
least, he should be gentleman enough and
have self-respect enough, if he have ever so
little for the petitioner, to present her peti-
tion with the manner and in the tone of a
gentleman. If we needed any added proof
to the already too evident fact that, as an

[Column 2]

aggregate, the Congress of the American
people does not consist of gentlemen, we
have it in their tones, words, and manners
when they present a woman's petition.
Judging by these, you must believe that
nothing on earth is quite so "funny" as that
a tax-paying citizen—often the widowed
head of a family, an intelligent, educated,
thoughtful being—should ask that she have
some voice in the laws that govern her;
that she should, at least, be free to give
that "consent of the governed" on which
even the man-framed Constitution declared
all just government rests, which is not denied
the lowest creature that crawls, if so be he
happens to crawl in the shape of a man.
A woman of great nature could afford to
pity the men, Senators of the United States,
who that day made themselves look so small.
Had she not been sure that, as a creature of
God, she was greater than they, she might
well have bowed her head in humiliation
and covered herself with sackcloth and ashes
that more than ten thousand women, her
peers, have come to sue at such a court as
that. Is the caste of sex so all-pervading, so
omnipresent, that a man cannot read even
the petition of a woman without at once
dissolving into sneering laughter and inane
ridicule?
	In autocratic Russia to-day a woman sits
regent on the imperial throne, while her
husband and her four sons, beyond the
Danube, fight the battles of their religion
and their race. The third volume of the
"Life of the Prince Consort," just issued in
London, refutes forever a favorite assertion
of men that the Queen of England is but a
puppet in the government of her vast realm.
In pouring light upon the general manage-
ment of public business in England, it
shows us in unerring outline the Queen,
from the beginning of her reign to this day,
for forty years, attending personally with
the minutest attention to the routine busi-
ness of departments, "carefully studying
and weighing every subject, small or great,
which affects in the slightest the well-being
of her people." Let the women of the
world arise and bless her, that she, a wo-
man pre-eminent in station, has for forty
years proved herself equal to her opportuni-
ty. Not only wife, mother, woman among
the best, but "every inch a queen."	*	*
	Forty Senators presented petitions, signed
by thousands of men and women, asking
for a constitutional amendment enfranchis-
ing women. A few read the petitions as
they would any other, with dignity and
without comment; but the majority seemed
intensely conscious of holding something
unutterably funny in their hands. They
appeared to consider it a huge joke. The
entire Senate presented the appearance of a
laughing school practicing side-splitting
and ear extended grins. Mr. Wadleigh
leaned back in his chair and shook with
laughter, after portraying to his next neigh-
bor, Pinkney Whyte, of Maryland, the ap-
parition of Pinkney's landlady descending
upon the polls like a wolf on the fold, to
annihilate Pinkney's election—an avenging
landlady, of terrible repute for executive
temper, who, it is declared, imprisoned
Pinkney in his own parlor, and barricaded
another descendant of a signer of the De-
claration of Independence, Hiester Clymer,
till, to save him from starvation, food was
lifted to him from the street on poles. The
heir of the Pinkneys leaned back in his
senatorial chair and quaked at this vision
of the coming woman, while Wadleigh
laughed and laughed at the mental havoc
he had created. Oglesby, erst warrior of 
Illinois, spake with such endearing gallan-
try of his "dear constituents," whom he


did all his wit could do to make ridiculous
till the whole Senate laughed, and even
Roscoe Conkling, who never condescends
to sneer at a woman in public, turned and
listened and smiled his most sardonic smile.
Then Thurman blew his loudest regulation
blast—sure portent of approaching battle—
and rose and moved that the petitions be
referred to the Committee on Public Lands,
of which Oglesby is chairman. At this propo-
sition—intended to be equally humorous and
contemptuous—the whole Senate laughed
aloud. There was one Senator, man enough
and gentleman enough to lift the petition
from this insulting proposition. It was Sena-
tor Sargent, of California, the husband of the
woman who, though a Senator's wife, is
brave enough to be the treasurer of the Wo-
man's National Suffrage Association. He
turned to Mr. Thurman and demanded for
the petition of more than ten thousand wo-
men, at least the courtesy that would be giv-
en to any other petition. Whereupon Thur-
man, with a flippancy of which I would not
have believed him capable, if I had not seen
it, blew his nose anew, and declared that he
"only wished the petition referred to the
Committee on Public Lands that the wo-
men might have two strings to their bow!"
Then the craven Senate declared "the mo-
tion," which was only an insult, carried.
Let it be recorded of the Senate of the Uni
ted States of the forty-fifth Congress, that
the one petition which it received as a pre-
posterous joke, and treated with utter con-
tempt and outrage was the petition of tens
of thousands of the mothers, daughters, and
wives of the land; that the one petition
which they received and dropped with ut-
ter indifference was the petition against in-
temperance—the petition that seeks to
lighten the heavy load of degradation, mis-
ery, and murder that lies upen the land
and most heavily upon the hearts, the lives,
the homes of women.	*	*


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SCIENTIFIC NOTES.

THE nebular hypothesis, one of the grand-
est conceptions of the human mind, has be-
gun to be questioned by eminent astrono-
mers.  Facts, which at first were thought
to be favorable to it, now seem to many to
be fatal to it.  Marked exceptions have
been found to the rule that the movement
of all of the bodies of the solar system is
in the same direction round the sun.  The
satellites of Jupiter, for instance, is retro-
grade.  Again, the satellite of Mars nearest
the planet has a much more rapid motion
than Mars itself—a fact which, on the nebu-
lar hypothesis, would be impossible.  Lastly,
the new "star" in Cygnas, months ago was
exceedingly bright, but now is very dim
and has all the appearance of a nebula; but
on this nebular hypothesis the course should
have been exactly the reverse.  It should
have developed from a nebula to a star.
However, it is too soon to weep or rejoice--
as one may be disposed--over the supposed
collapse of this theory.  It has passed
through grave dangers and apparent contra-
dictions before this, and a fuller acquaint-
ance with the phenomena which now puz-
zle or perplex astronomers may add strength
to the theory.—Graphic, Oct. 1877.


[Column 1]
		GENEALOGICAL!
LATTER-DAY SAINTS who come from the States of
	New England, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania
or Delaware, or whose ancestors were native of either
of those States, who desire to obtain their Genealogies,
could not do better than to employ B. F. Cummings, Jr.,
who proposes to go [-]ast for that purpose during the
present Winter. Parties interested should send for Cir-
cular, giving terms and full instructions.
		Addr[-]ss,
						B. F. CUMMINGS, JR.,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.


[Column 2]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

	The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

	[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

		NEW FALL STOOK.

	F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

	THE LADIES
		Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
					IN THE
		OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descriptions.
			MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

		ROWE'S
			CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
	Big Boot, Main Street.

	No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

		HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
	CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
	READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
			AT
TEASDEL'S.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
			FOR ALL KINDS OF
	Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
		CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
	Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
			MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

	Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND RESIDENCE in 12th Ward on
2d South St., between 5th and 6th East Sts.,
six blocks East of Post Office.

[Column 3]
	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

	NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
	DRY GOODS,
					IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
	Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 6 				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1878.		No. 17.


Original.
		     NIAGARA.
	     BY MARY S. GILPIN.


[This poem was written as far as the 10th stanza in Oc-
tober, 1847, after a visit of four hours; completed after
subsequent visits to Canada the last in 1869.  Now first
published with the author's name, from its having been
shown about as his, by C. F. C.- who obtained it in manu-
script under false pretense of drawing illustrations.]

They wonders are seen in the deep--O God!
On the mountain brow; where man's foot hath scarce
	trod-

In the cavern wild, and the mighty rock
Which has borne unshattered the earthquake's shock-

In the rush of winds through the forest deep-
In the avalanche slide from the Alpine steep
In Thy works of terror, and beauty- but here
O Creator!  Thy living power is near.

Majestic and awful it rushes past
With the whirlwind's roar and the tempest's blast
And the billows which fast the green islets kiss
Are hurrying along to their mighty abyss;

And the milk-white foam and the feathery spray
And  the Iris-hues of the promised bow
Are seen in the depths of the gulf below.

From shore to island I'm borne along
By the Syren-voice of the cataract's song,
And I catch the swell of the torrent's flow
As I fly through the woods in their golden glow.

Then I pass to the cliff's protecting verge,
And  list to the swell of the sounding surge,
Where from Luna's Isle with a plunge and cry
The youth and  maiden were borne to die.

Then I cross the rock and the winding stair
Where floats the spray on the bouyant air
To gaze, from the height of the islet tower,
On the Crecent-fall in its wondrous power.

Where far as backward the eye can glance
Whirl and toss the rapids in a wondrous dance
Til the chrysolite wall, and the beach of snow
Are merge iu the stillness of death below.

When the "Maid of the West" may serenely glide
Nor dread the swell of the fathomless tide
Till it rises and rushes far below
In the ebon whirlpool's eddying flow.

Where far above with majestic span
Stupendous hangs the bold, work of man-
And two mightiest nations stand side by side
By countless and closest chords allied,

There a peaceful river Niagara flows
In Ontario's bosom to seek repose.
And a thousand navies may calmly ride
What erst had 'whelm'd the in ruin wide.

Then on and onward St. Lawrence hies
Embracing in beauty her "thousand isles"
Till Ottawa's tribute waters fall
As it leaves the bold heights of old Montreal.

Where the "boatman's song" in its chorus clear
Erst charmed the young "Bard of Erins" ear
As they "pass the wood in the twilight dim"
To sing at St. Ann's their parting hymn.

Then passes the high, embattered wall
Which saw the bravest of heroes fall,
Still chanting the solemn requiem
Of the gallant Wolfe and the brave Montcalm;

Thence with deep ping width, and majestic force
The mighty river pursues her course
Till, met by Atlantic's resistless tide,
In old Ocean's bosom shall calm abide.

And thus shall Life's "cares, joys, hopes, and fears,"
The mighty current of Time's dread years,
As they wash and swell o'er the eddying pool
And on toward Eternity's waters roll-

Be but as the course of this mighty river,
And through Christian faith as it faltereth never,
Still peacefully anchor each pilgrim blest
In the depths and fulness of Heavenly rest.


[Column 1]

AFTER LONG YEARS.

LETTER VI.

	I sit in the twilight of other days,
		Watching the shadows time has thrown
	As they flit like phantoms while I gaze
		'Mid the glamour of ruins ivy-grown.

	Who is there that does not love to revel
at times in the "light of other days," e'en
though it has faded and its beauty gone?
The charm lingers still though the reality
has gone forever. Life at its brightest,
when the heart was all aglow with pleas-
ure, left its impression engraven in such
forcible characters that time cannot erase
them, and though moss and ivy envelop the
ruin, yet we sometimes tear away this cov-
ering and find the shape and form of what
we once cherished, but perhaps defaced
and broken. Then better let it remain
screened from view by the sure process of
nature's beautiful covering than to seek to
remove that which makes it appear indis-
tinct, to find it changed, and perhaps crum-
bled to atoms. Let the ivy hide the ruin
and beautify it with its tender branches
and fresh green leaves, symbolical of the
love that covers all that is unpleasant in
the beloved object.
	If the past was really as charming as we
fancy it now from the distance, the ivy
will only enhance its beauty still more, and
if there were any hideous scars or ragged
edges unfinished, then this trailing vine
which weaves itself so fantastically around,
will hide their deformity, and in gazing
backward we shall only see the fanciful
covering time ever hangs around its scen-
ery.
	We should honor old father Time for he
works miracles for us all. The way may be
over so rough, the thorns may wound our
weary feet, the thistle pierce us ere we can
pluck the flower, but urged onward by this
white-haired monarch, who bears sway
over all the race of mortals here below,
anon we turn to catch as twere the echo of
our flying footsteps and what do we behold?
The path we trod, so rough, so dreary, beau-
tiful to us by the enchantment time has
thrown over it. We forget the cares, the
toils, the hardships, and remember only
what was lovely and pleasing. And as we
turn backward, the reflectiou of all that is
good and bright in our natures sheds a halo
of light upon our past lives and creates in
us a feeling of admiration in dwelling up-
on the picture. The sun at noonday throws
shadows forward, but as the day advances
he begins to throw his rays backward and
light up in beauty the pathway over which
he traveled in the morning, and when
evening draws near, he lights the distant
hills with reflections of incomparable
beauty. Is it not thus in individual life?
We travel on fearlessly, and unconsciously
after having gained a goodly distance, we
look backward over the way which seemed
so irksome while plodding along, and as we
review it, it is altogether changed in its as-
pect. We remember now in reverting to
it, many delightful shady groves, sunny
hills covered with verdure, in contrast with
barren plains, and there were sometimes
sparkling crystal fountains, where we

[Column 2]

quenched our fevered thirst and cooled our
heated brows. We remember with infinite
pleasure, the green meadows where we
gathered the fragrant cowslip and blue-eyed
daisy. After all there were many pleas-
ant passages in the life-journey. Among
these, dearer than all else, are the associa-
tions of those we loved, which we appre-
ciated so little (it may be) while we were
brought in daily contact with them, and we
could see all their faults and deficiencies
then, but now, when we meet them no
more, we remember only their virtues and
noble qualities—all that was lovable in
them comes vividly to our recollection in
recalling the incidents of the past.
	If a helping hand has been extended to
us in some dark gloomy hour, to help us
cross some wide chasm into which it seem-
ed we must fall if left to ourselves, if in
some path beset with difficulties a friend
has unobtrusively aided in getting us safely
through—even though we scarce noticed it
then so absorbed were we with our own
troubles or difficulties, yet as we recall it in
sober reflection, we bless in our inmost
soul that friend, who stood by us in the try-
ing hour. Sorrows make us selfish, and if
there are some who love us well enough
to overlook such selfishness, and stimulate
us to rise above our grief, or trials whatever
they may be—then indeed are they angels
though embodied in humanity. Life has
many pleasures if we can only realize them,
and there is much true sympathy in men
and women if we better comprehended
each other. Think of all the kindnesses,
the benefits we have received, think of our
own selfishness and ingratitude, and per-
haps the world will not seem so bad as we
are sometimes inclined to think it. It is
wise to take life in its brightest aspects
whether in looking backward or forward,
and remember as we do after our travels, to
recount the pleasant part and draw a veil
over the disagreeable, unless it is really
necessary to dwell upon it in order that
some other inexperienced traveler may
shun danger, or avoid unpleasantness.
There is much more of sweet than bitter
in the elements of life if we acquire the
requisite knowledge of extracting and com-
pounding them so as to have them blend
with each other in proper quantities. We
shall learn by and by how to live happily,
how to dwell together in love, and peace
will reign in all the earth.
	AUNT EM.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	HON. GEORGE Q. Cannon, Delegate from
Utah to Congress, had a hearing before the
House sub-Committee on Territories, Mon-
day, Jan. 28. His speech was in opposition
to the Utah elective bill. Dr. Mary Walk-
er and Mrs. Sara J. Andrews Spencer both
protested against Congress disfranchising
polygamists. These two ladies spoke hero-
ically, and expressed their own views of
the subject—but we prefer to take the sa-
cred phase of the practice of plural mar-
riage to any other. "It is understood the
Committee will soon report THE BILL."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms Sat-
urday Jan. 18, was well attended, Mrs. M.
I. Horne presiding. The minutes read by
the young secretaries were full of good in-
struction and gave a good representation
of the condition of the junior associations.
Mrs. M. I. Horne made some remarks in re-
gard to the petitions for universal suffrage,
and the appeal to Congress to sustain us in
the rights and priviliges of citizenship
which had been granted to us by the Terri-
torial Legislature. Coun. E. R. Snow re-
marked that she had reports from all the
Relief Societies which had been sent her
when making up a report for the Centen-
nial, that would be very useful to them in
making up reports for the quarterly meet-
ing of the Relief Society; she also stated
that it had been considered proper to pur-
chase wheat to store for Zion with the funds
saved in the Woman's Store and asked the
sisters to vote upon the matter and it was
unanimously carried. She spoke of that
store having been started without any cap-
ital, and of the good results of the sisters'
labors there. Made many other happy re-
marks. Dr. Romania B. Pratt gave an en-
tertaining sketch of her college life in brief,
of her visit to the hill of Cumorah, its beauty,
and the associations which clung to it, her
own peculiar feelings on beholding it; her
visit to Niagara Falls; and her gratitude in
being blest to return home in peace and
safety. She spoke of having made arrange-
ments to teach a class in anatomy and
physiology, and referred to the medical lec-
tures every Friday afternoon in the Expo-
nent Office, and that she would be glad to
see more of the sisters come to them, they
were free to all. Mrs. Adelaide F. Smith
expressed her feelings, desires and hopes in
the Latter-day work. Mrs. E. S. Barney
earnestly exhorted the sisters to improve
the opportunity now offered them of study-
ing anatomy and physiology and spoke
briefly upon seri-culture, storing grain and
home literature. Coun. E. Howard allud-
ed to the Legislature now in session, and
thought we should sustain them by our
faith and prayers, that they might legislate
wisely for the future benefit of the people.
Mrs. Sarah B. Phelps suggested that all
those who felt like sustaining the brethren
of the Legislature by their faith and pray-
ers should say amen—Pres. Horne made
the motion and the entire congregation re
sponded with a hearty Amen.

	PARIS, BEAR LAKE VALLEY, Dec., 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Not wishing to be entirely forgotten by
our friends, I send you a communication
from this portion of our Mountain Home.
The 6th inst. a special meeting was called
for the purpose of dissolving our Society,
as Paris has been divided into two wards it
was thought best to have a society in each
ward, the meeting was well attended and a
good spirit prevailed. Great praise and
credit were given to President Julia Lind-
sey and her counselors for the able manner
in which they have conducted the Society
in the past. After the business of the meet-
ing had been attended to, President Lind-
sey in a very appropriate speech presented
the Secretary with a beautiful book entitled
"The Women of Mormondom" from the
members of the society as a token of the af-
fection and regard they cherish for her and
as a remembrance of her faithful service.
	President Wm. Budge encouraged the
sisters to persevere and continue in the
good work they are engaged in, also wish-

[Column 2]

ed the Bishops to reorganize a society in
their respective wards at the earliest conve-
nience. The sisters have been doing all
they could to carry out the counsel of our
President, and to forward the work of ref-
ormation in this place. Financially we can-
not boast of our circumstances; still we have
done all in in our power to assist the poor
and needy, visit the sick, and comfort those
who mourn. A good spirit prevails among
the sisters, and they realize that storing
grain is essential to temporal salvation, we
have fifty-four bushels of wheat on hand,
and expect, if the Lord blesses us with
crops another year, to do more. We have
donated largely to the Logan Temple, and
truly feel to rejoice that we have a Temple
in course of erection so near us. If we
have not much of this world's means, we
are rich in spirit, blest with health, kind
hearts and willing hands that are ready to
help build up the Kingdom of God.
	May God bless and prosper the Relief So-
cieties, that they may accomplish that for
which they were organized.
	ALICE M. RICH, Sec'y.

	GRANTSVILLE, Jan. 12th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Society is progressing; almost every
meeting we are admitting new members.
Home-industries, Storing of Grain, care for
the poor, and the necessity of living our
religion, are the teachings given and acted
upon.
	Wednesday, the 9th inst, the Society gave
a public dinner to the poor and widows of
this place, to which the President, M. F.
Lyman, Bishops John Rowberry and Ed-
ward Hunter, the Mayor and City Council,
and the musicians, with their wives, were
invited to partake. The dinner was excel-
lent and adundant. The tables had they
been gifted with the power of speech would
have protested against being so heavily
loaded. The guests seemed to enjoy them-
selves extremely well. Those of the poor
who were not able to attend had their din-
ner sent to them. President M. F. Lyman
offered thanks, and he prayed the Lord to
bless us, as we had blessed the poor. If
that prayer is heard and answered, we shall
have an abundance of the comforts of life,
as well as the necessaries. All the officers
of the Society waited upon the table, which
kept them busy about two hours. The sur-
plus food was divided among the poor and
needy, so that of all our abundance nothing
was wasted or lost.
	In the evening we had a real old-fash-
ioned dance, dispensing with round danc-
ing. A good spirit prevailed, and all en-
joyed themselves. The music and the Hall
were free to the use of the Society for the
entertainment.
	M. A. HUNTER, President.
	JANE EASTHAM,
	SARAH HALE,		Counselors.
	M. A. HOUSE, Secretary.

	MANTUA, BOX ELDER Co., Jan. 23, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We send you a brief report of the condi-
tion of our society to let you know how we
are getting along. We have our meetings
twice a month which are well attended and
a good spirit prevails. We number sixty-
six members and all enjoy good health as a
general thing, for which we feel thankful to
our heavenly Father, who is the Giver of
all good gifts. We receive good instruc-
tions from our dear President Margaret Kel-
ler, who spares no exertion in acting as a
mother to us, and we feel to carry out her
instructions inasmuch as the Lord will give

[Column 3]

us power to do so. We are not extrava-
gant in our dress, but dress plain, and we
wear home-make materials for everything
we can use it for. We remember the sick
and needy, I don't think there are any in
want.
	We have been trying to carry out the
counsel of our beloved President Brigham
Young, in storing grain; we have in store
one hundred and fifteen bushels of which
thirteen were gleaned by the young ladies.
We will continue to gather as much as we
can, although this is not the best place for
raising grain on account of the late and
early frosts. We have got a bin of our
Bishop P. C. Jensen for our grain. Our
Bishop is always ready to lend a helping
hand, and he takes a deep interest in our
welfare both in temporal and spiritual af-
fairs. We feel to go forward with the rest
of our sisters and keep up with the times.
	Praying that the Lord will bless each and
every one of us that we may continue faith-
ful to the end, we remain your sisters in
the Gospel,
	MARGARET KELLER, Pres't.
	KRISTEN ANDERSON, Sec'y.
	CARANMISSIER CHRISTENSEN, Ass't.


ANNUAL MEETING OF THE ELEV-
ENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY.

SYNOPSIS OF MINUTES.

	Thursday Jan. 3d, the Relief Society of
this ward held their annual meeting. The
Annual Report was read and accepted.
There was a goodly number of sisters in at-
tendance; the Bishop and his counselors
and several other brethren were present.
The President Mrs. S. MacRae made a few
opening remarks and wished them all A
Happy New Year. Mrs. Mary A. Freeze,
Pres’t. of the Young Ladies Association,
made some remarks and alluded to her be-
ing about to go East on a visit, and her de-
sire to make it a mission for good, in pro-
mulgating the principles of the Gospel.
Mrs. M. I. Horne referred to the events of
importance which had transpired during
the past year, and the condition of the
church at the prsent, the union of the peo-
ple etc. Miss E. R. Snow spoke of the
great and glorious results which Joseph the
Prophet predicted concerning Relief Socie-
ties, also referred to the establishment of
the Home Commission Store, the sustain-
ing of home manufactures and the duties
of saints, in public and private, the consis-
tency of a true Christian, the storing of
grain by women, and many other subjects.
Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the great desire
she had to be useful; of the Bill now before
Congress to deprive this people of rights
and priviliges, and made some practical re-
marks upon matters pertaining to ever-day
life. Bishop Mac Rae gave some excellent
counsel and instruction, thanked the sisters
for their assistance to him in taking care of
the poor, wished them all "A Happy New
Year."
	The question in regard to land owned by
the Relief Society of this ward was brought
before the meeting, and a vote was taken
whether it should be donated to pay a debt
which was owing on the New School House.
All the sisters who had donated to help pay
for the land were willing that it should be
appropriated in payment of the debt. The
vote was unanimous and the land placed
at the disposal of the brethren to assist in
in paying the indebtedness on the building.
The lot is estimated over $1200. Meeting
closed with prayer by Bishop MacRae.
	MRS. MACRAE, Pres't.
	MRS. BIDGOOD Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO THE SPIRIT OF TRUTH

BY MINNIE MORE.

Welcome! I hail thee monitor of truth!
Friend of my childhood, guide of my youth,
Thy chiding voice has no stranger tone,
Tis a voice of comfort when I'm sad and alone.
As a light to guide when my feet would stray,
In the paths of darkness and lose their way,
Tis the voice of mercy when the heart has bled,
And tears of penitence deep are shed.
'Tis a voice of reproof pointing the way
When in error my feet are wont to stray;
Reproof in plainnes and kindness given,
A ray of light in the path the heaven.
Then shall I shrink or stand aloof,
When I find in my follies they reproof,
No, be my guide, my pilot my stay,
And lead me on to eternal day.
Jan. 1, 1878.


TO THE ENEMIES OF WOMAN'S
	SUFFRAGE.

	Come let us reason together. Is not the 
world in confusion?  Is there a place on
the face of the earth where truth and jus-
tice hold sway–where the weak are not
driven to the wall by the strong, where cap-
ital does not try to crush labor, and in re-
turn laborers do not fiercely hate capitalists.
Is it not fast coming to the time when every
man's hand is against every man?  Is there
any real confidence in any person, or thing?
Silver has lost its value, consequently peo-
ple have lost confidence in it; gold will fol-
low.  Has not man lost confidence in wo-
man, and woman in man?  Philosophers
say there is no cause without effect, or ef-
fect without a cause.  The Lord in speaking
of woman said "man shall rule over thee,"
but he did not say forever.  He also says,
"as you sow so shall you reap, you have sown
the wind you must reap the whirlwind."
From the remotest time that we have any
authentic account of in any nationality, men
have ruled over women with an iron rule.
Let us look at the present day without go-
ing back to pry into the past, which would
reveal heart-sickening barbarities practiced
upon women as a class, giving them no law-
ful protection only such as she could coax
from her master.  We will look at the 
United States, the freest of all nations for
women; men make the laws, also execute
them.  They make the taxes and collect
and disburse them.  If a woman has prop-
erty they make her pay her taxes on it.
Men bring women to disrepute for pastime,
then crush their partners in crime down to
the lowest depths of degradation, while
they hold up thei[-] heads among the most
virtuous of the land.  Men pride them-
selves on their powers of fascination to de-
stroy virtue, unblushingly.  A short time
since we read an account of a prominent
New York Politician, and aspirant for one
of the most important foreign missions,
leading astray the wife of a friend of his.
When he got tired of her he tried to put
her in a Lunatic Asylum, and so powerful
was his influence that she could get no re-
dress in the Courts of Justice.  She is now
dependent on charity, while he is living in 
his mansion on Fifth Avenue, admired and 
respected by his SET.  Men hold up their 
hands in horror at a drunken woman, but a
drunken man is a good fellow.  A woman
smoking is disgusting, but it is one of the 
fashionable pastimes for men.  Men shew
women every evil in themselves, yet de-
mand the strictest virtue and uprightness
in a woman  They require the widest lib-
erty for themselves, yet bind women with
chains that they would not bear one single
hour.  Men accuse women of unsexing
themselves, laugh at them because they


see they have all power over them, when
they ask for equal rights.  Gentlemen don't
you think that your injustice to woman
may have had some influence in bringing
about the state of things that is so compli-
cated as to defy the wisest of minds to
bring order out of chaos?  Don't you know
that a narrow education in woman means
a narrow mind in her offspring?  Don't
you know you rob yourselves when you rob
woman?  In your narrow policy you are
afraid that woman may  be your equal.
Why not?  Are you afraid she will treat
you to a dose of your own physic?
MARY
Grantsville, Jan. 12th, 1878.


THE FIRST WOMAN'S RIGHTS MEET-
ING ON RECORD.

[WOMAN'S JOURNAL]

 The Bible is so often quoted to uphold ar-
guments against Woman's Rights, that at-
tention should be called to Numbers, 27th
Chapter, 1-8th verse.  We there find an ac-
count of the first occasion on which women
came before the public to demand property-
rights which the laws did not give them.
 We read that "Zelophehad, the son of
Hepher, had no sons, but daughters." "Then
came the daughters of Zelophehad, the son
of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of
Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the fami-
lies of Manasseh, the son of Joseph; and
these are the names of the daughters; Mah-
lah, Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and
Tirzah.
 "And they stood before Moses and before
Eleazar the priest, and before the princes
and all the congregation, by the door of the
tabernacle of the congregation, saying,
'Our father died in the wilderness, and he
was not in the company of them that gath-
ered themselves together against the Lord
in the company of Korah: but died in his
own sin, and left no sons.
"'Why should the name of our father be
done away from among his family, because
he hath no son?  Give us therefore a pos-
session among the brethren of our father.'
 "And Moses brought their case before
the Lord.
 "And the Lord spake unto Moses saying,
'The daughters of Zelophehad speak right;
thou shalt surely give them a possession of
an inheritance among their brethren, and
thou shalt cause the inheritance of their
father to pass unto them.  And thou shalt
speak unto the children of Israel, saying,
If a man die and have no son, then ye shall
cause his inheritance to pass unto his
daughter.'"
 Notice first the second verse; what imagi-
nable occasion could be one of more public-
ity?  "Before Moses," the great law-giver
and leader of the people, "and Eleazar the
priest, and before the princes and all the
congregation;" in the presence of Church
and State, of the highest legal, religious
and civil authority, in the sight of that im-
mense audience of all the people, and at the
very door of the tabernacle itself!  Strange,
is it not, that Moses did not severely cen-
sure them for this unwomanly trusting of
themselves before the public, reminding
them that they were over-stepping the lim-
its of their sphere, that women did not un-
derstand business affairs, and that it was
audacity itself to attempt to improve the
great code of the Mosaic law which was of
divine origin!
	Now Moses probably had an opinion of
his own; but we shall never know what it
was, for, although he was the head of the
nation, standing between the people and
God, even he did not seem to feel at liberty
to lay, down the law to these women.  He
did not improve this excellent opportunity
for haranguing the people and exhibiting
his great sagacity and familiarity with the
ancient Egyptian writers.  He did not even
say what was really true, that it was not
the majority of women that requested this
change, but only one family.
 We are simply told that "Moses brought
their case before the Lord."
	Now who, of all the worthy patriarchs of
that time, would have thought of amend-
ing the law so that women should have
some property-rights?  Who, even of the
women would have done so, unless they
chanced to be situated as these sisters?  It
was true then, as it is now, that such
amendments must come through the efforts
of the parties most interested, if they are
to come at all, and if these are unwilling to
take the trouble, or incur possible odium.
by presenting their petitions, let them not
murmur at unjust legislation.
 We have our Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Mil-
cah and Tirzah to-day; but we call them
Mary A. Livermore, Lucy Stone, Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony and Julia
Ward Howe.  Upon their memories will
rest the benedictions of generations of wo-
men yet to be, who will owe better laws,
higher development, and broader sphere to
the untiring labors of these modern "daugh-
ters of Zelophehad."
FRANCES LOCKE.
Providence, R. I.


CORRESPONDENCE.

PAYSON, Jan. 8, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT.

	Sister Wignall wishes to know if any in-
struction could be given through the EXPO-
NENT for giving silk a gloss. Such items
are beneficial to the sisters. The editorial
in your columns on that NEW YEAR, I think
is splendid;also Mrs. Hannah T. King’s poe-
try entitled the “Vale,” true it is that each
year brings its bitters and sweets. Many
in this place have had to mourn the loss of
fathers, mothers, husbands, wives and child-
ren. We know the separation is severe, es-
pecially to the carnal world, but it is not for
us to murmur at Providence, the separa-
tion is only for a time. I feel sorry for those
that take no comfort in reading, they lack
the food for their souls. Sister Snow’s
Hymns, poetry, and writings, what solid
comfort I have received from them, I feel
to say all the time God bless her, every
word she speaks of writes seems to me like
inspiration. Her second volume of poems
just published is beautiful. My husband
bought her likeness for me last summer
knowing that it would be prized by me. I
love to see the noble works of my sisters
and hope some day to be worthy of being
closer associated with them. When I was
at President Young's funeral, I looked at
the grand assembly and thought what a 
meeting! What will it be at the resurrec-
tion? It seems to me that it would be
grand beyond description.
	I wish you and all the readers of the EX-
PONENT A Happy New Year, and many of
them, and I pray God to bless and prosper
you in your labors.
	With love, your sister,
	M. A. HARDY.


132		THE WOMEN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
l.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 1, 1878.


[Column 1]
WHAT WE WOMEN DO WITH OUR
TIME.

	Economy of time is one of the most essen-
tial requisites to give peace and contentment
to woman. There are very few people that
understand how to dispose of their work so as
to have some opportunities for culture. On
every hand we hear the remark made, "I've
no time to read, no time to improve my mind.
I'm tired of work, work, sick to death of drudg-
ery; woman's work is monotonous."
	Every woman, and more especially every
mother, should have some time to devote to
individual improvement, and that, too, with-
out its interfering with her duties and obliga-
tions to her husband or children. Occasion-
ally we see women who will surmount hosts
of obstacles in order to pursue some special
branch of literature or art, but these are excep-
tional cases only. Women really seem to have
less time and more to do now than ever. There
must be a cause for this hurry and bustle, for
certainly things are not done so much better
than formerly, and many things are now done
by machinery that were erst done at home.
Too many mothers make themselves complete
slaves to their families, both in the matter of
dress and food. It is said when things have
gone on so far that they can go no farther, or
be no worse, then there is a turning point, and
in this one particular it seems they have
reached the fartherest extreme. Instead of
the mother in many households being waited
upon by her sons and daughters, she waits
upon them, devoting her time, strength and
energies exclusively to gratifying their tastes
and appetites, and calling it duty. She can
never find a minute to cultivate her mind.
Children can be taught to do many things for
themselves, if proper care is taken in training
them; and it makes them much more self-
reliant through life. O how the grandmothers
of fifty years ago would stare if they saw the
darning, hemming and stitching of the girls
now-a-days. Not so long ago as that, little
girls were taught to stitch, and gather, and all
that sort of thing, by a thread, but now ma-
chines do all this, with a little care and atten-
tention, and a great deal more even, and yet
there is no more leisure time, and not even as
much. Society has too many claims on wo-
men, and fashion brings them into complete
bondage Not alone flounces, ruffies, and the
paraphernalia of woman's wardrobe, but the
time taken up in complying with all the forms
and ceremonies of Madame Grundy's set, who
compose at the present day the elite of each
respective city, town, or village. This tyrant
queen, sovereign, empress, or MYTH, should be
dethroned immediately, if we would have ra-
tional mothers for the next generation. The
excitement of what is termed fashionable life

[Column 2]
amounts almost to insanity, and no woman
who leads a life of dissipation and folly can be
a true and consistent mother. And on the
other hand, the mother who makes herself
only a drudge, or a subordinate, in her own
household, will never develop her highest and
noblest powers for promoting true happiness.
It is not necessary to go to New York Chicago,
or any other large city for this class of wo-
men, for every town has its SET, who ape the
extreme of fashionable city life.  P[-]imitive as
this city may be in many respects, and far re-
moved from the deteriorating influences that
abound in larger towns, yet here there are
many of these fashionable customs (more pro-
perly termed evils) beginning to find votaries.
	These are some of the reasons why women
have not time to cultivate their minds. If
women were determined to inform themselves
upon the general topics of the day, the condi-
tion of nations, of governments, and the vari-
ous discoveries and inventions which are con-
stantly being made, it would be a sort of relief
from washing dishes and tending baby, and
would be of a much more elevating character
than to read sensational stories that give them
false ideas of human nature, and vitiate the
taste for a higher class of readlng
	It is true that household life is monotonous,
but it can easily be relieved of its sameness by
a little scheming and planning. Make up your
mind you will pass one hour at least every day
in the open air; it will be an antidote for head-
ache in many instances. Leave off stitching,
leave off cooking, take baby with you if neces-
sary, but go out at all events, it will benefit
you physically and invigorate and refresh you
mentally. If every woman would decide that
one hour every day should be passed in the
sunshine, (don't wait till evening, when all the
work is done and you are too tired to stir) and
one hour to her own personal culture in read-
ing, music, or whatever pursuit is most to her
taste, it would tend greatly to the promotion
of home-happiness. Cheerful faces and pleas-
ant conversation enliven the hours passed with-
in doors.  Wear your dresses plainer; dispense
with extra trimming on the children's clothes;
economize your time so as to be companionable
to those with whom you are associated; influ-
ence your friends to adopt the same or similar
methods of appropriating a portion of time to
healthy exercise and mental culture. We have
heard it remarked that women who do their
own housework have sufficient exercise; but
running up and down stairs, making beds, and
walking the floor with sick babies, are not as
beneficial as a pleasant walk in the open sun-
shine. Women who are classed by the major-
ity as model-mothers, are those who seldom go
beyond their own threshold, devoting them-
selves exclusively to household affairs, denying
themselves all self-culture, and in many in-
stances neglecting their health and spiritual
development. Every woman who values her
own soul should set her face as a flint against
dissipation, or excess of whatever name or na-
ture—the consequences are discontent, unrest
in the present, and ruinous to her posterity.


[Column 1]	
HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE LEGISLATIVE Assembly have, judging
by the minutes of their proceedings, a great
deal of business before the House this term; no
doubt they will dispose of most of the ques-
tions now pending judiciously. We have only
noticed one bill in relation to the privileges of
women, and that was among the unfinished
business of last session, which came up in its
order on Monday, Jan. 21, and on motion of
Councilor Burton was referred to the Commit-

[Column 2]
tee on Elections. Said bill is "a bill to confer
on women the right to hold certain offices in
this Territory, to which women are ineligible
now." We shall see now what can be done in
a Territory where women have the franchise,
to give them opportunity to become co-labor-
ers with men in some of these public matters.
The time has at last arrived when woman is
beginning to be recognized as a responsible
being, and one who has some special interest
in the laws which govern her sex in common
with man.

	THE PETITION for Universal Suffrage, which
has been in circulation recently through various
parts of this Territory, has been forwarded to
Washington with over 13,000 signature.
The object of these petitions in the various
States and Territories, is to obtain for women
the same right to the ballot as that enjoyed by
men. At the present time, men of every class
and color are entitled to vote and elect men to
office, to make and revise such laws as they
deem proper, while educated, intelligent wo-
men, eminently wise, have only such influ-
ence in the land as they can secure through
man. And men in all ages have been swayed
more by the charms of person in the opposite
sex than by any real greatness of character, or
nobility of principle. This is the true record
of men, which history plainly verifies. The
Congress of the United States is no exception
to this general rule. Knowing these facts, and
that women are oppressed with heavy burdens
of intemperance and many other evils which
disgrace the annals of the nation, is it so very
wonderful that woman should appeal for equal
rights? Are not women free-born as well as
men? and why should they be governed with-
out consent, or taxed without representation?	

	We have just finished the perusal of "House-
hold Education," by Harriet Martineau. The
book is really what the name signifies, and full
of practical hints, suggestions and instruction
in the ways and means of developing good ten-
dencies and suppressing evil ones, and culti-
vating at home in early years those attributes
which make men and women useful in life and
a blessing to mankind. It is an excellent work
for young mothers; many young women err in
judgment for want of a guide, and have not
counselors who are wise to instruct them. This
little volume will tell them many things that
will help them in training and caring for the
little ones' bodies and minds. We as a people
believe in seeking knowledge from good books,
and after carefully reading "Household Educa-
tion," we pronounce it one of the best books of
its kind. Home education is what gives socie-
ty its tone, and taking this fact into considera-
tion, one cannot but feel that this sort of edu-
cation is being fearfully neglected by the world
at large. "Household Education" is a suitable
size for handling, and may be read at intervals
while getting baby to sleep without inconve-
nience. It contains 366 pages, divided into 26
chapters; each treating upon a particular sub-
ject, but all bearing upon the special one, the
education at home. Price, $1.25; for sale at
James Dwyer's Book Store, Main Street.

	DESERET SILK Association met per adjourn-
ment Friday evening, January 11th, at the
Council House; Mrs. Zina D. Young presid-
ing. Elder Wilford Woodruff made the open-
ing prayer, and also made some remarks upon
the sericulture and the mission having been
given to the sisters, and commended them for
their untiring labors and the good results that
had accrued. The President of the Associa-
tion, Mrs. Z. D. Young, made some statements
of the present condition of the sericulture, and
future schemes for its promotion. Elder J. E.


[Column 1]
Taylor made some remarks relative to the busi-
ness before the Association, and related some
incidents illustrative of the present condition
of the Silk Association. Sisters M. I. Horne,
E. R. Snow and E. S. Barney each made some
remarks. Superintendent A. C. Pyper gave
his experience from the very first of President
Young's requiring the brethren to take hold of
the sericulture. Elder Paul A. Schettler re-
ferred to the quality of silk raised in Utah, and
the opinion of those acquainted with the qual-
ity of silk in France, Italy, and in Syria, where
he had exhibited; specimens; said they all
agreed that the Utah Silk was of the very fin-
est nature. The climate was one of the best
for the cultivation of silk, Elder Charles
Stayner, Elder Hurlburt, and Elder Graves
each made some appropriate remarks. Elder
A. M. Musser also made some suggestions in
regard to future proceedings in the work of
silk cultivation. A committee was formed by
unanimous vote to meet and decide upon some
special matters relative to the work.
	The special Committee previously appointed
met at the EXPONENT Office Monday evening,
Jan. 14; Elder A. M. Musser opened the meet-
ing with prayer. Some business matters were
discussed, ideas and opinions expressed, re-
marks made upon the necessity of capital to
purchase machinery, and the measures that
must necessarily be taken to obtain it; and a
committee of three were authorized to wait
upon President Taylor for counsel in the mat-
ter.
	The next meeting per appointment convened
in the Council House, Friday evening, Jan
25, Vice-President M. I. Horne presiding, as
the President of the Association was indisposed
and could not be present. Mrs. E. Howard was
appointed Secretary pro tem., as the Secretary
was absent. The minutes of the previous
meeting were read and accepted. Mrs. Horne
stated that the Committee had waited upon
President Taylor and the brethren of the
Twelve according to appointment, but Pres.
Taylor was unable to see them on account of
sickness in his family, and therefore the Associa-
tion would not be able to do the business they
had anticipated at this meeting. Mrs. Horne
remarked that the silk culture really ought to
receive more attention in the future, and she
felt such plans should be devised as would
awaken a wider interest in its successful estab-
lishment. Miss E. R. Snow remarked that al-
though the Committee had not had an interview
with Pres. Taylor as had been expected, she had
held some conversation with him unofficially,
and he had expressed himself that the silk
culture was too much in its incipiency to war-
rant a permanent organization upon business
principles as a commercial enterprise, and the
present organization would answer in applying
for an appropriation. Br. Lorenzo Snow, of
Brigham City, would be willing to take charge
of the machinery. Pres. Taylor coincided
with the views which had been expressed by
some of the officers of the Association. Some
necessary business was transacted, and a com-
mittee of three was appointed to draft a peti-
tion to the Legislature asking for an appropri-
ation to purchase machinery and promote the
raising of cocoons. Mrs. E. B. Wells made
some remarks, and snggested the idea of mak-
ing presidents of Relief Societies local vice-
presidents, in connection with the parent As-
sociation, to further the interest of the people
in silk culture. Elder Musser gave his ideas
upon the subject. Elder Graves recommended
county organizations in connection with the
parent society. A motion was made by the
Vice President. Mrs. M. I. Horne, that all that
Presidents of Relief Societies and Young La-

[Column 2]
dies Mutual Improvement Associations
throughout the Territory act as local vice-presi-
dents to promote sericulture; and it was de-
cided by a unanimous vote of the meeting.
Br. Wm. Smith, of Farmington, expressed his
desire to see scriculture more extensively en-
gaged in as a blessing to the poor and employ-
ment for those who must have available labor
here at home in Zion; said he knew many in
the vicinity of Farmington intended planting
out trees this coming spring. Elder Musser
made some suggestions in regard to mulberry
trees, as it was now near the time for planting
them out, Mrs. Horne said a great deal of in-
struction had been given to the sisters in their
general meeting in the 14th Ward (which con-
vened semi-monthly), on the subject of put-
ting out mulberry cuttings, raising silk worms,
and all the primary work relating to sericul-
ture, and that the intention was to continue to
impress upon the sisters the importance of this
special branch of home industry. The name
of Elder Anson Gall as Vice-President of the
Deseret Silk Association was dropped, as he
had never taken any active part, and it was in-
convenient for him to attend the meetings as
he lived some distance. Miss E. R. Snow was
nominated to act as first Vice-President in
place of Elder Anson Call, and she was elected
to said office by unanimous vote. The meet-
ing was adjourned subject to the call of the
President of the Association.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
DISCOURSE
BY 
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG
DELIVERED
In the Tabernacle, Ogden.
[CONTINUED.]

	Well, I may say there are a hundred and one
things we have to talk about; and as the sisters
will give no reports, we will tell them what
they should do. Now, recollect what I have
said to you. Go to, from one thing to another
to make for ourselves what we need. Stop this
buying, so that we can have something on
hand.
	Another item. I will say to the Presidency
of this Stake of Zion, if you could take one-
fourth the time of the men who are idle here
and put it on the Temple, and take the other
three fourths and go to the Railroad Compa-
nies and say, "Gentlemen, we will turn you
out a hundred hands who will work for one
dollar a day, we would have the railroads in
our hands, and have every dollar that they
spend for five hundred miles. We might bring
every dollar in here, and live within fifty
cents on the dollar and save the other fifty
cents. How long would it take the men to go
down to the bed rock, where we were brought
up? I can see women who when they were
twenty years old six yards of calico was all
they asked for a gown, and that was good
enough to wear to meeting, or to a party; good
enough anywhere. If my mother and her
grandmother got one silk dress, an[-] they lived
to a hundred years old, it was all that they
wanted. I think my grandmother's silk dress
came down to her children. She put her silk
dress on when I went to see her. It was, I
think, her wedding dress; and she had been
married some seventy years.
	Some of the ladies wear a silk dress and say,
"husband, I w[-]nt another silk dress, I have
had this four years." Learn to be prudent. It
is no skill to get money, but it is a skill to
know how to preserve it and make it increase,
and bring to you an abundance to build up
Zion, and purchase what we want.

[Column 2]
	I wish to say a few words to my sisters in re-
gard to raising silk. I would like to talk just
enough to have you do something in this di-
rection. This is a matter that I have talked
upon for a great many years. Soon after I first
came to the valley, I sat on a load of hay in
Salt Lake City, and said, "this atmosphere is
full of silk and all good things; and we will
prove it to be one of the best places for raising
silk." We have proven that we can raise it.
There are sisters here who can reel it and make
it into cloth. There is a sister before me with
a silk dress on; she raised the silk, and made
it herself; and I warrant it will wear four
times as long as any you can buy in the stores.
(By invitation the sister arose that the congre-
gation might see the dress) I want to en-
courage you in this industry. If you want a
little change, you can very easily get it by
raising silk. Silk that we raise here, when it
is reeled, is worth from $8 to $14 a pound. It
is always a cash article, and finds a ready mar-
ket. There is no day in the week, or month in
the year, but what you can find a market for
silk, and get the money for it. I wish the sis-
ters would think of this. A few pounds of silk
gives you a little money. It is easily raised.
Where there is a little care taken you can pre-
serve the eggs so that you can raise two crops
of cocoons in a year. There is no trouble to
preserve them in our ice-houses, until the first
are disposed of, and so you can keep the crops
growing along. You can raise more money
than the farmers, and beat them in the produc-
tion of wealth. Take a woman with her chil-
dren, and they will make twice the amount of
money by raising silk that the man can make
with the farm. If you will try it you will say
it is true.
			[To be continued.]


R. S. REPORT.

	BEAR RIVER CITY, Dec. 28th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
This is the financial report of the Ladies' Re-
lief and Young Ladies Mutual-Improvement
Societies for the year 1877:
Received							$44. 40
Disbursed to the poor				17. 25
In the Treasury					27. 15
Logan Temple						25. 00
	We have 155 bushels of wheat stored. We
have also a $275 share in the Co-op Store. The
elder and younger sisters here are trying to
unite themselves and carry out the counsels of
our late beloved President Young in regard to
storing grain, for we fully comprehend the im-
portance of this mission. The two Societies
are in a prosperous condition; we have been
reorganized lately by our Bishop, W. Neely,
and the following are the names of officers for
Relief Society; Christine Albertsen, President
Karen Christiansen and Trine Abrahams[-]n,
Counselors; Mary Hansen, Secretary; Karen
Christiansen, Treasurer. We have good, active
teachers.
	The officers of the Young Ladies Association
are: Anna Hansen, President; Christine Neeley
and Mary Hansen, Counselors; Mary Ipsen
and Julia Hansen, Secretaries; Mary Chris-
tiansen, Treasurer. We have very good meet-
ings, and the Lord blesses us abundantly in
our meeting together, and we all feel more and
more the important mission we have to per-
form as mothers and daughters in Zion.
	Wishing success for the EXPONENT and all
good enterprises, we remain your sisters in the
Gospel,
	MISS MARY HANSEN, Sec'y R. S.
	MRS. MARY IPSEN, Sec'y Y. L. M. I. A.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SERMON TO THE YOUNG.

		BY REV. W. F. HATFIELD.

	In the Eighteenth street Methodist Epis-
copal Church, New York, Rev. W. F. Hat-
field, the pastor, delivered the third of a
course of sermons to young men, on essen-
tials to success in life. The speaker began
by saying that there are few questions of
greater importance to a young man than
"How may I succeed in life? what is neces-
sary for me to do? what course shall I
adopt?" These questions have been asked
by every young man, and success in life
depends to a great extent upon the manner
these are answered and carried out. There
must first be an aim in life to warrant suc-
cess. Some have ridiculed the idea of
having an aim or laying out a definite plan.
They tell us that there is a providence that
guides the affairs of men and it will matter
little what plans are laid so long as there is
a divinity that shapes our ends. But are
we to suppose that Providence is going to
do everything for man; that this will build
houses, carve statues, paint and fashion,
and make money and gain knowledge, and
that man has nothing to do but receive
whatever God chooses to bestow? Those
who have been successful have found that
while God has given them faculties for ac-
quiring knowledge they had to do their
part in educating these faculties, and in
having some definite object in view for
which to labor. Columbus, Wilberforce and
Washington each had an aim, and they fol-
lowed it until they gained the object for
which they so long and persistently strug-
gled. Temptations that lead to evil must
be strongly resisted. One young man sees
another of his own age who is
	LIVING WITHOUT WORK.
He has soft hands, wears kid gloves, flour-
ishes a cane, smokes cigars, rides in the
park, dresses expensively, and has an easy
time, and he feels that he ought to have an
easy time too. No man ever became wise,
useful or great who was an idler. But you
say, "I would work, but there is no work to
be found; nobody wants to hire, times are
so hard." If the thousands of men who
are out of employment in this city—many
of them lounging about the parks—would
go into the country they could find work
there. There are fine farms in New Hamp-
shire turned into pasture land because there
are none to work them. The young men
have gone into cities to earn a pittance
there rather than live like princes on the
sod. Resist a temptation to accumulate
money by dishonorable means. Never in
the history of this country has there been
such a mania for making money fast, as
during the past ten or fifteen years, and in
the hot haste to roll up wealth little heed
has been given to the methods employed.
And even now there are too many who
think that the great end of life is to make
a fortune, and it matters little what means
are used that are not openly unlawful that
will secure the coveted boon. Another ele-
ment of success in life is to rely on one's
self. One reason why so many young men
never succeed is because they are too dis-
trustful of themselves. They are like a
man learning to swim who has used a life
preserver so long that he dare not venture
into deep water without it. If he would
become a good swimmer he must strike out
where the water is bold, relying on his own
strong arms, and so if a man would be suc-
cessful he must cut loose from all artificial
helps and rely on his own abilities.
	The most important requisite of all is the

[Column 2]
formation of a character according to the
teachings of the Bible. No man can hope
to succeed who discards the teachings of
the Bible. They are the foundation of our
laws, and of the laws and jurisprudence of
the best governed countries on the globe.
It is here we learn that if we would be
really great we must be really good, and
that our highest happiness in time and eter-
nity only can be secured by having our
characters molded by those principles that
are the foundation of the Christian faith.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
			PIPSEY PAPERS.

	The net was cast into the sea, and it
gathered of all kinds. If there were not
bad as well as good among us this would
not be the net spoken of by the Savior; but
judging by appearances we are in the right
net.
	I called upon some friends a short time
ago, and found them very much annoyed
by the neighbors where they resided: feel-
ing as though they were rude, dishonest
and disobliging: in fact, anything but what
Saints should be. No doubt this was all
true, but what can we expect if the net
gathers of all kinds? Should we not look
for variety? Are there not spirits brought
in which not even the gentle influence of
Christian life can refine, and as like begets
like, can we expect grapes of thistles, or
figs of thorns?
	This is an age of progession, and yet how
hard it sometimes seems to progress in the
right direction. The Gospel of Christ em-
braces all purity, virtue, goodness and re-
finement; but some of us have been forced
to pass through so many trying scenes, so
many hardships, that only the roughness of
our natures could survive the conflict. God
says His saints shall be as gold refined in a
furnace. I sometimes think we are passing
through that purifying ordeal, when I see
the trials and afflictions this people are
called upon to encounter, the aggravating
circumstances we are sometimes placed in,
and the hardships we have to endure.
	Mr. Tullidge in his last work has called
the Mormon women Spartans; but they
were not born Spartans; they did not in-
herit hardship as their right, nor constitu-
tions to battle with it. Those who have
passed through the most hardships, were
born and bred among the delicacies and re-
finements of civilization, and inherited the
tastes and dispositions pertaining to their
early life and training. I have sometimes
thought it was small cause for wonder, if
they should become rude and selfish; in
fact, the wonder is that the better part of
their natures was not altogether lost, the
tenderness and sweetness burned out by
the cruel, seething fires through which
they have been called to pass.
	But there was heroism in the tenacity
with which they clung to their faith, al-
though some faltered and turned away, and
some fell by the wayside, as many a lone
grave will testify all the way from Kirt-
land to Missouri, from Missouri to Nauvoo,
from Nauvoo to Salt Lake. Grand trage-
dies like great wounds are sometimes borne
because the suddenness of the shock leaves
no way of escape. Like great wounds, too,
comes the time of healing, the lingering
agony, the slow convalescence, and many a
ghastly scar is left which no soothing cor-
dial or fantastic covering can smooth or wipe
away. The author of the "Women of Mor-
mondom" has sought to make a record for
the daughters of Zion. In historical items,

[Column 2]
so far as it goes, it is no doubt quite cor-
rect, but how little is told, how lfttle can
be told. Tongue could never speak nor pen
record a full account of their wrongs, their
sufferings and privations, the cares and dis-
appointments, the slow torture of hope de-
ferred, the wintry blasts, the scorching suns,
the weariness, the sadness, and the heart-
sickness, through which these Mormon
women pioneers passed.
	As little foxes spoil the vines, so the
small vexations and daily cares wear out
the strength and break down the courage.
He eulogizes them highly, and his eulo-
giums are well deserved; for if not born
Spartans, they certainly showed Spartan
heroism in their firmness and devotion to
the cause they had espoused. They felt
within their hearts the conviction that they
were obeying the commands of God, and
that He would overrule everything for the
best good of those who loved him and kept
His commandments.
	The editor of an eastern paper suggests
that "A Mormon Romance"—a tale show-
ing up Mormon wretchedness would be just
the thing. I think I could tell many a tale
of suffering, hardship and privation, but no
doubt it would not meet their approbation.
Something of a different nature from any-
thing I should portray would better suit the
public taste. They would invade our sanct-
uaries, open our closets, and drag forth the
ghastly skeletons for the pity or derision of
the world; or, finding no skeletons worthy
the exercise of their genius, they would
call imagination to their aid, and conjure
up some phantom of fright to intimidate
the weak, or amuse the ignorant.
	Writing on this subject reminds me of a
little incident that occurred during our
early pioneer life, which, perhaps, would
not be out of place in these columns. In
the winter of 1850-51 Salt Lake City was laid
out and fenced in wards, but the cross roads
were not yet fenced. Across the street
from where we lived was a vacant lot, on
which some one was preparing to build;
they had dug a well about sixteen feet deep,
which was about half filled with water.
During the winter the snow had fallen quite
deep, covering the ground and carefully
smoothing over all landmarks. Some days
after the snow fell, the wind raised and
blew very hard; it raged and howled dis-
mally, making us thankful for the bit of
shelter we possessed, and glad to draw
around the fire. Towards night, neighbor
Beech, who lived a little North-West of us,
came in to tell of an adventure he had had.
He said he kept hearing some sound, which
seemed different from the shrieking of the
wind, but so faint that he could not tell the
nature of it. After listening a while he
determined to investigate the matter. He
accordingly put on his great coat, and start-
ed out, following the direction of the sounds
until he reached the lonely well, where he
found a neighbor women, who, while cross-
ing the block without a path, had walked
into it. Her arms and clothing supported
by the snow, held her head above the water,
where, far below the surface, she had be-
come nearly exhausted with the cold and
her frantic efforts to make herself heard.
He procured assistance and released her
from the very unromantic situation, giving
her in the care of her friends. It caused
some merriment for the young folks, but
was no joking matter for poor Nancy, and
I will venture to say that she was careful
the next time she went out to follow the
proper road. How many of us in this life,
in leaving the right path and the advice of
friends, meet with unseen dangers. There
is many a pitfall for the unwary, and youth


and inexperience are often ensnared where
the way seems smoothest and most plea-
sant. MARY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	
[-]


MAY THE SISTERS PRAY IN PUBLIC?

	The question usually asked is, May the
sisters speak in public? Or it is, May the
sisters be excused from speaking? We sel-
dom hear the question which we have
chosen as our title. Not that the sisters
have settled it one way or the other. We
suspect the reason it is not asked is to be
found in the fact that it excites no interest.
The right of the sisters to speak is the only
one about which there is any inquiry, sim-
ply because, if we except singing, it is the
only form of participation in our social
meetings which they have taken into con-
sideration. But why should they not pray?
Why are there not as many sisters ready to
kneel and lead the people in prayer as to
arise and address it? Among the brethren
the case is different; there are more who
pray than who speak, and the task of speak-
ing is the greater of the two. But among
the sisters there are far more of those who
speak than of those who pray. How shall
we explain this difference? The right of
the sisters to pray in public is not ques-
tioned by anybody. But we do not think
this accounts for the circumstance that it is
scarcely ever exercised. There is no hint
in the Scriptures which can be tortured into
its denial. We cannot suppose, however,
that the sisters suffer it to lie in abeyance
for such a reason. We confess that we are
puzzled. But turning from our futile ef-
forts to solve the mystery, may we not com-
mend to the attention of devout women in
all our churches, the privilege of which
they do not avail themselves? The loss of
feeling and unction in our prayer meetings,
occasioned by the diffidence, or the consci-
entious conviction whicy keeps them from
exhorting, would not be felt if they would
join with men in prayers. We would not
urge this as a duty upon any who feel that
their nature shrinks from all publicity. The
delicacy of woman is a boon so precious
that we cannot afford to wound or mar it.
But if any are not deterred by their timid-
ity, let them lift up their tender voices in
social prayer, and aid the church in this
holy exercise.
	[A little inquiry would satisfy our broth-
er, we think, that the propriety of the sis-
ters praying in public is questioned by the
same persons, and for the same reasons, that
their speaking in public is. This journal
published some articles a few years ago,
understood to be from the pen of a layman,
in which that ground was distinctly taken,
and in support thereof the writer cited 1
Tim., 2:8, sq., "I will therefore that the
men pray everywhere," etc.—ED. WATCH-
MAN.


MARIA MITCHELL AT THE BOSTON
UNIVERSITY.

	Maria Mitchell, professor of astronomy
at Vassar College, recently gave what she
called "a gossip lecture" to the young wo-
men students of Boston University College
of Liberal Arts. The gossip was of a charm-
ing character, being a lively description of
a visit in the family of the astronomer, Sir
John Herschel. Besides personal details,
it included a sketch of the mental charac-
teristics of this remarkable family of as-
tronomers, Sir William Herschell, his sis-
ter Caroline, and his son Sir John, as well
as a brief resume of their contributions to


scientific knowledge by way of discovery
and investigation. The good sense and
fine wit of the speaker found in these fresh
materials abundant opportunities for point-
ing a lesson and inviting diligence in the
acquisition of sound knowledge.
	It was a notable sight, this white-haired,
noble-browed woman, whose scientific at-
tainments have been recognized by the
learned of both hemispheres, surrounded
by a group of thirty or forty fresh, eager
girls, who are standing on the threshold,
preparing to follow similar pursuits. In
such a presence every sense and faculty is
inspired to its noblest and best develop-
ment; the believer is uplifted, the doubter
is shamed, the critic and theorist are si-
lenced. 					E. T.
	—EX.


[Column 1]
		GRAIN ITEMS.

	KANOSH, MILLARD CO, Dec. 13, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	In compliance with the notice published
in the EXPONENT, we send you the follow-
ing report of grain stored in this city.
	We have stored wheat to the amount of
one hundred and thirty-one bushels, and
have more owing to us from the Sevier
River, which we expect shortly; we have
also one hundred and sixty pounds of flour.
We have a little means in quilts with which
to purchase more when an opportunity
offers.
	We have been pleased to read the reports
of wheat; it is quite encouraging to see
how energetic the sisters have been in stor-
ing grain for Zion, and our prayer is that
the Lord will bless their labors.
	We remain your sisters in the labors of
Zion,			ADELIA A. KIMBALL.
				ADELAIDE PAXTON, Sec'y. 

		WALLSBURG, Jan. 9th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We send you a few items in regard to our
Relief Society in this place. Since writing
to you Apr. 18th, 1877, we have added to our
store of wheat twenty-six bushels and six
pounds which makes in all for the year 1877
sixty-six bushels and six pounds; and we
intend to do all we can in regard to saving
and storing grain, although wheat is scarce
here owing to the early frosts last season.
The sisters have donated very liberally ac-
cording to their means. At present we
have no place of our own to put our wheat
in, but one of our good brethren has kindly
loaned us a bin in his granary until we are
able to build one of our own. We continue
to hold our meetings twice a month which
are generally very well attended. The ma-
jority of the sisters are willing, and anx-
ious to perform all the duties required of
them.
	Hoping we may do better this coming
year than we have done in the past, and be
more punctual in reporting, we remain your
sisters in the Covenant,
				NANCY WALL, Pres't.
				SARAH GLENN, Sec'y.

		CEDAR CITY, Jan. 10th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place has been
storing grain, in accordance with the coun-
sels of our late President Brigham Young,

[Column 2]
which I consider a great enterprise and an-
other of his fatherly thoughts for the bene-
fit of the poor.
	Our beloved bishop kindly granted us a
room in the Tithing Office, for the storing
of grain, and we have sacked up there one
hundred and sixty bushels of wheat; we
have other property that we intend to turn
into grain as soon as an opportunity offers.
	I am happy to inform you that our worthy
President, Sarah Uric, and her counselors
are alive to their duties, teaching right-
eousness and exhorting the sisters to be one
in all things—in feeding the poor, in pay-
ing our offerings, in donating to build Tem-
ples, and in everything that is calculated to
save and exalt, and raise us in the scale of
intelligence.
	The New Year has come in, and the old
and the young have enjoyed themselves in
the dance; good order and peace prevailed.
The parties break up in good season, re-
membering the counsels from head quarters.
	I am proud to say that the brethren gen-
erally feel like going into co-operation and
bring out the many facilities that we have
around us to make us self-sustaining and
independent of Babylon.
	The young ladies of the Retrenchment
Society feel the necessity of improving
their minds and laying aside the follies of
Babylon, which is advisable to mothers as
well as daughters.
	God grant that we may be just, and our
walk and conversation of that nature that
will claim respect from the righteous.
						A. E. W., Sec'y.


IS IT NOBLE OR WEAK?

	The following is an extract from a letter
of a young lady to her lover, in regard to a 
friend (her room-mate at Vassar), who is to
marry a missionary destined for Persia.  It
is a strong, terse, graphic statement of a
case whose like not unfrequently occurs.
If every young lady who is engaged would
thus speak frankly, the wrongs which her
future husband either consciously or uncon-
ciously infilcts upon her would be less
grievous.
	"You men ought to be very happy, very
good, very tender of your wives.  It is a
continual mystery, how uncomplainingly,
cheerfully, even gladly, a woman will give
up all she has loved, sought, known, or
hoped for, and will set about tasks the most
hated, for the sake of the man she loves.
	This is one of the most striking examples
I ever personally knew.  Here is a woman,
whose wealth, education and talent would
fit her to fill almost any position open to
woman, and who, more than any woman I
ever saw, hates the petty details of the or-
dinary woman's life, and yet who is anx-
iously pining for the time when she can cut
and make her own dresses and perhaps cook
her own food in northwestern Persia.  All
this, on account of a man who, I will war-
rant, has not half her talent, but who will
swallow her up probably without a pang of
conscience.
	I pray she may not, as probably ninety-
nine hundredths of such women do, stake
all and lose.  I wonder how long Mr. C—
(her lover) would entertain the thought of
abandoning his profession to turn a grind-
stone and split kindling in Central Africa,
for the sake of being with Katharine?  I
can fancy his saying that it would not be
his duty to do so.  Is it a woman's duty?
Is it noble, or is it weak?		C. F. T.
	Andover, Mass.


136		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	THE ladies of Amesbury, Mass., have given
Mr. Whittier a birthday present of a Russian
leather portfolio containing sketches in wa-
ter-colors of Amesbury scenery by an Ames-
bury artist. Many of them illustrate the
scenes with which Mr. Whittier has bright-
ened his poems.

	THE study of law is invaluable to the
practical philanthropist. The strongest thun-
derbolts ever hurled at the system of slav-
ery were forged on the anvil of law. The
most powerful weapons used against the
liquor traffic are obtained from the same ele-
mentary principles of justice and equality
					—Lavinia Goodell.

	IN Rome public education under Govern-
ment auspices is increasing. There are
now forty-six common schools for gratui-
tous instruction, and ninety-four private
schools. Before 1870 few were the child-
ren of the poor who could read or write.
Now it is a badge of reproach for a family
not to send its children to school. Several
of the monasteries have been converted in-
to hospitals. Free libraries have been es-
tablished in different quarters of the city.

	IT will be well to disabuse women in gen-
eral of their erroneous ideas concerning a
literary career. A woman must not expect
to find any play when she adopts literature
for a profession. A practical writer leads a
life of "bona fide" drudgery. She may,
now and then, find her pet poems, or finely
written stories or essays, accepted and paid
for; but if she would make an actual living
at the business she must devote herself to
it.					—Mrs. E. B. Duffey.

	MR. Longfellow said at the Whittier din-
ner: "I do not know why I cannot make
an after dinner speech as well as other peo-
ple, but I cannot. I have made several at-
tempts and I have always noticed it to pro-
duce a depressing influence." Mr. Charles
Dudley Warner quietly begun his talk thus:
"Mr. Chairman—It is impossible to express
my gratitude to you for calling on me.
There is but one pleasure in life equal to
that of being called on to make an after-
dinner speech, and that is not being called
on. It is such an enjoyment to sit through
the courses with this prospect like a ten-
pound weight on your digestive organs."


[Column 1]
NOTICE.

All who may wish to purchase silk-worm
eggs can obtain them from Mrs. Dora Robinson
of Farmington. It would be well for those
who intend to purchase to secure what quanti-
ty they may need, and if desirable they could
leave them in Mrs. Robinson's care till it was
time to make use of them. Mulberry trees of
all sizes can be obtained from President
Young's farm, just south of the city, by apply-
ing to Wm. Rossiter, at the President's Office.
The trees are from five to forty cents apiece,
according to size.

GENEALOGICAL!
LATTER-DAY SAINTS who come from the States of
	New England, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania
or Delaware, or whose ancestors were native of either
of those States, who desire to obtain their Genealogies,
could not do better than to employ B. F. Cummings, Jr.,
who proposes to go [-]ast for that purpose during the
present Winter. Parties interested should send for Cir-
cular, giving terms and full instructions.
		Addr[-]ss,
						B. F. CUMMINGS, JR.,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

[Column 2]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOOK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descriptions.
			MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
AT
TEASDEL'S.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
			MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND RESIDENCE in 12th Ward on
2d South St., between 5th and 6th East Sts.,
six blocks East of Post Office.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
DRY GOODS,
IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


M. J. Raskelley

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1878.	No. 18


[For the EXPONENT.
		HURRYING HOME.

Hurrying home in the twilight's gray hour,
As night spreads her mantle o'er cottage and tower;
Home from the toils and the cares of the day,
And they at its threshold should vanish away.

Some pass along with a quick, joyous tread,
And some from whose pathway life's pleasures hath fled,
For some there are greetings of love and delight,
And others the shadow of sorrow's deep night.

And I read in each face as they pass swiftly by,
The light, happy heart, the tear and the sigh;
Can tell where the home-lights shine out through the
	gloom;
Can tell where the hearth-stone is cold as the tomb.

Children's fair faces pass swiftly along,
Like sunbeams they glance 'mid the hurrying throng;
Children so innocent, joyous and bright,
Oh, fain would I shield you from shadows of night.

Be not too eager to reach manhood's prime,
Childhood's the fairest, the sunniest clime;
Cling to its freshness, cling to its truth,
And gather sweet fruits from the garden of youth.

Here too I see the feeble and old;
Soon they'll be gathered to Christ and the fold;
Home-light will darken for them nevermore,
But ever burn bright on the "Golden Shore."

"No home" is stamped on this pitiful face,
In all this wide world she hath no place;
Ye who have homes, oh, think of the poor;
In mercy remember, turn not from thy door.

And draw not the curtains too closely, I pray,
But out through the gloom let the cheering light stray;
It may fall on some weary and desolate heart,
Who of life's blessings hath had meager part.

"Home, home sweet home," more precious than gold,
Half of thy value can never be told.
Make your homes "Rests" 'mid the toil and the strife,
Oasis green in the journey of life.
									HOPE.
			S. E. [---]sell


[Column 1]
			[For the EXPONENT.
TWO PAIRS OF HANDS.

	What! Have hands a history? yes; and
if you will put down your work and come
and sit beside me, I will relate to you their
story. You see those hands laid with such
exquisite grace on the black velvet and
cushion? Ah, yes; how soft and delicately
molded is each curve and outline. Thefingers taper to the waxy, transparent nail,
and the pink tips are just formed to press
the ivory of the piano. The fleah is white
and satin smooth. "How beautiful!" you
are led to exclaim, "are the hands of a fair
and delicate woman." As they lie there
in their fair beauty, bend the ear of your
imagination, and hear them tell their story:
	"We were cared for with all the tender-
ness a fond mistress could bestow on that
which adds so much to her appearnce in
society. The kid has been shorn, the finest
silk has been sought for, to protect us from
the sun and wind. Our owner would never
think of placing us to do that work which
belongs to the kitchen wench. Look at us
in our beauty! What good have we ever
accomplished? To be sure we glide softly
over the piano keys, or perchance fashion
some delicate garment for our owner. We
are taught to intertwine gracefully to en-
hance the glitter of the diamonds with
which we are adorned. We attract atten-
tion to our mistress, and help her to secure
to herself that admiration and flattery
which is the life of her life and aim of her

[Column 2]
soul. Oh, stay; you ask us what good we
shall have been the means of doing our
mistress in the next world, and what use
we shall be to her in the great eternity to
come? Oh, bless our hearts! why do you
suggest such disagreeable thoughts? Well,
our mistress says she is living for this
world, and if this life, which is only a drop
in the great sea of eternity, is all that she
cares for, we shall not trouble ourselves
about anything else. And when death
comes, we shall make a very lovely sight
to the mortal eye, crossed over the heart
that knew no higher aim than an assidious
care for us. We shall repay her at least."
	Ah, my friend, you turn away with a
sickening disgust from these white, useless
hands. Well, I blame you not. Just look
now at this pair of hard, seamed, dark
hands. The fingers firmly interlocked,
showing the force of character in her whose
life has been made up of toil. We will
listen also to them, and take to our hearts
and lives the lesson they will teach.
	"We are the servants of her who never
spends a moment upon us, but to cleanse
and dry the skin. We are always em-
ployed; no moment is laid on the altar of
time unless used in some way. Besides the
usual daily housework, we fashion a useful,
comfortable bonnet for some old lady friend;
put together in dainty form a hood to frame
a sweet baby face. We strive to help our
owner to make that which we handle dainty
and delicate, and to spare no toil to make
her home happy and cheerful for her moth-
er and two precious fatherless boys, rather
than seek to preserve our beauty at the ex-
pense of others' hearts and hopes. Yet
when sickness prostrates those around our
owner we are guided with loving tender-
ness over the suffering brow, and many an
agonized lip has pronounced our touch the
most soothing mortal can know. And we
are taken to the kitchen, to prepare that
for the sick which will comfort the body
while our gentle pressure soothes the throb-
bing brow. We have accompanied our mis-
tress to many a stricken home, and are
never tired of doing good. We will con-
fess to you, in strict confidence, that some-
times she whom we serve with such dili-
gence will look at us with discontent, and
actually murmur at our plainness. Yes, it
was painful, after we had done so much to
secure eternal happiness for her, and to
hear her complain of us and wish we were
otherwise. But then we forgave the weak-
ness and still served her faithfully. The
next world? Ah, indeed, we have no fear
of that; and when we are folded above the
heart which has never known guile, we
shall await with peace our call to come forth.
And there we will be honored for our good
works on this earth, and blessed by those
to whom we have ministered in this life."
	Are not those hands lovely to you now,
my friend? They are to me, and I some-
times reverently kiss them for the noble
work they are doing.			S. Y. D.
	St. George, Jan. 28.


IT IS said that it costs $177,444 a year to
supply the American army with tobacco.
"The extravagance of women is ruining
the country!"


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. EMMA Gates Conklin is the editor
of the New York "Palladium," a monthly
publication, "devoted to Literature, Poetry,
Music, and the best interests of our coun-
try—socially, morally, and politically."
	"DO ALL women vote in the cities of
England, or only tax-payers and house-
renters?" asks a subscriber. Only unmar-
ried women and widows who pay a tax on
property or who rent a house can vote,
these being the same qualifications as are
required of male voters.
	MRS. SOPHIE B. Herrick, whose micro-
scopical studies, published in "Scribner's
Monthly" during the past year, have at-
tracted wide attention, has become perma-
nently connected with the editorial depart-
ment of that Magazine, and is now widely
recognized as standing in the first rank of
American scientific women. A touch of
her quality can be found in the review of
Joseph Cook's "Biology," recently pub-
lished in "Scribner."
	PARLIAMENT MET on Friday, Jan. 17th.
The Queen did not open the session in per-
son, but sent her speech to be read. It is
mainly about the Eastern War. She says,
"Hitherto, neither of the belligerents have
infringed the conditions on which my neu-
trality is founded, and I willingly believe
both parties are desirous to respect them,
so far as it may be in their power. So long
as these conditions are not infringed, my
attitude will continue the same. No efforts
on my part will be wanting to promote a
pacific solution of the points at issue and
the termination of the war." She solicits
the liberality of Parliament to supply means
for adequate preparation and to adopt mea-
sures of precaution, should hostilities be
unfortunately prolonged.
	In the debates on the Address in the
House of Lords, Earl Granville called Lord
Beaconsfield to account for making utter-
ances during the recess in a tone of bellig-
erent neutrality, and for differing from the
sentiments expressed by his colleagues;
said if Russia's assurances were unsatisfac-
tory, Parliament should have been called
together immediately; but if satisfactory,
summoning Parliament now was to cause a
feeling of insecurity. To which Lord Bea-
consfield replied, that when the summons to
Parliament was issued, there were pros-
pects of peace negotiations; he repudiated
what the newspapers say about the policy
of government, and emphatically what
they say about a divided cabinet; he de-
clared he had written no letter during re-
cess, and had spoken but once, and then in
the presence of his colleagues; that Lord
Derby's felicitous statement, that "the
greatest British interest is Peace," was a
rhetorical expression, but Lord Granville
seemed to take it as a statistical fact; that
the government considered that there were
British interests which must not be endan-
gered if the contest goes on. There was
another kind of isolation than that arising
from decay. England once alone asserted
her national independence. The Duke of
Argyle said that Lord Beaconsfield's speech
was brilliant and evasive.—


138		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

RESIDENCE ELDER JOHN PACK,
					Jan. 17, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Minutes of the Meeting convened to or-
ganize the young ladies of the 17th Ward
into a Mutual Improvement Association.
	Present, by invitation, to assist in organ-
izing the young sisters, Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. Hyde, President of the Relief Society,
with her counselor, Mrs. S. Reese, and other
assistants in office. Meeting conduced in
the usual manner by singing and prayer;
after which Miss E. R. Snow stated the ob-
ject of the meeting, and gave a brief ac-
count of the Juvenile Society of the ward.
Said "about four years ago, some little
girls went to the Bishop, and requested to
be organized into a Society; their request
was treated somewhat coldly, as the Bishop
did not understand what they asked of
him. However they persevered, and went
a second time. It is presumed that the
Bishop had seen Pres. Young concerning
their request, in the meantime, for he told
them that they could have the Meeting
House to hold meetings in at any time, and
blessed them.
	"I always admired that move, and to-day
bless those girls. But now it seems wis-
dom that the older sisters engage in this
organization. Many of the young sisters
have had experience in this matter, yet the
older ones should take the lead, that all
might be combined and work together. I
think the young married ladies should be-
long to this Association, and every girl as
soon as she is baptized. The organization
of these Associations is as much a revela-
tion as that of the Relief Societies; the one
came through Joseph Smith, the other
through Brigham Young, and if I was to
choose between the two organizations, I
should choose the one for the young, so many
of whom, for the want of such spiritual cul-
ture, have gone to destruction.
	"When we first came here there were no
regular schools; but as soon as we obtained
the necessaries of life, attention was turned
to educating the children mentally, but as
they were born in the Church, and heirs by
right to the kingdom, no thought was be-
stowed upon their spiritual culture.
	"The world educate their children to the
highest mental standpoint within their
reach. But we had come out of Babylon,
and thought we had left her behind; but
the spirit of the world had crept in among
our young people, and we had Infidels
among them, children of good parents; and
the question was asked, 'What will become
of our children?' and no one knew, until
the Lord spoke, and we were commanded
to organize and teach them.
	"We were met with scorn, but we had
our mission, and we have worked from then
until now. Many of the societies have
broken up, yet some have remained true to
their integrity; we knew the result must
be good, for the work was from God.
	"At first many of the girls were laughed
at for attending meetings, and scorned by
their associates; others met with more en-
couragement; the mothers became inter-
ested, when they saw the result, for now
the girls could testify that the work was
true; before they supposed it was, for their
parents said so: now they knew it for
themselves. So far the results have far
exceeded our expectations, and there are
many splendid Secretaries among the young
ladies.
	"On one occasion Pres. Young met with
us in our General Meeting, and heard the

[Column 2]
young ladies read their minutes, and he
remarked: 'Two-thirds of the men in Con-
gress could do no better than that.'
	"Pres. Young gave Elder Junius Wells
the mission to go through the Territory
and organize the young men; but the young
ladies have got the start of them, and
know better how to conduct their meetings;
but the young men are progressing and
moving steadily forward.
	"I want you young ladies to become quali-
fied that when the queens of the earth come
here, you can instruct them in the princi-
ples of the Gospel. In your meetings have
good reading—selections from good books—
and I must say many of the selections I
have heard read were as good as I could
make myself.
	"In the early days of the Church, the
young took delight in the work, and it was
no uncommon thing for the children to
speak in tongues, and have the blessings of
the Gospel poured upon them. But chil-
dren get no more than they earn, either of
the spirit of the world, or the Spirit of God.
No one can get the knowledge of God any
cheaper than Peter got it, when Christ said
'Flesh and blood did not reveal this unto
thee, but my Father who is in heaven.' I
remember in the early days some little
girls met together to hold meeting. They
sang and prayed and appointed their
speakers; but as they were sincere, the
Lord poured out His Spirit upon them and
they spoke in tongues and were so happy
that they had to tell of it.
	"Now some one must preside over this
Association, and I see before me many
young ladies who could preside with digni-
ty, if they would exercise their ability,
aided by the Spirit of God. We can use
any one who is willing to do His will. Wo-
man's duties are increasing year by year,
therefore, my sisters, prepare yourselves
for high and honorable callings. I propose
Miss Belle Clayton as President of this As-
sociation, but none of you need vote for
her, if you do not think this a wise choice."
	After some deliberation it was moved
and passed without a dissenting vote, that
Miss Belle Clayton be President, and Mrs.
Maria Dougall, Miss Ida Felt, Miss Phoebe
Tingey, and Miss Emmerette Brown were
nominated and sustained as her Counselors;
also Mrs. Josephine Smith, Secretary, and
Miss Denie Pack, Assistant Secretary of the
Association; Miss Lucy Smith, Treasurer,
and Miss Hortense Lang, Treasurer of the
"Penny Fund" for the Temple. All these
officers were elected by unanimous vote.
	Mrs. Julia Howe who had been Assistant
Superintendent of the Juvenile Society,
said she felt as if these young girls were
her own children, for they had been asso-
ciated together so long and she had learned
to love them dearly. Said they had done
well; these little girls had actually made
thirty yards of carpet, which had been do-
nated to the Temple. Said she should al-
ways be interested in their welfare, and
should miss their society.
	Twenty young sisters came forward and
their names were enrolled as members of
the Association.
	Pres. Mrs. Hyde said she was much
pleased with the proceedings to-day, and
felt that the President chosen was the right
one, and added her blessing, and prayed
that God would give his Spirit to guide the
young.
	Sisters R. M. Carrington, J. Pack, M. A.
Pratt, H. Doremus, J. Smith, Denie Pack,
Ida Felt, Phebe Tingey, Hortense Lang,
Edith Smith, Melvy Calder, Ella Dallas. E.
Groesbeck, Mary P. Young, Eliza Kettle,
S. Reese, Vinnie Clayton, and L. D. Alder

[Column 3]
each made some wise and interesting re-
marks to the young ladies, encouraging
them to move forward in their new organ-
ization.
	Sister Snow advised them to be punctual
at their meetings, and make them short
but interesting.
	Pres. Miss Clayton appointed the next,
meeting for the young ladies at her house
on Wednesday afternoon of next week at 3
o'clock.
	Pres. Mrs. Hyde adjourned the Relief
meeting until two weeks from to-day at 2
o'clock. Meeting closed with singing and
prayer.
		MRS. L. D. ALDER, Secretary.

	MANTI, SANPETE Co., Jan. 24th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is not often that we occupy any space
in your much esteemed paper, but I hope
that a short report of the doings of the
sisters of our ward will not be unaccepta- 
ble. The building of the Temple and new
meeting house in our midst, calls for our
best energies, and the sisters feel that a
certain amount of the responsibilities thus
created naturally falls upon them, and are
ready to respond freely and voluntarily to
the demands of the times. . It is, therefore,
gratifying to be able to report the flourish-
ing condition of all the enterprises we have-
undertaken. Under the guidance of our
much beloved and esteemed President,
Sister R. Wareham, we have commenced 
storing grain, and have already several
hundred bushels on hand. Our Society
Store is also doing well, having doubled
our capital from the time we started, about
eighteen months ago. This ought to speak
well for the management, and the interest
the sisters take in it. The general authori-
ties have the full confidence of the com-
munity, good feeling prevails, and a spirit 
of generous rivalry pervades all; our pre-
siding sister has determined that the gen-
tler sex shall not be behind in fulfilling the
duties and meeting the responsibilities with
which the times are pregnant. And thus
the good cause moves on, and we look for-
ward with anticipations of a glorious fu-
ture. 
	It is with extreme sorrow that we chroni-; 
cle the demise of one of our members, Sis-
ter Maria Bench, who was interred to-day.
She was an exemplary wife, good member,
and always punctual to the duties of the
hour, and her family have the sympathy
of the whole community. "Peace to her
ashes."
	Your sister in the covenant,
							W.C.


﻿IN THE city of Haverhill, Mass., several
hundred women pay taxes on $559,480.
They are going to petition the Legislature
for a right to vote in municipal elections.


NOTICE.

	All who may wish to purchase silk-worm
eggs can obtain them from Mrs. Dora Robinson
of Farmington. It would be well for those
who intend to purchase to secure what quanti-
ty they may need, and if desirable they could
leave them in Mrs. Robinson’s care till it was
time to make use of them. Mulberry trees of
all sizes can be obtained from President
Young's farm, just south of the city, by apply-
ing to Wm. Rossiter, at the President’s Office.
The trees are from five to forty cents apiece,
according to size.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
		ESTRANGED.

And hast thou shut and locked thy heart
	Against me? Nay, not so.
Whom once I loved, I ever love;
	I cannot let thee go.
Thou, who hast dwelt within my love,
	Winning thy place so well:
Ah! must we say goodbye to hearts?
	I cannot say farewell.

Thou, who alone didst watch my bed
	Of sorrow, pain and fear;
While wintry night raged dark and wild,
	And death seemed all too near.
Can I forget those dream-like days,
	When, resting in thy care,
I traced the wanderings of thy songs,
	Upon the charmed air?

E'en if some idle word let fall,
	(As leaves float on the wind)
Long wandering, to thy gentle heart
	Its way at last did find,
Ah! who would weigh it 'gainst the past,
	With all its memories dear?
Not thou, or I, who know so well,
	Life's holy mission here.

Ah! who would take the perfect rose,
	Love on its heart had worn,
And counting not it's loveliness,
	Treasure alone the thorn?
I could not sing in heaven, if there
	A loved face turned away,
Unreconciled; 'twould chill my joy,
	E'en in that perfect day.

Though life be long, and earth be wide,
	All vain to turn away;
We oft shall meet, amid that throng,
	Who walk the narrow way.
When we shall meet beside that gate,
	Thou wilt not answer no;
Thou'lt know with joy my patient faith--
	For I have loved thee so.
Jan. 1, 1878.		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


[Column 1]
			[For the EXPONENT.
A VISIT TO ORDERVILLE.

	The day dawned bright and beautiful. It
was the Sabbath. I had looked forward to
this day, desiring to visit my dear Colima's
grave. The sun had warmed the air. I
started from Glendale, with my little boy
to keep me company. In the twelve last
years, since I left there, everything had
changed, except the everlasting hills. The
road ran on the east side of the valley in-
stead of the west, and all the crossings of
the creek were different. We walked up
the dugway, through a small but fragrant
grove of cedars, and crossed a creek. Noth-
ing familiar here told of the fatal accident
that called my child so suddenly into the
land of spirits. No familiarity of scene or
associations called to my mind the bitter
memory of the past, which connected me
in thought and feeling to the place. Over
ploughed ground and grassy pastures we
continued our way, through shrubs and
willows, where cattle grazed all unconscious
of my aching heart and the terrible re-
membrances awakened by nearing the place
of death; a small stream of water was
crossed, and before me was the knoll where
my beloved child was buried. I hastened
to the grave; it was concealed by shrub-
bery growing in wild profusion, and
smoothed by the hand of time, but the
mother's memory always discerns quickly
such precious earth-spots. With tears and
prayers I consecrated the spot anew, and
after an hour spent at the sacred place on
this holy Sabbath day, we proceeded on
our way to Orderville. As we rounded the
Yellow Mountain we came in sight of Or-
derville. Then we crossed a field and
passed by the vineyard and we found our-
selves at the village.
	I had some strange impressions as I
looked at the long line of low houses built

[Column 2]
of wood, and thought what havoc the fire-
fiend could make among them.
	I stopped at the house of a friend, who
was delighted to see me, and she exclaimed
in her amazement, "If you had dropped
from the skies I should not have been more
surprised."
	After a lively chat, asking and answer-
ing questions, she went out and soon re-
turned with a warm meal ready to serve.
"See how quickly I've got dinner," she
said; "its no trouble here; all you have to
do is to go to the cook-room and it is all
ready." To my inquiries of How do you
like the United Order? the answer was
from those interrogated, "I would not live
out of it for the world." Sister Maria took
me to the dining-room at sundown to see
the children at the table. There were three
long tables filled with happy, healthy, mer-
ry children, whispering and talking low
among themselves, waiting the arrival of
Sister Harmon. She entered, pronounced
the one word "Silence," and all were still.
The blessing was asked, instructions in po-
liteness given, and Sister Harmon said:
"Children, you must not throw a crumb
of bread under the table, or waste any-
thing, you know that famine is coming."
Contentedly the little ones ate their plain,
simple food and quietly passed out.
	I met one after another of friends and
acquaintances, who expressed surprise and
pleasure, until the emotions of the day al-
most overcame me. A few hours before I
had stood by the grave of my beloved child,
now I was meeting old and tried friends,
awakening memories and incidents of trial,
fatigue, sorrow, joy, gladness, all inter-
mingled in the remembrances that crowded
upon me. I met two strangers, who, by
their kindly greeting and sisterly manner,
seemed like old friends. Many varied
scenes crowded close one upon another,
crowned by this last—the glimpse of life
in Orderville. While chatting with Myra,
another dear friend, Maria, entered, and
asked me if I would like to go in to prayers.
I assented gladly, and followed her to the
dining-room. The tables were fast filling
with men and women, old, middle-aged
and young. When all were seated a hymn
was sung, then a prayer offered, and all
partook of the same plain fare as the chil-
dren had just had served to them. So
many persons gathered from all places, with
such a variety of tastes and habits, partak-
ing of the same kind of food, discarding
tea and coffee, and abjuring the proverb
that "What is one man's meat is another's
poison." After greeting and interchanges
of the kindliest feelings, I looked round
the room, and my heart swelled within me.
I was really among those who had estab-
lished and were carrying out an Order of
union, as near perfect and complete as
seemed possible in this state of existence.
The feeling of love and union that existed
there was strongly akin to the heavenly
feeling in the St. George Temple, and I re-
alized that some day, if they keep the same
spirit, they will be among the mighty and
wealthy of the earth.
	Supper over the room was cleared and
prepared for the evening meeting, which
was well attended—preaching by Mission-
aries from Kanab. After the meeting was
over, seated around a bright cedar fire,
which sparkled and glowed, filling the
room with warmth and light, we talked of
the past, present and future.
	That night after retiring, sleep disdained
to visit me until after twelve, for busy
thoughts were my companions. Morning
came; I breakfasted with my kind hostess,
who had been ill and was not yet recovered

[Column 3]
sufficiently to go to the general table, but
got her breakfast ready cooked. Doing all
the cooking in one place is an admirable
contrivance to save woman's time, instead
of a hundred getting breakfast separately;
a few do that work, and the time of the
rest can be employed advantageously at
other work.
	After breakfast we visited the cook-room.
The baker was making mush to mix with
salt-rising bread to eke out the flour, until
the milling was done. They have warm
bread for breakfast made with hop-yeast,
and salt-rising for dinner and supper. A
large boiler full of beef was in progress of
cooking, and two boys were preparing po-
tatoes for dinner, cabbages were waiting to
be cooked, dry bread was gathered up for
soup, a little boy was picking over raisins,
and dinner was being prepared for the
many. I saw the steamer in which the po-
tatoes are cooked over large boilers, or fur-
naces; the large, bright range, with its
capacity for cooking large quantities of food
and keeping it warm; the happy counten-
ances of the people in the next room at
breakfast, and I felt that here was a begin-
ning of something new—a step in the right
direction.
	The little that I saw I liked. Of course
the Order has both enemies and friends,
and there are many outside ready to find
fault and pick flaws, but my prayer is, may
the spirit of union and peace spread abroad,
until "The Order" will be the fashion, and
out of the order the exception.
					EMILY B. SPENCER.
	St. George.


COMMENTS ON CONGRESS-MEN.

	If Mary Clemmer's article in the New
York "Independent," is a true statement
of the Senatorial behavior, on receiving
Petitions from all the States for a Sixteenth
Amendment to the Constitution in favor
of Woman's Suffrage; the great majority of
that body fell into that trap, which a just
Providence permits to be set to divulge cor-
ruption. The manner in which the peti-
tions were received by the Senate, tells the
tale of the moral condition of that body.
	Men devoid of self-respect, do not re-
spect women. Want of true self-respect
bespeaks immorality; and immorality in
men, engenders in them disrespect for wo-
men.
	The very cause of this remarkable dem-
onstration, of petitions from all the states
and territories in the Union, is certainly a
full-grown corruption in the land; and the
petitions, an anti-act, against corruption.
The sagacious and heroic representatives of
a great reform, are bravely facing the very
centre of corruption, on its own premises,
meeting its most formidable foe in its own
chambers, to fight the battle on the enemy's
ground. Then and there commenced the
real battle, compared with which the past
has only been skirmishing.
	The insulted petitioners should have sent
detectives at the heels of those eminently
rude actors of the Senate, got possession of
a few details of their behavior "behind the
scene," and exposed it to the public gaze.
That would be a firm tactic, to commence
with, in crushing a powerful foe.
	But it is perhaps fortunate as it is; it will
rouse the energy of the petitioners, who
have backing enough not to relax their ef-
forts, in so good a cause, be their opposers
who they may.
							H. M.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.			EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 15, 1878.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN’S PROGRESSION.

	The newspapers of the day among other items
of importance bring us good news of the pro-
gression of Woman's Cause. The past year has
given strength to the work by many large con-
ventions, calling together the strongest and
most powerful minds from different parts of
the country, and these women, earnest and
zealous, have presented in the most forcible
manner the ablest and most direct argu-
ments in favor of woman's elevation. The
right to equal opportutities of education is one
of the points in question, and much has been
done to give woman opportunities for cultiva-
tion in the higher branches of literature re-
cently. But many of those who do not direct
ly oppose it, (knowing woman has the best side
of the argument) sneer, and ridicule and insin-
uate, and in all sorts of indirect ways use their
influence to keep women from pursuing those
avocations that are considered the most eligible
for man.
	The better educated woman is, the more she
can accomplish for the good of all; the better
she can perform the duties of wife and mother
which we consider the highest duty except
obedience to God. One plea that many ad-
vance against woman's higher education, and
freedom, is that it will unfit her for the posi-
tion nature has assigned her as wife and moth-
er. But we sincerely believe it will only the
better qualify her. The mother who has
strong characteristics properly developed will
transmit them to her children in a marked de-
gree. This is a fact readily conceded by every
person of good judgment; then the more high-
ly educated the mothers are, the greater power
of intellect the children will inherit.
	So long has custom tyrannized over woman
to keep her in subjection, that it will only be
by small degrees women themselves can com-
prehend the advantages arising from the pro-
gress of independence of thought and action,
and a knowledge for themselves.
	The fields of usefulness now open to woman,
are widening every day. And there are some
good men—here as elsewhere, who welcome
her to the avenues which lead to a higher
range of intellectual and spiritual culture. But
men cannot walk by faith as women can, it is
not so much in their nature; they want facts
all the time, and the results of practise; and it
will take a little time to prove whether the
condition of society is materially benefitted by
woman's broader expanse of labor in the pub-
lic, as well as private interests of humanity.
Some things have been already proved; that
women are capable of mastering, as thorough-
ly and perfectly as men, the theory and prac-
tice of teaching, the science of medicine and
anatomy, and many other branches of educa-
tion and art. The one strong point that oppo-

[Column 2]
nents use is, that woman will lose her inde-
finable charm, designated womanliness, when
she can discuss knotty questions, has strong
opinions, can match herself with man in force
of character, and intellectual ability, instead
of sweetly assenting to whatever opinions he
may hold, smiling all the while he is pitilessly
crucifying all the finer feelings of her soul.
	Why is it not possible for man and woman
to love each other truly, and dwell together in
harmony, each according to the other all the
freedom of thought, feeling, and expression
they would grant to one who was not bound to
them by indissoluble ties; instead of the wife
giving all—that she may sit by his hearth, bear
his children, preside at his table, and merge
her life into his, to the extinguishing and crush-
ing out of all desires, ambitions, tastes, or capa-
bilities for anything save what he deems pro-
per, or right, his wife should engage in. Let
man also prove himself noble enough to share
with her such laurels as either may be able to
win in the battle field of life, instead of arro-
gating to himself the right to dictate to her in
all things, saying, "thus far shalt thou go and
no farther."
	We do not believe in pouring forth griev-
ances, or reiterating wrongs; these are not ar-
guments, and men will not have them; they
must be shown the happy side of the future,
not the dark annals of the past. That we
must leave—and we know there is One, Who
would not even suffer a sparrow to fall to the
ground without His notice. Jesus never turned
away from woman in scorn, or loathing; and
woman never sued to him in vain. Think of
this, you who sit in the courts of the nation,
and sneer at the mothers, wives and sisters who
entreat you to devise some methods to save
from wholesale destruction, by intemperance
and other crying evils, their sons, their bro-
thers, their loved ones, their fellow-men, or
allow THEM a voice in the laws of the land,
that will at least give them legal rights to pro-
tect themselves and their little ones.
	Of what are ye afraid? Has not woman ex-
tended to you the hand of sympathy, meted
out measure upon measure, pressed down and
running over with love and heavenly charity?
What more can she do to win your confidence
in her desire to improve the condition of all
mankind? Has she not unselfishly sought
your interest in everything which pertains to
home happiness! Will she slacken her efforts
to do you good because she has a wider field to
labor in, and greater inducements to stimulate
her exertions? No! woman's happiness can
never be complete without man's love; but
that love molded and tempered by its assimi-
lation to the exalted phase of woman—with all
her powers and attributes awakened to a su-
preme consciousness of her true mission as
man's real help meet, will give you participa-
tion in a purer sentiment, where there will be
scope for all the love implanted in the breast
of man.
	There is no doubt but that the concentrated
energies and eloquence brought to bear upon
Woman's cause in the National Congress, this
present year will be long remembered, and
even those who profess to think lightly of it,
and treated it with contempt and withering
sarcasm, will not be able to forget the sublime
enthusiasm, the dignity and grace with which
these noble women plead for the rights of
which they are unjustly deprived.
	There are some valiant workers in the cause
of woman's progression—we have them here
in our midst; women who are laboring ear-
nestly in improving and elevating the condi-
tion of society, whose efforts are untiring in
seeking to promote a higher and more exalted

[Column 3]
feeling and sentiment in the minds of the
young, than to spend their time in frivolity
and nonsense. Women who are prepared and
fortified to endure the sneers and opprobrium
of those who do not yet appreciate the cause
they have espoused; who in all humility seek
for the grace of God to aid them, in their ef-
forts to accomplish their noble purposes.
						E. B. Wells


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Municipal Election passed off more har-
moniously than appearances seemed to indi-
cate. The People's Ticket carried by a large
majority.
	The "Deseret News" of Tuesday 12 inst. con-
tains among other good items, an interesting
letter from Washington, by C. A. S., an inter-
view between Hon. George Q. Cannon, Dele-
gate from Utah, and the reporter of the Wash-
ington Post. In this encounter Br. Cannon
seems to have spoken very plainly and in lan-
guage not to be misunderstood.
	Dispatches tell us in reference to the death
of Pope Pius IX, that he was attacked with a
sort of suffocation or difficult breathing at 8
o'clock on Wednesday evening, the 8th inst.,
at 11 o'clock he was very much worse; then he
took the crucifix from under his pillow, and
blessed those around him. He afterwards
blessed the Sacred College at the request of a
Cardinal who was present. The Cardinals in
attendance relieved each other in praying by
the bedside. At 3 40, the corpse was livid.
Solemn masses and requiems for the Pope are
being held in large cities throughout the dif-
ferent countries where Roman Catholic Church-
es are established and great pomp and ceremony
are manifested on his account.
	The official report of the physicians who at-
tended the Pope, report the cause of his death
"Paralysis of the lungs." The Pope was to lie
in state three days in the hall of the con[-]i[-]tory,
after the preliminary congregation, which
took place immediately after his death. The
body will lie in the Basilics of St. Peter await-
ing the last ceremony. It is expected the cer-
emonies will continue nine days, after which
the conclave will close.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE UTAH "Musical Bouquet" No 10, Vol.
1, has been received, and we are pleased with
its contents, and gratified to know that among
other home productions, Utah has begun to de-
velop musical talent. We trust the Musical
Bouquet will find many friends and patrons in
the homes of the saints.

	THE UTAH "Musical Times No. 11, Vol. 2, is
an excellent copy. It contains notes of inter-
est on the subject of musical composition, style,
etc, as well as items regarding composers of all
countries. If these periodicals are kept and
bound in volumes they will make a valuable
addition to home literature.

	LECTURES DELIVERED under the auspices
of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement As-
sociation are awakening considerable interest
among the young men. The lecture of Elder
Moses Thatcher published in the "Deseret
News" of Feb. 9th, contains many excellent
ideas, and couched in language simple yet elo-
quent. The lecture is well worth studying as
well as casually reading. But reading a lec-
ture is not as impressive, howover carefully it
may be read as hearing it delivered by a per-
son who feels himself what he speaks, and
throws into his subject the force of his re-


marks. The voice, the manner, the presence
all serve to enhance the value of the opinions
or views expressed.
	ELDER DANIEL Graves has been traveling
and lecturing in the interests of sericulture in
the northern settlements. Elder G. informs
us that he has delivered thirteen lectures dur-
ing his tour. In most places he had very large
audiences and in all there seemed to be a re-
newal of interest on the subjeet of silk culture.
In Centreville they have a ribbon loom, and
have excellent warp, and are waiting for suita-
ble filling. Elder G. is engaged in a good
cause, and one that should be encouraged by
those who are looking to the future interests of
the community. Elder G. states that according
to the statistics on silk importation that in two
ports only, New York and San Francisco, over
$28,000,000 were expended for raw silk in the
year 1875. The subject of sericulture is now
under discussion throughout the Territory, and
there will be multitudes of trees put out this
year.
	THE TELEPHONE:—On Thursday afternoon,
through the courtesy of Elder A. M. Musser,
we had the privilege of witnessing the trial of
that recent invention, for transmitting sound,
the Telephone. It is seemingly of very simple
construction. The connection was from the
office of President Taylor to that of Bishop
Hunter, nearly a block, and the sounds were
heard perfectly when all was quiet. The mus-
ic performing at either end of the line could
be clearly heard at the opposite end, different
voices and different instruments being dis-
tinguishable. The transmssion of the sound
makes the music still more melodious and con-
veys to the mind the idea of music heard in
dreams, sweet and low. We were permitted
to ask one question and the answer was as dis-
tinct as though the person had stood by our
side. The Telephone will, no doubt be made a
means of saving time and labor; people can
transact business without leaving home, and
carry on conversations with persons in other
places without the trouble of writing letters or
sending telegrams even. This means of con-
veying sound is but in its first stages of de-
velopment, and no doubt will be made practi-
cable in many ways and for many purposes
not now apparent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		141


R. S. REPORT.

	SNOWVILLE, BOX ELDER CO., Jan. 15, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Snowville is a new settlement, situated in a
large and beautiful valley on the north of the
Great Salt Lake with good facilities for a large
town.
	On Jan. 10, our respected Bishop organized a
Relief Society, when the following officers
were unanimously elected; Mrs. Mary Good-
liffe, President; Ellen Robbins and Mary Ann
Osterhout, Counselors; Esther Goodliffe, Secre-
tary and Mary Patter, Treasurer. Six Teach-
ers were also appointed. The meeting was re-
plete with good instructions and a good spirit
was manifested. The brethren present gave
us good teachings, and the sisters expressed a
thankfulness that we conld now meet together
in the capacity of a Relief Society, to enjoy
the blessings to be derived therefrom, as we,
one and all, know it is our duty to do all we
can in the great cause of truth.
	Ever wishing the success of the EXPONENT
and your happiness, we remain your sisters.
			ESTHER GOODLIFFE, Sec'y.


[Column 1]
DISCOURSE
BY
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG
DELIVERED
In the Tabernacle, Ogden.

[CONCLUDED.]

	If you have not the mulberry trees—I have
proffered for years to give the trees and if you
want a thousand you are welcome to them, or
a million, I am ready to give them to you.
Some twenty years ago I sent for mulberry
seed. I have raised thonsands and tens of
thousands of trees, and they are in this Terri-
tory. I have a large cocoonery that I built
twelve or fourteen years ago. I have given the
use of that—a building about 20 x 110 feet, and
I have given the use of the mulberry trees, and
given the people all the trees they want. They
are a beautiful shade tree and the fruit is good.

[Column 2]
A great many people are fond of the fruit; it
is healthy for children.
	When you feel disposed to make a little
money, go into the raising of silk, which is one
of the easiest branches of business that was
ever followed. There is no other work the
women can do that will yield the same amount
of profit. This is a matter that I wish you to
hearken to. Will you bless yourselves, and do
good to yourselves? We have plenty of weav-
ers who can take the silk and know how to
manufacture it: and they will give you all you
could reasonably ask for it.
	Now let the beauty of your adorning be the
work of your own hands. Will you not, Pres-
idents, ask your Societies to enter into this
agreement, and go to work and make what
you want to wear. Then we will appeal to the
brethren and say, "come, let us wear the head-
dresses that our wives and our sisters can
make; and it would be very healthy for the
men to wear straw hats winter and summer.
We would not see so many bald heads as we
now see around here. Straw hats are perfectly
healthy to wear. I have worn them through
winter; and the only objection I have to them
is that they are a little too tight and close.
Let the sisters go to work and make these
things.
	Now, sisters, I plead with you to stop these
fashions. They are nonsense. Bro. Carring-
ton has given you a fine detail of them. They
are miserable looking. I dare not tell you
how they look to me, and how the vanity looks
that is in the minds of the people. How long
is it since my family said to me of hoops,
"They are so nice and comely; how would we
look were we to take these hoops off? why we
would look like the town pump. Would you
not be ashamed of us?" I am ashamed. I am
ashamed to see the tight clothes—to see the
shape of the ladies. How long is it since the
sleeves were so loose, that when you go into
into a store and the gentleman says, "are you
not going to buy a pair of sleeves?" "O, if I
buy a pair of sleeves I shall have to have a
new dress."  "O, I will give you a dress."
Eighteen yards in the sleeves, and three yards
in the dress! These foolish fashions what good
do they do? I have asked my sisters what
they would think if a lady who lives in heaven
should pay them a visit. Would she come
with these large sleeves on—a mu[-]ton leg
sleeve, with her dress pulled right out in front
of her? Now, it is pulled out here. It is very
unwise. It is nonsense and uncomely. It is
the best looking of anything in the world
when Brother Carrington sees his wife in her
new calico dress. "You look just as you did
when I courted you." Now there is another
fashion. You see a girl with her hair clipped
off in front of her head; she looks as though
she had just come out of a lunatic asylum.
The hair is for an ornament. You can love a
woman with a comely dress on of her own
make, just as well as though she had on a dress
that cost five thousand pounds.
	We do not seem to realize that we have to
give an account of the days we spend in folly,
and that we will be found wanting if we spend
our time foolishly. When you come to the
wheat and the fine flour, to the gold and the
silver and the prescious stones, the Lord owns
them. But what have we? Our time. Spend
it as you will. Time is given to you; and when
this is spent to the best possible advantage for
promoting truth upon the earth, it is placed to
your account, and blessed are you; but when
we spend our time in idleness and folly, it will
be placed against us. Here is the difference.
	Now, Sisters, take hold; do this that we ask
you to do. It is for your own benefit, and


health, and life, and comfort of the people,
and the building up of Zion. And let us go
to, and establish the Zion of God upon the
earth, that we may be prepared to enjoy it,
which I most earnestly pray for every day, in
the name of Jesus. Amen.


OBITUARIES.

	It becomes our painful duty to record the
death of another of our beloved sisters, Isa-
bella Layton, wife of Christopher Layton,
Kaysville, and daughter of Richard and Isa-
bella Golightly of Salt Lake City, both now
deceased. She departed this life on Saturday,
December 15, 1877. She died as she had lived
a true Latter-day Saint, full of faith in the
holy priesthood and in the order of Celestial
Marriage which she embraced in her youth, in
the year 1854, at the age of eighteen. Al-
though her path has not always been strewn
with flowers, she has like a rock in the ocean
been immovable. True to her Father in heav-
en, true to her children, true to her husband,
and to her religion, to her last moments. She
has left seven children, four sons and three
daughters. Lightly as the order of Plural
Marriage may be treated by some, it gives to
those who comprehend it joy and consolation
to see one who has borne the heat and burden
of the day for twenty-three years, pass away
so beautifully as our sister did. Her sufferings
were great for a long time. She was afflicted
with dropsy of which she died; yet her faith in
the Gospel never faltered. Many times during
her affliction she would say, how thankful she
was that her lot was cast among the Saints of
God; and that she had raised her children
where they could be cared for, and taught the


principles of our holy religion. Sisters, such
examples should encourage us to press on to
the end of our journey, for be assured that
there is eternal life for us, if we will live faith-
ful and true to our covenants. Deceased was
a Teacher in the Relief Society of Kaysville
which office she filled cheerfully as long as she
was able. She was kind and true to all her
many friends and acquaintances. She was
born in Newcastle upon Tyne, Northumber-
landshire, England, Sept. 6th. 1836, and emi-
grated to Utah in 1853. May it be our happy
lot to endure to the end as our sister has done,
is the prayer of your sister in the Gospel,
						SARAH LAYTON.
	Kaysville, Feb. 7th, 1878.

	DIED AT North Ogden, Weber Co., Utah, on
Sunday, Jan. 27th, 1877, of child-bed fever,
Eva Elizabeth Clark, beloved wife of Charles
Clark, and daughter of Abraham and Mary
Chadwick, aged twenty-one years, three
months and four days. Deceased has ever
been a faithful member of the church, and
held the office of president of the Young La-
dies' Retrenchment Society in North Ogden
from its organization, March, 24th, 1875, until
within a recent date of her death. Her con-
duct was always of that exemplary character
which denotes the true Christian; she leaves a
husband and young babe to mourn her loss,
who are sympathized with by a large circle of
friends.
		 	MARION WHEELOCK, Pres. R. S.
	Eeb., 9th, 1878.


142		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			A TRUE LADY.

	While passing along down the stream of
time and going through mixed multitudes
of people among the Latter-day saints as
well as the rest of the human family; we
are shocked many times at the appearance
of some ladies (so considered) who stand in
responsible places; we stop and reflect and
ask ourselves the question, what does it
take to constitute a true lady? Beauty and
style are not the surest passports to re-
spectability. I think some of the noblest
specimens of womanhood that the world
has ever seen, have presented the plainest,
and most unprepossessing appearance. A
woman's worth is to be estimated by the
real goodness of her heart, the greatness of
her soul, and the purity and sweetness of
her character; and a woman with a kindly
disposition and a well-balanced mind and
temper is lovely and attractive; be her face
ever so plain, and her figure ever so homely,
she makes the best of wives and the truest
of mothers. She has a higher purpose in
living than the beautiful yet vain, and su-
percilious woman, who has no higher am-
bition than to flaunt her finery on the
streets, or to gratify her inordinate vanity
by extracting flattery and praise, from a so-
ciety whose compliments are as hollow as
they are insincere. I consider a true lady
must be genteel in her manner, at the same
time courteous and obliging, and remember
that true politeness consists in treating oth-
ers just as you wish to be treated yourself.
Those who always act upon this principle,
will prove pleasant companions, will always
have pleasing and agreeable ways; nature
is always graceful, while affectation with
all the art she may employ, can never pro-
duce anything half so charming. The idea
should be ever present to the mind of the
young lady, it is the duty of every woman
to cultivate those attractive graces so beau-
tiful in the sex; but the charm is lost un-
less they strive to awaken all the energies
of the mind, and put them to their proper
use; in this way a lady may do a vast
amount of good, which will render greater
attractions than any personal charm, and
transmit to her name greater honor than if
she inherited her tens of thousands yearly.
	The glitter of wealth and fashion are as
but a flare of light that attracts the eye as
it passes by, while the influence of a noble-
hearted woman will extend far beyond her
earthly life, living in the hearts of those
who were conscious of her good works.
	When friends call upon a true lady she
will treat them with great politeness, what-
ever the existing circumstances may be
she will make them welcome. How cheer-
ing it is to a travaler weary and far from
home to receive cordial hospitality at the
house of a friend. The true lady will ex-
tend kindness to her family circle, where
her influence will effect most beneficially
in giving tone to the home, and the dar-
ling little ones will partake of it; her pleas-
ant ways will shine "like a light that is set
upon a table that giveth light to all that are
in the room. The many great and noble
qualities that belong to a true lady who is a
firm believer in the Gospel, and also in the
good results therefrom are too numerous to
mention. When I behold a lady possessing
these principles so noble to me, she looks

[Column 2]
more like an angel than mortal. When I
was in the temple, I looked and wondered
if the angels looked even more charming
than those ladies who officiate there, they
are so genteel, so courteous and kind in
their manner and appearance, so motherly
and sisterly to all.			D. F. COX.
	BEAVER, Jan. 28, 1878.


[Column 1]
PEN PICTURES.

BY DORA DARMOORE.

No. 9.

MADAME KUT-A-DASHE.

	It was at the opera I saw her. The first
act of "Don Giovanni" was nearly through
when she came sweeping in, with that ob-
sequious usher (who is always so polite to
well dressed people who have reserved
seats, and so curt to those unfortunates who
have none) clearing the way before her to
her place in the dress-circle, and her equally
obsequious husband bringing up the rear
and bearing her ladyship's opera-cloak, bou-
quet, fan and lorgnette.
	In reaching her seat she of course has to
pass before several scores of people who
have come to the opera to hear the music,
and whom

MADAME KUT-A-DASHE'S ENTREE

caused to lose one of Signorina Flute voice's
most charming "arias," and numberless
bright eyes shot forth sparks of indignation
as their owners' handsome toilettes were
ruthlessly trodden upon while Madame
Kut-a-dashe and her escorts crowded past,
quite oblivious of the trouble and annoy-
ance she was causing. Indeed, she had all
the airs of

"One who treads alone
Some banquet-hall deserted,"

and was evidently disgusted to find that
there were others in the immediate vicin-
ity. At last she reached her seat, which
was in the most conspicuous portion of the 
house, and with the air of a hen settling
herself upon her first nest-full of eggs—
ruffling her feathers, and spreading her
wings over as much space as possible—did
Madame Kut-a-dashe spread her draperies
about her, apparently quite unconscious of
the hundred opera-glasses that were in-
stantly leveled at her, mostly, I am con-
strained to confess, in the hands of ladies
anxious to see what she wore. With the
greatest nonchalance she proceeded to draw
on

HER JEWELED HANDS

the delicate lavender kids which her obe-
dient husband at a nod handed her. This
office is usually performed in the dressing-
room before entering the opera, but she
doubtless reasoned that in that case the
public would lose the opportunity of be-
holding the beauty of her bracelets, which
could be displayed to great advantage while
her husband was engaged in buttoning the
gloves over the white wrists.
	As a faithful delineator I must state that
Madame Kut-a-dashe's beauty lies entirely
in her wardrobe. Her face is pale and her
eyes sunken from the effects of late hours,
dissipation, rich viands and fashionable
dressing. Her hair is red, and was, of
course, arranged in the latest and, to such
a face as hers, most unbecoming style. On
the topmost point of the pyramid of hair
was perched an affair of velvet and flowers,
which Madame De Fuss, the milliner, calls
a bonnet, but which much more resembles
the mortars used for compounding drugs in

[Column 2]
apothecary shops. Near the northwest cor-
ner of her mouth, which by the way was
not particularly small, nor bore the least
resemblance to the traditional Cupid's bow,
was a small, black, oblong patch, placed
there heaven knows for what purpose, un-
less it was to call attention to

THE CONTEMPTUOUS SNEER

that perpetually sat upon her lips, as if she
were mentally contrasting her own enviable
position, wealth and faultless toilet with
that of the "vulgar herd" who surrounded
her.
	And yet she was not happy. One could
see that in every uneasy movement of her
restless eyes, in the irritable shrugging of
her velvet covered shoulders; in the frown
that made her sallow face still more unat-
tractive. What was needed to add to her
contentment? The idols that she wor-
shipped were at her service. The silken
dress heavily embossed with velvet, the
massive chain with its gem-studded locket;
the gleaming diamonds in her ears, on her
breast and fingers; the costly furs; these
were her idols, at whose shrine she daily
and hourly worshipped, and they were all
hers. Where, then, is

THE SECRET OF HER DISCONTENT!

	It is this: she has only the external em-
blems of happiness. Of the only true con-
tentment that makes a life in the humble
cottage, with garments of the plainest ma-
terial, peaceful and happy, she was utterly
ignorant. Her only idea of happiness is
embodied in fine houses, costly equipages,
elegant furniture and magnificent toilets,
whose splendor shall throw every assem-
blage which she enters into a fever ef ex-
citement, astonishment and envy. As she
is not always successful in producing the
required amount of the latter article, it
follows that she is often unhappy.
	There are, I am sorry to say, many Mad-
ame Kut-a-dashes in the world, and their
pernicious example has a grievous influence
on the minds and hearts of numbers of the 
"coming women." For the sake of the
peace and contentment, as well as the truth,
modesty, and good sense of these "future
mothers of the race," I pray that their
tribe may "grow smaller by degr[-]es and
beautifully less," until not one specimen is
left as a libel on true womanhood.—Mis-
sion Mirror.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

			CLIFTON, Feb. 5, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is with a feeling of thankfulness to
God for the blessings and privileges we
enjoy I write, feeling I must give expres-
sion, through your valuable paper, to the
sentiments of my heart. I realize my in-
ability to write my thoughts properly, ex-
cept by the Spirit of God. I do feel thank-
ful for the good instruction the EXPONENT
contains, and grateful to God for the intelli-
gent women in our midst, who are not
afraid to stand up for woman's rights, and
speak in her defense. I feel interested in
woman having all the rights that belong to
her. Why should she not have the privi-
lege to expand the intelligence that God
has given her, in something more than
household duties and dress? Why should
she not have the privilege of voting for the
officers that govern her, as well as her sons
and husband? I feel to say God bless the
noble women who are laboring for the rights
of woman! Why did God give her intel-
lect equal to man's, if she must not use it


for the welfare of her fellow-beings, and to
promote good in a broader sphere than
housewifery affords?  I think she ought to
have all the rights and blessings she is ca-
pacitated to enjoy and honor, that she may
be better qualified to bring up her sons to
make wise and useful men in the land; and
to teach her daughtersaright that they may
be the wise mothers of a future generation,
that we may keep increasing in intelligence,
until we become a noble people, zealous of
good works, and full of wisdom and under-
standing: this is just what the Lord wants
His people to be.  Ever praying for the
prosperity of all good works, and all who
labor in building up Zion.	ELIZA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DEATH IN THE DISHCLOTH.

	A lady says, in the "Rural World," that
during the sickly months, when some of
you are sure to be down with the typhoid
fever, when neighbors are neglecting their
own work to nurse you, when doctors are
hunting in cellars and old drains for the
cause, let me whisper in your ear, Look to
your dishcloths.  If they be black and stiff,
and smell like a "bone-yard," it is enough
—throw them in the fire, and from hence-
forth and forever wash your dishes with
cloths that are white, cloths that you can
see through, and see if you ever have the
disease again.  There are sometimes other
causes, but I have smelled a whole houseful
of typhoid fever in one "dishrag." I had
some neighbors once—clever, good sort of
folk; one Fall four of them were sick at one
time with typhoid fever.  The doctors or-
dered the vinegar barrels whitewashed,
and threw about forty cents' worth of car-
bolic acid in the swill-pail, and departed.
I went into the kitchen to make gruel; I
needed a dishcloth and looked about and
found several, and such "rags!"  I burned
them all, and called the daughter of the
house to get me a dishcloth.  She looked
round on the tables.  "Why," said she,
"there was about a dozen here this morn-
ing;" and she looked in the woodbox and
on the mantelpiece, and felt in the dark
corner of the cupboard.  "Well," I said, "I
saw some old, black, rotten rags lying
round and I burned them, for there is death
in such dishcloths as those, and you must
never use such again."  I "took turns,"
nursing that family four weeks, and I be-
lieve those dirty dishcloths were the cause
of all that hard work.  Therefore I say to
every housekeeper, keep your dishcloths
clean.  You may wear your dresses with-
out ironing, your sunbonnets without elas-
tics—but you must keep your dishcloths
clean.  You may only comb your hair on
Sundays, you need not wear a collar unless
you go from home—but you must wash
your dishcloth.  You may only sweep the
floor "when the sign gets right;" the win-
dows don't need washing, you can look out
at the door; that spider's web on the front
porch don't hurt anything—but, as you love
your lives, wash out your dishcloth.  Let
the foxtail get ripe in the garden (the seed
is a foot deep any way), let the holes in the
heels of your husband's foot rags go un-
darned, let the sage go ungathered, let the
children's shoes go two Sundays without
blacking, let two hens sit four weeks on
one wooden egg—but do wash your dish-
cloths.  Eat without a table-cloth, wash
your faces and let them dry, do without a
curtain for your windows, and cake for your
tea, but, for heaven's sake, keep your dish-
cloths clean.


[Column 1]
	THE BIBLE AND ITS TEACHINGS.
	SERMON BY REV. DR. A. HUEB[-]CH AT
	THE TEMPLE AHAWATH CHESED.

	The Rev. Dr. Huebsch preached a ser-
mon on the above subject at the Jewish tem-
ple Ahawatch Chesed, Lexington avenue,
not long since. His text was taken from
Genesis, ii.—"This is the book of the gen-
erations of Adam. On the day that God
created man, in the likeness of God made
He him."
	The great Roman orator, said the Doctor,
has pronounced it that books had their fate.
Some are still born, some live for a short
period and then expire; the very few that
survive in the length of time become slaves;
chained to the shelves of the antiquarian
they cease to be fields on which life reaps
its harvest of wisdom and change into the
secluded hunting ground, where the liter-
ary chaser hunts after the rare game of an-
tique oddities. One book makes an excep-
tion. Its glorious destiny was sealed by
its first appearance and in spite of rolling
time and its destructive power this book,
with never abating strength, serves its des-
tination. If there be no other proof of the
divine origin of the Bible its perpetual
youth, its never slacking use and usefulness,
speak sufficiently of its superiority over all
human wisdom. It is the book for all times
and all men; it teaches the king justice and
humility, and infuses trust and dignity in-
to the beggar; it shows to the learned the
boundaries where human wisdom ends, and
brings the dawning spirit of the child to
the gates where human wisdom begins; it
advises the joyful to enhance and purify
his joys, and informs mercifully the aching
and breaking heart how to alleviate sorrow
and mourning. It raises the finger of warn-
ing toward the youth not to trust in the
abundance of strength, and at the same
time lends the fortifying staff to the weary
wanderer for his last steps through the
dark valley of death. It speaks to nations
and to individuals, to all humanity and to
every single member of human kind. It
promulgates the highest principles of poli-
tics, and imparts the modest rules for the
humble household; it embraces man in all
dimensions, earth in all climates, time in all
changes, and eternity in all its glory. One
would think that to cover such an immense
range of instruction a system must be ap-
plied which is complicated and and difficult
to be comprehended. It is not so. The
whole book is based on one cardinal point,
from which all the streams of light break
forth with such abundance, strength and
intensity as to penetrate into all circles and
classes of humanity's life.
	The fountainhead of all human morality
is concentrated in the one truth: on the day
that God created man "in the likeness of
God made he him!" From this relation of
man to God issues the infallible arrange-
ment of all relations between man and
man; moral affinity and moral associations
—this is the Alpha and Omega of the Scrip-
tural system. The faultiness of human life
is the sad consequence of swerving from
this system.
	The Doctor reviewed the various branch-
es of human activity, and how they are and
how they ought to be. He spoke about the
amount of genius, physical strength and
the money which is wasted in Europe at 
this moment to destroy man and his pros-
perity. If the same means were applied to
further the welfare of mankind, would we
not progress further in one decade than we
do in centuries? The great book proclaims
love—love founded on moral aff[-]inity—and,

[Column 2]
therefore, it will always remain sound and
vigorous in its teaching; and the regenera-
tion of humankind will take place, when
the Divine Book will be the respected and
obeyed moral adviser of all the children of
Adam.


R. S. REPORT.

	KANAB, Jan. 25, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	In Nov. 1873 the sisters of Kanab Ward
were called together by Bishop Levi Stu-
art, and a Relief Society was organized
with Sister Sarah Crosby as President.  Ow-
ing to the ill-health and many cares of the
President and some of the other officers
they gave in their resignations, which were
accepted.  Dec. 15, 1877, the sisters of the
ward met under the direction of President
James L. Bunting, and Bishop W. D. John-
son, jun., and were reorganized with Mrs.
Harriet Bunting as president, Mrs. Arte-
macy Stewart, and Mrs. Lucy A. Johnson
as counselors; Mrs. M. Elizabeth Little Sec-
retary, Miss Lovinia Johnson, Assistant
Secretary, and Mrs. Elizabeth Solomon,
Treasurer. 
	Bishop W. D. Johnson jun., at the same
meeting organized a Young Ladies Mutual
Improvement Association, with Mrs. So-
phia T. Nuttal, President, Mrs. Sarah L.
Mariger and Miss Elizabeth A. Nuttal'as
Counselors, Miss M. M. Farnsworth Secre-
tary, and Miss E. Cram as Treasurer.
	The brethren gave excellent counsel con-
cerning the duties and priviliges of Relief
Societies, and exhorted the sisters to seek
after the spirit of the Lord, that they may
be fitted for the great work before them.
	With the help of the Lord we intend to
make the future a success.  The EXPONENT
is taken by several of the sisters, and is
read with interest.  In future we will try 
to be known among the sisters of Zion in
that excellent paper.
	The people of Kanab feel that the passing
year will be to them a new era.  We hope
the time is not distant when the saying of
the late President Brigham Young, will be
realized, “that Kanab shall be a prosperous
and beautiful city.”
	M. ELIZABETH LITTLE, Sec’y.


WHY SOME PEOPLE ARE POOR.

	Silver spoons are used to scrape kettles.
	Coffee, tea, pepper and spice, are left to
stand open and lose their strength.
	Potatoes in the cellar grow, and sprouts
are not removed until the potatoes become
worthless.
	Brooms are never hung up and are soon 
spoiled.
	Nice handled knives are thown into hot
water.
	The flour is sifted in a wasteful manner,
and the bread-pan is left with the dough
sticking to it.
	Clothes are left on the line to whip to
pieces in the wind.
	Tubs and barrels are left in the sun to
dry and fall apart.
	Dried fruits are not taken care of in sea-
son and become wormy.
	Rags, strings, and paper are thrown into 
the fire.
	Pork spoils for want of salt, and beef be-
cause the brine wants scalding.
	Bits of meat, vegetables, bread, and cold
puddings are thrown away, when they 
might be warmed, steamed, and served as
good as new.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE HEARING IN WASHINGTON.

	EDITORS JOURNAL.—Not having as yet
seen in your paper any account of the hear-
ing granted by the United States Senate
Committee on Privileges and Elections, to
the petitioners for a Sixteenth Amendment,
and as this was really the most important
feature of the recent effort in Washington,
I venture to send you some account of it.
	A striking characteristic of the late con-
vention was the large number of delegates
present from all parts of the country, most
of them women of ability and all of the
highest respectability. Representing, as
they did, such large sections of the Union,
the Committe, at considerable inconven-
ience to its members, granted two succes-
sive hearings.
	The Committee itself consisted of Sena-
tors Wadleigh, of New Hampshire, Mitch-
ell, of Oregon, Cameron, of Wisconsin,
McMillan, of Minnesota, Hoar, of Massa-
chusetts, Salisbury, of Delaware, and Hill,
of Georgia.
	On Friday, January 10, at 10.30 A. M,
they assembled in their committee room,
which was crowded with advocates of Wo-
man Suffrage.  Mrs. Clemence S. Lozier,
M. D., of New York, made the opening
address. She was followed by Miss Julia
Smith, of Connecticut, Mrs. Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, of New Jersey, Mrs. Matilda Jos-
lyn Gage, of New New York, Mrs. Mary A.
Stewart of Delaware, Mrs. Elizabeth Boyn-
ton Harbert, of Illinois, and Mrs. Priscilla
R. Lawrence, of Massachusetts.
	As a large number of delegates still re-
mained to be heard, by unanimous vote of
the Committee, a second hearing was grant-
ed on the following day, and in order to ac-
commodate the crowd that was anxious to
be present, this was held in the reception-room of the Senate, which was thronged to
overflowing.
	On this second day, Saturday, January
11, addresses were made by Rev. Olympia
Brown, of Connecticut, Mrs. Mary Powers
Filley, of New Hampshire, Dr. Mary
Thompson, of Oregon, Mrs. Lillie Deve-
reaux Blake, of New York, Mrs. Sara A.
Spencer, of the District of Columbia, and
Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker, of Connec-
ticut.
	At the conclusion of the hearing, Senator
Hoar presented a resolution declaring that
the arguments had been presented in a very
able and dignified manner; and the compli-
ment was well deserved, as each woman
had urged some local matter showing how
the women of her State suffered for the
want of the ballot, or presented one of the
great national arguments in its favor.
	A short hand reporter was employed by
the committee to take down all the speeches,
and the committee has since decided that
fifty thousand copies shall be printed, at
the expense of the Senate, a compliment
quite unprecedented.	L. D. B.
	New York.	—Woman's Journal.


AURELIA M. GILBERT, M. D., a graduate
of the Boston University medical depart-
ment, is located in Louisville, Ky., and is
establishing a practice there.


[Column 1]
GENEALOGICAL!
LATTER-DAY SAINTS who come from the States of
New England, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, 
or Delaware, or whose ancestors were native of either
of those States, who desire to obtain their Genealogies,
could not do better than to employ B. F. Cummings, Jr.,
who proposes to go east for that purpose during the
present Winter. Parties interested should send for Cir-
cular; giving terms and full instructions.
	Address,
	B. F. CUMMINGS, JR.,
	Salt Lake City, Utah

[Column 2]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
	JOSEPHINE GREGORY
	Salt Lake City.	97 Kimball Block.

THE LAMB KNITTING MACHINE AGENCY.
[Drawing of knitting machine.]
	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jeminns' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly. 
	CEO. A.	LUKE &	CO.,
	Proprietors.
	
NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies
Ties, Cuf and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
    Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys’ Clothing and Furnishing
Goods Etc., Etc.

THE LADIES
 Are invited to call and inspect the stock of 
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE 
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING.
	Where they can find all kinds of Wooden Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descriptions.
	MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.
NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

HOLIDAYS:
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries
AT
TEASDEL'S.

T[-]E LAMB KNITTING FACTORY,
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings:
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTII STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE AND RESIDENCE in 12th Ward on
2d South St., between 5th and 6thEast Sts.,
six blocks East of Post Office.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
[-]n all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,

DAVID JAMES.
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the f[--]est in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from smalI pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in watercolors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are p[-]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to C. R. SAVAGE
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALLMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
	CALDER & CARELESS.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work, in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
DRY GOODS,
IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
Vol. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1878	No. 19.


AN OPEN VISION.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

Angels still are on the earth,
	I have seen them, felt their breath,
In the chill simooning dearth,
	In the atmosphere of death.

Angels? yes, they hovered round
	When affliction laid me low,
Placing me on holy ground,
	Leaving Heaven where they go.

Angels! they have bronght to me
	All that I had strength to bear,
Through the gloom they made me see
	Visions, glorious, bright and fair.

Angels! heaven is in the name—
	On my track they've ever been,
If one left, another came,
	Faithful through life's changing scene.

Angels! some stand by me now,
	Firm and faithful by my side,
Last, but first of all below,
	Treasured with a holy pride.

Last, but oh! my most approved!
	Brothers, sisters, helpmeets mine!
Trying scenes thy love has proved
	And my heart is ever thine!

Last, but truer than the first,
	Bound by links that form a chain
Time, nor change can ever burst,
	Through Eternity's domain!

Brothers, sisters, leave me not,
	Let me never more know change—
Thou canst never be forgot
	Through Eternity's broad range.

When, oh! when shall my rapt soul
	Clasp your hands in realms divine?
Bound by laws the Gods control,
	Then each will whisper Mine and Thine!

S. L. City, Feb. 6, 1878.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE black veil was taken, Tuesday, Jan.
9, by six young women at the convent of
the Sisters of Mercy in Hartford, Ct.
	MRS. CAROLINE A. Soule, in Nebraska,
on Sunday, Dec. 19, organized the First
Universalist parish at Tecumseh with
thirty-two members. "Surely the world
moves."—Ex.
	IT IS stated that the House-committee
on Territories have agreed to report un-
favorably on the admission of Utah as a
state. It is thought nothing will be done
to deprive women in this Territory of the 
the ballot.
	THE NEW Pope, Leo XIII, has been for-
mally installed in office. There are various
reports in circulation as to the future course
of action in reference to the Italian Govern-
ment. It is now believed he will for the 
present remain in seclusion in the Vatican.
	MRS. ISABELLA Beecher Hooker had a
hearing before the senate-committee on
privileges and elections, on the 22d ult.
She said the corner-stone of the American
Republic was God's own doctrine of per-
sonal liberty and personal responsibility.
She defined Liberty as the steam, Respon-
sibility as the brakes, election-day the safe-
ty-valve. She maintained among other
things the assertion that Lucretia Mott
could long ago have settled peacefully some
of the most unpopular and knotty problems
of the day without a standing army.

[Column 2]

	TELEGRAMS OF the 28th ult. state that
the treaty of peace between Russia and 
Turkey is on the point of being signed. It
is thought possible the Grand Duke Nicho-
las will visit the Sultan at Constantinople.
The 26, Vienna Special says: Austria will
not submit to some of the preliminary ar-
rangements for peace between the two
great hostile powers as it will infringe upon
her grounds.
	THE Princess Mercedes, King Alfonso's
future wife, though bred in France, is a 
Spaniard at heart, and insists on being call-
ed Spanish, yet there has hitherto been a 
strong prejudice against her marriage, her
father, the Duc de Montpensier, being wide-
ly unpopular because of the fatal duel with 
his cousin, Don Enrique de Bourdon, and
his pronunciamento of Cadiz, which began
the series of political convulsions that has
hardly ceased to agitate Spain.
	MISS RHODA Broughton, the authoress,
lives the greater part of the time in the
beautiful vale of Clwyd, Wales, and has
doubtless derived her love of scenery and
her power of describing it from constantly
having before her the mountains and vales
of that beautiful country. She is about
thirty years of age, and is described as
"spiritual in expression, with a light, quick,
impatient manner. Her face is an intel-
lectual one, with an appearance of active
imagination. She has a good figure, of 
about the average height.
	THE WOMAN SUFFRAGE HEARING.—On
Tuesday, Jan. 29, the Committee on Wo-
man Suffrage of the Massachusetts Legis-
lature, gave a public hearing to the peti-
tioners, in the Green Room of the State
House, in Boston. The attendance was
very large, and evidently in sympathy
with the petitioners. The first speaker was
Mr. Henry B. Blackwell, who said:—
	Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen:—In be-
half of the thousands of petitioners who 
are already before you, and of thousands
more, who, day by day, are sending in simi-
lar petitions, I desire to state, 1st, What we
ask: 2d, Why we ask: and 3d, By whom
the request is made.
	1. For a change in the law which regu-
lates elections for town, city and county
officers, removing the restriction of sex, so
that, hereafter, women may be enabled to
vote in such elections, on the same terms as
men.
	2. For a change in the law which regu-
lates Presidential elections, removing the
restriction of sex, so that hereafter women
may be enabled to vote for electors of Pres-
ident and Vice-President of the United
States.
	3. For a Joint Resolve for a Constitution-
al Amendment abolishing all political dis-
tinctions on account of sex.
	To make the first and second steps, no
change in the Constitution is needed, but
only a majority of the Senate and House of
Representatives with the assent of the Gov-
ernor.
	To change the Constitution requires the 
action of two successive Legislatures, rati-
fied afterwards by a majority of the quali-
fied voters.
	So much for what we ask; now why do
we ask it?

[Column 3]

	1st. Because the fundamental principle
of American Government affirms, that all
mankind are endowed by nature with cer-
tain inalienable rights of life, liberty and
the pursuit of happiness, and to secure
these rights governments are instituted,
deriving their just powers from the consent
of the governed. Every one will admit
that a woman has the same right to life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness as a 
man; that to secure these rights govern-
ment exists; that she is governed; why
then should she be forbidden to consent or
dissent like other citizens? What is Suf-
frage? The authoritative expression of an
opinion. What is its essence? Rational
choice. Are rational choice and its ex-
pression a masculine function? Are they
a feminine function? No; they are a human
function. We ask that women may vote,
for the same reason that they vote already
as stockholders in a railroad company or in
a manufacturing corporation. They are
equal stockholders, as citizens, in the great
political corporation called Government,
and it is unjust to deprive them of their
equal expression, since they are equally in-
terested in its safety and prosperity.
	But the principles of our State Constitu-
tion affirm Woman's right to Suffrage.
	All power resides in the people and is de-
rived from them." Women are people.
	"The people...have a right to institute
government and to reform, alter or change
the same." They can do so only by voting.
	Again, we ask Suffrage for women, be-
cause they are different from men. There
are no two classes of human beings in so-
ciety so different from each other as the 
larger classes known as men and women.
Each class has special qualities more highly
developed than the other. I need hardly
stop to enumerate them. The qualities
which specially characterize women are the
very ones in which our government is de-
ficient. Women excel men in gentleness,
temperance, chastity, economy, and respect
for law. They are and always will be the 
wives and mothers of men. Woman Suf-
frage therefore means the representation of 
the Home; the domestic interests directly
expressed by women, just as the business
interests are directly expressed by men.
Instead of an aristocracy of sex, which is 
class legislation, we want human nature
manifested in a truly representative gov-
ernment of men and women.—"Woman's
Journal."
	Most substantial and positive reasous
were brought to bear in this meeting by
both men and women. Mrs. Lucy Stone's
speech was pathetic in parts, and rich with
the pathos of womanly feeling. Miss Ann
C. Garlin's speech was short but contained
some forcible arguments strongly present-
ed. Mr. Garrison dwelt very much upon
reform and what urgent measures it requir-
ed, etc. Mrs. E. H. Webster, George T.
Stevens and Miss Lorenza Haynes were the
other speakers and received great applause
from the audience. They presented such
claims and backed them with such conclu-
sive evidences, illustrations and facts, that
in reading them over one feels that they
ought to convince the most bitter opponents
of Woman's Suffrage.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on
Saturday Feb. 2, 1878, was largely attended
Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding.  Mrs.M.I.Horne
spoke upon the coming election, the privi-
liges of the ballot, and the necessity of nat-
uralization. She spoke upon sericulture
and reminded the sisters that the Presi-
dents of Relief Societies and of Mutual Im-
provement Associations were sustained as
local presidents of the silk-culture in their
respective districts. She urged upon them
the necessity of setting out mulberry trees
in the season, and not postpone planting
them out in time. President Horne sug-
gested the sisters should speak upon the
subject which had been presented before
the meeting. Counselor E. R. Snow ex-
pressed herself as coinciding with the views
of Sister Horne, and exhorted the sisters
to the spirit of union, and repeated the
words of Jesus "If ye are not one ye are
not mine." Sister Snow remarked the two
subjects Mrs. Horne had spoken upon were
closely connected, one was for the establish-
ing of the kingdom of God and one for sus-
taining us in it. President Young gave to
the sisters the mission of raising silk, and
said if they would take hold of it they
would succeed. There are some settlements
in which mulberry trees will not grow—yet
those sisters in that vicinity are not excused
from this mission. Those who cannot labor
with their handscan exercise faith and pray.
Mrs. Mary A. Clark of Farmington, made
some remarks upon the Relief Society in that
settlement. Counselor Bathsheba W. Smith
alluded to the expense attending the peti-
tions and called upon the sisters to donate
towards defraying the same. The sisters
were extremely liberal in giving and suffi-
cient money was donated to pay for paper
and express charges. Mrs. Rachel R.
Grant spoke upon the coming election, and
the spirit of union, that it was just as neces-
sary in this as in other things, that unless
we were one, we were not the people of
God. Counselor Phebe Woodruff said she
would as soon think of neglecting her pray-
ers as neglecting to go to the polls. Joseph
Smith said keep in the channel of the
priesthood and you are sure to be right.
Mrs. E. A. M. Watmough spoke of her
thankfulness to have the privilege of the
ballot, said she never neglected her duty in
that matter. Mrs. E. S. Barney said she
could testify to living up to her privilege in
this respect, as she had in the straw manu-
facture; she had worn a home-made straw
hat ever since they had been manufactured
here.
	Pres. Joseph Young spoke of the great
field open for self-action from the remarks
of the sisters here. Said there was much
to be done but our Heavenly Father was
more reasonable than we were and would
not blame us for what we could not accom-
plish. If we could fully understand each
other and the motives which actuate us, we
should be more charitable than we are.
This congregation I believe are one in spirit
and feeling, but it is the practical points in
which we differ and these are harder to as-
similate; he gave his views upon retrench-
ment and made some remarks upon home-
industries and upon the preservation of
health. Miss Snow then informed the sis-
ters that they could obtain mulberry-trees
of all sizes from President Young's farm, by
applying to Mr. Rossiter at the President's
office, and that silk-worm eggs could be
bought of Mrs. Dora Robinson of Farming-
ton, or of Paul A. Schettler in this city.

[Column 2]

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Knowing the sisters are interested in
each other's welfare, I submit the following
report. Wednesday, Feb. 6, Sister E. R.
Snow and your humble servant left this
city to visit the sisters at Fort Herriman
and West Jordan.
	Bro. Robert Danzie met us at Draper and
conveyed us to Bishop Crane's at the Fort;
we enjoyed a pleasant visit with the Bishop
and his family; after dinner we were con-
ducted to the school-house by Sister Alice
Crane, President of the Relief Society,
where we met with the sisters, and were
also honored with the presence of the Bish-
op and all the brethren of the settlement
both old and young; we had an excellent
meeting and at the close another meeting
was called by the vote of the people for
half-past six. We visited sister Mumford
and were again invited to return to the
school-house, where we found tables bounti
fully spread with the good things of the
earth, and we sat down with two hundred
brethren and sisters; during supper we
were regaled by soul-stirring strains from
the Martial Band of Herriman, composed of
nineteen members ranging from twenty-
five years old down to little boys, one being
only nine; they have been organized only
a short time, but have made rapid progress
in their musical studies, as well as their
martial bearing. The settlement is beauti-
fully located and numbers two hundred
and fifteen persons, including all ages.
They all seemed happy enjoying the spirit
of their religion, and alive to its require-
ments; we had a good meeting in the even-
ing and all felt thankful for the good in-
struction received from Sister Snow.
	Thursday morning, 7th, Bro. Danzie took
us to West Jordan, we met with the sisters
and a few brethren at 2 o'clock p. m. when
Sister Snow addressed the sisters, and or-
ganized the Young Ladies M. I. A., with
the following named officers: Miss Adella
Gardner, President; Misses Mirinda Bate-
man; Rachel Hill; Mary A. Cooper, Polly
Egbert, Ellen Jensen, Adeline Williams,
Counselors; Miss Elizabeth Cutter, Secre-
tary; Miss Rebecca Gardner, Assistant Sec-
retary; Miss Elizabeth Cooper, Treasurer;
and forty members. I never remember
seeing so many fine, noble and good looking
young ladies in one settlement together be-
fore, if their works correspond with their
looks, we shall have some brilliant reports
from them, ere long. After meeting we
were entertained by Sister Agnes Cooper,
where we had a pleasant visit with many of
our sisters, and next morning we took
train for home and arrived in safety.
	ELIZABETH DAVIS.

	LEVAN, Dec. I1th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	Thinking a few lines from the Young
Ladies' Improvement Association of Levan
would not be uninteresting to your readers,
we venture a brief report of our Society.
	We were organized, under the direction
of President George Teasdale, on the 3rd of
November, 1877, with the following offi-
cers.
	Miss Cenie Peterson, President.
	Mrs. Olive E. Wilbeck,
	Sarah Francis,			Counselors.
	Miss Sarah D. Pierce, Secretary.
	"	Eliza Smith, Assistant Secretary.
	"	Martha E. Morgan, Treasurer.
	We meet once a week; our Society num-
bers thirty members, who take a great in-
terest in trying to improve their minds.
	We met Dec. 10, at Pres't. Teasdale's, and
he and other brethren were present and

[Column 3]

gave us some very good counsel and in-
struction. A good spirit prevailed through-
out the meeting.
	Hoping that God will bless our Society
and labors, and the labors of all who are
working for the advancement of truth and
righteousness upon the earth, we subscribe
ourselves,
	Your sisters in the covenant of peace.
		GENIE PETERSON, President,
		SARAH D. PIERCE, Secretary.

	SPANISH FORK, Dec. 13th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
The Young Men's Mutual Improvement
Association and the Young Ladies' Re-
trenchment Association held the anniver-
sary of their monthly conjoint meeting in
the meeting house, Nov. 29, 1877. There
was a very large attendance of both sexes,
and an excellent spirit prevailed through-
out the meeting.
	The opening address, by Bro. George H.
Brimhall, was replete with good counsel,
and was followed by speeches, recitations,
songs, &c., according to programme, all of
which were rendered in a manner that in-
dicates marked progress in mental and
moral culture. The closing remarks were
made by Mrs. Mary Jane Morrison: she
said she desired to be guided by the Spirit
of God at all times. Exhorted all to study
good books, keep good company, and serve
the Lord.
	The name of the Y. L. R. A. was changed
to Y. L. M. I. A. by a unanimous vote.
	A vote of thanks was tendered the Com-
mittee of Arrangements.
	Althogether it was a feast of good things.
Many among us are awaking to the bless-
ings to be derived from these societies, and
are desirous to show our gratitude to our
Heavenly Father, for inspiring our leaders
to organize the youth of our Territory.
	Wishing you, dear Editor, and the nu-
merous readers of the EXPONENT the com-
pliments of the season, I remain your sister
in the Gospel,
	HANNAH CORNABY, Cor. Sec'y.

	CLARKSTON, CACHE CO., Feb. 8, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our Annual Meeting on Monday,
the 4th inst. The report of the last year's
doings was read, which showed we had
paid $133 to help build a new Meeting
House, $27 paid in shares to Logan Woolen
Factory, and $19 to the Logan Temple, be-
sides assisting the poor and needy. Means
on hand:—Cash $3,100 lbs of flour, $45 in
Woolen Factory, $89 in Co-op Store and $12
in sheep, 44 bushels of wheat. We have
not been able to get much wheat, as our
crops were mostly destroyed by grasshop-
pers, but we hope to save some this year,
as the grasshoppers all left without deposit-
ing their eggs, and I think we have a fair
prospect to raise a good crop.
	Our Annual Meeting was well attended by
the sisters, and some of the brethren hon-
ored us with their presence; we received
some valuable instructions from our worthy
Bishop and some of the other brethren,
also by our much esteemed President, Mary
Griffin; others of the sisters spoke as well.
We had a good meeting and the Spirit of
God was with us. In the evening we had
a dance and picnic, and all present seemed
to enjoy themselves. There are about forty
members in our Society.
	Desiring the welfare of the great work
in which we are engaged, we remain your
sisters in the Gospel,
	MARY GRIFFIN, President,
	JANE GODFREY, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
A DREAM OF HOME.

Oh mother! last night I was with you,
	And many glad stories I told;
It was Summer, and sunset, the valley
	All curtained in crimson and gold.

We were down on the farm and the breezes
	Came sweet from the meadow and creek;
I heard their soft sighs and responsive,
	My heart throbs were happy and quick.

I swept and cleaned house with my sisters—
	They were there with us, mother, all three—
And we sang while we worked all together,
	As happy as happy could be.

I sported and laughed with my brothers,
	And frightened the fish in the spring,
And waltzed round the room with babies;
	The gladdest and merriest thing.

Through the barn-yard I scouted and scrambled
	And rollicked the hill-tops about,
Like a young colt, which, stabled all Winter,
	Has been for the Summer "turned out."

Half wearied at last, I was sitting,
	In soft, dusky twilight alone:
Save one—my beloved one—was near me,
	And spoke in his kind, wooing tone.

I awoke, and grim Winter's stiff daylight,
	The window had coldly o'erspread;
I suppose 'twas the evenings's light prattle
	That brought it all into my head.

But say, when the Springtime is over,
	And Summer has certainly come,
May I live for a brief little season,
	Again with my mother at home?

When the city grows dusty and snltry,
	May I lay care and labors all by,
And come to the farm for a respite,
	And spend happy June and July?

		LULA.
S. L. City, Feb.1874.	Lula G. Richards


<wioii:)in.r.y han2t4n="" t.="" king,="" i="" :="" l..h="" 'heft="" ,fv="" .="" —----="" )!.="">[Column 1]
	[For the EXPONENT.
WOMEN OF THE SCRIPTURES.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	The womon of the Old Scriptures are ad-
mirable specimens of the Genus; there ap-
pears no vanity, no frivolity, no weakness;
all is simple dignity, stern duty, and strict
obedience to principle. In the short space
allowed in a small paper, it is impossible to 
elaborate the subject; I will, then, briefly
enumerate some of the principal women;
and at some future time, perhaps, take up
the rest.
	Eve, the sovereign mother of all living!
She stands in close proximity to God the
Father, for she is the life-giving spirit of 
the innumerable hosts that have figured
upon this earth. The one grand, stupend-
ous act of her life is all that is told of her
in the Bible, and it is enough. Milton
draws her picture with the pen of inspira-
tion:
		"Grace was in all her steps, Heaven in her eye;
		In every gesture dignity and love!"
	Sarah, the wife of Abraham, one highly
favored of the Lord, is distinguished by
her truth and faithfulness in all the travels
and changes of their lives. At the time
that the Lord promised her great and sin-
gular blessings, He changed the orthogra-
phy of her name, adding the letter h as the 
finale; and placing it in the centre of the
name of Abram, making it Abraham! Of
course He had a purpose in this, though it
is not explained; h is said to be a cabalistic
letter, and if so it denoted increased power
and blessings.
	Hagar is also a remarkable character; her
position and peculiar trials, and her entire
dependence upon God under them, ejacu-
lating, in the fulness of her heart, "Thou
God seest me," called down to her relief in
the desert an angel of God! Her history
is full of thrilling pathos, and calls out our
richest sympathy.

[Column 2]

	The description of Rebecca is very sweet
and womanly, and as a young girl she ex-
hibits a degree of understanding and de-
cision rarely found in mature characters.
She decided at once, after hearing the mis-
sion of the servant of Abraham, who had
been sent to find a wife for his son Isaac,
to accompany him back to his master
Abraham, and she became the wife of Isaac,
and appears to have been an instrument in
the hands of God in bringing about His
purposes with regard to Abraham's poster-
ity, and is ever named as a devoted wife
and mother.
	Rachel next appears; her character is
sweet and gentle, She is the beloved of
Jacob, who served seven years for her—
and they seemed but so many days, for the
love he had for her. Joseph and Benjamin
were her sons, and were an honor to her
and a blessing to their family; Joseph's
history is grand and romantic, and through
much tribulation he became the Savior of
his father's house, and a type of the future
that was then in the distance.
	Miriam, the prophet sister of Moses and
Aaron, was a very remarkable character;
her destiny appears to be interwoven in
that of her august brother. When Moses,
as an infant, was hidden, by his mother,
in the bulrushes of the river Nile, to pre-
serve his life from the cruel mandate of
Pharaoh, who had commanded the male
children to be destroyed. Miriam was
placed by her mother to watch the infant.
Soon the daughter of the King came down
to the river with her maidens to bathe and
seeing the child she was astonished and
delighted with his beauty, as he smiled
upon her in his sweet innocence. Miriam
then approached and the princess told her
to go and get a nurse for him, as she meant
to bring him up as her own son. The de-
lighted girl ran for his mother, and she was
taken within the palace to nurse adn attend
him. Again, Miriam appears in his after
life, when he had been called of God to be-
come the leader and the law-giver of Is-
rael; we find her walking foot to foot, hand
to hand with the servant of God; she ap-
pears in all the grand epochs of that event-
ful pilgrimage of forty years' travel through
the wilderness; and on one occasion was
called conjointly with her brothers, Moses
and Aaron, by the voice of God! At one
time she erred in her judgement of Moses,
and her punishment was severe; but by
the prayer of Moses she was healed. On
all triumphant occasions it appears that she
took her harp and led the songs of Zion;
and her glorious song of triumph, after the
passage of the Red Sea, is thrilling and in-
spiring, even at this remote date; all de-
note her a noble woman, a priestess and a
prophetess of God.
	The next prominent feminine character is
Deborah; she judged Israel forty years,
and she "dwelt under a palm tree," and
"the children of Israel came up to her for
 judgement." Barak seems to have full
faith in her prophetic office, and received
the word of the Lord through her lips; but
yet declared that unless she would accom-
pany the army of Israel, he would not go
up; and she answered him, "I will surely
go with thee;" and he went up with ten
thousand men, and Deborah went with
him;" and the armies of Israel prevailed
and were mighty conquerors. Then fol-
lows the sublime song of Deborah; she is
an inspired improvisatrice, and is the leader
in that song—for the Scripture saith, "then
sang Deborah and Barak." Her character
stands out in bold relief, mighty and irre-
proachable!
	The history of Esther the Queen is a
beautiful illustration of the devotion of wo-

[Column 3]

man! Her purity, her filial love for Mor-
decai—who had reared her, she being an
orphan—and her obedience to his counsel,
and reliance upon his judgement in the
critical circumstances in which they and
their people were placed at that time, are
all beautifully portrayed in the sacred
pages. In this day of liberty, of freedom
of speech and action, we can hardly judge
of the dangerous situation in which she
was placed. The king, Ahasuerus, was an
absolute monarch; his word was the law,
and he had decreed that no one should ap-
proach him, man or woman, for thirty days!
—death was to be the penalty to any who
presumed to disobey this mandate, unless
the king held out the golden sceptre, as the
emblem of peace. There had been a con-
spiracy raised against Mordecai and his peo-
ple, the Jews, and before the thirty days
they would all have been destroyed. Hence
Mordecai sent to entreat Esther to seek an
audience with the king, and lay before him
the critical circumstances in which they
were placed. She fasts and prays, and then
she goes forward, with her life in her hand,
saying, "If I perish, I perish!" The king
held out to her the golden sceptre, heard
her story, and her people were saved!


TO MOTHERS.

	How often do we hear mothers complain
of the tax on strength and patience their
children are. I confess to have felt and
spoken similarly myself often, but the
thought soon gave way to another idea—
what well-spring of comfort they are, and
how dark the world would be without their
presence. I believe they in their innocence
are a great incentive to a holy life. The
little ones when yet without sin cause the
mother's heart to yearn for purity. She
cannot look into the sweet eyes and indulge
in anger or malice. Then when baby days
are over and the little ones can trot after
the mother using their sharp eyes and ears,
does it not make her careful that nothing
she may say or do, may stain the little one's
heart, who has not yet learned right from
wrong, to whom mother's doings are
perfect. How many lessons do we learn
from these little ones.
	A mother's lessons of faith taught through
her children is often more powerful than
all the world can do. In darkness or dan-
ger the little ones cling the closer to the
mother, fearing nothing because mother is
there, often this prompts her to prayer ask-
ing earnestly "Lord give me the faith in
Thee that these little ones have in me. If
we could but have the teachable spirit that
children have, how obedient we would be.
When the heart aches it would save us
many pangs, if the presence of the spirit
of God were enough for us as the mother is
for her children, we would indeed be at
peace. God is very gracious to us, and
when duties press hard upon us, He gives
us more strength and courage to endure if
we rely upon Him. It is surely a blessing
to be helped in our efforts to overcome evil
by our child's influence. If we are spared
to train up our children in the way they
should go, what a blessing we realize
through their refining and purifying influ-
ence. There is danger of the mother mak-
ing the child an idol, but this is of course
through wrong discipline; the mother
should preserve her character as tutor and
disciplinarian of the infant mind, yet hum-
ble herself as a child relying upon God,
that we and our children may gain an ex-
altation in His kingdom.
	ANN TATE.
Tooele City, Sept. 25, 1877.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00;  one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH. 1, 1878


[Column 1]

SPECIAL LIFE-MISSIONS

	Sometime recently in the writings of an
eminently popular and learned man; we read,
"The greatest nuisance in society, at the pres-
ent time, is a woman who thinks she has a
special mission." The writer elaborated the
subject, and gave it all the benefit of his man-
nish style of ridicule and witticism, "These
women," said he, "force themselves into all
sorts of places, and speak and harangue upon
all sorts of unwomanly topics." In short, he
inferred that the TONE of society was being de-
stroyed by "THESE WOMEN," who were contin-
ually asking for constitutional rights (as they
termed them), and crying out for reform.
	So every woman, every mother, every sister,
"whose soul is pained with wrong and out-
rage with which earth is filled," who feels in
her inmost heart that she is fitted to labor for
some noble object, by the inspiration of high
and holy impulses, to put her hand to the wheel
that is propelling society and humanity down-
wards, and assist in arresting the tendency to
destruction of life and health, must brave the
odium of public opinion, and incur the risk of
losing caste with modern society. It requires
the urgent demands of a special mission to in-
duce women who shrink from all that is coarse,
low, and corrupt, to stem the the current of
tradition and long continued custom, and
stand fearlessly for the rights of legal protec-
tion, for the wrongs and indignities perpetrated
upon the unfortunate and unsophisticated,
left without the means of redress, and plunged
lower and lower in the sloughs of iniquity.
It is of little use to enumerate the catalogue of
crimes in which men are the chief actors and
women the real sufferers, but suffice it to say,
there is a mission for some women at the pres-
ent time, arousing them to take a decided
stand for the liberty which will break the
shackles of custom, and lead them into a
broader field of usefulness.
	When men complain of special missions for
women, let them refer to the historical records
of all ages, and see whether there have not
been, in every eventful time, women with
special missions. And in many instances
these missions have been actually given from
God. Men seem afraid to trust woman to mark
out her own course of action, yet will acknow-
ledge that woman's suggestions are general-
ly wise in any emergency where the de-
mand for intuition is almost imperative. If
woman has so much wisdom to counsel others,
if her advice is judicious and her influence
salutary, then why may she not be capable of
acting out her own nature, expressing her own
views, instead of doing so by proxy through

[Column 2]

her husband, her brother, or some friend? A
good instance of this proxy work came under
our observation when only a little girl, in the
wife of our village pastor.
	We can but deplore the condition of things
that gives woman so little scope, so narrow a
compass, and accords to man all the space for
his powers, and all the honors which the wife
has helped him to attain.
	From all such abject slavery woman will
yet be emancipated. It is this longing for
freedom that is inspiring some women of all
the various conditions in life, to make war
against the bondage with which they have
been enslaved, and seek, by every available
means, to inspire a universal feeling among
men and women for equal rights and privi-
leges in the sphere God has assigned them. In
this age, rife with improvements, and new dis-
coveries and inventions, it cannot be expected
that woman will stand still, making no pro-
gress. Woman is sensitively alive to the impe-
tus of the grand movements that are distinct-
ive features of the Nineteenth Century. Her
place is beside man in all that tends to better
the condition of mankind.
	Social life is considered to take its tone
mostly from women; then if such is the case
there is need of woman's advancement. The
object of woman's suffrage is not to destroy
men's influence for good, but to make it doubly
strong by woman's co-operation and efficient
help. There are yet plenty of women silly
enough to drink in all the praise and flatttery
of men, and find only too late, that it was all
"words, words, empty words." Recently, "A
very eminent man of letters;" (says a writer
in the Quarterly Review) frankly avowed that
his beau ideal of a mistress, or a wife, was a
pretty woman who would sit on a footstool at
his feet, look up fondly into his face and listen
with rapt attention, and only interrupt him to
whisper, that he was the handsomest and
cleverest man on earth." When men of such
opinions are the leaders of society, what can
be expected of the future mothers of the race?
	These women with missions, so dispicable in
the eyes of the masses, are not the ones who
squander money, or dissipate their powers in
the frivolities of fashionable life. It is not
their highest aim to please man, but to lift
manhood and womanhood to a higher and
purer atmosphere. They do not waste their
mornings in novels, and their afternoons in
calls upon the fashionable ladies of society.
They work industriously and energetically at
home and abroad, and though they may not
now be appreciated, like bread cast upon the
waters that will return after many days, so
will their labors be. The struggle for a wider,
higher and broader sphere is sure to result in
good, though the dark cloud is not yet lifted,
still it grows thinner and the faint dawn of the
morning which shall usher in the era of wo-
man's emancipation is becoming perceptible
to the quick eye of the observer.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]

HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE "AMATEUR," Feb. 20, published in Og-
den City, has been received, and is a very
good number. We are glad to note the inter-
est now apparent in the Mutual Improvement
Associations, but there is still need of more
extended work in this field of labor, now open
as an avenue for elevation, mental and spirit-
ual, to the young of both sexes.
	WE HAVE received recently several letters
from ladies in the East who are among the ac-

[Column 2]

tive workers in reform, and they express them-
selves as much interested in the women of
Utah. They are anxious to become more ac-
quainted with them and the work they are do-
ing here. We publish in this issue in our edito-
rial columns, some of the sentiments of the la-
dies of the National Woman's Suffrage Asso-
ciation. We give space also to a Memorial to
Congress, which we consider a sermon in it-
self to all persons, young and old. We hope
it will be carefully perused by our patrons, and 
will open the eyes of some, who, having lived
all their lifetime in seclusion, are unsophisti-
cated in the ways of the world at large.
	REPORTS OF R. S. and Y. L. M. I. A. re-
ceived and laid over for future use are as fol-
lows: Eighth Ward, S. L. City; North Jordan
Ward, S. L. Co.; Kingston Plute Co.; VirginCity,
Kane Co.; Manti and Mt. Pleasant, Sanpete
Co. We have also an article entitled "Im-
provement," by Kate, and some poetry and
other items. We mention this, lest our con-
tributors might think we had not received
them. We would be glad to receive more ar-
ticles from the pens of our sisters, on any of
the various subjects which demand attention
and promote improvement, and a broader and
clearer range of thought; then we would be
able to make selections, and thereby elevate
our paper to a higher standard of literary ex-
cellence.
	WE HAD intended to publish, in this number,
some of the speeches made before the commit-
tee in Congress on the Woman Question, but
our paper is small, and we are obliged to keep
up with reports from women's organizations in
the various districts and settlements; but we
will note one or two items here, which have a 
special interest for us. The communications
from Washington tell us that Mr. Cannon, the
Delegate from Utah, was in the midst of a very
able argument against the passage of THE BILL,
when Mrs. Sara J. A. Spencer and Isabella
Beecher Hooker entered the Committee Room.
Mr. Cannon immediately gave way to Mrs.
Spencer, who took up the argument just as
Mr. Cannon was merging from the legal to the 
moral point of view, as relates to polygamy.
She suggested that the bill be made to apply
to both Mormon and Gentile, and wondered
how many men in the United States would be
qualified to cast the ballot, if faithfulness to
the marriage vow was made the standard.
	OUR EXCHANGES of last month have been
full of interest on the woman subject, as the
recent discussions in Congress, the Convention
in Washington, and the meeting in Boston all
have had considerable space devoted to a de-
scription of the work and the workers. "Wo-
man's Words contained many items of inter-
est, and a sketch and wood cut of Mrs. Sara J.
Andrews Spencer, with which we were well
pleased, and intend to re-publish the brief no-
tice of this eminent woman. Mrs. Mary A.
Reynolds, of this city, has a letter in the Feb-
ruary No. of this paper, in which she has spok-
en for the women of Utah in a praiseworthy
manner. Such testimonies of appreciation of
the franchise must certainly be productive of
good abroad. With the "Woman's Journal"
of Feb. 16, we received a supplement, giving in
full the argument of William I. Bowditch, styled
"Tax-Payer's Hearing." It gives many histo-
rical facts, and is an ably written article in de-
fense of "Taxation without Representation."
	THE TWENTY-THIRD session of the Utah
Legislature closed its assembly on Saturday
morning, Feb. 23d, the Friday evening session


commencing at seven o'clock, and continuing
up to that time. There has been a great deal
of business dispatched during this term. Some
excellent bills have been passed, among which
are the revenue and election bills. Several
bills have been introduced that have passed
both Houses, and been vetoed, or remained
without the Governor's signature. Probably
His Excellency, Governor Emery, has done as
well as any man could have done, under the
combination of peculiar circumstances. One
bill, which was designed to make women eligi-
ble to certain offices, such as Superintendents
of schools, &c., the Governor refused to sign,
after it had passed both Houses. We do not
wish to judge in this matter, but we cannot
understand why, in a Territory where women
have had the suffrage eight years, and have
proved themselves capable of maintaining the
ballot without becoming extremists, they may
not be allowed office such as they are qualified
to fill. It seems to us it would have been an
act of nobility in Gov. Emery to put his sig-
nature to that bill, and he would certainly
have won laurels for himself by so doing, in
our humble estimation. As an example of
woman's curiosity, we would like to find out
why he didn't sign that bill?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
IM MEMORIAM.

	We have to record the demise of another no-
ble daughter of Zion, Josephine de la Harpe
Ursenbach, who departed this life Feb. 23d, at
her residence 16th Ward, Salt Lake City. She
was a native of Switzerland, and of a very an-
cient family some of the male members of
which hear an honorable name in the history
of their country; General de la Harpe served
under Napoleon I; her father was the Seigneur
de la Harpe, a man of wealth and position.
She was reared in affluence, and received a
liberal education. Early in life she married a
Russian gentlemen, Monsieur Luedert, in the
Court of St. Petersburg, and she moved in the
highest ranks of that country. In a few years
she was left a widow, with three children—her
two daughters are now residing in high life at
St. Petersburg; her son, Joseph, is at this time
in New York. She embraced the Gospel in
her native land, and shortly after emigrated to 
Utah, bringing her young son with her. She
crossed the plains in "the Hand-cart company,"
and suffered much—drawing her hand-cart all
through that long and trying journey. She
has ever been a faithful Latter-day Saint, has
borne her testimony to many of the nobles of 
the earth, among them Victor Hugo, who an-
swered her letter under his own hand, giving
her credit for being a sincere and noble wo-
man. She has lived and died in obscurity, lit-
tle known or appreciated, but she has made
her calling and election sure; and her name
will yet be held in honorable remembrance in
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter day
Saints.
	"Res quiescat in Pace!"
		H. T. K.
	Died, in Salt Lake City, Jan. 9, 1878, Mrs.
Sarah Ann Burbage Long. Dceased was born
June 26, 1817, at Maidstone, County of Kent,
England. She was the daughter of Thomas
and Mary Ann Mason Burbage, and was a la[-]y
of superior education, cultivation and attain-
ments, and of pleasing and attractive manners.
She was well known in this city as an artist of
considerable merit. Her sufferings, during a
protracted illness, were very great, but she
bore all with saintly patience and fortitude.
She was a faithful Latter-day Saint. Mrs.﻿

[Column 2]

Burbage Long might well be considered a wo-
man of strong character; she had exalted ideas
of woman, and being a thorough scholar and
well versed in history, could converse intelli-
gently upon any subject, yet shrank from pub-
lic notoriety. During the earlier years after
the settlement of this city she did much
towards the cultivation of music and painting
among our young people. Her life has been a
very useful one, and her name is held in hon-
orable remembrance for good works. [Millen-
nial Star please copy.]
	In the City of Ogden, Feb. 7, 1878, at five
o'clock, of heart disease, Sarah Baker, beloved
wife of James Dudman. She was born May
27, 1812, in Devigis, Wiltshire, England; was
baptized July 11, 1844, by Elder Thomas Smith,
in the city of Bath, England. Emigrated 23
years ago to Utah; most of the time she resid-
ed in Salt Lake City. For many years she
practised as an accoucher, with very good suc-
cess. She was much respected by all who were
acquainted with her. It can be said of our
dear sister, She rests in peace, and her works
will follow her. She was a good wife, affec-
tionate mother, and a faithful Saint.
	M. W.


DEATH OF AN ENGLISH CLERGY-
MAN.

	Died, in Salt Lake City, Nov. 16, 1877, Rev.
George R. Hewlings. Deceased was born in
London, England, in July, 1807. His father
was a member of the British Parliament, and
educated him for the law, but he preferring
the ministry, his father acceded to his wishes.
He graduated at Cambridge in 1832, and was
ordained to the Christian ministry in the In-
dependent Church. He subsequently had
charge of a church in Lincolnshire eight years,
after which he removed to Worcester, where
he had a very large church eight years. His
health became impaired, from constant labor
in his profession, and he concluded to resign
and come to America. He preached in Massa-
chusetts, Illinois and other States. He also
delivered many lectures on moral, historical
and religious themes. He was strictly con-
scientious and upright, honest in his convic
tions, and candid in expressing his seuti-
ments. His whole life had been remarkable
for piety and strict adherence to pastoral and
domestic duties.
	Rev. George R Hewlings came to this city
in the spring of 1872, on a visit to his wife's
relatives. He was a stranger to this people,
their views and condition, but was delight-
ed with the climate, and had remained tem-
porarily up to the time of his death, thinking
each year he would return again to his native
land, where he had a beloved daughter and
son and ther families, to all of whom he was
fondly attached. He has also a son settled in
New Zealand. He was a man of superior at-
tainments in education, and a firm friend to
those who were worthy, of whatever faith or
creed. He had a strong admiration for men
who acted from principle, and despised a trai-
tor, or a hypocrite. We speak from knowledge
of this good man (our brother by marriage),
knowing his many excellent qualities of head
and heart. He took great pleasure in reading
the Exponent, and often sent it to England
to ladies of his acquaintance, that they might
judge of Mormon women by their writings.
He believed in the higher education of women,
and was warmly interested in all literary pur-
suits. We can say of him truly, that although
not espousing the doctrines of the Church of
Latter day Saints, he was a strong advocate


for the social, political and religious rights of
this people; he believed in their sincerity, and
when ill unto death felt the efficacy of the
prayer of Mormon Elders.
	It is pleasant to know that there are some
noble, candid, honorable men of the world,
who can live and die among the Mormons and
not allow themselves to become prejudiced, or
biased, by partisanism. This is a praiseworthy
tribute in itself to the memory of any man—
proving his strong sense of justice, and abun-
dant charity; and no greater gift can any man
have than charity for his fellow-men.


TO LOVERS OF PURITY EVERY-
WHERE.

	"Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of
thistles?"
	"Can an evil tree bring forth good fruit, or a
corrupt fountain send forth pure waters?"
	The continual increase in the number of
criminals, lunatics, and helpless, wretched human
beings, from all classes of society; the increas-
ing tendency to sensuality as evinced by the
dress and literature of the times, and the fre-
quent cases of seduction, suicide, abortion, in-
fanticide, jealousy and murder; the debilitated,
diseased, wrecked condition of married women,
and the increasing mortality of infants—all of
these accumulated horrors unite to demand of
us, as American women, a thorough investiga-
tion of the causes of these fearful disorders,
and a fearless application of whatever reme-
dies lie within our reach.
	We therefore submit the following proposi-
tions, held to be true by many noble, philan-
thropic minds, and ask for them the candid
dispassionate consideration of all lovers of hu-
manity:
	1. That according to Divine order, every hu-
man person should experience a conscious de-
light in living, and in performing the uses of
life; but that the race, by a long course of self-
ish, sensual, devitalizing indulgence, has lost
zest in, and relish for, the daily blessings and
uses of a pure life.
	2. That the act by which a human soul is
called into existence is a creative act, designed
by the Infinite Creator to people earth and
heaven with pure, happy human beings, each
soul to be the sublimated essence of the best
qualities and happiest conditions of its parents;
and that the earthly agents of our Heavenly
Father have no right to degrade this high and
holy use to low and selfish purposes.
	3. That through ignorance and selfishness
the human family have perverted this exalted
office to merely sensual indulgence, resulting
in a diseased, abnormal condition, which phy-
sicians and the world in general call "normal
appetite," "natural propensity," physical nec-
cessity," and, more deplorably still, resulting
in a constant and frightful I increase of vicious
depraved, and diseased human beings, doomed
to infamy and suffering by the sins of their
parents before they were born, according to
the inexorable law, "the fathers have eaten
sour grapes, and the children's teeth shall
grind."
	4. That thus, through the degradation of a
holy sacrament, the earth is filled with vio-
lence and crime, and the regions of despair
with lost human souls.
	5. That men themselves need all the vital
force which is not demanded for parentage to
enable them to perform the mighty material,
intellectual and moral labors to which, as sons
of the Most High, they are called; and that by
wasting their powers in enervating indulgence
they sacrifice vigor, health, happiness, and the


most glorious possibilities of manhood, here
and hereafter.
	6. That the present condition of the human
race imperatively demands the active exercise
of the refining, elevating, spiritualizing power
of pure womanhood, to eradicate moral poison,
restore spiritual and physical health, and thus
to lead humanity to a higher plane of thought
and feeling, and to richer fountains of peren-
nial joy.
	11. That while the mother's body is the tem-
ple of a possible angel, sacred duty to her un-
born child should take precedence of all other
duties.
	12. That suffering herself to be degraded,
while in that holy state, for merely sensual
purposes, is a crime against the human race, a
sin against her own soul and against the Holy
Spirit.
	We appeal to all lovers of Purity, Peace, and
Order to aid us by counsel, suggestion, or co-
operation, in our work of social purification
and reform.
	Published by Sara Andrews Spencer in 1871.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you a contribution from the pen
of a young friend of mine, who has been
called early from a circle of loving relatives
and acquaintances.
	MISS Agatha Allula Perry, was born in
Provo, Feb. 28, 1863, and died Nov. 1877,
of typhoid fever. She was a Normal stu-
dent in the B. Y. Academy, and took great
pride in fitting herself for a teacher, being
respected by all from the principal to the
pupils. She was also first counselor in the
Mutual Improvement Association of the
First Ward. Endowed with mind and
manners calculated to win the esteem of
those with whom she associated, with in-
dulgent parents and every prospect of hap-
piness in long life, she was called, at the
early age of fourteen years and eight
months, to join the holy angels in the beau-
tiful land of peace and love, while her sor-
rowing friends can only say "Why is it?"
God knows best. Before her last illness she
wrote the following piece, which so pleased
her teacher that she expressed a desire of
sending it to the Exponent, and I take
pleasure in complying with her wish.
	Provo.	M. J. Tanner.


AN ESSAY ON THE LAYING ON OF
HANDS.

	After we are baptized, through the ad-
ministration of the laying on of hands we
receive our confirmation into the Church,
and the gift of the Holy Ghost also, which
is given to cheer, comfort and enlighten
the mind, strengthen the memory, and lead
unto all truth, that men and women may
become perfect. Among the many mani-
festations of the Holy Ghost are faith, heal-
ing, and miraculous powers. After we
have received this blessing, in order to re-
tain it we should be very humble and
prayerful, and strive to keep all the com-
mandments of the Lord, observe all His
precepts, and live by every word that pro-
ceeds from His mouth, and by so doing we
will have faith in our Creator. If any are
sick among us we send for the Elders, and
they anoint the sick with oil, and adminis-
ter to them in the name of the Lord, and
by faith in God the hand of the destroyer
is stayed, and they are healed, if not ap-
pointed unto death; for this blessing and
privilege we should feel very grateful.


The Apostle James says, "The prayer of
faith shall heal the sick, and the Lord our
God shall raise them up, and if they have
committed any sins they shall be forgiven
them." And through this miraculous
power of God displayed in the healing of
the sick, evil spirits have been cast out,
the blind made to see and the lame to walk;
through the goodness and power of God,
many other manifestations have been real-
ized. The knowledge of this power comes
from our Heavenly Father, and is not kept
under a bushel, but is gratuitously extend-
ed to every nation, kindred tongue and
people; it is the power of God unto salva-
tion, whereby we may gain an inheritance
hereafter: even an exaltation in the king-
dom of Heaven.
	Also, through the laying on of hands we
receive our Patriarchal blessings. By this
ordinance children are blessed, thus having
a name in the Church; also by this ordi-
nance the priesthood was conferred upon
every officer in the Church, from the Pro-
phet Josoph Smith to the deacon. The
Holy Priesthood was given direct from
heaven, and no man can hold it except he
be ordained by one who holds it.
		AGATHA A. PERRY.
	[For the Theological Class, B. Y. Acade-
my, Provo City, Utah, Sept. 8, 1877.


[Column 1]
			For the EXPONENT.
		DUTY OF PARENTS.

	This is a subject I have reflected much
upon, and I feel that I would like to give
some of my views in regard to it. Not that
my ideas will be anything new, but we
sometimes need reminding and awakening
to our duties and obligations. Realizing as
I do the importance of the day in which we
live, and knowing that Satan is at work
among the saints and trying to sew the
seeds of infidelity in the hearts of our
children, is what prompts me to write and
see if we cannot by our united efforts ward
off the impending evil. I have noticed for
years back the rising generation, and asked
myself the question; are they coming up
to the standard of what the children of the
Latter-day Saints should be? Some of them
are all that we could wish, while others are
reckless and regardless of the good advice
of parents and are evidently on their way
to ruin unless they repent. O, that I had
the language and the voice of an angel to
reach the hearts of all such, and cause them
to stop and reflect ere it is too late. The
Sunday Schools and Improvement Associa-
tions for young people of both sexes are do-
ing much I think to bring this about; but
let us Latter-day Saints go back a little and
see if we have done our duty as parents.
And if we who have raised large families
can see wherein we have failed to take the
right course, those who are just starting out
in life may profit by our experience and do
better. God's first commandment to Adam
and Eve was to "multiply and replenish
the earth;" the same words are repeated to
our young people when they kneel at the
holy altar and are united in the order of
Celestial Marriage. They are not told to
gather to themselves riches, but to multiply,
and keep the commandments of God and
they shall be blessed with eternal lives.
How little attention is paid to the true
meaning of the words; should not their aim
be to try and bring forth good spirits into
the world, for what will add more to their
glory than good and noble children provid-
ing they grow up in the truth. The saints
are anxious for posterity but do they realize
when children are born unto them that it

[Column 2]
depends much upon their lives and exam-
ple whether they become the children of
our God, or children of the Evil One. The
question might arise, why is it that some
of the children born in plural marriage are
opposed to the principles of that sacred mar-
riage covenant? We know that Polygamy
as it is called, is the bugbear of the so call-
ed enlightened world. Many persons say
if it was not for that principle we might
join your Church. Satan knows his power,
for he not only stirs up the hearts of the
children of the world, but is also cunningly
at work with those born in that covenant,
for he knows if he can poison their minds
against Celestial Marriage, he has gained
one grand point.
	Then let us awake to the danger. Some
may ask how can it be prevented? I can-
not say, but think something might be
done by commencing at the root of the evil.
The evil may commence even before we
are aware, perhaps impressions are made
upon the mother while bearing her child-
ren; a woman's nature when undergoing
the pain and suffering incident to becoming
a mother in many cases is almost entirely
changed. She is more susceptible of joy
or sorrow, the least unkind word will bring
tears when at other times it would not be
noticed. Often sick in body, and wearied
with household duties, is more dependant
upon her husband, needs his help with the
children, if she already has little ones, needs
sympathy and kind words to help her bear
her burden. It is said that woman has the
power to mold the mind of her child, and
that children born of good mothers will
prove to be good sons and daughters. Now
if this is the case would they not be still
better if they have good fathers for they
are often like him in disposition. Few per-
sons realize that what is mostly before the
mother during the period of maternity,
will make the strongest impression upon
her offspring. Then should not the father
be very careful, and let his actions be such
that he might be proud for his child to pat-
tern after him. Most fathers throw too
much respsonsibility upon the mothers in
regard to training their children, not but
that many a woman is capable of doing so
alone, but it is not the surest way; to have
a well ordered family in my humble opin-
ion takes both parents unitedly.
	I remember it was my father who used
to sit with us in the evenings (when my
mother was busy perhaps mending or mak-
ing little clothes) and try to get us interest-
ed in our studies, and help us with our hard
lessons; and at times would tell us of God,
and draw our young minds towards Him.
Happy childhood memories. I would that
every child could say of their parents as I
can say of mine, that I could see no fault
in them, nor ever heard a cross word pass
between them. But I am digressing from
my subject. Another course of evil is I
think, a neglect of prayers in families, or if
it is attended to it is done in such a man-
ner as not to interest or benefit the child-
ren.
	In the first place we should get the spirit
of prayer, for without the spirit of prayer
we can never enter into the Celestial King-
dom. Then if this is so necessary why not
pray so that our children can understand.
Perhaps have the prayer shorter and more
to the point, so they need not get weary;
call on them to take a part while young,
and they will grow up with this spirit, and
when the husband is absent, the wife
should take that place and never let prayer
be neglected, or in any way leave any gaps
for the evil one to creep in.
	Sometimes husbands cannot attend to all


the little duties which would otherwise be-
long to them, as their time is taken up
with public business. Then let us as moth-
ers do our part nobly and well, and not let
our children get too old before we teach
them the principles of the Gospel; for if we
do we cannot by redoubled diligence make
up for lost time. Another thing, mothers
should be very careful how they talk be-
fore their children, especially in bringing
up the faults of the father; it is too often
the case that he is spoken of with disre-
spect, (especially does this transpire in very
large families, where there are many in-
fluences and dispositions,) and by a few
words from the mother, the child may be-
gin to distrust the father and think he is
not the man he should be; this feeling
strengthens until he is ready to disbelieve
in the principles the father has espoused.
Much might be said upon this subject, but
this may be sufficient. My experience has
taught me that it is easier for us to think
what we can do than it is to do it.
	Over twenty years ago when Brother Jed-
ediah M. Grant was so zealous in trying to
bring about a reformation with the people,
I was quite young, (my second child was
then a babe,) I seemed to enter into the
spirit of what he said, and felt thankful
that I lived in this day, and that I was in
my youth, and resolved in my own mind
that I would try to bring up my children
right. Since then I have been the mother
of a large family, and although I have no
great cause to complain, yet have found
that I could not come up to my standard of
excellence, controlled as I was, more or less
by circumstances, having poverty and sick-
ness to contend with, and all their train of
consequences. But we can be found trying
to do our duty, and then leave the rest to
Him Who sees and knows all things.
	When we go to school we know that in
order to have a finished education we must
learn every letter well, and every small
word must be committed to memory; so in
entering the school of the Gospel, we must
learn the little lessons as they come, so we
may be ready for greater ones. Obey coun-
sel, keep the commandments, so that in
time we may become graduates in heaven,
and take seats in the Celestial Kingdom
with our Father, which is the prayer of
your sister.
	NAOMI.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MEMORIAL OF THE BOARD OF TRUS-
	TEES OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM-
	BIA GIRLS' REFORM SCHOOL, AND
	OF OFFICERS AND CITIZENS OF
	WASHINGTON.

	To the Senate and House of Representatives
	of the United States in Congress assembled:
	WHEREAS, it is well known to your Hon.
orable Body that, except the workhouse
and the common jail, there is no provision
in the Capital of the United States for the
shelter of young, ruined, deserted girls,
who are driven to desperation to the fearful
crime of abortion and child-murder, nor for
helpless infants who are therefore subjected
to violent death, or to death by exposure
on our streets, nor for the training and re-
formation of girls who have become vicious
and abandoned, and are peopling the coun-
try with criminals; and,
	Whereas existing laws in this District are
so framed and executed as to protect men
in the highest crimes against the souls and
bodies of women and of poor, ignorant and
misguided girls, men of all ages and sta-
tions being permitted to seduce, or liberal-

[Column 2]
<l>y reward procuresses for securing for them,
new victims at every convenient opportu-
nity, and being allowed to abandon the
mothers and disown the children born out
of wedlock, while all the legal penalties fall
only upon the wretched mothers; and,
	Whereas, all criminal legislation to be
permanently effective, should tend toward
reform and remedy, toward the abolition of
arbitrary, cruel and barbarous distinctions
against the weak and in favor of the strong,
toward justice to women and kindness to
children, toward securing to the State a
multitude of trained, intelligent and useful
citizens instead of an ignorant and vicious
generation of outcasts and criminals, and
should provide as liberally for the direct
and immediate consequences of vice, as it
provides ways and means to fall into temp-
tation and sin; and,
	Whereas, the District Legislature in 1873,
in response to a petition from our best citi-
zens, granted a charter for the establish-
ment of a Girl's Reform School, and made
an appropriation for the purchase of land,
provided Congress would order the con[-]
struction of buildings, which appropriation
for land was lost through the failure of the
Forty-third Congress to pass the bill for the
construction of buildings reported favora-
bly by the Committe on Public Buildings
and Grounds; and,
	Whereas, the long delay in making pro-
vision for these classes of persons has led to
terrible suffering among young women, and
to fearful slaughter of infant life; and,
	Whereas, it has appeared in debate that
there is a general kindly feeling in the
House of Representatives toward the estab-
lishment of a suitable institution for these
classes, and that negligence in passing the
bill has not arisen from ignorance of the
need, nor from indifference, but from the
fact that the persons to be provided for are
women, and not your constituents, while
you believe it to be your first and constant
duty to pass such measures as your constit-
uents imperatively demand; and,
	Whereas, although we cannot declare
that your constituents imperatively demand
this measure, we do declare that your con-
stituents, the men of the United States, are
largely responsible for the moral and social
atmosphere and condition of the capital of
the nation, and may more appropriately be
taxed for the protection and care of these
wretched women, and for the education and
training of their unfortunate children than
fot their arrest and punishment as crimi-
nals; and,
	Whereas, the citizens of this District
support fifteen benevolent institutions
which do not depend upon Congress for aid,
although receiving inmates from every
part of the United States and from every
quarter of the globe, while Congress en-
tirely supports but three, and partially sup-
ports but four benevolent institutions, all of
which are national in their character; and,
	Whereas, the care of the persons de-
scribed in this Memorial, has fallen for
years mainly on a few women, who are
wholly unable to bear the expenses, or to
save the sufferers from exposure or subse-
quent degradation:
	Therefore, we pray your Honorable Body
to immediately take from the calendar H.
R. Bill No. 3765, add thereto the appropri-
ations named therein as limits to the cost
for land and for buildings for a Shelter for
the Sick, an Infant's Home, and a Reform
School for Girls, and enact the same in such
manner that it may be speedily effective;
and we further pray,
	That you will appropriate a sum to be im-
mediately available for the shelter and

[Column 3]
care of urgent cases of young women about
to become mothers in temporary quarters
until suitable buildings can be constructed.
		BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
Sara J. Spencer, President; E. D. E. N.
Southworth, Vice President; Ellen H.
Sheldon, Corresponding Socretary; Susan
A. Edson, M. D., Recording Secretary;
Mrs. Le Droict Langdon, Treasurer; A. G.
Riddle, Solicitor. John F. Cook, Auditor.
		CITIZENS.

	I wish that this bill might be passed, and
the sooner the better.
	HENRY H. WELLS, District Atty.
	There is most pressing necessity for this
Institution. Common humanity demands
it.
				J. H. THOMPSON,
	Surgeon in Chief Columbia Lying-in
Hospital.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	New Remedy for Wakefulness.—When the
mind is active, reasons Dr. John L. Cook, of Ken-
tucky, the brain is correspondingly active; we
breathe more frequently, and the movements of the
heart are more rapid and vigorous. On the other
hand, when the mind is at rest, as in healthy
sleep, the circulation in the brain is notably di-
minished, the heart-beats are less rapid and forci-
ble, and the breathing is perceptibly slower. In
the wakeful state the mind, as a rule, is intensely
occupied, whence we may infer an increased
amount of blood in the brain. Dr. Cook's sug-
gestion is to withdraw a portion of this from the
head, or lower the brain circulation, by taking
deep and slow inspirations—say twelve or fifteen
a minute. By this means the action of the heart,
pulses and brain is reduced, and very soon a quiet
feeling, ending in sleep, follows. The system
slows up like a railroad train when the locomotive
throws off steam. The imitation of sleep pro-
duces the reality. Probably, also, the effort of
changing the respiration diverts the mind, thus
promoting the desired end, as when one falls
asleep often against his will in listentng to con.
tinuous reading or public speaking. A remedy so
simple and natural, having none of the objections
of drugs, will commend itself to many sufferers
who will test its value by actual experiment.
	Night Dresses for Children.—A mother writing
in the 'Household' says that she made her little
one's night dresses of cotton flannel, with legs to
them, so that if he got uncovered he should not
take cold. Observing that he lost flesh and grew
cold towards morning, she called in a physician.
She continues—"He said that cotton flannel was
not the material for children, for when it gets wet
it clings to them and is cold as ice. He also de-
nounced the idea of making legs to the dresses;
said that the limbs should not be separated, but
should come together. His directions were to
make a night dress of flannel long enough to lie
on the floor half a yard, just like a big bag, run
a string in the bottom of this, and when the
child goes to bed tie it up. In this way the leg[-]
cannot get out, and there is perfect freedom of
motion. We did so at once, and it worked like a
charm. No more lying awake at nights and won-
dering what the trouble is. The little fellow
sleeps, soundly, and wakes in the morning refreshed
and with a good appetite."


FIRST school-girl (sweet eighteen) "I am
so tired of walking along by twos and twos
in this way! It's as bad as animals going
into the ark! Second ditto (ditto ditto)—
"Worse. Half of them were masculine!"


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


STUDENTS' DIET.

	A correspondent of the "Tribune" N. W.
says: "The use of stimulants by students is
a growing evil. I have known young ladies
who felt weak to drink strong tea between
meals to brace them up. I know a young
lady who is in the habit of taking quinine
just before going to recitation, because it
makes her feel brighter. And I have known
instances of the opium habit being formed
by students." Students and all others
should know that there is no substitute for
wholesome, nutritious food. The stomach
may seem to bear imposition with impunity,
but its final resentments are terrible. If
you are told by one of these transgressors
that these things do not hurt him, tell him
we are all born but not buried, and that you
will want to know his opinion on the sub-
ject ten years hence,—provided he shall not
have gone where there is no work nor de-
vice. The simple yet rigidly immutable
laws of health are not set aside to accommo-
date Thomas, Richard or Henry, as Tom,
Dick and Harry will find too late when Na-
ture arraigns them for their violations.
Seest thou a student wise in his own con-
ceit y working on stimulants? There is
more hope of a fool than of him. For a
time he may run like the fox in the fable,
but in the end the intellectual tortoise will
undo him, and so the fable holds good as an
illustration. Soda biscuit is an article that
should be eschewed by all students, also
greasy food, fried meats, rich pastries; fruit
and the cereals, with milk, eggs, fresh meat,
oysters and fish, will make them strong to
study, strong to succeed, strong to enjoy."


MISCELLANEOUS.

	MRS. Chisholm of Kemper County (Miss.)
massacre memory has taken a $900 clerk-
ship in the treasury Department at Wash-
ington, D. C.
	TESTIMONY OF GOVERNOR T[-]AYER:—
"The following is an extract from the Mes-
sage of Governor Thayer, of Wyoming.
'Woman Suffrage has now been in practical
operation in our Territory for six years, and
has, during the time, increased in popular-
ity and in the confidence of the people. In
my judgment, its results have been bene-
ficial, and its influence favorable to the best
interests of the community. A right or
privilege, once granted, is not easily sur-
rendered. In this case it is difficult to per-
ceive any good reason why it should be."
	Cheyenne, Nov. 2, 1875.—Ex.


[Column 1]
	NOTICE.

	All who may wish to purchase silk-worm
eggs can obtain them from Mrs. Dora Robinson
of Farmington.  It would be well for those
who intend to purchase to secure what quanti-
ty they may need, and if desirable they could
leave them in Mrs. Robinson's care till it was
time to make use of them.  Mulberry trees of 
all sizes can be obtained from President
Young's farm, just south of the city, by apply-
ing to Wm. Rossiter, at the President's Office.
The [-]rees are from five to forty cents apiece,
according to size.

GENEALOGICAL!
LATTER-DAY SAINTS who come from the States of 
New England, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania
or Delaware, or whose ancestors were native[-] of either
of those States, who desire to obtain their Genealogies,
could no do better than to employ B. F. Cummings, Jr.,
who proposes to go east for that purpose during the 
present Winter.  Parties interested should send for Cir-
[--]lar, giving terms and full instructions.
	Address,
	B. F. CUMMINGS, JR.,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

[Column 2]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style.  Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
	JOSEPHINR GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.	97 Kimball Block.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.
[printed drawing of knitting machine]
	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner.  Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
	GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
	Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuf and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.  Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods.  Etc., Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of 
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE 
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING,
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and 
Fancy Articles of all descr ptions.
	MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.
NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
AT
TEASDEL'S.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY,
FOR ALL KINDS OF 
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the [--]th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE AND RESIDENCE in 12th Ward on
2d South St., between 5th and 6th East Sts.,
six blocks East of Post Office.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.
	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and 
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to        C. R. SAVAGE,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS,
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly.  Prices low and no interest charged.  Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
	CALDER & CARELESS.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of 
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
In connection with the above, Ladies' Ha[--] Work in
all its branches.  Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
DRY GOODS,
IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
Opposite the Herald Office.  Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake C


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

Vol. 6.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1878.		No. 20


[For the EXPONENT.
	TWAS BUT A DREAM.

ORIGINAL.

A dream I dreamed—not such as comes at night,
	When lost in sleep;
'Twas not a dream wherein the golden light
Of summer streams upon the longing sight,
Thrilling the heart with such a wild delight
	As makes it leap.
'Twas not a dream wherein the harvest fields
	Were just turned brown;
Nor when the ripened corn-field fulness yields,
To the blessed pow'r the sun-burned farmer wields;
Nor gaping range a favored valley shields
	With rugged frown.
'Twas not a dream recalling back a tear
	That longed to flow,
And trembled in the eyes of one then dear;
Nor where sad Autumn's tints through green appear;
Nor songs of birds fall soft upon the ear
	As falling snow.
'Twas not a dream where woodland echoes ring,
	Then hie away.
'Twas not a dream of newly wakening Spring,
Nor noonday scenes, with wild bees on the wing,
Nor winding forest path, nor garden swing,
	Nor childish play.
'Twas not a dream that tearfully recalls
	Joys once my own.
'Twas not a dream wherein the pale moon falls
In languor on some ruined ivy walls,
And with a ghostly whiteness floods the halls
	Whence life has flown.
'Twas not a dream wherein I fondly look
	On dear ones flown.
'Twas not a dream in which a rippling brook
Glides on through meadows sweet, with sudden crook
Laving the banks near some sequestered nook
	To lovers known.
But 'twas a dream wherin, supremely blest,
	Sweet thonghts unfold;
A dream wherein I sit me down to rest,
The while the golden sun glides down the west,
And blends, upon the ocean's waving crest,
	The green and gold.
A pleasant dream of breathing eventide—
	A Summer's eve—
When, half to wakefulness and sleep allied,
The mind, in hopeful numbers, would confide
The silent longings that have breathed—and died—
	And made it grieve.
A day-dream, when with partly closed eyes
	And heart aglow,
The mind, "as swift as meditation," flies
Ear from this world of tears and endless sighs,
And seeks the fairy realms where haply lies
	Surcease from woe.
A dream that blissfully reveals to view
	A land of rest,
Where faintest hopes assume a golden hue,
And gladness thrills in every heart anew,
To feel that e'en our wildest thoughts prove true
	And all are blest.
A joyful dream, where loved ones meet once more,
	Nor e'er shall part;
A dream where sweet Contentment, with her store
Of richest blessings, sits smiling at the door,
Where Poverty had often been before,
	With aching heart.
A dream in which Fame only can disclose
	Charms none would weep;
A dream wherein a sweetness of repose
O'er all the soul a gentle mantle throws,
And while my dream with new enchantment glows
	I sink to sleep.
'Tis strange, that wakened, one should be inclined
	To such a theme;
That all should be so palpably defined,
And dearest hopes with fairest scenes be twined,
And I, alas! should sadly wake to find,
	'Twas but a dream.
Salt Lake City, Feb., 1878.


[For the EXPONENT.
			INTEMPERANCE.

	Paul, in his epistle to the Corinthians,
writes: "Know ye not that the unrighteous
shall not inherit the Kingdom of God? nor
thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor
revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the
Kingdom of God." So far we have the
word of God on this subject, in favor of
temperance. in these last days He hath
said, "Inasmuch as any man drinketh wine,
or strong drink, among you, behold, it is
not good, neither meet in the sight of your
Heavenly Father." The growing use of
alcohol is destroying the human family; it
is the parent of crime, the cup of misery,
the source of ignorance, poverty, and death.
It is one of the greatest evils with which
the world is contaminated, and leads to
more crime than any other vice; the drink-
ing of liquor is increasing and working
great evil in this Territory. It has ruined
many men, and brought many families to
poverty and want; an evil whose vast power
cannot be over-estimated; "by their fruits
ye shall know them." "O," says the tempt-
er, "take a drink, it will not hurt you;" it
is by taking a drink now and then that men
and boys learn to be drunkards. So with
swearing and every other sin—it is the
first act that must be shunned. Can a man
claim to be a servant of the Most High to
be tempting his brethren, as does the sa-
loon-keeper, or the dealer in strong drinks,
when he wants patronage for his unholy
trade? True it is not the only road to per-
dition, but it is one of the most frequented.
There are many of our youth who are grad-
ually drawing nigh to that wide and wicked
way; the breath of intemperance has al-
ready scorched the brow of some of our
young men, and are such men fit to become
the husbands of our daughters and the fa-
thers of children? It is a wolf in sheep's
clothing, a destroyer of the innocent, the 
virtuous and pure. The effect of liquor
cuts down youth in all its vigor and extin-
guishes natural affection; it blights parent-
al hope, and brings down age in sorrow to
the grave. It covers the land with idleness
and poverty. It is time some measure was
taken to hinder this sale of ardent spirits.
This subject should be kept before the pub-
lic, until some movement can be determined
upon, to avert, if possible, this evil spread-
ing among our people. In years that are
passed there were no grog-shops to allure
and pollute the habits and morals of our
children. Would it were so now! but out-
side influences have crept in and these are
some of their fruits. Would that we could
see our children growing up pure and un-
spotted from the evils of the world! O that
there could be written in letters of fire, to
burn into their hearts, this sentence: Touch
not, handle not, taste not, neither tempt
others to do so. Resist the tempter and he
will flee from you.			M. J. C.


IF PERSONS were as willing to be pleas-
ant and as anxious to please in their own
homes as they are in the company of their
neighbors, they would have the happiest
homes in the world.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	HON. GEORGE B. Loring spoke at the
Middlesex Club dinner, recently.

	THAT EXCELLENT paper the "Jewish
Messenger," lately celebrated its twenty-
first birthday.

	IN THE Congressional record of Feb. 12,
1878, mention is made of the suffrage peti-
tions from this Territory. They were pre-
sented by Mr. Dorsey and Mr. Hoar in the
Senate and referred to the Committee on
privileges and elections.

	THE GREAT powers of Europe have de-
cided npon a peace-congress to convene at
Vienna, Austria, on the 28th inst., to decide
upon the policy to be pursued in future
emergencies, and methods of reconciliation.
Dispatches say Germany will claim the
presidency by proscriptive right whether
Bismarck attends or not.

	THE "Woman's Suffrage Journal" is an
English monthly edited by Lydia E. Beck-
er. It contains full information of the pro-
gress of the movement for removing the
Electoral Disabilities of Women in England.
It also records and discusses other questions
affecting the welfare of women—such as
Education, Employment, industrial or pro-
fessional, and Legislation affecting their
property and personal rights. Price for one
copy monthly (post free for one year), two
shillings. Communications for the editor,
and orders for the "Journal," to be ad-
dressed 28 Jackson's Row, Albert Square,
Manchester, or Messrs. Trubner & Co., Pa-
ternoster Row, London, England.


SCIENTIFIC NOTES.

	During the Miocene period it is certain,
from the character of fossil plants found at
Atanekerdluk, Greenland, and elsewhere,
that the temperature must have been 30 de-
grees warmer than at present, as far north
as the seventeenth parallel. In the begin-
ning of the Cretaceous period the Arctic
climate must have been of not only a tem-
perate, but sub-tropical nature. How to ex-
plain the change of climate is one of the
most interesting of physical problems. A
change of the position of the poles of the
earth would account for the facts; but how
did the position of the poles change? Mr.
Twisden has examined, mathematically,
the geological hypothesis that the displace-
ment of the earth's axis of figure would be
sufficient, and he concludes that the neces-
sary deviation of twenty degrees would be
followed by a tidal wave of twice the depth
of the ocean. Messrs. Huxley and Knowles,
in summing up the recent inquiries regard-
ing the subject, thus guardedly express
themselves: "If the earth be quite rigid,
the redistribution of matter in the shape of
new continents could never cause a dis-
placement of the pole from its mitral posi-
tion of more than thirty degrees. But if
the earth have the power of readjusting
itself, periodically, to a new figure of equi-
librium, it is possible that the effect may be
cumulative, and the pole may, therefore,
have wandered as much as ten or even fif-
teen degrees from its primitive position."


154		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting, in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Feb. 16, was one of special inter-
est. The congregation was very large.
Counselor Phebe Woodruff presided, the
President of the meeting being necessarily
absent. There were a great many minutes
from the various wards, and they were full
of good thoughts well expressed, and testi-
monies to the truth of the Gospel from the
young sisters. Counselor Phebe Woodruff,
in referring to the minutes of the young
ladies, said one thing struck her mind par-
ticularly; it was the expression so often
made, "I am thankful I live in this day;"
she thought all did not fully appreciate the
blessings granted us in this dispensation,
in the building of Temples, in the ordinances
for the dead, and other great privileges the
Saints enjoy. She made many excellent
remarks upon these subjects. Counselor E.
Howard, in her remarks, expressed herself
upon the subject of voting, and enjoined
upon all who were not citizens to take out
naturalization papers. Said that she looked
upon it as the legitimate work of Relief
Societies to instruct the sisters in all things
which pertain to their interests temporal,
or spiritual. She also gave some good ad-
vice to the Secretaries. Mrs. E. B. Wells
said she felt she had something to say to
the sisters that they would be glad to hear.
She had received a letter from Mrs. Spen-
cer, in Washington, the lady who had mani-
fested so much interest in the cause of the
women of Utah. The petitions sent from
here had been received and presented.
Mrs. Spencer regretted that Mrs. Wells had
not sent a letter to the Woman's Conven-
tion; as it was, she made extracts from a
letter to herself, and told the Convention
that the women of Utah desired to be one
with them in asking constitutional protec-
tion of their rights as citizens. Mrs. Spen-
cer said she deserved no thanks for taking
up our cause, for if she did not oppose such
legislation she ought to be stricken with
instant paralysis; yet it was some comfort
to know that our women felt kindly towards
her. Said she had lost many friends and
made hosts of enemies in our defense. She
also said, "Can you not send me the EXPO-
NENT? I need material to work with, know-
ing so little of your people." Mrs. Wells
then expressed her views in regard to the
sisters sustaining the EXPONENT and help-
ing to make it not only a pleasant compan-
ion in our homes, but a missionary in wo-
man's cause at home and abroad. Read
some articles of the National Woman Suf-
frage Association, which were similar in
tone and sentiment to the views entertained
by our people. Mrs. E. S. Barney, in her
remarks, dwelt strongly upon sericulture
and home literature. Mrs. Prescinda Kim-
ball spoke with much earnestness, and ex-
horted all to be up and doing, for the time
hastened. Alluded with much feeling to
the elder sisters passing away, and the
young being prepared to take their places.
She felt it was necessary for the sisters to
sustain the EXPONENT. Mrs. Martha B.
Young spoke upon the peculiar blessings of
the Gospel and the necessity of faith and
humility. Mrs. W. East spoke eloquently
upon the subject of Celestial Marriage, and
the blessing it was to all who would accept
the principle in its purity; she alluded to
the subject of home literature, and felt she
would like to see a renewed interest in sus-
taining our own papers and books. She
gave much excellent advice to the sisters.
The Spirit of God seemed to pervade the
hearts of all who were present. These

[Column 2]
meetings are constantly increasing in in-
terest and there is always fresh impetus
given to the mind by attending them.

			KAYSVILLE, Feb. 11th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A meeting was held here, Jan. 22d, for
the purpose of re-organizing the Relief So-
ciety of this place. Bishop Peter Barton
aud Counselor John R. Barnes, being pres-
ent, gave some excellent advice and en-
conragement to the sisters, after which the
names of the following sisters were present-
ed, and they were sustained, as officers of
the Society:
	Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde, President.
	"	Sarah B. Layton,		} Counselors.
	"	Mary Ann Walker,	}
	Miss Helen E. Hyde, Secretary.
	Mrs. Jane W. Blood, Treasurer.
	A good spirit prevails among the sisters
of the Society, and all are striving to carry
out the counsels that have been given
them.
	We hold our meetings every two weeks,
and all take an interest in the welfare of
the poor, and do all in their power to assist
them. The following is the Financial Re-
port of the Society from its commencement.
Donations, Dividend on stock, etc. $2240. 53
Cost of Relief Society House............  1345. 84
Furniture for the same.....................      78. 95
Given to the poor..............................    569. 89
Given for the Temple in S. L. City           27. 50
Given to P. E. Fund............................       50. 00
Disbursed for various articles..........    119. 50
Shares in Co-op Store.......................       25. 00
Remaining in Treasury......................       28. 85
Wheat stored for Zion, 65 bu., 54 lbs.
	Hoping that success may attend the ef-
forts of all interested in the cause of Zion.
			MARY A. HYDE, President,
			HELEN E. HYDE, Secretary,
			JANE W. BLOOD, Treasurer.

			LEWISTON, CACHE CO.,
						Feb. 24, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our First Annual Meeting on
the 5th of Jan., 1878. After reading the
minutes, a synopsis of all our meetings was
read: our report from our organizatio n to
the present time is as follows:
Donations received...........................$65. 73
Donated to Salt Lake Temple...........  20. 80
To Logan Temple...............................    4. 82
To the poor.........................................  11. 00
Stationery............................................    3. 05
Grain....................................................    9. 75
In Treasury..........................................  16. 22
Our grain report is 41 bushels.
	Our Society consists of 67 members; we
hold our meetings once in two weeks; the
Teachers meet once a month. The sisters
are desirous to do all they can for the for-
warding of the great work in which we are
engaged. Praying for the success of your
valuable paper—which is read with interest
—and for all that have an interest for Zion,
and for all the honest in heart.
	Yours Truly,
				SUSAN TERRY, Sec'y.

		NORTH MORGAN, Feb. 15th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	We send you a few items from this place
in regard to our Relief Society.
	Before the re-organization of the Church,
we all belonged to South Morgan. A spe-
cial meeting was called, for the purpose of
dissolving our Society at Morgan City into
two Wards. We were re-organized Oct. 13,
1877, by Bishop W. M. Parker and his

[Column 3]
Counselor, Olif B. Anderson, with twenty-
eight members. Since that time others
have been added. Having no place of our
own, as yet, we hold meetings twice a
month, at the residence of Sister E. A. Par-
ker, which are generally well attended. We
have a Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Society in connection with the Relief Soci-
ety, and they with us are trying to carry
out the counsel of our beloved President,
Brigham Young, in Storing Grain. We
held our first Quarterly meeting Jan. 16,
and the report was as follows:
Received............................................$57. 05
Disbursed to the Poor.....................  10. 00
In the Treasury.................................  29. 80
Salt Lake City Temple......................  17. 25
Wheat on hand 38 ½ bushels.

	Names of officers are:
	Elizabeth Worlton, President.
	Amanda Rollo,	} Counselors.
	Eliza Ann Parker,	}
	Elizabeth Rock,	} Secretaries.
	Harriet Clawson,	}
	Adelgonda Heiner, Treasurer.

	Two of the sisters here take our good lit-
tle paper, the EXPONENT, and it is read by
many more.
	We should be pleased to receive a visit
from the sisters of Salt Lake City any time,
and receive instruction from them, for we
feel our own weakness in this great under-
taking, but with the help of our Heavenly
Father, we are determined to do the best
we can. We have good, active teachers,
who visit us once a month. We truly feel
to rejoice, if we have not much of this
world's means we are rich in spirit, blessed
with health, kind hearts and willing hands,
that are ready to help build up the kingdom
of God.
	May God bless and prosper the Relief So-
cieties, that they may accomplish that for
which they were organized, is the prayer
of yours truly,
				HARRIET E. CLAWSON.

	SAMARIA, MALAD VALLEY,
						Feb. 27th. 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Samaria is situated on the east side of
the Malad Valley, and it is a lovely thriv-
ing settlement, and is increasing yearly in
numbers and prosperity. On Nov. 1st, we
were favored with a visit from Mrs. Zina
D. Young and E. Davis of Salt Lake City,
who spoke words of comfort and gave us
good instruction in the various missions
that woman is expected to perform in this
kingdom. May God give us wisdom and
strength to carry them out, and may these
noble sisters live long to speak words of
comfort and encouragement to the sisters
of Zion. They organized a Young Ladies'
Mutual Improvement Association which is
proving a great benefit to the young girls
here. The meetings are well attended and
a good spirit prevails. We have a Relief
Society in this place who are trying to
carry out the counsel of our late President
Brigham Young in storing grain and other
duties required of us.
	With prayers for the success of the EX-
PONENT and all who assist to carry on wo-
man's work, I remain your sister in the
Gospel.					M. T. H.


In the "Congressional Record" of March
5th, mention is made of the petitions from
Utah, being presented by Hon. George Q. Can-
non in the House of Representatives. Also the
remonstrance to the Christiancy and Luttrell
Bills, which were referred to the committee
on Territories.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT,
			TRUST IN GOD.

My heart seemed bursting with sorrow,
	My spirit bowed down to the dust;
I dared not look forth to the morrow,
	There was no one in whom I could trust.

For death, on his mission, had taken,
	So ruthlessly taken, MY OWN.
The earth seemed a desert, forsaken,
	Its brightness and beauty were gone.

I felt that the grave was a haven,
	A refuge from grief and despair;
And then in my wicked rebellion,
	O how I wished I was there!

Then I thought of the little ones left me,
	Who needed my love and my care;
And turned unto Him who bereft me,
	He heard and He answered my prayer.
Do you ask how I know that He heard me?
	I went to the "House of the Lord,"
And dimly and doubtingly waited-
	"Perhaps I shall hear from His word."

Was there any one else in the meeting;
	Who needed a comforting word?
Was it given to me only this greeting,
	"Just leave all the rest with the Lord;

"If you patiently fulfill your duty,
	Be humble and honest and true,
Then trust the Lord with the balance,
	And safely He'll pilot you through."
Feb. 24, 1878.                  BEREAVED.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
IMPROVEMENT.

	This is, or at any rate should be, a time of
improvement; and if we do not improve,
it is certainly not because we have no room
to do so; neither is it for a lack of proper
teaching, and opportunities to learn what
is right. If I have a correct understand-
ing, this is the main object of our Mutual
Improvement Associations, that we may
exchange ideas, and prove a benefit to each
other; I think they have not been unsuc-
cessful, though I hope we shall see more
rapid progress made in the future than has
been in the past. How much we have each
been benefited individually, we can best
answer for ourselves; but from observation
I am convinced that in some respects there
is a decided improvement in those who
take an interest in, and are attentive to
their duties; one evil in particular I would
mention, which has existed among our
young people, (especially the girls,) to an
almost alarming extent, and which for a
number of years, has been steadily gaining
ground; it is the perusal of light, trashy,
and more than worthless reading matter; it
is worse than poison to the young and inex-
perienced, impressing their minds with
false and erroneous ideas in regard to life,
its aim, object and duties, besides produc-
ing many other bad effects. This injurious
habit, I am pleased to see is decreasing,
and I sincerely hope and trust that ere
long many others of our faults and failings,
especially that of tattling and backbiting,
(which I am sorry to say is still much too
prevalent among us, and which I fear most
of us are more or less guilty of) will soon
become things of the past, and that in their
stead we will cultivate principles that will
beautify our lives, ennoble our characters,
and enhance our happiness both here and
hereafter. There are other things com-
bined with our Associations, which have
been quietly and unobtrusively bringing
about these changes for the better, one is
the labor which is being done in the Tem-
ple; it has employed the time and attention
which might otherwise have been spent in
a less laudable cause, it has also increased
the work, which there has never been a

[Column 2]

scarcity of in this part of the country. It
is my opinion that if we properly attend to
all our legitimate duties and obligations,
we will have little time for either novel-
reading, mischief-making or fault-finding.
We certainly have the least excuse for do-
ing so, of any people on the earth, and in-
asmuch as we have received greater light,
so will much more be required of us.
	While we strive to improve, we must
guard against becoming over zealous a
sanctimonious appearance does not indi-
cate true repentance, it is often the hypo-
crite who blows his own trumpet, especially
if he had previously gone very wide of the
mark. I think this applies no less to women
than men. I fear I am digressing very much
from my subject, but if my readers will
bear with me I would like in connection
with this to say a few words to the girls in
relation to marriage. First, to those who
have not yet entered into the holy bonds of
matrimony, consider well the step before
it is taken; make it a matter of unceasing
and earnest prayer, until you are satisfied
that you are right, and when you have
made choice of a husband, one who belongs
to our Church, who is sustained and upheld
by the Priesthood and who is striving to do
his duty and live up to the requirements of
the Gospel, do not become so sanctified,
that you fancy because he may have some
fault for which perhaps society is more to
blame than himself, that he is not good
enough for you, and you must aspire high-
er, and consequently seek to be released
from him who took you in all faith, for bet-
ter or worse. Let us beware my young sis-
ters, for he that thinketh he standeth
should take heed lest he fall; for a step like
this might lead into darkness, and besides
can we expect the blessings of God to at-
tend us, if we destroy the confidence re-
posed in us, and break the covenants which
we have made in holy places? Besides we
all have our faults, and we need not expect
charity unless we extend it to others: a hus-
band's faults should be held sacred by the
wife, in my opinion, and if she prove false,
it may prove the ruin of the man whom she
has sworn to love and honor. If such
should be the case, where will the sin rest?
But enough of this.
	Improvement and progress are the order
of the day, they are marching onward with
rapid strides in some directions; new in-
ventions are being made, others are being
brought to greater perfection, wonderful
discoveries fill up the calendar of the past
age. But how is it with the morals of the
people of the world, are they improving?
Alas, no! they are becoming more corrupt-
ed every day, and wickedness is on the in-
crease. Then it becomes us as a people to
be valiant in the cause of truth, and use
our best endeavors to stem the current of
vice and degradation which brings nothing
but sorrow and misery. So let us be strong
and brave in the cause of Zion.
	KATE.
St. George, 1878.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	I should like to add my voice with the
rest of my sisters, through the columns of
our paper; I always read it with pleasure,
and would not exchange it for any other
paper. Oh, what a great work there is for
the sisters in Zion! It is time for all to be
up and doing. I know that this is the king-
dom of God—it is the little stone cut out of
the mountain, that will roll till it fills the


whole earth. I often think how thankful
we all ought to feel for our mountain home,
away from the tumult that is abroad in the
world. Here, where we can worship God,
our Father, according to the dictations of
His Spirit, where we have prophets and
apostles to lead and dictate us, where we
can obey the revelations of God given in
the last dispensation, the principle of Ce-
lestial Marriage, for we know that without
it we cannot attain to a fulness of celestial
glory. Blessed are they that trust in God
and obey the voice of his servants; for if
we are faithful, we will be heirs and joint-
heirs with our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
We would rather suffer affliction with the
people of God, than to enjoy the pleasures
of sin for a season; for whom the Lord lov-
eth He chasteneth. Let us love the Lord
our God with all our hearts, and our neigh-
bors as ourselves. Let us, as sisters, in
union try and cultivate a cheerful temper,
be kind and forgiving one with another.
have forbearance, meekness, and above all
charity, which will help us to love one an-
other; and may we ever be found ready to
do the will of our Father, is the desire of
your sister in the covenant,
			AGNES COOPER.
West Jordan, March 3, 1878.

	The health of the people in this vicinity
is good, and the weather here is most de-
lightful, and every one feels a good spirit,
and generally we have a good attendance at
our sisters' meetings, which we hold every
two weeks. We meet once a month to
speak of the goodness of the Lord, and give
words of comfort and encouragement to
each other. The EXPONENT is read with
great interest here, and I realize my inabil-
ity to write to our most valuable paper,
and if it was not for a portion of the Spirit
of God, I could not give vent to my feel-
ings; without his assistance we could do
nothing; it is through Him we live and
have a being. In these latter days He has
revealed the principle of Celestial Marriage
through Joseph Smith, for which I feel
most truly thankful, for I know that it is
calculated to purify and elevate the human
family. God has promised, inasmuch as we
will obey His commands, He will be a friend
to us in the day of trial, and the Lord says
He will have a tried people.
	As Latter-day Saints and women of God,
let us live our religion, and not allow the
evil one to whisper evil things in our ears,
and try and love each other, and if we have
a cross to bear endure it bravely. "No
cross no crown." I pray that I may have
the Holy Spirit to guide and direct me
through life, that I may be counted worthy
of a celestial glory. I feel to say God bless
all that are trying to obey His command-
ments and live their religion. Such is most
earnestly the prayer of your humble sister,
						JANE GODFREY.
	Clarkston. Feb. 27, 1878.


NOTICE.

	All who may wish to purchase silk-worm
eggs can obtain them from Mrs. Lorinda Robin-
son of Farmington. It would be well for those
who intend to purchase to secure what quanti-
ty they may need, and if desirable they could
leave them in Mrs. Robinson's care till it was
time to make use of them. Mulberry trees of
all sizes can be obtained from President
Young's farm, just south of the city, by apply-
ing to Wm. Rossiter, at the President's Office.
The [-]rees are from five to forty cents apiece,
according to size.


156		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH. 15, 1878.


[Column 1]

DOING GOOD.

	Doing good taken in its largest sense is the
geeat aim of the real Christian; but the desire
to do good in the abstract is usually more in-
herent in woman than in man; not that man's
nature is opposite, both do, or should have sim-
ilar aims in view and methods of work; but in
woman's character there seems to be more of
the quality of mercy that is not strained, "But
falleth as the gentle dew from heaven," than
in that of man. This tendency to mercy and
charity is the very soul of motherhood, and
adds to the purity with which one ever clothes
the name of mother. "My mother was good-
ness personified" is a remark quite frequently
made, by both men and women. Men in all
ages and at all times have given their atten-
tion more to what they considered the weighty
matters of life, and they are quite willing to
leave to women all the sweet charities and
tender ministrations of love, that are so nec-
essary to the human heart, and especially in
times of sorrow, or trial. At the bedside of
the sufferer, woman's presence has a peculiar,
almost magical charm: her gentle touch, her
soothing influence ever felt when her sympa-
thy is called into action by existing circum-
stances, is acknowledged by all the world. In
her nature are the very attributes of gentle-
ness, tenderness and all that refines, purifies
and elevates the soul. There is no sacrifice too
great, no self-denial she will not practice, if
she can comprehend it to be for good. Is man
conscious of all that woman lays upon the al-
tar that she may thereby elevate and purify
the home, subduing her own individnal aspir-
ations (often wholly) that she may add to the
happiness of others, of those she loves, reach-
ing out after the weak and erring, alleviating
the wants of the poor, seeking to relcaim the
wanderer, giving shelter to the outcast, and in
short performing all those acts of benevolence
that come within the pale of doing good.
	Christ's mission upon the earth was charac-
terized by doing good.He went about among
the people performing acts of benevolence, and
charity, healing the sick, and giving sight to
the blind, even restoring the dead to life, com-
forting the mourner, and in short doing good
to all who would receive His ministrations.
Jesus in His characteristics exhibited much of
the nature called feminine. The divinity
which was manifest in all He did, or said, is
akin to that which in woman is termed woman-
liness; and by the masses is often looked upon
as weakness. Woman has ever borne heavy
burdens of sorrow, in some instances (perhaps
in many) self-imposed, but nevertheless a
cross. One has only to read the Scriptures to
see what heroic self-denial women are capable

[Column 2]

of exercising. The story of Esther is one of the
rarest examples of sacred history, and her un-
precedented courage is without a parallel.
	The Scriptures afford many rare illustrations
of the elements of goodness in woman's char-
acter. And in later times history abonnds
with examples of woman's sacrifices for noble
enterprises and good works.
	There are, to be sure, few if any lives whose
scope is so narrow as to preclude all opportunity
for doing good. Every woman has her own
immediate circle, in which she may develop
her ability to do good. Every mother has an
extensive field to labor in. Her heart and
sympathies are enlisted, if she be a true moth-
er, in the development of all that is purest and
noblest in her children, and in so conducting
the affairs of home and life, as to conduce to
the continual well-being of her offspring.
Naturally enough she must take in a wider
range of thought than that which bounds her
domestic domain. How many thousand temp-
tations and evils there are to be met outside
the mother's influence, where her power is
vain to shield and ward off dangers, more ap-
palling than death, is easily comprehended.
	Is it strange that possessing all the capabili-
ties of a rational being there should spring up
in the mind of woman, new ideas and
thoughts in regard to stemming the current of
evil outside of home? That her aspirations to
do good should reach forth for new fields to la-
bor in, when she sees ofttimes how utterly pow-
erless are the utmost exertions that can be
made single-handed, to arrest the growth of
evil that continually gathers from every quar-
ter, and all ranks in life fresh forces?
	Is it very wonderful, we would beg leave to
ask, when the mother sees her darling boy, the
pride of her heart, and in anticipation the staff
of her declining years, become a drunkard in
spite of her exemplary life, her diligent train-
ing and constant prayers, that she should want
to know the cause, and causes? And is it so
very remarkable that having found sources pro-
lific of evil influences she should call up all
her latent powers of mind, and active energies
to assist in remedying deleterious causes. Is it
not consistent that she should seek to under-
stand for herself all about the state of public
morals, as well as the laws that regulate them,
and finding much that is impure, and unjust,
is it a marvel that she should desire to infuse
into the atmosphere which her own offspring
and posterity must breathe, all the elements of
goodness which she is capable of introducing.
	It is useless to attempt to enumerate all the
different phases of enlightened and free gov-
ernments, where man's power is almost abso-
lute, and woman be she wronged or unfortu-
nate beats, against the iron bars of custom in
vain. To be sure many women cannot see
that it is any use to vote and are more willing
to be imprisoned than free, but it is partly be-
cause they prefer to go on in the good old-fash-
ioned way to any change, lest it should involve
them in more or greater difficulties.
	Men have made rapid strides in many re-
spects in the last few centuries; great discov-
eries and inventions are constantly diffusing
new light in the world of science, but of what
avail will knowledge be, if there is no correct
system of government, no justice for mankind,
and mercy to "flavor justice."
	Woman's most active powers are, and will be
needed, not only in the home circle, but in as-
sisting to purify and elevate the tone of public
morals, and to do so, woman must herself live
to a high standard of excellence. Women of
fashion who live for pleasure and to kill time,
are treacherous to the divine nature implanted
in their bosoms. There is a higher and nobler

[Column 3]

purpose in life than can ever be reached by
such means.
	The element of goodness and of spirituality
in a true woman is always of a refining charac-
ter, and in whatever department of life her
presence is felt, it has ever been an incentive
to holy and lofty aspirations. If husbands were
more willing to take counsel of wives in most
instances no doubt it would be better policy;
but instead of both working together it is often
the case they pull against each other, and the
result is anything but a happy one. When
men and women are equal partners in the
great battle of life there will, to say the least,
be less cause of complaint. That the world
moves is easy to see, and that women move
with it as well as men, is now becoming pretty
generally conceded. The Lord is doing a work
in these last days and woman's share in it is
every day more clearly defined. Those who
are quickest to discern, whether men or wo-
men will perceive the dawn of new light in
the horizon and will proclaim the truth to
those who sit in dark places.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE a specimen of the ribbon woven
by Sister Wadroup of Centreville, of pure
home-made silk made from the elements of
Utah. The loom in which it was woven was
made in Centreville from a model brought
from England. There is an increased interest
awakened in sericulture, brought about more
particularly through the untiring labors and
exertions of Mrs. Zina D. Young, Miss E. R.
Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. E. S. Barney and
other sisters who have labored indefatigably
in this arduous undertaking. Much credit is
due these ladies for their courage and exertions
under difficulties, and all sorts of unfavorable
circumstances.

	THE FIRST Quarterly meeting of the
Relief Society of Salt Lake Co. will be held at
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on
Saturday, March 23rd, 1878, punc[-]ually at
2 o'clock p. m. The Secretaries of the var-
ious wards and districts are requested to send
in a report previous to that time, in order that
the Secretary may have an opportunity to pe-
ruse each roport previous to reading them in
public. Each branch of the Relief Society in
this Stake of Zion is expected to furnish a con-
cise statement of the first organization, and of
any particular change of officers, or reorgani-
zation, and a complete financial report of all
funds received and disbursed, and for what
purposes etc. These reports should be as brief
as it is possible to make them, and have them
sufficiently definite. Afterwards reports will
be made every three months, which will re-
quire but little extra time and attention. By
means of this organization or board of county
officers, a correct estimate will be made every
three months of all funds handled by the sis-
ters in this organized capacity in this Stake of
Zion. The people will be better posted upon
the appropriation made of means donated. At
this meeting it is expected that the board of
officers of each society will be present as there
will likely be instructions given relating to 
the Relief Society, its present and future pros-
pects and duties that will be desirable that all
should understand for themselves- A general
invitation is extended to all interested in the
progress of the work of the sisters in Zion to
be present at the meeting.
				MARY I. HORNE, President.
				ELIZABETH HOWARD, Sec'y.


<opler to="" jdosojt="" requires="" up="" 11-="" ecu="" efforts-="" almp3ti="" pyery..="" belief="" .="" ibocietyin="" ‘="" fixjtah.cariif.="" they="" make="" an="" exdrtion;="" lend="" a="" :="" helping="" hand="" to:.the="" general'interest="" rof="" this="" special="" industry="" :;ifcis="" expected="" now="" that="" there="" twill="" soon="" be="" suitable:="" machinery="" for;="" ruahufac-="" cturing,="" and="" meantime="" themulberrydrees'tnust="" be'="" growing,="" so="" the="" silk-worms="" can="" have'="" food,="" large="" quantity="" of="" cocftons="" will="" warite'd="" supply="" silk="" feelers,="" sisters'who="" 'understand="" reeling="" should="" have="" employment,="" and’stimulate="" others="" tb="" leprn="" it="" is="" a‘trade="" easily="" learned,="" bp="" refnuppratlve="" one,="" ”lor="" future="" benefit,a's="" ismoyz="" well-known="" fact="" climate="" ot="" utah="" adapted="" cul-="" tivation,="" enterprise,="" lain="" the'landsof="" those="" who="" notlet="" anything="" daunt="" tpem="" jfrom="" pushing="" the,="" work="" forward.="" yet="" coprse="" itwill="" depend="" upon="" people,‘whether="" much="" qr,liitle="" shall="" accomplished,="" fqr="" if="" there,are="" jqof"="" many="" mulberry="" trees,="" will]="" not="" manycocoons,="" consequently="" jbe.="" material="" for="" loom.="" society="" -and="" y.="" b.="" m.="" i.="" a.="" presidents="" forget="" tliis="" important="" mission="" given="" them="" at.ihe="" con-="" ference="" in="" st.="" george="" templp.less="" .than="" syear="" ago,="" by="" no="" mote="" our="" .midst="" -counsel="" and;="" instruct.="" labor="" .is="" solei.work="" few="" individuals,="" but="" people,="" ancbthe="" result="" such="" as="" is-ever="" re-="" -ward="" diligence="" lndustry-in="" communi-="" ty—wealth="" prosperity.="" pamphlets,="" giving="" definite="" details'‘of1="" sericulture="" all="" its="" stages,="" are="" sale="" 'at’the="" comfuission="" store="" home="" manufac-="" tures,="" old="" constitutiou="" buildings,="" at="" tbn="" cents="" each.="" sisters="" bear="" mind="" store,="" established="" through="" their="" united="" 'energies,="" counsel="" president="" young="" still="" needs="" patronage.="" increasing="" va-="" 'riely'of="" goods,="" arid="" utmost="" pains="" 'taicenfo.="" most="" flourishing="" institu="" j?tipn="" irf="" salteak="" e="" ,cit,="" thl9.pe0plq.eyer="" ex-="" mctto.become="" independent="" ballon,="" j’t‘f<="" div="">	OUR GOOD sisters Miss Eliza R. Snow, Mrs.
M. Isabella Horne and Mrs. Zina D. Young
have been making a tour through the north-
ern settlements in Davis, Cache and Box El-
der Counties, in the interest of Relief Socie-
ties and Y. L. M. I. A., laboring to awaken a re-
newed interest in all the departments of wo-
man's work which pertains to the building up
of Zion.  These sisters with many others are
earnestly seeking to promote home industries
among the people, to give employment to the
poor and make the saints more self-sustaining.
One of the principle objects now in view is to
establish sericulture and make it a successful
enterprise; and in order to do so it requires unit-
ed efforts. Almost every Relief Society in
Utah can, if they make an exertion, lend a 
helping hand to the general interest of this
special industry.  It is expected now that there
will soon be suitable machinery for manufac-
turing, and meantime the mulberry trees must
be growing, so the silk-worms can have food,
and a large quantity of cocoons will be wanted
to supply the silk reelers, and the sisters who
understand reeling should have employment,
and stimulate others to learn  It is a trade
easily learned, and will be a remunerative one,
for future benefit, as it is now a well-known fact
that the climate of Utah is adapted to silk cul-
tivation, and the enterprise is in the hands of
those who will not let anything daunt them
from pushing the work forward.  Yet of course
it will depend upon the people, whether much
or little shall be accomplished, for if there are
not many mulberry trees, there will not be
many cocoons, and consequently there will not
be material for the loom.  The Relief Society
and Y. L. M. I. A. Presidents should not forget
this important mission given them at the Con-
ference in the St. George Temple less than a 
year ago, by one, now no more in our midst to
counsel and instruct.  This labor is not the
sole work of a few individuals, but the people,
and the result will be such as is ever the re-
ward of diligence and industry in a commui-
ty— wealth and prosperity.
 Pamphlets, giving definite details of the 
work of sericulture in all its stages, are for sale
at the Commission Store for Home Manufac-
tures, in the Old Constitutiou buildings, at ten
cents each.  The sisters should bear in mind
that this store, established through their united
energies, by counsel of President Young, still
needs their patronage.  It is increasing in va-
riety of goods, and the utmost pains should be
taken to make it the most flourishing institu
tion in Salt Lake City, if this people ever ex-
pect to become independent of Babylon.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

	For the EXPONENT.
IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED: At Wanship, Summit Co., Utah, Sat-
urday March 2d, 1878, about midnight, of pneu-
monia after a short and severe illness of less
than four days, Sister Susan Sanford Pierson
Richards. Deceased was the daughter of Hon.
Wm. Pierson and Nancy Richards Pierson of
Richmond, Berkshire Co , Mass., at which
place she was born Dec. 13, 1831. She obeyed
the gospel in the days of her youth, and was
baptized into the Church. In 1852 in company
with her mother undertook the perilous jour-
ney from her native place to gather with the
saints to their newly discovered home in the
Rocky Mountains. Nor did her courage fail
her when called to part with and bury her
dear mother by the way, at a place on the
Platte River known as the "Liberty Pule.'
Soon after her arrival in Utah she became the
wife of Elder Franklin D. Richards, by whom
she was the honored mother of a daughter,

[Column 2]

and two sons who survive to mourn her loss.
She was a virtuous, devoted and faithful wife,
a dutiful, anxious and indulgent mother, an
unwavering, patient and exemplary saint, who
lived true to the profession of her faith, while
she sojourned with us. Since the organization
of the Relief Society she has taken an active
part in the duties thereof, and filled the posi-
tion of Secretary until her death. Her re-
mains were brought to this city for interment
with the deceased of her husband's family in
the Salt Lake Cemetery. The funeral services
were held at the residence of her cousin L. W.
Richards at 1 o'clock on Tuesday March 5th,
President Joseph Young, Bishop Lorenzo
Young, and Elder Joseph F. Smith took part
in the funeral services, and many excellent
things were said calculated to comfort the rela-
tives and friends; Prof. Daynes with a choir
of sweet singers was present, and the music
lent a soothing and heavenly influence to
the so'emn occasion.

	IT IS with feelings of deep regret we record
the demise of one of our beloved sisters, Mary
Stubs, wife of Henry Stubs of Malad City; de-
ceased was born November 12th, 1854. Emi-
grated to Utah in 1869 with her parents, David
and Mary Morgan of Brigham City, from Alt-
oven branch, Glamorganshire, South Wales;
was married December 1st, 1873, in Salt Lake
City. She departed this life March 3rd, 1878.
aged twenty three years, three months. She
was a firm believer in the principles of the
Everlasting Gospel, and was full of faith and
patience. Her sufferings were truly great and
she realized the promise of the Lord that as
her day her strength should be; when suffer-
ing great pain of body she would say my faith
is good, but my body is very weak, but I will
try and be patient in suffering. After great
and continued suffering she at last quietly fell
asleep, leaving a loving husband and affection-
ate parents to mourn her loss; and while we
sympathize with the bereaved family and feel
the loss of our dear sister, we can look forward
to the day when the faithful dead shall hear
the Archangel's trump and come forward to
shine as the sun forever. Should we mourn as
those without hope? No dear sisters. Let us
prepare ourselves while here to dwell with our
Father in heaven and receive the welcome
plaudit, "Well done good and faithful servant,
enter thou into the joy of thy Lord." Our
dear sister whose death we record, was a mem-
ber of the Relief Society and the Young La-
dies Mutual Improvement Association and was
ever anxious to do good. May it be our happy
portion when called to pass behind the vail,
like her to look forward with hope to a glori-
ous resurrection in the kingdom of our God.
	ANNE SAWYER, Secretary Y. L. M. I. A.
		So rest in peace dear mother;
			With our Father dwell awhile,
		When our work on earth is finished
			Greet us with your holy smile.

	DIED AT Horse Shoe Bend, Beaver Co., on
the 27th of January, Mrs. Kerziah Burk:
daught r of James and Mary Van Benthusen,
born in Albany, New York, May 15th, 1796.
She received the Gospel in the fall of 1830, in
Kirtland Ohio. She was in the second com-
pany of Saints who went up to Jackson
County Missouri; and shared in all the perse-
cutions that befell the Saints both Missouri,
and Illinois; Though ill in body, confined to
the bed, yet she was compelled through the
religious persecution to leave Nauvoo and cross
the plains, in company with the Saints, to set-
tle in the mountains. She was a faithful wife
and mother, and a true Latter-day Saint, and
died in the hope of coming forth in the morn-

[Column 3]

ing of the resurrection with the just made
perfect, and dwelling with her Redeemer.
	M. E. R. L.

	DIED IN Salt Lake City Jan. 25, 1878, Eli-
za, widow of Stephen Lees, in the seventy-
third year of her age. Deceased was born July
7th, 1805, at Doncaster, Yorkshire, England.
She embraced the G spel in May 1848, at Ash-
ton Under-Lyne, and emigrated to Utah in
1853. Sister Eliza Lees has ever been true to
the Gospel, and while in England did much
good in assisting the Elders and making a home
for the missionaries. She contributed liberally
of her means to the Church. She was devot-
edly attached to her faith, punctual to the du-
ties of a Latter-day Saint. She delighted in
talking upon the principles of the Gospel in
which her soul was engrossed. She was a con-
stant attendant at public worship and was one
of the few who regularly attend the Fast Meet-
ings. She had no fear of death, and passed
from earth as peacefully as a child falling
asleep. She was a member of the Relief So-
ciety in the 13th Ward, where she resided, and
took great pleasure in attending the sisters'
meetings. She was the last of her family.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	WEST WEBER, WEBER CO., March 5th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	After a long silence I thought I would write
a few of my feelings, and reflections to you.
Althongh I have not written lately, I have
found time to read the EXPONENT. I find the
same spirit of persecution is still abroad in the
land as in days past, when the saints were
scattered and driven, and my heart burns with
resentment towards those who ought to protect
a mere handful of peaceful, loyal citizens. If
it were not for the God of Joseph in whom we
trust we should indeed be called to suffer much.
Our enemies are possessed of the same spirit
still, that incited them to drive the saints from
Far West, Nauvoo aud other places, when our 
brethren and sisters were butchered like dogs
in many instances. When I read the "Women
of Mormondom," and see what my dear sisters
passed through in those days, some to see their
husband and children murdered before their
eyes, my heart sickens to think that such was
their fate in a free country, because they obey-
ed the Gospel of Jesus Christ as laid down in 
the Bible, which book all the Christian world
profess to believe in. After having suffered so
much at the hands of our enemies, still they
are not satisfied, they will not be content to
leave us alone here in [-]ur "mountain home,"
but endeavor to legislate away our rights and 
priviliges as American citizens, and as we may
justly be termed exiles from home, country and
friends, yet that is not enough.
	But it is the Lord's work we are engaged in
and all the world cannot hinder its onward
march. As the prophets have said it will grow
and triumph over all foes until it fills the
whole earth, and He whose right it is to reign
will come and the kingdoms of this earth will
be given to the Saints of the Most High.
	I feel to encourage all my sisters, and say let
us teach our sons and daughters to obey the
laws of God, and be willing to abide in the 
New and Everlasting Covenant which in-
cludes the principle of Celestial Marriage. Let
us never suffer ourselves to speak lightly of
this sacred and holy order of matrimony. I
desire to bear my testimony to my sisters and
to the world, that it is the revealed will of God.
I entered into this holy order more than
tweny-three years ago; and have never had


any regrets but have ever felt glad that I had
the privilige of living within the requirments
of a divine law.  Sisters let us magnify our
callings as mothers  and wives in Israel, and as-
sist our husbands in keeping the laws that will
lead to exaltation and eternal lives.
	We are prospering here, our Relief Society is
in a healthy condition.  Our President Mary
Douglas, with her Counselors and the Teach-
ers, are doing all they can to comfort and help
the poor, likewise to carry out the counsels of
the servants of God in the storing of grain and
other public purposes. We have fifty-seven
bushels stored, belonging to this little Society;
we have our meetings once a month, which
are very well attended.  Bishop John I. Hart
meet with us occasionally and encourages us
to press onward in the good work we are en-
gaged in.
	I pray God to bless all that desire to do good
and to help build up this kingdom with much
faith, that we may overcome evil and be saved
and exalted in the presence of God. Amen.
					P. S. HART.

		KANAB, KANE CO., Feb. 20, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By reading the EXPONENT I find there is an
effort made by the sisters to store grain and the
importance of having it safely kept.  I would
suggest mixing lime dust (air slacked) with the 
wheat as a perventive of weavel;two bushels
to the hundred is sufficient: the crevices of the
bin should be filled with lime.  I have seen my
husband use lime in this way with effect in St.
George, after the weavel had gained possession
in great multitudes, by removing the wheat
from the bin, and exposing it to light on a 
floor, the weavel would gather out  the dark-
est palce they could find.
		Respectfully,
				LOUISA OAKLEY.
			KINGSTON, Feb. 10, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The sisters of this place were organized into a 
Relief Society by Bishop King and Counselors,
Dec. 16, 1877, with Susan Black President,
Esther King, and Frances White Counselors,
Mary T. Wilcox, Secretary, and Mary A. Sav-
age, Treasurer.  We also have a corps of 
Teachers with M.T. Wilcox President, who 
visit the sisters monthly to encourage and
strengthen them in their duties both temporal
and spiritual.  We hold our testimony meet-
ings on fast days at 2 o'clock p.m, which are
well attended and an excellent spirit prevails;
both old and young take a lively interest in
speaking of the goodness of God.
	A branch of the United Order was organized
in this place May 1st, 1877, with Thomas R.
King, President, Joel Hwite, and Wm. King,
Vice President; T. King, Secretary; Mortimer
Warner, Treasurer.  The members feel will
satisfied and are united, each one being willing
to do whatever they may be called upon to
do by those placed to direct.  We are working
on the joint-stock principle, each one putting
in all they possess and all fare alike.  They are
building our houses on a sqaure, and it is the
intention to build a dining-hall in the center.
The Lord has crowned our labors with a good
harvest, this last year, for which we feel to 
thank Him, and for his blessing that has at-
tended all our labors.  All those that have 
come here came for the purpose of carrying
out the principle of the United Order, and we
have been truly blest and prospered in opening
up farms and making homes in this new coun-
try, and there has been a vast amount of labor
accomplished by so few.  Our numbers are
small but steadily inareasing.  We have a day
and Sunday School well attended, also a Mu-
tual Improvement Association.  We feel that
the Lord has been with us since our coming 
here, and that He will still watch over us.
We have had excellent meetings this winter,
and enjoyed ourselves very much, peace and
union reigns in our midst.  I know that the
nearer we live up to the commandments of the
Lord, the more of his spirit we enjoy, and the
better we feel.  It is the intention of the So-
ciety to take a few numbers of the EXPONENT 
as soon as practicable.
	Praying the Lord to bless all the faithful in
Zion, I remain your sister etc.
		MARY T. WILCOX, Secretary, R. S.


158		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
[From Woman's Words.]
SKETCH OF MRS. SARA J. ANDREWS
SPENCER.

	Sarah J. Andrews Spencer was born in
Savona, Steuben County, N. Y., October 21,
1837. Her father, Dr. Orra Andrews, was
a descendant of worthy ancestors' in Con-
necticut, and her mother, Elizabeth Loom-
is Andrews, belonged to an excellent family
in Yates County, N. Y. Her father was tal-
ented and cultured, but early in his married
life became a victim of intemperance, and
the finer instincts of his nature were thus
perverted. Her mother says, "No wonder
Sara is alive on the woman question. Every
drop of blood in her veins ought to cry out
for justice to women."
	When three years old Sara was taken
away by her father in one of his fits of in-
temperance, and the mother, hard at work,
had scarcely missed the little one from her
side, when a neighbor told her that father
and child were seen on the road to Penn
Yan. The mother hurried to the place
where the child was seen, and learned after
several days, that she had been taken forty
miles away and bound out to a family dur-
ing her minority. In an agony of doubt
and fear, the mother hastened there, deter-
mined to take the child, inside or outside
human laws, and defend her ownership with
her life, if need be. She found the little
one on the porch of the house where she
had been taken, and instantly brought her
away. Her mother wrapped her in warm
clothing and started for the carriage, not
daring to stop until they were out of the
county. From this time the mother, and
the two children whom she had stolen from
legal bondage and held by a higher law of a 
mother's devotion, were protected by the
community in which they lived in Savona,
N. Y.
	At thirteen, Sara removed with her
mother and brother to St. Louis; where she
attended a popular seminary, and was one
of the brightest scholars. At sixteen nec-
essity compelled her to give up graduating
and immediately provide for herself and
mother, and she began to teach in the "Old
Benton." On drawing her salary she indig-
nantly observed that she was paid only one-
third as much as the man who preceded her.
He had only himself to support. She had
been compelled to give up a classical course
to support her mother. She appealed to the
Board of Education for justice—in vain. At
nineteen she became principal of the Mound
female grammar school, the youngest prin-
cipal in the city. In 1863 she went to New
York with letters of introduction to Horace
Greeley and others. Mr. Greeley said, "I
like the way you talk, young lady; you
shall have employment." The next morn-
ing, upon his recommendation, she com-
menced work in the office of the "Scientific
American," one-half of each day, and in

[Column 2]
the afternoons and evenings wrote for two
daily papers and one weekly, doing fourteen
hours intellectual labor each day. At this
time she met and soon after married, De-
cember 26, 1854, Prof. Henry C. Spencer,
whose acquaintance she had formed four
years previously in St. Louis, when she was
principal of the "Mound." He had suc-
ceeded to the Spencerian authorship work,
in the place of his father, the author of the
Spencerian style and system of Penman-
ship. Mrs. Spencer at once assisted her
husband in the literary work of the "Spen-
cerian Key," and has been constantly by his
side in all the active business of life. In
June, 1866, they removed to Washington,
D. C., where they still reside. For twelve
years they have conducted one of the larg-
est and most successful colleges for business
training in the United States.
	"Is it possible you have children of your
own, Mrs. Spencer, and have time to do so
much important work for others?" is fre-
quently asked. "Yes," she answers.
	Instead of regarding the responsibilities
of motherhood as a reason for neglecting
the public welfare, as a devoted mother, she
deems it her highest duty to purify the at-
mosphere her children must breathe. She
does not remember a time since she first
heard of the ballot, and her mother's wish
to possess it, that she did not believe it was
a woman's sacred right.
	In January, 1871, the presentation of a
memorial to Congress against woman suf-
frage, from one thousand women of fashion-
able society, and attacks by these ladies up-
on Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and other advo-
cates of woman's enfranchisement, aroused
Mrs. Spencer's indignation, and she wrote
a series of articles for the daily "National
Republican," entitled "Problems on the
Woman Question, Social, Political and
Scriptural." The inconsistencies, weak-
nesses and follies of some of the women
who feared the demoralization of the ballot
were so graphically contrasted with the self-
sacrifice and heroism of the pioneers of re-
form, that hosts of converts to the cause was
the result.
	They were re-published by the National
Woman's Suffrage Association for general
circulation. Paulina Wright Davis said of
them, "their tender, beautiful, grand sum-
mary of the whole question should be upon
the table of every lady in the land."
	The chief work of her life is in search-
ing out and removing causes of vice, crime,
pauperism and wretchedness. She goes at
any hour of the day or night to give aid
and comfort to poor unfortunates who need
a helping hand, and is ever ready to shelter
the wanderer, the wronged and the outcast,
whom the world too often unites in con-
demning. This has led to similar efforts
in many cities where before no respectable
woman has dared to approach an outcast
even with a kindly word.
	Mrs. Spencer has been a member and of-
ficer of the National Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation for seven years, and is universally
regarded as a tower of strength for that
body at Washington. She watches daily
for all legislation concerning the interests
of women in any State or Territory, and
promptly appears against any measure cal-
culated to defraud or oppress them. She
was a delegate of the National Suffrage As-
sociation to the Cincinnati Republican presi-
dential convention, June 14, 1876, and ad-
dressed the Platform committee in behalf
of a woman suffrage plank in their plat-
form, and on the following morning, upon
motion of Hon. George E. Hoar, of Massa
chusetts, was invited to address the con-
vention; the first instance in the history o-


this country in which a woman ever ad-
dressed a national presidential convention.
	As chairman of the Resident Congres-
sional committee of the National Woman
Suffrage Association, Mrs. Spencer has sent
out within a year thirty-two thousand Six-
teenth Amendment petitions and appeals to
twenty thousand post-office towns in the
United States, and is in correspondence
with associations of women in thirty-five
States. With the later labors of Mrs. Spen-
cer in the Woman's Congress, and before
the several committees of the National Con-
gress, at Washington, most of our readers
are familiar, through the medium of the
daily papers.
	In conclusion, we think that every reader
will find encouragement in this brief histo-
ry of what one woman can accomplish.
With no influential friends at the beginning
of her career, with obstacles meeting her at
every step—before which many a soul has
faltered and failed—she has pressed untir-
ingly forward in her life of usefulness and
lofty endeavor, maintained by the conscious
rectitude of her unfaltering purpose. Let
our young workers take heart. There is no
obstacle too great for the dauntless spirit to
overcome!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		159﻿


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORT.

	SALT LAKE CITY, Feb. 24th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of the 8th Ward held
a special meeting at the Meeting House
Feb. 13, 1878. All the officers of the So-
ciety were present; and by invitation Miss
E. R. Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Phebe
Woodruff, Zina D. Young, and E. S. Tay-
lor; also Bishop Sheets and Counselors.
Meeting conducted in the usual manner by
singing and prayer, etc. Mrs. Horne ad-
dressed the meeting on home manufacture,
the necessity of becoming self-sustaining;
said the saints should be united and sustain
those who are trying to establish home-in-
dustries. Mrs. Woodruff, Young and Tay-
lor made excellent remarks on building
Temples and baptism for the dead, said
that we had much to do and the work must
be done here on earth, and we must be
ready to respond to the calls of the servants
of God. Miss E. R. Snow exhorted the
sisters to faithfulness in all the require-
ments of those placed over them to sustain
home-industries, to do their duty in tem-
poral as well as spiritual things. Said the
Commission Store had done much good,
and wished the sisters to sustain it. Coun-
selors McMurin and Brockbank were pleas-
ed with the remarks of the sisters; felt
that they were doing much good in estab-
lishing home-industries. Bishop Sheets
felt to endorse with the brethren what the
sisters had said, felt to encourage silk-cul-
ture said that the sisters present had given
good advice and counsel on the necessity of
cultivating the mulberry tree.
	The receipts and disbursements for the
year 1877 were read which were as follows:
	Jan 1, 1877, in Treas.......................$	137 77
	Rec'd during year............................	112 95
		Total						250 72
	Disbursed........................................	133 44
	Jan. 1, 1878. Balance on hand........	117 28
	For Wheat Fund..............................	  11 65
	Five cent Temple Fund...................	  23 40
 		Total amount					152 33
President Mrs. Mary A. Leaver was

[Column 2]

pleased with the good instruction of our
sisters; felt to sustain them, and desired
those present to profit by what, they had
heard; felt that we had been blest in hav-
ing a visit from them, felt to thank them
for their good counsel and advice.  The
meeting adjourned and the invited guests
repaired to the Bishop's residence where
they partook of a generous supper by the 
hospitality of the Bishop. Spent a few
hours very agreeably, all seemed to enjoy
the meeting and expressed themselves ben-
efited by the good spirit that prevailed.
Our young ladies hold their meetings regu-
larly which are very interesting; they have
a good attendance and there is a spirit of 
interest awakened with them, which I 
trust will continue.
	May God bless us all and His spirit and 
save us in His Kingdom.
	E. R. FLETCHER,
	S. A. HAWKINS, Sec'ys

	MANTI, Feb. 10, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you the Annual Report of our So-
ciety which is in a more flourishing con-
dition financially than ever before. The
Ladies Store is also very prosperous, and is 
quite a source of revenue to the Society
which is the largest shareholder; the divi-
dends are used to purchase wheat for stor-
ing, or assist in forwarding the public
works.  If the Lord will, it is the inten-
tion of the Presidency of the Society to
build a granary the present year, and in 
due time a Store with a Hall for holding
meetings on the second floor.
	The work on the Temple is steadily pro-
gressing, and will probably be pushed with 
renewed energy in the Spring.
	A good spirit prevails in our meetings,
and those who take an active part in the 
Society are doing much good in the cause
of Zion by relieving the necessities of the 
poor and helping to forward the public works.
	Wishing you continued success in your 
arduous editorial labors, I remain your sis-
ter in the Gospel.
	A. L. Cox, Manti R. S.

	Secretary's Report of Manti R. S., for the 
year ending Feb. 1st, 1878.
Total receipts for that time............$389. 98
	Expenditures.
For the Temple............................	  96. 56
For the Meeting House...............	  92. 42
For the Poor................................	  25. 38
For Woman's Book.....................	  25. 00
For the contingent expenses.......	  42. 99
	Total					282. 35
Balance in cash, wheat and other
	articles at cost value................107. 63
Total amount of wheat stored by R. S.
270 bushels.		A. L. Cox, Sec.

	MINERSVILLE, BEAVER CO.,
		Feb. 23d, 1878
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Society is in a healthy condition, and 
is, we trust, on that grand highways of im-
provement pointed out to us by our beloved
Prophet, Brigham Young, who has passed
behind the veil. Our meetings, which we
hold once a week, are well attended, and a
general good feeling prevails. We issue a
manuscript paper twice a month, the mem-
bers each editing it in turn; most of the
articles are original.  We still retain our
old name, but are waiting patiently for the
authorities to re-organize us and give us a
new one.  We have thirty-three names en-
rolled and keep adding to them from time

[Column 3]

to time. A short time ago, Brother Wil-
liam Fotheringham, of Beaver City, deliv-
ered a most interesting and instructive lec-
ture here, under the auspices of the com-
bined Associations of the young men and 
young ladies of this place; subject, "Man-
ners and Customs of the Hindoos." At its
close a vote of thanks was tendered the
speaker, for the pleasure afforded us. Im-
provement is our motto, and we do desire
to keep pace with our sisters in the onward
march of time, and be united with them in
every good word and work. God grant the
time may come soon when wickedness shall
be swept off the face of the earth, aed Zion
will arise and shine, and her daughters shall
be found worthy of the place and station
prepared for them, if faithful to their cove-
nants.  Praying that this may be the happy
lot of us all, and wishing you continued
success and prosperity, we subscribe our-
selves,
	Yours, &c.,
		MELISSA LEE, President,
		RACHEL MARSHAL, Sec'y,
		LOUISA WEEDEN, Ass't Sec'y


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Dr. Hammond on Sleep —In a recent lecture
on "Sleep," Dr. William A. Hammond, of New
York, said that the brain was at work not only
during every waking moment and in dreams, but
even in the deepest sleep it was employed in stor-
ing up new energies to be dissipated in the fu-
ture. If it were not for the fact that some parts
of the organ had comparative rest while others
were at work, it would soon wear out altogether.
Every pnlsation of the heart, every thought of
the mind destroyed some particle of brain matter,
and were it not for the gradnal building up of
fresh material which was going on at the same
time, it would speedily become a wreck. It was
during sleep that this recuperative process was
most effective; during wakefulness the expendi-
ture of brain force exceeded the accumulation of
new matter by a large proportion. The lecturer,
after defining sleep as due to the diminution of
blood in the brain, cited some curious instances of
its extraordinary power. He described a series
of interesting experiments by himself and others
upon a dog placed under the influence of ether, in
which pieces of the skull were removed, and
sleep proved to be accompanied by an absence of
blood in the vessels of the brain, and wakeful-
ness by the return of the same fluid in large
quantities. Anxiety or other emotions or affec-
tions carried to a morbid extent were more often
the cause of wakefulness than great mental labor,
although the latter, if over-prolonged or repeated
with undue frequency, was equally harmful. As
the capacity for sleep depended upon the amount
of blood in the brain, and that amount was largely
under the control of the individual, there was no
difficulty in so disposing the body or the system
as to invite sleep and overcome the evils of wake-
fulness. Many persons who would feel sleepy in
a chair, would become wide awake on lying down,
simply because of the flow of blood to the head.
For such persons a high pillow, reaching well un-
der the shoulders, would prove beneficial. Oth-
ers, by eating a light and easily digested meal just
before retiring secured the best of repose.


SILVER, WE are told, is the currency
earliest mentioned in Scripture.
	There has been a serious blockade of the
railroad between Ogden and Omaha; all
trains stopped for five days. Snow plows
worked diligently clearing the track, and 
trains have resumed running. About the
time of our going to press the first mail ar-
rived since the 8th inst.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE DUTCH IN HOLLAND.

	The Department of State has received a
report on the social and political condition
of the Dutch from the Minister of the
United States to the Hague. As an illus-
tration of the carefulness and steadiness of
the Dutch, the Minister says that there has
not been a bank failure in Holland during
the last forty years, and that the paper
money of the banks during that time has
been equal to gold. In regard to fire insur-
ance companies, there is no such thing as a
failure on record, and, while the rate of
insurance does not average more than half
of one per cent, the companies are in the
most flourishing condition, realizing twelve
to sixteen per cent. per annum. First class
railroad travel is only one cent per mile,
and yet the roads pay good dividends.
Pilfering officials are scarcely ever heard of,
and when they shock the nation by turning
up they are severely punished and forever
disgraced. No free passes are granted, and
managers and directors have no power to
pass anybody over the roads free. All
must pay the public rates. Dishonesty of
any kind or failure in business means pub-
lic dishonor, and utterly bars the dishonest
from any future public consideration. Four
millions of people live within an area of
20,000 square miles, a fact unprecedented
in any other country, and all appear to be
happy, prosperous, and contented. The
secret of this prosperity lies in the fact that
all live within their income, and that in-
dustry and honesty are principles so firmly
established that their violation is looked
upon as an outrage on the national charac-
teristics.


HAPPINESS—What elevating thoughts
are associated with the word happiness. It
is the aim of individual life. To attain a
degree of happiness amounting to content-
ment is considered worth all the efforts one
can make. To dispense happiness to others
should be one of the loftiest aims of exist-
ence; yet how shamefully this pleasure is
neglected. Selfishness creeps into the hu-
man heart absorbing its better qualities and
making its possessor wretched and unhappy
because the object pursued is controverted
through false means of attainment. If there
is any royal road to happiness it can only
be found by strictly complying with the re-
quirements of duty to God and our fellow-
men. When one learns what this implies
in its fullest sense, having no regrets to
banish, then there is some surety of a hap-
piness which will reach into eternity. We
owe more to others than we are wont to feel
willing to acknowledge.—Emile.


[Column 1]
Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to acc[-]mmodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Sh[-]w and
Saler[-]om to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine: her stock of: Hats made from
the la[-]e[-]t Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Importe[-] Hats and Bonnets, with every-
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment,
at moderate prices.
	Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
and Altered.

GENEALOGICAL!
LATTER-DAY SAINTS who come from the States of
	New England, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania
or Delaware, or whose ancestors were native of either
of those States, who desire to obtain their Genealogies,
could not do better than to employ B. F. Cummings, Jr.,
who proposes to go [-]ast for that purpo[-]e during the
present Winter. Parties interested should send for Cir-
cular, giving terms and full instructions.
		Addr[-]ss,
						B. F. CUMMINGS, JR.,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

[Column 2]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOOK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descriptions.
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
AT
TEASDEL'S.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND ADDRESS—Main Street, over Dr.
Richards' Drug Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
DRY GOODS,
IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
VOL. 6.  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1878.  No. 20.


[For the EXPONENT.
				QUESTIONINGS.

Sweet woman—child, that nestles near my heart,
With downy touch like birdlings in the nest,
What magic came with you to heal the smart
And kindle joy instead within my breast?
Brought low with woman's weakness, here I lie
And gaze upon my treasure bought with pain,
And pity you for woman's destiny,
And long to shield as mothers long in vain.

Life seems so hard to such as we, my love,
An endless round of weakness, toil and pain,
Of deep humiliations, longings vain,
And blind outreachings for the light above.
We love and suffer, daily offer up
Our hopes, our lives, our all that we can give;Self-sacrifice we drain as nectar cup;
For others only we are taught to live.

We're bidden to the last and lowest seats
The Master's servants at His table spread,
And given but fragments of the royal feast,
While with the rarest viands some are fed.
Our brother creatures in their haughty strength
Claim all the higher places for their own,
And say the gentle Master them has sent
To bid us come no nearer to His throne.

They say that from their hands we must receive
The bread of life which they may ask of Him—
Though they may follow Him to love and serve,
We must but love and serve and follow them.
While He rewards His own with wondrous powers,
With honors, kingdoms, crowns and lives divine,
We may have naught; our very lives be theirs,
And even you they'd tell me, are not mine.

Oh, darling! you have lately seen His face
And in His presence felt no diffidence;
Oh, tell! ere you forget or my heart break,
If now you are forever banished thence?
If after we have worn his crown of thorns
And borne, like Him, the cross, with bleeding feet,
To touch our outstretched hands He e'er will scorn,
Or send, not bring, the balm of healing sweet?

May we no longer touch His garment's hem
Without a brother's hand outstretched between?
Will His life-giving voice but quicken them
And leave us sleeping till THEY break our dream?
Is servitude our everlasting doom?
E'en high as man's hopes may we not aspire?
Because we here sit in the lowest room
Will Christ ne'er call us "Daughter, come up higher?"

Your mild, sweet, saintly eyes look into mine,
A slow, rapt smile breaks over your small face,
Your lips keep silence, solemn, sweet, divine,
But in your beatific look I trace
A glad assurance that the lowly Lord
Whose feet the Magdalen might bathe and kiss,
Who gave, not sent, to her His precious word,
Will end the cankering doubts in perfect bliss.
										LU DALTON.


OUR FUTURE LIVES.
	What are our future lives to be? Dwell
long upon this subject, and ponder it well
in your minds my young sisters.  Are we
to be useless, indolent women, mothers of
ignorant, rude, uncouth children?  Or will
we be useful, intelligent, noble-minded wo-
men, mothers of good, bright, noble boys
and girls?  Now, my dear sisters we can be
either, just which we please; just which
we qualify ourselves for; just which we are
capable of becoming and prepare our-
selves for.  If we will lead an indolent life
while we are girls; if we will spend our pre-
cious time in reading trashy novels, things
that we must forget if we ever become
worthy to fill high and holy positions; if
we will not read our Church books and in-
form our minds, obtaining useful knowledge,
we will undoubtedly remain ignorant, and


be inefficient mothers, not worthy of being
the means of bringing noble spirits into
the world; not worthy of the position God
designed for us; in short, not worthy of the
blessings of the priesthood of God.  But, if
on the other hand, we will spend a portion
of our time in reading good books, in stor-
ing our minds with the precious grains of
true knowledge; learn the principles of the
gospel of the Latter-day work; and become
acquainted with everything that tends to
enlighten our minds, or improve our men-
tal faculties we will be able to become use-
ful and intelligent mothers.  We will be
capable of training our children in that way
which will lead them to be men and women
of God, worthy of bearing the title of
Saints.
	Just think of the importance of the train-
ing of these little ones.  How many of us
take this into consideration?  How many
of us ask ourselves, what would I do if I
had a child, toward instilling in its young
mind the truth and wisdom it needs.  Some
will say, ah, well, there is time enough af-
ter we are married to begin to study on
these things.  Now young girls, it is not
going to do us any harm to think upon
this a little, and improve ourselves that we
may not have to account for a useless life.
Think how sweet and innocent the infants
are when they are given to their mothers,
little angels as it were, and how careful par-
ents should be to have them grow up just
as sweet, pure and innocent as it is possible
to develop them.
	It has been truly said many times "edu-
cate the mother, and you will elevate the
children."  Then let us educate ourselves
for a useful life, be humble, prayerful and
God will aid us.
MISS MAY B. EUNO.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	A BILL giving women suitably qualified,
permission to practice before the United
States Supreme Court, was passed in the
House of Representatives, February 21, by
a vote of 169 to 87.—Ex.
	THERE WILL be a Quarterly Conference
of the Association for the Advancement of
Women, held in Washington D. C. Wednes-
day April 10. At this Conference it will be
decided where the Sixth Congress of wo-
men will be held.
	THE ARGUMENTS of the delegates of the
National Woman Suffrage Association be-
fore the Committee on Privileges and Elec-
tions of the United States Senate in behalf
of the Sixteenth Amendment in favor of
Woman Suffrage, have been printed in full
at expense of the government. Also a pro-
test by Mrs. Dahlgren against Woman Suf-
frage.—Ex.
	ON MARCH 2d, the local government of
the province of Quebec, of which Mr. De-
boucherville was Premier, resigned. A
new ministry is forming under the lead of
Mr. Joly. The occasion of this change is
said to be the refusal of the Lieutenant-
Governor to sanction either the new tax
bill or the railway bill. There is great ex-
citement in the city respecting the politi-
cal crisis.

[Column 2]

	MRS. E. G. LEWIS in the March number
of "Woman's Words" in a gracefully writ-
ten article entitled "Ourselves," says:
"Daughters can help themselves by making
lighter the cares of the father and mother
as they journey along over the rugged paths
that lead to the River; and by early ac-
quiring a habit of industry and cheerful-
ness, and a determination to do whatever
may be theirs to do, believing they are
here for some other purpose than to occupy
space.
	SIXTEENTH AMENDMENT IN CONGRESS.
—The vote in the House Committee on the
Judiciary, upon the Sixteenth Amendment
granting Suffrage to women, stood five for
five against the proposition. It is alleged
that three of the opponents approve of in-
vesting women with the ballot, but insist
that such act of sovereignty belongs alone
to the States. The vote shows an immense
advance in the public sentiment. When, in
Congress, the House Judiciary committee
gives a tie vote in favor of Woman Suffrage,
every State Legislature may see how surely
the people are becoming ready to accept
this measure of justice. The States may
lead the way. The people of Massachusetts
are ready to-day. Will the legislature be-
lieve it, and act accordingly.—Ex.
	THE NEWS from England and the conti-
nent of Europe is very conflicting. Dis-
patches of the 27th ult., state that Russia
is understood to have indicated a disposi-
tion to make further concessions to Aus-
tria and some to Roumania, but it is sur-
mised by apprehensions of difference with
England; Germany has for the present
abandoned all idea of issuing invitations
to the Peace Congress. Vienna dispatch-
es of the same date said it was considered
the Congress had failed, and that Russia
must look to her own interest. There is
an opinion expressed by a German and an-
ti-Hungarian press, that by an Anglo-Rus-
sian war, Austria would gain power, as Rus-
sia must pay a high price for Austria's neu-
trality. Ignatieff it is said has arrived at
Vienna, and will commence negotiations at
once.
	THE CONQUEST of New Mexico and Cali-
fornia" is the title of a new book just pub-
lished. The author, P. St. Geo. Cook, of
the U. S. A., is thoroughly acquainted with
his subject having had charge of the troops
who marched across the desert wilds to ob-
tain possession of those two now important
countries. The book contains a map of the
route from Santa Fe to the Pacific Ocean.
It is graphically written in the style of a
Historical and Personal Narative, pub-
lushed by Putman and Sons, New York
City, and contains over 300 pages. We
think this book will be of special interest
to many in this Territory, as the noted
Mormon Battalion as it was termed, figured
conspicuously in that fatiguing and terrible
march. The Book is well worth reading,
and gives much information of the country
and its inhabitants, their manners, customs,
style of warfare etc. Mr. Cook in the close
speaks of the gold discovery by two of the
Mormon soldiers.—For sale at Dwyer's
Book Store, Main Street, price $1,50.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

NORTH JORDAN, SALT LAKE CO.,
Jan. 3d, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 Minutes of the meeting of the Young
Ladies' Improvement Association, held at
North Jordan Ward, Mrs. Mary A. Haigh
presiding.  Meeting commenced with usual
exercises; after which Counselor Eliza Ben-
nion stated that she was happy to meet
with so many of her young sisters, but felt
her inefficiency to instruct them in the
things pertaining to the kingdom of God.
She advised the girls not to speak evil of
one another, but try to obtain the confidence
of the sisters, and by their good actions to
retain it.  Alice Harker felt her incapabili-
ty of fully expressing her gratitude for the
innumerable blessings she had received
during the past year.  She realized that our
actions were not so commendable as they
might be, but thought it our duty individ-
ually and collectively to meet together and
make our Association as interesting as pos-
sible.  Select reading by Miss Isabella Web-
ster, entitled, "A Voice from Dixie Land."
	Sister Angeline Spencer bore testimony
to the goodness of God; felt that if we had
the spirit of this work our meetings would
not lack interest, and stated that we ought
not to neglect our meetings, for, by attend-
ing them, we obtain spiritual blessings,
which are essential to our life and salvation.
Sister Eliza Spencer, President of the Re-
lief Society, gave some very excellent ad-
vice to the young sisters, among which
were some instructive remarks on storing
grain, and sericulture.  She was much
pleased at the advancement the young la-
dies were making, and realized that we
were progressing favorably; advised the 
young ladies to obtain a testimony for them-
selves that this was the true Church, and
not rely upon the testimony  of others.  Her
hope of heaven and future life were far
dearer than all earthly blessings.
 Sister Moses spoke on the law of Celestial
Marriage, and advised the young sisters not
to speak a disrespectful word of this holy
principle, but if they did not understand it,
to pray to the Lord for wisdom, and He
would reward them by answering their pe-
titions.  Recitation by Alvina Harker, en-
titled "Hate of the Bowl."  Remarks were
made by other sisters, and a good spirit pre-
vailed.  Meeting closed by singing and
benediction.
MARY A. HAIGH, President.
HATTIE HARKER, Secretary.
VIRGIN CITY, KANE CO., Feb., 18, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
This is a small settlement with not
more than about  thirty families in all.  Our
people are very industrious and most of
them are living their religion.  Our Relief
Society meet once in two weeks.  We em-
ploy our minds and hands: to do good is our
motto. We make quilts and have donated
some of them to the Temple at St. George,
and Manti.  We assist the poor and the 
needy, the sick and the afflicted, for we de-
sire to do what is required of us knowing,
the Lord loveth the cheerful giver.  We
try to cultivate a spirit of oneness, and live
agreeable one with another.  Our Bishop
often meets with us and speaks very com-
forting words to us, and tells us that we are
a great help to him etc.  The Teachers vis-
it the members of the ward, and give in
their reports once a month, and that creates
a good feeling with us.  We read in our
meetings the EXPONENT and the Women
of Mormondom.  We are all in favor of 
laying up grain, although there is but little
raised here.  We have procured a few
bushels of wheat and our Bishop has given
us a bin in the Store-house to put it in, and
we expect to keep adding more.  We have
an interest in the factory at Washington, an
interest in the Co-op Store and also in the
sheep herd.  W[-] procured some silk-worm
eggs last spring and raised quite a few
worms, and have some cocoons on hand but
do not know anything as yet about reeling
or spinning the silk, but intend to learn as
soon as possible.  We take the EXPONENT
and are pleased with it.
	Wishing success to all your endeavors,
we remain your sisters, etc.
ELLEN PARKER, Pres't.
ELIZABETH D. GARDNER, Sec'y.

KANARRA, March 7, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 The Relief Society of this place being
desirous of recognition with other Societies,
offer a few items for publication.  Our So-
ciety was organized December 14, 1875, by
Bishop Lorenzo W. Roundy.  Officers elect-
ed and sustained:
Susanna Roundy, President.
Sophia Parker,        Counselors.
Mary Jane Perkins,
Lennie Allen, Secretary.
Deney Berry, Assistant Secretary.
Priscilla Roundy, Treasurer.
 We have also six Teachers.  We were
prospering, until the 24th of May, 1876,
when the sad accident of my dear husband
being drowned in the Colorado River cast a
gloom over all of us, and over the whole
town.  He was a kind husband, a loving
father, and O! how we miss him.  The
same summer we buried three grand-chil-
dren, and on April 19, 1877, Mary Jane
Perkins died of heart disease.  She was
the wife  of William I. and Betsey Willis,
aged thirty-five years.  She was one of my
Counselors, and was taken from our midst;
she was a good woman in our Society, was
on hand for anything that she could do, and
she was beloved of all who knew her, for 
the integrity of her heart.  She was one of
the working-bees of the hive of Deseret,
and we miss her very much in our Society.
No language can express my feelings when
I heard of her death.
 We are trying to do all we can for this
kingdom; we hold our meetings regularly
once in two weeks; there are but few at-
tend, but they are willing to do all they can.
We have made several quilts, and fifty or
sixty yards of carpet are ready to weave;
we have also some lace and tidies on hand,
and some money.  Last spring we set out
three hundred mulberry cuttings, but only
about a hundred lived; the water is so
scarce we could not get sufficient to water
them. 
	We have had a very disagreeable winter,
and there are a great many people sick; our
Secretaries are both ill, and have been all
winter, though they are getting better now;
when they recover we will send a list of all
we have done for the Temple and for the
poor. They keep strict account of all that
is done.  It is hard for us to store up grain
here, we cannot raise half what we use.
If we could make anything to sell for wheat
we would be glad to do so and store some
up here.  We beg an interest in the sisters'
prayers, that we may have strength to do
our duty.  We feel happy that we have
been working for the good of Zion.  We
feel well as a Society, and wish at all times
to be dictated by the Spirit of God, that
our efforts may prove successful.  Your
sister, &c.,
SUSANNA ROUNDY, Pres't.
CHESTER, March 10, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
Being a newly organized branch of the 
Relief Society, we thought a word from us
would not be out of place.  This small
branch was organized January 13, 1876,
with the following sisters as officers:
Sarepta C. Cowles, President.
Lucy Allred,                          Counselors.
Emma Heyward,
Hettie Allred, Secretary.
Annie Maria Madsen, Treasurer.
	We have eighteen members enrolled;
we meet once a month, and our meetings
are well attended considering the scattered
condition of our settlement; the sisters ap-
pear to enjoy meeting together and speak-
ing words of encouragement to each other
of the great work in which they are en-
gaged, and manifest a willingness to do
good by throwing in their mites, to assist
in starting a work which we hope will
prove a benefit and blessing in some future
day.  There appears to be a feeling of one-
ness and lenity one toward the other; we
desire to be one with our sisters of the
many branches of Relief Society in striv-
ing to carry out the instruction which we
receive from those who are placed at our
head to make our duties plain unto us.  We
desire an interest in the prayers of all
faithful Latter-day Saints that we may en-
dure to the end, and obtain the blessings
that are in store for the faithful, which is
the prayer of your sister and co-worker in
the Gospel, HETTIE ALLRED,
                                         Secretary.
SUGAR HOUSE WARD,
March 14, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
Brief report of a meeting of the Relief
Society, held in the Society Hall, Jan. 2d,
1878.  President Mrs. S. A. Gibson, presid-
ing.  After the usual exercises of singing
and prayer, the Financial report was read
for the year ending December 4, 1877:
Donations received.......................... $88. 25
Proceeds of Sister's Party, for New
Hall.................................................. 48. 75
                              --------
Total                                                 137. 00
Disbursements--To Temple fund.      28. 50
To Library....................................      21. 50
To plastering Sister Hall.............       25. 00
Blinds, stoves, chairs, lumber for 
seats............................................       25. 00
To the Silk Association.............. 2. 00
To the Poor................................. 25. 00
Cash on hand............................. 10. 00
                                  -----------
Total                                               137. 00
Grain, 34 bushels......................       34. 00
Much good instruction was given by
Bishop Appollos Driggs and his Counselor,
Brother E. Eldrege; they urged the sisters
to faithfulness and good works.  Said the 
mission of the sisters was very important;
counseled them to be diligent in the stor-
ing of grain for Zion.  Spoke upon the 
"signs of the times," and urged us to live
as becometh Saints of God.
Hoping our little paper, the EXPONENT,
may do much good, yours respectfully,
SARAH WHEELER, Secretary.


SINCERE friendship makes no loud boasts
but manifests itself by an eloquence which
exquisitely appeals to the soul.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		163


For the EXPONENT.
		MEMORY AND HOPE.

	O Memory, sweet memory!
		Come thou and sit beside me here.
	Is there no scene, or face, or tale,
		Your faithful pages can unveil;
	Wherein as in a mirror clear,
		I see my past sweet Memory?

	Hast thou forgot thine early home,
		Within the crescent Golden Gate;
	The gothic cottage, the oak trees
		With beards of moss swung to the breeze;
	The heath where sunset lingered late,
		And o'er the white doves floated home?

	Hast thou forgot that garden rare,
		With drooping lilacs, clinging vines;
	The marble vases latticed seat,
		The mirror-pond, the fern leaves sweet;
	The spell, while twilight stars did shine
		O'er shades that wrapt its beauty rare?

	Hast thou forgot those pictured halls,
		The rooms where music trembled low;
	And noble men and women fair,
		Their presence, beauty, lending there,
	Made life like dream-life, while came slow
		The steps of night within those halls?

	Hast thou forgot how Ocean's hymn,
		Uprose while sounds of daylight died;
	Calling ye round the mother's chair,
		Where ye two sisters knelt in prayer?
	Seeing last, her face thy couch beside,
		And last in dreaming cars, her hymn

	O Memory! sweet Memory!
		How sad the vision thou hast stirred!
	No more on earth, her face I see,
		Nor sister fair, who knelt with me,
	Where heaven was taught in every word;
		Nay, read no more, sweet Memory.
	Once, in the home by shadows thronged,
		Since our loved parents passed away;
	We, turning treasured pages o'er,
		Together tried to sing once more
	The music of departed days;
		But faltering voices checked the song.

	O! thou dear friend, sweet Memory,
		What He withholds, let us resign.
	Come thou, dear Hope, whose gentle speech,
		The Father's love, and wisdom teach,
	Illume with calm this heart of mine,
		To weep no more, with Memory.
					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
S. L. City, 1878.


[Column 1]

QUARTERLY CONFERENCE.

OF SALT LAKE CO. RELIEF SOCIETY.

	The First Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Salt Lake County was held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, on Satur-
day, the 23d of March, 1878.
	President John Taylor, President A. M.
Cannon, President Mrs. M. I. Horne, her
Counselors, Mrs. E. S. Taylor and Mrs. S. L.
Heywood, Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Z. D. Young
and the majority of the Presidents of the Relief
Society of Salt Lake Co., occupying the stand
and platform. After the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, the Secretary read the re-
ports. There were thirty two reports read,
giving a statistical and financial account of
the condition and proceedings of all the
branches of the Relief Society in the County-
excepting East Mill Creek and Fort Herriman,
their labors and their advancement from the
date of their organization to March, 1878. The
donations received have amounted to upwards
of $50,000. When the full report to present be
fore the Annual Conference is compiled, a copy
will be sent to the Exponent, for the benefit
and instruction of its readers.
	After the reading of the reports, Mrs. Horne
said "I have been very much pleased in hear-
ing the reports; it is a great proof to me of the
energy and perseverance of the members of
the Relief Societies. I will not take up your

[Column 2]
time, as we have President Taylor and Presi-
dent Cannon with us, and would like to hear
from them."
	President Cannon:" While hearing the re-
ports read from the different Societies. I felt
very strongly the influence the Relief Societies
are exercising with the people. * * * We
are to be careful what impressions we make on
our children. Sisters, be sure and let them
understand you fulfill your duties and obliga-
tions to your God and to your religion. * *
I expect to have read, at the next Conference,
the amounts donated by the Relief Societies to
the poor, to Temples, to the Emigration Fund,
to purchasing grain, to buildings, to schooling
children whose parents are not able to do so,
&c. I pray that the blessing of the Lord may
rest upon your endeavors to do good."
	President John Taylor: "I appreciate the
acts and operations of the sisters. Your feel-
ing, spirit and desire is to do right, and to be
helps to your husbands and to the Priesthood
here on the earth. At times it seems we are
unable to do much, yet the Lord gives us
power to do that which He requires at our
hands. It is required of the Elders to send the
Gospel to the nations, then to gather the hon-
est in heart to Zion, then to organize and
strengthen her Stakes. Moreover, the man is
not without the woman, neither the woman
without the man in the Lord, and while we
are attending to outside affairs, earning a liv-
ing and other duties, the women are attending
to their duties, and the sisters are really doing
as much good in their spheres as the men do in
theirs. Affairs in Zion seem to be progressing;
it is not now as it was some years ago. Some-
times we meet with crowds of women, as we
do here to-day; there were not so many
back in Nauvoo; sometimes we meet with
crowds of Bishops: some time ago there were
but few Bishops, now there are about two hun-
dred and fifty. These organizations all tend
to help to roll on the work of God upon the
earth. Your services, sisters, are just as neces-
sary for the furtherance of the work as those
of the brethren. We are all operating togeth-
er for the interest of the Kingdom of God on
the earth. You are acting in the silk business
just as faithfully as the men are in their sphere.
	One great principle that we should study is
how to elevate ourselves; to be polite to each
other in all our acts; to be honest and true to
one another. With the Almighty helping us,
we should take a course to elevate mankind.
We should be courteous to each other, and try
to approximate to that state of perfection we
are all aiming for. It would not be amiss to
set a good example before our children, and
the sisters to be good examples to their hus-
bands; but let all that we do, be done with an
eye single to the glory of God.
	"We need the mercy and the grace of God
all the way through. If it was not for God's
mercy, Satan's power is so great we could not
accomplish much. We ought to instill into
our children the principles of the Gospel, and
teach them to live in obedience to the princi-
ples of truth and righteousness.
	"We may call on some of the men to go on
missions; sisters, don't you try to hinder them,
but help all you can; we want to feel that we
are bound together in indissoluble ties that
cannot be broken. Call on the Lord and He
will hear your prayers; and when we get
through we will meet the hosts of the mighty
and good that are gone before.
	"Help the poor and afflicted all you can.
Pray for them, give them a little flour, a little
butter, sugar, meat, and other necessary things
that will be for their good and comfort.
	"May God bless you, your President, and
Presidents, your children, your families, and

[Column 3]

everything pertaining to you, that you may be
saved in the Celestial Kingdom of our God.
Amen."
	Sung, Doxology.	Benediction by Elder A.
M. Cannon.	ELIZABETH HOWARD,
	Secretary.


THE LUTTRELL BILL.

	This Bill which proposes disfranchising
the women of Utah is one of the anomalies
of to-day. We fully believe there are fair-
minded men enough in our Congress to de-
feat the passage of so flagrant an outrage.
Abraham Lincoln once said to his advisors,
"I fear you do not fully comprehend the
danger of abridging the liberties of the
people." This age is too far advanced in
enlightenment to tolerate the wresting the
few admitted rights that women are just
learning to appreciate and judiciously ex-
ercise. The ballot is woman's as well as
man's Ancestral bequest; her mind grasps
the condition and wrestles with the falsely
forged barriers raised by force of might,
and held with apparently a Napoleonic
grasp. Yet in the face of traditionary in-
tolerance, and opposing Self-will, woman's
political fetters are loosening throughout all
nations. This is most perceptible in Amer-
ica, the native soil of freedom and equal
rights. The wheels of progress may be,
are sure to be clogged by dead-wood from
time to time, but "Our cause is just" and
justice and right will prevail.	S. M. K.


GOSSIP.

	I have been wanting to write a piece for
your paper a long time, but have never set
my mind to it until now. I have chosen
for my subject Gossip. What good does
gossiping do those who practice it? No
good whatever, but injures both the charac-
ter of the one who gossips, and the charac-
ter of the persons of whom evil is spoken.
For instance, we hear some very bad re-
port of one of our friends, and the first per-
son we see or meet, we will tell them this
story that we have heard, and they will at
once believe every word of it, and per-
chance they will go and tell it to some of
their friends, and it will spread in this way
until it gets circulated all over and round
about, and perhaps there is not a word of
truth in it; and when that person hears of
it to whom it pertains, they will feel very
bad about it, and if they can find out the
person who started such a report, it will
cause a hatred between them which can
never afterwards be overcome, and they
will be enemies instead of friends. If all
take that course it will cause a disunion in-
stead of a union. If we all desire to be
friends, sisters and brothers, we must com-
mence at once and stop gossiping.
			MISS HANNAH M. NIXON.
	St. George, Feb. 28th, 1878.


HURRY AND DISPATCH.—No two things
differ more than hurry and dispatch. Hurry
is the mark of a weak mind; dispatch of a
strong one. A weak man in office, like a
squirrel in a cage, is laboring eternally, but
to no purpose, and is in constant motion
without getting on a jot. Like a turnstile,
he is in everybody's way, but stops nobody.
He talks a great deal, but says very little.
He looks into everything, but sees into
nothing. He has a hundred irons in the
fire, but very few of them are hot, and with
those few that are he only burns his fingers.


164
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a. m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. APRIL. 1, 1878.


[Column 1]
PRACTICAL CAPABILITIES.

	Whatever tends to a better preparation for
the duties of actual life should be considered
p[-]rt and parcel of one's education. As indi-
viduals filling up an existence here in this
probation, it should be the aim to adapt one's
self to circumstances in such a way as to ren-
der life enjoyable in the fulfillment of its real
duties and obligations. Education does not
depend upon one's advantages always. In
many instances persons have attained to emi-
nence, who have not even had the opportunity
of being taught the simple rudiments of their
native language when young. To be sure
learning properly applied is a great lever
towards progress, and every child who can be
instructed while young should comprehend
and appreciate the advantages accruing from
knowledge derived from books. But there are
experiences that call out capabilities, and exi-
gencies which bring into action powers and
faculties which were previously hidden from
their po[-]sessor. A great proportion of man
and womankind are destitute of that moral
propelling force which is necessary to bring
into practical use the best and most useful at-
tributes of their natures; but when physically
necessitated they are compelled to do, and find
often a new and rare pleasure and satisfaction
in their effectual efforts in their own behalf.
	Men, generally speaking, believe themselyes
capable of practical work, but women, as a
class, have not as yet comprehended their
powers in this respect. They are capable of
much more and higher work than is generally
supposed, and were it possible to convince them
of the fact, and would they themselves, by
their own volition, develop the faculties given
them, how much broader would be their views,
how much wider their range of thought, how
much higher and nobler their aims in life, how
much truer their conception of God and His
works.
	"I want to be useful in my day and genera-
tion upon the earth," is the burden of many a
song uttered by the sisters in this Church, but
immediately followed, in many cases, by
"What can I do?" Every one can do some-
thing, if they will seek to develop their capa-
bilities and put them into practical use. But
in many instances it is only "a refrain," they
will not arouse themselves; their desires may
be all right, but they are totally inactive and
parasitical, instead of energetic and self-re-
liant, and suffer themselves to drift along in
the narrow groove of narrow minds, without
the power, seemingly, to burst the nutshell
and resolve their desires into systematic action.
	There is a great field of labor before this peo-
ple, there is need of efficient help, and all who
will lend their best endeavors for the promo-

[Column 2]
tion of the good of the human family may
find an ample range for their labors. Suppos-
ing there should be some failures, there is
some benefit derived even from these: they
bring out other thoughts and plans of action,
and cause one to make more careful, or strong-
er exertions in future attempts.
	It is terrible to see young girls who could
acquaint themselves with the true science of
living, fret and whine away their existence
given them for such a glorious purpose, because
God has not given them wealth to luxuriate
in. They become chronically morbid, because
they lack the energy to develop their own ca-
pabilities.
	In the cultivation of one's powers and at-
tributes there are abundant sources of pleasure,
which those never know who are content to
drift on from day to day, without any purpose
but to kill time.
	Girls cannot be too well developed, in body
or mind, to fit them to fill the responsible po-
sitions for which nature designed them. They
cannot be too well informed. Thousands of
them bring to their own home, when they en-
ter into the marriage relation, a ruined consti-
tution, a peevish temper and a dwarfish mind,
for want of a proper care of their health and
cultivation of their powers. Their habits are
not consistent with the laws of nature, "they
must havo a good time," which often means,
with them, an undue amount of unhealthy
recreation, tight lacing, tight shoes, a style of
dress in which health has no consideration,
rambling and desultory thoughts, and a "don't
carishness" in general. Such girls are not
very likely to take household cares cheerfully,
and they are totally unprepared for the glori-
ous crown of motherhood.
	If it were possible to influence the "Daugh-
ters of Zion" to comprehend the necessity of
developing all their good attributes, and ap-
plying their hearts to wisdom, concentrating
their energies to some settled purpose to bene-
fit themselves, their parents and others, in-
stead of wasting their precious moments in
frivolity and nonsense, how grand and elevat-
ing might be the result. How happy, then,
might be many a home that is now cheerless
and desolate; how buoyant and light many a
heart that is now sad. Gir's, you who live for
pleasure, and find it a phantom, begin and dis-
cipline yourselves into habits of industry and
true economy of time and means. Be active
and energetic in performing your duties, how-
ever trivial they may seem; read good books,
those that will inspire you with noble thoughts,
and enlarge your mental capacities, go out in-
to the air and sunshine, instead of moping in
close, dark rooms, lest the wind should brown
your complexion. There is a relief to the
wearied mind and body, that one finds in the
freedom of the woods and fields, that is better
comprehended than expressed. Women would
be better able to combat with the trials, wor-
ries and cares of life, if they let into their
houses more of God's glorious sunshine, if they
breathed more of the pure air of heaven out-
side their dwellings. Walk or ride every day in
the open air—it is better for you than medicine.
Brace up the nervous system and stimulate the
energies by these simple, invigorating meth-
ods, instead-of cultivating morbid feelings
and harping upon trials and sacrifices, or
drawing out all the vitality of others to help
support the burden of life. There are many
lessons yet to be learned in the great experi-
ence of life, which require diligence and ener-
getic action, and let us sisters reason together,
and endeavor to understand wherein our high-
est duty lies, and be faithful in the perform-
ance thereof.
[handwritten] E. B. Wells.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	NOTICE HAS been given through the "Dese-
ret News" by Elder John Taylor, President of
the Council of the Twelve Apostles, that the
Forty-eighth Annual Conference of the Church
of Jesus Christ will convene in the large Tab-
ernacle in this city, on Saturday, the 6th of
April, at 10 o'clock a, m.
	ARTICLES OF FAITH.—The cards containing
the articles of Faith, which have recently been
prepared for the use of Latter-day Saint Sun-
day Schools, are for sale at the Deseret News
Office. These have been carefully arranged to
give correct ideas of the principles of the
Church in a few short, simple paragraphs,
which little children can very readily learn by
heart. At the Commission Store for Home
Manufactures they keep for sale quantities of
these cards, just a suitable size to put into a
letter; price, 50 cents per hundred. Persons
who are writing letters to relatives, friends, or
acquaintances, should supply themselves with
these cards, and thus distribute them abroad.
They may be "like bread cast upon the wa-
ters."
	THROUGH COURTESY of the editor, Elder A.
Milton Musser, we have received and perused
the pamphlet entitled "Fruits of Mormonism,"
by "non-Mormon" witnesses. This little
book, containing only thirty-five pages, will
give briefly much correct information con-
cerning this people, upon many points which
need elucidating intelligently to strangers.
Testimonies of many educated and refined
people, to the honesty, industry, frugality,
progress and untiring endurance of this people,
are given by the author in their own words,
from their sketches, lectures, addresses, &c.,
which cannot be contradicted. Elder Musser
has also concisely given, in the closing pages,
such statistical, geological, political and other
general information of the condition of the
Territory and its resources as cannot fail to
make an impression for good, showing as it
does the exertions past, present and for the fu-
ture promotion of morality and everything cal-
culated to elevate and improve the condition
of mankind. For sale at the Deseret News
Office; 25 cents per copy. These pamphlets
should be widely distributed.
	THE YOUNG Ladies' M. I. A. of the Thir-
teenth Ward had a re-union on Thursday,
March 14, at the residence of their President,
Mrs. Elizabeth Thomas. A good spirit pervad-
ed the assembly. An essay on Charity, by one
of the young lady Counselors, and some exer-
cises in singing and reading were very credita-
bly rendered. Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. P.
Woodruff, Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. R. R. Grant,
Miss Belle Clayton, Mrs. L. Greene Richards
and others made suggestive and happy re-
marks, calculated to encourage and aid the girls
in their march of improvement. The repast
prepared by the young sisters was excellent,
and the smiling and joyous faces of these
young and beautiful girls shed a radiance of
light and an influence of good feeling over the
company, which happified the occasion. These
re unions among the young girls are calculated
to disseminate a good spirit and unite their
sympathies and energies.
	THE EIGHTEENTH Ward Relief Society,
which has been only recently organized, met
at the Lion House on Wednesday, March 27,
for a social entertainment. The afternoon was
spent in cheerful conversation for mutual bene-
fit, and at seven all sat down to a bountiful
supper. After partaking of the good things
provided by the sisters for the occasion, all ad-


journed again to the large parlor, and President
Joseph Young made some eloquent and touch-
ing remarks upon the life, character and labors
of his beloved brother Brigham Young; also
the work of the Latter-days and the glory
awaiting the Saints who endure to the end.
Counselor D. H. Wells by invitation of the 
President, Miss E. R. Snow, also spoke feel-
ingly of the many associations and tender remi-
niscences which had been called up by coming
into the house of the departed prophet and
brother, who had been so many years the es-
teemed President of the Church. Alluded to
the brethren of the Quorum of the First
Presidency who had passed away—Willard
Richards, Jedediah M. Grant, Heber C. Kim-
ball and George A. Smith, now followed by
their leader and beloved bro her, Brigham
Young. Hymns were sung by Prof. Thomas
and wife, in which the assembly joined. The
meeting was a pleasant one, and a goodly por-
tion of the Spirit of God rested upon all.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		165


PROVO, March 21.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Being often in receipt of letters from various
parts of the Territory, concerning the culture
and manipulation of the silk-worm, 'tis my
intention to publish, from week to week, in
the "News," prior to the time of attending
the same.		D. GRAVES.


[Column 1]
OBITUARIES.

	Sister Jane Miles, wife of Edwin R. Miles,
departed this life March 14th, in her 38th year,
after a few days illness, leaving a husband and
children to mourn her loss. Sister Miles was
much beloved and respected by all who knew
her, faithful in her duties as wife and mother.
She has spent her whole life in this Church,
and lived and died a faithful Latter-day Saint,
much esteemed and beloved. It can be truly
said of her, she rests in peace, in sure and cer-
tain hope of a glorious resurrection with the
just.				MARTHA WILLIAMS.
	Smithfield, Cache Co., March 19, 1878.

	Our beloved sister, Cecelia Peterson, depart-
ed this life Friday, Feb. 22d, after a lingering
illness of four months. She died as she had
lived a faithful Latter-day Saint, and true to
every principle of the Gospel as it was presented
to her. She has been a member of the Relief
Society since its organization, in 1868, and a
Teacher; was ever faithful to her duties, and
always on hand and ready to help whenever
she was called upon. Her sufferings have been
great for a long time: she died of dropsy. Her
faith in the ordinance of laying on of hands
was steadfast to the last. She was one of the
first to enter into the business of sericulture
and was most successful. In Sister Peterson
we have lost a faithful member and an earnest
and indefatigable worker. She leaves a sor-
rowing husband to mourn her loss, with whom
we deeply sympathize.
	She was aged 64 years, and was a native of
Denmark.				M. F. C. MORRISON.
	Mt. Pleasant, Feb. 26, 1878.

						For the EXPONENT,
	Died, at Lake Town, Rich Co., Sunday,
March 17, 1878, Eveline, beloved wife of Jo-
seph G. Williams, and daughter of Willard
and Rosamond F. Green, leaving a baby three
weeks old, and two little girls, besides a large
circle of relatives and friends to deplore her
loss. She died in full faith of a glorious resur-
rection with the Saints.
						E. L. CROWTHER.

[Column 2]
	Died, at her residence with her mother, in
the 14th Ward, Salt Lake City, on Monday the
11th inst., Sister Laura S. Richards, daughter
of Samuel and Maria Snyder, and wife of El-
der F. D. Richards, aged 42 years, 1 month,
and 26 days.
	Deceased was born in Camden, East Upper
Canada, and emigrated to the United States
with her father's family in 1840, who pursu-
ing their journey as health and means permit-
ted, located with the gathering Saints in Han-
cock County, Illinois, in 1841.
	In 1846, with the general exodus of the
Saints, they journeyed to Winter Quarters,
where Sister Laura suffered long and severely
from that terrible complaint which consigned
so many of its victims to the grave in that
place, and from which she barely escaped but
never recovered from the terrible consequences
of that illness to know a day's health after.
	In all her afflictions she was dutiful, faithful
and devoted, whether as a daughter, a wife; or
a mother to her only child.
	The few last years of her life were a period of
continual suffering, which she bore with saint-
ly patience and resignation without a murmur,
and looking forward with pleasing anticipation
to the happy release that awaited her, after
having come up through much tribulation,
and in the blessed assurance that her garments
were made white by the blood of the Lamb.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
SCRIPTURE WOMEN.

BY HANNAH T. KING.
[continued.]

	RUTH AND NAOMI.—These two most
lovely and exemplary characters, can never
be separated in time or in eternity. The
history of Ruth ought to be read and stud-
ied by all young girls, and indeed even ma-
ture characters must be edified by the study
of her purity and devotion. Naomi was
her mother-in-law, she having been left a
widow with two sons, Ruth being the wife
of one of them, but soon both the young
men died, and their young widows then
gave fond affection to the mother of their
loved ones, she also loved them very much;
but after a little while, Naomi feeling be-
reft and desolate, resolved to return to the
land of Judah, and advised her daughters-
in-law to remain each in the house of her
husband. But they wept bitterly at the
thought of parting with the mother of their
beloved husbands, and felt they could not
leave her, but she used all her own sweet
logic, full of beautiful principle, that at
last, weeping bitterly, and kissing her af-
fectionately, Orpah consented to do as she
wished her, and she bade her farewell; but
the love and devotion of Ruth would not
allow her to listen to her words, but cling-
ing to her she sobbed forth "Entreat me
not to leave thee, or to return from follow-
ing thee, for whither thou goest, I will go,
and where thou lodgest, I will lodge; thy
people shall be my people, and thy God my
God; where thou diest, there will I be bu-
ried; the Lord do so to me and more also, if
aught but death part thee and me." Then
Naomi could not resist her love, and devo-
tion to herself; and permitted her to ac-
company her, and they went and dwelt in
Bethlehem, in the house of Naomi. And
Ruth was obedient to her counsel like a
child, and they were received by a very
rich man, and treated with kindness and
consideration, he was a relative of Naomi's
and in due time he took Ruth as his wife

[Column 2]

according to the law of their faith, and
through that lineage, in after years, came
the Savior of the world.
	Now we come to Hannah, a woman re-
markably blest of the Lord, she was living
in plural marriage and was beloved and es-
teemed by her husband, but she had no
child, while the other wife had several; and
"they went up out of the city early to wor-
ship, and to sacrifice unto the Lord of
Hosts in Shiloh," and while there she vow-
ed to the Lord, that if He would give her
a son, she would dedicate him from his
birth to His service all the days of his life!
and the Lord heard and granted her prayer;
and in due time Samuel was born, and he
was reared in the Temple of the Lord, his
character is without spot or blemish, no
other in the sacred Scriptures, (except the
Savior) can be so spoken of; and she carried
him up to the Temple and said, "I have
lent him to the Lord, as long as he liveth,"
and he worshipped the Lord there.
	Abigail next appears, and though her his-
tory takes up only half a chapter, it is very
full and expressive. Her husband was a
churlish and penurious man, and a drunk-
ard, and rudely refused David, the champi-
on of the armies of Israel, supplies for his
starving soldiers, and David determined to
take by force of armies, that which he had
in all courtesy solicited, and had been re-
fused; Abigail being apprized of his inten-
tion, calls her servants and orders them to
collect a handsome and suitable present for
the generalissimo, and taking five of her
maidens to accompany her, sets out for the
Camp of Israel, and when she saw David
she alighted from her mule, making the
eastern salaam of bowing her face to the
ground." Her language is womanly and
beautiful, yet vigorous and prophetic; and
David was so charmed by her modest elo-
quence, that he accepted her present for his
needy soldiers and cancels the order he had
issued, and the prepartion he had made to
wrest by force from Nabal, that which he
had so churlishly refused, and David can-
didly told Abigail that the Lord had sent
her to him to prevent him shedding the
blood of her household, and bid her go in
peace to her house "see I have hearkened
to thy voice, and accepted thy peace off-
ring."
	It seems we ought not to pass over Mi-
chal the daughter of King Saul whom he
gave to David for a wife, and it appears
she was true and faithful for a time, and
even at one time, by a stratagem, saved the
life of David, when her mad father had de-
termined to destroy him. But in after
times when David had passed through much
trial and persecution, and become king,
and was returning home in triumph, bring-
ing with him the ark of the Lord, had of-
fered sacrifices to the Lord in gratitude and
in the joy of his heart "danced before the
ark; Michal looked out of a window and
despised him, and as he returned to bless
his household, Michal came out to meet
him," and spoke sneeringly and sarcastic-
ally to him, and David rebuked her in high-
toned language,and it appears she was never
again his wife; there is a mystery about all
this, that Scripture has not seen fit to eluci-
date, but it seems she was a small-minded
woman thongh a kings daughter, and was
utterly incapable of appreciating her noble
husband; jealousy was probably a powerful
ingredient in her composition and charac-
ter, but silence is probably the most charac-
ter, but silence is probably the most charit-
able commentary, and where doubt exists
all should have the benefit of it, that is
English Law and it is a righteous one.
THE QUEEN OF SHEBA.—Thirteen ver-
ses only, tell the history of her renowned


visit to King Solomon, she came to see and
hear his wisdom his grandeur, and his
greatness; she had been told of it in her
own country but could not believe it, but
she closes her exclamations of surprise and
wonder by saying "The half was not told
me! Happy are the men, happy are these
thy servants who stand continually before
thee and hear thy wisdom," and they ex-
changed very precious gifts, and she re-
turned rejoicing to her own land. She was
appreciative and was desirious of adding to
her own mind knowledge and wisdom.
How few possess this faculty, a small mind
never, the truly great are ever humble and 
childlike, ever ready to learn.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SHALL MARRIED WOMEN TEACH?

	This is a question just now exciting some
discussion, and is one of sufficient import-
ance to render it worthy the study of the 
thoughtful educator. The decision must
rest solely on one point—are married wo-
men competent teachers?
	Now this is, after all, the only basis upon
which any man or woman should be em-
ployed in a work of such vital and eternal
value as teaching. There are gentlemen—
chivalrous, kind, sympathetic, blessings up-
on them! whose keen insight penetrates in-
to the life of a woman struggling alone in 
the world, and whose generous sympathies
would extend to her position and salary in
the educational field, on the plea—not of
her ability, but of her need, of the work.
	And these say "If a woman is prosperously
married, if she has found strong and tender
hands to smooth for her all the rough places
of life, then give her position to one who is
suffering for the financial profits it offers."
	This conclusion is in a material sense hu-
mane and considerate, but its premiscs are
utterly false. Fitness for the work is the
only basis upon which teachers should be
employed. If financial need were the only
point to determine, then why not refuse a
place to an unmarried lady who has a fath-
er on whom to rely? Then when a candi-
date for a teacher presented herself, her fate
could be determined, not by a test of her
technical knowledge and general powers,
but by reference to the tax list, to ascertain
the income of her father!
	Charity is certainly a type of heaven, but
justice must take precedence even of mercy
in the selection of public school teachers.
It is noble and grand to give, in the selec-
tion of mechanical employees, preference
to the average woman who needs it, to
whom life at best is but a struggle, but in
the high and holy work of education—work
that might well tax an angel's powers—
personal considerations should not prevail.
	Some of the finest educational work in
the United States is done by married wo-
men. Their private life has nothing to do
with their public work—whether they toil
for daily bread, or whether they bring to 
their work a fresher enthusiasm, a higher
zeal in teaching, because they love the la-
bor. In fact, the woman to whom salary is
less an object than the enduring results of
her labor has in her hands a lever that
brings cultured thought to her work, in a 
degree impossible to one in limited and
hampered circumstances. Married women
bring to their work an experience, an in-
sight, a poise rarely attainable in teachers
younger and untried. They have tact,
judgment, and discretion, and the school
system could illy spare them. The public
schools are not designed as a charitable in-
stitution to furnish employment for indi-
gent women. their aim is to produce the


best possible results, irrespective of the
sex or circumstance of the worker. It is
the labor, not the laborers, that must here
receive the most profound consideration.
	LILIAN WHITING.
St. Louis, Mo.—Ex.


DUTY OF CHILDREN.

	Noticing a piece in the EXPONENT—
"Duty of Parents"—it caused me to reflect
on the duty of children to their parents. I
think it says somewhere in the Command-
ments of the Lord, "Honor thy Father and
thy mother, that thy days may be long on
the earth." I think were the affections of
the mother felt and cherished by her chil-
dren with corresponding sympathy, doubt-
less this earth would exhibit more of heav-
en than at present. I think a mother
teaching her children to pray is the most
sublime and tender scene the imagination
can conceive. Elevated above earthly
things, she seems like one of those guar-
dian angels, the companion of our earthly
pilgrimage.
	A dear mother is the first to embrace and
nourish our puny frames, so I would say
unto you, children be kind to your mother;
it is she that watches your bed of sickness,
it is she that is ever ready to proffer to the
parching lip the cool draught, and soothe
the fevered brow, happy if she meet one
kind glance in payment for her labor of
love. How pleasant it is to see children
obedient to their parents and kind to each
other; I think such a mother is blest.
How beautiful where there are large fami-
lies and all the older members make it a 
practice to speak kindly to each other, and
set good examples before the children—and
we must, if we want to be true Latter-day
Saints, and gain for ourselves an exaltation.
We must try and bear with each other's
faults, and not one feel above the other.
How elevating is the tendency of such a
family! How happy must the husband and 
father feel, when he comes home from his
labors at night, to meet the smiles of all
his household, and realize the good feelings
existing between them. Let us then, as
true wives and mothers, in the absence of
the husband, call our little ones together
when we are about to retire to rest, and
have prayers with them, and ask in faith
for such things as we stand in need of, and
the Holy Spirit to be with us at all times,
and when we close our door at night let us
try and shut out all contention and discord,
and let us seek to live aright, so that we
may be counted worthy of an exaltation in
the Celestial kingdom.
	JANE GODFREY.
Clarkston, March 12, 1878.


THE time is past when "anybody can
teach school," even a country school. The
time has come when the people are de-
manding that the youth of their children
shall not be wasted by superficial culture,
but that good seed be sown instead of nox-
ious weeds. Is there any parent who con-
siders that a common-school education is
more than his child needs? or that the best
teacher his school has ever had is too good
for him? On the contrary, did he not pay
his share of the tax for that teacher more
willingly than he ever paid any other simi-
lar tax? The true economy of time is to
accomplish the most in it; of the children's
time, it is to prepare them for lives of use-
fulness, to fit them to fill the ambition of 
their parents in becoming the noble men
and women of the future.—S. H. White.—
Ex.


"INTELLECTUALLY, WOMEN ARE
LAZIER-THAN MEN."

	This is truly an age of progress, and we
may add an age of competition. We hail
with delight the many indications that be-
speak the future glorious destiny of woman.
We watch with zealous care every unguard-
ed utterance, every unintentional acknowl-
edgment, in favor of human equality,
which unconsciously falls from the lips of
ungenerous, egotistical men. As it has
been grudgingly admitted since "the meri-
dian of the third century," by a small por-
tion of the "Lords of Creation," that wo-
men are the actual possessors of SOULS, I
should be pleased to have aome one tell me,
how long the poor creatures have been al-
lowed to exercise their "lazy intellects."
When I contemplate that it has taken cen-
turies to bring the dull comprehension of
man to the realization of the simple fact
that women have souls, I almost despair of 
his ever becoming fully converted to the
divine reality that women were created in
God's image, ("Male and female created he
them,") or to the honest conviction of
grand old Wendell Phillips that "God nev-
er wastes ability." Tupper has sweetly
written that "Woman is the poetry of a
man's life," but where we would ask is the
poetry of woman's life, we fear it will too
often prove to be—verse.
	The burden of the song of every daugh-
ter of Eve from the creation has been "O,
if I were only a man!" And whence com-
eth this desire? From the fact that she
has not been allowed to be Woman's self.
She has not been allowed to cultivate the
talents which God has given her equally
with man.
	Even to-day,
	"Woman is held politically to have no ex-
istence.
	"Civilly she is a minor.
	"In marriage she is a serf.
	"In labor she is made inferior and rob-
bed of her earnings.
	"In public instruction she is sacrificed to
man.
	"Out of marriage she answers to the sins
committed by both.
	"As a mother she is deprived of the 
right to her children.
	"She is only deemed equally responsible,
intelligent, and answerable in taxes and
crimes."
	Not long since a minister of the gospel,
in this city, one who claims to stand upon
a very broad platform, casting behind him
all Creeds, Dogmas, boldly denouncing the
narrowness of all denominational lines,
grandly and eloquently advocating the
scientific and spiritual advancement of
man,—well this modern Heologist, amazed
the thinking women of his audience one
evening, by the injustice and audacity of
this assertion.
	"Intellectually women are lazier than
men." No doubt the rudeness, or if you
please, the vulgarity of the expression will
impress the reader as it did me, coming from
a college-bred Theologian, and we hope it
will make the fist of every intelligent wo
man in the land clinch as did ours when
we heard it.
	I am glad that he said it for the sake of 
the women who "have all the rights they
want." It is just such medicine they need
to make them whole.
—Ex.


WE prove our love of God by keeping
His laws.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		167﻿


<c- yfst.="" george,="" uararch="" 10,="" 1878.="" editor="" 'exronent:="" ’="" i="" bellevje="" tliereiief="" societies="" of="" st.="" george="" have="" been="" rather="" remiss="" in="" representing="" themselves="" your,="" valuable="" paper.="" the;="" old="" organization.="" wa3="" dissolved="" and="" a="" branch="" society="" organized="" each="" ward="" since="" the="" re-organization="" stake.="" submit="" few="" items="" in.="" regard="" to.="" the.condition="" the-="" socle="" tyof="" firsfward,="" to="" show="" that="" w0“="" are="" alive="" our="" duties.="" -we="" were="" organ-="" izecfpn="" the.="" 23d="" may="" last,-by="" president.="" j.="" ib="" tv="" mcftalisteffand="" bishop="" miles="" p.="" romney;="" thafollowing="" named="" sisters="" wore,="" sustained="" as="" officers.="" 1="" hannah="" h.="" romiiey,="" satwfeanir,="" “iors.="" g.="" perkins,="" secretary.="" mary="" jarvis,="" assistant="" secretary="" susan.y.="" milne,="" treasurer.’="" time="" sister="" pej-kips="" has="" .re-="" signed,="" on="" accounvof’ill="" health,="" annie="" m;="" romney="" appointed="" fill="" vacancy.="" we="" bave="" enrolled,="" members,="" 73="" names,="" but="" quite="" number="" deterred="" from="" at-="" tending,="" some="" oh="" account="" having="" small="" children,="" others="" .advanced="" age,="" sick="" ness,="" ’fete,="" though="" i:="" think="" wo="" benefit="" their="" faith="" prayors,="" ahd'tho3e="" who.="" do="" attend="" very="" faithful="" labors,="" responding="" willingly="" calls="" president,="" who="" is="" energetic="" wo-="" man="" mnd="" one="" whom="" all="" love="" respect.="" an="" excellent'.spirit-="" prevails,="" greatly="" blessed,="" prospered.="" those="" invaluable="" books="" entitled="" “the="" women="" morndndbtn,'ijfrdm="" which="" reads="" '&t="" -meeting.="" need="" make="" no="" c'ommdnts="" this="" masterpiece="" literature,="" itrrecommends="" itself="" peruse="" it.="" bit="" ter="" persecutions,="" thehearf-rendfng="" trials,="" sisters,;="" therein="" recorded,="" wake="" responsive="" chord="" call="" forth-="" holiest="" sympathies="" hearts="" mothers="" iiaughiers="" of"="" zion,="" sets="" before="" them.bright="" il-="" lustrious="" examples,="" worthy="" -irbitatlgn.="" records="" will="" assuredly="" stand="" forth="" unborn="" generations,="" imperishable="" monument="" glory,="" memory="" noble="" "and="" heroic="" .women,="" con7="" demnatidn="" everlasting-shame="" dis-s="" grace="" vile,="" fiendish="" persecutors,="" the-sisters="" desired="" td="" have-a="" social="" ;pichic;="" new="" year’s="" dayy:ancl'accordingly="" thy,="" with'their="" husbands'and="" brothers="" (comprfs-:="" ingnearly="" whole="" ‘ward,)="" met="" at="" school="" house,="" had="" beauti-="" fully="" decorated="" for="" tliq="" .occasion,="" after="" partaking="" rich="" repast,="" spent="" rest="" iheafternoon="" evening="" iff="" ’dancing,="" songs,="" recitations;,="" it="" was="" great="" suc-="" cess;="" 'alr="" whi.t="" merry="" 'marriage="" beli.”="" presidents="" mc'calliatpr="" eyring="" participated="" with="" us="" enjoyments="" day.="" assisted="" officers="" doing="" honors="" occasion,="" performed="" ina="" creditablo="" manner.-="" iff-a-very="" pofir="" ftjrain="" country,="" succeeded="" istoring="" little="" more="" than="" two="" hundred="" lbs.="" 'of="" wheat,="" a'="" beginning,="" butl="" vwe="" hope="" to'afid="" m="" coming="" season."'="" .="" counselors="" manifest="" -lively="" interest="" welfare,="" assist-="" ing="" take="" some-="" preparatory="" .steps="" toward="" carrying="" out="" fhb'counsel="" given="" rela-="" jo'the="" silk-culture.="" they="" ren-="" dered="" usvery="" efficient="" aid="" purchasing="" one-fourth="" lot,="" situated="" short="" distanco="" westjbf="" .the="" temple="" flock,="" bro.="" geo.="" jarvis="" kindly="" offefeu'="" tofthkt="" care="" ‘of="" tins'="" joseph,="" sevier,="" co,="" march="" 11,="" exponent?="" '="" ,i="" :="" reliof="" re-organized‘at="" place="" doc.="" g,="" 1877,="" under="" direction,'="" a.="" murdock.="" ex-="" cellent="" meeting,="" ’much="" good:’instruct="" tlon="" given.="" election-="" officers1-’="" follows:="" davis,="" -="" lucinda="" e.="" murdock,="" )="" saraha.eoss,="" counselors.="" lydia="" l.="" wells,="" martha="" secretary..="" floria="" russell,="" treasurer.="" meet="" together="" onco="" two.weeks,="" meetings="" well="" attended;-we:="" twenty-nine="" expect’="" continue="" increase.="" we..="" ..="" stored="" thirty-nine="" bushels="" grain;="" lot="" ahd="" expect="" fence="" this.="" summer,="" then="" shall="" set="" mulberry="" frees.="" striving="" bpcomo,="" united="" dfling="" good="" can="" towbrds="" ”="" building="" up="" zidu.="" besf="" ‘wishes="" prosperity="" exponent1,="" your'="" sis.="" ter,="" &c.,="" webbs,="" sec’y.(="" wales,="" sanpete;="" co.,="" 1g,="" 1878="" exponent;="" relief,bocidty="" been”reorganized:="" t="" small,="" place,="" we:="" both,="" willing="" anxious="" allhe="" can.,="" president="" mrs.="" ‘="" margaret="" reese,="" counselors,="" mrs.,="" jane="" rdmunds="" and-="" jemimadan's,="" miss="" maggie="" secretary,'="" isirs.'="" eliza="" lteese,="" treas.rv="" urer.="" wd="" young="" ladies="" hero="" resulted="" "in="" gogd.="" interesting,="" butasthere="" now="" three="" girls="" unmarried,="" joined="" relief="" society,:a="" be="" useful,="" moyoi="" fpnvard?="" capacity.,="" :v.1="" secretary.,]="" ......="" w="" jftsr="" ’-'<="" div="">[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.

	ST. GEORGE, UTAH, March 10. 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I believe the Relief Societies of St. George
have been rather remiss in representing
themselves in your valuable paper. The
old organization was dissolved and a Branch
Society organized in each ward since the
re-organization of the Stake. I submit a
few items in regard to the condition of the
Society of the First Ward, to show that we
are alive to our duties. We were organ-
ized on the 23d of May last, by President
J. D. T. McCalister and Bishop Miles P.
Romney; the following named sisters were
sustained as officers.
	Hannah H. Romney, President.
	Sarah A. Church,		}	Counselors.
	Hannah M. Wiltbank,	}
	Hannah G. Perkins, Secretary.
	Mary Jarvis, Assistant Secretary.
	Susan. Y. Milne, Treasurer.
	Since that time Sister Perkins has re-
signed, on account of ill health, and Annie
M. Romney appointed to fill the vacancy.
We have enrolled, as members, 73 names,
but quite a number are deterred from at-
tending, some on account of having small
children, others from advanced age, sick-
ness, etc., though I think we have the
benefit of their faith and prayers, and those
who do attend are very faithful in their
labors, responding willingly to the calls of
our President, who is a very energetic wo-
man and one whom all love and respect.
An excellent spirit prevails, and we are
greatly blessed and prospered. We have
one of those invaluable books entitled "The
Women of Mormondom, " from which our
Secretary reads at each meeting. I need
make no comments on this masterpiece of
literature, as it recommends itself to all
who peruse it. But the bitter persecutions,
the heart-rending trials, of our sisters,
therein recorded, wake a responsive chord,
and call forth the holiest sympathies of
the hearts of the mothers and daughters of
Zion, and sets before them bright and il-
lustrious examples, worthy of imitation.
Their records will assuredly stand forth to
unborn generations, as an imperishable
monument of glory to the memory of those
noble and heroic women, and to the con-
demnation and everlasting shame and dis-
grace of their vile, fiendish persecutors.
The sisters desired to have a social picnic
on New Year's day, and accordingly they,
with their husbands and brothers (compris-
ing nearly the whole of the Ward,) met at
the school house, which had been beauti-
fully decorated for the occasion, and after
partaking of a rich repast, spent the rest of
the afternoon and evening in dancing,
songs, and recitations; it was a great suc-
cess; and "all went merry as a marriage
bell." Presidents McCallister and Eyring
participated with us in the enjoyments of
the day. Our Bishop assisted the officers
of the Society in doing the honors of the
occasion, which were performed in a very
creditable manner. This is a very poor
grain country, but we have succeeded in
storing a little more than two hundred lbs.
of wheat, which is a small beginning, but
we hope to add to it the coming season.
Bishop Romney and Counselors manifest a
lively interest in our welfare, and in assist-
ing us to take some preparatory steps
toward carrying out the counsel given rela-
tive to the silk-culture. They have ren-
dered us very efficient aid in purchasing
one-fourth of a lot, situated a short distance
west of the Temple Block, which Bro. Geo.
Jarvis kindly offered to take care of this

[Column 2]
season; he has already set out fifteen hun-
dred mulbery cuttings, and we expect soon
to plant some of the trees and seed, also
some cotten seed. Yesterday President
H. H. Romney called a bee of the sisters,
to lay out a flower garden and plant flower
roots, seeds, etc., to beautify the grounds,
where we hope at some future day, by the
blessing of God, to build a Hall for the use
of the Society. A number of the mem-
bers, with Bro. Jarvis and some of the boys
of the Ward, responded cheerfully to the
call, and all worked with a will (the officers
setting a worthy example), until they ac-
complished what was desired. I pray that
our labors may prove successful.
					A MEMBER, R. S.

	FRANKLIN, ONEIDA Co., IDAHO,
						March 14, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I write to inform you that our Relief So-
ciety is in good condition, we have com-
menced to put up a frame building for society
purposes, 18x26 feet, which we are in hopes
of completing this coming spring or sum-
mer if no unforseen events transpire to
have it otherwise. In accordance with the
counsel of our late beloved President we
have laid up forty-five bushels of wheat, but
the grasshoppers destroying almost all our
crops last fall, we could not add to it as
much as we would like, but through the
blessings of God we hope to do better an-
other year. We likewise wish to throw in
our mite towards building the Temple at
Logan, for which we have started a Five-
cent-Fund, to be paid once a month, think-
ing it would give all the poor a chance to
contribute to that laudable undertaking in
which we are all so deeply interested. We
remember the poor and administer to their
necessities as occasion requires.
	For quite a few years after this place was
settled it belonged to Utah; but of late years
the surveyors have drawn the dividing line
and have left us out in the cold; and a
pretty cold corner it is sometimes, never-
theless we try to catch the spirit of the
times that is among our sisters in Utah
who are trying to build up the kingdom of
God.
	At the present time there is a great deal
said about Woman's Rights, and how some
men are opposed to women coming forward
to claim them either as suffragists, or to try
to stem the current of crime that comes so
glaringly to the front in every large city
and town; in my humble opinion I think
that through tradition or some other cause,
the trouble has been because woman has
been too yielding, and it will take all the
ability of what is termed the "strong-mind-
ed women" to assist the weaker and teach
them to act with more independence of
character, and I believe it is in the power
of woman to bring about a great reform in
this respect.
	On October 30th, we were blessed with a
visit from Sisters Zina D. Young and E.
Davis, we had a splendid meeting at which
Mrs. Z. D. Young organized a Young La-
dies Mutual Improvement Association,
which is in good working order and will
result in a great amount of good to the
daughters of Zion who will improve the
opportunities—given them in the Associa-
tions. We likewise have a Y. M. M. I. A.
here, and those who attend as a natural
consequence, improve in public speaking,
and in the knowledge of the Gospel.
	Success to your valuable little paper, I
for one would feel very lonesome without
it. I am your Sister in the Gospel.
				ELIZABETH FOX,
					President R. S.

[Column 3]
	JOSEPH, SEVIER, Co., March 11, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Relief Society was re-organized at
this place Dec. 6, 1877, under the direction
of Bishop G. A. Murdock. We had an ex-
cellent meeting, and much good instruc-
tion was given. The election of officers
was as follows:
	Mary J. Davis, President.
	Lucinda E. Murdock,	} Counselors.
	Sarah A. Ross,		}
	Lydia L. Wells, Secretary.
	Martha A. Wells, Assistant Secretary.
	Floria A. Russell, Treasurer.
	We meet together once in two weeks,
and our meetings are well attended; we
number twenty-nine members, but expect
our number will continue to increase. We
have stored thirty-nine bushels of grain;
we have a lot and expect to fence it this
coming summer, and then we shall set out
mulberry trees. We are striving to become
united in doing all the good we can towards
building up Zion. With best wishes for
the prosperity of the EXPONENT, your sis-
ter, &c.,				L. L. WELLS, Sec'y.

	WALES, SANPETE CO., March 16, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Our Relief Society has been reorganized:
This is a very small place, but we are both
willing and anxious to do all the good we
can. Our President is Mrs. Margaret L.
Reese, Counselors, Mrs. Jane Edmunds,
and Mrs. Jemima Dans, Miss Maggie
Reese, Secretary, Mrs. Eliza Reese, Treas-
urer. We had a young ladies society here
for some time which resulted in good.
Our meetings were interesting, but as there
are now but three young girls unmarried,
we have joined with the Relief Society, 
that we may be useful, and move forward
in an organized capacity.
		MISS MAGGIE REESE, Secretary.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	DURING THE great Exposition at Paris
the coming season there will be an Interna-
tional Congress of all women who are inter-
ested in the advancement of the sex. Prob-
ably this Congress will be one of great
significance, as there will be women of
marked ability and note from all parts of
the enlightened world.
	ON THURSDAY, March 7th, King Hum-
bert opened the Italian Parliament in per-
son by a speech from the throne. He said:
"We shall consolidate and render fruitful
the great work of Italian unity, to which
its glorious founder devoted his life." In
reference to the Holy See he said: "Pope
Pius IX, after governing the church for
thirty-two years, has descended to the
tomb, regretted and venerated. The rites
of electing his successor have been perform-
ed in perfect freedom, and without disturb-
ing the tranquility of the State, the peace
of consciousness or the independence of the
ministers of religion. By maintaining our
institutions, and reconciling respect for re-
ligion with a determined defence of State
laws, and the principles of civilization, we
prove how great are the fruits of liberty.
We are confident that in our hands Italy
will not fall from her exalted position."


﻿The definition of bankruptcy by Mr.
Commissioner Kerr, is reported as "a state
of things where a man owes a lot of money,
and an accountant and a lawyer divide his
estates between them."


168		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

BRIGHAM CTIY, ARIZONA, March 10.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	*	*	You ask me if the EXPONENTS came
safely to hand; I received eight in number
without a soil or rent, and I feel that many
thanks are due to you for complying with my
request so readily. President John W. Young
was here and organized this branch of the
Church and named our place Brigham City,
instead of Ballenger's Camp. Brother Lake is
our Bishop; he said he was glad to see the EX-
PONENT in the camp, and would join with me
in sending for it. The settlements are in a
prosperous condition; all are busy putting in
grain and early garden seeds. Many of the
brethren have gone out among the Indians to
preach the Gospel to them; they receive them
and treat them kindly. I hope you will con-
tinue to send the EXPONENT to me, I hail them
with delight, and I am now looking for them,
anxiously expecting them every day. Please
direct the same as before. I feel to thank you,
Sister Wells, for your kind wis[-]es towards my-
self and the camp in general. There are many
trials here for us to bear, which you there in
your comfortable homes can hardly realize.
With love I remain as ever your sister in the
Gospel,			MATILDA P. KILLIAN.


﻿A Congress of German Women was re-
cently opened at Frankfort, Germany. The
subjects discussed were prejudices, reform
in the education of women, the literature
of youth, woman in the family, the obsta-
cles to the extension of the employment of
women, influence in social life etc.—Ex.


[Column 1]
NOTICE.

All who may wish to purchase silk-worm
eggs can obtain them from Mrs. Lorinda Robin-
son of Farmington. It would be well for those
who intend to purchase to secure what quanti-
ty they may need, and if desirable they could
leave them in Mrs. Robinson's care till it was
time to make use of them. Mulberry trees of
all sizes can be obtained from President
Young's farm, just south of the city, by apply-
ing to Wm. Rossiter, at the President's Office.
The [-]rees are from five to forty cents apiece,
according to size.

SILKWORM EGGS FOR SALE
at the residence of
MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG,
State Road, 13th Ward.
Price $4 00 Per Ounce.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saler[-]om to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine: her stock of: Hats made from
the late[-]t Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every-
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment,
at moderate prices.
	Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
and Altered.

		GENEALOGICAL!
LATTER-DAY SAINTS who come from the States of
	New England, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania
or Delaware, or whose ancestors were native of either
of those States, who desire to obtain their Genealogies,
could not do better than to employ B. F. Cummings, Jr.,
who proposes to go east for that purpose during the
present Winter. Parties interested should send for Cir-
cular, giving terms and full instructions.
		Addr[-]ss,
						B. F. CUMMINGS, JR.,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

[Column 2]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOOK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descriptions.
			MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
AT
TEASDEL'S.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND ADDRESS—Main Street, over Dr.
Richards' Drug Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
DRY GOODS,
IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 6.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 15, 1878.		No. 22


OUR PICTURE.

INSCRIBED TO BELLE AND MAGGIE.

	Methinks the hand of angels traced
	The Picture which our window graced;
	Design so perfect and so fair,
	No power of chance could paint it there.

	'Twas Christmas morn a year ago,
	Our eyes beheld, with morn's first glow,
	This picture, lovely, clear and plain,
	In frost-work on the window pane.

	A broken wall, with draw-bridge thrown
	Across a moat with briars o'ergrown;
	Within, in desolation wild,
	A castle in deep ruins piled.

	While rising o'er the ruins high,
	A cross was pointing to the sky;
	And o'er the cross, resting in air,
<c r€.,i)vblla="" faith’s="" the="" erossthat="" polntsabqyc,="" .="" -="" is="" -ifl="" l="" guiding'ua="" on="" to,="" heavea'and="" love..="" (="" i="" l.="" ivpw.fftiithejpiqturedidhotil9r)gy?nlain,'="" j.jin.but="" left="" lw="" stamp="" heatf="" and="" brain;="" ,(?j="" buc="" .bright="" hopes="" may="" in="" ruin="" lfej="" ioi="" god’s="" promises="" cahnevw="" die1’="" lv[“="" ruhitt="" .11="" u="" ..="" r<="" miulioinia="" o,="" .,="" ,we="" gazodin="" silence,="" tll.at="" onqe.="" flmt="" w.eau="" exclaimed,’tls="" meant="" for="" us,="" .v="" a;="" lessonon'chrlst’snaialday,="" ;="" jy="" avj:="" to="" cheer="" 'help="" ns'="" our="" way="" “-="" kja="" bit="" -i="" ,tii="" y;b;7="">	A wreath of flowers divinely fair.

	Oh, emblem of our earthly day,
	Life's ever-changing, fitful way.
	The Moat I view as time's swift tide,
	The Bridge the years o'er which we glide.

	The Castle of our faded dreams,
	A perfect emblem truly seems;
	While Faith's the Cross that points above,
	Guiding us on to heaven and love.

	The Picture did not long remain,
	But left its stamp on heart and brain;
	Our bright hopes may in ruin lie,
	God's promises can never die.

	We gazed in silence, 'til at once
	We all exclaimed, 'Tis meant for us,
	A lesson on Christ's natal day,
	To cheer and help us on our way.

	Help us our Father well to learn,
	Help us the Crown of life to earn,
	The Cross to bear—"Thy will be done;"
	Guide us, we pray, 'till Heaven is won.
Written in 1871. [handwritten] Sa[-]ia E. K[---] HOPE.


[For the EXPONENT.
				WOMEN.

	Brought up in a town where the greatest
pains were taken to educate women, and
graduate them with high honors, in con-
nection with the colleges—marrying a man
that I could look up to, and rely upon his
clear judgment—coming into this Church at
the age of eighteen, and finding that the
power of voting was given to women as
well as to men, I have not felt that bitter-
ness of spirit that many have felt, who have
been wronged by those of the opposite sex.
	I have said, and still say, that if women
can do a piece of work of any kind as well
as men can, they should receive the same
amount of pay, and not, because they are
women, receive a less stipend.
	Women in many nations are but the
pack-horses of men. Rude, uncivilized
and barbarian, men lord it in idleness,
while women labor to raise bread for them
to eat. Women in civilized countries, of
the laboring classes, have had many do-
mestic duties to perform, which to them
have generally been pleasant; generally I
say, for I believe, as women educate them-
selves and move in a higher sphere of
thought and action, the daily routine of
household employments becomes irksome.
But in the present state of society, how
can they be carried on differently? Those
who are able can hire help to have their
work done, but if all move in the same
plane of thought, or are not obliged to
work to earn their bread, who will there be


to hire? There is, it seems to me, but one
remedy for the women; to unite their la-
bors, as the United Order can unite them,
and as the Relief Societies have made a
beginning, whereby there will be more
time for intellectual improvement, than
can be now taken in the majority of house-
holds. I often hear the remark, "I really
do not find time to read," and I have some-
times felt as if domestic duties were so
urgent, in my own case, that I have to
forego the pleasure of reading and writing,
although every odd moment is spent in one
of those pursuits.
	"I spend half my time in thinking what
to cook," is another remark I sometimes
hear. Now, if the planning and cooking
came only once in a while, it could be en-
tered into with renewed zest, and the re-
mainder of the time devoted to something
else. The every day practical duties of
life should not be discarded, but every girl
should be taught to perform them with
ability, while at the same time they should
not be the whole work of this existence.
The dawning of a future era for women is
lighting up the world, and women will re-
joice to be emancipated from many cares
that now hinder increased usefulness. The
Lord is blessing the women of Zion; more
and more responsibility rests upon them,
and more is required at their hands.
	Then let us be faithful, even unto the
end, that we may receive our reward in
the presence of our Father.
	St. George.		EMILY B. SPENCER.


AN ANECDOTE

ILLUSTRATIVE OF A GREAT MAN'S LIFE.

	There had been a "Twenty-fourth of
July picnic" in one of the canons east of 
this city. The sun was declining in the
west, the festivities of the day were ended,
and the merry company had started home-
ward.
	At the side of the canon road trudged a
young man, with a bundle of bed-clothes,
an ax and a dinner sack upon his back. He
had, evidently, been stopping some days
and nights in the canon, chopping down
timber ready for hauling. One after an-
other of the vehicles, which were convey-
ing the merry-makers to their homes,
passed carelessly by, their inmates scarcely
noticing him. But after a while, a fine,
portly-looking gentleman put his head out
of a carriage and called to his driver,
"Here! stop and take that boy in." Ac-
cordingly, the poor wood-chopper was taken
up and carried a good portion of his way
home.
	I do not know who all the gay people
were who passed him by so thoughtlessly,
but the gentleman in whose carriage he
rode was Brigham Young.		L. G. R.


RICHES are but ciphers—it is the mind
that makes the sum.

	Teach self-denial, and make its practice
pleasurable, and you create for the world a
destiny more sublime than ever issued
from the brain of the wildest dreamer.


NOTES AND NEWS.

<be not="" dnlike’dn="" appearance.="" mrs.="" tyler="" is'much="" ’ths="" elder="" of="" the="" two,="" but="" both="" have="" same="" bright="" expression="" conntenancej0black,ygi6'ssy="" hair="" and="" agreeable="" mtinherk'="" oil:="" “et.ernab="" punishmens?’="" is1,="" cfiscupseft="" by="" miss="" catherine="" e.="" bedherjinp="" levtsfr="" to="" a="" new="" york="" paper.="" she="" clairds="" cal-="" vinistic="" system="" theology1="" be="" contrary="" bible,="" reason="" common="" sense;="" kahd="" says:="" that-although="" her="" father="" rejected!thb="" idea="" literal="" fire="" .and.ibrim-="" stone="" torments,="" he="" described="" the.="" sufferings="" wicked="" in="" such.terms="" as="" caused="" hfcr-="" self="" afid="" mrs,="" stowe="" to.lbavn="" church)ih="" midst="" his="" sermon,="" i="" m..="" .1="" .!="" i-:="" ,="" 1="" i-tr:="" v="" !="" -="" vv<="" div="">	LABORERS IN the East are again making
strikes for higher wages.
	<be not="" dnlike’dn="" appearance.="" mrs.="" tyler="" is'much="" ’ths="" elder="" of="" the="" two,="" but="" both="" have="" same="" bright="" expression="" conntenancej0black,ygi6'ssy="" hair="" and="" agreeable="" mtinherk'="" oil:="" “et.ernab="" punishmens?’="" is1,="" cfiscupseft="" by="" miss="" catherine="" e.="" bedherjinp="" levtsfr="" to="" a="" new="" york="" paper.="" she="" clairds="" cal-="" vinistic="" system="" theology1="" be="" contrary="" bible,="" reason="" common="" sense;="" kahd="" says:="" that-although="" her="" father="" rejected!thb="" idea="" literal="" fire="" .and.ibrim-="" stone="" torments,="" he="" described="" the.="" sufferings="" wicked="" in="" such.terms="" as="" caused="" hfcr-="" self="" afid="" mrs,="" stowe="" to.lbavn="" church)ih="" midst="" his="" sermon,="" i="" m..="" .1="" .!="" i-:="" ,="" 1="" i-tr:="" v="" !="" -="" vv<="" div="">THE RELEASE of Cheyenne and other
imprisoned Indians has been ordered by
the Secretary of war.

	THE GERMAN Emperor writes courteous-
ly to the Pope, expressing willingness to
entertain friendly relations with the vati-
can, but gives no indications of a basis for
negotiations.

	THE WIDOW of ex-President Tyler has
lately made the acquaintance of Mrs.
Hayes. They are said to be not unlike in
appearance. Mrs. Tyler is much the elder
of the two, but both have the same bright
expression of countenance, black, glossy
hair and agreeable manners.

	"ETERNAL PUNISHMENT" is discussed
by Miss Catherine E. Beecher, in a letter
to a New York paper. She claims the Cal-
vinistic system of theology to be contrary
to the Bible, to reason and to common
sense; and says that although her father
rejected the idea of literal fire and brim-
stone torments, he described the sufferings
of the wicked in such terms as caused her-
self and Mrs. Stowe to leave the church in
the midst of his sermon.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	"Look up!" thundered the captain of a
vessel, as his boy grew dizzy while gazing
from the top-mast, "Look up!"  The boy
looked up and returned in safety, Young
man, look up, and you will succeed.  Never
look down and despair.  Leave dangers un-
<n vessel,="" as="" his="" boy="" grew="" dizzy="" whilom="" gdzing="" from="" the="" top-masv“look="" upir-tchbhoy="" looked="" ahd="" returned="" in="" safetyi.djyoung="" man,'lookup,="" and="" yqu="" will="" succepdit="" neybr="" look="" down="" despair...="" leave'dangerddn-="" cared="" for,'and="" push="" am.illfi="" yotl.faltcrj="" you="" lose;="" .="" upi="" podrightrind:="" twsbtfn="" god.="" ...i..="" ir.vi="" a1="" parental="" hint-—'w'hen="" an="" accident="" occurs,="" learn="" whethei'it:="" was="" through="" mis-="" fortune,="" carelessness,--or="" wilfulness="" before="" you,="" pass;sentence="" accidents="" are="" fre-="" quently="" of="" great="" service,="" children="" often="" more="" tautlon="" a.nd,="" rpal,="" information="" their="" occurrence="" than="" fifty="" les-="" sons.="" :="" be="" it="" remembered="" that="" perfec-="" tion="" bcionce="" is’="" owing="" to="" andrehlbdy="" its="" party="" accidents;'1="" v.'dlool="" jdeci'iion.bi="" phar&fciej="" 1s!brie="" pf="" thdmdst="" important="" ;jrif'="" httiq'an.-palitles,="" pni’losophj-="" cally;="" considered.="" bpecq'latiph.="" kpp’wtedgp,="" i3="" nbt="" chief="" efid="" 'of="" mafajif="" ls="" aetioh.="" we="" may="" by="" a;="" find="" educaiiw="" learn.="" ,="" hlrik="" most.="" correctly,="" hnd="" talk="" most="" beantuuly;="" 'tiut'when.it="" bombs="" fpdctionif="" weareweak="" and’'="" .undecided,="" alvlbeing3="" th'b="" vretched.="" ail="" mahkiod="" ?e'jlrthfem.="" selves="" weak,="" beset="" ith.idflrmitreabd="" surrounded="" with="" dangeysj,="" neatest="" minds.are="" jnost="" conscious="" dlmimlties-="" danger?.="" they="" want,="" above="" all="" things="" a="" leader="" yrith="" boldness,="" decision="" arid="" en-="" ergy,="" which="" shamo="" do="" not="" themselves.="" y<give="" us="" man,”="" shout="" the:mullitude,="" “who="" ste="" forward="" take="" responsibility...heis,="" instantly="" idol,="" lord,="" klng="" among="" men.="" vhov="" iheri,3="" who="" wdtitd="" 'cotatnan'd'="" ’atqbbvhis="" bellows,="" hiust'excelthbrmor0="" energy="" power="" intellect.—burnap.<="" div="">cared for, and push on.  If you falter, you
lose.  Look up!  Do right, and trust in
God.
	A PARENTAL HINT.—When an accident
occurs, learn whether it was through mis-
fortune, carelessness, or wilfulness before
you pass sentence.  Accidents are fre-
quently of great service, and children often
learn more caution and real informatin
from their occurence than from fifty les-
sons.  Be it remembered that the perfec-
tion of science is owing to the occurrence
and remedy of its early accidents.
	DECISION of character is one of the most
important of human qualities, philosophi-
cally considered.  Speculation, knowledge, 
is not the chief end of man; it is action. 
We may by a fine education learn to think
most correctly, and talk most beautifully;
but when it comes to action, if we are weak
and undecided, we are of all being the
most wretched.  All mankind feel them-
selves weak, beset with infirmities, and
surrounded with dangers; the acutest 
minds are the most conscious of difficulties and
dangers.  They want above all things a 
leader with that boldness, decision and en-
ergy, which with shame they do not find
in themselves.  "Give us the man," shout
the multitude, "who will steph forward and
take responsibility."  He is instantly 
the idol, the lord, and the king among men.
He, then, who would command among his
fellows, must excel them more in energy of
will than in power of intellect.—Burnap.


170		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

		WEST JORDAN, March 13th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
   
	Report of the Young Ladies M. I. A., of
this ward, since its organization by Sister
Eliza R. Snow, Feb 7th, 1878. Officers:

	M[-]ss Delila Gardner, President,
	"	Marinda Bateman,	}
	"	Rachel Hill,			}
	"	Mary A. Cooper,		}	Counselors.
	"	Polly A. Egbert,		}
	"	Ellen Jensen,			}
	"	Adeline Williams,		}
	"	Elizabeth Cutler, Secretary,
	"	Rebecca Cutler, Assistant Secretary,
	"	Elizabeth Cooper, Treasurer.
	We meet once a week. The number of
members in our association is 81, and all
seem to enjoy the spirit of the Lord in our
meetings. They attend punctually and do
whatever they are called upon to do. We
have a paper edited every week which is
interesting and instructive to all. We also
have select readings, recitations etc. Our
hope and prayers are that we may increase
and not decrease and that we may help the
great work along. Some of the sisters of
the Relief Society visit us and give us
very good instructions. We will close by
wishing the EXPONENT success, we re-
main, Yours, etc.
		ELIZABETH CUTLER, Sec'y.

	On Wednesday, March 20th, 1878, a spe-
cial meeting of the Young Ladies' Re-
trenchment Association of the 20th Ward,
(this city) was held in the Ward School
House. Sisters E. R. Snow, Z. D. Young,
M. I. Horne and a number of other ladies
were present by invitation, also President
Joseph Young and other brethren, by
whom much valuable instruction and en-
couragement was given. On motion of
Sister Snow, a unanimous vote was taken
to change the name of our Society to Mu-
tual Improvement Association.
	At the close of the meeting, which was
in all respects a very excellent one, the
visitors and some of the officers of the So-
ciety repaired to the residence of Brother
and Sister C. W. Stayner, where a most
enjoyable repast was partaken of.
		MRS. SARAH HOWARD, President,
		MISS SELINA SABINE, Secretary.

			FARMINGTON, DAVIS CO.,
						April 3, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A meeting was held to-day, commencing
at 11 o'clock a. m., for the purpose of ef-
fecting an organization of the Relief Socie-
ty of this county. There were present on
the stand Wm. R. Smith. President of this
Stake of Zion, and his Counselors, C. Lay-
ton and A. Call; also Miss E. R. Snow and
the Presidents of each of the branches of
the Relief Society of this county.
	Wm. R. Smith was elected Chairman,
and Mrs. Lucy A. Clark, Secretary, after
which the following officers were elected
by unanimous vote:
	Mrs. Sarah I. Holmes, President.
	"	Mary S. Clark,	}	Counselors.
	" 	Nancy A. Clark,	}
	Miss Minerva E. Richards, Secretary.
						LUCY A. CLARK.

		RANDOLPH, March 26th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I send you a few words from the Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association

[Column 2]
of this Ward. Our Society was organized
on the 8th of January, 1878. The Sisters
met pursuant to the call of Bishop Stuart,
who, in company with Elders McKinnon
and Rex, met with the sisters. The Bish-
op stated the object of the meeting, and
presented the following names for officers,
which were unanimously sustained by the
sisters:
	Jane Brough, President.
	Agnes Smith,	 } Counselors.
	Rebecca Quinney. }
	Annie Christianson, Secretary.
	Augustine McMinn, Assistant Secretary.
	Jeanette Cameron, Treasurer.

	The young ladies responded to the call of
the Bishop to organize, and thirty enrolled
their names as members. Elders McKin-
non and Rex addressed the meeting, and
gave much good instruction to the young
sisters. President Jane Brough and her
Counselors also made a few remarks to the
sisters and encouraged them to press on-
ward in well doing. A collection was tak-
en up to defray the expenses of procuring
books, stationery, etc., for the use of the
Society.
	Since our organization we have met
weekly, and a great desire is manifest
among the young sisters to improve the
talents which God has blessed them with,
and we are increasing in numbers and good
works. We hold two general meetings for
testimony, etc., and then one working
meeting, where the young sisters are taught
useful branches of industry.
	Ever praying for the welfare of the
daughters of Zion, we remain your sisters
in the Gospel.
			JANE BROUGH, President,
			ANNIE CHRISTIANSEN, Sec'y.

			PLEASANT GROVE, UTAH,
						March 29, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We have long intended to send you a re-
port of our Young Ladies' Mutual Improve-
ment Association, but have neglected to do
so until now.
	Our Association was organized in 1870,
under the name of the Young Ladies' Re-
trenchment Association. In 1873 we were
re-organized, and some changes were made
in the officers. The following are the offi-
cers now acting:

	Margaret Walker, President.
	Pauline E. Brown,	}
	Delia I. Winters,		}
	Fannie E. Stuart,		}
	Cordelia Thorne,		} Counselors.
	Mary Adams,		}
	Elizabeth Thorne,	}
	Eleanor J. Hayes,		}
	H. A. Winters, Secretary.
	S. E. Hawley, Assistant Secretary.
	Christina Larsen, Treasurer.
	Martha Woolley, Assistant Treasurer.
	Since our re organization the Society has
been in a prosperous condition. We hold
our meetings every Monday evening, with
an average attendance of twenty-five mem-
bers, and on the first Thursday in every
month we meet in joint meeting with the
Y. M. M. I. A. At these meetings, in ad-
dition to the usual exercises, a paper is
read, called the "Young Folks' Advocate,"
which is edited by a member of each As-
sociation. The paper has proved to be a
very interesting feature of these meetings.
It contains instructive essays on religious
subjects, education, etc., wit and humor,
local items and advertisements.
	Financially our Association is in a pros-
perous condition for so small an organiza-

[Column 3]
tion. We have donated $14.20 to the Tem-
ple, nearly all of which was the proceeds of
our own labor. And in conjunction with
the Young Men's Association we are form-
ing a joint library. It contains about one
hundred volumes now, and additions are
constantly being made.
	On the 16th inst. we gave an entertain-
ment for the benefit of the Association,
the proceeds of which amounted to $20.40
over and above all expenses. We have
now in the Treasury $33.25.
	Wishing you success, we remain yours,
very respectfully,
	MARGARET WALKER, President,
			H. A. WINTERS, Secretary.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:	
	Being much interested in the work now
in progress among the sisters, and also a 
reader of the  EXPONENT, I would like to
say a few words through its columns to all
its numerous readers. It is time that we,
as sisters and mothers in Israel, should
wake up and be alive to our duties. As
there are great responsibilities resting upon
us, I realize that we have no time to lose,
but should be diligent and zealous in doing
good and helping to build up the kingdom
of God. We are doing very well in this
part of the vineyard of God; we have over
fifty bushels of wheat stored away against a
day of need. We have got the young sis-
ters organized into a Young Ladies' Mu-
tual Improvement Association. Our Bish-
op, John T. Hart, and his First Counselor,
James F. Hunter, were present at our meet-
ing, and gave us some very valuable in-
structions upon being united, home indus-
try, and to let our clothing be the work-
manship of our own hands, and not follow
after the fashions of Babylon. Sisters, let
us awake from this slothfulness, and see
what we can do, by faith and prayer and
active work, in the line of our duty; bury
not in the earth the faculties assigned us
to improve upon, but trusting in the
power of God, who has promised to sustain
all those who strive in humility and meek-
ness to keep His commandments. Let us
come forward and do our duty, heedless of 
criticism. Do not let us content ourselves
with the idea that our help is not necessary,
that we have no ability, or talent, that can
be of any service in rolling forth the king-
dom of God. How many women have
thought they had no influence, that their
words and ideas were not of sufficient con-
sequence to make or mar another's happi-
ness, or that they were capable of helping
to establish those principles of truth re-
vealed from heaven in these last days; who
have lived and died without benefitting
those with whome they are connected.
Meanwhile, have they left any impression?
Yes, they certainly have! And this is, that
they let the golden opportunity pass, the
precious time go by, without developing
those inherent gems of worth and richness,
which the God of heaven implanted within
their souls to beautify and elevate mortal-
ity. Sisters, let us who still live, who have
yet a day of grace granted unto us, take
warning by those who have regretted in
their dying moments that they had not
lived better lives. Let us strive by faith to
do some good, to help our fellow creatures,
embracing within our grasp the living and
the dead—for this is one of the great fea-
tures of OUR TIME, that we can minister
for those who have not been favored of God
as we have been.	FRANCES B. HART.
	Alma, Weber Co., March 22, 1878.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		171


For the EXPONENT.
		FILIAL DUTY.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

Parents are the richest treasures
	Heaven on children can bestow;
Purest passions, sweetest pleasures
	From those sacred fountains flow.
Nor love's soft sigh, nor blush of beauty,
Are so sweet as filial duty.

Not the scent of budding roses,
	Not the tints of early day,
Nor all the fragrant spring discloses
	Breathing all the balm of May,
Nor love's soft sigh, nor blush of beauty,
Are so sweet as filial duty.

Lovers' words are very tender,
	Lovers' words are very sweet,
But through all they cannot render
	Joys so full and so complete.
Not love's soft sigh, nor blush of beauty,
Are so sweet as filial duty.

Blessings, many flow from wealth,
	Giving mighty power for good;
Legion are the sweets of health,
	Giving life its richest food;
But riches, health, and youth and beauty
Fail, if lacking filial duty.


For the EXPONENT.

		SCRIPTURE WOMEN.

	       BY HANNAH. T. KING.
			[continued.]

   "And the Syrians had gone out by com-
panies, and had brought away captive out
of the land of Israel a little maid, and she
waited on Naaman's wife."  Naaman was
greatly in favor with the king of Syria,
being Captain of the host, and was honor-
able, because by him the Lord had given
deliverance unto Syria; he was "also a
mighty man in valor," BUT "he was a
leper!" How often that little word BUT
causes the skeleton to walk out of the se-
cret closet, that every household, however
favored, possesses in a greater or less de-
gree! and it seems that the "little maid"
mourned over his affliction - for doubtless
they were kind and good to her, and she
loved them, and was grateful to them - and
she said to her mistress, "Would God, my
Lord were with the prophet that is in Sa-
maria, for he would recover him of his
leprosy."  These words were told to Naa-
man and led to an inquiry; this little maid
preached one of the gifts of the Gospel to
her mistress - the glorious gift of healing,
and the sequel was marvelous, for it brought
the afflicted man in contact with the pro-
phet of God, and by his obedience to his
words, he was healed!  The little maid be-
ing an instrument in the hand of God in
bringing about that glorious result; her
name is not even given, but her sex and
occupation is all that she is designated by
--but the meditative mind will draw her
picture, as a pure, affectionate, grateful and
appreciative child of God, and it is sweet
and beautiful in its brief simplicity, and
in its glorious immortality, and a subject
for contemplation by the young of every
age, and as an example to them to follow
and imitate.
   I have omitted some minor characters in
the Old Testament, though they are very
interesting and might be elaborated, but in
a small paper, brevity should be the motto
of every writer, as far as possible; it has
become an aphorism that "brevity is the
soul of wit."  I now pass on to the Apocry-
pha, and describe a noble woman, whose
deeds of valor have immortalized her
name.
   I refer to the character of Judith, - a
most remarkable one.  In these days, when
women have become degenerated and ef-
feminate by ease, refinement and luxury,
we can hardly realize the grandeur of such
a character as Judith, where piety of the
highest order, elegance of manners, dress
and address, are all blended with the un-
flinching hardihood of the boldest heroism,
and where every step is taken as in the
very presence of her God and under his
sanction and approval!  Her diplomacy for
the honor and salvation of her nation and
people, is of the most refined and exalted
character; her tact, her address, her
prayers, her movements are all made as
with the All-seeing eye upon her!  All this
and much more is subject for deep contem-
plation; and be it ever borne in mind there
was no murder in her act; she shed not one
drop of innocent blood; Holoferness was the
avowed enemy of her people, waiting only
for the opportunity to destroy them; he
was a foul-minded man, meditating her
seduction.  But in all her interviews with
him, she held him by, as it were, a fasci-
nation; her beauty, her heroic virtue, made
him virtually her slave!  Let woman ever
bear in mind that a pure, chaste and good
woman, with tact and talent, can hold even
a libertine at arm's length, and he can no
more touch her rudely than he could touch
an angel!  Such a character awakens the
dormant divinity in the nature of man,
and has been often known to wield a power
over him that has called out the glory of
his manhood, crushed down the low pas-
sions that have obtained the mastery over
him, and raised him upon a platform from
which he has never again descended.  Has
woman this mighty power?  Yes, indeed,
she has, if she only knew the nature God
has given her!  Judith delineates this char-
acter in a remarkable degree; of course,
the Spirit of God ever attends such charac-
ters, and in His strength they conquer.
In her glorious song of triumph she says,
speaking of what Holoternes intended to
do, - "But the Almighty Lord hath disap-
pointed them, by the hand of a woman!"
The women crowned her with an olive
wreath - the emblem of victory - and "she
went before all the people in the dance,
leading all the women; and all the men
of Israel followed in their armor, with gar-
lands, and songs in their mouths."  Then
follows the song of Judith, which is full
of all that constitutes a Saint of God, and a
soldier of Christ!  And the people gave
her all the riches of Holofernes, which she
gave "for a gift unto the Lord."  And after
the great feasting and rejoicing which
were made by the people in her honor, she
returned into her own possessions, being
held in honor by the whole country.  She
remained a widow to the day of her death,
when they buried her in the love of her
husband, Mauasses, she being one hundred
and five years old.
   In contemplating this character, Joan
D'Arc, Charlotte Corday and others of the
same caste, rise before us, and we feel they
are of the same constellation.
   Mary, the mother of Jesus, is the first
woman named in the New Testament, but
few words are used to introduce her, but
how full are those words! a volume in every
sentence!  There is something very strik-
ing in the sublime brevity of Scripture; in
a few verses her history is given, her line-
age, the salutation of the angel, and nearly
all is told.  A few words are used in after
times respecting her, which give a key to
the purity and contemplative tendency of
her mind and character.  She appears once
with her Savior-Son at the marriage in
Cana of Galilee; and she is at the foot of
His cross on Mount Calvary, in the last tre-
mendous hour of His earthly pilgrimage!
Yes, and she is among his last thoughts - in
almost his last words he committs her to
the care of One whom he knew would carry
out His last Will and Testament.  When
the heart is full, but few words are ever
used!  And when addressing One in whom
we have entire confidence, a look, accom-
panied by a few words, conveys a volume!
Hence the Savior only said, looking at His
chosen disciple and friend, "Behold thy
mother!" and turning to her, "Behold thy
Son!" "and from that hour that disciple
took her to his own home."  After the cru-
cifixion we hear no more of her - when
she died, or where interred, no mention is
made! - But millions, in their mistaken
zeal, have worshipped her, and do this
very day, addressing her as Mary, Mother
of God!  The angel's salutation is enough--
"Hail! thou  art highly favored! blessed
art thou among women, for thou has found
favor with God!"


COMPARATIVE SENTENCES FOR
MEN AND WOMEN.

	Mary Sullivan, the poor girl in New
York who left her child wrapped in her
shawl on a stoop, and pleaded before the
Justice, "I loved my child, but I had no
place to care for it," was sentenced by Re-
corder Hackett to three years in the peni-
tentiary for abandoning her child. What
about punishment for the man who "aban-
doned" both mother and child?"
	On the other hand, Christian Ohlandt,
proprietor of a low liquor saloon in the
same city, who, finding a sick and half
crazed woman in the street, Mrs. Addie
Oakman, enticed her into his shop and out-
raged her, was sentenced by Judge Gilder-
sleeve to "eighteen months imprisonment."
And this week, Robert Baker, indicted for
bigamy, who admitted in the Court of Ses-
sions that within the last three or four
years he had married three wives, was sen-
tenced to the penitentiary for four years.
	Only eighteen months' imprisonment for
ruining an innocent woman for life, under
circumstances of the basest deception and
falsehood! Only four years for ruining
three women, and casting them and their
children on the world, disgraced, nameless
and homeless! These are the fruits of
men's laws for women!	E. A. A.
	Portland, Me.,—Ex.


THERE are two difficulties of life—men
are disposed to spend more than they can
afford, and to indulge more than they can
endure.

	PRAISE is seldom paid with willingness,
even to incontestible merit; and it can be
no wonder that he who calls for it without
desert, is repulsed with universal indigna-
tion.

	GOOD breeding is a guard upon the tongue;
the misfortune is, that we put it on and off
with our fine clothes and visiting faces, and
do not wear it where it is wanted—at home!

	WOMEN.—Perhaps one reason why wo-
men bear affliction—as I believe they gen-
erally do—better than men, is because they
make no attempt to fly from the cause of
it, but betake themselves patiently to the
duties, however painful, which they are to
perform. It is the old emblem of the reed
and the oak; they bend, and therefore they
are not broken; and then comes peace of
mind, which is the fruit of resignation.—
"Southey's Life."


172		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates. Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL. 15, 1878.


[Column 1]<th'e departed.="" at="" the="" grave,="" brest,="" of="" stakp,="" angus="" m="" cannon="" deliv-="" ered="" a="" dedicatory="" prayer’,="" cohsefcrating="" tpot="" and="" praying="" that="" god="" wduld="" comfoitthe="" hearts="" those="" who="" mourrled.="" perhaps="" all,="" this="" was="" most'trying="" scene,="" for="" many="" vd="" hro:="" hail="" contained="" themselves="" np="" to="" me-="" went="" could="" restrain="" no="" longer;="" and'broke'forth="" into="" tears="" piteous="" sobs,="" riiinglihg="" with="" i="" '="" -1="" t="" n'n="" kt="" f="" rl="" d="" were="" paid="" the,="" deceased,and="" all="" siowly="" .eadly'tumed="" .to="" depart.1="" “eoathi="" ere="" thou="" hast="" siain="" adother,="" -="" (7;="" fair="" learned="" good="" ps="" she;="" tlmesball="" have="" thrown="" dart="" thee,"="" miss="" emma="" wells="" born="" in!="" this'city,="" septemper="" 10,1853,="" one="" pioneer="" children="" utah.="" even="" as="" child="" she="" evinced="" qualities="" heart="" mind="" which,="" dur-="" ing="" jater="" years,="" endeared="" her="" ,fo="" whoso="" for-="" tune="" it="" has="" been="" enjoy="" society;="" developed="" wpmanhood="" seemed="" eyery="" attribute="" which="" draws="" towards="" its.possessor,="" had="" found="" home,="" within="" breast.="" earjy="" .b.ecame="" teacher="" la="" m.="" e.="" cook's="" graded="" school,="" continuing,sq="" number="" same="" kindnessin-="" genuousness="" humor="" made="" beloved="" by="" ecbolais="" won="" love="" admiration="" associate="" teachers,="" character-="" ized="" evey="" act="" life.="" not="" only="" in="" but="" every="" other="" respect="" 'she="" cherished="" esteemed.="" societies="" improvement="" intellectual="" development="" ever="" took="" most="" active="" promlnent="" part,'="" from="" incipiency="" wasatcli="" literary’="" associa-="" tion="" of1="" its="" lead-="" members.="" is="" wrong="" we="" should="" weep="" such="" loss?="" can="" here="" be="" any="" bin="" mourning="" whose="" compassion="" poor="" become="" proverbial?="" nature="" guch="" entered="" wholly="" afflictions="" others.and="" forgot="" individual="" grievances="" solicitations="" their="" weal?="" whose,="" charity="" that,="" “e’pn.hcr="" failings="" leaned="" fo="" yirtop&slde."="" wbese="" sympathy="" wa3="" laboring="" wel-="" fare="" race?="" appreciation="" beautlful.in="" nature,="" art'="" music="" poetry="" exquisite?="" enjoyment="" life="" happiness="" inspired="" vith="" kindred="" feeling?="" earnestness="" putposojihlegrity="" character,="" adherence="" principle,="" gospel,="" filial="" duty,="" implicit="" faith="" reverence="" fo?="" eternal="" father="" out-="" growth="" an="" angelic="" nature?="" no!="" cannot="" think="" so.="" gave="" these="" ts,="" expects="" shall="" them="" rdpurnheir="" loss;="" but'="" moderation="" gnd="" in1="" his="" all-="" ii="" b="">
IN MEMORIAM.

A TRIBUTE OF AFFECTION.

O fitting time to weep with April show'rs—
	That buds and blossoms may spring forth from tears;
And bursting into beauty fragrant flow'rs
	Twine with the cypress bough through coming years,
Emblems, that we who mourn may find relief
	And joy immortal, crown our night of grief.
									EMILE.

	Death has stolen from the wreath of our
friendship one of its fairest and most fragrant
flowers. Oftentimes the heart's deepest foun-
tains are opened and the pitiful sorrow, the
love, the friendship, the undying affection, the
promises of a life, the burial of hopes cherish-
ed for years, all—all find expression in scald-
ing tears that well up from the depths of
life's fountains. And so our hearts have been
opened, and one near and dear to us taken
from our midst.
	Last Monday evening a few minutes before
eight o'clock, the spirit of Miss Emma Wells,
daughter of Counselor D. H. and Mrs. E. B.
Wells, departed from its earthly tabernacle.
The sickness that had such an unlooked for
and melancholy termination, was of about
three weeks duration, and until but a few
hours before her demise had not assumed any
very alarming phase, and even until it was
positively ascertained that she was no more,
the faith of many in her ultimate recovery re-
mained unshaken. It would be a vain endeav-
or to attempt to picture the scene at the bed-
side of death, or to describe the feelings
awakened by the tears, moans, sobs and al-
most hopeless grief of her parents, sisters, broth-
ers, and friends, as in the depths of sorrow,
they awaited her release from earth, nor
would we desire to do so were it in our power;—
heaven forbid that we should awaken in other
hearts, the sorrow of our own, which must
necessarily result from a description of the
scene. Quietly she passed away and a smile of
sweetest expression o'erspread her pale features.
The funeral services took place on Thursday
morning, at 11 o'clock, from the residence of
her parents, and a large assembly of relatives
and loving friends gathered to attend the last
rites over the remains of this loved one. The
coffin was literally covered with beautiful and
fragrant flowers, the emblematic tokens of
friends, artistically arranged in wreaths, in
bouquets, and in festoons, draping the coffin in
Spring loveliness. Beneath the coffin lay her
guitar, garlanded with delicate flowers and
evergreens intertwined. A few of her dear
friends of the Tabernacle choir opened the ser-
vices, their voices mournfully pouring forth
music eloquent with sorrow. Bishop Woolley
offered the opening prayer, again the
choir sang, and Apostle Joseph F. Smith

[Column 2]
arose to deliver the funeral discourse. He
took his text from the book of Doctrine
and Covenants, quoting at some length from
the revelation pertaining to the different de-
grees of glory awarded in the life to come.
This he followed by bearing an undeniable tes-
timony to the truth of our faith, and spoke
with such beauty, compassion and force upon
the certainty of a future life that his remarks
thrilled every one present. The address was
brief, expressive and appropriate. Again the
choir sang, after which Bishop Lorenzo D.
Young offered a prayer which was most beau-
tiful and touching; and the services ended. The
friends then slowly passed to take a last look of
their beloved companion, whom they could
scarcely see through their tears; the coffin was
borne by the pall bearers to the hearse,
the pr[-]cession formed in quietness; selemni-
nity and order, and all moved toward the si-
lent resting place of the departed. At the
grave, Prest. of Stake, Angus M Cannon deliv-
ered a dedicatory prayer, consecrating the
spot and praying that God would comfort the
hearts of those who mourned. Perhaps of
all, this was the most trying scene, for many
who had contained themselves up to that mo-
ment could restrain no longer, and broke forth
into tears and piteous sobs, mingling with
those already weeping, and making it, indeed,
a most heart-rending picture. The sexton ful-
filled his office, the last tributes of bleeding
hearts were paid to the deceased, and all slowly
and sadly turned to depart.

		"Death, ere thou hast slain another,
		Fair and learned and good as she,
		Time shall have thrown a dart at thee,"

	Miss Emma Wells was born in this city,
Septemper 10, 1853, and was one of the pioneer
children of Utah. Even as a child she evinced
those qualities of heart and mind which, dur-
ing later years, endeared her to all whose for-
tune it has been to enjoy her society; and as
she developed into womanhood it seemed that
every attribute which draws all hearts towards
its possessor, had found a home within her
breast. She early became a teacher in Miss
M. E. Cook's graded school, continuing so for
a number of years, and the same kindness, in-
genuousness and humor that made her beloved
by her scholars and won for her the love and
admiration of her associate teachers, character-
ized every act of her life. Not only in this but
in every other respect was she cherished and
esteemed. In all societies for improvement
and intellectual development she ever took a
most active and prominent part, and from the
incipiency of the Wasatch Literary Associa-
tion had been one of its most active and lead-
ing members. And is it wrong that we should
weep for such a loss? Can there be any sin in
mourning for one whose compassion for the
poor had become proverbial? whose nature was
such that it entered wholly into the afflictions
of others and forgot individual grievances in
solicitations for their weal? Whose charity
was such that,

	"E'en her failings leaned to virtue's side."

whose sympathy was ever laboring for the wel-
fare of her race? whose appreciation of all that
was beautiful in nature, art music and poetry
was the most exquisite? whose enjoyment of
life and happiness inspired all with a kindred
feeling? whose earnestness of purpose, integrity
of character, adherence to principle, love of the
Gospel, filial duty, and implicit faith in and
reverence for the Eternal Father were the out-
growth of an angelic nature? No! We cannot
think so. God gave these to us, and expects
that we shall enjoy them and mourn their loss;
but with a moderation and faith in His All-

[Column 3]
wise purpose which she herself would have
evidenced and admonished.
	It is said "The bier is the cradle of heaven,"
and we who believe this should find consola-
tion in the faith. The holy dead! how many
have gone, whose walk in life has been the ad-
miration of all who knew them? How good,
how pure, how happy are they—the blessed
dead. "It might make one in love with death,"
to know that we shall meet them when our
time has come to go. Is not, oh! is not this a 
balm for woe?

	"These taught us how to live, and oh! too high
	A price for knowledge, taught us how to die."

	Is not the hope, the faith, the knowledge
that if we live aright we shall again be partak-
ers of the pleasures of their society, sufficient
to induce us to emulate one whose sweetness of
disposition, like the fragrance of flowers, per-
vaded the atmosphere, and shed an indescrib-
able balm, that was felt and acknowledged by
all who came within her sphere? Whose kind-
ness of heart was

					"Like the sweet south,
		That breathes upon a bank of violets,
		Stealing and giving odor?

and whose purity of soul was such, that, com-
pared with it, snow would lose its whiteness.
Here is a noble incentive, and oh! let us labor
for so bright and promising and so joyful an
end. So long as virtue is admired, so long as a
love of our fellow creatures is cherished, so
long as compassion warms the heart, so long as
patience, truth, intelligence, principle, charity
and contentment exist within our hearts, so
long as we have faith in the innate goodness
of the human, and are loth to think or say ill
of another, so long as sympathy for distress
can move blue-eyed sympathy to tears, so long
will her memory remain engraven on our
hearts; for they but serve as a remembrance of
one who was possessed of them all.
								A FRIEND.

	No flower so fair, but it must fade and die;
		No star so bright but it must sink to rest;
	No gift so precious from the worlds on high,
		But it may pass from those who love it best.

	But blessed hope, sweet promises bestowed
		On hearts that else must break, but for this cheer;
	We'll find our darlings in a safe abode,
		Nor lose again as we have lost them here.

	Oh! cherished girl, fair, gentle and refined,
		Beloved of those who love the pure and true;
	Beseech our God, that they may be resigned;
		And comforted, sweet one, who mourn for you!

	Remembering he can no injustice do,
		"Too wise to err, too good to be unkind."
												LUL.


HINTS TO THE YOUNG.

	Often, in this life of toil and preparation, we
find those most gifted in many respects, accom-
plishing the least amount of good to them-
selves and for the world. The chief causes of
these unsatisfactory results, may be considered
want of application and misapplication.
	Time is allowed to pass almost unheeded by
some, who vainly imagine they find as much
happiness in ease and idleness as they would
in anything else. Yet the merciful Creator has
given them brains to exercise, and hands to
work with, just the same as the most industri-
our possess.
	And again, many studious thinkers and hard
workers are thinking and working in the
wrong direction. Even here among the cho-
sen and favored people of God, may be found
those who labor incessantly for the vain and
perishable things of earth. We do not antici-
pate, in this short article, to approach any who
are thus, already turned away from the
"straight and narrow path." But if we may


chance to reach the hearts of some of our
young brothers and sister, to whom a few
hints on these subjects may not come amiss,
we shall have accomplished our purpose.
	To our young friends then—children of Lat-
ter-day Saint parentage,—we will offer an ex-
hortation: That you try to realize the high pos-
ition to which your birth entitles you. You
have no need to seek, through any talents or
graces with which God has blest you, to gain
wealth or power or popularity in the eyes of
the world. Let your high ambition and noble
aims be to sustain the position you already oc-
cupy as members in the kingdom of God.
Give cheerfully the time and talents, with
which He blesses you, to His service, and sure-
ly no good or desirable thing will be withheld
from you.
	While you are yet young and inexperienced,
let the voice of your parents be the voice of
God to you; follow its dictates and you will
not be led astray.
	Let your religious duties be first with you in
all things. When you undertake to accom-
plish any good thing, begin with asking the
blessings of the Lord upon your efforts. And
when you have succeeded, before congratula-
ting yourself, thank Him for His divine assist-
ance.
	Sometimes people talk about the sacrifices
they have made for the Gospel's sake. But the
Gospel contains so mnch that is desirable, that
to gain a knowledge of it—a testimony of its
truth—is worth everything beside.
								L. G. R.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		173


[Column 1]
HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE STAKE and General Conferences lately
held in this city, were attended by large and
attentive congregations.
	The Quarterly Conference for the Salt Lake
Stake of Zion was held, pursuant to appoint-
ment, on Friday the 5th inst. The reading of
Statistical and other Reports, and present-
ing of the Stake authorities occupied most of
the time both forenoon and afternoon.
	We have on hand for publication, Reports
from Wellsville, Herriman, Springville, Ran-
dolph, West Jordan, Heber, Eisincre, and oth-
ers, also articles, essays, poetry, obituary no-
tices, which are unavoidably laid over for want
of space.

	MRS. WIGNELL of Payson has succeeded in
manufacturing some articles from native silk
of an excellent quality. The cocoons were
raised by her, the reeling and manufacturing
all completed at home. The articles were
shown us by Mrs. Zina D. Young, President
of the Deseret Silk Association, and consisted
of a veil, a pair of ladies' mitts, a pair of gloves,
and two neckties of different shades and pat-
tern. The veil was very elegant, fit for a
queen. Mrs Wignell certainly deserves com-
mendation for her industry and perseverance,
and we hope and trust her excellent example
may be followed by many.
	At the General Conference, which opened at
10 a. m., Saturday 6th, nearly all the leading
church authorities were present. A great deal
of good instruction was offered from the breth-
ren on the stand during each of the three days
conference.
	Monday forenoon Statistical Reports from all
the Stakes in Zion were read. In the after-
noon, the names of missionaries and of the
Church authorities were presented to the peo-
ple for acceptance. After which the Confer-
ence adjourned until the 6th of October next,
10 o'clock a. m. A very pleasing and interest-
ing feature of the Conference was the good or-
er and quietness maintained by the vast con-
gregations.

[Column 2]
	THE MALEFIC diseases which have prevailed
so generally among the children for some years
past, have been extremely severe during the
last few months. Not only the little ones, but
older people also seem to have suffered
greatly under these bodily afflictions. And in
so many instances have the grave forms of dis-
ease assumed fatal termination, that almost
every family has been called to mourn the loss
of members, relatives, or near and dear friends.
To us it appears that every Latter-day Saint
should consider this matter of so much im-
portance, that daily petitions should be offer-
ed, that God will turn away this terrible
scourge from His people, and give them the
wisdom n[-]cessary for temporal as well as spir-
itual salvation.

	WE ARE pleased to announce to our readers
and the public generally that Mrs. Ellis R
Shipp of this city, who has been for some time
a student at the Woman's Medical College,
Philadelphia, has returned home, having ta-
ken the degree of physician and received a
diploma to practice in the profession. Dr.
Shipp has made diseases of women and ob-
stetrics a specialty, and has taken great care
to inform herself by practical work in the hos-
pital belonging to the College. This young
M. D. is a woman of most pleasing appearance,
attractive manners and possesses a warm gen-
erous heart, which will render her a most de-
sirable practitioner among the sick; added to
all her knowledge and estimable qualities of
heart and mind she is a woman of God. These
qualifications should be sufficient to obtain for
her an extensive field of labor and usefulness
here in Zion. We have now several lady
physicians of merit, ability and superior
attainments, and we most earnestly recom-
mend to our sisters the efficient help of these
good, noble women where medical aid is need-
ed. The office of Dr. E. R. Shipp will for the
present be at her residence in the 11th Ward of
this ci[-]y.

	ELDER O. F. WHITNEY, whos[-] letters and
other articles written during his mission, our
readers will remember, returned home on the
first of the present month. Elder Whitney
left Salt Lake City Nov. 6th, 1876 in company
with Elder A. M. Musser, with whom he la-
bored in Penn. five months, where they met
with bitter opposition from people, pulpit and
press: a few persons seemed inquiring and fav-
orably inclined but they did not suceeed in
making any converts. April 8, 1877, Elder
Whitney left Pennsylvania for Ohio, where
many of his father's relatives reside, who
treated him with the greatest courtesy and
kindness. In that State he baptized sixteen
persons and converted several others, who had
not the courage to embrace the Gospel in face
of the opposition and hatred of the world.
During his absence he visited Chicago, Wash-
ington, Cleveland and other large cities. The
Lord has blessed his labors and he has return-
ed home rejoicing in the spirit of truth and
light. Among his converts was Mrs. H. C.
Norton M. D., a lady of superior cultivation
and attainments, and of very high reputation
as a physician, especially to ladies and child-
ren. This lady has had an extensive experi-
ence in the profession—was three years in prac-
tice in the Hospitals of St. Petersburg. Dr.
Norton anticipates coming to Utah to reside
during the present year.


THE most corrective punishment is kind
ness.
	QUEEN KAPIOLANI, of the Sandwich Is-
lands, has sent a calabash of exquisite pol
ished wood to Mrs. Hayes.


OBITUARIES.

					KAMAS, March 26th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT.

	It is our sad duty to record the death of our
dearly beloved sister Lavina B. Mitchell, who
died in Kamas March 22nd, 1878, of inflama-
tion of the lungs. She had been a member of 
the church for many years, and had passed
through many of the persecutions of the
Saints. She had embraced the principle of
Celestial Marriage in which she lived a true
and noble life. Rearing children and teaching
them the true principles of the gospel, was a
duty that she dearly loved and cheerfully per-
formed. One orphan child she took at the age
of three months and nursed him as her own,
the maternal love was scarcely discernible
from that which she felt for her own offspring,
and deeply and truly was her love returned. She
bore twelve children five of whom died in in-
fancy One, her eldest daughter had died two
months previous to her mother's decease. This
was a dreadful blow to the fond mother, she
had often expressed herself satisfied with life
but now she prayed for life and strength that
she might help to care for the five motherless
children that her daughter had left. But God
had ordered otherwise and she has gone to
meet the reward of the noble deeds done in
the body. Her kind affectionate disposition
made her beloved by young and old. She
leaves a large circle of relatives and friends to
mourn her loss.
					MRS. LAURA C. PACK.

	SISTER POLLY Angell, wife of Truman O
Angell, a widely known and highly esteemed
lady, died very suddenly at her residence in
the 13th Ward of this city, on the 1st of April.
The cause of death was supposed to have been
disease of the heart. Sister Angell was
among the pioneer women of the Latter-day
Work, and faithfully bore her part in the per-
secutions and hardships to which the Saints in
the early days of the church were subjected.
She was a friend to the poor and always ready
to succor and comfort the distressed. Among
the many friends and relatives left to mourn
for her, including children and grand-child-
ren, none, perhaps, will feel her loss so keenly
as Miss Polly Tollman, an orphaned grand-
daughter and namesake of the deceased, who
had for years resided with, and been all almost
constant companion to her. Our most sincere
sympathies are with this young lady. The fu-
neral services were conducted at the 13th Ward
Assembly Rooms on Thursday, the 4th inst.,
and were largely attended. Addresses were
made by Bishop Woolley, Elders John W.
Young, F. Little and Truman O. Angell. All
testified to the excellent character and fine per-
sonal qualities of the deceased. Sister Angell
was 64 years, 9 months and 26 days, old when
she died.


A LITERARY society at Delaware, O., has
a letter written by Horace Greeley, in 1849,
in which he thus refers to his educational
attainments: "I know a little newspaper
Latin and French, and might have mastered
a little Greek the same way, if the bar-
barians had known enough to use an intel-
ligible alphabet. Of mathematics I learned
what is contained in Adam's arithmetic;
of grammar, just enough to see clearly that
Lindley Murray knew very little and blun-
dered shockingly. As to chirography,
mine speaks for itself, not clearly as to mat-
ter, but quite distinctly enough as to man-
ner."


174		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


FINANCIAL REPORT.

	Of the Relief Societies of Salt Lake
County, from the date of their organization
in the various wards to the 15th of March,
1878.
Receipts, in cash and merchan-
	dize........................................$54,877. 82
Disbursed to those requiring
	assistance..............................  22,203.37
To P. E. Fund.................................     2,453.88
To Temples....................................    1,523.22
To Missionary Fund......................       948.27
To books........................................       145.50To buildings...................................  11,961.70
To Sundries...................................   10,601.36
Property on hand.........................     4,083.21
Wheat stored amounting to........    2,397.81
	Through the changing of officers in some
of the Societies, the Reports have not been
as full and complete as desired, in conse-
quence of which discrepancies appear.
	It is expected before the next Quarterly
Conference due notice will be given the
Secretaries, that all the Wards in the Coun-
ty may be properly represented.
		M. I. HORNE, President,
		ELIZABETH HOWARD, Secretary.


[Column 1]
NIGHT.

	Night is welcomed by the tired and
weary. Where one has been working hard
all day long, with what eager anticipations
the night is looked forward to, when our
weary bodies can rest in sweet sleep, until
the dawn of another day. The young and
the gay like to spend the evening hours of
the bright moonlight nights in pleasure of
some kind, and some take delight in tak-
ing "a ramble on a starry night;" but night
is e best appreciated by those who have
worked hard all day; they feel like ex-
claiming "Blessed boon! given that we
might rest from the toils and cares of the
day just past, and lie down through the
calm, still night, in sweet repose, forgetful
of all that is past, or that which is to come."
	Nights are sometimes really beautiful
and majestic, and others are dark and give
a solemn awe unto all nature. If we go
out on a clear, cold night and look at the
dark blue heavens, what a picture of perfect
beauty meets our eyes. There, stretched
out to our gaze, is one vast polished mirror,
with countless millions of twinkling stars
bedecking the whole; and perchance while
you are gazing at the wonders of that 
splendid scene, one or two brilliant orbs
may shoot across the heavens with light-
ning speed, leaving behind a streak of
golden light.
Then comes the bright, full moon slowly
creeping behind yonder mountain. Blessed
light of night! Thou art welcome. thrice
welcome to the weary traveler, who is toil-
ing wearily along o'er rugged mountain
roads, where it would be unsafe to go, if it
were not for the silvery light of the blessed
moon.
	I remember going upon a short trip, with
my father, to Pine Valley. After we had
passed the Twist and traveled some dis-
tance along the sandy road, I (being very
timid of the natives, and my mind wrought
up by imagination) felt alarmed. The
bright moonlight shone upon the white and
red sandstone hills and mountains, which
here and there would be left in utter dark-
ness by the solemn shadows. I laid down
in the wagon and tried to sleep, but in
vain, for every dark shade of a mountain,
tree, or shrub, would be shaped into Indi-
ans in my mind; I could distinctly hear

[Column 2]
their tread, and with almost breathless
specch would tell father that there were
lots of Indians around. He looked out but
failed to discover any. Then I would sit
up and strain my eyes to find their hiding
place, and wondered where they had fled.
Thus imagination kept my mind in the 
greatest horror and dread. That night was
not one of pleasure but one of terror, until
we camped, and sweet sleep visited my eye-
lids.
	In the colder North, on winter evenings,
there are many joyful crowds of young
folks, with warm blankets and furs, snugly
seated in sleighs and cutters, the horses
well decked with numbers of tiny bells, as
away they bound over the crust of the
beautiful snow, the bells filling the air with
music, making, as it were, more complete
joy for the merry crowd.
There are many enjoyments for the young
on winter evenings—lectures and other lit-
erary entertainments are devised for their 
benefit, and on such occasions they may
learn many good things; the dance and
theatre are great sources of amusement.
Home must not be forgotten, for around
the cheerful fireside, there are many hap-
py times, with the good counsel of father
and mother, plenty of good books to read,
and many social pleasures for those who
appreciate "Home, sweet home."
								E. S.


[Column 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

	SALT RIVER, March 26th, 1878.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	We have been encamped on the beauti-
ful river now nearly two months, it is about
twice as large as Bear River, clear and
beautiful to look at, but brackish to the
taste, though not unpleasant now that we
have become accustomed to it, and do not
mind it. The company have had good
health generally speaking, but some are
complaining now, I suppose because they
are getting acclimated.
	There have been born to Brother Cris-
mon on the journey, a daughter, a grand-
daughter and great granddaughter, they
are at present three beautiful babes and are
growing finely.
	This country affords a broad field for re-
flection and thought, there are traces of its
having at some period been a densely pop-
ulated country; and there seems to have
been three distinct grades, or races of peo-
ple, which the present tribes know nothing
of. There is an old ruin about twelve miles
from here, built something after the man-
ner of an old English castle, though it is
now nearly destroyed; the mote around the
pile is clearly defined. Our company are
taking a ditch out of the river to intersect
an old canal which runs twenty or thirty
miles through what has been farms and cul-
tivated lands, so level and even that one
can see away down to the Gila. The land
sloping gradually from the Salt River to
the Gila. The canal is as clearly defined as
the Cottonwood canal is, except near the
river which has changed its course and
washed the land upon its banks. The pres-
ent people know nothing of the builders;
they can only tell us that they lived and
died many hundred years ago. The native
population are mostly Mexicans, or a mixed
race; they are a very indolent, thriftless
people, one frequently sees houses looking
as though they had been built many years
without evidence of ever having had eith-
er doors or windows; naked and bare, with-
out vine, tree or shrub for ornament or com-

[Column 2]
fort, barely a shelter and nothing more.
There are some white men with Mexican
wives but they seem to have imbibed more
or less of the habits and tastes of the
"Greasers." There are a few wealthy white
men in the country who own and control
some very good farms.
	There are two or three Indian villages five
miles from our camp, the Indians are farm-
ing, but in a very primitive way; they plow
with a crooked stick, and lash a stick to
the oxens horns' for a yoke. I cannot see
as they are in any way superior to the sav-
age tribes of the north, either in intelligence
or cleanliness; they seem harmless, except
in thieving small things, and killing some
poor, worn-out stock for food. They are
the Pimos and Maricopas with a few oth-
er small tribes, and splits from these, each
having a name of their own.
	In a country where vegetables will grow
the year round, there are scarcely any to be
bought; an old resident told me that she
had gathered tomatoes from the vine for
her Christmas dinner, by throwing a light
protection over the vines. The climate is
indeed beautiful, plants, trees and shrubs
are blooming and lovely, and it seems
more like June than March to us; although
we are living in tents and wagons, we suf-
fer no inconvenience from the weather. I
have not seen an EXPONENT since I left
Utah, I would feel like meeting an old
friend to see one.
	With kind love and best wishes to all I
remain,
	Yours, as ever,
		FRANCELLE E. ROBSON.


MEDICAL SCIENCE FOR WOMEN.

	In reading, the other day, a speech on
the Medical Education of Women, it struck
me that the most important reason for it
was, after all, one which the speaker had
not mentioned: the fact that the medical
profession stands for science; and that wo-
men peculiarly need science, since their
natural bent is supposed to be a little the
other way. The other professions repre-
sent tradition very generally; the lawyer
must be bound by precedents; the clergy-
man generally admits that he must go
back to his texts. But the physician claims,
at least, to be a man of science, and stands
for that before the world. Hence the sa-
credness with which his position has always
been surrounded. The Florida Indians, ac-
cording to the early voyagers, not only took
the physician's medicine, but they took
the physician himself internally, after his
death. All other men were buried, but the
body of the physician was burned and his
ashes mixed with water, for a permanent
prescription.
At any rate, the physician popularly
stands for science; and in this point of view
his position is really noble. I have known
physicians whose very materialism was
more elevated than most of what the world
calls religion. To trace that wondrous
power called life, which takes these parti-
cles of matter and makes them think with
thought or glow with passion or put forth
an activity so intense as to be the parent of 
new life from generation to generation, this
study is something sublime. He who rev-
erently ponders on this may call himself
theist or atheist, he is yet worthy to be re-
vered; if he can teach us, he blesses us.
"I touch heaven" said Novalis, "when I
lay my hand on a human body," and the
popularity among physicians of that fine
engraving of Vesalius standing ready for
his first dissection shows that they take a


higher view of their vocation than the
world sometimes admits.
	It seems to me peculiarly important that
women should have a share in these stud-
ies. They certainly often have time
enough. It takes more time for a woman
to make herself charming than to make
herself learned, Sidney Smith says; and he
thinks it a pity that she should often hang
up her brains on the wall in poor pictures,
or waft them into the air in poor music,
when they might be better employed. And
that they have the requisite gifts for medi-
cal study will be plain to any one who
reads the celebrated Essay of Buckle on
"the influence of women on the progress of
knowledge" and sees how he traces some
of the leading scientific discoveries of mod-
ern times, as those of Newton and Goethe,
to the exercise of that very faculty of quick
witted combination which is the character-
istic of women's minds. Nay, a great phys-
ician, Dr. Currie, says in his letters that
he always preferred to have an ignorant
patient bring his wife with him, because
he could always get more careful observa-
tion and quicker suggestions from the wo-
man. This point lies directly in the line
of medical education.
	This study lies also directly in their path
as prospective wives and mothers, and this
alone would furnish a sufficient reason for
it. A woman of superior gifts, who had
studied medicine, but never adopted it as
a profession, told me that the mere domes-
tic use of her knowledge had more than
repaid her for all the trouble it had cost.
For a man who should thus abandon the
pursuit, it would be of comparatively little
use, apart from the general training; but
for a woman, if she fulfills the more com-
mon duties of a woman's life, this early
knowledge will always be a source of direct
strength. This applies in a degree to sur-
gery also; and I have always wondered, in
view of the old proverb that a surgeon
should have "a lion's heart and a lady's
hand" why our professors did not oftener
aim at developing this heart, if need be,
in those who have the hand without train-
ing.		T. W. H.
—"Woman's Journal."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		175


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS.

THE LITTLE HEALTH OF LADIES.

BY FRANCES POWER COBB.

*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*	*

	We have now touched on the subject of
dress, which plays such an important part
in the health of women that it must here
be treated somewhat at length. A little
girl in a London Sunday School, being ask-
ed by a visitor "why God made the flowers
of the field?" replied (not unconscious of
the gorgeous paper poppy in her own bon-
net), "Please, ma'am, I suppose for patterns
for artificial flowers." One might antici-
pate some answer scarcely less wide of the
mark than that of this sophisticated little
damsel, were the question to be put to not
a few grown women, "Why do you wear
clothes?" Their most natural response
would obviously be, "To be in the fashion."
When we have visibly wandered a long
way from the path of reason, the best thing
we can do is to look back to the starting
point, and find out, if possible, where we
have diverged. In the matter of raiment
that starting-point is not hard to find—in-
deed, to mark it is only to state a series of
truisms.
	Human clothing has three "raisons

[Column 2]
d'etre," which, in order of precedence, are
these:
	I. HEALTH.
	II. DECENCY.
	III. BEAUTY.
	HEALTH demands—
	1. Maintenance of proper temperature of
the body by exclusion of excessive heat
and cold.
	2. Protection from injury by rain, snow,
dust, dirt, stones to the feet, insects, etc.
	3. Preservation of liberty of action to all
the organs of the body, and freedom from
pressure.
	DECENCY demands—
	4. Concealment of some portions of the
human frame.
	5. Distinction between the habiliments of
men and women, sufficient to avert mis-
take.
	6. Fitness for the age and character of
the wearer.
	7. Concealment, when possible, of any
disgusting personal defect.
	BEAUTY demands—
	8. Truthfulness. The dress must be gen-
uine throughout, without any false pads,
false hair, or false anything.
	9. Graceful forms of drapery.
	10. Harmonious colors.
	11. Such moderate consistency with pre-
vailing modes of dress as shall produce the
impression of sociability and sauvity, and
avoid that of self-assertion.
	12. Individuality: the dress suiting the
wearer as if it were an outer body belong-
ing to the same soul.
	Glancing back over the above table, we
find this curious fact: The dress of men in
all Western nations meets fairly all the con-
ditions of health and decency, and fails on-
ly on the side of beauty. The dress of wo-
men, on the contrary, ever variable as it is,
persistently misses the conditions of health;
frequently violates the rules of decency;
instead of securing beauty, at which it aims
first instead of last, achieves, usually ugli-
ness.
	It is to be remembered for our consola-
tion and encouragement that men have ar-
rived at their present good sense in dress
only within two or three generations. A
hundred years ago the lords of creation set
beauty above health or convenience, just
as the ladies do now, and peacocked about
in their peach-blossom coats and embroid-
ered waistcoats, surmounted by wigs, for
whose stupendous discomfort even a seat
on the judicial bench can scarcely reconcile
the modern Englishman. Now, when the
men of every European nation have abjur-
ed such fantastic apparel, we naturally ask:
Why have not the women followed their
example? Why is the husband, father
and brother, habited like a being who has
serious interests in life, and knows that his
personal dignity would be forfeited were
he to dress himself in party-colored, be-rib-
boned garments, and why is the wife,
mother, or sister, bedizened like a macaw,
challenging every observer to note how
much of her time, thoughts and money,
must have been spent on this futile object?
The answer is one which is not pleasant to
make, discreditable as it is to both sexes.
The women who set the fashions dress for
admiration; and men like women who dress
to be admired; and the admiration given
and received is a very poor and unworthy
admiration, not much better than a salmon
gives to a glittering artificial fly, and hav-
ing very little more to do with any real
aesthetic gratification—as is proved too
clearly by the thoroughly unbeautiful de-
vices to which fashion has recourse. It is
the well-got up woman (to borrow a very

[Column 3]
expressive phrase,) not the really well-
dressed woman, who receives by far the
greatest share of homage.
	And now let us see how all this concerns
the health of women—how much their
"petite sante" is due to their general neg-
lect to make health the first object of dress,
or even an object at all compared to fashion.
	Tight-lacing among habits resembles envy
among the passions. We take pride in all
the rest, even the idlest and worst, but
tight-lacing and an envious heart are
things to which no one ever confesses. A
small waist, I suppose, is understood to be-
long to that order of virtues which Aris-
totle decides ought to be natural and not
acquired, and the most miserable girl who
spends her days in a machine more cruel
(because more slowly murderous) than the
old "Maiden" of Seville, yet always a[-]sures
us, smiling through her martyrdom, that
her clothes are "really hanging about her!"
It would be waste of time to dwell on this
supreme folly. Mrs. Haweis, in her very
noteworthy new book, "The Art of Beauty,"
has given some exceedingly useful dia-
grams, showing the effects of the practice
on the internal organs and skeleton—dia-
grams which I earnestly recommend to the
study of ladies who may feel a "call." to
perform this sort of English suttee for a 
living husband. Mrs. Haweis says that
sensible men do not love wasps, and have
expressed to her their "overallishness"
when they behold them. Considering how
effectively they have hitherto managed to
display their disapproval whenever women
have attempted to introduce rational at-
tire, it is a pity, I think, that they do not 
"pronounce" a little more distinctly against
this literally moral folly.
	I have already alluded to the brain-heat-
ing chignons, just gone out of fashion after
a long reign of mischief; and along with
them should be classed the bonnets which
expose the forehead to the cold, while the
back of the head is stewed under its cush-
ion of false hair, and which have the still
more serious disadvantage of affording no
shelter to the eyes. To women to whom
the glare of the sun is permanently hurt-
ful to the sight, the necessity of wearing
these bonnets on pain of appearing singu-
lar, or affectedly youthful, constitutes al-
most a valid reason against living in Lon-
don. And the remedy, forsooth, is to hold
up perpetually a parasol!—a yet further in-
cumbrance to add to the care of the drag-
gling train, so that both arms may be occu-
pied during a whole walk, and of course
all natural case of motion rendered impos-
sible. In this, as in a dozen other silly
fashions, the women who have serious con-
cerns in life are hampered by the practice
of those who think of nothing but exhibit-
ing their persons. And ladies of limited
fortune, who live in small rooms and go
about the streets on foot or in cabs, are com-
pelled (if they wish to avoid being pointed
at) to adopt modes of dress whose sole
"raison d'etre" is that they suit wealthy
"grandes dame" who lounge in their ba-
rouches or display their trains over the
carpets of forty-feet-long drawing-rooms.
What snobbery all this implies in our whole
social structure! Some ten millions of wo-
men dress, as nearly as they can afford, in
the style fit at the most for five thousand!
	The practice of wearing "decollettee"
dresses, sinning equally as it does against
health and decency, seems to be gradually
receding—from ordinary dinners, where it
was universal twenty years ago, to special
occasions, balls, and court drawing-rooms.
But it dies hard, and may kill a good many
poor creatures yet, and entail on others the


life long bad health so naturally resulting
from the exposure of a large surface of the
skin to sudden chills.
	TO BE CONTINUED.
—Cotemporary Review.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE LITTLE ONES AND THE OLD
FOLKS.

	People in the strength and pride of youth,
and the vigor of life's prime, are liable to for-
get that the weaker portions of the human
family—the children and the aged—are great-
ly dependent upon them for care and comfort.
	We have even heard young mothers speak to
their children as though they were actually
great troubles, and as if to wait upon them and
attend to their little wants were among the
crosses and vexations of life.
	We have seen the aged and infirm neglected
by those who should have been their most pa-
tient and grateful ministers; and their desires
being looked upon as childish and whimsical,
treated with positive indifference.
	It is well for us to remember, when we are
grown to manhood and womanhood, and
have more or less to do in caring for children,
and aged friends or kinsfolk—that only a few
years ago, we were ourselves little children;
and then we had our little faults, and our ne-
cessities had to be looked after the same as
children in these days. And again, but a
short time hence, if we live, we shall be "old
folks," and need the same care and attention
that our grandpas and grandmas do now.
	LULA GREENE RICHARDS.


How a dyspeptic was cured.—"I was turned off
by the doctors as incurable, but one was kind
enough to give me some good advice, and it, to-
gether with my own judgment made me a well
man. That was fifteen years ago, and I am well
yet. The rule I followed was to avoid entirely
pork and lard, and anything cooked or fried with
it; also hard-boiled eggs, doughnuts, mince pies,
or any kind of pie, tarts, or pastry; also white
wheat flour, no matter how cooked tobacco, liquor,
molasses of all kinds, corn bread, pickles, and all
kinds of nuts. I lived on the following: Sound,
unbolted wheat flour, stirred into boiling milk,
and thickened to suit the taste, and eat with fresh
butter and white sugar, or the same made into
light bread, twelve hours old at least; cracked
wheat, boiled or roasted potatoes, warm, never
cold, fruit of all kinds, raw or cooked, soft-boiled
eggs, broiled and boiled beef and mutton, rice, rye,
honnny, with moderate use of vegetables, beets
and cabbage very moderate. Eat no cucumbers,
and if you need acid, use lemon juice, or unsweet-
ened lemonade. Have your meals regularly, and
eat nothing between meals. Stick to this twelve
or eighteen months, and you will be a well man.
—New York Ledger.


[Column 1]
SILKWORM EGGS FOR SALE
at the residence of
MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG,
State Road, 13th Ward.
Price $4 00 Per Ounce.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine: her stock of: Hats made from
the late[-]t Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every-
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment,
at moderate prices.
	Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
and Altered.

[Column 2]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.
The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOOK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descrptions.
			MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
AT
TEASDEL'S.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND ADDRESS—Main Street, over Dr.
Richards' Drug Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake C


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1878.	No. 23.


TO LU DALTON.

ANSWER TO "QUESTIONINGS" IN EXPONENT
OF APRIL 1st.

Thy piteous "questionings" touch an answering chord
	Within my soul, which fain would breathe reply,
If I perchance by some low, gentle word
	Might help to soothe thy spirit's yearning cry;
For well I know that doubts bring dire unrest
	And naught in common should they have with us,
For how by faith in God, can we be blest,
	Unless we yield to Him in perfect trust.

That man has carped, and warped a woman's sphere,
	To suit his selfish needs, is too well known,
Yet galling though it be to woman's ear—
	We must admit the fault is part her own,
For has she not with free and gracious will,
	Such service rendered to the ones beloved,
Nor counted costs to future ages, till
	Man thinks her lack of agency is proved.

But sister, do not shrink from Heaven's decree,
	'Twas Christ the man-child came the world to save,
Thine Elder Brother died for you and me,
	That we might rise triumphant from the grave.
Methinks that he who brings the clay to life
	Mnst not be far removed from Christ's Estate
To claim from death his sister, friend or wife
	And pilot them,through the Celestial gate.

Should he to whom thy love and truth is given
	(And his to thee) should he I say aspire
To be as perfect as the Lord in heaven
	And call thee forth from death, wouldst then seek
		higher?

O breathe no thought of doubt in thy babe's ears
Nor tell her thy chafed heart's bewildering fears,
Break not the magic charm of infant trust,
Nor sow the seeds of canker, moth or rust,
But gently plant love's own immortal germ,
Too soon hard lessons she will have to learn,
And teach her trust in God's unfaltering will,
That her earth-mission she may nobly fill.

Though tardy justice may be long delayed,
	Our cause no longer lingers in the rear,
And Woman's onward course can not be stayed,
	Though man, reluctant, turns her plea to hear,
And in that life where we may hope to gain
	A respite from this world of pain,
Methinks where all is holy, pure and free,
	"Our Rights" will sink in Perfect Liberty.

	QUERY.
April 11th, 1878.


[Column 1]
HEALTH AND DANCING.

	Next to moral and religious virtues,
health should be regarded as the greatest
blessing we can claim from God. And one
of our sacred duties is to prize and guard
this precious boon, as one which through
carelessness or mismanagement, may be
easily and irretrievably lost.
	The indifference shown by many, espec-
ially among the young, to the importance
of preserving health, must be grievous in
the sight of that kind and merciful Father
whose will it is to shower blessings upon
His children. Yet, the majority of sins in
these respects are, doubtless committed ig-
norantly; hence the marvelous goodness
still extended, which preserves life and
prevents injuries in thousands of cases
where unseen or unheeded dangers threat-
en. Still, nature's laws are most impera-
tive and save in instances of special provi-
dence, must be obeyed. In all ordinary
cases they cannot be broken, whether ig-
norantly or otherwise, but the transgressor
must pay the penalty.
	How carefully should our young people
be taught concerning these things! How

[Column 2]
deeply should their minds be impressed
with a sense of the extreme folly and ac-
tual sin of ignoring the laws of health!
They should be brought to learn and profit
by the experience of others, as far as possi-
ble, and not left to risk life and health in
gaining knowledge for themselves. True,
many things can only be realized and un-
derstood through practical experience; but
a great deal that is useful and necessary in
life, the young may obtain by observation,
reflection and giving heed to the admoni-
tions of their elders.
	In the olden times, when our grand-
mothers and great-grand-mothers—of
whose fortitude, ambition and abilities we
hear such wonderful stories—were rosy-
cheeked girls, not a hundredth part of the
gayety and fashionable amusements that
now exist in society were known or even
thought of. Dancing of any description
was but rarely engaged in; round dancing
or waltzing, in this country, was as foreign
to the minds and habits of the young as
the moon is from the earth. It is strange
that young women in these days, who
waste so much strength and vitality in dan-
cing and whirling, should be generally del-
icate in health, never vigorous and robust
as maidens were in days gone by? No, it
is not strange, it is simply a natural conse-
quence.
	Perhaps as great evils have been wrought
for the human family, through the intro-
duction of so much and so many different
styles of dancing as in any other way.
Physicians as well as moral reformers con-
demn the practice of round dancing, some
of them in the strongest terms.
	Young ladies of the present day are not
to blame for the great delight they take in
this most fascinating recreation. They
have not been shown the evil tendencies to
which it leads. Let mothers, and people of
studious thought and reflection come to un-
derstand the nature of these things first;
then teach it to the girls, and see how read-
ily they will listen and comply with those
instructions.
	With many young ladies, waltzing has
become almost like an intoxicating bever-
age to an habitual drinker. When it is pre-
sented to them, it would seem like a great
sacrifice not to indulge somewhat; and
when a little is accepted the temptation to
indulge too far is irresistible. But bring
our girls to realize that there is real danger,
positive wrong in round dancing, and a
majority of them will abandon the prac-
tice forthwith.
	Some of them may be hard to convince,
but surely they are worth laboring with.
Talk to them of future generations, of a
time when they are likely to become moth-
ers—a time for which they should be pre-
paring physically, mentally and spiritually.
Inspire them now with the thought, the
wish (which is sure to come in later years,
perhaps too late) to be among the most cap-
able, noble and honorable of mothers. Tell
them in connection with these things, how
very much depends upon the present care
and preservation of their health and
strength. And tell them in a way that
they must understand, that too much dan-
cing of any sort, now in their early years,
is one thing that is likely to make them

[Column 3]
frail, weakly women all their lives, and
doubtless shorten their days and retard
their usefulness.

	It may be considered by some, that it
should be sufficient to tell young folks
what is good for them and what is likely
to prove hurtful; but this is not sufficient
for most older people. The old as well as
the young, are liable to give too little at-
tention to the care of health, and to violate
the laws of nature. For this reason if for
no other, they should exercise great pa-
tience in teaching the youth.	INEZ.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. CAMPBELL a lady lecturer known
to fame, has been lecturing during the past
month in some of the most conservative
old towns of Mass., on Woman's Suffrage.
The Woman's Journal in alluding to the
fact, and speaking of Somerset, said it was
at first doubtful whether the lecture would
receive even respectful consideration. At
Taunton, Mrs. Campbell lectured under the
auspices of the Woman's Christian Temper-
ance Union. "The lady was self-possessed,
spoke eloquently, and commanded close at-
tention." She believes that the ballot would
be better used by women than by men, and 
thinks in the good time coming, when wo-
men help make the laws there will be some
improvement.
	A MEETING in support of the extension
of the franchise to women was held in the 
Temperance Hall, Leceister, England,
March 21st. A large number of ladies
were present. * * The Chairman
in opening the proceedings said they were
there to discuss a serious and interesting
question, which must arise in a highly civ-
ilized state of society, namely the proper
position of women.
	It was moved by one of the leading cit-
izens that a petition in favor of the Wo-
man's Suffrage Bill should be signed by the
Chairman in behalf of the meeting and for-
warded to Mr. Taylor, M. P. for presenta-
tion to the House of Commons. Another
gentleman seconded the motion, and Miss
Helen Taylor, member of the London
School Board, supported the motion as fol-
lows: The main interest of the question
to her was from the point of responsibility.
The Suffrage should be used by women not 
as a matter of right but of duty, and a wo-
man who had been successful in life, and who
said she did not want to vote, had a very
low idea of the responsibility attaching to 
her. There were questions affecting a large
class of women in the country, which wo-
men could understand better than men,
however noble they might be, and upon
which they should be allowed to exercise
their opinions. The interests of the whole
nation would profit by the franchise being
extended to women, and she hoped the
time was not far distant when their prayer
would be granted. Meetings of a similar
character to this have been held recently in
many of the large towns in England and
Scotland. These items were taken from
the April No. of the Woman's Suffrage
Journal of that country.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	SPRINGVILLE, April 7, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Y. L. M. I. A. of Springville was re-
organized March 15, 1877, under the direc-
tion of Miss E. R. Snow, assisted by Mrs.
Zina D. Young and Mrs. Prescinda Kimball,
with the following officers:
	Caroline Whiting, President,
	Calista Boyer,
	Ellen Sumsion,
	Abby Whiting,
	Clara Bringhurst,		Counselors,
	Maria Mendenhal,
	Elizabeth Bird,
	Rettie Bringhurst, Secretary,
	Kate Houtz, Corresponding Secretary,
	Eliza Haymond, Treasurer,
	Mary Whiting, Superintendent.
	Our first Annual meeting was held in the
Meeting House, March 15, 1878, Caroline
Whiting presiding. After the exercises of
singing and prayer, the programme for the
evening consisted of songs, essays, decla-
mations, etc. The Constitution and By-
laws and the laws to govern the circulation
of the library were read by the Secretary.
The Financial report of the Association
during the past year was read by the Trea-
surer. Also a report of the working de-
partment read by the Secretary. After
which Elders Wm. Bromley and Wm. Kel-
sey and Bishop Bringhurst made some very
encouraging remarks to the young ladies;
exhorted them to press forward with a new
will, and assured them that a decided im-
provement was manifest in many ways.
The President then presented the officers
of the Association, who were unanimously
sustained.
	Our first Annual meeting was a time of
real pleasure, and ended with expressions
of gratitude and a determination in the fu-
ture to become zealous of good works.
	We also wish to inform you that our little
Association has now made a permanent
step in the direction of silk-culture, as we
have accomplished the clearing of four
acres of benchland, and a setting out of a
small orchard of the mulberry cuttings.
The young sisters manifest the greatest
willingness to assist in starting a work
which we hope will prove a benefit and
blessing in some future day.
	KATE HOUTZ, Cor. Sec'y.

	WOODRUFF, RICH CO., April 17, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place was or-
ganized on the 28th September, 1874, with
the following officers:
	Harriet A. Lee, President,
	Ruth C. Cornia,
	Tryphenia Fairchild,	Counselors,
	Annie Cox, Secretary,
	Aurelia Lee, Treasurer.
	The Society was organized by Sister Eliza
R. Snow, and has been steadily increasing
ever since, both in membership and finances,
and the prospects are flattering for accom-
plishing a good work the coming summer.
The climate here has, so far, prevented the
successful raising of grain, consequently
our granaries and store houses are at present
"To let;" still we have not been idle, the
sisters have been busy making quilts, &c.,
for Temple donations and other purposes,
and we have on hand at present date seven-
teen head of stock, and as opportunities of-
fer we intend selling them to our more
fortunate neighbors in the Stake for wheat.

[Column 2]

	Our meetings (every two weeks) are well
attended, and an excellent spirit is mani-
fested, and the earnest working and untir-
ing efforts of the sisters is conclusive evi-
dence of their desire to make the Society
an organization of permanence, and to ac-
complish that good for which they were set
apart.
	Hoping the Spirit of God may rest upon
us and every organization of the Church,
and desiring the welfare of the great work
in which we are engaged, we remain your
sisters in the Gospel,
	HARRIET A. LEE, President,
		ANNIE COX, Secretary.

	MEADOWVILLE, March 24, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	The young ladies of Meadowville were
organized as a Retrenchment Association
June 3d, 1875, under the direction of Sister
Prescinda Kimball; our officers were as fol-
lows:
	Ann M. Eldredge, President,
	Elizabeth Townsend,
	Charlotte Tufts,		Counselors,
	Lathilla Kimball,
	Lizzie Eldredge, Secretary.
	On January 30th, 1878, the name, was
changed to Young Ladies Mutual Improve-
ment Association.  Two additional Coun-
selors and an Assistant Secretary were se-
lected by Sister Eldredge, viz:
	Janet Moffat,
	Christine Kimball,		Counselors,
	Ellen Kimball, Assistant Secretary.
	There are but twenty-four families here,
and most of them are young and have fami-
lies of little children; owing to this our
Association is not as well attended as we
would like. The sisters all seem to feel
well, and readily respond to any call that is
made on them for donations, etc., for any
purpose.
	On the 14th inst. we gave a picnic, and
an entertainment consisting of songs, recita-
tions, dialogues, essays, etc. We were ably
assisted by the Y. M. M. I. Association.
Evergthing passed off pleasantly, and we
had a very agreeable time. We have
twenty members in our Society. Wishing
the EXPONENT success, I remain your sister
and friend,	LIZZIE ELDREDGE,
				Secretary.

	ELSINORE, SEVIER CO., UTAH,
		March 29, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In accordance with appointment, the sis-
ters of this place gathered at the School-
house on the 9th of December, 1877, to or-
ganize the Relief Society. Present, Bish-
op J. W. Sylvester and his Counselors, J.
C. Jensen and Jas. I. Jensen, and a majority
of the sisters. The following sisters were
unanimously elected as officers:
	Johanna Marie Nielsen, President,
	Christine Sylvester,
	Christine Sodenberg,	Counselors.
	Juger Jensen, Secretary,
	Nicoline Hansen, Treasurer.
	Bishop Sylvester and Counselors gave in-
structions and made encouraging remarks
to the congregation; advised them to
gather up wheat for storing, and to do so
without delay, as there may come a day
that it will be needed.
	Forty-two members have been enrolled,
which, with few exceptions, includes all
the sisters of this place. We hold our
regular meetings once a month. Since the
organization of the Society there has been

[Column 3]

gathered fifty-seven bushels of wheat to
lay up, besides other means which are on
hand.
	We cannot but express our satisfaction
with the feelings of the sisters; all seem to
take a lively interest in the organization,
and we hope, by the blessings of God and
the united efforts of the sisters, to be the
means of doing some good in the interest
of the kingdom of God.
	Elsinore is a young settlement of forty
families, but prosperous, and all is peace
and union; we pray that this may so con-
tinue. Several of the sisters desire to sub-
scribe for the EXPONENT, and we send
with this for four copies as a beginning.
	Respectfully;
JOHANNA M. NEILSEN, President,
	INGER JENSEN, Secretary.

		WEST JORDAN, Feb. 7, 1878.
	Organization of the Young Ladies' Mu-
tuul Improvement Association, under the
direction of Sister Eliza R. Snow, with J.
J. Williams, Secretary:
	Sister Delila Gardner was chosen Presi-
dent of the Y. L. M. I. A.
	Marinda Bateman,
	Rachel Hill,
	Mary A. Cooper,		Counselors,
	Ellen Jensen,
	Polly Egbert,
	Adeline Williams,
	Elizabeth Cutler, Secretary.
	Rebecca Gardiner, Assistant Secretary,
	Elizabeth Cooper, Treasurer.
	The nominations were carried unani-
mously. Sixty names were then enrolled
as members. Sister Snow then gave some
instructions to the mothers, and exhorted
the members to be punctual in their duties.
	Sister E. Davis remarked she believed
"Obedience was better than sacrifice;" ex-
horted the members to always respond
when called upon to do anything by their
President. Spoke very highly of the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT; said it was the means
of helpiug the Elders when on missions.
Also said Dr. Romania B. Pratt was about
to open a class to instruct the sisters in the
medical profession, which she hoped would
receive the earnest attention of our sisters.
	Sister MacGregor said she felt there was
a great responsibility placed upon the sis-
ters to-day, but if they would give heed to
what Sister Snow had said, the Lord would
bless them.
	Sister Snow said that when she first came
into the Church, she made up her mind to
do anything and everything she was called
upon to do, however awkwardly she might
do it.
	Brother John Hill said he felt good in
attending the meeting, and if the sisters
would start a cocoonery, he would assist
them all he could, and was sure the Bishop
and Brother Turner would do the same.
	President Delila Gardiner said the Y. L.
M. I. A. would meet at this place next Sun-
day. Singing by the choir. Benediction
by J. J. Williams.
	ELIZABETH A CUTLER..


WE have had a very pleasant call from
an old school-mate, Aden E. Haskell, Esq.,
who is on his way to California in business
interests; he spent a day or two in the city
looking around and visiting points of in-
terest; expressed himself as pleased with
the improvements made in the country, and
considerably surprised at the success of 
home-manufactures and co-opertive insti-
tutions.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
APRIL.

In the meadows, valleys, forests, there and ev'rywhere,
Steals athwart the mind and senses like the breath of
	pray'r,
Some all-conscious silent token that the Spring has
	come.
And a buoyancy of spirit, gladdens heart and home.
		For the sun shines brighter
		Human hearts are lighter
		While the birds sing sweeter,
		In the rosy dawning
		Of the April morning,

'Tis the youthful jubilance of the new-born year,
Brightening earth with smiles, and refreshing it with
	tears,
Pouring forth sweet songs of praise in nature's verdant
	bow'rs,
And with fresh life imbuing trees, and shrubs and flow-
	ers.
		Breathing life and gladness,
		Into hearts of sadness,
		Soothing with a rareness,
		Born of tears and showers,
		Garner'd in the flowers.

Balmy breath of fragrant April's ever length'ning days,
Throbbing pulses bounding faster with its sunny rays;
Clouds and sunshine ever playing as with smiles and
	tears. 
Symbols of life's passages through the shadowed years.
		Faith in God doth April bring,
		For it ushers in the spring;
		When new life is on the wing,
		Mornings all ablaze with splendor,
		Fade to evening pale and tender.

	EMILEApril. 1878.	E. B. Wells


A WOMAN MISSIONARY COMING.

	Our friends in the East are becoming ex-
tremely anxious about our salvation, they
feel our condition as women citizens to be
so deplorable, notwithstanding our having
the right of franchise, that they are con-
strained to resort to some method of re-
deeming us from the bondage in which we
are bound. They have decided to send us
a woman missionary to show us the error of
our ways, and help to redeem the Mormon
women from their load of sin and degrada-
tion. At the Presbyterian Church on Grav-
el, Hill, at Cream Ridge, Monmouth Co., the
minister informed his flock that he desired
to send out a lady-missionary to convert
the poor deluded Mormon Women, and that
money would be a necessary consequence
of his resolve; a meeting was called for the
sole purpose of obtaining sufficient means
to bring the lady hither on this special er-
rand! What peculiar ideas they must en-
tertain of us as a people.
	How full of Christian philanthropy these
good people must be to appropriate their
means to correcting our errors, and re-
forming our morals. What their ideas
may be concerning us we are not prepared
to say, but presuming from the fact that we
need women missionaries from abroad, one
would suppose they looked upon us as
heathen in our views, and uncivilized in
our social life. Well we shall be very glad
to enlighten their minds on these and oth-
er subjects, through this lady missionary,
and we will guarantee she will go home a
much wiser woman than when she came.
In a country where women have the Suf-
frage, and organizations of improvement
among themselves, where they publish a
paper specially devoted to the interests of
the women of the Territory, where every
facility available is theirs to make use of
for their advancement and progress, it
seems as if they would be wholly capable
of determining for themselves on matters
of religion, and of judging of the true and
false.
	If the good lady comes here honest in
her desires for our spiritual welfare she will


soon comprehend the true position of things,
and it will no doubt place Mormon women
upon another plane in the estimation of
the good people of Monmouth Co., New
Jersey. Every courtesy that could be ex-
tended to us if we went abroad to represent
our views, will no doubt be extended to 
this lady missionary if she comes here in
good faith as a missionary, but, as for con-
verting Mormon women, they have already
been converted to the truth and they not
only believe but know that the principles
they have espoused, including Celestial
Marriage are of God and not of man.
[handwritten] E. B. Wells 			EMILE.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	BLOOMSBURG, COLUMBIA CO, PENN,
		March 14, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Perhaps a few lines from this part of the
land may not be uninteresting to your read-
ers. I left my home and loved ones in
Zion on the 7th of Jan., to pay a visit to
my husband's relatives who reside here.
All was new and strange to me, having
been reared in Utah. I had the pleasure of
traveling with our honored Delegate and
his family. Having a desire to see the city
in which the laws of our nation are made,
I accompanied them to Washington. I was
delighted with the beauties of that great
city, but only remained three days and then
came here, where I found a kind, warm-
hearted people. I am treated as well as I
could possibly be if I did not belong to the
"Mormons." There is a liberal feeling
manifested toward our people, although
they do not understand us. They do not
deny but that our principles are in accord-
ance with the Scriptures, still their faith is
not very strong in that good old book.
	I have been asked many questions con-
cerning our faith and practice, all of which
I have endeavored to answer truthfully, to
the best of my ability. I take particular
pleasure in talking on the principle of CE-
LESTIAL MARRIAGE—bearing testimony to
the world that the women of Utah are not
kept, or forced, to live in that order against
their will; that we, as well as our husbands,
know it to be of divine origin, and we
would not desire to abolish it. They some-
times look at me as though they almost
doubted the sense of their own hearing,
and finally come to the conclusion that we
must be differently constituted to the rest
of the world. I tell them "not so;" it is
because we know that God has commanded,
and we are willing to bring self into sub
jection to His laws; and we can, with His
assistance, overcome selfishness, and jeal-
ousy, and be willing for others to enjoy
equally with ourselves; then we can be
happy, loving them and their children.
	I trust I may be the means of doing some
little good in allaying prejudice that has
hitherto existed towards us. I find that
their prejudice is born of ignorance; that
where there is a better understanding of
things the people are inclined to be Just—to
accord to us our rights as American citi-
zens.  I also find that the pure and good
have the least to say condemnatory of our
principles, which is a great proof that we
are right. I believe there are many honest
hearts here, who would obey the Gospel if
the opportunity was afforded them. Many
of them never saw a Latter-day Saint pre-
vious to seeing me. I have many times
wondered why there were never any Elders
sent to this region, for we read that "This
Gospel must be preached to every creature
before the end shall come."


The EXPONENT comes to hand regularly,
and is welcomed as a messenger of light
and peace. Every word that comes from
Zion is fraught with the deepest interest; I
feel that we have just reason to be proud of
"onr little paper," which grows in interest
every year. The Lord is surely with you
in your labors, and may His blessings con-
tinue with you and all who labor for the
spreading of the truth and righteousness upon
the earth, is the prayer of your sister,
						MARY A. F.


A FEW WORDS TO YOUNG MEN.

	What are you doing for the improvement
of your minds? Are you aware that you
are on the great railway of time, rushing
and whirling past the station of youth?
The world is all before you—it is yours—God
gives you a lease of it! You see the phi-
losophers, the statesmen, and the teachers
of the present time—are their places to be
filled? What mean those telegraph posts
and wires? those cars and boats—those fast
printing-presses? They are monuments of
genius—the genius of men now passing
away. Up—bestir yourselves, with a firm
purpose and a stern resolve to penetrate
still farther into the arcana of nature, and
open to human gaze mysteries unrevaled
from the foundation of the world. Prove
the nobility of your natures by deeper div-
ing into scientific research, by a higher
flight of genius, and by a wider range of
thought. Shall the mind of the succeeding
age be charged with effeminacy or imbe-
cility? These questions we cannot answer.
We see what has been done in fifty years;
we are staggered by the sight, and exclaim
—how slight a prospect of such a vision in
the future! Who are to be men of emi-
nence in the age before us? Not you who
are lounging there on the sidewalks, or on
the streets—not you who are spending your
time with boisterous companions, repeating
unmeaning gibes and senseless jokes—not
you, who are wasting the midnight oil over
Eugene Sue and Paul de Kock—not you
who frequent the bowling saloons and bar-
rooms. No—you must pass through a dif-
ferent discipline; you must bend down the
undivided energies of your ardent souls, to
persevering, unremitting, and laborious
study. You must acquire an intimate and
thorough acquaintance with the world, dis-
cover the hidden intricacies of human
character, and acquaint yourselves with
the operation of natural laws. You must
bring truth from chaos to the golden sun-
light of order and system. This has been
the work of the mighty minds of the last
century.
	Say you that you have no time for this?
that your hours are those of toil? that the
workshop, the counter, and the mill de-
mand your time? So they do, but that toil
will indurate mind as well as body. It is
the union of manual and mental toil that
makes the iron men who grasp the mighty
things of the universe. You indulge an
idle whim. The mind can be revolving
weighty things while the hands are in mo-
tion. In your leisure, even if it be in the
silent hour of night, feed the immortal
mind with food worthy of it, and the hours
of toil will be cheered by the light of the
intellect. The mighty mind of Franklin
gave birth to sublime imaginings, even
while at the compositor's case and the press-
man's lever. Learn to think—think deep-
ly that you may act wisely.—Selected.


THOSE who think deeply, feel conse-
quently more acutely in proportion.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $3.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MAY. 1, 1878.


[Column 1]
EDUCATION AND CULTURE OF
WOMEN.

THEIR MINDS AND MANNERS.

"The reasoning maid, above her sex's dread
Had dared to read, and dared to say she read."

	This quotation, simple as are its words, is
full of historical significance. It shows us that
at that period, about a hundred years ago, wo-
men not only did not read, but if they dared
to do so, must brave the opposition of their co-
temporaries, and even of their own sex. It
was considered superfluous for girls to be taught
even in the common branches of knowledge
thoroughly, but their deportment, their train-
ing for society, their grace of carriage, were of
the utmost importance. There were, to be
be sure, women who possessed, in an unusual
degree, native mental endowments, and conse-
quently attained literary excellence; but even
such ladies did not seem to comprehend that a
higher education would be advantageous for
the sex generally. Lady Montagu, whose
fame is still widely known, in writing of her
niece, gives us a good illustration in proof of
this assertion—"I am glad you intend sending
my eldest niece to a boarding school. What
girls learn at these schools is trifling, but they
unlearn what would be a great disservice—a
provincial dialect, which is extremely ungen-
teel, and other tricks that they learn in the
nursery. The carriage of the person, which is
of great importance, is well attended to, and
dancing is well taught. As for the French lan-
guage, I do not think it necessary, unless for
persons in high life. All the boarding schools
are on very much the same plan, so that you
may place her wherever there is a good air and
a good dance-master."
	This letter was written in 1773, and at that
date MEN were thoroughly trained as scholars
and gentlemen. Ladies were expected to be
graceful, to behave with a subdued dignity
suited to a subordinate position. If by some
natural pro[-]livities any lady became better
informed than the generality of the sex, such
an one was instructed to conceal it, for learn-
ing was looked upon as incompatible with the
requisites of a true lady.
	How materially have the manners and cus-
toms of people changed since that time. And
yet how far moderns still fall short of a true
balance of mind and manners in the education
and culture of women.
	Much of the culture of mind and deportment
depends upon the homelife, the early impres-
sions, the associations of childhood, the atmos-
phere of the surroundings, the tone of the ele-
ments which characterize the mother's train-
ing and influence. These constitute the funda-
mental grounds on which to rear a fabric of
exquisite elegance, beauty and sublimity, or

[Column 2]
that which will continually undermine all the
harmony of outward polish and years of ardu-
our labor.
	We believe that a positive revolution is now
being effected in the culture and education of
women. Very much has already been accom-
plished by women of exceptional ability and
capability, but it yet remains for future exer-
tions to effect a permanent revolution among
all classes, and enlist woman generally in the
noble work of higher culture in all that will
develop the strongest attributes of goodness
and excellence.
	We cannot but believe that religion has a
more deeply cultivating effect than any other
power. It subdues and tranquilizes those pas-
sions which are calculated to destroy and lay
waste the better germs of life and character.
Then however highly cultivated a woman may
be in intellect, or mind, religion will still add
a charm to her character, an enthusiasm to her
inspirations, a loveliness to enhance all other
attributes of her soul. If this be true religion,
founded upon correct principles of faith and
doctrine, how lofty will be the aspirations that
emanate therefrom, how deep the inner foun-
tains, from which flow peacefully those
thoughts and ideas that shape themselves into
harmony, purifying, elevating and refining all
other requisites in the completeness of wo-
manly character.
	The great fear in this age is not so much in
the lack of higher education of mind, for it
would seem woman has now so many opportu-
nities for the cultivating of the intellect, that
all studies which man pursues will ere long be
open to woman; on this point, then, we need
not quibble, neither is it that woman will be-
come neglectful of her husband or children
through the cultivation of mind; what then?
It is that the manners of the present time are
not so perfect as in the time when women were
disciplined more carefully in deportment and
carriage. Every observer knows that there is
a charm in a person whose carriage is easy and
whose address is courteous, and this charm is
intensified, in a very great degree, when it is
associated with a cultivated mind, a tender
heart, and a devotion to God.
	Such women should the daughters of Zion
become; but such women they never will, nor
never can be, without discipline of the most
careful kind. There is a work of exceeding
magnitude before the mothers, the teachers,
the women of Zion, who are desirous of im-
proving and elevating the condition of woman.
This work does not belong exclusively to any
one class, but to all; and it will do good to all;
—a refining tendency will diffuse itself through
the associations of the Saints, if there is here
and there a germ well cultivated. The chil-
dren of the Latter-day Saints, many of them,
not only have good physical organizations and
intellectual capacities, but possess those char-
acteristics which may develop the grandest
possibilities of which the human mind can
conceive.
	Fvery day school, every Sunday school,
every organization for the young people, every
home, should be so conducted as to have an
influence, not only on the MINDS of children
and youth, but on the MANNERS. It is never
too late to begin to do better, and if there has
been neglect of any duty in the past, there is
opportunity given to improve in the future.
We are aware the facilities for cultivation are
not so general as in older towns and settle-
ments, and the Saints have many hindrances
and difficulties which differ widely from the
world, yet, notwithstanding all these, there
might be a vast improvement in the manners
of "our girls and boys," if greater care was

[Column 3]
taken in their training and in the examples of
fathers and mothers.
	In our humble opinion, although it is not a
disgrace to be awkward, yet every school-teach-
er should study deportment, and their exam-
ple in this respect should be such as their pu-
pils can copy.
	We are aware that this subject, like many
others, is inexhaustible, but even a few words
may sometimes set people thinking, and the
result be something more real than words.
	As a people we are proud of our religion, we
feel it is something superior to any other; then
it ought to make the Saints superior in heart,
in mind and in manners. The Saints should
not only be more devoted to God and more
willing and obedient than the world, but they
should be kinder, more charitable, more hu-
mane, more hospitable, more merciful, more
tender, more equitable, more benevolent, more
truthful, more affable, and in their associations
with their fellow-creatures preserve that quiet
dignity of demeanor, that gentleness of man-
ners, that attract the heart and rivet the at-
tention, and demand the respect and admira-
tion of all who are capable of comprehending
true nobility.
	We would not be understood as speaking of
that sort of cultivation which leads women to
despise labor—far from it. All honest labor is
elevating, and any woman may manifest as
much ease and grace in the duty of housekeep-
ing as in the drawing-room. Cultivating grace
of attitude in idle languor is not half so charm-
ing as in those motions and movements that
are necesssry to the labor of a household. Have
not men often been led to praise, even in verse,
the simplicity and grace of manner, of girls
compeled to perform menial services, such as
bar-maid and hotel-waiter. And is there any-
thing sweeter or more lovely than a young girl
full of vigor, neat and graceful, waiting upon
father and mother, or entertaining guests, re-
lieving the mother, tired, perchance, with long
years of care and toil. We know ladies who
have had very few advantages, who are almost
perfect in manners, and draw all hearts to
them, who, by observation and practise, have
learned to converse so well that no one would
suspect how small a part of their knowledge
had been obtained from books.
	We thought to say only a few words to draw
attention to this snbject, but will now conclude
by remarking that such training and discipline
as is good for girls is also good for boys, with
only the differences of some peculiar charac-
teristics easily discriminated by the mother or
instructor. Good manners require thought,
attention, care and practise, and if a little
more consideration was given to this subject,
instead of letting children form their own
manners or go without, there would be an in-
creased degree of good feeling and happiness,
that would add to the general pleasure of hu-
man life.		[handwritten] E. B. Wells


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE CORDIALLY welcome, as an exchange,
the "Woman's Suffrage Journal," published
in London and Manchester, and ably edited
by Miss Lydia E. Becker, a lady of superior at-
tainments and a successful champion of wo-
man's cause in the British Isles. Her letter
addressed to us was full of kindly feeling and
liberality. This Journal gives one a correct idea
of the advanced progress of the woman's work
in the British E[-]pire, and of the opinions and
sentiments entertained by men and women on
the popular question of woman's suffrage and
equality of sex, in a country where one wo-
man holds sovereign rule, and has had a peace-
ful and prosperous reign for forty years.


THROUGH COURTESY of Simeon C. Aratoon,
Esq., of Calcutta, Bengal, India, to whom we
return generous thanks, we have received some
books edited, in the English language, by one
of the learned women of that country, Raj
LakshiDebi, wife of BabooProsonnocomar, Sen.,
M. D. "The Gods of Greece, Italy and India"
and "The Chronology of the Hindu's" are the
titles. They seem to be well written, and con
tain many things which are of interest to those
who wish to inform themselves in regard to
customs and traditions of the ancients.
	WE WELCOME to our list of exchanges "The
American Home," published in Chicago, Mrs.
Theodore C. Campbell, Editor and Proprietor.
Several ladies of note contribute to its columns
—"Hyacinth," "Methusaleh," "Aunt Carrie,"
nom de plumes of favorite writers well-known
to the public. There are other contributors of
pleasing style of composition, with whose
writings the public are familiar. This maga-
zine has some pages appropriated to what is
termed a Home Letter Box, in which are some
very useful practical hints on all subjects, and
"lots of fun." There is a serial in course of
publication, and many interesting notes on
gardening plants, in fact, all the different de-
partments of home life, recipes for cooking,
advertisements, etc., etc. The paper is in its
second volume.
	WE HAD the pleasure of a call from Miss Isa-
bella L. Bird, of Edinburgh, Scotland. The
lady is traveling for the benefit of her health,
and while making the tour of this continent
has been taking notes by the way, anticipating
publishing a book of travels. After visiting
California and the adjacent country she ex-
pects to sail for Japan. She expressed herself
as pleased with the city, and surprised at the
wonderful improvement made in so short a
time, drew a favorable comparison to other
towns in the West that she had visited, and 
commended our people for their industry and
enterprise. She spoke of the neatness of the
cottages and their surroundings, as in striking
contrast with the squalor and untidiness of
those she had seen in many towns by the way;
said the surroundings of the dwellings remind-
ed her of the homes of the cottagers in Eng-
land. Miss Bird is an advocate of reform in
dress and economy in the various departments
of home and society. She was anxious to
learn the views of the ladies here on this sub-
ject. She was particularly interested in hear-
ing of the organization we have here for STOR-
ING GRAIN, and looked upon it as a proof that
we practically demonstrated our faith in the lit-
eral fulfilment of prophecy. It is pleasant to
meet ladies of culture, free from predjudice, and
anxious to obtain correct information concern-
ing our general interests as a people.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARIES.

	Died; of pneumonia, on March 24, 1878, at
5 30 a. m., in the 14th Ward, after four days
sickness, Eliza May, lovely daughter of Mary
Ann Ruth May and Jesse W. Fox, Jr., aged 2
years, 2 months, and 14 days. The funeral ser-
vices were conducted by Bishop Thomas Tay-
lor at the residence of Jesse W. Fox, Sen., at 1
o'clock, March 25, and were numerously at-
tended. Appropriate remarks were made by
President Angus M. Cannon and Bishop Rob-
ert T. Burton.

	Died, in the 14th Ward of this city, of mem-
branous croup, on April 10, 1878, at 9.45 p. m ,
John Roy, beloved son of Frankie E. Fox and
John H. Reese, aged 2 years, 4 months and 28


days. The funeral services were conducted by
President Angus M. Cannon at the residence
of J. W. Fox, Sen. Appropriate remarks were
made by Elder Joseph F. Smith.

	Died April 10th 1878, at her residence in
Fairview, Sanpete County, of lung fever, Sarah
Jane Anderson, wife of Archibald Anderson,
and daughter of Thomas G. and Margaret
Davis Reese. Deceased was born in Merthyr,
Tydvil, Glamorshire, South Wales, May 9th,
1844; was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1853, and
has remained a faithful member from that
time. She emigrated to this country in 1856,
crossing the plains in Captain Bunker's Hand-
cart Company. She was married August 23d,
1859, to Archibald Anderson, and leaves ten liv-
ing children, eight girls and two boys, the
youngest 5 weeks old. She proved herself to
be a true Latter-day Saint and a loving wife
and mother. She was a Teacher in the Relief
Society, which position she filled with honor.
She was universally beloved by all who knew
her; too much cannot be said in her praise.
We deeply sympathize with her husband for
his loss.—Com.

	At Mona, Juab County, January 26, 1878,
Mrs. Nancy Harrison, wife of John Harrison,
departed this life, aged 37 years, 2 months and
3 days. Deceased was born in St. Helens, Lan-
cashire, England. In the bloom of early wo-
manhood she has passed away, leaving a hus-
band and five children and numerous friends
to mourn her loss. She was an estimable lady,
endeared to all who knew her; she will be
greatly missed, not only by her family but in
the Church, in the Relief Society, and as a
leader in the choir. She endured her long,
painful sickness with singular fortitude; her
habitual cheerfulness and natural sweetness of
disposition seemed never to forsake her. She
was a faithful worker in the Church. In her
early life she received the additional charms
of Christian grace, which shone brighter as
she drew nearer to the light of eternal day.
Her youngest daughter preceded her in cross-
ing the River of Death, and now they rejoice
together in the brightness of the Heavenly
Home.
	I believe that God thus comforts us, by re-
flecting heavenly peace upon the countenance
of death, as if a ray of its light dropped earth-
ward as the pearly gates opened, or as if the
earthly tabernacle heard the "well done" and
smiled; "Thou hast been faithful, take this
crown of radiant whiteness." O will He say
this to me, have I been faithful?
	MRS. ANNIE DAVIS.


A FAREWELL TO EMMA.

	Am I not dreaming? Is it indeed a reality?
Emma, our beloved one, dead! How dearly
we loved her, how fondly we all prized her!
The silvery tones of her voice, her sunny, azure
smile, her sweet, winning ways, her number-
less acts of kindness, live only in remembrance
now. Beloved, darling Emma! our hearts
with grief are laden, and we weep, because
thou art gone; we feel it is hard to give thee
up, so good, so gifted, so loving and true, but
'Death hath all seasons for its own," and we
have no power to stay his hand. He has come,
an unbidden and unwelcome victor, and if we
look at the dark side only our poor human
hearts would break with grief, for we are but
human. But the angel of the Lord will roll
the stone away from the door of our hearts,
and enable us to look up above the tomb to the


beautiful gardens of paradise, where thou art
arrayed in the white robe of immortality; the
golden crown of salvation on thy sinless brow,
and the flaming harp of love—in thy hand, and
through faith we know that a merciful Parent,
a Father of loving kindness, hath called thee
thus early to dwell with the pure forever,
and the thought of thy goodness shall be as a 
healing balm to our stricken hearts. Farewell,
farewell, dear girl, but not forever.

	They have borne thee away, dearest Emma,
		To the silent and peaceful grave,
	Where the fairest flowers of summer
		Above thee will gently wave.
	They have carried away the casket.
		To rest 'neath the dark green sod;
	But thy soul is a brilliant jewel
		In the diadem of God.

	They have borne thee away, darling Emma,
		From the joys and scenes of earth,
	Away from the friends who loved thee;
		For thine own excelmg worth:
	Away from thy young companions,
		To whom thou wast ever dear;
	How oft they will miss thee, Emma,
		In their joyous gatherings here.

	They have borne thee away, precious Emma,
		Earthly love and parental care,
	From thy home and family circle,
		Which cherished thee fondly there.
	They will miss thee from their dwelling,
		Thy gentle and kindly tone,
	At morning, noon and evening,
		They'll watch for the dear one gone.

	How oft will the glittering teardrop
		From our innermost hearts arise,
	As we mourn thy early departure,
		Thou innocent "child of the skies".
	But the thought of thy numerous virtues
		Shall be as a healing balm,
	Which speaks to our murmuring spirits,
		And bids them be peaceful and calm.
	
	We have bade thee adieu, dearest Emma,
		A long and a sad farewell,
	But the memory of thy gooness
		Shall evermore with us dwell;
	And we'll bow to the will of "our Father,"
		He gave and taketh away,
	Holy Faith points a meeting hereafter,
		Through Christ, the truth and the way.
									L. M. HEWLINGS.
Salt Lake City, April, 1878.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WE have several articles and poems
from our contributors laid over, also re-
ports from Fourteenth Ward General Re-
trenchment Meeting, Clarkston, Miners-
ville, Pleasant Grove, Peoa, Mona, Heber and
Bloomington, and one from Rockville, stat-
ing their success in sericulture. They have
plenty of silk-worm eggs and have put out
10,000 mullberry cuttings, and planted a
quart of mulberry seed.
	THE Quarterly Conference of Weber Co.
Relief Society will be held in Ogden, Thurs-
day May 2, when it is expected a full re-
port will be made of the condition of each
branch of the Relief Society of that Stake
of Zion. Several sisters from this city have
been invited to attend. Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. Zina D. Young, and Mrs. E. Davis
will leave Ogden on the morning of the 3rd
of May to make a tour of Malad Valley and
settlements in that vicinity, holding meet-
ings with the Societies in the various set-
tlements and talking up home-industries.
especially sericulture, the storing of grain,
co-operative enterprises, encouraging the
sisters in their organizations, urging them
to obtain naturalization papers, and exert
ing their utmost influence in promoting the
interests of the Kingdom of God. These
sisters expect to be absent a week or more.


182		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


<aqlve me="" drink,”="" the="" woman="" satyb,="" :;“how="" is="" it="" that="" thou="" being="" a="" jew,="" asketh="" drink="" of="" me,="" who="" am="" a!="" samaritan?="" ifie‘fe]w8'liayjng="" no="" deal-="" ings="" with,="" fh°="" atkna.';fclajed="" to="" some="" remarks="" from;the="" savjorpand="" he-shows="" her="" he="" know="" previous="" lifewhich="" calls="" forth="" from="" the'jremark',i!="" sir="" i="" perceive="" arta="" .="" p'rbhef,,i'="" thfey="" .continue="" talking="" and="" at'="" last1="" she="" feaid="" “i="" ‘know="" messias="" cofriettf,"which'="" called="" christ;="" when="" comes="" wjlltellik="" all="" things;”="" jesus="" 8aith,unto="" f'="" speak="" unto="" thee,="" hell’,="" .then="" icama;="" disciples,="" were="" surprised'that="" talked="" with="" woman,="" butnouaantoid!“whytalke3t="" her?”="" the'wohian="" then="" lgft="" water-="" pot="" ran="" intothecityrand="" saith="" men,="" "come="" seea-mair="" who’told="" ever="" did;”="" jjhd1="" mhy="" ;ihyi="" ted="" him'="" their="" houses,="" abode!,="" them="" two.days.="" hero,="" as="" often="" .the="" .ease,="" in-="" strument="" convey="" ihe="" first="" .intimation="" gospel="" life="" jhnd="" salvation="" like="" this="" are:="" nameless,="" .but="" names="" are="" written="" in="" that-book="" which="" <bas="" yet="" be="" opened.="" an&now="" .corpe="" hnothor="" hatneiess="" wo-="" man:="" nine="" verses="" only,="" felithis="" episode="" to.="" unborn:="" generations,:="" brief="" history="" has="" inspired;.'some="" -="" grandest="" italian="" painters="" depict="" on="" immortal="" canvass,="" to;="" any-one="" can="" realize="" position="" before-the="" savior,="" his="" god-like'.nature?="" .can;="" never="" behold="" marvelous="" delineation="" without="" whole="" soubeipgrneltod?="" and;="" deep;="" .fountains="" o.teir="" heqrbqing="" brfiken="" up.there="" cha'rafetors,="" which,="" stooping="" down',="" traced="" id="" th'dsatfd'as="" they="" recounted="" him="" her’film="" the'="" fecribes'="" rihd="" 'pharisees="" her.="" accusers;.="" ndfijelytfiat="" sh‘d="" was="" taken’="" adultery;="" penalty="" pf="" whiclpin="" the.jew;="" i8hjlawp.was="" to,="" death.="" ralqip-g,="" himseff.="" up="" .he.="" commanded-="" “bet-="" him..that="" i3="" without,="" sir?,.,="" cat="" the:first,stond="" at="" her.”="" 'the="" womap="" drawn'="" in-,="" that;="" re-,="" markable="" picture,="" kneeling="" face="" nearly="" touchlng'the="" ground;="" 'long="" beautifql-="" hair="" xioycrs="" '.fisvwjth="" n="" maritlo.1="" toompmept'he="" raises,="" himself="" umnd,="" fookipg="" ronnd="" finds="" auhayo,="" gone="" out="" tfedylrig="" hjifi'ahu.thq="" alone1="" hefffieri="" toys="" wbriuto="" ‘where="" ato="" thiub="" ac-1="" cusers?—hav'd="" nono="" condemned="" thee?="" she-="" f‘none-lordjesus="" salth="" neither="" do="" condemn,="" ,thee;="" gp,="" qin.no-="" more-'v“man="" sees="" deed="" god="" thecir="" cumstancb,”="" probably="" savior'might'="" k'no'w.8ota6="" ek'tenunating="" features="" the’="" case;="" at.ariy.'rate="" knew1="" well="" heb="" accusers'="" wore.grps?.-hyppqrrtes,=";" and-dt="" not-so;="" mu="" (?h.="" fhelr-hprrpr="" crime,="" if="" possibuetopntrap="" him:in;bis.word8;="" mightshring="" ,au="" accusation,="" against="" hm,if6rihey="" ,w.ere="" over="" seeking,="" for.="" life;="" hnt="" bept,them="" their.town="" wea-;="" ponsan.thls="" casq;.and="" own="" consciences,="" would'notallojy,="" onp="" caqla="" stono:="" anqthqrjphasq="" ot="" caso="" is,="" jo-="" gus="" did="" not="" come="" capacity="" judge,="" and’="" careful="" hssurpe,ad="" office="" ordairied,="" toying="" one="" particular="" occasion="" they'sougbf="" judgment="" -certain="" caso,="" tempting="" him,="" they-might-catch="" ids="" words;who="" made="" judge2”="" tiesp="" wors="" snoiild="" be,a="" .mighty="" kev,="" to-="" hath="" pien="" grid="" vyoipen,="" (ak="" seau="" nless="" th'pylhyahepn="" togmlydpltotoii="" fed="" f6="" most.prifpal="" office..="" 0,b!(lpt="" u&re-="" metuheir’this="" augiist="" ejtampfe.="" whenwe!="" dp="" so="" thoughtlessly="" take="" 'th,0="" seat,="" agalnst="" our'="" fellow="" mpitols,="" henceforth="" let="" us="" put="" par="" finger'pa="" lips,="" sfait="" the!="" verdidlfrom="" the'rlghtfuljudge.="" “="" "="" next="" tu’o1="" characters="" are,="" were,0="" blended="" less="" than="" twenty="" "or="" fifth="" chapter="" st.="" mark.a="" buifeb="" 01="" thor="" syhagogne,="" jarlus="" by="" name,="" gofeth:="" meet1="" tho="" savlbrjand="" falling="" feet?="" according'="" eastern="" fashion',="" besought="" say-1="" ing,fmy="" little="" daughter="" ilbth="" the'point:="" death,="" t="" pray="" thee="" crimp="" dnd="" lay'="" -thy="" hands="" upon="" .may="" healed;="" shall="" live.”="" seemed-to="" hqve!="" ust="" right,="" faith;="" jesus,="" went,="" with'="" great="" multitude="" foilowed-bim,'="" pressed="" him;="" cer-="" tain="" had="" suffered="" .seyere-sick.="" ness="" for="" twelve="" yebrs,="" spent="" physicians="" ahd="" only="" grew="" worse="" came="" press="" behitid="" and.grasped="" robe,="" said,="" 1="" toay':b‘ut="" foqch'="" clothes,="" healedj="" arid="" ina'me-'="" merit="" whole!="" savior1="" looked="" around="" said’“who="" toiibhot="" fcb’v1="" tperceive="" virtue="" gone1="" but'or1="" mel="" woman7'then'="" fearifig="" ‘dniidffem-'="" blirig,="" knowings="" healed,="" cafcie="" arid;="" fell="" down="" before="" rind="" tbld:="" him"all'tho="" truth,="" said="" herdaughtbr,’'="" thy="" faith="" made,="" whole;="" go="" in;="" peace="" whole,of="" ,plague;v:j:jsto'="" place,.of,="" abode,="" nothing="" is:="" told="" but="" wornari.sipk="" afflicted:="" aniearnestr="" full="" .pfjdaith,.="" and.="" f="" of,="" devptiop,="" fai="" th,="" saved,="" .thatvorej="" the.="" savior="" now-="" our="" patdsf,="" there;,are="" numberless="" women="" qmong="" that,wpuld.tdp:="" precisely="" same,="" mqet="" .thp="" .same;="" glorlp'usresult.="" passed="" labor="" love;!="" soon="" friends="" meet="" them,="" .,tell.5him‘="" trouble="" thyself="" maid="" dead;!but="" be,="" turning'="" ,tb="" father,="" saith!="" “,be="" not'="" afraid,="" only1="" believe="" .not'="" dead="" slefepeth,="" ”="" rind,="" hii;hv="" reached="" room="" she1="" lay="" apjir-="">[Column 1]
SCRIPTURE WOMEN.

BY HANNAH T. KING.
[continued.]

	The Woman of Samaria next appears;
she is also nameless but her conversation
with the Savior at the well, renders her re-
nowned. Jesus had walked a long way,
and coming to the well, which was built up
three or four feet above the level of the
ground, sat upon it to rest himself, while
his disciples were gone into the city to buy
food; while there, a woman comes to draw
water, and Jesus said to her "Give me
drink," the woman saith "how is it that
thou being a Jew, asketh drink of me, who
am a Samaritan?" the Jews having no deal-
ings with the Samaritans. This led to some
remarks from the Savior, and He shows her
that He know her previous life, which calls
forth from her the remark, "Sir I perceive
that thou art a prophet." They continue
talking and at last she said "I know that
Messias cometh, which is called Christ;
when He comes He will tell us all things;"
Jesus saith unto her "I that speak unto
thee, am He!" Then came the disciples,
and were surprised that he talked with the
woman, but no man said "Why talkest thou
with her?" The woman then left her water-
pot and ran into the city and saith unto the
men, "come see a man who told me all that
ever I did;" and many invited him to their
houses, and he abode with them two days.
Here, as is often the case, woman is the in-
strument to convey the first intimation of
the gospel of life and salvation, who like
this woman are nameless, but their names
are written in that Book which has yet to
be opened.
	And now comes another nameless wo-
man: nine verses only, tell this episode of
her life to unborn generations, yet that
brief history has inspired some of the
grandest Italian painters to depict on their
immortal canvass, and to any one who can
realize her position before the Savior, and
His God-like nature, can never behold that
marvelous delineation without their whole
soul being melted, and the deep fountains
of their heart being broken up. There are
the characters, which, stooping down, he
traced in the sand as they recounted to him
her sin. The Scribes and Pharisees were
her accusers, namely that she was taken in
adultery, the penalty of which in the Jew-
ish laws was stoning to death. Without
raising himself up He commanded "Let
him that is without sin, cast the first stone
at her." The woman is drawn in that re-
markable picture, kneeling with her face
nearly touching the ground; her long and
beautiful hair covers her as with a mantle.
The scene is laid at the moment he raises,
himself up, and looking round finds all have
gone out leaving him and the woman alone.
He then says "Woman where are thine ac-
cusers?—have none condemned thee?" she
saith "none Lord;" Jesus saith unto her,
neither do I condemn thee, go, and sin no
more." "Man sees the deed God the cir-
cumstance," probably the Savior might
know some extenuating features of the
case, at any rate he knew well her accusers
were gross hypocrites, and it was not so
much their horror of her crime, as it was
if possible to entrap him in his words, that
they might bring an accusation against
him, for they were ever seeking for his
life; but he beat them with their own wea-
pons in this case; and their own consciences
would not allow one of them to cast a stone
at her. Another phase of the case is, Je-
sus did not come in the capacity of a judge,

[Column 2]
and he was ever careful not to assume an
office to which He was not ordained, saying
on one particular occasion when they sought
his judgment on a certain case, tempting
him, that they might catch him in his
words; "who made me a judge?" These
words should be a mighty key, to all, both
men and women, not to take the judgment
seat unless they have been legally appoint-
ed to that most critical office. Oh! let us re-
member this august example, when we do
so thoughtlessly take the judgment seat
against our fellow mortals, henceforth let
us put our finger on our lips, and wait the
verdict from the rightful judge.
	The next two characters are, as it were,
blended in less than twenty verses of the
fifth chapter of St. Mark. A Ruler of the
Synagogue, Jarius by name, goeth to meet
the Savior, and falling at his feet, according
to the Eastern fashion, besought him say-
ing, "my little daughter lieth at the point
of death, I pray thee come and lay thy
hands upon her that she may be healed;
and she shall live." He seemed to have
just the right faith; and Jesus went with
him, and a great multitude followed him,
so that they pressed upon him; and a cer-
tain woman who had suffered severe sick-
ness for twelve years, and spent all that she
had with physicians and only grew worse,
came in the press behind him, and grasped
his robe, for she said, if I may but touch
his clothes, I shall be healed; and in a mo-
ment she was made whole! The Savior
looked around and said "who touched me?
for I perceive that virtue has gone out of 
me! The woman then fearing and trem-
bling, knowing she was healed, came and
fell down before him and told him all the
truth, when Jesus said to her, "daughter,
thy faith hath made thee whole, go in
peace and be whole of thy plague." No
name, no place of abode, nothing is told
but a woman sick and afflicted an earnest
woman full of faith and full of devotion,
and her faith saved her. I realize that were
the Savior now in our midst, there are
numberless women among us that would do
precisely the same, and meet the same
glorious result.
	The Savior passed on in his labor of love;
soon the friends meet them, and tell him
trouble not thyself the maid is dead; but
he turning to the father saith, "be not
afraid, only believe thy daughter is not
dead but sleepeth," and passed on till he
reached the room in which she lay appar-
ently dead, and taking her by the hand he
saith unto her, "damsel, I say unto thee
arise! and she arose and walked; and he de-
sired them to give her something to eat.
We seem to linger to hear what she said,
what her parents said, what the Savior said
on that momentous occasion; but no, silence
is the only commentary. Yet there is
much food for reflection, even from these
nameless women; and from this brief but
momentous epoch of their lives. One fea-
ture is ever visible throughout the Savior's
mission; his love and mercy, his gentle dig-
nity, his god-like demeanor, most especially
to women, yes, even the erring, that a 
species of worship is called forth by every
act of his deep and earnest life.
	Now I come to the sisters Martha and
Mary, they must not be separated; the very
difference of their characters, seem to
make the bond between them stronger;
many have supposed that the Savior did
not esteem Martha so highly as he did
Mary, but that is not how I read it, the
Scripture says expressly "Now Jesus loved
Martha and her sister, and Lazarus,"—if
the Savior loved once, it was forever; there

[Column 3]
could be nothing fickle or changeable about
him. Martha exhibits a most admirable
character, an exemplary housewife, a most
hospitable woman, blessed is the house
with such a woman at its head; she was the
intrepid soldier of Christ, she had all faith
in him, she worshipped him; she loved to
entertain him; she was exerting herself to
the utmost, even to over exertion, that she
might honor and bless him with the good
of her household; she was probably some-
what over earnest in the ears of the world,
such a temperament can hardly help it, and
who will censure her, when finding she
cannot accomplish all without help she hur-
ries to her sister and finds her lost to all
worldly cares sitting at the feet of her
Lord, and drinking in his gracious words,
his divine teaching, regardless of all else!
Imagine Martha breaking in upon that
rapt audience with the hasty words, "Lord,
dost thou not care that my sister hath left
me to serve alone? Bid her that she help
me." How "malapropos" these words read,
sounds even upon the most gracious ears.
By the mind's eye, I can see that god-like
face raised to hers, and I feel a sweet and
gentle smile accompanied the words, that
have often been deemed a severe rebuke, I
fancy I hear a low sweet voice saying in
low tones "Martha, Martha, thou art care-
ful and troubled about many things, but one
thing is needful and Mary has chosen that
good part which shall not be taken away
from her." Of course there is a gentle re-
proof runs through them, but how sweetly
they might be said, and whom the Lord
loveth He chastenth,, and I know by an
intuition that He did love Martha, she
was probably acting against His wishes, in
making so great an entertainment for him.
but do I fear his judgment of her? Not in
the least, the Scripture says, he loved her
—that is enough—the wounds of such a 
friend are better than the [-]isses of daily
life! The next episode we have in the life
of these sisters of Bethany, is the death
of their brother Lazarus. They sent unto
Jesus, saying "Lord, he whom thou loveth
is sick!" Jesus said to his disciples "This
sickness is not unto death, but for the glory
of God." And he remained where he was
two days; after that he saith to them, our
friend Lazarus sleepeth but I go that I may
awake him, at last he said Lazarus is dead!
and I am glad for your sakes that I was not
there to the intent ye might believe; let us
go to him. Then Martha, as soon as she
heard that Jesus was coming went and met
him, but Mary sat still in the house. Here
we see the characters of these sisters
strongly depicted, the one, full of life and
energy, the other swallowed up by love and
grief—and perhaps hurt that the Savior
had seemed to neglect them in their hour
of trial, by delaying his coming. Martha
in her warm and loving faith, exclaims,
"Lord hadst thou been here my brother
had not died! but I know that whatever
thou wilt ask of God, He will give it thee,"
Jesus saith, "thy brother shall rise again."
Martha responded, "I know he shall rise in
the resurrection at the last day; Jesus said
"I am the resurrection and the life, he that
believeth on me shall never die; believest
thou this? she saith "yea Lord, I believe
that thou art the Christ, the son of God!"
Then she went and called her sister secret-
ly saying, "the master hath come, and call-
eth for thee," and Mary arose, and went
quickly, and Jesus stood in the place where
Martha had met him; as soon as Mary was
come near to Jesus she fell at his feet say-
ing, "Lord if thou hadst been here my
brother had not died." And when Jesus


saw her sorrow, and those that were with
her, he groaned in spirit, and said, "where
have ye laid him? They say, "Lord come
and see" Jesus wept." Then said the Jews
"Behold how he loved him!" They reach
the grave. Jesus commands them to re-
move the stone, here Martha's faith fails
her, she exclaims, he hath been dead four
days and his body is decomposed. Jesus said
to her, "Saidst I not unto thee that if thou
wouldst believe thou shouldst see the glory
of God? Then he cried with a loud voice
"Lazarus come forth!" At the sound of that
Almighty voice, earth had no power to 
retain her prey, and he with grave clothes
bound, awakes to life.
	To be continued.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORT.

	RANDOLPH, April 8th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The people here are trying to live their
religion and do all the good they can. The
sisters are very energetic and kind in at.
tending to the wants of the sick and poor-
We hold three meetings each month which
are very well attended; our settlement is
small and the people not very well off, ow-
ing to the frosts, but we are living in hopes
of better times in the future. We are will-
ing to do all we can to roll on the Kingdom
of God, for by so doing we are working out
our own salvation. We were organized
three years ago last Sept., by Sisters E. R.
Snow and E. Howard, and have had no vis-
its from the sisters of Salt Lake City since,
only from Sister E Howard while on a visit
to her children, two years ago. We look
for the coming of the EXPONENT like going
to meeting, for we realize the good coun-
sels and instructions given from time to
time through its columns and we feel to
say God bless it.
	We have on hand in quilts and sundries
about thirty-three dollars, also forty dollars
in the Co-operative Store, and have just
made a purchase of fifty head of sheep.
We have never done anything in the grain
line yet, but with the help of our kind
Bishop we are going to see what success we
can make this year. We made a call, and
the sisters donated eleven dollars in cash
for the<emigration of="" the="" pobr,-fwhich="" we="" k.="" forwarded="" by="" president="" budge="" when="" go-="" ing'dbwn="" to="" conferencelaafyeat="" do="" ii4a'rc.xvirl="" pie.="" thisfis.ouniflrsb="" report-sincaiwenwere="" orgauizedr="" lam="" ashamed="" taown="" it,="" but="" if="" you="" will="" excuse-us="" this="" time="" wilistrivo="" to’do="" better="" after="" this.="" '="" -="" sr="" r-rwo.have="" report="" -ihe-death="" sister="" agncs="" smith,="" whtf="" died—march="" 30,--="" she="" was="" agreat="" sufferer1-'for.‘-nearly="" two="" years.="" j&c3hodied="" ashojived="" gr.gqqd="" fajthfqulat-="" jter-day="" .saint.="" ,="" teasers’which="" pfijce="" held="" till="" died.="" it="" wililw,="" prayingr="" god="" bless="" each="" and="" every="" onb:="" who;="" arb?="" striving="" serve="" 7tiiinjtnd="" keep="" his="" commandments.="" ceo(saiffiityson,brest.="" r.="" s.="" i.="" -the="" duties="" of-relief-societies,="" exhort-="" ed="" .the="" sisters="" icl.he..united..and="" ..prayerful="" that="" spirit="" dfl="" tub-lord'="" might1="" be'="" with="" them="" to'lead="" ahdlggide="" them.="" there="" are="" several="" copies="" !the="" exponent="" taken="" members="" society="" hero,="" lhstructfons,="" are.vead.withdntbr.est..="" -as="" byer,yburgfeteri="" etc......="" c.="" a.="" johnson="" -sec’y.="" johnson,="" han="" e="" go.,="" april,="" 1878.="" 'jeditor="" exponent:="" f="" )="" t="" a="" were="" called="" to-="" t’gether="" biahop’="" -s.="" -e.="" johnson;="" feb.="" ill,="" 878,="" g.relipf="" organized="" jane="" as="" president,="" mary="" johnson,and="" louisa="" shumway,="" counselors.="" ,bishop="" counselors="" gave="" us="" excellent-="" instruction-bncornidg="" ihz="" ,.j5="" loob="" i'ii‘i="" 0y="" yy="" tiy="" i="" tt="" :="" c="" wellsyille,'’="" cache;="" co!="" o-'="" 1="" aprilj="" gth,-78.="" editor="" sometime="" has="" elapsed="" since="" readers,="" havp="" heard="" voice="" from!="" relief="" place;="" though="" careless="" in="" respect,="" not="" lying="" dormant.="" hold="" .meetings="" twice="" monthj.and'havp="" general="" attendance="" of.this="" place.="" the-aid="" brethren="" have="" completed="" g="" neatllt-="" tlojbuilding="" containing="" three="" rooms,="" one="" which="" is,="" large="" enough,="" for="" .="" holding="" our="" meetings,="" library="" readipg="" room,="" store="" ,in="" be="" sold="" home.products.="" qui;="" house,="" dt="" is="" termed,="" dedicated="" on="" 18th="" (3arch="" present="" year,="" occasion="" bf<="" vvbfcb=""> emigration of the poor, which we
forwarded by President Budge when go-
ing down to conference. Last year we do-
nated twenty-six dollars and fifty-five cents
to the Logan Temple, and the year before
we gave ten dollars for the Salt Lake Tem-
ple. This is our first report since we were
organized, I am ashamed to own it, but if
you will excuse us this time we will strive
to do better after this.
	We have to report the death of Sister
Agnes Smith, who died March 30. She
was a great sufferer for nearly two years.
She died as she lived a good faithful Lat-
ter-day Saint. She was President of the
Teachers which office she held till she died.
	I will close, praying God to bless each
and every one who are striving to serve
Him and keep His commandments.
	SARAH TYSON, Prest. R. S.

	JOHNSON, KANE Co., April, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The sisters of Johnson were called to-
gether by Bishop S. E. Johnson, Feb. 11,
1878, and a Relief Society was organized
with Sisters Jane C. Johnson as President,
Mary A. Johnson, and Louisa Shumway,
Counselors. The Bishop and Counselors
gave us excellent instruction concerning

[Column 2]

the duties of Relief Societies, and exhort-
ed the sisters to be united and prayerful
that the Spirit of the Lord might be with
them to lead and guide them. There are
several copies of the EXPONENT taken by
the members of the Society here and the
instructions are read with interest.
	As ever, your sister, etc.
		C. A. JOHNSON, Sec'y.

	WELLSVILLE, CACHE Co.,
		April, 6th, 78.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Sometime has elapsed since the readers
of the EXPONENT have heard a voice from
the Relief Society of this place; though
careless in this respect, we are not lying
dormant. We hold meetings twice in each
month, and have a general attendance of
the sisters of this place. With the aid of
the brethren we have completed a neat lit-
tle building containing three rooms, one of
which is large enough for holding our
meetings, one for a Library and Reading
room, and one for a Store in which will be
sold home-products. Our Relief House, as
it is termed, was dedicated on the 18th of
March of the present year, on the occasion
of which, we had the pleasure of a visit
from the Presidency of this Stake of Zion,
who after meeting in the Meeting House,
then proceeded to the Relief House, where
the dedicatory prayer was offered by Bish-
op Wm. B. Preston. Brief addresses were
delivered by Prest. Moses Thatcher, and
W. D. Hammond, after which Bishop Wm.
H. Maughan, of this place, offered the clos-
ing prayer.
Yours in the bond of faith,
	Ellen Whiton, President,
	Margaret Woodward,		Counselors,
	Martha Howell,				
	Lucy Haslam, Secretary.


A WILLING PEOPLE.

	By the most careful and judicious means
is the spirit of willingness and obedience
instilled into the hearts of the young.
Where compulsion is the governing power
of a household, the children are found to
be stubborn and willful, unjust and unrelia-
ble. It has become a well established fact
that to secure loving, cheerful and obedient
spirits for offspring, men and women must
educate and govern themselves according-
ingly, previous to taking upon themselves
the obligations of parentage. Possibly, the
responsibility of parents in this matter, is
even greater before than after the birth of
their children; however, it does not end
here, by any means. The same careful dis-
cipline is still requisite, for both parents
and children, in order to maintain in the
home circle, peace, gentleness and har-
mony which ever arises from a willingness
to do right, and be led not driven.
	There is no Latter-day Saint mother, who
does not desire most earnestly that HER
children may be counted worthy to be num-
bered among the people of God. Who
would not find joy unspeakable in the con-
templation of bearing and rearing sons who
should become noble, godlike men—pro-
phets, priests and kings in the midst of Is-
rael. And daughters pure and lovely
worthy in all respects to be the companions
of God's most righteous servants.
	According to the ancient prophet, the
people of God are to be WILLING in the day
of His power. WILLING, we may believe,
to walk in all holiness before the Lord.
WILLING to serve Him in unity and meek-
ness.  WILLING to abide His laws and keep


His commandments, not in part, but the
whole.
	Mothers in Zion see to it, that you dis-
cipline yourself and your children in such
a way that the truth may be easy for you
and them to comprehend and cling to, be-
cause of your willingness to love and serve
the Lord and forsake all evil. Remember
that the unwilling will not be numbered
among the people of God in the day of His
power.
	MABEL.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MISS MATILDA Hindman is in Colorado
organizing Equal Rights County Leagues,
in advance of the elections. The lady
seems to be having excellent success in her
work.

	THE GOVERNOR of California has recent-
ly signed a bill No 66, to allow women the
right to practice law in that country. A
member of the Senate writes "the good
news in a jubilant spirit." But it was a
close shave; only two majority in a full
house.

	THE EXECUTIVE Committee of the Mass-
achusetts Woman Suffrage Association, at
their last regular monthly meeting, unani-
mously passed a vote of thanks to the mem-
bers of the Legislature who supported by
vote and speech the petitions for Woman
Suffrage.

	THE CALIFORNIA Woman Suffrage As-
sociation held a public meeting at No. 14
Hoppin Homestead Building, San Francis-
co, last week. Miss Rosa E. G. Hazard
read an essay on "Daniel Deronda," which
was followed by a paper on "Gwendolen"
and general discussion.—EX.

	AN ARTICLE in the "Woman's Journal"
of Apr. 20, entitled "Woman's Rights
Means Temperance," contains some very
good logic: after quoting a very touching
paragraph from Mrs. A. Elmore's temperance
article, "Specimen of Work Done Inside,"
the writer, Mrs. Harriet N. K. Goff, goes
on to say, we find no fault with this in-
struction as far as it goes: alluding to "wo-
man's love as a shield," etc., she says,
"But how is the affection of a wife which
simply clings to a besotted husband and
which oozes out the more, the more
he kicks and beats her, to be cultiva-
ted or approved?" She informs us that her
experience has been extensive in the tem-
perance work among all classes, and all goes
to prove that wives and mothers need more
admonitions to inform their intellects and
cultivate personal and mental independence,
than to pour out the wealth of their hearts
—to develop more of the judicious element
in the love they now lavish so freely, and
to become less of the "vine" and more of
the "oak." Mrs. Goff gives some apt il-
lustrations of man's brutality and woman's
deficiences to meet the case, and says: "True
pure shielding love" is just what both hus-
band and wife need, that it must be recip-
rocal; they must work together and not be
continually crying out to each other "hands
off," this is my sphere, keep to your own."


TRUE greatness drapes itself gracefully
with the mantle of humility.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


AN ESSAY ON FAITH.

	We all know that Faith is one of the first
principles of the Gospel, and is at the founda-
tion of all truth. Certainly without faith we
could not comprehend the Gospel, as it is the
leading principle, and by it we draw near unto
God, our Heavenly Father, who is ready and
willing at all times to hear and answer our
prayers, if we go unto Him in faith, nothing
doubting.
	We are living in a momentous period, and it
behooves us to exercise faith, for if we have
sufficient faith we will not be afraid of what-
ever opposition and ridicule we may have to
encounter from the world, for faith enables us
to rely entirely upon our Father in heaven,
knowing that if we are faithful He will sustain
and uphold us in all trials and difficulties.
	When we look upon the so-called Christian
world what a contrast it presents to the faith
of the Latter-day Saints! they claim to believe
the Bible, and say that it is sufficient for their
salvation, and yet they do not believe in the
gifts and blessings which St. Paul said should
characterize the Church of Christ, but tell us
they are done away, and are not necessary in
our day; but we believe differently, for St. Paul,
in comparing the Church to the body of Christ,
says, 1st Cotinthians, 12th chapter, 23d verse:
"For God hath set some in the Church, first,
Apostles, secondly, Prophets, thirdly, Teachers,
after that miracles, then gifts of healing, helps,
governments, diversities of tongues." St.
Paul further says, in his Epistle to the Ephe-
sians, 14th chap., 12th verse, they were "given
for the perfecting of the Saints, for the work of
the ministry, for the edifying of the body of
Christ, till we all come to the unity of the
faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God,
unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the
stature of the fulness of Christ." I would ask,
"Have all come to a unity of the faith? It cer-
tainly does not look so. We all know we are
enabled by faith to lay hold of the promises
which are given us. Let us, then, try to walk
in accordance with the principles of faith,
truth and righteousness in which we are en-
gaged, and fight agatnst sin and temptation,
or anything of a destroying nature, that would
lead us astray from doing the will of our Fa-
ther.		J. F. Q.
	16th Ward, S. L. Oity.


[Column 1]
MRS. M. L. MORRIS
Wishes to announce to her former patrons and others
that she
CLEANS, REMODELS AND DYES
STRAW AND TUSCAN HATS.
LEGHORN made a specialty. Ladies' own material
made up.
Residence—One block west and half a block
south of Court House.

SILKWORM EGGS FOR SALE
at the residence of 
MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG,
State Road, 13th Ward.
Price $4 00 Per Ounce.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and 
Saleroom to
No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the latest Parisian style and shape.  Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every-
thing pertaining to a first-class Mil[-]nery Establishment,
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

[Column 2]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
Salt Lake City.	97 Kimball Block.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.
[Drawing of a knitting device]
	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
GEO. A. LUKE & CO.,
Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-]f and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of 
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE 
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING,
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descr[-]ptions.
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK. 

ROWE'S 
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
AT
TEASDEL'S.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY,
FOR ALL KINDS OF 
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND ADDRESS—Main Street, over Dr.
Richards' Drug Store, nearly opposite Z.C.M.I.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are p[-]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS,
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake [--]


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1878	No. 24


[For the EXPONENT.
				TO QUERY,

AND ALL MY DEAR SISTERS IN ZION.

		"All the mothers are abroad to-day
		Guiding tiny feet along the way,
		Crowning tender brows with garlands gay.

		"But among the mothers we shall meet,
		Pausing oft to favor little feet,
		None will be so blest as I, my sweet.

		"None among the children is so fair
		As my baby with her golden hair
		Like the aureoles the angels wear."

								FLORENCE PERCY. 

	Dear friend, come lay your cool hand on my brow,
		Come count the measured beatings of my heart
	And know 'tis not my own and single woe,
		From all my precious sisterhood apart,
	That stirs such depth of feeling in my breast
		And wrings such bitter tear-drops from my eyes,
	For mine the noble mate of soul possessed
		Too great, too true to wear such selfish guise."

	Not his the tongue a scornful word to fling,
		To wonnd a sister soul and rankle there;
	Not his the heart to whisper I am king
		And she my subject now and evermore;
	Not he says haughtily This child is mine,
		But tenderly and proudly It is ours;
	And deems the marriage vow a pledge divine
		Of mutual bonds, and equal joys and powers.

	Frail, woman's strength and heavy is her load,
		But true her heart and full of love and trust;
	Does man so far excel that he dare boast
		"I am your head," and still say God is just?
	Nay, call this truth, upon a single throne
		The King and Queen together reign as one;
	No mine, no thine, no first nor last be known,
		But we desire our Father's will be done.

										LU DALTON.
St. George, May 7th, 1878.


[Column 1]

SCRIPTURE WOMEN.

BY HANNAH T. KING.
[concluded.]

	I now present another tableau in the life
of the sisters of Bethany, "Six days before
the passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where
he had raised Lazarus from the dead; there
they made him a supper, and Martha serv-
ed; but Lazarus was one that sat at table
with him. Then Mary took a box of oint-
ment of spikenard, very costly, and
anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped them
with her hair, and the house was filled with
the sweet odor of the ointment. Judas
who was present, objected saying, why was
not this ointment sold for three hundred
pence and given to the poor; not that he
cared for the poor, but he "carried the bag"
and was a dishonest man, and wanted to
handle the money. Then said Jesus "Let
her alone, against the day of my burial
hath she done this;" again did he sustain
her. From this time we hear no more of
Martha. Time passes, the Savior's life on
earth is drawing to a close; his life has
been one of obedience, and now approaches
his suffering death. At his crucifixion we
read that there stood by his cross Mary, his
mother, and Mary, the wife of Cleophas,
and Mary Magdalene; true unto the death
were these most remarkable and highly
favored women; they wait and watch all
through those tremendous sufferings, they
hear his last groan, his last words "It is fin-
ished;" still they wait till the body is taken

[Column 2]

down from the accursed tree. They see it
received by kind and appreciative friends,
laid in a new tomb, embalmed by sweet
spices, myrrh and aloes, according to the
order of the Jews, and robed in linen
pure and white, and all of his troubled life
is over. We pass on—"The first day of the
week cometh Mary Magdalene while it was
yet dark, unto the Sepulchre, and seeth the
stone taken away; she then goes to Peter
and other disciples whom Jesus loved and
tells them, they have taken away the Lord
out of the Sepulchre, and we know not
where they have laid him. The disciples
return with her, and make their own obser-
vations, they then go away to their own
houses; but Mary remained mourning at
the sepulchre, and stooping down she look-
eth in, and saw two angels in white, sitting
one at the head and the other at the feet
where the body of Jesus had lain; and they
say unto her, "Why weepest thou?" She
answered, because they have taken away
my Lord, and I know not where they have
laid him; and turning round she beheld a
personage standing by her, whom she
thought must be the gardener, and said to
him, Sir, if thou hast borne him hence, tell
me where thou hast laid him, and I will
take him away. Jesus saith unto her
Mary! she turned herself and saith unto
him Rabboni! How often have I pondered
on this most wonderful scene; I have pic-
tured it in my mind and tried to realize it.
How was it that she did not know him till
he pronounced her name? What was the
tone in which he uttered it? Why did she
instantly recognize him? Why were her
eyes instantly opened? Was it some tone
of peculiar graciousness, in which he had
at times addressed her? There must have
been some power, some intuition that flung
the veil from her vision as he pronounced
that ever pure and beautiful name, and she
answers it by another name, grand and
glorious Rabboni! I seem easily to realize
her tone, even her attitude, and the very
expression of her countenance yes even the
very sensations of her soul at that blissful
moment of her life! Did it not repay her
for all her sufferings? Methinks it was in-
deed the pearl dissolved in the acid cup of
life! I picture her throwing herself upon
her knees and stooping to kiss his feet, but
he exclaims, "Touch me not, for I have not
yet ascended to my Father! but go to my
brethren and say unto them, I ascend to
my Father and to your Father, to my God,
and your God! What gracious comforting
words are these, how they call forth the
love and worship of every Saint; how pas-
sive we feel under their god-like influence.
Blessed Mary! blessed Martha! blessed all
noble women upon the face of the wide-
spread earth! God loves them, they are
his special care; only let them be true to
themselves. Woman know thyself—study
thy divine mechanism; leave the science
of mathamatics if you must give up one;
but read yourself like an open book. Walk
through the length and breadth of your
heart and brain, and you will find the hand
of God has been busy there; see that you
render back some return to the Divine
Architect. The Scriptures say no more on
the Sisters of Bethany, but it is all written
in that book which has yet to be opened.

[Column 3]

	The next character the inspired penman
describes as a woman full of good works,
and alms deeds; by name, Tabitha or Dor-
cas; she took sick and died, and the friends
prepared her body for interment. They
then sent two men to Peter desiring that
he would not delay coming unto them; and
he arose and went with the messengers,
and they took him into an upper room
where the body was laid, washed and dress-
ed for burial; and all the saints and widows
stood by him weeping, and shewing the
coats and garments that Dorcas had made
while she was with them. But Peter put
them all forth and kneeled down and pray-
ed, and turning him to the body, said Ta-
bitha arise! and she opened her eyes, and
when she saw Peter she sat up, and he gave
her his hand and lifted her up; and when
he had called the saints and widows, he
presented her alive! and many believed on
the Lord.
	I have taken only the most prominent
women of Scripture, and even their charac-
ters are very brief in holy writ; I might
have elaborated them more, but I felt our
paper is small, and I must not exceed my
allotted space; enough has been said to ex-
cite interest in some minds that, perhaps,
have not made the old Scriptures much of
a study, but the models are fine and we
should study them.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	DEFINITION OF TRUE POLITENESS: "One
who listens with interest to things he
knows all about, when they are told by a
person who knows nothing about them."

	THE just-published report of an Irish be-
nevolent society contains one paragraph
rich in caustic humor. It says—"notwith-
standing the large amount paid for mede-
cine and medical attendance, very few
deaths occurred during the year.

	AT the recent close of the sittings in the
Illinois House of Representatives, the
clerk read the following: "I am requested
ed to announce that the Rev. Dr. Mc'Far-
land will deliver a lecture this evening in
the Hall "On Education of Idiots" mem-
bers of the Legislature are invited to at-
tend.

	THE novel which has attained the larg-
est circulation during the life of its author,
and the novel which has brought its author
the largest profit, were both written by wo-
men, viz., "Uncle Tom's Cabin," which is
believed to have sold to the extent of a
million copies, and "Daniel Deronda," which
has yielded £16,000.

	FOR some time after the fall of Napoleon
III., the Royal Family seemed not to un-
derstand how to treat the Bonapartes. The
Queen did not even visit her old friend the
Empress for nearly a month. But now the
friendship is established very safely. The
Prince of Wales and Prince Louis Napoleon
are great friends, and a constant series of
visits kept up between Chiselhurst and
Marlborough House.


186		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	The Fourth Annual Meeting of the Y.
L. M. I. A. of the First Ward was held
Apr. 2, 1878. After the usual exercises
and reading of the minutes, the President
Mrs. Sarah Graham alluded to their organi-
zation four years previous and the good re-
sults of their labors in spiritual improve-
ment, and closed by saying several of the
sisters of great wisdom and experience had
been invited to speak to them. Miss E.
R. Snow made some interesting remarks
and urged upon the young the necessity of
earnestness and prompt action in attending
to duties and responsibilities in the church
and kingdom of God. She spoke of the de-
sire of the saints to become Saviors upon
Mount Zion, and that it required the people
of God to help redeem the human family,
otherwise there was no attaining such a
high position, such blessings were not for
those who followed after the fashions of the
world; if any of us thought so we would
meet with disappointments, and she feared
that many would. Miss Snow remarked
that in many instances the young ladies
who had stepped forward in the organiza-
tions for improvement had exerted a pow-
erful influence for good over the young
men in their respective districts. She gave
much good advice to the President of the
Association in regard to the influence that
could be used with the young. She felt
the subject was inexhaustible and that we
required the aid of the Spirit of God con-
tinually in disciplining and molding the
daughters of Zion for future usefulness in
the church and kingdom of God. Mrs. M.
I. Horne thought many of the sisters did
not realize and fully appreciate the bless-
ings and privileges which were bestowed
upon them, said that those who lived near-
est to the Lord were the happiest under all
circumstances. Exhorted the young ladies
to honor the principle of Celestial Marriage.
Mrs. Horne dwelt quite earnestly upon the
principle of order and the necessity of in-
culcating it in the habits of our children at
an early age; thought that example was be-
fore precept with the young and regretted
that many mothers paid so little heed to
their own lives; made some excellent re-
marks upon economy and the management
of home; said that children should be
taught respect and obedience in early life;
said many other good things. Counselors
Agnes Campbell, Jane Van Tassell, Ellen
Hill, Miss Amy Adams, Mrs. M. G. Chase,
President of the Relief Society, and Mrs.
Margaret Steel her Counselor, all made re-
marks calculated to benefit and stimulate
the young ladies in their efforts to improve.
	Some business in the interest of the As-
sociation was transacted previous to ad-
journment. The good spirit seemed to rest
upon all present.
	AMY H. ADAMS, Secretary.

	PLEASANT GROVE, Apr. 24th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Not having been represented through the
columns of your much esteemed paper, for
some time, we herewith send a report of 
our progress. At our last monthly meeting
we were favored with a visit from a num-
ber of sisters from American Fork, who
spoke interestingly on experience gained
in this church, and bore faithful testimony
of the divinity of the Latter-day work; the
Spirit of God was present with us, and we
were mutually benefitted.
	Our Annual Report ending Jan. 6th, 1878,
reprensented the Society in a prosperous

[Column 2]

state financially. We have stock in Co-op
Store and Provo Factory, three city lots well-
fenced, where we have planted mulberry
and fruit trees, all these with property in
treasury amounting to $ 1,075. 10.
	The aged and infirm are cared for and
supplied with necessaries. We have not
been idle in the good work of storing grain;
we own a bin in the United Order Granary,
a substantial rock building just completed,
capable of storing one thousand bushels of
grain, having one hundred and fifty bush-
els on hand at present.
	We, as a society are striving to increase
our efforts for good and wish ever to be
found valiant in the cause of Zion.
	P. E. Brown, Sec'y.
	F. E. Stuart, Ass't.

	VIRGIN CITY, KANE CO., Feb. 15, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In our Relief Society the sisters are do-
ing the best they can under the circumstan-
ces. We cannot raise much wheat here,but
still we wish to store up all we can for Zion-
The sisters are now busily engaged in mak-
ing quilts, and as a general thing feel well,
and try to assist in all good works, such as
donating means for the building of Temples
and also helping to feed and clothe those
who work on them. The health of the peo-
ple of our little settlement is good, with
the exception of a few who have bad colds
We are having a heavy rain storm, the
first for a long time.
	SARAH A. WORKMAN

	HEBER CITY, WASATCH Co, Apr. 78.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of Heber City was
organized June 7, 1869, Mrs. Margaret
Muir was elected President, Mrs. Ann Mur-
dock and Mrs. Mary Mc'Mullin, Counselors,
Mrs. Ann Harvey, Secretary, and Mrs.
Amelia Gallagher, Treasurer. The Society
numbers ninety-nine members, and has
supported three persons almost entirely for
a number of years, besides giving aid to
several others. We have erected and fin-
ished a commodious building one and a half
stories high for meetings and general busi-
ness of the society; cost estimated at from
five to six hundred dollars. We have pre-
sented the branch of the Church of Heber
City with a Silver Service for Sacramental
purposes, which cost eighty dollars; and
paid to the Deseret Silk Association, six-
teen dollars and twenty cents;also have one
share in the Co-operative Store, of ten dol-
lars; one share in the Tannery, twenty dol-
lars; and donated ten dollars to the Salt
Lake City Temple. We are now earnestly
considering the necessity of laying up
grain; Mrs. Ann Murdock and Mrs. Cath-
rine Foreman were appointed a committee
to attend to that business. We have been
assisted all through our labors and exer-
tions by the wise counsel of President
Hatch. The officers at present are as fol-
lows: Mrs. M. Muir, President, Mrs. A.
Murdock and Mrs. Jane Hatch, Counselors,
Mrs. Ellen Lee, Secretary, and Mrs. Louisa
Johnson, Treasurer.
	Yours very Respectfully,
		ELLEN LEE.

	ROCKPORT, May 4th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our little Society was organized Septem-
ber 20, 1873 with twenty members, by Bish-

[Column 3]

ops' Atwood and Harder from Kamas, with
the the following sisters as officers:
	Ann Bryant, President,
	Elizabeth Vernon,		Counselors,
	Alice M. Malin,
	Sarah Staker, Secretary
	Charlotte Marchent, Treasurer.
	There has been donated to our Society
since that time..............................$	77 80
	Disbursed to the poor...........	23 80
	Salt Lake Temple................	23 80
	Indian Clothing..................	  9 70
	Wheat for storing..............	  3 00
	Centennial Flag...................	 13 00
	Silk Worms..........................	  3 00
	Lumber for wheat bin...........	  2 00
		Total				77 80
	Have now in Treasury in quilts
		and sundries...................	10 50
	Cash....................................	  7 25
		Total				17 75
	This last sum was obtained by making
articles and selling them.
	The Society raised twenty-two bushels of
wheat on a piece of land belonging to Bish-
op Edwin Bryant. After furnishing seed
last year we had on hand bought and donat-
ed, eight bushels, making on hand in bin,
thirty bushels.
	We held our yearly meeting April 1st,
1878. Teachers reported our members feel-
ing well. After the usual exercises the
sisters spoke to one another, exhorting to
good words and works. We are trying to
do the best we can and wish to be one with
other branches of the Relief Society in
Zion.
	Ever praying for the welfare of the
Daughters of Zion, we remain your sisters
in the Gospel,
	ANN BRYANT, President.
	SARAH STAKER, Secretary.

	FAIRFIELD, UTAH CO., April 16, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	We the Young Ladies' M. I. A., have
long wished to have a few lines in your lit-
tle paper to show our sisters and friends
that we have a welfare in Zion. Having
been reorganized we will let you know
what we are doing. Our society is very
small, our former president and a number
other sisters having moved away, leaves us
but few in number, although we feel deter-
mined to be united and do all in our power
to forward the great and mighty work in
these Latter-days. We have begun storing
grain and feel it a duty that all the Saints
should take interest in. We have had a
great deal of the opposite spirit to contend
with, although by adhering to good coun-
sel, also having faith and unity, we are
gaining ground, and feel greatly encourag-
ed, and know that there is encouragement
for all who seek faithfully for the paths that
our Savior trod. We meet every Tuesday,
and hold a conjoint meeting once a month.
Our prayers are fervent for all who seek af-
ter righteousness. We take the EXPO-
NENT which is a welcome friend, and wish
it success.
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		Zilpha R. Young, President,
		Marintha Carson,
		Sophy Beesinger,	Counselors
		Sophy Beesinger, Secretary,
		Caroline Carson, Treasurer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		187


ADIEU TO THE VIOLETS..

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Farewell loved harbingers of Spring!
		Thy glory's past, thy reign is o'er,
	No more shall I thy beauties sing
		Thy luscious sweets inhale no more!

	How many a moment of delight
		Thy sweets bestowed thy presence gave,
	But now thou'rt fading from my sight
		And passing to thy humble grave!

	Tis ever thus, with things of earth
		The loveliest e'er the lost one is—
	But all must die that e'er had birth
		Though 'bodying all our earthly bliss.

	Though thou art gone, on memory's page
		Thy modest worth shall cling to me,
	And thou through life, in good or ill,
		My humble monitor still shall be.

	Like thee, may I in humble guise
		Far from the world live out my days
	Its pomps and vanities despise
		Upheld amid its luring maze—

	And when the hand of death appears
		Which no vain mortal can control,
	And friends have shed the parting tears
		And Christ, my God received my soul,

	Then raise for me no "storied Urn,"
		No gorgeous Temple be my bed,
	My native earth upon me turn
		And plant the Violet at my head;

	There, like that sweet and humble flower
		May I (the grave's cold winter past)
	Bloom forth again in Heaven's own bower
		When summoned by the trumpet's blast.

Salt Lake City, May, 1878.


[Column 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

	LAIE, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
		April 8th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In my last I told you I would try and
glean some information concerning the cus-
toms and manners of this people, that would
be interesting to the readers of our paper.
When I see the habits of this people the
old saying is brought forcibly to my mind,
"one half of the world has but little idea
how the other half live." The males here,
as a general thing, take what we call the
heavier part of the house work, cooking
and preparing the food, and frequently do
their own washing and ironing. For a wo-
man to have a meal prepared for her hus-
band when he returns from work would, to
say the least, be out of the common course
of doing business here, not that the women
are lazy, but it is not customary. Many of
the women work in the field, and at many
kinds of out door work, to almost as good
advantage as the men. They make their
own clothes, and sometimes their husbands.
They are all good braiders, make their own
hats, which are very nice and becoming to
the people, and adapted to the climate; they
also braid a great many mats out of the 
Pandamus leaf, which constitutes the prin-
cipal part of the furniture of a genuine
Hawaiian house; they compose the floor, and
by adding a few extra ones at one end of
the room, they answer for bed and bed-
stead, and a smaller one to spread down in
the centre at meal time, is all that is neces-
sary for a table; some few have tables but
they are more for an ornament than for use.
They never think of spreading their food
upon them and sitting around them as we
do. It is becoming fashionable with the
more wealthy to have a few chairs in the
room, but a native seldom uses one, custom
having made the mat or floor an easier seat
for him.
	Their style of washing clothes is quite

[Column 2]

different and much easier, I think, than
ours. Taking them to the brook or spring,
they soak them and place them on a flat
rock, sit down and pound them with a
stick, or stone, until the dirt is out; pouring
clean water over them as they require it;
but clothes washed in this primitive way
do not last as long as they do with our more
mild treatment. This people are not epi-
cures, they do not require to be taught re-
trenchment, especially in their diet. as
their appetites scarcely ever crave more
than three or four kinds of food at the same
meal. Poi is the staff of life with them,
as bread is with us; the next most pal-
atable viand is raw fish, and also cooked
pork; after which comes what they call ex-
tras, li-mu (sea moss) na we, (a species of
shell fish) bannannas, etc., on this fare any no-
ble of the land could feast. Their habit how-
ever in irregular eating frequently leads
many of them to overload their stomachs,
and is the cause, I believe, of much sick-
ness among them.
	The District Conference for this Island,
was held at Honolulu on the 30th, and 31st
ult., at which a great many of the Saints
were present from different parts of the
island, as well as quite a number of unbe-
lievers. Her Majesty Queen Kapiolani at-
tended the services Sunday morning, and
gave attention to the teachings of Elders
J. S. Woodbury, H. P. Richards, J. Gates,
jr., and M. K. Hawaii, who bore a strong
testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
	Our regular Conference here closed on
the 7th inst , different branches on all the
islands being much better represented than
usual on such occasions. A good spirit was
manifested by all, and much valuable in-
struction was given to the elders both for-
eign and native.
	We are having a severe drouth which is
very detrimental to this little place. The
verdure on our once evergreen hills and
slopes, presents an appearance of having
been frost-bitten. Such an extreme drouth
has not been known for many years, which
is causing much suffering both to man and
beast.
	Your sister and fellow laborer in the
cause of Truth.
	J. E. MOLEN.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

	MAYFIELD, SANPETE CO., Apr. 28, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT :
	As we have not yet given any account of
our Society, we are anxious to do so. Be-
fore the reorganization of the Church we
were two societies; but we were called to-
gether at a special meeting appointed by
Bishop O. C. Olsen and Counselor Henry
Jenson, and Thomas A. Williams, and
were reorganized into one society on the
2nd of August, 1877. We have fifty-four
members and officers as follows: 
	Sina Neilson, President;
		Maria Olsen, 
		Elsey C. Christensen,	} Counselors.
		Etta Williams,
		Matilda Olsen,		} Secretaries.
		Sina Larson, Treasurer.
	We are most picturesquely situated in
this vicinity, but rather in a scattered con-
dition, a creek and a piece of farming land
being between the settlement. We have
our meetings twice a month and enjoy our-
selves together very much. The largest
portion of our town lies on the south side
of the creek, the meeting house being on
that side, and we have lively good meet-
ings, our brethren meeting with us occa-
sionally and giving us encouragement to go

[Column 2]
on in the work in which we are engaged.
We have a lot on the Public Square which
we intend to fence and plant with mul-
berry trees as soon as we can, we also have
a lot of two and a half acres on the north
side of the creek. We have one hundred,
and twenty-three bushels of wheat stored,
and some other means in our Treasury.
There are several numbers of the EXPO-
NENT taken in this place and we are very
much interested when we peruse its pages.
	May God bless and prosper all the sisters
that are engaged in the Latter-day work is
the prayer of yours truly, 	
			ETTA WILLIAMS, Seretary.

	CLARKSTON, CACHE CO. April 9th, ’78.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We were reorganized in a Young Ladies
Mutual Improvement Association, March
5th, 1877, by our Bishop John Jardine; of-
ficers as follows.
	Marinda Homer, President,
	Sarah Walker,
	Emily J. Homer,
	Sarah Clark,
	Isabel Morton,
	Huldah Malmberg,
	Margaret Archibald,	} Counselors
	Mary A. Homer, Secretary,
	Agnes Jardine, Treasurer.
	Since our organization we have donated
five dollars to the Salt Lake Temple; nine 
dollars to our new meeting house; and are
now trying to do something for the Tem-
ple at Logan. Our meetings are well at-
tended, in them we feel well and enjoy the
spirit of the Gospel. We desire to improve
ourselves by refraining from that which we
know to be evil, by trying to elevate and
cultivate our minds, and by being united
and doing all the good we can.	
	Wishing success to your valuable paper,
we remain your sisters in the Gospel,
			MARINDA HOMER, Pres't.
			MARY A. HOMER, Sec'y. 
	MINERSVILLE, BEAVER CO., Apr 15, 78.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you the Annual Report of our So-
ciety, read at our Annual meeting, which
shows our society to be in a prosperous con-
dition; we have laid up seventy-five bush-
els of grain, which we intend adding to as
fast as possible; we are anxious to do all the
good we can, and wish to try and carry out
in a proper manner, the counsel that is giv-
en us. We have commenced making straw
hats and hope to make this business a suc-
cess. A short time ago the sisters arrang-
ed a dance and picnic, and the brethren
turned out and fenced our city lot which we
intend setting out in mulberry trees as
soon as we can obtain them, for we wish to
be one wtth our sisters in trying to raise
silk. Our society numbers fifty members
and we hold our meetings every two weeks
when we receive good counsel and instruc-
tion from our president and many others of
the sisters. We are desirous of doing all
the good we can in this great work in which
we are engaged.
	Annual Report ending March 7, 1878.
	Donations to Temple		$ 24 75
	Donations received			50 37
	Property in Society			78 22
	Disbursements			118 32
	Balance in Treasury		35 02
	We remain your sisters in the Gospel,
		Polly Ann Zebriskia, President;
		Sarah Myres,
		Nancy Blackburn,	} Counselors.
		Susan Roberts, Secretary,
		Jane Corbridge, Treasurer.


188		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms; One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MAY. 15, 1878.


FINIS OF VOLUME SIX.

THE present number closes the Sixth Volume
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. We trust our
patrons will make some effort to renew their
subscriptions promptly and also to extend the
circulation so as to enable us to enlarge it, or
make it a weekly. At the end of each volume
it has been the aim to do so, but money comes in
so slowly that as yet it has been utterly impos-
sible to do more than keep out of debt. It is
doubtful whether the women of this Territory
realize the power they hold in their own hands
for good, in having a newspaper in which they
can represent their views, and encourage all
home-industries. The WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
during the time of its publication, has done a
vast amount of home and foreign missionary
work, as we have an abundant opportunity of
knowing. We trust the numerous friends of
the EXPONENT will use their utmost influence
through the agency of women's organizations
in the Territory, to make the paper all that the
most earnest workers in woman's cause could
desire, by their help, their faith and their pray-
ers; and rest assured no pains shall be spared on
our part to sustain it.


[Column 1]

EDUCATE THE HEART.

	It is just possible there is a neglect in the
present age of hurry and bustle, of the culti-
vation of the affections. People are too anx-
ious to "get on in the world" to take time to
cultivate sentiment, and so one of the most
prolific sources of happiness is left barren. To
be sure novelists do this sort of thing and in
many cases the work is left entirely to them;
but generally their heroes and heroines are
only possessed of one selfish, passionate, all-
controlling love that absorbs every other gen-
erous attachment, and consequently the effect
is not to inculcate generosity of soul and lib-
erality of heart. This love cannot be defined
as sentiment in any wide sense.
	Everything now bands towards the cultiva-
tion of the mind, and if the balance is pretty
equally divided between the mind and the
body, one is apt to think that such a person is
likely to make life a success. But to every
human soul however prosperous life may be in
the aggregate, there is an abstract element of
sentiment that at times makes itself per-
ceptibly felt, if one's heart is not wholly hard-
ened in the pursuit of knowledge or of gain;
and this like an inward monitor leads one to
exclaim "All is vanity!"
	Sentiment in the broadest acceptation of the
term is something so elevating and inspiring
that it adds more to the true enjoyment of
life than all the learning we gather from
books. What is it gives such sweet content to
the humble cottager?  It is a true affection for

[Column 2]

family and friends; it is the genuine sentiment
of the heart springing from the fresh and pure
fountains within. In almost all natures this
element is spontaneous, until it is choked by
pride, or avarice, or torn up by harshness or
some other powerful controlling influence, de-
veloped by circumstances or education.
	What is life to the little child who grows up
without love? A barren dreary waste. To
some persons of strong mental or physical
powers that rule them wholly, life without
love may be made fruitful by working out an
enterprise or accomplishing some settled
purpose; but in nine cases out of ten, the
child who is not cherished with love is like
a solitary tree in the desert, which dies a
literal death for the want of nature's vegetating
nourishment, leaving a withered trunk devoid
of beauty, and roots dried up and sapless. It
has the sunshine, it has the soil, but it has not
the soft gentle rain, nor the moisture of the 
[-]ills beneath that silently invigorate the roots.
So is the child without love. Its tenderer na-
ture dies, it has not been nourished with that
affection that calls into play the finer qualities
of the heart, and it grows up without the soft-
ening, tender influences which make the spirit
pliable and the heart yielding. No life is so
full and complete as that into which enters all
the finer elements of pure and genuine affec-
tion. In persons possessing the highest culti-
vation of the heart we find the most exalted
appreciation of all the beauties of nature's realms;
the song of birds, the ripple of water, the sigh-
ing of trees, the lowing of far off kine, the bleat-
ing of lambs, and all the delightful sounds that
make up the harmony of nature's rhythm, the
soft and indefinable influences which thrill the
soul with music, and make pleasant the rough-
est way, and brighten the darkest path, strik-
ing a sympathetic chord in the soul which
echoes through all its holiest emotions.
	Jesus, in His teachings appeals constantly to
the heart, and seldom, if ever, refers to the in-
tellect. St. Paul declared "knowledge puffeth
up, but charity edifieth," and charity is one of
the finest qualities of the human heart. And
the logic that carries conviction to the heart is
true logic, and the sure testimony is that
which finds an echo in the soul. Faith is
another element which exists in the human
heart, and if cultivated, is most productive of
love, "perfect faith is born of perfect love."
	Mothers draw closely to you the hearts of
your children; never let any coldness spring up,
keep the fountain of love and affection ever
pure; you can do much towards making them
kind, tender and forbearing with love; do not
imagine that personal habits have nothing
to do with molding the feelings and principles
of your children. Let the associations in child-
hood be such as shall draw out the better and
kindlier nature, rather than the rough disciplin-
ing of harshness and severity by which many
a boy and girl have been driven to seek among
strangers the kindness they failed to find at
home.
	In the hour of trial that eventually comes to
all, in the time of sorrow, "when all things
earthly, seem empty," where does the heart
seek for consolation? In the Lord, yes; but how
dear are the tender ministrations of affection
for which instinctively as it were, the heart
yearns; then those who excel in superiority of
heart, whose kindly souls are fullest of
real sympathy are the best comforters. Heart
speaks to heart in the rich eloquence of tender-
ness and "we weep with those who weep," "we
mourn with those who mourn."


SCHOOLBOY'S THEORY:—Teacher: "How
is the earth divided my lad?" Ans. "By
earthquakes sir."


HOME AFFAIRS.

	REPORTS have been received from Tres Ala-
mis, Clarkston, Cedar City, Malad, Ephraim,
Rockville and Herriman, which we will give to
the public as early as possible. We have also
on hand other productions in poetry and prose,
but we solicit more matter from our contribu-
tors that we may be able to cull the best.

	MRS ELLIS R. SHIPP, M.D., having recently
returned from Philadelphia, has opened an of-
fice for practice in Bishop Hunter's former resi-
dence, on Main Street, well known to all old
settlers. Her advertisement appears now, for
the first time, in our columns. Mrs. Shipp hav-
ing thoroughly qualified herself for the profes-
sion, we trust will receive the patronage of the
public.

	WE CALL attention to the card of Dr. Ellen
B. Ferguson, in another column. This lady
who has been engaged in the practice of medi-
cine for the past fifteen years, has met with re-
markable success in the treatment of diseases
of children, especially diphtheria and other
diseases affecting the throat and lungs. We
would also announce that the classes in Music,
French and Drawing conducted by Dr. Fergu-
son, at her residence, will re-assemble next
week. She will also organize a class of young
ladies and gentlemen for the study of elocution
and dramatic reading.

	THE transit of Mercury which took place on
the 7th inst., gave to the scientists an opportu-
nity to test the photohelioscope, the invention
of M. Angot, which proved to be effective for ob-
servations of this nature and wi[-]l be useful
probably in witnessing the next transit of Ve-
nus in 1882. Photographic views were taken as
the planet traveled across the sun. It is ex-
pected the labors of these scientists during the
transit will materially aid in a more perfect
observation of the next transit of Venus, and
in determining the exact distance of the sun
from the Earth.

	CURTIS MATHEMATICAL MODELS: Mrs. Liz-
zie H. Shipp has the patented right of this
model and wishes to establish agents in city
and county for its sale on liberal terms. She
has located at Mrs. Rumell's millinery store on
Main Street, just below the Co-op Drug store.
Mrs. Shipp is prepared to give instruction with
the sale of the model in its adaptability to
practical use. This model is the invention
of a Latter-day Saint sister, and being a home
production should recommend it to use here
in the Territory. It has acquired a reputation
through the practice of years from some of our
sisters who testify to its having been a com-
plete success. There is one a model for dress-mak-
ing and another for tailoring, both eminently
satisfactory to those who have used them.

	A FEW little girls following the example of
the older ones met at the residence of Mrs. B.
W. Smith and formed what is termed the Ju-
venile Association of Little Girls. The presi-
dent is ten years old the secretary nine. They
have had regular meetings for some months in
which they sing, pray and bear their testimony
to the Gospel. They have recently contributed
means, bought calico and pieced a quilt, the
elder sisters quilted it for them, the children
arranging a picnic for the quilters. The little
girls took the quilt to Bishop Edward Hunter
and donated it to the Temple. The good seed
of the Gospel is being sown, and some of it is
bearing rich fruit. It is easy to predict what
will be the future of such children if they con-
tinue to walk in the narrow way. They will
ripen into noble women, women of God.


THE GENERAL Retrenchment meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Satur-
day, May 11th, was one of special interest.
Counselor Zina D. Young presided and spoke
upon baptism for the dead, prayer and the ne-
cessity of building Temples. Mrs. Young re-
quested the presidents of Relief Societies who
were present to make a few remarks. Big Cot-
tonwood, South Cottonwood and Brighton, al-
so First, Second, Fourth, Ninth and Ffteenth
Wards of the city were represented by their
presidents. The Y. L. M. I. A. of the Ninth,
Fourteenth and Seventeenth Wards were rep-
resented by their respective Superintendents.
Many interesting things were said by these la
dies calculated to stimulate and encourage the
sisters in spiritual improvement, and in prac-
cal work. These meetings are a source of 
spiritual growth to our community; and those
who attend them regularly feel an influence
which helps them to live better lives, and to be
more zealous of good works.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		189


[Column 1]
					For the Exponent.
PECUNIARY DEPENDENCE OF WO-
				MEN.

	It is much against Madame Grundy's rule
for a woman to earn money. If a married wo-
man manages in any direct way to earn her
own pocket money, society immediately
frowns her down—what right has a married
woman to earn money? Why don't her hus-
band support her? These and numberless oth-
er questions are asked if any woman dare be
brave enough, or has sufficient independence
to go out of the common groove. Men usual-
ly are very much ashamed of a wife who in-
sists on earning money herself, and it irritates
them beyond expression to feel that a woman
should want any pocket money she will not
ask them for, and give them an account of.
Don't they provide everything that's neces-
sary, and do they ever refuse to hand over to
the wife for extras? But supposing they want
to spend a little means aside from family ex-
penditures, do they ever feel called upon to ac-
count for it? No, why should they, don't they
earn all the money, every cent. I once heard
a mau make the remark when I was a wee bit
of a girl, "my wife never earned a cent in her
life, I've kept my family in style by my own
hard earnings and business tact, ever since we
were married, and we've had ten children to
educate." This was said as a sort of boast that
he was a good husband and father, but, al-
though I was a very little girl then I knew wo-
men had rights as well as men, though that
woman didn't seem to realize it, and I began
from that time to soliloquize on this subject.
I wonder who endured all the sorrows, trials,
aches and pains incident to bearing those ten
children, and in nursing and rearing them;
who but the mother knows the toil, the pa-
tience, the forbearance it requires, leaving out
the hard work, the making and mending and 
cooking. No doubt the very woman to whom
reference had been made, had done all her
household work, save when help was actually
a necessity. When will men feel that their
wives are equal partners in pecuniary matters?
Many women could manage household expen-
ses much more economically were they al-
lowed to make their own purchases; their na-
tures are adapted to these matters and they
know what is most suitable and really make
better bargains than men, besides taking more
pains to get the right thing, instead of just
anything.
	Women have been led into resorting to all
sorts of snbterfuges, and "telling lots of little

[Column 2]
fi[-]s" to get what they want, or money to make
small purchases; to be sure they should not be
tempted to wrong doing even through unjust
or unkind treatment, but such is the bent of 
human nature. Wives feel they have a right
to a certain portion of the means which the
husband earns, if not by right of wifehood, for
cooking his meals, washing his clothes and be-
ing a domestic servant generally, or "maid of
all work," and "by hook or crook" there are
some who will have it however niggardly the
husband may be with them, or however tight
a string he may draw on his purse. Women
have different methods of getting what they
want, some by coaxing and wheedling, some
by tears and entreaties, and others afraid of an
open rupture, or of being denied will accom-
plish their purpose in a way which actually
degrades them in their own eyes, because they
feel it to be morally wrong, but excuse them
selves by thinking there was no other alterna-
tive. No one need think that married women
have time at their disposal, or inclination to go
and earn money if there were no need of it,
and therefore Madame Grundy should be si-
lent on this score at least. The best of hus-
bands is apt to "put on airs" when the wife
wants extra money, but would be astounded
were she to question him as to how, or where
he spends money that he gives no account of
whatever. Many a man worth his thousands
unconsciously perhaps (for charity's sake we
will grant it so), makes his wife undergo a hu-
miliation as grinding as that of the old Quak-
er's wife in the anecdote, when she trembling-
ly asked him for a little change and was re-
torted upon with the question "What hast
thee done with that dime I gave thee last
week?" And many a woman who lives in an
elegant house (her husband's) and rides in a 
handsome carriage (her husband's) cannot
command sufficient money to purchase any
little trifle without making an explanation of
all the why's and wherefore's, and running the
risk of being snubbed into the bargain, or per-
haps flatly refused. All these things are very
mortifying to a sensitive nature, and if the evil
could be remedied, it would save much unhap-
piness, as well as deceit between husband and 
wife, where perfect concord should exist if not
so much for their own comfort, for the sake of
the children who comprehend much more
readily than parents are apt to imagine the lit-
tle causes of unpleasantness and annoyances
between father and mother.

	There are very few married women compar-
atively speaking, who have any time to earn
money however willing they may be, and
however great may be their tact or ingenuity.
Household cares require strict supervision and
young women raising families need all their
physical and mental vigor for maternity and
motherhood, and the husband if thoughtful
and considerate will render material help to 
his posterity by careful attentions and timely
consideration for the wife and mother. Every
woman under these peculiar circumstances
feels much more acutely any neglect, or in-
difference, any unkindness or denial, and the
husband cannot be too careful of the mother
of his offspring. Yet such unfortunately is
not the case; women must learn to look to the
Lord, to lean on the Lord, so we teach and so
we believe, but this does not leave the hns-
band without excuse. If men who are not
willing women should enter a profession, or go
into business, would set the example of liber-
ality towards women in sharing the means
they earn it might have a good effect. Wo-
men who cut, make, mend and do all the work
of a household are scarcely entitled in com-

[Column 3]
mon parlance to more than their board and
clothes, and dare not presume to any extra
privileges, and if their husband takes them
now and then to a theatre, or concert makes
them feel they have had a favor conferred up-
on them, for which they should be most grate-
ful. Many women lie awake at night in fear
and trembling when they are compelled to
ask the husband for money, for even ordinary
comforts; Mrs. Sara J. Andrews Spencer said
at the Woman's Congress in Cleveland last
year, that once in Washington she was listen-
ing to a lecture upon this subject and the 
speaker made the daring assertion that of all
the women there, "not one of them had
twenty-five cents to spend as she pleased with-
out asking somebody for it; "Upon this," said
Mrs. S. "all the old maids and widows clapped
their hands upon their pockets, but the mar-
ried women who were "supported," hung
their heads in silence. They knew it was too
true."
							THYRA.
	S. L. City, May 11, 1878.


WOMEN'S SPHERE.

	As I said Betsey Bobbet is awful opposed
to wimmin's having any right only the 
right to get married. She holds on to that
right as tight as any single woman I ever
see, which makes it hard and wearyin' on
the single men round here. For take the 
men that are the most opposed to wimmin's
havin' a right, and talk the most about its
bein' her duty to cling to man like a vine
to a tree, they don't want Betsey to cling
to them, they won't let her cling to them.
For when they would be goin' on about
how wicked it was for wimmen to vote—
and it was her only spear to marry, says I
to 'em, which had you rather do, let Betsey
Bobbet cling to you or let her vote? and
they would every one of 'em quail before
that question. They would drop their heads
before my keen grey eyes, and move off
the subject.
	But Betsey don't get discourajed. Every
Time I see her, she says in a hopeful wish-
ful tone, "That the deepest men of minds
in the country agree with her in thinking
that it is wimmin's duty to marry and not to
vote. And then she talks a sight about the
retiring modesty and dignity of the fair
sect, and how shameful and revoltin' it
would be to see wimmin throwin' them
away, and boldly and unblushin'ly talkin'
about law and justice. Why to hear Betsey
Bobbet talk about wimmin's throwin' their
modesty away, you would think if ever
they went to the political pole, they would
have to take their dignity and modesty and
throw them against the pole, and go with-
out any, all the rest of their lives.
	Now I don't believe in such stuff as that,
I think a woman can be bold and unwoman-
ly in other things besides going with a 
thick veil over her face, and a brass mount-
ed parasol, once a year, and gently and
quietly dropping a vote for a Christian
president, or a religious or noble minded
pathmaster.—My Opinion's and Betsey
Bobbet's.—English Woman's Review.


It is repo[-]ted that ex-Queen Isabella is
about to make London her residence.

	WHAT letters of the alphabet are most
valuable to a man in business? N. R. G.
(energy).

	AN intelligent German thus expressed
his preference for a quack doctor—"I
vouldn't call him iv mine cat vas dead."


190		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SKETCH OF MRS. HAYES.

	The Presidential election of November
1876, so bitterly contested, ended in a man-
ner remarkable as unexpected for the wo-
men of the United States; for it gave to the
nation a President's wife. This statement
does not imply that worthy women have
not in recent presidential terms, shared the
honors of the Executive Mansion at Wash-
ington, good wives, and estimable mothers,
but Mrs. Hayes during the year of her oc-
cupancy of the White House has added to
these womanly characteristics, a grace and
power which has made the President's
wife an honored reality before the nation.
	To those who have felt the charm of her
presence to those who know by experience
the genuineness of her professions, and the 
purity of her friendship, it is quite unnec-
essary to inquire concerning the early in-
fluences which developed this rich fruitage
of womanly character. To the greater
throng, however, who study her solely from
afar, there can be no such hesitancy, and for
them this brief sketch of her life, may be
both instructive and helpful.
	Lucy Ware Webb was born of honored
ancestry and her life from early childhood
was spent in the state of Ohio.
	Her father, a physician, died while she
was still an infant, but a mother, such as is
vouchsafed to but few daughters, was long
spared to bless the infant child.
	This widowed mother had two other
children, sons, and for their sakes, she
early removed to Delaware, Ohio, where
was located the Ohio Wesleyan University.
In this institution the boys were entered
for a full university course. Mrs. Webb
was independent as to fortune, and relig-
iously devoted her time and attention to
the care of her three children. Lucy was,
at the period of the removal to Delaware,
ten years of age. Her early education was
ordered with care by this wise mother,
she herself selecting her private instructors,
and at length, obtaining for her the privi-
lege of recitation from the professors.
	It was one of these identical college pro-
fessors, who so long ago inaugurated with a
hearty good-will the co-education of Lucy
Webb with her brothers, who on the night
of December 30th, 1877, ratified with sol-
emn religious service, the renewed vows
entered upon by the President and Mrs.
Hayes on the silver anniversary of their
wedding. Twenty-five years before in hap-
py remembrance of this university episode
in the bride's early girlhood, the professor
had been called to perform the ceremony,
and now again in Washington he was re-
called to assist in the thanksgiving of her-
self and husband over an accomplished
quarter of a century of wedded life. When
the daughter was about fifteen years of age
the sons having graduated at Delaware, and
both being about to enter upon the study
of medicine in Cincinnati, the devoted
mother removed thither also, having the
additional reason for her change of resi-
dence in the desire to place Lucy in the
Wesleyan Female College located in that
city. She was promptly entered there, and
without hindrance or interruption, but
blessed and helped beyond computation by
her mother's guardianship, she spent three
consecutive years in the prosecution of her
studies, and graduated with honor in June,
1850.
	It is a fact fraught with significance that
at this time when the question of the high-
er education of women occupies the atten-
tion of the wisest educators and legislators
in the land—the nation may be said to be

[Column 2]
engaged in honoring a woman who is a 
graduate of the first chartered college for
the education of woman in the United
States.
	This title of college was conferred upon
this institution in the charter granted by
the Legislature of Ohio, February 24, 1846.
The curriculum of study was extended,
and the several college classes were care-
fully graded. Mathematics and the class-
ics were rigidly and faithfully taught, and
the graduates of the institution in the ear-
lier years of its history will to day stand
well the test if compared as to their colle-
giate training with the graduates of the
older colleges for young men.
	To Lucy Webb and her associates those
years of college life, were not careless,
songful years, but-toilful, satisfying ones
nevertheless. The secret of the existence
of this college for women so far in advance,
as to years, of the times, is to be found in
the consecration of another life, whose im-
press Mrs. Hayes' character bears in a strik-
ing manner. The life referred to was that
of President Wilber—Rev. P. B. Wilber,
D. D.—who for thirteen years (or from the
inception of the Wesleyan College, until
one June day in 1859, when he fell insensi-
ble at his post), was its energetic and de-
voted president.
	President Wilber, whose memory Mrs.
Hayes in common with the 243 Alumnae
who had graduated before his death, de-
lights to honor, was a remarkable man. As
an educator and inspirer of young women,
those qualified to judge, esteemed him
without a peer. In the professor's chair,
giving didactic instruction he took high
rank, but from the president's desk in the
college chapel he exerted his lasting influ-
ence. There he eliminated from woman's 
life all that was frivolous, all that was un-
worthy, and there morning after morning,
year by year he exalted the holiest and pur-
est ideals until life grew so solemn that
young hearts drew back and feared to live,
if living was so fraught with responsibility
and accountability.
	Measured in this crucial test of daily in-
trospection, Lucy Webb was not found
wanting. From childhood a christian she
drew her help from the Divine fountain of
wisdom, and went forth from college halls
to assume the duties of womanhood, well
disciplined, and, as the sequel has proven,
thoroughly equipped for the work which
has fallen to her lot.
	While she was yet a member of President
Wilber's family, a rising young lawyer,
used "to open the big iron gate of the Wes-
leyan Female College on Vine Street, pretty
regularly every Friday evening" (reception
evening for the college girls) that he might
greet the bashful undergraduate who was
destined to be his wife.
	Two years later, or in 1852, R. B. Hayes
and Lucy W. Webb were married in Cin-
cinnati. Into the privacy of a home such as
theirs the world may not enter. Suffice it,
that it was a household of rare happiness.
The good mother rested from her cares in
the daughter's home, and enjoyed its peace
for a number of years, until from its bosom
she was "called to go up higher."
	Seven children were born, five of whom
still live. Intertwined among these years
came the war of the rebellion, calling Gen-
eral Hayes to the field of battle, where his
wife courageously and devotedly attended
him.
	The limits of an article such as this can-
not embrace details where each incident
seems replete with interest. Mrs. Hayes'
present record is before the whole people.

[Column 3]
They have read attentively, and that they
approve, is shown by the hearty commend-
ation bestowed on every hand.
	Scarcely less than her husband is she at
present a power in our national life, with
this difference, however, that Mrs. Hayes'
constituency recognizes no party lines. The
womanly womanliness which in home life
apportions "letters to the older boys, and
dolls and pettings to the little ones"—in
public life a cordial greeting to all who seek
her presence, reserving her brightest
smiles for those who in circumstances of
trial or temptation struggle towards the 
right, which in social life sets an example
touching the great moral and religious
questions of the day, which the feeblest as
well as the strongest among lookers on may
follow,—this womanliness thus displayed
commands the respect of people of every
section, name and party.
			—Prof. RACHEL L. BODLEY.
	"Woman's Words."


﻿UTAH COUNTY SILK MEETING.

	AMERICAN FORK MEETING HOUSE,
						April 2nd, 1878.

	Meeting opened in usual order; minutes
read, etc. A report of a meeting of the
Executive Board was read which presented
several questions for consideration; first, the
necessity of petitioning the County Court
for an appropriation for the furtherance of
the silk business. Elder Graves spoke on
the subject and motioned that we apply for
fifty dollars, seconded by Mrs. Hindley;
Bishop L. E. Harrington also made some
appropriate remarks on the subject, approv-
ing of the motion. Elder H. Cluff followed
with some interesting remarks encouraging
to silk-raisers, felt assured that the County
Court would do all in their power for the
furtherance of the enterprise, but was also
in favor that if the Court refused to aid us,
that we raise fifty or one hundred dollars
by subscription offering to donate ten dol-
lars himself. Made an amendment that we
apply for one hundred instead of fifty dol-
lars, which was seconded by Bishop Har-
rington, and carried unanimously. The
next question before the meeting was
whether the sisters of the Relief and
Young Ladies Societies are members of the
Silk Association, by virtue of their mem-
bership in these Associations, or must they
be enrolled. Elder Graves considered they
are already members through the call of
President Brigham Young. Motioned by
Bishop Harrington that the Ladies of the
Relief and Y. L. I. Associations are all
members of the Silk Association; carried.
Some other items of business were trans-
acted; after which Mrs. Zina D. Young ad-
dressed the meeting; spoke very interest-
ingly on the raising and manufacturing of
the silk. Referred to the mission given to
the sisters by President Brigham Young.
Spoke of the duties of mothers to their
children, and the necessity of furnishing
employment and clothing to them and also
to ourselves. Told the sisters not to get
discouraged by failures, but to "try again;"
related some of her experience in the silk
business and encouraged the sisters to keep
on persevering until they make it a suc-
cess. Spoke of Celestial Marriage as a di-
vine principle, and calculated to purify and
elevate the saints of God, said many things
that were cheering and profitable and full of
the spirit of the Gospel. Urged the sisters
to plant cuttings and put in seed of the
mulberry, and persevere in the work ob-
taining a little knowledge here and a little


there. We have no time to spare in none
sense or frivolity, but let us be of one heart
and one mind, and seek to do all the good
we can while we live upon the earth, that
when our time comes to go, we shall have
nothing to fear, but all will be peace. Let
us seek each other's interest and welfare by
wearing the clothes made by our own
hands, thus showing our faith by our works.
We know that we are in advance of the
women of the world, and they know that
we are superior to them in many respects.
	Let us speak well of each other, and pray
for each other, and bear each other's bur-
dens. We take with us throughout eter-
nity the improvement we make in our
minds. There is nothing that gives us the
same satisfaction as heavenly things; we
have no sorrow only for sin, and there is in
the gospel a healing balm for every wound.
	The reports of the sisters from the var-
ious settlements were interesting and satis-
factory, all manifesting their willingness
and anxiety to do all in their power for the
furtherance of silk culture, also bore faith-
ful testimonies to the principles of life and 
salvation. Altogether the meeting was
both pleasing and profitable. The spirit of
the Lord prevailed and all felt benefitted
and blest in coming together.
	Mrs. Young announced that Miss M. A.
Rockwood would take pupils to learn reel-
ing and twisting of silk, for $5,00 each.
	On motion of Mrs. Hindley the meeting
adjourned until July next.
		MRS. MARY HINDLEY, Pres't.
		MRS. EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		191


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
				THOREAU.*

	Thoreau's life was in many respects a
strange one. If his life were a strange
one, was it an exception to what life
in general is? It was and it was not. In
this strange and mysterious consciousness
called life, the potent and all pervading fact
of it is that it is. Thoreau's life was an ex-
ception to the common experience in so
much that he steered its course out of the
ordinary; and he betook himself to the
woods and their lakes "not that he loved
man less, but that he loved nature more."
He absented himself from man and his oc-
cupations that he might know him better,
and not because he loved not man and his
ways.
	In the universe man stands alone; he
may find in others a sympathy of ideas and
feelings, and yet he must gaze upon his fel-
low man as a part of an incomprehensible uni
verse; the universe of himself and his mind;
the thought suggests itself to him, am I a
part of the universe, or is the universe a
part of me? A question unknown and un-
knowable. This is what Thoreau must have
thought and felt when he retired to Wal-
den.
	He went here; as he himself says, to live
one of his lives, and that he might the
better meet and master the new lives to
come. He did not despise the revolutioniz-
ing improvements and advancements of
nineteenth century progress. The whistle
of the locomotive was to him not the death-
cry of beauty and of nature in its primi-
tiveness before man began his despoilation
of all for gain, but was rather the merry
laugh of a conscious being bringing comfort
to those who needed, loving friends and
faithful hands to those who mourned. In
this he is the opposite of Ruskin with his
Scotch lakes and Highland dells. Ruskin
sees in the advance of civilization an uni-
versal onslaught upon the beauty and har-

[Column 2]
mony of nature; not so Thoreau. Thor-
eau sees man expanding his nature, and de-
veloping an unknown and illimitable power
that is within him.
	Although he lived alone he was no her-
mit. Is he a hermit who communes with
the stars; sings with the birds; talks with
the beasts of the field, the fowls of the air,
and the fishes of the sea? No; to him all
nature and nature's is a companion, a loving
voice, a sympathizing soul. "Consider the
lilies of the field, they toil not, neither do
they spin, and yet I say unto you that even
Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed
like one of these." None ever more fully
realized the truth and beauty of this pas-
sage than Thoreau. He had at Walden
what he would have found in human soci-
ety,—companions as God made them and
not as society fashioned them. Here at
Walden his life was simple and philosophic
in the extreme; his bean field supplied
the place of the cabbage patch of
Cincinnatus. Indeed we deem this
portion of his life most poetical and 
was not that of a melancholic and misan-
thrope. Well has he earned the appellation
of "poet-naturalist." He was a poet after
the model of Sidney and Mill. All that
we can say of his life during these years of
solitude is that it was such as might have
been the envy of the angels.
	His ideas of government were preemi-
nently republican; and yet he greatly de-
precated the evils of republican institutions.
His ideal of a society would have been to
have had a primitive equality, a society
like that of the Village of Grand Pre,
where "the richest were poor, and the poor-
est lived in abundance." Certainly this is
an ideal that is most desirable, but too Uto-
pian for actual realization. Man wants no
equality unless it betters his condition.
They will cry equality who have nothing to
lose, everything to gain. Observation
teaches us that there is only one society
and one country where is absolute equality
—that society is the dead, that country the
grave.
	Mr. Pago has done a service to the mem-
ory of Thoreau, though his book is not all
we could have wished. We think he has
refuted, and fully, the assertion of Mr. Al-
ger, that Thorean was an egotist and self-
praiser. Thoreau only found within him-
self a centre from which all his ideas radi-
ated, and which returned again to that cen-
tre. Man's knowledge of mankind will al-
ways be and only be commensurate with
the knowledge of his personal self.
	Thoreau sleeps in his own beloved Con-
cord, where he was laid by distinguished
and loving friends. May we some day vis-
it this birth-place and home of so much
American genius.
	We hope some day that we shall be fav-
ored with a life and the letters of Thoreau.
							A. L. F.
	*	Thoreau: His Life and Aims, a study,
by H. A. Page.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY QUARTERLY CON-
			FERENCE.

	We had the pleasure of attending the Con-
ference held by the sisters of Weber County,
in Ogden at the Tabernacle, on Thursday, May
2nd, commencing at 10 o'clock, a. m., and 2
o'clock; p. m. The congregation was very
large, the weather was fine, and all things
combined to render the meetings very satisfac-
tory. President Peery and others of the local
authorities of that Stake of Zion were present,
also Elder Erastus Snow of the Quorum of the
Apostles. The complete organization of the

[Column 2]
Relief Society of that county was effected by
electing Mrs. Sarah Herricks an[-] Mrs. Hattie
Brown Counselors to Mrs. Jane S. Richards,
Mrs. A. M. Frodsham, Secretary, and Mrs.
Josephine West Corresponding Secretary.
Quarterly reports from all the branches of the
Relief Society in Weber County were read,
which showed that since the last Quarterly
Conference, there had been disbursed to the
poor $170.13, donated to the Temple, $119.99,
total amount in sundries $290 12, total amount
on hand in property, $1,247.26. The meeting
was conducted by President Jane S. Richards.
After the reports were read and the conference
business transacted, Elder Erastus Snow ad-
dressed the sisters upon the important duties
and responsibilities resting upon the women of
Israel. Exhorted them to be mindful of the
poor, the sick and the aged, to minister to
them in a loving and tender manner; to search
out the poor in their respective districts and be
careful that none were left to suffer. His in-
structions were excellent and he blessed the
sisters for their praiseworthy efforts in assist-
ing to build up Zion. In the afternoon Mrs.
Zina D. Young was the first speaker. Mrs.
Young spoke of seri-culture, of what had been
done, and future prospects; entreated the sis-
ters to use their utmost influence to make a
permanent start of the silk raising. She spoke
impressively upon the subject of women
physicians, the great need of having women
in the various settlements thoroughly quali-
fied to attend to the sick, especially women and
children. Said we have now in Salt Lake City,
ladies who have graduated and are prepared to
teach others, they are women of God, and it is
such women who should minister among the
sick. She said many other excellent things.
Miss Snow spoke eloquently upon the mission
of women in the Latter days and of the power
given to the saints and the advantages they
engoyed beyond the women of the world;
spoke of the neglect there had been in times
past in the spiritual cultivation of the young;
of the first organizations of the girls, and the
opposition they had to meet, of the great ben-
efits which had resulted already from these as-
sociations, of the influence for good the young
girls could exercise in the community. Ex-
horted the sisters to renewed diligence and
faithfulness, spoke upon Celestial Marriage,
the glorious anticipations of those who em-
braced and lived in it in purity and honored it;
of home industries; sericulture, straw-work and
other branches, of the storing of wheat by the
sisters, and the many subjects of the present
day which make up the sum of woman's work
of benevolence, improvement etc., in the
kingdom of God. President Peery expressed
his approbation with the movements of the sis-
ters and encouraged them to go on in well do-
ing. President Jane S. Richards made a few
appropriate remarks. Each society was then
called by Pres't P[-]ery's suggestion to be repre-
sented through its president or some other
officer. Mrs. Adeline Belknap, Hooper; Mrs.
Melissa Shirtliff, Harrisville; Mrs. Mary Farr,
Monnd's Fort; Mrs. C. M. Lund, Huntsville;
Mrs. Martha Bingham, Riverdale; Mrs. Mary
Fields; Slaterville; Mrs. Ann Bickington,
Lynne and Marriot; Mrs. Emily Shirtliff, Plain
City; each spoke a few words, bearing faithful
testimony to the Gospel. Mrs. Emily S. Rich-
ards, President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Ogden
City, made a few most excellent remarks ex-
pressing her great desire to be useful, and her
interest in the spiritual progress of the young;
she also spoke of the home industries and her
willingness to assist in their establishment.
	The conference was adjourned for three
months, until the first Thursday in August.
These Conferences of the Sisters are calculat-


ed to do a vast amount of good and awake a
more general interest in home-industries, as
well as in all benevolent works among the wo-
men of the Latter-day Saints.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE TEMPERANCE Reform and The Great
Reformers," is the title of a work on the sub-
ject of Temperance by Rev. W. H. Daniels M.
A., with an introduction by Rev. Theo. L.
Cuyler, D. D. The book is divided into nine
sections and gives an outline of all the great
temperance movements in America, with
sketches of the different societies organized to 
assist in the work and pictures of celebrated
workers, men and women. It is printed upon
fine tinted paper in clear readable type and
contains 600 pages. The book is sold by sub-
scrip[-]io[-] only; price $2,00 Mrs. Hewlings,
(widow of Rev. G. R. Hewlings lately deceas-
ed,) is agent in this Territory, and is now can-
vassing through this city. We recommend
her to the courtesy of our sisters, and wish her
success in her noble efforts for good. Her no-
ble heart is in the cause of Temperance and
Reform. She has lectured on that and other
subjects in some of the Eastern and Western
States, and has been an efficient practical
worker in the cause. Mrs. Hewlings has visit-
ed Inebriate Homes, Asylums and Prisons in
the interest of the Temperance Cause. This
lady is about to visit the southern settlements
of this Territory and intends canvassing in the
villages and towns upon the way. God speed
the cause of Temperance in this and other
lands and, and bless those who devote their
energies to so laudable a work.


[Column 1]
MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, south of Z. C. M. I. next
door to Williams & Young.
	Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between 1st
and 2d South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, diseases of
women and minor surgery.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and 
second South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics and diseases of 
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

MRS. M. L. MORRIS
Wishes to announce to her former patrons and others
that she
CLEANS, REMODELS AND DYES
STRAW AND TUSCAN HATS.
LEGHORN made a specialty. Ladies' own material
made up.
Residence—One block west and half a block
south of Court House.

SILKWORM EGGS FOR SALE
at the residence of
MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG,
State Road, 13th Ward.
Price $4.00 Per Ounce.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the late[-]t Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every-
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment,
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

[Column 2]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
					JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.	97 Kimball Block.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.
[Drawing of a machine]
	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
					GEO. A. LUKE & CO.,
						Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[--] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING,
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descr[-]ptions.
		MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH 
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
AT 
TEASDEL'S.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY,
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE AND ADDRESS—Main Street, over Dr.
Richards' Drug Store, nearly opposite Z.C.M.I.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Ja[-]es,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are p[-]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and 
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
		Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE,
			                       		Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in 
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will 
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake

