[Vol5 | November 1918 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Lo the Poor Rich Indian Frontispiece]
'"^ToV.T,-^    .'■^ 
'f^r"    ^)n>       w,-^,     -,-., 
LO,   THE  POOR,   RICH    INDIAN. 
Cartoon  by  Jack  Sears.

THE 
Relief  Society  Magazine 
Vol.  V.  NOVEMBER,   1918.  No.  11. 
Lo,  the  Poor,  Rich  Indian. 
HALF-BROTHER  TO  THE  JEW  AND  THE  EPHRAIMITE. 
The  Indian  races  in  the  United  States  still  occupy  a  somewhat 
anomalous  position.  When  the  white  settlers  first  appropriated 
their  lands  the  Indians  were  driven  west  and  southwest  and  de- 
spoiled ruthlessly.  Time  and  constant  agitation  by  broad-minded 
people  finally  set  in  operation  grovernment  machinery  which  made 
it  possible  for  these  simple  people,  who  were  comparatively  help- 
less before  their  invading"  conquerors,  to  be  attached  to  the  Gov- 
ernment as  a  political  and  social  appendage.  Superior  in  moral 
and  mental  equipment  to  the  imported  Africans  of  the  South,  they 
are  still  too  childlike  and  guileless  for  modern  social  exigencies. 
The  student  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  understands  perfectly 
the  nature  and  condition  of  these  people.  They  are  the  descend- 
ants of  two  rebellious  sons  of  Lehi.  Laman  and  Lemuel,  who  were 
cursed  with  a  dark  skin  because  of  their  disobedience.  They  have 
inherited  through  the  ages  Tiot  only  the  stern  virtues  of  truthful- 
ness, chastity  and  personal  loyalty  to  kindred  and  tribe,  but  also 
the  revengeful  and  bloodthirsty  faults  of  their  ancestors. 
All  of  the  promises  made  to  their  forefathers  in  the  sacred 
record  of  their  ancestors  upon  this  continent — promises  which 
were  reiterated  in  these  days  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  at 
various  times  and  under  varying  circumstances — point  to  a  period 
when  these  single-minded  and  virtuous  peoples  shall  be  prepared 
to  accept  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  enmass,  as  it  were.  In  that 
day  a  nation  shall  be  born,  com.paratively  speaking,  in  a  day.  Be- 
fore that  time  comes,  however,  these  people  require  a  wider  knowl- 
edge of  life,  a  fuller  understanding  of  civilization,  with  greater 
intellectual  and  civic  opportunities  than  their  restricted  traditions 
and  inherited  habits  could  afiford  them.  Hence,  the  Lord  has 
moved  upon  the  honest-minded  Indian  governmental  commissions 
and  agents  to  do  this  great  work.     This  article  gives  some  details

§04  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
thereof.  Will  the  Iixlian,  who  acquires  that  "fruit  from  the  tree 
of  knowledge,"  use  his  agency  in  choosing  the  good  rather  than 
the  evil?  Prophecy  has  said  he  will,  and  upon  that  prophecy 
Latter-day  Saints  rest  their  confident  hopes,  and  ofTer  up  their 
daily  prayers  in  behalf  of  their  Lamanite  friends. 
Inquiries  into  the  ancient  condition  of  this  race  are  answered 
by  present-day  historians.  We  quote  the  following  from  the 
British  Encyclopaedia  : 
"The  theory  that  the  American  Indians  were  the  'Lost  Ten 
Tribes  of  Israel'  has  not  yet  entirely  disappeared  from  ethnolog- 
ical literature.  Many  of  the  identities  and  resemblances  in  ideas,
