[Vol5 | November 1918 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]

Guide Lessons.
LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in December.
BOOK OF MORMON LESSON.
THE RULE OF KINGS ABOLISHED.
"And the people were desirous that Alma should be their king, for he was beloved by his people. "But he said unto them, Behold, it is not expedient that we should have a king; Ye shall not esteem one flesh above another; therefore I say unto you, that it is not expedient that ye should have a king" (Mosiah 23:6, 7).
Before the death of Mosiah he inquired of his people concerning his successor to the throne. The people replied that they wished Aaron his son to be their king, but Aaron had gone into the land of Nephi; therefore he could not be their king. Now Mosiah took advantage of this situation to instruct the people in relation to kings.
"Now I say unto you that because all men are not just, it is not expedient that ye should have a king or kings to rule over you" (Mosiah 29:16).
A paragraph of comparatively recent date, published in the Cleveland Plaindealer, headed "Napoleon Bonaparte in the Role of Prophet," represents Napoleon as saying that in one hundred years from the time he spoke the world would be "all slave or all free." Thus it would appear that this man, great in affairs of state even in his time, could see forces at work that would eventually enslave or free all men. The remarkable thing about Napoleon's prediction is that he should have measured his time so well; for the centenary of Waterloo found the world in the throes of a great struggle between autocracy and democracy, or, as Napoleon chose to state it, between freedom and slavery. In the midst of the confusion in which we have wrought, during the past four years, two things seem to be clear: first, that the triumph of Germany and her allies would mean the triumph of autocracy, which, as the Germans have chosen to administer it, is slavery of the very basest sort; second, that the triumph of

the Allies spells the salvation of democracy and of democratic institutions, which has received wonderful interpretation from the statesmen representing the Allies' cause.
It is the rule of kings, on whose power there is little check, that has wrought the havoc of today. It would seem from the record that has been made during the last decade, in kings toppling from their thrones, that bitter experience is teaching the world how true are the words of the Nephite prophet in relation to the possible and very probable misrule of kings. In a very short time we have a record of the abdication and assassination of Czar Nicholas II., of the Russians; Constantine of Greece; Nicholas Petrovich, the old king of Montenegro; King Ferdinand of Roumania; Peter, King of Servia, and the King of Hejaz, formerly chief of Mecca. These monarchs have all lost their thrones during the present war. Prior to the war, and within ten years, Manual II. of Portugal; Otto of Bavaria, Abdul Hamid II., Sultan of Turkey, and the Emperor of China have passed out of history as monarchs. In the great lesson Mosiah was seeking to teach his people in relation to the iniquity that too often characterizes the rule of monarchs, he said:
"For behold how much iniquity doth one wicked king cause to be committed, yea, and what great destruction!" (Mosiah 29:16.)
What more fitting text could be selected for any sermon at the present time? Does not the whole earth groan in terrible realization of the great destruction one wicked king has caused?
Yea, verily in a time of peace this man Mosiah, inspired of Almighty God, was teaching his people truths which our present generation is learning in blood and tears. Is it not truly startling that the words of an ancient prophet should have such a modern ring? Our most advanced statesmen have at last found the trail trodden by our ancient prophets; they are doing now what he did before them, battling for the liberties of all people or peoples, whether high or low, great or small.
Thus it has ever been, people who have accepted God's ordained and chosen leaders have always been able to boast of a civilization and of a philosophy of life and living far in advance of their age. Our pride mounts to the highest point, our satisfaction is all complete, when we record of these worthy people that they learned the lesson Mosiah sought to teach them:
"Therefore they relinquished their desire for a king, and became exceedingly anxious that every man should have an equal
chance throughout all the land; yea and every man expressed a willingness to answer for his own sins.
"Therefore, it came to pass that they assembled themselves together in bodies throughout the land, to cast in their voices concerning who should be their judges, to judge them according to the law which had been given them; and they were exceedingly rejoiced, because of the liberty which had been granted unto them.
"And it came to pass that they did appoint judges to rule over them; and they were exceedingly rejoiced, because of the liberty which had been granted unto them.
"And it came to pass that they did appoint judges to rule over them, or to judge them according to the law; and this they did throughout all the land.
"And it came to pass that Alma was appointed to be the first chief judge; he being also the high priest; his father having conferred the office upon him, and had given him the charge concerning all the affairs of the church.
"And now it came to pass that Alma did walk in the ways of the Lord, and he did keep his commandments; and there was continual peace throughout the land" (Mosiah 29:38, 39, 41, 42, 43).
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS.
1. Read with care the 23rd and 29th chapters of Mosiah.
2. Discuss reasons not dwelt upon in your lesson text, but found in Mosiah chapter 29, why kings are often a menace to a people.
3. What part have wicked kings played in the great struggle going on in Europe?
4. Name some kings who have toppled from their thrones in the past decade.
5. Name five or six countries whose cities and villages have been destroyed through the invasion of the Central Powers.
6. How did Mosiah characterize the rule of king Noah among the peoples of ancient America?
7. What form of government did Mosiah suggest to them?
8. What would be the advantage of the rule of judges over the rule of kings, in case both were wicked?
9. Name some other advantages not suggested by the government of wicked persons.
10. Which form of government do the governments of the United States of America and France most closely resemble, that of the rule of kings or of the judges?
11. Does Mosiah have anything to say about good kings? What?
12. In what class would you place King Albert of Belgium?