[Vol5 | November 1918 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Current Topics | Title: Current Topics James H. Anderson]

Current Topics. James H. Anderson.
The Utah Artillery, from Camp Kearney, Cal., landed in France in September.
Dora Kaplan, the girl who tried to assassinate the Bolsheviki premier, Nicolas Lenine, has been executed.
Famine in western Asia is producing dire results among the millions of population there.
Mutual Improvement work throughout the Church bids fair to receive considerable impetus the coming season.
Over 200,000 women in England are engaged in plowing, pitching hay, or other men's work in running farms there.
"War bread" in the United States now contains more wheat flour than formerly, there now being allowed 80 per cent.
Several millers from different parts of Utah, were punished in September for selling white wheat flour without substitutes.
Military men of experience in Europe are now expressing the belief that the present actual warfare there will come to an end in 1920.
In Great Britain in September, there were reported to be more than a million and a half women engaged in strictly men's occupations.
National prohibition from July 1, 1919, for the period of the war, was agreed on in September, by the national House of Representatives.
Fourth Liberty Loan subscriptions for $6,000,000,000 bonds in the United States began on September 28. Utah's proportion was $18,570,800.
The increase-in-taxation law, to raise needed revenues for the United States government next year, probably will be agreed upon in Congress in November.
CURRENT TOPICS. 643
Austria made of the entente allies, in September, a request to discuss terms of peace, but the request was refused, in the absence of some definite terms being offered.
Air raids on German towns in September are causing a very panicky feeling among the German civilians  the reverse of when British and French towns were being bombarded.
The Arabs, under the new king of Hejaz, the recently organized government of Arabia, are proving to be effective allies of Great Britain in the latter's Palestine campaign.
Two U. S. transport ships were sunk by submarines in September; on one, there were 55 lives lost, on another, of 2,800 men on board, all were rescued, and the ship beached.
Bolsheviki, or the Russian soldiers' and workmen's government, sustained severe defeats at the hands of Japanese, British and American forces in northern Siberia in September.
Secretary McAdoo ordered all railway employes to keep out of politics, and a general protest has been made on the ground that the order interferes with the right of American citizens.
Registration on September 12, of all men in the United States between the ages of 18 and 45, exclusive of those previously registered, gave a total of upwards of 13,000,000 men.
Utah men, according to reports of the movements of American troops, are to be found in France, Belgium, Italy, the Balkans, Palestine, and Siberia, on the fighting line with the entente allies.
Palestine was wholly removed from the control of the Gentile Turk, in a great British and French victory in the Holy Land in September. Read Luke 21:24; Doc. & Cov. 45:25, 28, 30.
Four persons were killed and thirty-five injured by the explosion of a bomb placed in the Federal building in Chicago, in September. Several arrests were made in connection with the outrage.
Ninety-seven I. W. W. members, convicted in Chicago of violating the government's anti-sedition law, were sentenced, in September, to terms of imprisonment ranging from ten days to twenty years.


Fred T. Dubois, once the manipulator of Idaho Democrats in a bitter fight against Utah, is now being accused by the Gem State Democrats of splitting their party there with the non-partisan league.
Bulgaria called for peace on the 25th of September, after being heavily defeated by the Serbian, British, French and Greek forces, and on the 30th an armistice was arranged on the terms of the Entente Allies.
Spanish influenza claimed over 50,000 victims up to the close of September, in 26 States of the Union, with a considerable percentage of deaths. Stringent measures are being adopted to check the pestilence.
Paris is no longer under bombardment by German long-range guns, but the famous city of Metz, the great German stronghold in Lorraine, was placed under bombardment in September, from shorter-range American guns.
Mesopotamia is practically cut off from Turkish rule by the British victories over the Turks in September, and a new government under the suzerainty of Great Britain and France probably will be established over Syria and Mesopotamia jointly.
The St. Mihiel salient, east of Verdun, France, was captured by the American army in September, and 20,000 Germans taken prisoners; because of its situation, this was one of the greatest single victories won by the entente allies in the present war.
Turkey's campaign in Palestine seems to be a success from one point of view, for in September the remnants of the Turkish forces, numbering over 50,000 troops, had themselves taken prisoner by the British, thus assuring that they will be well fed and cared for.
The greatest battle-line in the annals of war  275 miles in length  was marked out on September 25, in the successful advance of the British, French and American forces against the famed German Hindenburg line in France, which line is being obliterated as a fighting front.
Vigilantes is the title of an organization of American writers which is demanding that the United States announce definitely its war aims. Since one of these writers recently demanded for the Germans that "the whole brood should be extirpated, root and branch," the organization would seem to be a class of extremists of which the I. W. W. are the other end.