[Vol5 | November 1918 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]
Guide  Lessons. 
LESSON  I. 
Theology  and  Testimony. 
First  Week  in  December. 
BOOK  OF  MORMON  LESSON. 
THE  RULE     OF   KINGS  ABOLISHED. 
"And  the  people  were  desirous  that  Ahna  should  be  their 
king-,  for  he  was  beloved  by  his  people. 
"But  he  said  unto  them.  Behold,  it  is  not  expedient  that  we 
should  have  a  king :  Ye  shall  not  esteem  one  flesh  above  another : 
therefore  I  say  unto  you,  that  it  is  not  expedient  that  ye  should 
have  a  king"  (Mosiah  23  :6,  7) . 
Before  the  death  of  Mosiah  he  inquired  of  his  people  con- 
cerning his  successor  to  the  throne.  The  people  replied  that  they 
wished  Aaron  his  son  to  be  their  king,  but  Aaron  had  gone  into 
the  land  of  Nephi :  therefore  he  could  not  be  their  king.  Now 
Mosiah  took  advantage  of  this  situation  to  instruct  the  people 
in  relation  to  kings. 
"NoAv  I  say  unto  you  that  because  all  men  are  not  just,  it  is 
not  expedient  that  ve  should  have  a  king  or  kings  to  rule  over 
you"  (Mosiah  29:16V 
A  paragraph  of  comparatively  recent  date,  published  in  the 
Cleveland  Plaindealer,  headed  "Napoleon  Bonaparte  in  the  Role 
of  Prophet,"  represents  Napoleon  as  saying  that  in  one  hundred 
years  from  the  time  he  spoke  the  world  would  be  "all  slave  or  all 
free." 
Thus  it  would  appear  that  this  man.  great  in  affairs  of  state 
even  in  his  time,  could  see  forces  at  work  that  would  eventually 
enslave  or  free  all  men.  The  remarkable  thing  about  Napoleon's 
prediction  is  that  he  should  have  measured  his  time  so  well ;  for 
the  centenary  of  Waterloo  found  the  world  in  the  throes  of  a  great 
struggle  between  autocracy  and  democracy,  or,  as  Napoleon  chose 
to  state  it,  between  freedom  and  slavery. 
In  the  midst  of  the  confusion  in  Avhich  we  have  wrought, 
during  the  past  four  years,  two  things  seem  to  be  clear:  first,  that 
the  triumph  of  Germany  and  her  allies  would  mean  the  triumph 
of  autocracy,  which,  as  the  Germans  have  chosen  to  administer 
it,  is  slavery  of  the  very  basest  sort ;  second,  that  the  triumph  of