Jes' keep on a-strivin' an' hope for the best; There's only one method of meetin' life's test; Don't give up the ship an' retire in dismay; 'Cause hammers are thrown when you'd like a bouquet.

This world would be tiresome, we'd all get the blues, If all the folks in it held just the same views; So finish your work, show the best of your skill, Some people won't like it, but other folks will. ?Exchange.

Literature (Third Week in December ) LIFE AND LITERATURE THe Roman VIEW OF LIFE "To conquer beyond right is to perish.??Agamemnon.

One of the great stories Man has written in the "Book of Literature" is the biography of "The Youth of Society." The book is a book of heroes?men who made the world of.

Yesterday a social foundation for the world of today, men who built cities that still stand as world capitals, men who made laws that are incorporated in the laws that govern us today.

The story of "The Youth of Society" was enacted during the sovereign sway of the Romans as the governor of the world.

The Roman World The great historian of Rome, Gibbon, looked upon Rome as "the bridge between the past and the present,?the central lake in which all streams of ancient history lose themselves and out of which all the streams of modern history flow." History records the fact that about 1200 B. C. A highly cultivated non-Aryan people, the Etruscans, established themselves in the south of the peninsula.

Rome, on the Tiber, became the center of the life of the people of the south.

The Etruscans, masters of such matters as roadbuilding and military organization, were gradually conquered by the Romans.

Conquest after conquest followed until the Roman world included northern Africa, Greece, Gaul, Britain, Egypt, Asia Minor, and Palestine.

From tribal unit to a kingdom, from a kingdom to a republic, the master of the civilized world, Rome developed before 31 B. C. The close of the Republic and the beginning of the Empire marked Rome in the supremacy of her power.

To achieve power and greatness was a national impulse of the Romans.

Julius Caesar, the greatest Roman of all, wrote his own greatness and that of his nations thus: "I came, I saw, I conquered." Virgil (70-19 B. C.) The great epic poet, of the "Aeneid," told the story of the fortunes of a remnant of the conquered Trojans led by Aeneas as they sought a new home in Italy.

Virgil wrote: "Let others melt and mould the breathing bronze To forms more fair,?aye!

Out of marble bring Features that live; causes well; Or trace with pointed wand the cycled heaven, And hail the constellations as they rise; But thou, O Roman, learn with sovereign sway To rule the nations.

Thy great art shall be To keep the world in lasting peace to spare The humbled foe, and crush to earth the proud." The Roman's destiny was to be the governor of the world.

They built a civilization based upon organization, military and political.

The Roman was a man of remarkable masculine vigor and intensely practical nature.

He was not influenced by sentiment, being conservative in all things.

His desire for knowledge was limited to that which was useful, with little interest in the novel or speculative.

His practical nature built amphitheatres, aqueducts, and roads; his power of organization developed a system of government.

The religion of the Romans was as practical as the rest of his life, through ritual, prayer, guilds, and augers he sought to gain the favor of his gods.

"Rome was indeed the religion of the Romans." The Roman must be admired for the moral qualities, manliness, sincerity, loyalty, which grew out of the severity of military discipline, the basis of their national life.

It is to the great credit of the Roman, that he dignified and sanctified family ties and domestic virtues.

The place of woman in the home and in the state was exalted far beyond that accorded to her by the Greeks.

In the quest for power and dominion the Roman learned the science of government.

The most significant outgrowth of Roman way of life was not in terms of individual perfection, but of making "leaders" and "rulers" of men.

The Roman Empire rose on the wings of conquest, organization, and leadership: the Roman Empire fell in the conflict of sensuality and spirituality.

"The decline and fall of the Roman Empire is the greatest, perhaps, and the most awful scene in the history of mankind." ? The Literature of Rome In the literature of a nation one finds the life and ideals of the nation.

It was the ambition of the Romans to create a literature as great as Greek literature.

This was an impossibility as Greek life and ideals were not Roman life and ideals.

Greek life in its simplicity was conducive to individual development; to them "Man" was the measure of all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE things.

Roman life was not free and individualistic; it was complex and dominated by the national quest for power.

In public life, therefore, the orator was a more honored figure than the poet, and the military leader more than the philosopher.

The Coliseum, with its gladiatorial combats, was first in the social life of the Romans; then came the circus with its race tracks; the theatre with its comedy and pantomime came third.

The great masters of Roman literature were Virgil, Horace, Caesar, and Cicero.

Virgil, the epic poet, sang of "Ilion falling, Rome arising" in the "Aeneid." The poem was a deliberate piece of work fashioned upon the works of Homer.

Tennyson in his tribute to Virgil calls him wielder of the "stateliest measure ever molded by the lips of man." A scholar, idealist, and dreamer, his work was the product of design rather than that of an exuberant singer of hero lays.

The few lines translated from one of his simple poems in praise of the life of the farmer illustrates the perfection of Virgil's work: "Easy quiet, a secure retreat, A harmless life that knows not how to cheat, With homebred plenty, the rich owner bless; And rural pleasures crown his happiness.

Unvexed with quarrels, undisturbed with noise, The country king his peaceful realm enjoys?

Cool grots, and living lakes, the flowery pride Of meads, and streams that through the valley glide, And shady groves that easy sleep invite, And, after toilsome days, a sweet repose at night." LESSON DEPARTMENT Horace (65-8 B. C.), the most distinguished poet after Virgil, gave to the world the immortal line "I shall not wholly die." He loved his country and was enthusiastic over its promise, yet his passion for beauty of expression was Greek in its nature.

Tender and delicate of disposition with a pleasant ego, he was the father of a family of lovable literary characters, Chaucer, Cervantes, Montaigne, Izaak Walton, Oliver Goldsmith, Charles Lamb, Washington Irving, Henry David Thoreau.

It has been said that "Horace's Sabine farm, Chaucer's Tabard Inn, Irving's ivy-mantled sunnyside and Thoreau's hut by Walden pond, are the homesteads of literature, where the latchstring is always out and the hearth always bright and the voices of cheerfulness and tolerance are saying, 'Welcome, my brother!'" The following selection is from the poem "To Maecenas:" "Happy the man?and happy he alone,? He, who can call today his own: He who, secure within, can say 'Tomorrow, do thy worst, for I have lived today; Be fair, or foul, or rain, or shine, The joys I have possessed, in spite of Fate, are mine, Not Heaven itself upon the Past has power, But what has been, has been, and I have had my hour.' * * * "For me, secure from fortune's blows, Secure of what I cannot lose, In my small pinnace I can sail, Contemning all the blustering roar: And running with a merry gale, With friendly stars my safety seek Within some little winding creek, And see the storm ashore." Cicero, the Latin master of prose, by sheer genius and pains established Latin speech as a universal language.

His speeches and essays, as well as being great prose classics, reveal a statesman and a cultured gentleman.

From the essay "Old Age": "The short period of life is long enough for living well and honorably; and if you should advance further, you need no more grieve than farmers do when the loveliness of spring-time hath passed, that summer and autumn have come.

For spring represents the time of youth, and gives promise of the future fruits; the remaining seasons are intended for plucking and gathering in those fruits?The nearer I approach to death, I seem, as it were, to be getting sight of land, and at length, after a long voyage, to be just coming into harbor." Julius Caesar was a man of letters as well as a soldier.

His "Commentaries on the Gallic War" is written in model Latin.

Though the great day of Latin Literature passed with the Roman Empire and but little was revived after the Dark Ages, the great Latin language has never died because it is the world-wide language of the Catholic Church.

The Literature of Roman Life To present the best of Roman life and thought for appreciation, we shall consider Plutarch's "Lives" and Shakespeare's "Julius Caesar." Plutarch (46-120 A. D.), the biographer of antiquity, was the bond between the two great civilizations, the Greeks and the Romans.

Born a Greek but intensely interested in Roman life, he could look on the past glory of his own nation and the grandeur of the conqueror, Rome.

Plutarch wrote "Lives" not history.

He chose fifty heroes from the two great civilizations and in their lives found the leadership that made for greatness.

His method was so unique that for eighteen hundred years he has received the admiration of men of letters and men of action.

Emerson spoke of Plutarch thus: "Read Plutarch and the world is a proud place peopled with men of positive qualities, with heroes, and demi-gods standing around us, who will not let us sleep.?He is the elixir of Greece and Rome, the laureate of the ancient world." Another admirer reminds us, "To open our Shakespeare alongside of Plutarch and find the solid bronze Plutarch left behind him was some fifteen centuries later transmitted into gold by Shakespeare, and this alchemy of his we know as the plays "Julius Caesar," "Antony and Cleopatra," and "Coriolanus." The finest portrayal is Antony, the greatest character is Julius Caesar, the choicest life is Marcus Brutus, and the best wisdom is 'It is not God that injures thee but thyself.'" Shakespeare's great classical trilogy has for its hero, Rome.

To do this Shakespeare followed Plutarch studiously, and truthfully presented Roman life and character.

The plays are not merely chronicles, out of the materials of Plutarch and the "stuff of life," the genius of Shakespeare wove a true tapestry of Roman life.

Julius Caesar?Shakespeare The great drama "Julius Caesar" presents with fidelity the Roman empire at the pinnacle of its greatness.

From the time it was written in 1601 to the present, it has been one of Shakespeare's best liked plays.

The play follows closely the account given by Plutarch of the assassination of Julius Caesar, the great military idol of the common people, but the object of hatred of the nobility.

The scenes of the drama can be vividly pictured and the characters are clearly drawn.

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Caesar is pompous, "full of lofty airs." Cassius is crafty, keen, and unprincipled,?a man who flatters men to win them.

Brutus, a noble Roman, "who loves the name of honor more than he fears death." Casca is false and shallow.

Mark Antony, the gifted orator, loves Caesar but uses him for his own ends.

Calphurnia, weak and colorless, tries to rule her husband by threats and entreaties.

Portia, womanly and charming, seeks to deserve her husband's confidence by fortitude and understanding.

In the play the dramatic skill of Shakespeare is at its best, his poetry at its richest, and the portrayal of human nature at its fullest.

The play opens in Rome.

The common people are out on the streets making holiday to celebrate the return of their great hero, Julius Caesar.

The Roman tribunes, dispatch the commoners to their homes, because they have violated the law of Rome by coming out on the streets on a laboring day without the signs of their trades.

The tribunes remind them that not long since they came on the streets to honor great Pompey, and now they honor his conqueror.

The commoners leave as commanded, and the tribunes disrobe the public statues of their decorations.

The procession of Caesar and his followers passes down the street on the way to the games that are to celebrate the Feast of the Lupercal.

Cassius and Brutus do not follow Caesar to the games.

The Stoic Brutus is not "gamesome" as Antony, who is going to participate in the games.

Cassius endeavors to gain the support of Brutus in a conspiracy against Caesar, first by flattery, second by a recital of his own virtues, and third by a denunciation of Caesar.

Brutus is too noble to suspect the baseness of Cassius.

A shout of applause is heard from the games, and the troubled Brutus reveals his thoughts: LESSON DEPARTMENT "I do fear, the people choose Caesar for their king." In answer, Cassius reveals his jealousy of Caesar.

Both men have started life as common soldiers, yet in spite of physical handicaps Caesar has encompassed Rome "like a Colossus" and Cassius is but an "underling." Again and again the shouts are heard from the games.

At length the procession returns from the games.

Caesar noting Brutus and Cassius together comments to Antony: "Yond Cassius has a lean and hungry look: He thinks too much: such men are dangerous. * * * He reads much: He is a great observer, and he looks Quite through the deeds of men: * * * Such men as he be never at heart's ease Whiles they behold a greater than themselves." As Casca passes Brutus stops him to inquire of the happenings at the games.

Casca in a racy manner reports that Antony had offered Caesar a crown three times and the applause was greater at each rejection.

Seeing that Brutus is greatly moved by the words of Casca, Cassius plans to convince Brutus of the need for action against Caesar by sending documents to him as if they came from several citizens.

Brutus receives the several letters and seeks the solitude of his orchard to think of their purport.

He decides that Caesar, the man, is not dangerous, but Caesar, the king, would be.

When the conspirators arrive in the garden, he assists in making the plans for Caesar's death.

Brutus will allow no oath to be taken by the conspirators: "Do not stain The even virtue of our enterprise, Nor the insuppressive mettle of our spirits, To think that of our cause or our performance Did need an oath." The conspirators plead for Antony's death also.

Brutus, the idealist, will not consent to become a murderer: "Let us be sacrificers, but not butchers, Caius. * * * We all stand up against the spirit of Caesar; And in the spirit of men there is no blood." Brutus has not been able to conceal his trouble from his wife, Portia.

Thinking that her husband's secrecy is due to lack of confidence, Portia plans to give her lord a test of her fortitude.

She inflicts upon herself a wound on the thigh to show that she was a woman, a woman worthy to be Cato's daughter, worthy to be Brutus's wife, worthy of her husband's counsel.

Brutus overwhelmed at the nobility of Portia, grants her a knowledge of his enterprise.

After a night of thunder and lightning and strange omens, Calphurnia prevails upon Caesar not to go to the senate.

Caesar sends to the priests for an augur of the day's promise, boasting: "Cowards die many times before their deaths; The valiant never taste of death but once.

It seems to me most strange that men should fear; Seeing that death, a necessary end, Will come when it will come." The message from the augurer was a foreboding of evil, so Caesar yields to his wife's entreaties.

The conspirators arrive to conduct Caesar to the senate.

Calphurnia's fears and the priest's warning fade into insignificance before the flattery of Decius as he suggests that a crown may be awaiting Caesar.

As they pass along the street to the Capitol, a soothsayer warns Caesar and suggests a way to escape his doom.

Events move rapidly as planned by the conspirators.

Caesar goes to the senate and proceeds with the business of the day.

Metullus Cimber presents a petition to Caesar for the release of his brother.

One by one the conspirators gather around to plead with Metullus.

Caesar is killed.

After some time a messenger comes to Brutus from Antony expressing friendliness and seeking an interview.

Antony comes in grief for his friend but bidding for the goodwill of the conspirators.

Antony is given permission to speak at Caesar's funeral against the advice of Cassius.

At the funeral of Caesar, Brutus delivers a speech showing the reason for Caesar's death.

The people accept the word of Brutus and choose him "to be Caesar." The speeches of Antony fire the people to indignation against the conspirators.

Brutus and Cassius are compelled to flee.

The innocent poet, Cinna, is torn to pieces by the angry mob because he had the same name as one of the conspirators.

With brands lighted at the funeral pyre of Caesar, the people fire the houses of the traitors.

The Roman army is divided, part joins the cause of Brutus and part joins Antony.

Eighteen months later Brutus and Cassius meet at Sardis to discuss a new plan of action as their campaign so far has been unsuccessful.

The two men begin by mutual faultfinding.

Brutus maintains a lofty position of honor over Cassius; bribes have been taken from the Sardians and military offices have been sold for gold to undeservers.

Cassius resents being checked and chastized like a bondman pleading that: "A friend RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE should bear a friend's infirmities." Cassius needed money to pay his soldiers.

Brutus calls for a bowl of wine in which to bury the unkindness.

With the pledge of reconciliation Brutus tells Cassius of the death of Portia.

The two generals plan for a great battle on the plains of Philippi.

That night the ghost of Caesar comes as if to mock their plans by promising to meet them at Philippi.

The opposing armies meet and a conference is held.

Antony rejects the proposals for peace.

Before the battle Brutus and Cassius part in a touching farewell.

Cassius leads a charge as the armies meet and is defeated.

He orders Pindarus to kill him with the same sword that killed Caesar rather than be taken prisoner and led in triumph through the streets of Rome.

Brutus rallies his forces to a second charge.

He is taken prisoner.

Antony orders that Brutus be treated kindly, but he dies by his own hand, noble even in death.

Antony commends the great character of Brutus: "This man the noblest Roman of them all: All the conspirators, save only he Did that they did in envy of great Caesar; He only, in general honest thought And common good to all, made one of them.

His life was gentle, and the elements So mixed in him, that Nature might stand up And say to all the world, 'This was a man!'" The drama "Coriolanus" is a tragedy of pride, the conflict of the plebeians and the patricians in Roman life.

Coriolanus was one of the great generals in the last war with the cruel Tarquins about 400 B. C. Later he brought about his own destruction at the hands of the people: LESSON DEPARTMENT "You speak of the people As if you were a god to punish, not A man of their infirmity." The drama "Antony and Cleopatra" is a tragedy of sense, of voluptuous delight, the great classical trilogy of Shakespeare with Rome as the hero, presents a vivid picture of Man and his efforts to organize his Social World. * * * * * Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature.

Chapters 10-13.? Macy. 2. Julius Caesar.?Shakespeare. 3. Lives.?Plutarch. 4, Poems.?Horace.

B. Program: 1. Music. 2. Discussion.

A. The Roman World.

B. The Roman View of Life. 3. Review.

A. "Julius Caesar." 4, Reading.

A. Selections from the poems of Horace.

C. Method: It is possible to gain from the selections considered in this lesson an understanding of the influence of the Roman genius for organization.

Do not forget to enjoy the portrayal of character by Shakespeare.

A Mother's Prayer By Hattie M. Stephenson Those tiny hands that cup my chin, And rouse me from my drowsing hour, They are so pink and soft and warm, They thrill me with their hidden power.

His eyes meet mine with happiness, Angelic smiles spread round his lips, "He's mine, all mine," my soul cries out; I tingle to my fingertips.

And yet, I seem to hear a voice Say, "Not all yours, dear mother heart; I trust him to your earthly care, Oh, nobly, humbly, take your part." I shake the slumber from my soul, I see as God would have me see, "Oh, help me, Father, rear my son And bring him back in purity.

Oh, let these dimpled feet I clasp Stray not far from the path of truth, Oh, let this mother's prayers e'er guide, That he may be a manly youth.

I do not ask for thornless trails With flowers growing on each side; For freedom from our earthly cares And cushioned limousines to ride.

I do not ask my son to go Through this life's span and know no pain, For only by the rise from loss Will he e'er reach the higher plain.

But let my son e'er walk the path That work and prayer and faith lead to; May chastity bedeck his brow To glorify his life in you."