RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Social Service (Fourth Week in December) THE SLEEP OF CHILDREN LESSON XII As indicated in the material of this lesson, sleep is one of those rhythmic activities on which health is dependent.

Practically all social and recreational programs are affected by the habits of sleep that are formed by children.

The effect in early childhood is largely on the elders who care for the children.

In youth the adjustment is one for the young person himself.

This lesson deals with the problem of guidance in the formation of proper sleep habits.

The aim is to help class members understand the factors they should control in educating children in proper sleep habits.

Suggestions for Procedure: A good method will be to have the class members make individual reports on each topic given for study in the reading guide and in the supplementary material.

The class leader can guide the discussion and present at the end a carefully prepared summary of ideas to use in the home.

Study Guide for Class Members.

Habits, pp. 15-19. This chapter is an application of the suggestions on habit formation to a specific habit.

Note the following elements in determining the correct habit to form.

A. Amount of sleep.

B. Time for sleep ?especially the caution about naps.

C. Clothing and undressing.

D. Activity preceding going to sleep.

E. Conditions furnished at going to sleep time that are to be made uniform, time of day, etc. F. Conditions that should vary? such as bed, clothing, room, bedding, etc. G. Mental attitude about sleep? all three points are very important.

Supplementary Material: The material given below is for the purpose of reinforcing by repetition the simple suggestions given in the study material.

It represents the conclusions from modern child study and clinical experiences with parents and children.

In the weight of authority some ideas are fixed.

Holt & Howland: The Diseases of Infancy and Childhood, p. 6. (Appleton?1922. ) (Quoted from Thom, "Every Day Problems of the Every Day Child," p. 73.) "Training in proper habits of sleep should be started at birth.

From the outset an infant should be accustomed to being put into his crib while awake and to go to sleep of his own accord.

Rocking and all other habits of this sort are unnecessary and even harmful.

An infant should not be allowed to sleep on the breast of the nurse nor with the nipple of the bottle in his mouth.

Other devices for putting infants to sleep, such as allowing the child to suck a rubber nipple or anything else, are positively injurious.

If such means of inducing sleep are resorted to, the infant soon acquires the habit of not sleeping without them.

"The hours for going to bed and arising, as well as nap periods, should be firmly and unalterably fixed.

LESSON DEPARTMENT There is a great temptation for parents to keep the child up a little later, or put him to bed a little earlier to suit their own convenience, Or perhaps they wish to display the child to friends who are coming for a seven o'clock dinner, " Thom, 73. "One thing more should be added.

The child should have the idea firmly fixed in his mind that the sleeping period is the time when he must be alone, that companionship and distraction, such as books and games, are not compatible with sleep, and these things cannot be gained by wailing.

The mother who complains that her child does not go to sleep for hours after he goes to bed will invariably tell you also of his demands upon her attention?a glass of water, the closing of a window, 'I want to go to the toilet,' 'I have something to tell you,' ?anything that will attract her notice.

Often this attitude of the child toward the mother at night is quite in contrast to his bold adventurous spirit during the day." Thom, 74-75, "A short period of absolute rest from any sort of physical activity, or mental stimulation, just before the child goes to bed, is of value in helping an active child to find sleep soon after retiring.

Playing about until the last moment before retiring, or listening to some exciting story or the radio, is often the cause of many restless hours in bed.

The thrilling story in the living room often becomes terrifying to the imaginative child once he finds himself in the quiet and dark of the bed chamber." Thom, 76. "If it is necessary for the parents to leave the house after the child has gone to bed, it is much wiser, to tell him honestly that this is to happen.

It may be a bit more difficult for the parents the first time, but in the long run it will be more easy for all concerned." Thom, 77. "There is a great difference in the inherent sensitivity that children exhibit toward noise and light, heat and cold, indiscretions in diet, emotional situations, and in fact, any stimuli both internal or external, affecting the nervous system.

The average child, however, properly trained in regular hours of sleeping and eating, whose eliminating processes are functioning normally, and whose general regime of living is not dependent on the whims of adults, need have no protection thrown around his sleeping quarters.

In fact, it is not difficult for the child to develop the habit that permits him to sleep on in spite of noise, light, or other factors.

The ability to short-circuit, so to speak, these stimuli, which ordinarily arrest one's attention, when either awake or asleep, is brought about by experiences often repeated over and over again.

It is comparable to the negative adaptation that the stenographer makes, working in a busy office, where the typewriters are constantly clicking.

She soon learns to carry on quite unaware of their presence.

"It is, therefore, not well to protect the child from everything that might possibly disturb his sleep; in fact, it is much wiser, during his early years, for him to learn to sleep under what might be called adverse conditions.

The undue precautions so many parents take in order to secure what they consider ideal conditions for the child may well be the very factor that makes him unduly sensitive in later life." 77-78. "The healthy child should go to sleep within twenty or thirty minutes after going to bed and should get up immediately after awaking.

If it should be that the child habitually awakes before the adults of the household arise, some form of amusement should be provided, as it is during these restless periods that mischief often begins." 9. "Dreams and talking or walking in sleep are generally the continuations of the daytime experiences or the expression of subdued fears or denied desires.

Boys will live on during a ball game.

Children will continue the chatter of a party.

Non-athletic boys will perform the denied activities.

These are not necessary symptoms of mental disease except as they point to possible fears or desires.

"These various activities during sleep are usually of short duration and, if properly managed by parents, need not cause any alarm whatsoever.

If, however, the attitude of parents drives the child to further repressions, they may be prolonged indefinitely." Thom, 82. "Baby's sleep may be disturbed in the following ways.

He may be excited by being played with or tossed about before going to bed.

He may be too warm, too cold, or wet.

The room may be too hot, too cold, too light, too noisy, or improperly ventilated.

Trips to the movies, shopping, evening visiting, or being kept up to see guests all tend to make the baby wakeful and fretful, and the family should from the first have rigid rules against such practices.

"A well baby will sleep.

If he is restless or fretful, it may be because he is very tired.

Try to discover what may have tired him.

Never give the baby soothing syrups, drops or paregoric, many babies die because of these drugs." (Goodspeed & Johnson: Care and Training of Children?Lippincott, 1929, p. 63.) "Giving the child nipples or anything else to suck, being rocked to sleep, or having someone lie down with him, only help to build the habit of not being able to go to sleep unless these conditions are present." G. & J., p. 149. Thom,. Deprivation to the child.

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Prepare His Mind for Going to Bed.?The child will not go to bed readily if he is emotionally aroused.

Any kind of excitement just before bedtime, such as strenuous play, too many visitors, or a trip to the movies is unwise.

He should understand that bedtime is quiet time and that he goes to bed for one purpose only and that is to sleep.

This prohibits all distractions.

No toys may be taken to bed.

No pillow fights or other excitement should be permitted.

"The adult dealing with the child at bedtime should speak of going to bed as a pleasant thing to do and should make his voice carry a note of finality, so that the child does not form the habit of teasing to stay up a little longer.

After all his physical needs such as a glass of water, and a trip to the bathroom are taken care of, make the last good-night a final one and a firm one.

He should understand from the beginning that after good-night is said, it will be useless to try to get attention and ward off sleep by asking for a drink of water; jumping out of bed, singing or talking, asking to go to the toilet or 'just wanting to tell you something.'" G. & J., pp. 149-150. Arlitt: Psychology of Infancy and Early Childhood, McGraw Hill Book Company.

"It must be kept in mind in dealing with children of all ages that whereas the adult often enjoys sleep because it is an escape, children find in sleep a cutting off of a series of interesting activities and contacts.

What is an escape to the adult is a deprivation to the child.

Making the process of going to bed and settling down to sleep more satisfactory than that of staying awake, is, therefore, one of the serious problems