[Vol20 | October 1933 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field]
Notes from the Field Northwestern States Mission: HE manner in which one of our missions celebrates Annual Day is most graphically told in the following account by Mrs. Pearl C. Sloan, President of the Mission Relief Societies: "Our Branch Presidents have kindly given the Relief Society a Sunday night nearest our Relief Society Anniversary, March 17th, for a program.

This gives an opportunity for presenting our work to our friends and also to members of the branch.

Most of our programs have brought in some phases of the work of the Relief Society and the opportunity it offers to its members, and also they have taken the opportunity of bringing in other speakers who could talk to them on topics of interest.

In Seattle, Mrs. Thomas Irving, President of the Federated Woman's Coterie Club of the University District, talked to the Relief Society sisters, upon, 'The Accomplishments of the Recently Closed Session of the State Legislature.' Mrs. Gertrude Hovland of the Ladies' Nordica Choral Society rendered two vocal solos.

This, with the excellent singing by the Seattle choir, made an interesting evening.

"On March 17th our Relief Societies also celebrated our anniversary by giving a free entertainment for the adult membership of the branches.

Many of our smaller groups gave a dinner or a luncheon, with a short play or an original program.

"In Klamath Falls, Oregon, the program was built around the Relief Society Magazine, with the desire to emphasize many of the activities contained therein.

An impersonator calling herself Miss 'Maga Zine' carried an enlarged copy of the March issue, introducing each number on the program, which consisted of a reading and a musical number by a quartette of 'singing fathers,' a talk 'Our Virtues?The Beatitudes,' also a playlet by the visiting teachers and another talk 'Service as We Know It,' a retold story from the literature lessons, a talk 'Practical Value of the Doctrine and Covenants' and a short dramatization, 'The Spirit of Relief.

Society.' "Butte, Montana, dramatized the work of the different departments.

Subjects chosen were: Theology? 'The Restoration of the Priesthood;' Literary?'Balcony Scene from Romeo and Juliet;'? Social Service? 'Class Work in the Clinic;' Visiting Teachers?'The Right and Wrong Way for Teachers to Present the Teachers' Topic.' These numbers were interspersed with musical and specialty numbers.

"In Bynum, Montana, each class leader directed a one-act play representing their particular work.

A prize of a year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine was given for the best play.

"In Tacoma, Washington, a poem composed by one of the sisters told very cleverly of the purpose of the party, also of the value of membership in the Relief Society.

A play 'The Organization of the Relief Society, was given by the members, and another interesting feature was an old-fashioned album made by two of the sisters.

Past presidents were represented by six of the Relief Society sisters and as the leaves were opened they were introduced by the hostess, each one giving their own autobiography.

The hostess then gave a sketch of the life of our own loved President, Louise Y. Robison.

These with a number of appropriate mu- 612 sical selections made a very interesting program.

"Varied and original ideas in decorating with our Relief Society colors added to the pleasure of our celebrations, and in some of our Societies we were given excellent publicity by our newspapers." Another picture from the Mission is presented as follows: "I visited in Kelso, Washington, yesterday.

It was our social service meeting, the last one for the season, the lessons being given there by Sister Linda Fletcher, who has written a number of poems for the Magazine.

It isa standing joke that some of the sisters have buried their talents, but unlike the man in the Bible, they expect theirs to grow and produce results in the way of flowers and vegetables.
