BUSINESS depressions and panics may sweep the earth, causing people to feel that they are sorely afflicted.

But let us think for one moment: if the sun should cease to shine, the rains cease to fall, if the seasons each with their numerous blessings should cease to visit the earth, if all nature's gifts were suddenly lost to us?then indeed we should know real panic.

How good is God; how blessed is man.?Camille C. Nuffer.  Teachers' Topic THE JOY OF SERVICE Service is the key to true 'nappiness.

Man cannot exist alone, and his peace and happiness is dependent upon his fellowmen. 'Love of our fellowmen comes from a response to the finer, more beautiful, more spiritual in both nature and our fellows." "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." John 3:16. "For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's, the same shall save it." Mark 8:35. "If any man serve me, let him follow me; and where I am, there shall also my servant be; if.

Any man serve me, him will my Father honor." John 12:26, References: Luke 6:30-31; D. C. 42:29-31; D. C. 18:10-17; Mosiah 2 19-24; Matt. 7:12. The great work of our Father is service in behalf of his children.

For their happiness he builds worlds and labors to bring to pass their happiness.

Discuss Moses 1:31-39. Our Savior set us the perfect example in service, for he took upon himself our infirmities and sins that we, through obedience, might receive salvation.

We do not know the excruciating agony he endured that we might live.

D, C. 19:15-19. Jesus taught that to give our lives for others was the way to achieve blessings and our greatest joy and happiness.

"From his life we derive the principle that love should be given to all mankind and help to those who need it.

Every hour, every day, we are to be nelpers of the Father in assisting Him to lift every soul into greater happiness, greater self realization, and in turn to greater service." Selfishness is the basis of most of the trouble of today.

If man would keep the second great commandment, love his neighbor as himself, and truly serve him, he would overcome many of the enemies of life.

If we are interested in our neighbors' welfare, selfishness disappears, and we have no time nor inclination for such destructive forces as hatred, jealousy, envyings, self pity, etc. Discuss now these attitudes thwart soul growth and destroy happiness.

"It is what we give rather than what we receive, which develops the soul." How is this true?

Read thoughtfully and analyze the fourth section of the Doctrine and Covenants.