Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in December) ATTITUDE TOWARD CiviL Law LESSON XII 1. Mutual Agreements.

The attitude of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints toward civil law and the officers that enforce it is well set forth in the twelfth Article of Faith, as follows: "We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law." The principles contained in this statement form the very basis upon which society endures.

Indeed, if people were not willing to subscribe to the principles upon which general agreement exists society could no longer be maintained and modern life would retrograde into barbarism. 2. As it is, however, civilized peoples have agreed to live together in peace and harmony, to the end that life, property, and the pursuit of happiness are vouchsafed to all.

Ina composite group, however, such as is present in any community or nation, there are always some who are not 'willing to comply with the decisions of the masses, and who, accordingly, produce trouble and discord.

Before these are considered, nowever, let us reemphasize the fact that society itself is an outgrowth of the mutual agreements of those who constitute it, and that the degree of its success is a direct reflection of the fidelity in which these agreements are respected.

An ideal society would be one in which just and equitable laws exist, honored and sustained by every member. 3. Individuals who live in society, and thus partake of its privileges and protection, are not free to do as they choose unless their acts do not interfere with or invade the rights of others.

This fact is basic to both the proper operation and perpetuation of law and order.

Uninformed and misgttided people, often with a distorted and exaggerated opinion of their individual freedom, not infrequently assume the attitude that no restrictions should be placed upon their personal acts or desires, in other words that they are free to do as they choose.

The fact is that membership in society restricts one's freedom solely to those acts that do not violate the rights of others.

In other words, membership itself is tantamount to a pledge and agreement to live within the restrictions agreed upon by society as a whole.

Violation of the law constitutes a direct viola-. Tion of this pledge and agreement. 4. A means is provided in all good governments by which undesirable laws can be repealed and desirable ones enacted.

So long as a law remains in force, however, the individual is bound to respect it and obey its provisions.

The individual must never resort to subterfuge or violence; and order must prevail.

The good citizen is not an obstructionist; neither does he retard the progress of justice.

The law offers him almost unlimited protection and he is duty bound to obey its mandates. 5. Disregard for Law.

There are those, however, who, regardless of the benefits and protection that they LESSON DEPARTMENT -derive from society, are not only willing but seek opportunity to violate its provisions.

These are criminals, culpable of malicious intent.

These are they who are opposed to law and order and wno seek to overthrow the ideals for which society stands.

They are the enemies of civilization.

Society has provided means for their punishment, varying in intensity with the nature of the offence.

They are a liability to the community in which they exist and a hindrance to human progress. 6. Then there are large numbers of well-meaning citizens who unwittingly or otherwise violate many of the more or less minor provisions of the law.

Among these are many of those who violate traffic regulations and who are otherwise easily tempted to do wrong, especially when they are not likely to be apprehended.

The injury to society brought about by tnese people is doubtless far greater than is commonly believed, more particularly because of the vast numbers thus involved. 7. There is of course no justification for disregard for law, even in the slightest degree, no more, indeed, than there is for disregard for natural law.

The Latter-day Saints should be most careful in their observance of law; even the slightest infractions should be avoided.

The Latter-day Saints are enjoined to give full allegiance to the countries in which they live.

The word of the Lord leaves no room for doubt concetning this matter.

Listen: 'Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land.

Wherefore, be subject to the powers tnat be, until He reigns whose right it is to reign, and subdues all enemies under his feet." (D. And C, 58:21, 22.) 8. Modern Problems.

It is generally believed that disregard for law 617 is more widespread at present than perhaps ever before, the causes for which are thought to be many.

Uprisings incident to the casting off of old regimes in various countries have doubtless had their influence, even among peoples not directly affected by them.

Then, too, the underworld is always ready to take advantage of unrest and indecision.

In America, because of the incomplete success of the prohibition movement, the underworld is determined that the widespread use of alcoholic liquors shall be legalized and that its long list of accompanying evils shall return.

Unfortunately an orgy of drinking and attendant debauchery appears to be near at hand.

Nor is the propagandist counting the cost to human happiness.

The liquor interests are determined to sell their products, even if the young people of the nation are sacrificed thereby.

Broken homes, infidelity, moral turpitude, underfed children, poverty, and a legion of other ills are, to the liquor vendor, wholly unimportant in comparison with his desire for gold.

Civilization has never had a more subversive or dangerous foe.

The booming of enemy cannons at our very doors would not constitute a menace equal to that of the present liquor problem.

And yet many of the nation's excellent citizens are actually assisting it to succeed.

It does not appear to be widely understood that the liquor vendor's interests are basic in the problem and that he is determined to succeed irrespective of the injury wrought to those who consume his wares. 9. The thinking people of the nation should arise as a unit against this perfidious and seductive enemy.

A call to arms for righteousness should be sounded far and near.

Doubtless more educational work must be done.

People, especially young people, should be more fully 618 taught concerning the evils of liquor.

The moral tenor of the country in this respect must be raised, and raised greatly.

Much of the breakdown of America's prohibition movement can be traced directly to the fact that the people generally were not highly enough trained to appreciate it.

The education of the masses must be intensified in the future.

Good laws must be enacted and weak ones strengthened.

Men who will enforce the laws must be elected to office, and violators of the law must be made to pay the penalty for disobedience.

The enemy, liquor, must not succeed; his depravity knows no limitations. 10. The Word of the Lord.

No doubt snould exist in the mind of any Latter-day Saint concerning his duty toward the constitutional law of the land, as witness the following word of the Lord: "I say unto you concerning the laws of the land, it is my will that my people should observe to do all the things whatsoever I command them.

And that law of the land which is constitutional, supporting that principle of freedom in maintaining rights and privileges, belongs to all mankind, and is justifiable before me.

Therefore, I, the Lord, justify you, and your brethren of my church, in befriending that law which is the constitutional law of the land; and as pertaining to law of man, whatsoever is more or less than this cometh of evil.

I, the Lord God, make you free, therefore ye are free indeed; and the law also maketh you free.

Nevertheless, when the wicked rule the people mourn.

Wherefore, honest men and wise men should be sought for diligently, and good men and wise men ye should observe to uphold; otherwise whatsoever is less than these cometh of evil." (D. And C. 98: 4-10.) 11. The foregoing statement is unusually RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE comprehensive, especially.

Considering its brevity.

It sets forth tnat the principle of freedom as proclaimed by the American constitution is the common heritage of all mankind.

It justifies the members of the Church in befriending all laws in harmony with this principle, and it brands as evil all man-made regulations which are disharmonious with it.

The statement declares that those who obey the law are free, and then hastens to warn that when the wicked rule the people mourn.

It concludes with the admonition that wise and good men should be selected as rulers of the people.

It is interesting to observe that if the principles and instruction contained in this statement were embodied in all political procedure many of the world's ills would almost immediately disappear. 12. The Constitution of the United States.

More than two thousand years before the time of Columbus, the Lord gave a revelation in which it was pointed out that a man (Columbus) would discover America, that he would be followed by many others, and that the original inhabitants (Indians) would be scattered before them.

In consequence of their humility, however, the newcomers prospered greatly in the land, and the power of God was upon tnem.

Ata later time warfare broke out between them and their mother country (England), but they were delivered by the goodness of God.

Following this, they prospered greatly in the land. (See I Nephi 13:12- 20.) It would be difficult, indeed, to epitomize more briefly and clearly the early history of the American people. 13. It is a matter of common knowledge that for several years following the revolutionary war with Great Britain the American people passed through by far the most critical period of their history.

For LESSON DEPARTMENT a time it appeared that even though the war had been won, the colonies would be unable to unite upon a general policy, and accordingly would be compelled to reunite with the country from which they had so recently gained their freedom.

At the close of nearly four years, nowever, the Federal Convention, consisting of fifty-five members, including George Washington, met at Philadelphia and in the incredibly short period of eighty-five working days framed the American constitution and prepared it for submission to thevarious states.

The document has been declared by students of history and political science as "the most wonderful work ever struck off at a given time by the brain and purpose of man." While a number of amendments have been made to its original provisions, yet the spirit of the constitution, as conceived by its framers, remains uncnanged. 14. The principle of self-determination, free agency, independence, freedom to do as one chooses, has ever been vouchsafed to the children of God.

Deity's attitude in this regard dates from before the foundations of the world.

Ina revelation to Joseph Smith, given December 16, 1833, the Lord declared that every man should be able to act in principle and doctrine according to the moral agency which had been given unto him, and that it is not right that any man should be in bondage one to another.

The American Constitution was established to safe- 619 guard this precious right.

Here are the words of the Lord: "For this purpose have I established the Constitution of this land, by the hands of wise men whom I raised up unto this very purpose, and redeemed the land by the shedding of blood." (D. And C. 101:80.) Little wonder, therefore, that the Latter-day Saints regard the American constitution as an inspired document! 15. The Latter-day Saints are thus inherently a law-abiding people.

They recognize the fact that in obedience lies safety and freedom, whereas disobedience leads only to sorrow and servitude.

Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. In what way does our membership in society (say, the United States or Great Britain) obligate us to obey its provisions? 2. Why is the lawbreaker a violator of his implied promises to society? 3. What do you think of the loyalty of a person who violates traffic law merely because an officer is not present to prevent him? 4. What can you do in your community to lessen the evil of liquor traffic? 5. What can you do to encourage the people of your community to elect honorable men to office? 6. How many of you have read the Constitution of the United States?

How can you encourage people to read it?