[Vol20 | October 1933 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Happy Mothers Marba C. Josephson]
(To be continued) Happy Mothers By Marba C. Josephson O be genuinely happy, mothers must learn how to play with their children. 'Play activity has its definite purpose, just as work has its end; each helps make the well-rounded social individual.

In play the training should be for cooperation and unity.

Play should teach good sportsmanship.

Most of us mothers lose out in the play time of our children and thus miss an excellent opportunity to develop family solidarity.

Too often we allow our children to think of us only as ogres for work.

We have Johnny bring up the coal; we have Mary scour out the basin and tub; we have James do the dusting.

But how many times do we call them together and say, "Let's pack a lunch and go gather some wild flowers?" The world around us is so full of wonder that we snould enjoy more of it.

Children are so refreshing that we should enjoy more of them.

Where there are children there can be no depression, for if we only open our eyes and hearts to them, they will banish any feeling of gloom.

We should take frequent walks with our children.

In our Rocky Mountain country, the wild flowers are abundant and beautiful.

Help the youngsters make a collection; if possible, naming each flower.

This year we experimented by pressing the flowers and then enclosing them in cellophane.

I am certain that they will keep much better during the year when eager but careless little fingers turn over the pages.

This wildflower gathering may expand from year to year by the study of manuals and by classifying and reclassifying.

It's surprising how fascinating this particular activity becomes.

Following it as a hobby gives plenty of opportunity for hikes and sun-tans, to say nothing of the chance it affords for gaining of valuable information.

Insect and bird life are worth studying.

Try to learn the characteristics of the birds and recognize their songs.

Interest the children in watching them without harming or disturbing them.

If little ones learn never to injure birds or other animals an invaluable lesson will be taugnt.
