[WomansExponent | Vol3 | 1874 | January | Issue: 16 | Title: WOMAN'S RECORD | Author: Unknown]

		﻿WOMAN'S RECORD
	CHARLOTTE Cushman has cancelled her
San Francisco engagement.
	MISS Carrie Clark, daughter of Henry S.
Clark, lately deceased, has been appointed
express agent in Northampton, Mass.
	THE Empress of Prussia wore in Paris a
crimson velvet cloak lined with rare Russian
sable, and worth twenty thousand dollars.
	Miss Wilson recently realized $6,400 by a
performance in St. Petersburg for the bene-
fit of some families who were made, home-
less by a fire.
	MRS. Annie Mixsell of Orange, N. J., has
accepted an engagement as soprano in Dr.
Conkling's choir, New York, at a salary of
$1,000 per annum.
	MRS. Elizabeth Haldeman, mother of W.
N. Haldeman, one of the proprietors of the
Courier-Journal, died at Louisville, Dec. 27,
in her 84th year.
	THE real name of "Susan Coolidge," a
pleasant Eastern writer for children's peru-
sal, is Miss Sarah C. Woolsey, and she is a
niece of ex-President Woolsey, of Yale Col-
lege.
	MRS. Rousby, a young woman even more
beautiful and more given to wardrobes and
jewelry than Mrs, Scott-Sidons or Adelaide
Neilson, has arrived from England to star it
on the American stage.
	MISS Nancy Monell, of St. Johns, gradua-
ted at a medical institute in New York, and
is now Superintendent of a large hospital at
Lucknow, India, at a salary of $5,000 per
year, and all expenses paid.
	MISS Lipscombe has just been appointed
by the English Registrar-General to the office
of Registrar in one of the sub-districts at
Worcester. This is the first time this office
has been given to a woman in England.
	MRS. Senator Schurz, a woman who is
better informed, and, therefore, more en-
thusiastic on this subject than almost any
person in this country, ardently desires to
be enfranchised. She believes it criminal
in men to refuse it.

[Column 2]
	MRS. D. Chamberlain, an old resident of
Westborough, Mass., was one of the original
band of missionaries that went to the Hawa-
iian Islands fifty-five years ago, when the in-
habitants were savages. Mrs. Chamberlain
is in her eighty-eighth year, and she retains
her mental faculties to a remarkable degree.
She speaks the Hawaiian tongue fluently.
An inivtation to visit Westborough has been
extended to the King Kalakaua to meet this
aged lady.
	MARIE Antoinette was the originator of
the "claque" at Paris. On the occasion of the
first performance of "Alceste," by Gluck,
who was highly esteemed by the queen,
Marie Antoinette, in order to secure the suc-
cess of the opera, distributed a large num-
ber of courtiers all over the theater among
the public, with the order to applaud in pro-
per places. The managers of the opera
house found this mode of securing success
very practicable, and organized a duly paid
band of claques for the purpose.	MISS Jennie Worthington of New Orleans,
principal of the High School, protested ear-
nestly against the expulsion of her colored
scholars. She declared her inability to face
her scholars and do so mean a thing, saying,
"How can I order that bright-eyed little fel-
low never to return to this school?" pointing
to an intelligent looking boy of twelve years
of age, who was one of her smartest and
best scholars. The superintendent relieved
her of the embarrassment. The little fel-
low, with tears in his eyes, begged to re-
main. Again and again he walked back to
his seat, hugged his books tightly, and wept
as if his little heart would break.


