Diet for the Nursing Mother By Jean Cox, State Supervisor of Home Economics Education Two things are necessary for normal, satisfactory lives. The first is to be born with a good structure, that is, a body that is a good machine. The second is to take care of the human machine. The nursing mother has a dual responsibility in caring for her own body so that her resistance will not be unduly lowered or that tissues will not be sacrificed for the health of the child. A jaded, tired mother is a poor investment for her family. Her other responsibility is to supply food, right in quality and amount for the child for whose welfare she is directly responsible. When the child is subjected to a diet faulty in quality or amount injury is done to its tissues. A diet unsatisfactory in quality or quantity reacts unfavorably on the general wellbeing of both mother and child. In order that health of both may be maintained, necessary food principles must be contained in the normal diet. Most homemakers are acquainted with the food classification which includes such terms as carbohydrates which is the class name for sugars, cellulose and starches, fats which include oils, cream, butter and fats, and proteins which is the class name for meats, cheese, fish, and milk. In addition to these, however, there are other food elements, quite as important for health, upon which increased attention has been given during recent years. These elements are found largely in the skeletal parts of the body, help regulate body processes, and are called ash constituents. As most of the ash constituents are supplied in the average diet without special attention, consideration will be given only to the two most likely to be wanting in the average diet of the nursing mother. These very essential ash constituents are calcium and phosphorous and are very necessary for the growth of bones and teeth. According to recent studies in experimental feeding of animals the kind of foods determine the quality of the teeth, McCollum, Mendell and others who are carrying on this experimental work say they can produce good or bad teeth according to the varying composition of the foods used in their feeding tests. Diets low in calcium and phosphorous and not containing the vitamines necessary will produce small bones and teeth of poor quality. Another factor of considerable importance for physical wellbeing of the nursing mother and child is equanimity of mind. Lack of worry and avoidance of nervous tension are essential for good appetite, perfect digestion, and proper elimination of both mother and babe. It is physiologically wrong for either to try to digest 84 foods when the stomach is not ready. Worry, fatigue or fear inhibit the flow of digestive juices. In the case of the nursing mother the milk supply is made irregular by any of the above factors. Working beyond one's strength decreases the amount of milk secreted. The cross baby is a natural result when the mother has been too tired because of extra physical exertion or emotional excitement. Too great fatigue on the part of the mother may cause the death of the babe. Too much nervous excitement for the baby will cause indigestion. It should be understood also that when digestion is delayed by any of the causes listed above that something happens to the food in the stomach. The digestive tract is both warm and moist, making it an ideal place for the development of undesirable bacteria which act on the available food supply and cause various forms of discomfort if not serious illness. The following story will emphasize the importance of peace of mind in relation to good digestion. A woman went to her doctor's office to have further study made of her case. The doctor gave her the usual test meal of a roll and cup of weak tea. When he was handing them to her the roll dropped off the cup and fell on the office carpet. This did not serve as an appetizer but the woman ate the roll and drank the tea. Some time later the stomach pump was used and contents of her stomach were analyzed to determine how much digestion had taken place. The doctor was much surprised to find that no. Process of digestion whatever had been carried on. The aversion to the dirty roll had inhibited the flow of digestive juices. In addition to emphasis on mental serenity there are several other factors worthy of consideration in discussing possible increase of mothers' milk. From experiments carried on in a maternity hospital it was found that a mixture of fresh vegetables increased the milk supply. This, if it is true, contradicts some of the old beliefs that green foods caused colic. There is considerable evidence at the present time also that there is little danger in an average consumption of salads and leafy vegetables. Another food notion that has been more or less prevalent among nursing mothers is the theory that drinking beer increases milk supply. This belief is unfounded by scientific study. An average consumption of milk, however, is considered valuable for the nursing mother from the standpoint of ash vitamines and energy values. The question of necessary increase in the mother's food supply is dependent upon her own activity as well as upon the weight of the child. The food requirement of the baby depends upon several factors. The most usual method of figuring the baby's requirement is in terms of calories per pound. The tiny baby needs 45 calories per pound up to three months of age, while the 86 family physician, but merely to increase her understanding of general principles of nutrition. One of the big questions in feeding the nursing mother is to keep a healthy digestive tract during this period when, as the saying is, ''she must eat for two." She should avoid foods that she knows are difficult to digest, although it is not wise, to anticipate indigestion. Neither worry nor fear are conducive to a healthy intestinal tract, so special effort should be made to enjoy meal time. Careful mastication is also important so that the food will be divided into small particles and thus more quickly acted upon by the digestive juices. While an excess of bulky food is to be avoided, because it does not contribute sufficiently to the energy requirement, some roughage is necessary to stimulate the peristaltic movement of the intestines. Recent studies of constipation indicate that the softer cellulose of vegetables and fruits are more effective than the harsher brans of cereals. The argument in favor of the softer cellulose is that there is a greater tendency to ferment and the gas formed hastens the movement through the intestinal tract. Care should also be taken to eat fruit every day for the organic acid contained in it. _ Another factor of great importance in maintaining health of. The nursing mother is to insure the supply of the ash constituent. Perhaps the importance of this may be indicated when it is known that the calcium produced in the milk of a dairy cow in one year equals by weight half of the calcium in the animal's bones. The problem of the dairyman is to furnish food sufficiently high in calcium and phosphorous to meet the needs for milk production. The problem of the nursing mother is to eat foods high in these important ash constituents in order to protect her own bones and teeth. Foods relatively high in calcium and phosphorous are almonds, asparagus, grain, beans, buttermilk, brussels, spinach, cabbage, cauliflower, cheese, chocolate, celery, currants, dandelions, egg yolks, figs, lettuce, milk, molasses, oranges, strawberries, and turnip tops. The other ash constituent which needs attention in the average diet is iron, but if the diet is generous in the phosphorous and calcium content the iron demand will be largely met. One other factor that needs consideration in order that the mother's health may be further safeguarded is careful attention to the vitamine content of the foods. These are sometimes called the protective foods. In general their use in the diet prevents mal-nutritional diseases, promotes growth, stimulates appetite and helps to insure individual well-being. As the chief sources of vitamines are found in milk and milk products, green leaf and root vegetables, and fresh fruits, further discussion is unnecessary at this time. DIET FOR NURSING MOTHER 87 Summarizing the nutritional principles indicated above, without detailed study for a balanced dietary, it has been found useful to see to it that at least as much is spent for vegetables and fruit as is spent for meat and fish and that as much is spent for milk and milk products as for all meats and fish. If this proportionate expenditure is lived up to, the welfare of the nursing mother will be fairly well assured.