LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in November) ELIZABETH Every community must frequently answer the question, "What shall we do with Elizabeth?" Our story today will not be entirely about the particular Elizabeth who was deprived of a home, but of all the Elizabeths and their brothers who have lost their own homes. This Elizabeth was placed in an institution for orphans. Her parents had both died of tuberculosis, and the children were placed among the interested relatives. Elizabeth had to be cared for in a hospital because of a tubercular hip, and later, she was sent to a home for orphans. She was in good health but retained a slight limp. For several years Elizabeth remained at the institution, attending public school, receiving good marks, observing all the rules of the institution, and was considered a fine, bright, obedient girl when she' graduated from high school. But Elizabeth was unhappy. In fact, she was often so distressed and moody that she contemplated taking her own life. She was sensitive, self-conscious, lonely and forlorn. The question had then to be asked again, 'What shall we do with Elizabeth?" The state had accepted its obligation and given the child every advantage for good physical and medical care, and provided excellent educational opportunities. But unquestionably, all this care had not made of Elizabeth a happy, normal, useful individual. Elizabeth's unhappiness was undoubtedly related to her social environment. She felt alone and abandoned and inferior. She felt that the large unknown world beyond the institution was too difficult to face. She preferred complete escape and obliteration. It is difficult to analyze what elements in normal child life and development are lacking in a well managed institution, There 
 is usually kindliness and personal interest. 'There is excellent physical care. There are opportunities for education and selfexpression. But there are certain experiences that a child in an institution loses that makes him feel apart and different from the rest of human-kind. He has little opportunity for deep feelings of affection, which are part of a normal life in a home of parents and brothers and sisters. He has no feeling of being a part of the community, as a child does, who has parents, brothers and sisters in the world of affairs—at work, school, college, clubs, etc. Perhaps the greatest feeling of insecurity that comes to a child in an institution is his own conception that he is 'different,' that for some unknown reason fate has marked him to play the role of an outcast. As with all generalizations, there are exceptions to these statements. Some children may spend years in an institution, find certain satisfactory outlets for their thwarted desires for a home and family affection, and later make a good adjustment in the community. Studies of children who have been reared in institutions, however, have raised serious questions about the advisability of placing orphans, delinquent and homeless children, in institutions, for long periods of time. To return to Elizabeth, the treatment proposed to relieve het from her unhappy state was to place her in a private home. In this closer relationship within a family group and with persons who were a part of a community, she lost the feeling that she was a queer, inferior sort of person. She was then given opportunity to earn part of her livelihood, which gave her confidence that she could later succeed in making her way in the world. It was also arranged for her to continue her school work, as her intellectual endowment justified the belief that a college course would be profitable for her. In the new environment, she gained a confidence in herself and a satisfaction in finding herself in her relationship to the community that she had never found in the sheltered environment of an institution. She progressed in school, she took new interest in her work, and she became cheerful and happy. She learnea to enjoy life because she was no longer oppressed with fears of the unknown world, and with her fear of her own inadequacy. It may be that her early physical disability and the slight limp she retained accentuated her feeling of insecurity. Any feeling of being inferior or different may be the cause of emotional distress, so the combination of a physical infirmity and the loneliness of an orphan's home proved more than she could endure. But with the new regime, and the satisfactory expression of her abilities, the slight physical handicap did not interfere with her adjustment. The new experiences which released her from her in- ] ferior feeling of being an institutional child also released her from the feeling that she was inferior because she was physically handicapped. The treatment for any feeling of inferiority is to find constructive expressions and outlets, that give the individual a satisfying experience of success and achievement. The chapter dealing with Elizabeth's difficulties raises many questions. One is the practical one of what is to be done with orphans and homeless children? Most states have provided institutions for homeless children and also training schools for - delinquents. If the authorities on child welfare are convinced that institutional life, because of its abnormal environment, does not develop the highest possibilities of the children placed in them, what alternatives are there? The first suggestion is that greater care should be taken in planning for children in their own homes. Often, if an attempt is made to keep an unstable home together by effort on the part of welfare agencies, the children have a better opportunity for normal development. The institutions for orphans are not housing orphans at all, but usually children of widows, deserted women, or children of broken homes. Effort should be made to have parents realize the advisability of keeping a home together, even if it means long treatment in development of parental responsibility or even financial assistance in the homes of widows or where the man of the family is ill or has failed to provide. Such care is less expensive than care in institutions and has possibilities of better results in making happy, useful citizens of both the parents and the children. When care outside the home is imperative, the institution should perhaps be used for a short time in order to study the child's health, mentality and attitudes and habits. If the child has no relatives who claim custody, an adoption into a suitable foster home might be made. The adoption should be legal, to protect both the child and the adopting parents, but should not be made legal until after a period of trial—perhaps of about a year. This principle should apply to infants, too, as the period of probation would give both the adopting parents and the agency placing the child an oportunity to determine if the arrangement should be permanent. But the majority of children in training schools and orphan's homes are not free for legal adoption. The new program for the care of these children is to find them suitable places to board,-— either free homes or homes that will accept children for a nominal fee. Care, of course, must be exercised so the older children are not taken because of the service they can give. Also the matter of a fee should not be the main reason that a child is accepted in a boarding home. Experience in many communities has shown that many pleas- - 
 ant, comfortable homes can be found with intelligent sympathetic parents, who find pleasure in the companionship and the progress of children placed in their care. Elizabeth was given new hope and courage in her pleasant boarding home. Many other children are now given this same opportunity to find a substitute for their own lost home in this manner. Such programs of child care are promoted and financed by private agencies, by the boards of orphan homes, and by state funds. In closing the discussion of the social problems of childhood, the author emphasizes the importance of a home environment for a child, and also the need of parents becoming aware of their significance in shaping the lives of their children. A parent's obligation does not end when he provides for the physical needs of his child. Parenthood entails an obligation to give the child an opportunity for the harmonious development of his personality. Reference: Challenge of Childhood, Dr. Ira S. Wile, Elizabeth, pages 284-294, Questions and Problems 1. Why was Elizabeth unhappy? 2. What treatment was proposed? 3. Why did her new environment change her attitudes? 4, Why should children be kept in their own homes if pos- 5. Under what circumstances should adoptions of children be made? 6. What is meant by boarding homes for children? 7. What are the advantages of boarding homes over institutions? 8. What are the provisions for boarding children in your community?